RENSHAW’S manuals. Dr. Druitt’s Surgeon’s Vade-Mecum. Sixth Edition, much improved. 200 Wood Engravings, heap. Price 12a. Gd. Dr Guy’s Hooper’s Physician’s Vade-Mecum. New Editkm, 1854, enlarged and improved. Fcap. Price 12s. 6d. Dr Knox’s Manual of Human Anatomy, Descriptive Practical, and General. 250 Wood Engravings, the Vessels coloured, reap. Price 12s. 6d. Dr. Churchill’s Manual of Midwifery. Second Edition, corrected and improved. 110 Wood Engravings. Fcap. Price 12s. 6d. Meade’s Manual for Apothecaries’ Hall. Second Edi- tion, corrected and improved. Fcap. Price 10s. 6 . Maleaiene’s Manual of Operative Surgery, translated by D® Brittan. Wood Engravings. Fcap. Price 12s. Gd. -nv Guv’s Principles of Porensic Medicine; aText- *Book to the Lectures at King’s College. Fcap. Price SchiU’s Outlines of Pathological Semeiology, trans- lated by Dr. Spillan. Fcap. Price 7s. 6d. Dr. Spillan’s Manual of Therapeutics, with Rules for prescribing. Fcap. Price 10s. 6d. Abernethy's Lectures on Anatomy and Surgery. Fcap. Price 6s. 6d. Sir Astley Cooper’s Lectures ou Surgery. Fcap. Price 7 s. Cazenave’s Manual of diseases of the Skin, trans- lated by Dr. Burgess. Fcap. Price 7s. ward’s outlines ot Humau Osteology. 3». cl.Sa Price 5s. s r zss£ ™ d Valentin’s Tent-Book of V& edited fr"»i the Tliird '’"’'““ “"Jpeec. 8VO. ctoth. H.D. 500 Figures on wood, coppe , Price 25s. niMiniled. Quarterly-Mil mSHAW’S PUBLICATIONS. THE MOST COMPLETE SYSTEM of SURGERY EVER PUBLISHED. 2 vols. 8vo. cloth, £3 0 0. Ciielius’ System of Surgery, translated from the German, and accompanied with additional Notes and Observations, by John F. South, late Professor of Surgery to the Royal College of Surgeons of England, and Surgeon to St. Thomas’ Hospital. °!S'neeJy is m,?st extens>ve and comprehensive, and should be patronized by the Profession. —Lancet. c<n,Plete systematic treatise now extant. Tlie descriptions of surgical diseases, and indeed the whole of the pathological department, are most valuable.”-Edinburgh Medical Journal. patiloIo'’,cal Medical Kml S',PPUeS “ dpsideratum lo"S wanted in the profession recommend this work as the best and most comprehensive system of modern surgery.” -British and Foreign Review. P SIMON’S PATHOLOGY. Grown 8tto. cloth, 7s. 6d. General Pathology, as conductve to the establishment of rational rfAn U 63 f°U DlaSnosis and Treatment of Disease By John Wn, F.B.S., one of the Surgeon, of St. Thorn,,’ b5- SSSSSSd^S1"" in Kol*l,““ H“> Colo’S- advantage!’^^dinbul^^on<A^ye5'o^^r^la^lV^lt^e^, a"d "'iU be perused " ith LonZl JSSreade'9 t0 perU3e work for themselves.”- ANDRAL’S CLINIQUE. 8vo. cloth, 2os. most excellent in tlie modern pnthologyUofSFrnncdS tWl'l° "‘sh '° ,<n°"' w,lat ^SS0111™ St0ck of auth^^^1^ “ We rCCOmm°nd Dr- Spillaa'* translation to our readers .’’-Lancet.A SYSTEM OF SURGERY, BY J. M. CHELIUS. translated from the german JOHN F. SOUTH. VOL. II.notice to booksellers and others. T1,« p* E,»—r f“ ““ >*»« baying in h„ „[o„g any of o a heavy penalty, which will Coloniea; in the latter all agents nent in Great Britain, Irelan , an ^ proceedings, while in the iave been fully ins‘ruCte “ a directions to stop all copies im- former the Custom-House authorities na norted for private use. LONDON NTED BV w. CLOWES AND SONS, STAMEOUD STREET*A SYSTEM OF SURGERY, BY J. M. OH EL I US, DOCTOR IN MEDICINK AND SURGERY, PUBLIC PROFESSOR OF GENERAL AND OPHTHALMIC SURGERY, DIRECTOR OF THE CIIIHURGICAL AND OPHTHALMIC CLINIC IN THE UNIVERSITY OF HEIDELBERG, &C. &C. &C. TRANSLATED FROM THE GERMAN, AND ACCOMPANIED WITH ADDITIONAL NOTES AND OBSERVATIONS, BY JOHN F. SOUTH, LATE PROFESSOR OF SURGERY TO THE ROYAL COLLEGE OF SURGEONS OF ENGLAND, AND ONE OF THE SUROEONS TO ST. THOMAS’S HOSPITAL. VOL. II. LONDON: HENRY RENSIIAW, 356 STRAND; MACLACIILAN, STEWART, & CO., EDINBURGH; AND FANNIN & CO., DUBLIN. 1847.royal college of physicians library CLASS M ACCN. j3 3 ft t> SOURCE DATE[ 1 1 SECOND DIVISION. (continued.) III.—SOLUTION OF CONTINUITY FROM ALTERED POSITION OF PARTS. (continued.) B.—OF RUPTURES. 1109. A Rupture (Hernia, Lat.; Bruch, Germ.; Hernie, Fr.) is the protrusion of an intestine from its own cavity into the surrounding cellular tissue, or into another cavity. Ruptures are therefore distinguished according to the three cavities of our body, as ruptures of the helhi of the chest, and of the head. J I.—Of Ruptures of the Belly. First Chapter.—OF RUPTURES OF THE BELLY IN GENERAL. Franco, P., Traite des Hernies. Lyon, 1556. 1744DNZ8vo G ’ 01)sei’vatlonum anatomico-chirurgicarum de herniis libellus. Lipsuc, Vogel, G., Abhandlung aller Arten von Briichen. Leipzig, 1746. Pott, P., Chirurgical Works, vol. ii. Edit., 1783. Le Blanc et Hoin, Nouvelle Methode d’ope'rer les Hernies. Paris, 1768. J™’ Abhandluug von den Briichen. Gottingen, 1778. Second Edition, 1785. Scarpa, A., Sull’ Ernie, Memoirie anatornico-cliirurniche Ediv QPnriTiri r>„ - 05 A T“tise - 5S Lawrence William, A Treatise on Ruptures. London, 1838. 8vo. Fifth Edition Cloquet, J., Recherches Anatomiques sur les Hernies de l’Abdomen. Paris, 1817. 4to 1819!D'4to.eCherCheS SU1’ kS CaUSGS Ct 1,Anatomie des Hernies Abdominales. Paris’ a of Abdom“ai l»SL"v“: A' K’’ Lehr'i den Emgeweidebrtchen.- 2 yds. Wurzburg, Hager, M., Die Briiche und Vorfalle. Wien, 1834. Jacobson, L., Zur Lehre von den Eingeweidebruchen. Konigsberg, 1837 Bamb“40. AfolK” DiG Erkenntniss und Behandlung der Eingeweidebriiche. GELAY°Alparis, cllniques sur les Hernies, recueillees sous les yeux par M. E. out the'^whokextenf otit?®11'ahdominales) maY occur through- monly they ocC r It o Wal1’ lf thls &lve waY °r be torn. .Most coin- openings for the nasJeo? PartiS °f the belly where there are already vol ii Passage of vessels, nerves, and so on. 3DIVISION OF RUPTURES. 2 1111. According to the various parts at which ruptures are formed, they are distinguished as, 1, Inguinal, which pass through the inguinal canal; 2, Femoral, beneath Pour art’s ligament; 3, Umbilical, through the umbilical hole ; 4, Thyroid, through the thyroid hole; 5, Ischiatic, through the ischiatic notch ; 6, Ventral, through the wall of the belly, the holes already mentioned excepted; 7, Perinceal; 8, Vaginal-, 9, Rectal, when the rupture protrudes at the perinceum, in the vagina, or in the rectum (l). Inguinal, femoral and umbilical are the most common ruptures, the others are more rare. [(1) To this list must certainly be added Phrenic rupture (Hernia diaphragmatica.') And English Surgeons speak also of mesenteric, meso-colic, and meso-rectal raptures, although strictly speaking they do not resemble true ruptures in leaving their proper cavity, but they burst through parts which have no natural opening for their passage and thus become displaced.—J. F. S.] 1112. Those intestines of the belly which on account of their position and connexion are least fixed, protrude most commonly, as the omentum and the small intestines, more rarely the large intestines, the stomach, the bladder, the internal female generative organs, and the like. Parts may be in the rupture which in their natural place are very far from it. These are either drawn down by the protruding intestines, with which they are connected, or by the descent of the peritoneum, to which they are attached. According to the intestine which ruptures contain are they distinguished as intestinal, (Hernia Intestinalis, Lat.; Darmbruch, Germ.; Enterocele, Fr.,) omental, (Hernia Omentalis, Lat.; Netzbruch, Germ.; Epiploc'ele, Fr.,) ventricular, (Hernia Ventriculi, Lat. ; Magenbruch, Germ.; Gas- troc'ele, Fr.,) vesical, (Hernia Vesicce, Lat.; Harnblasenbruch, Germ.; Cystocele, Fr.,) and so on. Several intestines may be contained at the same time in one sac, as for instance intestine and omentum, (Darmnetz- brucli, Germ. ; Entero-epiplocele, Fr.,) and the like. 1113. When the intestines of the belly are protruded into a rupture, they are usually enclosed in a sac, (saccus herniosus, Lat.; Bruchsack, Germ.; saclierniaire, Fr.,) which is formed of the lengthened peritoneum. In rare cases only is this sac deficient; for instance, when the rupture is caused by great violence, or after previous wound of the Avail of the belly, or after the application of escharotics for the radical cure of the rupture. The sac may also be torn, or destroyed by absorption. If intes- tines protrude, which are not enclosed in the peritoneum, fdr example, the bladder (1) and ccecum (2), there is not any sac; but if they be much protruded, they draw down the peritoneum connected with them, and thereby form a sac into which other intestines may pass. [(1) In regard to vesical rupture, it is certainly just possible that the bladder may rise to the internal abdominal ring, and thrusting up the peritoneum from that opening, may protrude some part of its body uncovered by peritoneum through it, and this may continue to descend through the inguinal canal and form a rupture without a peritoneal or true hernial sac. But such state of things is highly improbable, aud iu the two cases of vesical rupture in the museum at St. Thomas’s is certainly not so, for in this preparation it is the fundus of the bladder, that part of the organ most likely to be protruded, with its peritoneal covering which has passed through the abdominal ring into a distinct peritoneal sac, which from its appearance probably belonged originally to a rupture of the intestinal or omental kind. (2) I do not think that the ccecum Avould often protrude as a rupture without having a peritoneal sac, more than the bladder, and for nearly the same reasons. There is, however, in the Museum at St. Bartholomew’s a ccecum carried into the scrotum with a partial sac, and I have also had one case in which I suspect the colon did. ButHERNIAL SAC. 3 tlrni it does descend into a true hernial sac is beyond doubt, for in the museum of the Royal College of Surgeons of England, there is an instance of the lower end of the ileum the cacum and its appendage, and part of the ascending colon, with a large piece of omentum in the sac of a large oblique inguinal rupture. There is also another prepa- ration, in which the lower end of the ileum, with the cacum and its appendage arePin the sac of an inguinal rupture, and the extremity of the appendage is attached to bottom of the sac. In St. Bartholomew’s museum there is a scrotal rupture (with hydro cele m front) containing cacum and colon. Also a femoral rupture, in which there is small intestine, a portion of the sigmoid flexure of the colon and omentum. A very rare instance of protrusion of the vermiform appendage of the cacum in a lngUUlal ruPture is given by Tahamem.i (a); the appendage^alone was wPWHp the sac’ ^creased to four times its ordinary size, and an indent at its junction ■with the cacum showed the seat of strangulation. The patient did well. J. F.JS.] 1114. The cavity of the hernial sac is connected with the cavity of the belly by an opening, the mouth of the sac; the narrow part between this opening and the greater extent of the sac is called the neck of the sac- the remaining part the body; and the blind end, the bottom of the hernial sac. The sac is furnished with different coverings according to the difference of place where the rupture exists ; on its outer surface it is slightly connected with the surrounding cellular tissue, and therefore the sac remains external when the intestines have been returned. 115. lhe hernial sac is very frequently subject to chancres. The ^^"of which it is formed usually retains its natural concUtion and en in old ruptures it thickens, and is found to consist of several layers the cause of these changes, for the most part, rests on the thickening- of the cellular tissue, which covers the outer surface of the sac. The substancp of tdaSed fl'T ^The °ften Jhickens and even becomes almost car- Th <i ,chanfes are the result of the irritation and pressure the iiw- he Sal1S s”b->ec„ted’ by the passage forwards and backwards of the intestines ; they therefore occur especially in old ruptures which cmnof be properly kept up by the truss, and mostly at the SHf fte sac ?f by contraction of the neck of the sac, or by thickening of the 1b i 7fnf0™« ‘"o - degeneration^ ^ a'S° “ St' Th0m*S'S’ ls • preparation of a femoral hernia, sa0 C““S »f s,™*»re in the body of the sac, into its cavity, £ thSt the Ste is 'A “°r' ?.r0Periy'the “°“‘h of 33S years,^ml S ^ M2 ffi SsZ '£ ytry high up. This I divided unnn ■, °Peratlon an extremely tight stricture was found “Ti* °f the belly; but with fcSforefinger freely j«to the cavity of the belly • buTwhh olnf1 safficTiently to admit my forefinger freely ^ gin. After many unavailing efforts I St ^ 1 was “able to return muscle and the other covering nf rn 1 throu£h the tendon of the external oblicme mouth completely into view wi* UpPf part ot the sac-tiU 1 brought its stricfS iversaii tli Medicinn, vol. Ixxv, p. 430, 1835.4 SIZE, NUMBER, AND firmly and narrowly thickened, that it resembled a ring of whipcord. Into this blind circular pouch the intestine had been thrust at every attempt I had made for its reduction, and thus both escaped, and shut up the mouth of the sac. The finger could be passed into the cavity of the belly, as freely as before ; but I thought it best to divide this cord-like edge and the indoubled neck, so as to render the reduction more easy, and such was the result. The patient did well. As to the production of strictures in the body of the sac, I believe that generally these depend much more frequently on bands of adhesive matter having been thrown out under inflammation of the peritoneal sac itself, fromsome accidental cause or other, rather than from thickening of the cellular tissue external to it, which, however, may take place, as I have seen it do, occasionally producing, not indeed actual bands or strictures, but merely an hour-glass contraction of the sac. (3) Sometimes a hernial sac is contracted in its middle and assumes an hour-glass shape; such a case I have operated on, but it did not produce any confusion. Occasion- ally, however, it may, as is shown in a preparation at St. Bartholomew’s, in which the sac of a congenital rupture has an hour-glass contraction at the abdominal ring, and part of it is without, whilst the other part is within the belly, and into the latter portion the gut had been returned, and left.—J. F. S.] 1116. The size of ruptures is very different. Often the rupture con- tains the greatest part of the intestines of the belly; often is it so small that it can be discovered only with the greatest care. Of the intestine itself there is protruded either an entire loop or only a portion. 1117. Several ruptures often occur in the same subject. Barely are several, each having its own sac, at the same spot; more frequently, by the protrusion of the urinary bladder, or some other intestine only partially covered with peritoneum, so that the latter is drawn with it, a hernial sac is formed into which the intestines pass. A double hernial sac is very rare, and indeed possible only in inguinal hernia, where a special sac con- taining intestines may drive into the vaginal tunic of the testicle, when its mouth has remained open. Bransby Cooper (a) mentions a case of two inguinal ruptures on the same side; the contents of the hinder, larger sac, which remained external, were returnable into the cavity of the belly, but the front smaller sac with its contained intestine had been easily returned into the belly, by the taxis; he does not, however, explain, how it happened that this thrusting up of the sac and its contents had been effected which is one of the most curious points of the case. [Lawrence says, there is a “ kind of double rupture not ascertainable in general, except by examination after death, or in operating, viz.:—two sacs passing through the same opening; this may happen in external or internal inguinal or crural hernia:. There are instances of even three sacs, particularly in inguinal hernia.” (p. 13) As regards the number of hernial sacs, Astley Cooper says:—“ Two herniary sacs have been stated to pass behind the same crural arch; but although I would ot be understood to deny their existence, I have not seen an example of sacs having two separate orifices into the cavity of the abdomen; but I have known one hernial sac descending into the sheath for the crural vessels, and crossing the anterior part of these, and another portion of it quitting the sheath and extending in the usual direction upon the thigh.” (p. 4.) Fie also gives an example of six hernial sacs:—“Two of the sacs upon each side were placed between the umbilical and epigastric arteries; and one on each side is situated between the remains of the umbilical arteries and the pubes. They passed between the tendinous fibres of the transversalis, which they had separated, anil entered the adominal rings, after which they were covered, as usual, by the/osem, which is extended from the external oblique muscle over the spermatic cord.” (Explanation of pi. x. pt. i.) And he observes, that after wearing a truss, “ although the original sac may be completely shut at its mouth by adhesion or perfect contraction, it is possible that another sac may be formed contiguous to the first” And he gives an instance, in which “ two hernial sacs were found side by side, one open and capable of containing the bowels when protruded, the other contracted so much its not to admit a goose’s quill.” p. 23.) Morgan (A) had a remakable instance of a pouch formed at the mouth of the tunica (o) Guy's Hospital Reports, vol. iv. p. 326. (A) Astley Cooper, above cited, p. S3.KINDS OF RUPTURES. vaginalis, in consequence of partial adhesions of the membrane. The patient had scrotal rupture on the right side, accompanied with symptoms of strangulation. It was reduced with great ease, by gentle application of the taxis. The symptoms, however, continued, and on the following day “ a small tumour was perceptible in the course of the inguinal canal.” On the third day he was worse, and an operation having been decided on, “ after dividing the integuments, superficial fascia, and cremaster, in the usual manner, what appeared to be hernial sac was brought into view; this was laid open, and on the operator introducing his finger, it readily passed through the external ring into the inguinal canal; here an unnatural projection could be felt, but no gut was found, nor could the finger be passed into the abdomen. The inguinal canal was then exposed by slitting up the tendon of the external oblique, and the sac before mentioned was more extensively opened, still no intestine could be found, and no commu- nication appeared to exist between the sac and the abdominal cavity. A substance was felt in the canal which resembled a thickening of the cord.” Nothing more was done, and he died on the second day after the operation. Upon examination, the part “ supposed to be hernial sac, and opened as such, was the reflected portion of the tunica vaginalis, into the cavity of which the finger had been introduced.” The tumour in the course of the inguinal canal was a hernial sac, behind the cord, and containing a portion of strangulated intestine of a very dark colour, and with a large gangrenous spot. This hernia, had by its pressure, prevented the entrance of the finger into the belly. “ Just below the opening of the tunica vaginalis into the abdomen, was situated the mouth of a preternatural pouch, which extended downwards and inwards behind the fascia transversalis in the direction of the crural ring. It was into this pouch that a portion of the ileum had descended and had there become strangulated. It seems pro- bable that at the time of the man’s admission into the hospital, a large portion of intes- tine had descended into the cavity of the tunica vaginalis, the cavity of which bore all the appearances of an old hernial sac. This, however, was easily returned, while the pot tion of bowel contained in the other pouch, remained unreduced and suffering under strangulation, caused the symptoms which ended in the patient’s death.” (p. 83.) U1, ,^?e museum at St. Bartholomew’s there are two beautiful preparations, one exhibiting two inguinal hernial sacs, on the left side, close together and of considerable length, the mouth of the outer very small; the other femoral, in which there are two distinct sacs and orifices, the outer descends beneath the semi-lunar edge of the fascia Lata, but the inner is so small that it scarcely protrudes. . Sometimes the sac of a rupture is divided vertically into two, probably by adhesive inflammation. I have operated on one such scrotal case. In St. Bartholomew’s museum there is a common scrotal and also a congenital scrotal rupture of similar kind. n rare cases, one or other side of the sac of a femoral rupture is burst, and a part of its contents are protruded in either direction, so as to form a seeming second sac. I have ad three cases of this kind, which will be hereafter noticed, and the case mentioned by as-tley Cooper, in which “ one hernial sac descended into the sheath for the crural 1 C[°SSeu the au,ter.10r P.art of these, and another portion of it quitted the sheath kind Sf m n USUll dlreCtl0D up0u the thiSh>” CP- 4), I believe4to be of similar byBransuy CoopSr— J^lTs'f’ t0 bC confused with the case described and figured 1118- Ruptures are either free, or reducible, (frei, beweglich, Germ. • mobile, fir.,) when they return of themselves, or can be returned by moderate pressure; or irreducible, (unbeweglicli, Germ. ; immobile, Fr ) when their return is impossible, the cause of which lies in the adhesion J the intestines together or to the hernial sac, in the strangulation or r change of the parts found in the rupture, r 9' As regards their origin, ruptures maybe divided into original Lat.; angeborne Bruch, Germ.; Hernie congenital,, ■) and acquired (Hernia acquisitce, Lat.; erworbene Bruch, Germ • Fr,i; in the first case the intestines Pass through the processes h- t lC PerU.oneum’ whlch remain open ; in the second, after the P 1120 ti G C osef or at some °ther place. sional ' °f abclomillal ruptures are predisposing and occa- acauiml 1 ed!sP°'?ltl0n to rupture, which may be either original or <1 j onsists in a relaxation and weakness of the wall of the belly,STATISTICAL ACCOUNT OF and in greater enlargement of its natural openings. It may be produced by corpulency, by great extension of the wall of the belly during dropsy or pregnancy, by quick emaciation, by scars after wounds, especially when the injury of the abdominal wall has been connected with bruising; by diseased changes of the intestines of the belly, by loading them with coarse food, by immoderate use of relaxing drinks and the like. The occasional causes are all kinds of violence which produce great contraction of the wall of the belly and depression of the diaphragm, whereby the intestines are forcibly thrust against the former; for instance, a violent thrust or blow upon the belly, tight lacing, violent exertion on lifting heavy weights, in breathing, coughing, vomiting, in childbirth, peculiar positions, and so on. The greater the predisposing causes to rupture, the less requisite are the occasional causes; in great disposition to rupture, they often occur without any assignable occasional cause. In many countries ruptures are very common, and their causes seem to depend on climate, on the mode of living, and on the particular exertions to which the inhabitants are subjected. Ruptures occur more frequently in men than in women, and more fre- quently on the right than on the left side (1). [(1) Lawrence has given the following curious statistical account of ruptures:— *' The comparative number of the different kinds of ruptures, and the relative fre- quency of the complaint generally, as well as that of its various forms in the two sexes, and at different periods of life, are exhibited in the following statement, extracted from the register of the patients relieved by the City of London Truss Society within twenty- eight years:— In 83,584 patients, 67,798 were males, and 15,786 were females. Males. Females. 14006 511 left inguinal 1 . • , 24316 586 right inguinal J 39419 ln£umal | , t 45509 s;ngie 278 2255 left femoral I , ( 421 3256 right femoral f 6210 femoral J 24966 286 double inguinal] 169 1608 double femoral J 2/029 double 664 2775 umbilical 1 209 415 ventral J 4063 1 3 peritoneal 4 1 4 obturator 5 26 46 have undergone operations .... 72 2289 1401 with umbilical and inguinal hernia have been cui’ed 3690 446 243 with prolapsus ani c§9 2196 with prolapsus uteri 1 37 with prolapsus vaginae > 2392 159 with prolapsus vesicai j 6 5 with varix of the abdominal veins . . 11 67798 15786—83584 83584 In addition to the above statement, the following varieties in the situation of this malady have been noticed, viz. in 801 Males. 184 left inguinal and right femoral hernia, 82 left inguinal and left femoral hernia, 13 left inguinal and double femoral hernia, 10 left inguinal aud ventral hernia, 13 left inguinal and umbilical hernia, 3 left inguinal hernia and prolapsus ani, Carried forward 305VARIOUS KINDS OF RUPTURES. 7 Brought forward 305 3 135 27 25 16 26 7 1 87 54 27 1 12 1 48 18 2 1 1 1 1 left inguinal, umbilical, and ventral hernia, right inguinal and left femoral hernia, right inguinal and right femoral hernia, right inguinal and double femoral hernia, right inguinal and ventral hernia, right inguinal and umbilical hernia, right inguinal hernia and prolapsus ani, right inguinal, umbilical, and ventral hernia, double inguinal and right femoral hernia, double inguinal and left femoral hernia, double inguinal and double femoral hernia, double inguinal and double femoral hernia outside of the femoral vessels, double inguinal and ventral hernia, double inguinal and double ventral hernia, double inguinal and umbilical hernia, double inguinal hernia and prolapsus ani, double inguinal umbilical, and ventral hernia left femoral and umbilical hernia, right femoral and ventral hernia, right femoral and umbilical hernia, right femoral hernia outside of the femoral vessels, 801 366 Females. 13 left inguinal and left femoral hernia, 40 left inguinal and right femoral hernia, 1 left inguinal and double femoral hernia, 2 left inguinal and umbilical hernia, 6 left inguinal hernia and prolapsus uteri, 1 left inguinal hernia and prolapsus ani, 20 right inguinal and left femoral hernia, 5 right inguinal and right femoral hernia, 1 right inguinal and double femoral hernia, 9 right inguinal and umbilical hernia, 3 right inguinal and ventral hernia, 3 right inguinal hernia and prolapsus uteri, 1 double inguinal and right femoral hernia, 8 double inguinal and umbilical hernia, 5 double inguinal and ventral hernia, 1 double inguinal hernia and prolapsus uteri, 28 single femoral and umbilical hernia, 10 single femoral and ventral hernia, 1 left femoral and double ventral hernia on the right side, 1 left femoral and right obturator hernia, 3 left femoral hernia on the outside of the femoral vessels, ■ 14 single femoral hernia and prolapsus uteri, 2 right femoral hernia on the outside of the femoral vessels, 1 right femoral hernia on inside and outside of the femoral vessels, 2 right femoral hernia, prolapsus uteri, and prolapsus vesicae, 12 double femoral and umbilical hernia, 3 double femoral and large ventral hernia, 8 double femoral hernia and prolapsus uteri, 2 double femoral hernia and prolapsus ani, 22 umbilical and ventral hernia, 5 umbilical hernia and prolapsus uteri, 1 umbilical hernia, prolapsus uteri, and prolapsus vesicae, 1 ventral hernia and prolapsus uteri, 5 prolapsus uteri and prolapsus ani, 109 prolapsus uteri and prolapsus vesicae, 8 prolapsus uteri and prolapsus vaginae, 10 prolapsus uteri, prolapsus vesicae, and prolapsus vaginae 3668 SYMPTOMS OF REDUCIBLE RUPTURE. 5448 patients had congenital hernia 7299 patients were relieved with trusses under ten years of ace 4551 between 10 and 20 6 8715 20 — 30 13614 30 — 40 15627 40 — 50 14169 50 — 60 9761 60 — 70 3866 70 — 80 442 80 — 90 23 90 —100 78067 “ Of 457 hernias examined by M. Cloquet, 307 occurred in the male, 150 in the abdomen*2* * 246 0n ^ nght’ 187 °“ the left side’ and 24 on the mid(lle line of the “ The numbers of the different kinds were as follows:— Males. Females. 94 11 right external inguinal 1 ana ■ ,, 79 19 left ..... 203 external.| 39 8 right internal . . .1 „„ . .7 35 4 left f 8G internal. J 33 54 right femoral ... 1 22 25 left • 134 crural. 3 21 umbilical and linea alba .... 24. * ; 2 5 right obturator ... 1 0 3 left | . . . . 10 obturator. Recherches sur les Causes et l’Anatomie des Hernies abdominales, p. 9, note.”] 1121. The following are generally the symptoms of a reducible rupture o/ tlie belly, a swelling of quick or gradual production, not painful, elastic, of different form according to the opening by which it protrudes, on the surface of which the skin is unchanged, which can be returned by sufficient pressure, which returns of itself when the patient lies on his back, but after any exertion in coughing, sneezing, and the like, also after meal-time again protrudes or enlarges. It is accompanied with symptoms of disturbed intestinal functions, as sluggish bowels, rumblings in the bowels, belchings, disposition to vomit, dragging pains in the belly, and the like, which symptoms subside if the swelling be reduced, and afterwards the bowels are usually relieved. If the rupture be small and deeply situated, the diagnosis is often difficult, and must be determined by close examination, by consideration of the origin of the swelling, and by all the existing symptoms. 1122. Decision as to the parts contained in the rupture is often very difficult, often even impossible, on account of the different changes which the parts themselves and the coverings of the rupture undergo. * • [Cuelius’s observation, in reference to the difficulty or impossibility of distinguishing intestinal from omental rupture, is most fully borne out by practical experience, so that few persons are so hardy as to prognosticate the contents of a rupture-sac till it is opened.—J. F. S.] 1123. The intestinal rupture is characterized by a swelling more regular • on its surface, elastic, which enlarges when the intestine is loaded, and in returning affords a gurgling noise (1), often felt in the swelling by the patient himself, and by the simultaneous symptoms of stoppage of the passage of the stools. [(1) This gurgling noise is often entirely independent, I believe, of intestine, and caused by the quantity of fluid contained in the sac. And from the same cause arises a symptom which often puzzles a young Surgeon; to wit, the seeming reduction of a large portion 289 inguinal.9 CHARACTERS OF DIFFERENT KINDS. of the contents of the sac, -with a gurgling noise, whilst the remaining contents cannot be'returned; and on the removal of the fingers, the rupture reacquires its original size, but admits of the same diminution, by pressure, only again to recover its bulk when the efforts at reduction are given up. This is very easily explained, as the fluid contained in the sac being pressed, squeezes between the sac and its contents into the cavity of the belly, although the intestine or omentum is so firmly grasped by the stricture that it cannot be returned.—J. F. S.] 1124. The omental rupture feels doughy, irregular, often rope-like, has a more cylindrical form with a broader base, is more slowly developed, is more difficult to reduce, is unaccompanied with any gurgling, and produces a heavy dragging upon the stomach. 1125. Vesical rupture is distinguished by the swelling fluctuating, enlarging, and becoming tense, if the patient retain his urine, and diminishing when he discharges it; and by pressure on the swelling- exciting a disposition to void the urine. Frequently after making water, the tumour does not diminish, but the patient does not feel any disposition to urine, when it is pressed. As the bladder is always more or less dragged or pulled, the patient has a frequent disposition to make water; frequently the urine is completely retained, and in introducing a catheter' it must be observed that it be conducted in a peculiar manner into the bladder. If the vesical be complicated with omental or intestinal rupture the symptoms are confused. Not unfrequently a stone is formed in the protruded part of the-bladder. 1126. As to the other intestines which may be in the rupture the position of the rupture, its condition, and the disturbed functions of the contained parts, afford the key. If several parts be together in the rupture, these symptoms are confused. 11 27. Ruptures are always extremely important diseases. If they be left alone, and their neighbourhood be undisturbed, they always increase • the local and general inconveniences become greater, and the intestines may descend in such quantity into the rupture, that the greater part of By the changes produced in the hernial sac {par. Ills) and the contained parts, the return of the rupture is rendered impossible, or strangulation is produced. 1128. The intestines contained in the rupture, may, in consequence of 522?“^ t0 each or with th/hernial sZ^Sdthe or iT mavTJfil6 ^ ^ %mer® t t0gether with a gelatinous mass, sssr °"e <* distinguished from those muscular cent ",testine ™ay d(:Pend on the great development of their forward its contentsTfl °h Tlolent straining, for the purpose of driving of fibrine. ’ ie °kstructed return of the blood, or in the deposit stricturTlnTfom^ff freqiiendy very much changed in reference to its ’ it is usually thick and hard at the neck of the sac;10 SEAT OF STRANGULATION. „ Ao* tl.P nrotruded intestine is often either thickenea or tuch increased, beset with growths, ana oiten or nar. [(1) I do not think that the protruded intestine^is^o aestra |ated gut, is of two rowed. The thickening which is sometime^o strangulation, serum only is effused kinds. The less important is when in coats withgout other alteration, speedily into the cellular tissue connecting the intes5tm ^ ^ ^ bg feared. The other kind, in subsides on the division of the strict ^ adhesive matter, the result of a slow which the cellular tissue of t 6 u acquires a thickness of the eighth of an inch inflammatory action, and the intestinal removed, has a doughy teel, and is or more, does not subside when the the disease, and leads to of a dirty reddish-^ec^is(Le.-J. F. S.] the anticipation of an un _ on between the parts cor-—’ tl,“ —^^anticipation of an unfavourable — chained in the 1130. When by a disproportion betweei between the rupture, and the parts,cont^ngt , lation {Strangulatio, Lat. ; belly and the rupture 18^nalemmi, Fr.) ensues. The cattle, pro- Einklemmung, Germ., Et J \ ,)rotusion of the intestine in any ducing this disproportion are S,tK2e with stools, intestinal exertion, overfilling of l^e equent on overloading the stomach gas, foreign bodies, and the lik , ■ 1 , t. „rowth 0f the protruded with food difficult of digestion aidtlt’| omentum, and spas- intestine, inflammatory swelling, degeneration oi modic affection of the mtestmal canal. opening into the belly, *£& o/ the rupturei Bruchpforte, Germ.) or in the the * abdominal mouth of the 1132. The aponeurotic great quantity, rupture, produce the stiangu act[ve contraction, but because they do or increased in volume, nev ty elasticity, endeavour to return not yield any more, and by means of terete ^ 5’]ique) inguinai to their natural condition. Only { rupture, by contraction of the tures, does oblique and transverse wall of the beUy, where the hb possible to be produced. become strangulated. f h strangulation is often 1134. The delegation of the jat <°> ,*, ,„ay direct the difficult, often impossible. The tollowinD practitioner: nnicklv arises from severe violence, or Firstly. In a rupture which qmcky which it has escaped, a where, with little extensibility of the open B ) unyiddingneas of this w^Untity of intestine is s“?denly P“nlfe sttan^Uoo- ’The hernial opening is, for the most part, the cause of the Strang nll ta swelling does not spread npw^nb'i* whole.extent yielding inguinal rupture, the inguinal canal is « stretched (o). and free from pain 1 the pillars of'the outer r., thc most Secondly. That the strangulation is at « probably be sup- freouendj the case, at least in inguinal ruptures^ m J P ^ nosed, in ruptures which having been g l j e '„„ture protrudes, not SSrldet when the aperture ttoougtwhmh tMJP ^ a„d stretching, the hernial swe 1_.ng, a thong ^ „ „„ a. cn,.,« tretching, the hernial swe ling, a tnoug j ^ lu w„, a. ciw,» (a) Ddpvytbkn, De l’Etranglement. au collet touch Cmrurgicale, vol. i. P- 55/.11 INCARCERATION AND STRANGULATION. the attempt to return it behind the abdominal ring, a swelling is formed. The inguinal canal is full, hard, tense, painful, and presents to the feel a cylindrical swelling. Thirdly. Tearing of the hernial sac, or the inflammatory affection of the parts lying in the rupture, may be supposed to be causes of the strangula- tion, from the violence with which they operate upon the rupture itself; and in tearing the hernial sac, by the changes in its form which the hernial swelling undergoes from the projection of the intestines into the openino- of the sac (a). 3 Fourthly. The overfilling of the intestines with intestinal matter, causes strangulation, mostly slowly, in old ruptures, by its gradual collection, or by overfilling the stomach. According to Malgaigne, never does solid matter, but only intestinal gas collect; the true ground of strangulation is inflammation, which is consequent on such ruptures. . Fifthly. The growth of the intestine itself, and the strangulation result- ing therefrom, cannot be ascertained previous to operation. Malgaigne’s supposition, that the strangulation is not produced by the ring, but at tne neck of the sac, is too general; it is also opposed by Diday (6). 1135. According to the degree of disproportion between the containing and contained parts of the rupture, is the severity of the symptoms thereon depending. Therefore either merely the communication between the rupture and the cavity of the belly is stopped, (Incarceration; Incarceratio Hernia, Lat.; Einsperrung, Germ.,) or the protruded parts are at the same time so compressed, that the circulation of the blood and other juices is prevented ( Strangulation ; Strcmgulatio Hernia, Lat.; Einldemmunq, Arena.) In the latter case, the symptoms are dependent on the arrested passage of the intestinal matter, and on inflammation; they become very active on whmh account, this kind of strangulation is called inflammatory Zi In the former case, at least at the onset, the symptoms depend ' on . e arrested passage of the stools, they are little severe, and may continue longer, wherefore this kind of strangulation is distin- kt on lflh^T^5' bUt-lt rUnS earlier orlater int0 inflammatory strangu- m nil’ f 6 I"ProP°,rtl7on Proceed ^ the above-mentioned extent. It is sually connected with long-continued overloading of the intestine, lyino- bellv nnHP' ire’f-W 1 -St00 S’ °r With sPa-sraodie affection of the walls of the by vlJch helntSn" '“'“'‘"“"i ?f sfiasl,,,,'li'1' flatulent or bilious colic, IcarctaUmf *” ImmovaWy retaned in the rupture (.Spasmodic thS‘0^Sr7iJ±“l“ e £ f.“4 the classified the same, that is always st,'angulation w always, as regards its nature, but that it is only acute or Chronic accord^ a°,tual difference in its form occurs, gulation and the severity of the stran-’ Von Walther, Jaeger and nthpre > (Scarpa, Lawrence, Travers, Boyer proposed by Richter into inflnmru’L. °me ta ic 1? lts Wldest acceptation the division, stools, (Langenbeck Wilhftm T-tr 01sPasmodic, and that caused by collection of tion of the 8ymptoms al ^ j15a mOS> and others>) and differ only in their descrip- abdominal muscles, especiaUv of the w’ conseTlent on contraction of the some as a consequenceofL °1 the mgninal canal, (Langenbeck,) (A. Cooper,) and some as resulting °f the 1°ternal muscular inguinal ring, tendinous parts, arising from evprv ir tr” ^ sPas.modlc motion and contraction of the reference to the seat ottnlS ?mg- lmtat‘on (Wilhelm.) Rust assumes, in forming the opening of the imDture con^“f an,d P<tSsive> accol'dinS as the parts (a) B.K G rupture contract, and grasp the protruded parts, or according Annalen, voUi,'p",],; Cber Elnklemmung (lurch Zexreteung desBruchsacl.es ; in Heidelberg kliniscl.en (6; Gazette Medicale do Puris. 1841. No. 19.12 STRANGULATION. to their morbid condition, and lie assumes acco g * the stricture of the hernial sac, gulation, an inflammatory, spasmodic orga (* tand fcculent division. Sinogo- loops of omentum °r intestine, jn d2gree> according ashy it the com- vitz (a) considers strangulation as y g, difficult to a greater or less extent; all muuication is completely cut off 01 on j ■ ereordy from sympathy of the alimentary c»f the circulation of the blood and conMnU o the “a7naSel,, from Tocal hindranced™- intcstiue. This view was already takenb. Sm ?“ accordin6 to £s?S»S^71 taxation, collection of ettercmenh with spasm, and w„h from each other chiefly in relation osp 0fSthe opening into the belly should sumedhy many, an active ^ str£ngulation in general; since take place, is just as untenable as the ^ * cannot be admitted, external or oblique a spontaneous contraction of the aMomin fibres forming the internal ring inguinal rupture, perhaps, excepted, w^th ^ spasmodic affection in ruptures must may, as A. Cooper himself a > contents of the rupture; and as themflam- he sought not in the containing Par^bat J consequence of the strangulation, so must mation, although not the cause’.\s"S"‘/1^ptom accompanying the strangulation, by the spasm be considered as an imp' pnabied to fulfil the principal indication, namely, the relatively too great bulk ofthepro- very incorrect, for many are of the disease, in which the pro- incarcerated rupture property speakmg i ■ ^^ cannot return or be returned into truded omentum or intestine, fro toms of disturbed intestinal functions.. This the belly, but does not produce any symptom ^ ^ ^ ^ ruptureSl m which he is of very common occurrence, part 1|yyellinK. A strangulated rupture is on the only inconvenience is the b^uness o The protruded omentum sometimes contrary a most serious and quickly ^ w £all of the belly, a portion or tying down or compressing between itse the beby s0 as to prevent the passage rfnitfons of the intestines still within the cavity at the^ ^ v q{ ;ntestme of their contents, and thus causing vomiting 1 - contents cannot pass which has descended into the sac, is so gut ^ neo^ of the neck 0f the through it, and even its morUficatMU^ y ^ ThJse obsevvations prove the marked sac preventing the flow o d strangulation. It must, however, be r distinction between incarceration and s[™ derated till the stricture be removed, and hered that every stran^iated rupture stricture does not necessarily getndrf it be rendered returnable; but f®/Xr causes, as adhesions or size of the protruded 80 ■ incapable of return witnom pi —-- * ,, ... in after 1136. The symptoms of “**57“^ intestine, or in a the sudden protrusion of a exertion and the like, or in those suddenly produced rupture a . truss are, more severe pain in the which have been long kept uj y ‘ ’ tied round the belly; the hernial swelling and a sensation, as it a d . beichings and vomiting rupture is tense, elastic, and cannot be returned ^ of fluid of the contents of the stomach, su isequ > ’ ’ less frequent, rtool and P-t of the clysters; fdrink‘ the pulse, at first quick and ha^, hernial swelling, and the skin the belly is tense and tender, as is also there is obstinate costive- — are ewToments in the large intestines, they can be ness, but when there Schenkei-brT,chenJ l)’Jcitung zu einer zweekmussigen ^ luon Danzig, 1S3013 INCARCERATION. emptied by clysters (1). In small ruptures which contain only one wall of the intestine, (Littre’s (a) or lateral rupture,) the costiveness may be deficient or imperfect. If no assistance be afforded, the uneasiness, anxiety, tension, and painfulness of the belly and of the rupture increase, the vomiting becomes more frequent and painful, the body is covered with sweat, the pulse, quick, small, and thready, becomes irregular, the patient’s counte- nance sinks in. Exacerbations and remissions of these symptoms, however present themselves, and deceive both the patient and the practitioner. [(1) Although costiveness is generally one of the symptoms of strangulation, it is by no means uncommon for the bowels to be relieved, and not unsparingly, although the strangulated bowel be impervious. This depends on the part of the intestinal canal strangulated; and the quantity of stool remaining in it below the protruded part. I have on more than one occasion heard Surgeons of eminence speak of dilatation of a strangulated rupture on coughing, which I must confess I think impossible, if the rupture be more than incarcerated. Luke, however, as will be hereafter shownVp 47 ) when he describes the mode of ascertaining the seat of stricture, in reference to the operation for its division external to the sac, has explained that this dilatation is not of the part strangulated, but of that part of the rupture immediately above the seat of stricture, whilst that below remains unaltered. Such dilatation may happen when the seat of the stricture is at a distance below the mouth of the sac, but where the mouth itself is strictured, it cannot be possible.—j. f. s. Astley Cooper observes, that “ when more than one irreducible hernia exists in the same person, it is sometimes difficult to determine which it is that requires operation ■” and he mentions the case of a woman, in which there was a rupture in each groin and another at the navel. Her symptoms not being urgent, the operation was deferred, and she died on the same evening. On examination, “ the tumour in the right groin was found to be an enlarged and inflamed absorbent gland, lying over au empty hernial 6 !?? ,gr°m Pftion of inflamed intestine, and at the navel was an irre- mattS™had suPPurated, and contained about a table-spoonful of 1137. In a slighter degree of inflammation, and when it is Iona- con- fined merely to the seat of strangulation, the symptoms are less violent and come on more slowly. The pain in the belly is not severe, but rather forcing, the belly remains soft, and not painful, the vomitino- jurs at bnger periods, and with less violence, the pulse is little or not at all altered. The symptoms first become more severe on the farther extension and increase of the inflammation. r„,!.138- T1Je incarceration from overloading the intestines lying in the rupture, or from collection of stools, occurs mostly in old and large ruptures paStt,TUth 0f ‘7 rT,l,re is 'Tide “d h“ >°s‘The patient has for some days felt unusual weight and dragging in the rupture °f'^tion - &‘“'en«; th? ru^re7S iSe reouirp, "0t V®ry tellse> and doughy to the feel, and fufl and f 1 eri PreTre in attemPtin£ its reduction; the belly is indeed f0l ow beLhfnf UP’ •? n0t Piainful 5 if pain c0me on’ Permits ; then be got rid offw V°mitlnf ’ and costiveness. This incarceration, if it cannot symptoms becmLPIi0Per ftrf t'lient> may co»tinue a long time before the them. urgent, but earlier or later inflammation accompanies JL1®* If.there be Wlth this incarceration, spasmodic symptoms or if mSieTffceSTT °,f in the fe^foTfespJ- women and after ail 1181 lve persons, hypochondriacal or hysterical men, and after ailments which produce spasmodic, flatulent, or bilious haamf*' Ci['bef8^otlin?t,eln “• 'vidernaturlichen After, angsbrnche (Ilcrnia: Litlcricce) mit Hermcrkun- j ’ 18-11 > wlth one copper-plate.14 CONSEQUENCES OF STRANGULATION. colic, the symptoms come on more quickly, the rupture although tense is little or not painful, often changes its form, becomes larger, and again smaller ; the pain shifts its place, subsides and returns ; the evacuation of the bowels ceases; the patient generally does not vomit often, only after some drinks, whilst others he retains ; the pulse is small, contracted, and inegular; the urine generally pale ; the respiration difficult; the symptoms often quickly attain a great height, but again subside. Inflammation super- venes earlier or later upon the symptoms above mentioned, and it is there- fore necessary to be very careful not to be deceived by the symptoms of slight inflammation, and to consider it as consequent on spasmodic affection. 1140. If the strangulation be not relieved, sloughing of the confined part is to be feared, and so much the more as the strangulation and inflam- mation are severe. The parts enclosed in the rupture are often gangrenous, without the external parts presenting any such change. But usually on the occurrence of gangrene the swelling loses its elasticity and painfulness, the skin becomes bluish-black'at several places, emphysematous, and the epidermis separates ; the painfulness of the belly and the vomiting cease ; the powers sink ; the pulse becomes small and irregular ; cold sweats cover the limbs and face of the patient; the features are altered ; the ideas become confused ; the swelling bursts and discharges very offensive stool. Most commonly gangrene is the forerunner of death, the patient, however, may under these circumstances recover, the sloughy part of the intestine sepa- rates, and its remaining extremities adhering to the peritoneum, form an artificial anus. 1141. If the omentum alone be strangulated, the symptoms are generally not so severe, because it can more easily bear compression in proportion, as its structure is not already changed. The inflammation, however, spreads from the constricted part to the other intestines. Although the relief of the bowels be not suppressed, yet belching and vomiting occur. The constricted omentum may pass into suppuration and gangrene (1). Suppu- ration is an uncommon result; an abscess may form above the constricted part which may empty itself into the belly. Sloughing often occurs without any great effect upon the general condition of the patient; the sloughy part separates, and the remaining part adheres to the opening. [(1) Key (a) makes a very important remark in reference to strangulated omental rup- ture, which, however, I do not remember to have observed; he says:—“ When from the nature of the symptoms the case appears to be merely an omental hernia, the operation must not be hastily proposed, for it is not easy to distinguish between inflammation of omentum which has been irreducible, and strangulation; for the inflamed state of the omentum without strangulation, the operation will afford no relief; on the contrary, it will aggra- vate the inflammation. It is highly advisable, therefore, to try the effects of active general depletion, and the application of leeches to the part, under which treatment the symptoms will often disappear. The result of operations on omental hernia, which have been attended by acute symptoms, as great tenderness of the part, continued sickness, tense and tender belly, has been such as to induce me to try every means of allaying the inflammatory action before resorting to the operation. The operation, in the cases that have come under my notice, has not suspended the symptoms, as it generally does in enterocele, but the patient has sunk within a few hours from the effects of the inflam- mation.” (p. 36, note.)] 1142. The treatment of ruptures differs according to the different circum- stances under which they are met with, namely, reducible or irreducible, strangulated or gangrenous. 1143. In reducible ruptures the indication is to reduce the protruded 00 A. CoorKH, above cited.15 REDUCTION OF RUPTURES. parts and to prevent their reprotrusion. This treatment is either palliative by wearing a truss, or radical, by the organic closing of the hernial opening. 1144. The reduction of a rupture {Taxis, Repositio Hernia;, Lat • Zuriickbringung eines £ ruches, Germ.; Repoussement de la Hernie, Fr.) is best effected early in the morning, when the bowels are empty, and the person is in a position, in which the walls of the belly are as much as possible relaxed, and the place of the rupture is most raised; therefore on the back, with the rump raised, the knees drawn up, and the body inclined towards the side on which the rupture is. Previous emptying of the urinary bladder, and of the large intestines with a clyster or purge will facilitate the taxis. The manoeuvre of the reduction itself consists in a sufficiently moderate pressure upon the whole swelling, according to the direction in which it has been protruded ; or in the greater size and more oblon°- form of the hernial swelling, the fingers of the right hand are to be applied from the bottom around the swelling, the thumb and the other fingers of the left hand upon the two sides of the abdominal opening, and then it is to be attempted with the right hand to return the rupture according to its direction, whilst with the fingers of the other hand the parts returned are to be kept up. Often the taxis operates very easily, but often a part of the contents of the intestine must be first returned by a moderate pressure on the rupture. During the reduction the patient must avoid all contrac- tion of the walls of the belly. In proper positions of the body, small ruptures often return of themselves. TnJl.^o-pttteimptl^gfth? reduction of a rupture by the taxis, it is always advisable to make gentle and steady pressure over the whole swelling for a few minutes in order to mnpty into the belly any fluid contained in the sac, so that the protruded gut or omentum : - efipSr-o. Surgeon oftenTncirhe'has retamefa lai^ portbn^f tlTpSu^ hen in reality not the least part of it has moved, as the exposure of the bowel W the very doubtful k ’r4/*8 the success of a subsequent operation caution" and witTmoderate 5 th^fore be attempted only1 with great the rupture cannot be reduced bv thp / P!"essur®.- ^ a^ter the warm bath and bleeding, is best to pSKSpS^*" aiPphe? DOt bey°nd half an hour, I think it it will happen that after the C > ’ a*leastdangerous to the patient. Occasionally succeed irfrlrning the ruptur^ or L * ^7? ffiled’ the Patient himself will bowel return spontaneously in consemiPnpp pf smhlenly become very faint, and the the peristaltic action of the’intestines within the^Pliluxation of the parts permitting the body, acting upon the portion within u ^ bel y> or some accidental movement of effected, the rlturTsSn w tE Z’ t0 its Place> ^ich remedy to empty the vessels of the part. application of ice, or any other Surgeon™?reduceTrupturo 'Satensteat'Tof6-^11161'! by t,1G paticnt himself or by the ruptuie, mat instead of its contents merely being reduced, as in16 REDUCTION IN MASS, ordinary cases, the whole tumour, sac, bowel, and all, is thrust up into the belly, and the reduction seemingly effected, but the symptoms of strarigulation still continue, and the patient dies; nor is it till after examination of the body that the cause of the mischief is found out. To this unhappy mode of returning a rupture the French Surgeons have given the names Reduction en bloc, or Reduction en masse. It appears to have been first noticed by Le Dhan (a), in a man with femoral rupture, which had been reduced twenty-four hours after its strangulation. The symptoms, however, did not cease, but continued for a week, at the end of which Le Dr an saw him; but he was too nearly gone to admit of operation, and died the same evening. The Surgeon first in attendance said, “ that at the time of the reduction, he did not hear that noise the intestine generally makes when it enters into the belly; and that the parts composing the rupture passed in a heap under the ligament, like a tennis ball. * * * Upon opening the body we found the hernial sac in the belly, about three inches in depth, and eight in circumference, and within it was contained half an ell of the intestinum jejunum.” (p. 14) Le Dran directs in such case that “ a cut should be made where the rupture was, and that the ring should he dilated or the ligament divided, in order to draw the sac back with the fingers, or a pair of forceps. The sac should then be cut open, its entrance dilated, and the intestine reduced. The sac cannot be far distant, since it is a part of the peritoneum that lines the inside of the pelvis.” (p. 21.) De la Faye (b) and Arnaud (c) confirmed Le Dran’s observation by their own experience ; but the fact was disputed by Loois (d) on account of the presumed connexion of the sac with the surrounding parts, and its large size rendering its return beneath the crural arch very diflicult. Richter (e), however, defended the statement of Le Dran. Another case occurred to Scarpa (/), in a boy of thirteen, in whom the symptoms of strangulation continued after the presumed reduction of the rupture; “ in fact, in the dead body of this boy there was not externally the smallest appearance of tumour in the inguinal region; but on opening the abdomen, it was immediately discovered that the intestine, still strangulated by the neck of the hernial sac, had been pushed up along with the sac beyond the ring, where it was seen rolled up between the aponeurotic parietes of the abdomen and the great sac of the peritoneum.” (p. 49; Engl. Edit. p. 143.) Sabatier, Dupuytren, and Sanson, have also had cases of this kind, and Dupuytren has had not less than six of them (g). It is a very curious circumstance, that although these cases of reduced ruptures in mass, do not seem to have been very rare in France, yet till very lately they have been scarcely ever noticed in this country. Lawrence says :—“ I have never seen a rupture reduced in a mass in this manner in the living body ; nor have I seen any example of such a reduction in pathological collections.” (p. 94.) And Key (b) observes :•—“ 1 have never known this to take place when the hernia has been reduced by the taxis.” (p. 121.) Sir Charles Bell mentions (i) a case of this kind, in which “ a tumour was discovered quite within the muscular walls of the abdomen, which proved to be the strangulated intestine within the peritoneal sac: so that the Surgeon had reduced the sac and the intestine within it; and the stricture which produced the strangulation being in the mouth of the sac, there was no relief; and the patient died.” (p. 926.) In the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons there is an example of an inguinal rupture reduced in mass, and pushed between the abdominal and iliac muscles, aud the peritoneum, part lying below the crural arch and extending outwards nearly as far as the external iliac vessels. It forms a considerable swelling inwards towards the cavity of the belly, but is not perceptible externally. The rupture was an old one, and the patient having worn, a truss, was not inconvenienced by it, nor ever had difficulty in returning it, till it became strangulated. Another case occurred in consultation to my friends Green and Callaway, in the year 1836, and to them I am indebted for the following particulars. The patient, it appeared, had several years before, whilst in Spain, had symptoms of strangulation aud a swelling in the scrotum, which having been pushed up completely by a Spanish Surgeon, after a time the symptoms subsided; and he was not further inconvenienced until the attack now to be mentioned. On this occasion there was a swelling on the left side of the scrotum, irreducible but transparent, and accompanied with symptoms of strangulation. No relief was obtained by medicine, aud it was determined to perform (n) Observations de Chirurgie, &c. vol.ii. 12mo. (6)* Operations de Dionis. Fifth Edit., p. 324, note A. Paris, 1716. fcl Traite des Hermes, vol. u. p.%. , (rf) Memoires de l’Acad. de Chirurgie, vol. iv. p' a99' (t) London Medical (tf) Programma, in quo demonstratur hemiam incarcerat&m una cum sacco suo reponi per annu- lum abdominalcm posse, etc. (/) Above cited. (g) Dictionnaire de Medecine et Chirurgie pra- tiques,—Art. Hernie, vol. ix. p. 571. (h) Above cited. Gazette, vol. xiii.17 AND ITS CONSEQUENCES. an exploratory operation. A cut was made into the swelling, the fluid evacuated m,l the finger being introduced, readily passed in and turned freely about, and the intestines were felt, as it seemed, in the belly, and free from strangulation. The symptoms how ™ Vrn?T^nand the paticllt,dicd, four days after their onset. On' elniin%£h as found that the cavity, opened in the scrotum, did not, as supposed, permit the finder to pass directly into the general cavity of the peritoneum, but into a large sac lyfng b ''e<2l, and the m'lllacus’ ln which were contained intestines, and these ■were strangulated in a small aperture at the upper inner side of the sac, where was the communication with the cavity of the belly. The testicle lay behind the scrotll sac J'l*t(rat-h ext<jr“al abdominal ring. Gheen supposes that the rupture was originally con emtal, and that when the patient was in Spain, the Surgeon had violentl/thrust up the whole rupture and the testicle into the belly, the sac doubling on itself but that slo/zr +rd partla!y or completely relieved itself, and that afterwards the the er/br/f // ? ?* ™USt tberefore be admitted, that Luke is fairly entitled to acconnt/./'one of which //ildno[ s^brnk The nossihilih ■ 6 0the was operated on and recovered. clearly prewed by Jule/^oouet/// w "***’ M ^ been doubted or deaied, was “When the S? Cloquet (c) m his experiments on the dead subject. He savs- and the latter is also some what^di 1 ateV whsfongIy t0 tbe aponeurotic opening, the rupture towards the cavity of the hellv th 1S ’l/, uncommon, in pushing violently the aponeurotic ring leuSand °f the neck’ and of from each other • the former si nice: nQC • ’ • e openings which were near, separate Whilst the taxi's is empToved the wldlstjhe latter stains its place, side becomes very prominent and much °f tbe sac on its abdominal former case, (where^tT^nec^of/he^ac/rlh1/^!611?*^’ f D° °nger formed as in the by the whole thickness of the aMnm;C adbeicd closely to the aponeurotic opening,) and detached from the muscles bv l ■ m<f'ely by the peritoneum raised parts. The sac re-enter™ successive! }Z/i fZ endcavours get between those rotic ring as it dilates: and towards theZ’ndZr/7 U and little, through the aponeu- behind this opening. It is then easily felt tb/lte.scaPes suddenly, and gets finger on the spot which the runture ^H /dt though the abdominal walls, by placing the hke tumour deeply-seated above the‘ring T/* forms a large, hard, round, chestnut- rupture has returned en bloc and is sitnfterl h / Ca?e tbe reduction is complete, the posterior surface of the aponeurotic ring th® abdom!nal peritoneum and the as soon as the sac has entirely slimed over contrac!s sllSbtIy, by its elasticity, pearance of the tumour exteniallZ Thfs fd,f‘r * C,e,rta,.n P°int prevents tb« reap- sbght rush, in consequence of teb./tvn.4? fu ‘1°° ls sometimes followed by a ring: hnt m;,. i 1 . tne nasty passage of the bottom of tim ,i.. 1. fi .. ^ight rush, in consequence of the Instv m c c fi" t°C ls sometimes followed by a r'ng: but this rush never hannenfw^ PgG-°f !hc bottom of the sac through the 'his last condition exists the turnon/,1Gn th? rmg IS very loose and wide. * * * When m in m^ in Z f tw/ntvJ •*? 6qUal readineSS' 1 ba'm accom- otherwise irreducible SJ'ff ! mstances, partly of ruptures either ial fdireefi inrmmoi’iu„„ . mpty hernial sacs. It is effected most easily in im wj- irreducible, part] le size, when S ^.U“blhca ruptures in adults. Wheii the sap A ,ulw never : * 01 considerable size, when it nAh*™* ”“rTvu; 1UFMU®1U minis, vvnen the aponeurotic opening is small -,,.,1 • ad ler®s closely to the surrounding parts, when the ™. with In" Sal luaS t"0'Vhic’h BMi nP , . , ^ 1 in mass of a 1 rans., voi. xxvi/p^jyj'°ns’ Med.-chlrurg. Vol. n. (b) l ancet, 1842-3, vol. ii. p.242-45. (c) Kccherclies sur les Causes, &c. above cited. C18 REDUCTION IN MASS, rupture strictured by the neck of the sac, takes place most easily when the aponeurotic ring is of large size and short; when the sac and its neck are loosely connected to the surrounding parts ; and when the protruded viscera adhere together, anil to the sac, so that reduction in the usual way is impracticable. In a case of internal (direct) inguinal and in another of crural rupture, I found that the tumour could only be returned in a mass, although the neck of the sac was not narrow, in consequence of close adhesions between the protruded parts and their peritoneal covering, (p.113-15.) The following are some of the more important of Luke’s pertinent observations (a) in reference to the existence of a rupture reduced in mass, when without any tumour symptoms of strangulation are present:—“The too exclusive reliance upon the absence of tumour as a sign of the non-existence of a hernia, may, in certain cases, be highly dangerous. In suspected cases, more security will be derived from the institution ol inquiries concerning the previous existence of a tumour in the part, and or its conditions when ascertained to have existed, such as its hardness, or the reverse, its freedom from pain, and also the amount of, and the manner of applying the force used for its reduction. By such inquiries, not only may the dependence of the symptoms of intestinal obstruction upon hernial strangulation be determined, but also the presumption of a reduction en masse may he raised or removed. Should such a presumption be raised, the Surgeon wi then be prepared to push his inquiries further, and to seek for indications to direct his diagnosis, which are not usually sought for in ordinary examinations. The mode ot proceeding to render these indications available to our use, is twofold. 1 hat, howe er, will in prudence be first adopted which requires mere manual examination without incision, while the second should be had recourse to, provided the first tends to strengthen the presumption of a reduction en masse previously raised. . 11 is a circumstance worthy of remark, that the firmness of the adhesions of the parts in which it is imbedded, bears no proportion to the duration of the hernial protrusion, as might be, a priori, expected ; for in all the cases (of reduction in mass) related, the hernia had been of some years’ continuance, yet in each was reduced without the employment o m “CTherpresence of sac, even without hernial contents, causes an abnormal fulness in the part, easily ascertainable by examination. The absence of such fulness in a part, when hernia is known to have previously descended, necessarily leads to the conclusion that the sac upon which it depended has been displaced, and probably returned, together wUh die Tern ta. The sac in inguinal hernia, below the external ring, becomes united with the spermatic cord, whereby the latter is usually rendered indistinct and obscure The absence of that indistinctness and obscurity implies the removal of the cause which previously produced them, and, therefore, that the sac has been displaced. The conti- nuance of Pthe indistinctness and obscurity leads to a directly contrary concluao . When a hernia descends from the abdomen, the aperture through which it descends is always enlarged and dilated. This fact is ascertainable by the introduction of a finger a circumstance which becomes available to the diagnosis in these cases. Should a large Le”be detected, a previous hernial descent may be inferred Under ordinary circumstances of hernia, when the contents are reduced into the abdomen, the area of the aperture is occupied by the remaining sac, while its margins are rendered mo less obscure. If, then, a large aperture be found free and unobstructed, with its margin unobscured there is raised not only a presumptive evidence of the previous protrusioi of a hernia'at the part, but also the further evidence of the displacement and proba t c ££?££& of ,he sac by which .he W tad been mvested. Je ™ M to a contrary conclusion by contrary circumstances. These, I believe, are tne on y indications useful to diagnosis, resulting from changes caused by the previous descent o canal afford any available info^H unless a tumour be discoverable in its course; a circumstance which, by the dearno^ of the evidence it affords, renders the diagnosis comparatively easy, and affirma i i y cLdLive, but constitutes a description of case not intended to be included.nrthe scop* of the present observations, which are directed exclusively to cases unattended j y ““S? TSSSU, ^‘examination of .he «W-e», immediaml; above the »a, of rib inflammatjon^of the hefnial — «jU — wUhXe abdominal parietes, may possibly be cognizable upon a '"“^a^ajon, C,7) Cases of Strangulated Hernia reduced en masse, with observations, in Med-Chir. Trans., vo . ;AND ITS CONSEQUENCES—OPERATION FOR IT. 19 yet the absence both of circumscribed pain, and of fulness or rounded form shn„T,l not lead to a negative opinion ; for in the first case, neither pain nor fulness existed yet subsequently a mass of strangulated intestine was discovered at the part Thni - presence, however, may be taken as corroborative of an affirmative opinion 'founded upon the manual examination previously instituted. 1 ’ naea “If circumstances justify a suspicion of a reduction en masse in any case, thev will also justify attempts to cause reprotrusion of the tumour, that, by bringing it into view h S. r^nn/n0/ ’“7 be wholly removed- With this intention, as advised bj ■ urgeons of authority in such matters, the patient should be placed in the erect posture, and be requested to cough forcibly, to strain, and to make exertion. This course of proceeding seems likely to be of use when the hernial tumour is either in the inguinal cana or at the internal ring; but if it be reduced within the abdomen LTn the ®f,f/e ated’ 7y<?n-d7® Sltuatl0n of the ring, the probability of affecting its reprotrusion be much diminished, and consequently an opinion of the non-existence of n masse, drawn from the non-appearance^of a tumour, is to be cautfouZ a.oided " ^ thoVSh’ after ‘the most r,gld local manual examination, the indications afforded for our gmdance are so obscurely marked,” as to afford “a sufficient explanation wfv Surgeons, under these circumstances, are usually unwilling to have recourse to ulteHor measures of examination, by submitting the patient to the certain pZ and noSZ danger of an exploring operation, yet such unwillingness may prevent the adontifn lf infinitely to be preferred to no attemnt It IT ^ ^ ,mSllCCessfbI attempt is more destructive to life than any incisions which hemaybe^equSto ma£^Cu5 Dupuytren- (u)obLfvesSWhen the b^ioi f Ced 7ptUr?at a Particular spot, as about in the Lily, because it is formedin ls reduced in mass it cannot move movable, remains always in the region to^which it'L’l ^ 116 pe'ltoneum’ which although tumour. The rupture is thL perSeLlvTiel iL tllf 7gS’-and cons^aently retains the and resting on its internal snrf-icc o y 1 , ! e t>Penirig, by which it has returned viously united the peritoneum to the waff Ttfteffy*^“whichf!Th 7d prP‘ receive it, the returned tumour is found besides to lU ™ ! , 7 been displaced to peritoneum, which is actually that detached from the hid f ""'p ? second lajer of to penetrate the hernial sac, bycutting? surface of the belly; so that must be twice cut, and its cavit/openedlieforPabdominal wall, the peritoneum operation were performed like^ that for tviim- 7 the.^.avity of'the sac, unless the detaching the serous membrane DueovS does noTT^11"0 ar‘ery’ by rising and through the peritoneum and opening the ab(im ,l , , L -’t hoWt'ver’.advlse either cutting to get at the hernial sac. «‘There isfo S » l y’ 7 tam,nS off that membrane dangerous mode of treatment which en lllll ' 3’ 7 7’ a more simple and less rupture by the opening through which ff bnd LI aud dra-mg down the be found resting on thSe inSl sm fLe 5^ that open W 1 assui'ed * -ill with the forceps, and drawn out with ?,7i V18’ where it can be laid hold of tumour be examined through the cavitv o tlLII CU.ttlng tbe edSe of the ring. If the !,lac pit, a little more outwards i^™T ! Perlto,!emn’ 11 -ill be seen lodged in the inguinal rupture. It presents anarrow * 1 m°re inwards aud deeper in intestine are plunged, forming a loop in the^aviw of ?1 “ "'b’clJ the two ends tbe the intestines are compressed nmmL u cav ty oi tbe sac- It is at this point that end more frequently than the lower • the former ?trfngulated> and mortified, the upper cr?;*nd ,ike *• 515a? ffissrrto **"*■»*,he *&•. ate to l,o ™ LtJM, “ the indications which ?* useful in the manual examination P t’ of as,n.lllar nature to those already mentioned inasmuch as the parts to bc“i °d'arc ** h°Wever>“ore satisfactory and d tine ’ ind are nr.t ch. * . , ex.amined are, by our incisions, hmnnl.tlm ’ 0 220 REDUCTION IN MASS—OPERATION. cord be distinct and unobscured by the presence of a sac, and a void is found where fulness is to be expected from the previous history of the case, a strong presumptive evidence on the contrary side is established, that the hernia, together witli its investing sac, is reduced. In proceeding with the exploration, the inguinal canal is next laid open. * * * I hold a close observance of the condition of parts within the canal to be a matter of very great importance. It will be recollected that the ordinary oblique inguinal hernia, during its passage through the canal, lies anterior to the spermatic cord. The hernial sac, when left empty after the reduction of its contents, occupies the same relative situation, and consequently overlays and obscures the cord after the canal is laid open. If the reverse of this is found in a case where a hernial descent is known to have previously existed, and the cord is ascertained to be clearly and distinctly brought into view, throughout the whole extent of the canal we may justly conclude, that the distinctness and clearness with which the cord is seen are caused by the removal and consequent reduction of the hernial sac from over it, which reduction can be effected in no other direction than into the abdomen. “ The condensed cellular capsule (usually found) immediately investing the sac * * * has but little connexion with the sac, and will remain even when the sore has been reduced. * * * If found and ascertained to be empty, the circumstance is of a very con- clusive character, and moreover will afford a direct clue to the situation of the hernia. A finger introduced through an opening made in such capsule, will be conducted towards or through the internal ring, beyond which it will be brought into contact with the hernial tumour itself, having in the introduction passed through the same channel by which the reduction was effected. “ The indications to be noticed at the internal ring are of a similar nature to those mentioned as being found at the external ring, and relate to the size of the aperture and the structures by which it is occupied. “ It will be observed that up to this period the proceedings of the exploration have been conducted without any danger of importance, and without any necessary disturb- ance to the peritoneum, yet information of the most conclusive kind may have been obtained, and such circumstances brought under notice as could fully justify the opera- tion, even if manifold, more hazardous than it really is. * * * “ The operation may be conducted to a demonstrative conclusion, by ascertaining the existence or non-existence of a hernial tumour, without adding materially to the trilling danger already incurred. This is accomplished simply by the introduction of the finger through the internal ring, and by passing it from side to side. Should a hernial tumour be present, it will at once be recognised, and found lying externally to the general peritoneal membrane, although within the parietes, and presenting a rounded surface. Should a tumour be not present, the circumstance may be ascertained by observing the smooth surface of the peritoneum, and the continued adhesions which it maintains with I the parietes immediately surrounding the ring. If doubt still exists, an enlargement of the internal ring, by division of the adjoining transversalis fascia, will afford a clearer exposition of parts, and a more decisive evidence for either an affirmative or a negative . conclusion; and thus an exploration may be conducted to its termination without the jj necessity of any peritoneal section. _ .• “ When the doubts have been resolved in the affirmative, by the discovery of a hernial tj tumour, the tumour may be brought into the inguinal canal, so as to occupy its former I situation before reduction, by enlarging the ring to the requisite extent for its passage. . jfl It may afterwards be opened, and its contents dealt vfith according to their condition, iK as under the ordinary circumstances of common operations. * * * “ The sac should, in all circumstances be opened, and its neck freely divided, so as • I not to leave any impediment to reduction of its contents into the general peritoneal !■ cavity. It should be recollected also, that the adhesion of the sac to the surroundingdB parts has been severed, and that consequently, the sac will be liable to be again reduced.!® during the reduction of the contents into the abdomen unless caution be used for its pre- -B vention. The danger of this occurrence may be always obviated by the introduction-® ■ of the finger through the neck of the sac, after the contents have been reduced, for thus.* the fact of their perfect liberation may be readily ascertained.” (p. 180-85.)] 1145. If the rupture be completely reduced, which can be determined 1 by introducing the finger into the abdominal ring, its re-descent is to be I prevented by continual suitable pressure, which is to be made by propet I bandages, 'Trusses, (Bruchcria, Lat. ; Bnichband, Germ.; Brayer, Fr.,,. I upon the hernial opening.21 TRUSSES. Upon the subject of Trusses, see Camper ; in Menioires de l’Academic de Cliirurgie, vol. v. Javili.e’s Traite des Bandages Herniaires. Paris, 1786. T> B^nninobausen, Gemeinniitziger Unterricht iiber die Briiche dem Gebrauch der Bruchbander und uber das dabei zu beobachtende Verhalten. Wurzburg- 1841 • ■with one Plate. b> » Lafond, J. J., Considerations sur les Bandages Herniaires usitees jusqu’a ce iour et sur les bandages remxigrades ou nouvelles espece de brayer. Paris, 1818. * Doring, Art. Hammer, in Rust’s Handbueh der Chirurgie. Cooper Astley, above cited, p. 21. Cloquet, Art. Brayer; in Diet, de Medecine, vol. v. 1834. 1146. Trusses are either elastic or inelastic. The latter consist of a strap of fustian leather, or the like, and of a pad. When applied, they may not yield to the movements of the coverings of the belly, may therefore be very easily displaced, the intestines slip from them, and if this be pre\ ented by drawing tight, painful pressure is produced. Upon these grounds the inelastic trusses are to be altogether rejected. 1‘ Elast.lc fusses consist of, first, a spring; second, a pad; and. , [ * clrcuIar “trap. ' The spring is a narrow flat piece of well- ^e.ndj in a semicircle around the diseased side. A with woo^or ?nattaChhed in fr°nt ^ the spring and its inner surface padded ihhZ i T that ]t rnay form a soft but regular arching this pait is called the pad. At the hinder end of the spring is a circular strap, which passes round the other side of the body, and is fastened to a tith°soft leTerter ^ Pad‘ ■ The -h°le truss is to be covered troublesome pressure. meC ^ ^ lnSlde’ S° that 11 may not make anY fit/ed'to eTerVindivirlf1 ^ made 'Vth 8'reat oare in each of its parts, and be “ “p* jr s rd tl>tP- ^ atSS to 'V;,,Ci' H,U appIied’ Wl,icl' k has aij The n(?JV a T 4 « P1d'm 0,'der to suit it to every ease. that KHe ”7.krf’ r1 CmVexity must be wood, ivory or fi]K, ,0l n * ' hern,al °Penillgi pads of hard and suitable. ^If the ™,and SaJTn"> are less certain in its proper place l al°ne be to keep the truss second strap, carried between the Mghs. ‘° r"™' d,sPlaoeme"t by a case to take the sizVbvm^n^ be'sufficiently firm, it is necessary in every the seat of the rupture^ml Tn t°h * carried round the body from or for the same pTrnose u Wn . ^ °n which the truss is to lie ; which the tn B P16Ce °fflfible ™ may ^ used, with t0 r°Unt °f l',e moh must be adikd the redu^,l3s“witt ,hPPiied a<)Sr ‘!,e PtoP«- -se of the taxis for Pad be properly applied on the fe^i 16 intestines are kept up, till the ihe patient should then coimh andst 0?enin8’ and the strap be fastened. pr? ^ doit b-,f, but itsll0uld22 CURE, SPONTANEOUS AND morning; he should also have several trusses for the purpose of change. 1 lie part on which the truss rests should be frequently washed with brandy till the teguments are accustomed to its pressure. If excoriations occur the parts should be washed frequently with lead wash, whitelead should be strewed over it, and a thick piece of linen applied beneath the truss. 1150. Various diseases in the neighbourhood of the opening upon which the pressure must be made, and an imperfectly reduced rupture may prevent the use of the truss. Large ruptures are extremely difficult to reduce, and often new ruptures occur afterwards in other parts. In children the use of an elastic truss is not only acompanied with no injury, as many suppose, but it is to be preferred to the use of an inelastic one. * 1151. When an adhesion prevents the return of a rupture to such extent that part of it remains external, a truss with a hollow pad may be used ; but in very large irreducible ruptures a suspendor sufficient to enclose it, should be used to prevent the further protrusion of the intestine. In these ruptures the gradual return is effected by long-continued lying on the back, by slender diet, purging, frequently cold applications over°the rupture, and by daily repeated attempts at reduction, which has occurred to me in several cases of very large and adherent ruptures. When in large ruptures the walls of the belly are so contracted that the parts in the rupture have scarcely any room in the belly, the same treatment is indi- cated. frequently in such cases, after the reduction and the application of a truss, anxiety, oppression, pain, small pulse, and so on occur, and it becomes necessary to remove the truss, after which the symptoms, as I have observed, subside. 1152. When the intestines are properly kept up by the truss, the hernial sac gradually contracts, and at the same time a slow inflammation arises, consequent on the pressure of the truss, by which perfect adhesion of the neck of the hernial sac takes place, and thus a radical cure is effected. This commonly happens in children, frequently in adults, but never in old persons. On account of this gradual narrowing of the neck of the hernial sac, under the continued use of the truss, the latter may not be ao-ain removed if it be not believed certain that the radical cure is effected; because otherwise, in repeated protrusions of the intestines, strangulation may also arise from the contracted neck of the sac. Whilst the patient wears the truss he must avoid all violent exertion. [Cloquet considers that a hernial sac may be returned spontaneously into the belly in four different ways. First, by the contractility it possesses in common with other tissues, having a constant tendency to retract the sac upon itself, after its distension, and which is, in some cases, sufficient to produce a gentle and gradual return. “ The sac then takes a retiogiade movement to that of its formation j the peritoneum passes from the ring towards the parts it had left, that portion of this membrane, which had been drawn towards the ring without passing through it, pulls the neck in every direc- tion, which expands, turns out in some degree, disappears, and at last is effaced; the sac unfolds, and again covers the wall of the belly, near the aponeurotic opening. The neck of the sac, which was last formed, disappears first, whilst its bottom disappears last, and with great difficulty, so that the reduction is often incomplete.” (p. 74.) When a rupture has been thus reduced, the remains of the neck are sometimes observed at a little distance from the ring, in the shape of irregular sti/ymata, whitish, and more or less opaque. The peritoneum, which formed the sac, is restored to the abdominal .. wall. * * * Sometimes these sacs are so completely effaced, that no trace of them can : I be found in the peritoneum covering the ring by which they had escaped. The only indication of a rupture having existed at this spot, is a cellular, whitish, empty pouch, i arising from the aponeurotic ring.” (p. 7G.) Second, “ by the closing, the gentle and insensible contraction of the cellular tissue external to the sac. The other tunics may23 RADICAL, OF REDUCIBLE RUPTURE. concur also; but their action appears more weak, and less demonstrable. * * * In this case the peritoneum presents at the top of the ring irregular, prominent folds, analogous to those of the mucous membrane of the stomach during the contraction of its muscular coat ” (pp. 78, 9.) Third, by the displacement of the peritoneum from the abdominal wall from various causes, as in two cases of direct inguinal rupture, in which in con- sequence of retention of urine, the peritoneum covering the bladder was raised nearly to the navel—by enlargement of the womb by pregnancy, or any other cause—by adhesion of the omentum, or intestine to the hernial sac—by a large quantity of fat collecting between the peritoneum and wall of the belly—or by the dragging of another sac which has formed in the neighbourhood of the former. Fourth, by the contraction of the cremaster muscle; “ the two fleshy bundles of which act upon the sac pretty much as the two bellies of the digastric muscle effect the direct elevation of that bone.” (p. 83.)] 1153. The radical cure of reducible ruptures (especially inguinal ruptures) was attempted in ancient times in very different and in part cruel and barbarous ways, which had only their corresponding excuse in the ignorance of, or in the bad construction of trusses. Even later modes of treatment have found little favour, on account of the danger there- with connected, and because of the more perfect construction of trusses • and only of late have these objects again attracted more attention, and less dangeious methods of treatment have been proposed. All the modes of treatment in reference to the radical cure have for their object the organic C°sl?S 116 ne°k ,tlie hernial sac) or of the abdominal ring, or to effect both at once, which has been attempted by a sufficient decree of adhesive or suppurative inflammation, and thereby causing adhesion; or b\ a plug of skin healed into the abdominal ring. These may be collected together under the following heads: first, Increased pressure whilst lying constantly on the back, with, or without the simultaneous application of irritating and[contracting remedies; second, Caustics and the actual T1? e7 ’/“^Ligature of the sac, with or without cutting it off; fourth Introduction of foreign bodies into the hernial sac; fifth, Healing-in of rtdomfaafrtot 5ki"’ °r °f * P°rti°” °f “folded skin’ “‘o the H54. Increased pressure, whilst the patient lies constantly on his back heretofore employed by Fabr. Hildanus, Blegny, Winslow and others has of late been recommended by means of a common pad, (Richter and others,) with a conical linen pad, the point of which is inserted into the £n iSr3 Ziife Sfe t pad °f WAL powS ean°beSZl Tj "-itli a i!lTfi!f«|aPafat“.ll‘0Ute'Je'1 with aIum wash (Katin) (i)- or W C0"lraCt'”S herbS’ and suhcarbonate of inm.onia haveb"n mentioned which hare been |»rk, rhatany, alum,'taqtuine, xiterM S?’1”rkljtormendUa, gall nuts, oak 2£MSJ5si2k“d 10 “• <*» fe Alex- tr^chonUpni2r.ng V°" de" Leisten Und Schtnke>- (6) Essai sur ia Theorie tics Hemies et de 1^2. nmglement> et de >eur cure radicalo. l'aris, (c) Notice sur les Hemies et une nouvelle maniere de les guerir radicalement. Paris, 1827 Ilirn • , aTes nouvellcs sur la cure radicale des Edition ^^Sl?Perati0n Sttn8lante- Second24 radical cure andrian *1 and " (recommended from eaily time , , :„i sac and forming a hard hernial opening by destroying theskm and hermal *e,^ scar connected with the bone. keptso firmly upon the abdominal the cord drawn aside, the cautery .a to be keptao l 5 ,jown t0 the ring, that it burn deeply through the aim and ^ ^tic potash, bone. In the same way caus r sulphuric acid, one part of caustic arsenic or sublimate with opium, The cautery as IvdT'i riK also been applied upon the hernial sac laid bare it.; Zusammenschnurung desBruchsa ’ { : first, after the at. : Naht, Germ.) are pnidle and tying vpcInotion, encompassing nftet Lat. • Germ'.) are performedin aneedle and tying already directed reduction, encompassi g th secorad, after together both it and the BP^°J!^^^pa»ing the hernial previously laying bare tie -<■ J „ and introducing a golden thread sac and the spermatic cord with a ’;1 but the spermatic cord which can be so drawn aureum) (Bekakp, is not to be compressed, (the cJ°^fiP , spermatic cord, and cutting Franco) ; third, tying the hernial sac an^tM ^ ^ tying them both off below the ligature, or first cutty separation of the hernial (the rupture-cutter of the middle ag ),j ’ .J a leaden thread, sac from the surrounding; parte, and^ Jo , =the rojal stttch, (suit,™ ('Pare,') or closing it with tlie g r, „ DE Chatjliac, and S«,)(Npck. Fabr. AB,,tTa:eEdN treble’oiQuadruple thread. (La others,) or simple tying wit Theden and others,) m modern Dran, Freitag, Senff, Sch ^ 0f whom, in omental rupture, times Langenbeck and Iae , abdominal or femoral ring, so that the tied the exposed omentum near the abdo ^ ^ tfae walls Gf the ring, remaining part of the amentia ^ * t anci hernial sac, and treat- closed it up ; fifth, incision into* ture, with simple lint dressing ing as after the operation for strangu trugs (pETIT, Lieutaud, and li°ht pressure with a spice ‘ p tbe hernial sac, (Frei- Irb Ac,) or withtoultanMiBM^a*0™^®,.^ rf of lint tag, Mauchart, Richter,) Graefe, von Waether minivTs Mery, Arnaud, ochreger, v recommended effected in twovvays . -l. Acco a sufficiently large fold of within the abdominal ring, P'nl - • VMESOW (b) made, m a femoral S ItSS rupmrm( Aftert,f fheleft^"hffi S with corale, is to be placed somewhat finger of the lett nr , Eink Uewr . ° . yd ltnlletin tie Ilierapie. ISA. mart (n) Gcschichte dcs kiln. Institutes xu Ilalle. p,(J) The Lancet, vol. ii. 1820, P- >42- apBSein jk: w with two copper-plates.25 OF REDUCIBLE RUPTURE. beneath the hernial opening on the scrotum, and then the scrotum in front of it is to be thrust along the spermatic cord as deeply as possible into the inguinal canal. In this blind sac the finger is to remain, and the skin is to be thrust as far as possible towards the outer wall of the inguinal canal. A curved needle, with two cutting edges, and with a handle, and its eye armed with a double thread, is then to be introduced, on the palmar surface of the forefinger, to the bottom of the ensheathing, and whilst the handle of the needle is depressed, the needle itself, its convex surface resting on the palmar surface of the finger, is to be thrust, whilst an assistant presses the external skin against its point, from behind, forwards through the front of the ensheathed part of the scrotum, and the front wall of the inguinal canal, so that the needle projects some lines above the inguinal ring. The one end of the thread is now to be drawn out, and given to an assistant, the left finger still remaining in the ensheathing. The needle, in the eye of which the other end of the thread remains, Is now again to be passed upon the finger, at some lines’ distance from the former stitch, thrust through externally, and the thread withdrawn from it. After the removal of the needle, the threads are to be divided, and a cylinder of plaster placed between them, upon which they are to be tied, and the ensheathed part of the scrotum is firmly retained in its place If the entrance and canal of the rupture be much enlarged, two other stitches must be applied; but in general, one is sufficient. The sac formed by the ensheathed skin, is to be then pencilled with caustic liquor ammonice, to excite inflammation, the part operated on covered with a pad, spread with cerate, and covered with a compress, and the patient put to bed in such position, that the rump and the head are somewhat raised and the thighs drawn up. In all cases phlegmon follows, which spreads oyer the whole extent of the stitches, and runs into suppuration, the pus discharges itself through the stitches, along the threads, which, at the same time, also act as guides to it. If the adhesion have taken place in from three to five days, the stitches may be removed. Towards the fitteenth or twentieth day, the suppuration ceases, the ensheathed skin forms a plug, which externally appears like a swelling, but gradually subsides. The patient must, for four weeks, observe the supine posture7 and the treatment must be conducted according to the inflammatory WchlCl\may corae,on- Signokoni (a) thrusts up the skin, like afe,S^iaigei: int° 6 SaC °f the rupture’ and fixes ]t by means of a female catheter, then pierces it with three long hare-lip needles four The needle1™111 °-her’ “•' twists around each an Shaped thread, ffirust un fnto'tl ^ “ T ^ f dayS' WdTZEa <*) ^ains the skin nar f w ,i l thein8ymal cunal, by means of a cylinder, on the under canal I f a plate which fits the outer surface of the inguinal waif afl h™ m fT' thr0U^ the uPper V* of the cylinder, out- , and brought out by an opening of the external plate. Proposal, according to the experiment with one wounfrnd^he orfpnef^^ mouth of the sac were expanded followed; this treatment micht akn^nnlS3f tirust *nt° the helly, the radical cure also as the reduction of the Lirl l PP ^ t0 r'0 attainmcnt of the radical cure, as well [(1) BmvNSBv Coorr *'¥ 'dccoJd™S to Hummf.i. and Stephens. Pono,a"aean0 Medic. do Bologna, 1836 Dec Frobivp s neue Notizen, vol. ii. p. 070 ’ pt^ Organon fiir (liegesammte Heilkunde, vol. i (.c) Guy's Hospital KeporU.Oct., 1810,p. 270-75.26 RADICAL CURE OF Wished belly‘ ^ fourtl1 day> suppuration having been freely esta- ’ e ^feature was removed, but the pressure was continued. On the fifth dav there appeared a degree of fulness about the margin of the opening as if a port on of the inverted skin. had descended, but without any descent Tthe in^tine and X onnr'rSS ^ s,jellmS ab°ut the 1DSuiual canal still led to the reasonable hope that the operation would prove successful. After some days, as the tenderness diminished ie continuer wTedmtade‘d °“ |he twenty-four* day. a weak truss was applied, and ne continued in bed ten days longer, after which time however he would not be slight return Srup Je'f11 ab°Ut’ ^ ^ after left the h°SpiUl1- But he had a 1 !,58‘ most modern practices which may be placed next the former, are those of Bonnet, Mayor, and Beemas. Bonnet (a) employed the same treatment as for varicocele, introducing needles upon the hernial sac, and allowing them to remain. The rupture having been reduced, the scrotum is to be grasped with the left hand as close as possible to the abdominal ring, and the spermatic cord brought into the circle formed by the thumb and forefinger of this hand; a pin with a piece of cork on its head, is to be thrust, close to the suspensory igament of the penis, from the point of the finger nearest it, from behind and above, forwards and downwards, through the integuments and the hernial sac. A second piece of cork is to be fixed on the projecting point and brought near the first piece, so that the intermediate soft parts are easily compressed ; and in order to keep the second piece of cork in its place, the point of the pin is bent down. The spermatic cord is to be placed between this pin and the tip of the thumb and forefinger of the left hand, and a second pin is then introduced six lines distant externally from the first pin, parallel to it, and fastened in the same way. If the spermatic cord have been divided by the pressure of the intestine, into its several parts, a third pin must be passed, six lines from the second, so that the other parts of the cord may be jdaced between the second and third pins. Usually, about the fourth day, pain and inflammation come on; but the pins are not to be removed till the inflammation has acquired a certain degree of intensity, and the hindmost piece of cork has excited ulceration of the skin, which occurs about the sixth, or even at the twelfth day. By this proceeding, not merely is the hernial sac, but also the abdominal rino- closed, and united with the neighbouring parts by the effused lymph. Mayor (b) has modified this practice, by forming at the abdominal ring a longitudinal fold oj skin varying in size according to the bulk of the rupture and the width of the abdominal ring, to the middle of which corresponds a line drawn over the middle of the hernial swelling; through the base of this fold of skin, held up by the fingers, a needle, armed with a double thread, is to be passed, the ends of which being separated on each side, are to be tied on a piece of bougie, or on a piece of cotton, or of sponge properly tied together. The number of stitches is determined by the size of the fold. In children the first stitcli is to be made over the' middle of the abdominal ring, at other times, the stitches may be commenced where you please. If the abdominal ring be wide, and the other circum- stances unfavourable for contraction and keeping up the rupture, it is then necessary to bring the stitches nearer, and to increase the size of the substances which are held together by the threads. In slight cases, and with quiet, intelligent patients, no bandaging is used ; slight compression («) Journal des Connnissanccs Medico-cUirurgi call's, 1830, July.—Gazette Medicate, 1830. Pi.achktsky, F., Ueberdie BoNNKT'sche Radical operation der Ilernien nobst 8 Krankheitafillen ; in Beitragen zur gesamraten Natur und Heil- wissencliaft herausgeg. von Werteswkbeb, vol. vi. pt. i. (fc) Sur la cure radicate des Hernies. Paris, 1836.27 REDUCIBLE RUPTURE. upon a thick layer of wool by means of a fitting truss, or a neckerchief fastened upon the hip, is always requisite, especially in children and restless patients, and in large ruptures which are with difficulty kept up. The threads may be removed from the sixth to the ninth day, and a truss must be worn for a shorter or longer time afterwards. 1159. Belmas (a) attempts to effect merely adhesive inflammation, by introducing goldbeater’s-skin into the hernial sac, which he at first passed in, as an empty, dry bladder, by an incision through the sac, and then inflated it; butof late he has pursued thefollowing plan:—After the rupture is completely returned, the sac and its coverings are to be raised with the fingers of the left hand in one fold, in front of and parallel with the sper- matic cord, and through its middle, above the abdominal ring, a trocar- like instrument, divisible in the middle, is to be thrust. The operator now allows the hernial sac to slip from between his fingers, so that the fold is formed by the skin alone. An assistant holds this fold, and whilst the hernial sac is fixed by the thumb and forefinger, applied above and below the instrument, the latter is to be thrust forward till the union of the two canals corresponds to the interspace between the walls of the hernial sac. By the peculiar mechanism of the instrument the two canulas, after the removal of the trocar-points, are drawn asunder, and both walls of the hernial sac separated. The assistant lets go the fold of skin, grasps the canula corresponding to the trocar-point, whilst the operator holds the other canula, and through its aperture introduces with a probe four or five thin cylinders of jelly covered with goldbeater’s-skin, in various directions, into the neck of the hernial sac. The canulas are then removed, and a truss is put on, the pad of which acts where the cylinders of jelly are placed and is to be worn at least for four months, constantly. The patient may after the operation follow his business. The cylinders of jelly are soon absorbed. The goldbeater’s-skin resists absorption longer) and excites slowly in the hernial sac an adhesive inflammation, which is confined to the parts in immediate connexion with the foreign bodies. UD3r,?;0Tp t0 Tif auimal fluid’ thePatient?s bl00d> the hernial sac. Upon the Radical Cure of Rupture, compare also an, Dissert, de novo hernias inguinales curandi methodo. Berol., 1813 PEcroT™’ DlSS' de hemiiS mobilibus radicitus sanandis. Landishut,’ 1819. -25 SSsrsi233sar^SEi^ssp,*o! est de cnr*he™*- Hesselbach, A. K Die Lehre von den Eingeweidebriichen, vol. ii. p. 214. These de co’ncours pYaS^ S.TS if*" des Heraies i runhn-o 4rhe decifon a.s t0 the performance of the radical cure for reducible St bVISt ? °fni,the-different m0deS °f treatment ^ Pai'^eular) vorv ?,U1C.ed by the following circumstances. In consequence of the ^ “"Str"Ct.i0" °f trUSSeS0f 7—X neceLt Quite anothm o • ! operation is, in comparison with former times, its proper place"and^ *herebJ ev<jry r<;ducible rupture can be retained in truss All the m "l f ^ be effected the P™Per wearing of a especially chuteririnff8 °t .°peratl°n mentioned are more or less dangerous, l) Rechlhes! g’ y g,and Stltch,no UP the hernial sac, and the ^Veu«MamiTaii0n*^dCT fcs^MvItrs l/rff-h.'als MiUel -/.nr radicalen Heilung <ler l'ari. 9, “a"’ 1829—Clinique*desliopitaux do knn I ’ 1.nJoufnal filr Chlrurgie und Angenheil- pt - * ‘**—4RADICAL CURE OF 28 introduction of tents, as the inflammation thereby excited quickly spreads over the whole of the 'peritoneum, and the intestines. Therefore, also, many of the earlier adherents to this or that practice, have, after unfortunate results, given them up entirely ; and although some, for instance, Kern, have always observed fortunate results, and only one case terminate fatally, yet these assertions are too greatly opposed to the experience of others, to enable us to yield them entire belief. All the modes of treatment, at the same time, in reference to their permanent consequences, are uncertain, and the statements of the cures are confined principally to immediately after the operation. Although the external abdominal ring and a part of the neck of the hernial sac be loosed, there remains (in external or oblique inguinal rupture) the opening of the internal abdominal ring into which the intestines again enter, and by gradual subsequent absorption of the effused plastic mass, and the thinning of the scar resulting therefrom, the rupture enlarges outwardly. In many cases, if the enlargement of the opening out of which the vessels of the testicles and thighs protrude, be the consequence of a bad, lymphatic constitution, apertures are formed in other parts of the belly, and if the rupture be kept up at one part, it will be seen to project at some other part. In gouty, otherwise healthy subjects, in a small rupture of not long continuance, if the sac be not thickened and not united to the neighbouring parts, the result may be at first favourable. Increased pressure, with the supine posture, is of all treatment the least dangerous, and may be attempted in all cases, although even herewith, severe inflam- mation and gangrene (Manget, Richter) and even death (Wilmer, Schmucker) have been observed. As to this mode of treatment, the methods of Gerdy, Bedmas, and Mayor, are arranged according to their less danger. Gerdy has up to the present time had the greatest success; I have, however, seen a recurrence of the disease, and according to Rreschet (a), the results have in several instances been unfortunate. If, as in old ruptures where the sac adheres to the aponeurotic opening, (the abdominal and femoral ring,) and consequently a mere inthrusting of the skin be not possible, the hernial sac be thrust in and held with loops, dangerous inflammation may easily occur; and this is still more likely to occur, if, as in Bonnet’s practice, be adopted. In this respect Mayor’s treatment is least attractive. I consider as some of the indications for the so-called radical cure those reducible ruptures, which even in the above- mentioned supine posture, with the application of a truss, cannot be certainly kept up, especially in young persons, Gerdy’s or Mayor’s treatment is the most proper; but a truss must always be worn subse- quently. The possibility of an unsuccessful, and the probability of a not permanent result must not be withheld from the patient’s knowledge. The patient’s wish to be cured radically, at all hazards, and to get rid of the use of the truss must not, according to the hitherto noticed results, determine the Surgeon to operate. Opinions in reference to the value of the radical operation for reducible rupture, are in modern times much divided, many rejecting it as dangerous and ineffectual. (Boyer, Dupuytren, Lawrence, and others,) and it has been attempted to be effected by continued pressure alone (Richter, Langenbeck, Zang.) Few have allowed its general employment (Kern, von Graefe.) Some confine it to certain cases (Schreger, Von Walther, and others.) Schreger especially lays down the following indica- tions: i. To remove certain local conditions and to render the application of a truss possible, for instance, in the complication of inguinal rupture with hydrocele, and indeed (n) Journal vonGkaefe und vmn Wai.thkb, vol. xxii. pt. iv. p. 657.REDUCIBLE RUPTURE. 2° {u) Iruitc des Maladies Chimrgicales, vol. ii. in a common hernial sac; in young subjects, with large ruptures, which cannot be properly kept in their place by any truss; in partial adhesions between the protruded parts and the hernial sac, or the testicle in congenital rupture. 2. In very fat or thin persons in whom the truss always shifts, for the purpose of restricting by the operation, the protrusion of the rupture, and thereby to strengthen the effect of the truss. 3. When scarcely any truss will fit; for instance, in lame persons, or if the testicle lie completely in the groin. 4. Questionable femoral ruptures, because in these there is little benefit from insecure application of the truss, and the danger being greater in existing strangu- lation. But in all these cases, the rupture can be kept up by the proper construction of the truss, and its application in the supine posture. If hydrocele exist at the same time, repeated puncturiug auswers the purpose better (a). [English Surgeons have rarely employed either of the methods proposed for the radical cure of ruptures, except the constant application of a truss, which, however, is admitted to he rarely successful, except in young persons and very recent ruptures. Asti.f.y Cooper removed the entire sac in a case of femoral rupture, and “ passed stitches through its mouth, so as to bring the edges into perfect contact. * * * On the sixth day the ligatures came away, and the wound was healed on the tenth. A month afterwards I saw the woman,” says he, “ and was surprised to find that another hernia had formed on the same spot, which was already as large as that for which the operation was performed. * * * It appears, therefore, that the removal of the sac will not prevent a return of the disease; and, indeed, when it is recollected that the aperture from the abdomen continues of the same size after, as before the operation, and that the peritoneum will still remain the only obstacle to the descent of the intestine; it does not appear probable that this highly extensible membrane should succeed in preventing a return of the same hernia, the just formation of which it was unable to resist.” (p. 62.) Astley Cooper objects to the plan of making a ligature round the mouth of the hernial sac, not only that its object, gradually to cut away the sac, is inefficient, as shown in the’ preceding observation, but also because “ it cannot even be securely done ; for first the spermatic cord is often divided by the sac, so that one part of it passes behindhand’ t,h“ott!er.befo,'c> or °“ tbe side of the sac. When this happens, it would be extremely difficult, if not impossible to conduct the operation in such manner as to avoid injuring parts which should never be touched. Secondly, this operation is founded on mistaken ideas of the hernial sac; for a ligature applied as proposed, at the abdominal ring, if it cut through the sac, must leave a hernia above it, with a sac still open as before; and the ligature cannot be employed to the part of the sac lying above the ring, without splitting up the tendon of the external oblique muscle, which would take off so much ot the natural support of the parts, as almost certainly to allow of a future descent. Iniraly, the danger of the operation is a principal objection. A ligature applied around a part of the peritoneum must inflame it; and as this membrane is continued wi hout interruption along the sac into the cavity of the abdomen, the inflammation will follow the same course, and expose the patient’s life to hazard.” (p. 62.) In support of SvJfpteri°nJeCu0n’POOP,ER rfTs t0 Petit’s (*) experience. “ I opened the tumour,” says the latter, “and replaced the omentum; I then detached the sac, and tied it as I had seen done, and dressed my patient. In two hours time I was much surprised at T h^Vng f .m**saSe that great pain over the whole belly, and severe gripings and£on™° 'e Pat,e'lt- f:lncy.ng that the intestine might have slipped into the ring found^n raT ated b?\w,hen *he dressings were taken off, and nothing was cu tl l V :.1 COnC,ud,ed that the mischief had been caused by tying the sac. I ’f turf. and removed it, and dressed the parts simply ; the symptoms were I W V rehe,ved’ ??d ceased entirely in an hour. This is not the only observation lieaturp^'f t6°n ^ subject,; a11 1 have seen has confirmed me in the opinion, that the membrane llT1 °r m °ther termS’ °f the Pcritolleitm, since the sac is formed by that fine ™c^no^donht S ?y,!nP ? very ’ke those caused by strangulation of the ffites- that those whom I have seen perish after the employment of the fp 339 ) h dlL‘d fr°m lnflammation of the belly, caused by tying the sac.” thh^A0™ t0 thG tamC conelusion in regard to the proposed operations for noVuS SdSn^-Tl « belieV?’’’ !ayS he’ “ that W one ofthe methods runtrre r.-oJ o A0 s calculated to attain the proposed object. Why does the protrusion, anYff stM furtherwr- k^fiT ri.nS.has been enlarged by the previous stricture This state of t! eakened by the incision necessary for removing the crare. this state of the tendinous openings would not be altered by closing the ( > Par° HMSELBAeH’ Firr^W1?’ ?• 77ni 5 in Journal,March. 184130 TREATMENT OF STRANGULATED mouth of the sac, even if we could accomplish that object. We must reject the ligature on account of the danger inseparable from its employment, and we have no sufficient reason for placing confidence in scarification of the sac or in its removal by dissection. In many instances these latter methods would be neither easy nor free from danger. Hence we account for the circumstance that all these various methods have become completely obsolete.” (p. 321.)] 1161. The treatment of strangulated rupture must be directed according to the different character and severity of the symptoms; in reference to which, suitable remedies must be employed with due circumspection and choice; too violent attempts, and especially too frequent changes, and again, new experiments which have in so great number been proposed and boasted of, are to be avoided. But too frequent is the course of strangulation hastened by improper treatment, and the patient s condition rendered worse. The more acute the inflammation, the more dangerous is. it. 1162. Inflammatory strangulation requires blood-letting, especially if the symptoms be severe, if the patient be strong, the rupture and the belly very painful. Small pulse, cold limbs, pale countenance, must not prevent blood-letting, as these are the peculiar symptoms of violent inflammation of the belly. The earlier bleeding is performed, and the more blood is taken at once, even till fainting is produced, the better is its effect. Leeches may also be applied about the i-egion of the rupture, and .because they usually here produce an erysipelatous inflammation of the skin, they maybe applied about the rectum, (Birago,) (a.) and cold fomentations, at the same time upon the hernial sac or cold sprinklings to the rupture. If the rupture be very tense and painful to the touch, it must be attempted by these means first to produce a favourable change, geneial and local relaxation, before the taxis is employed, which must be done in the most dexterous manner, according to the above-described rules. If the rupture be less painful, we may commence the treatment with the taxis, and if this be not successful, the above treatment must precede subsequent attempts with the taxis. All internal remedies, especially purging, are in this strangulation hurtful ; even calomel, which has been recommended by many, (Rust, Seiler, and others,) I have always noticed as having only an injurious effect. The patient must merely take mild drinks, for example, almond milk, gum water, and the like, in small quantities. Clysters in severe inflammation, merely soothing, with the addition of castor oil, and in diminished inflammation, of infusion of tobacco or tobacco juice, are extremely efficient. Tobacco clysters are not to be considered as irritants, but as narcotics, and the emDlovment of belladonna or hyoscgamus are similarly circumstanced, only the opera- tion of the tobacco is less daugerous; from it ensue a disposition to nausea, to fell down faintness, slow pulse, and diminution of the tension ot the rupture. 1 he effort of The tobacco juice and infusion is similar, but the tobacco-ju.ee clysters are very troublesome, the necessary preparations for which are not always at hand For the infusion, from half a drachm to a drachm of tobacco is used in from twelve to sixteen ounces of water, for two clysters. When injurious effects have been observed, the ^UrTolmccoClysters are very uncertain, and have been occasionally very dangerous remedies- as the strength of the infusion varies considerably according to the freshness anT goodness of he tobacco leaves, of which it is scarcely possible to judge. The use of tobacco clysters, which was formerly much urged by Asti.ey Cooper in cases of ctrinmilated rupture, is now much less practised than formerly; indeed I have not kn0Wn it used at St. Thomas’s either by my colleagues or myself for many years. («G Compemlio di Osscrvar.ioni clinichc aul van- caustiea applicate in ^e^ .nalattie di carattere taLwiodelleAliLmatc applicate alt'Ano nolle crn.e l.nfatico. Milano, 1821. Svo. inguinale et addominali incarcerate, e sulla potassaRUPTURE.—TAXIS. 31 We prefer, in the event of the failure of the taxis, after warm bath and quick full, bleeding, at once to resort to the operation, considering it the most safe practice.—J. F. S. ] 1163. If the symptoms be less severe, and if complicated with spasm, warm bathing, rubbing in volatile ointments, with opium or oil of hen- bane upon the belly, tobacco clysters, cold applications upon the rupture, and in powerful persons, a large bleeding in a very hot bath, are most efficient remedies, after which sudden relaxation follows, and the reduction is effected. Here also internal remedies are ordinarily hurtful, as they increase or excite vomiting, as purgatives, with whatever addition, ipeca- cuanha in repeated doses, and so on. A simple emulsion with aqua lauro- cerasi is, among these, the most proper. The taxis must here also be at first attempted, and if it do not succeed, must be repeated after the remedies mentioned. 1164. In Chronic Strangulation, when, from collection of stools, but without any inflammatory symptoms or vomiting, or when these, though rarely, are present, stimulating clysters of vinegar and water, soap and water, solution of salts with castor oil, solution of tartar emetic, infu- sion of senna, tobacco clysters, cold applications upon the rupture, and internally purgatives, in very chronic cases calomel alone, or with opium and colocynth extract, (A. Cooper,) even with jalap or croton oil, (von Waltiier,) have been directed. But when vomiting has set in, the latter- remedies always render the patient’s condition worse. With the taxis it must always be attempted to compress the rupture, in order to return part ot the co.lected stool. When inflammatory symptoms have come on, the above-mentioned treatment must be employed in correspondence with PirPiimeto nooc A 1165. The taxis must be employed in strangulated, in the same way as in reducible rupture The patient, after having emptied his bladder, must lie in such posture that the seat of rupture be raised, and the walls of the SdPZeiiy !ngral and femoral ™Ptui'es with the rump n^d, the chest bent slightly forwards, and the thighs drawn up towards fie S’ b? n°Af Parated each other. The practitioner stands on W ; °f, he ? !ent’ g,rasps the hernial swelling with the fingers mouth $ 2 ’ aDd,pkc,eS the fin&ers of the ]eft in the region of°the toM e a i tl3! endeavours, by alternately pressing the rupture In°small’ f"r L T ? GSCaPe’ to Press back into the belly, small, lor instance, femoral and umbilical ruptures the fmo-ers of hnth WiZh ruT11'6" a?rl ^ SWelli"S to'com^refs ancf Srnl knSVeJween Z T m°Ved from oa« ^e to the other, Violent pressure is to b^KoideT'be 6 pi'eSSUre only. gradually increased, mation, and even runtnre nf i),0L because sevei’e pain, increased inflam- and the taxis must not he t l )0vve s. or op tlie hernial sac may ensue, bered, that without min « ‘ ° i°n^ contlnued ; but it must also be remem- These mart ^ strangulated rupture can be reduced, and in chiJS^“^n“ntlnufd f°r from a <P‘arter to half an hour, should endeavour to withZw T" and with greater force. We forbid all effort and strain in- If the^ ^ TBnt'°n t0 STf °bject’ and must be left quiet in the same ™ be ^successful, the patient bams; and it must be considered^0'1’ "T * the thi°hs suPPorted in the further remedies are to be emnlo ’ ,lccordlng to the circumstances, what '■axis should be repeated. NnfS’ &nd wl!et.he.r the attempts with the >g 13 more injurious than excessive vio-32 SYMPTOMS OF STRANGULATION lence and rough handling. I have observed not unfrequently, that by keeping quiet, after the most careful attempts at reduction have failed, the rupture returns either of its own accord, or with a slight assistance on the part of the patient. 1166. If the reduction succeed, the symptoms usually soon cease, and relief of the bowels ensues either of themselves or by the use of purgatives and clysters (1). If the inflammatory symptoms continue, they require corresponding treatment. The abdominal ring should always be examined with the finger, in order to ascertain that no part of the rupture remain in it, as may be the case, especially in external inguinal ruptures, in which I have several times observed, after a tolerably bulky, and in one case, even very large rupture, had returned, and the external ring was free, that there was strangulation of a small portion of intestine at the inner ring, which rendered the operation necessary. But if under the treatment prescribed there be no satisfactory change in the rupture, but on the contrary, it become more hard and painful, the belly tense, and the vomiting more frequent, neither the use of other remedies, nor attempts with the taxis are to be persisted in, but the operation must be had recourse to. The treatment proposed for strangulated rupture, in reference to the employment of remedies internally and externally, and of the taxis is very various. Although these several modes of treatment may be grounded on many good results, the above- described method must be considered most preferable, if it be employed with discretion and proper circumspection. The position of the patient under the taxis, with his feet or knees upon a person s shoulders; the vertical position of the body, in order thereby to effect the return of the intestines through their proper tendons, and the application of ice poultices upon the rupture Ribes) (a), with the pelvis raised and the head depressed; the posture upon the opposite side, with the thigh drawn up on the affected side (Hey) ; even the position on the knees and elbows. Continued pressure on the rupture with a weight or bladder of quicksilver of from two to five pounds ; or by the patient’s hand. Shaking the whole body by driving in a wheel-barrow (Preiss); injection of air into the rectum, and drawing it off with a clyster-pipe. The introduction of a thick elastic tube through the rectum into the sigmoid flexure of the colon, after O’Beiern’s manner {It), who con- siders the collection of the intestinal gases and the spasmodic closing of the rectum as the most common cause of strangulation. The application of dry cupping-glasses about the hernial swelling, or of a glass bell, out of which the air may be pumped by some strokes of an air-pump, till the rupture is as high again, after which it either returns • of itself, or is easily reduced with the taxis (c). Clysters of hyoscyamus and bella- donna ; a mass of belladonna ointment smeared over the interior of the rectum; or a bougie smeared with extract of opium and of hyoscyamus, of each two grains, passed" into the urethra (Ribieri. Guerin). Purgatives of all kinds; rubbing of croton oil on the belly; galvanism (rf); clysters of lead wash (Nesiber, Rennerth, Preiss); tartar emetic. (Church) ; muriate of morphia (Bell.) [(1) It is perfectly true, that in general after reduction the symptoms of strangulation I subside ; but now and then they do not, which may depend upon the damaged condition of the bowel, or simply on the existence of peritonitis. Instances of the latter are not j very uncommon, and can scarcely be distinguished from the symptoms of strangulation, except by the absence of the hernial swelling. Of the former I had an example under my care in 18-U), which was a source of great anxiety, and terminated fatally. Case.—J. S., aged seventeen years, ruptured himself on the right side whilst lifting hampers into a cart in the afternoon of Nov. 30, and immediately observed in the scrotum a swelling as large and as long at his thumb. Half an hour after he began to vomit, and continued to do so through the night. On the following morning the taxis was unsuccessfully employed, and afterwards? (<t) Gazette Medicate, July, 1833. (i) Dublin Jour, of Medical Science, Sept. 1838. ’c) Huaf, De usu Anllito pneumatic® in arte \ <c medica. (iardae, 1818.—Kohler; in Hecker lit. Annalen, 1835, April. (d) Archives Generates de Medecine. 18-6.33 NOT ALWAYS CEASING AFTER REDUCTION, a few leeches; some medicine was given, which was rejected; he continued vomiting during the day, had not any relief from the bowels, and suffered pain in his belly? Next morning the rupture was reduced and a truss applied, but removed two hours after, as it was too large. During the day he was relieved of the pain, but vomiting occurred five or six times, and especially on attempting to take anything into his stomach. Towards 8 p.m. the swelling reappeared, about half the former size- the vomiting became more frequent, and the pain in his belly increased. Dec. 3, 2 a.m.—He was bled nearly to fainting, and the rupture returned ■ a cold mixture in a bladder was applied (for what reason did not appear) to the region of the swelling, and replaced continually as it became warm. The vomiting, constipation and pain continuing, he was brought to the hospital at ipast 3 p.m.—He was immediately put in the warm bath, where I examined him but even when standing up could only observe a slight fulness in the right groin’ probably from the leeches, and very deeply a small indistinct swelling not exceeding the sl.“of, a sma11 bean> between the abdominal rings ; it neither dilated on coughing nor yielded to pressure. I could pass my finger readily into the external ring. His bellv was full and tympanitic, and he complained of pain and tenderness specially about the hypogastric region. 1 he pulse was small and quick; but he had not anvanxietv of countenance. I could not feel satisfied of the existence of a rupture, and therefore ordered five grains of calomel and an injection of infusion of senna and salts, which hZielSy ’ “ mJeCtl0n castor oil in the course of the evening returned 11 p.m. 1 made another careful examination, in consultation with my friend Cali wat, and I thought I felt a slight gurgling, but very doubtful; it Juki not bffelt if “j ancl both were satisfied that the swelling was merely the spermatic cord We therefore ordered a gram of calomel, and half a grain of opium every W with a mTr lnjectl0a immediately; and thirty leeches to the belly, with subsequent fomentations, considering his attack to be peritoneal and enteritic 7 sequent JJec. 4. The bowels continued obstinately costive throughout the whole day except *>?h?>™. rr producing only a small thin motion, the second dose ™ g “en 1^“ “* T"' "d ™”i,ed - **3 as* ,Uiet'"'i h0urs ««* b»ad and is Iheoxfui; "d SersScdi« tjr r*shmnk—«-m. b„, he AteXt s sfSPr ™ application of the »„S„„ T T" Soon after the continued frequentl} till evening, when I ordered aCJ~Sme!llng t!uid recurred, and excess of alkali, but without benefit Ji*id “ efferyescing mixture, with large light and following day, not being at Jl ch JkeTbv'J COnti.nued thr°«gb the whole icid, with compound spirits of tCked by two minim doses of hydrocyanic ^ ** Untouched >hor every four hou^U. a Varge'lHist'eTovL™lbdr™*’T'**1 ?VC grains of «»n- ni8. • No motion since noon yesterday- ,ij'hole be.Uy> and.a coiocynth injection. x.t°C ;u eraiQ of so,id t xza taring hid any reUef from lire “ ’0lnil slnce tits last report, and not VOL. II, DOPERATION FOR 34 Examination.—After raising the tendon of the external oblique muscle from the inguinal canal, the edge of the internal oblique was seen uplifted by a small dark- ' coloured tumour about the size of a hazel nut, which was evidently a hernial sac and contained dark-coloured fluid. The internal oblique and the transverse muscles were then carefully divided up to the internal ring, to which the sac was easily traced, and the" latter having been carefully opened about its middle, about a drachm of serum escaped. The sac was cut up to the internal ring, through which a very small knuckle of dark- coloured but shining intestine protruded. The belly was next opened; it contained no fluid, and little apppearance of inflammation, except a thin film of adhesive matter slightly gluing together the intestines in the right iliac pit. The abdominal muscles having been completely turned down, about eight inches of very dark-coloured yellowish green intestines were exposed, distended immediately above the portion of gut in the mouth of the sac, with thin faeculent matter like his last stool; an inch of the bowel below the sac’s mouth was of the same dark colour, and suddenly terminated by a distinct mark of strangulation, upon which, beneath the peritoneum, fibrin had been poured out. Below this point the gut was healthy but contracted. The portion of intestine in the sac was about two-thirds of its tube, the part nearest the mesentery, being quite above the internal ring. In examining further, this protruded piece of gut dropped out, and there was not found upon it the slightest mark or appearance of strangulation. From this examination, I presume, that the strangulated bowel had been returned by the medical man who last saw him; that the strangulation had been sufficiently long to destroy the vitality of the intestine, which had therefore never recovered itself; that the portion of intestine found in the mouth of the sac, had been forced in by the vomiting but that it had never been strangulated nor incarcerated, nor had probably been there constantly, through the course of the disease, though it might have been occasionally, by the effort of vomiting; and that the costiveness depended not on the tube of the bowel being impervious, but on its death having destroyed its functions, and that the stools passed were merely forced by their quantity through the dead intestine.—J. F. S.] 1167. The decision as to the proper time for the operation, especially depends on the kind of strangulation, on its severity and duration, on the constitution of the patient, and on the effects which the previous remedies had produced (1). In inflammatory strangulation, in small ruptures, which arise suddenly from external violence, or in those where the strangulation is at the mouth of the sac, {par. 1135,) in young vigorous persons, the operation must not be delayed; if by the preceding treatment reduction have not been effected, or if the painfulness of the rupture will permit no further attempt at reduction. It is often necessary within the first eight or twelve hours. In such cases can the advice of Kern and "YVatt- mann be alone applicable, not uselessly to waste time by attempting relief with external and internal remedies, but immediately to employ the only helpful remedy ; to wit, cutting into the rupture. In spasmodic and chronic strangulation, the operation may be delayed ; very frequently repeated attempts at reduction should, however, be avoided, and after the. most powerful remedies have been employed, it is better to resort earlier to the operation, than by further delaying it to put the patient’s life in greater' danger. But the operation is in these cases specially indicated, if an inflammatory condition be superadded, especially in old persons. In general, the longer the operation is delayed, the more unsatisfactory is* the prognosis, as the danger is less from the operation itself, if properly' conducted, than from the degree of inflammation and the circumstances? thereon depending. f(T) The invariable rule in all cases of rupture in which symptoms of strangulation* exist be they slight or severe, if the taxis, after warm bath and bleeding have been unsuccessful, is without loss of time to proceed to the operation, as the most safe tor patient. For the damaged state of the intestine is frequently not indicated by conre-< sponding severity of symptoms, as is well known to every one who has often operate* t35 STRANGULATED RUPTURE. in strangulated rupture Every hour, therefore, which defers the operation'adds to the patients danger; on which account we cannot operate too early, when satisfied that strangulation cannot be relieved without. Occasionally it happens that patients will not submit to an operation for strangulated rupture, and nothing then remains but to persist in the employment of one or other of those remedies which have been proposed. The tobacco clyster is now therefore per- missible, and should be resorted to, and the continued application of ice poultice Gee a freeZm? mifure- consisting of hydrochlorate of ammonia and , nl u )Sh h\fiVe ounces °,r each with a pint of water,) in a bladder upon the swell- ing, which sometimes succeeds; but the condition of the skin should be attended to uring its use, as it may become frost-bitten, and though the rupture may be reduced the skin may slough, which happened to a patient of the elder Cline. Sometimes the natient sh,Z“?rhheld con®entfor many hoursJ being at last worn out by the vomiting will submit to an operation ; the question then comes, should it be performed under unfavour- Sh°uld alwa>'S be Performed, if the patient be not in \wticulo On Strangulated Rupture in particular, the following writers maybe consulted Zimmermann, Beobactungen der beruhmtesten Wundarzte neuerer Zeit zur Erlnii terung der sichersten Behandlungsarten eingeklemmter Briiche. Leipzig 183? fol Stephens, Treatise on Obstructed and Inflamed Hernia. London 18^9 -L^vjiiuuii, lojy. voL xxix pfeiri. rati0nelle Bebandlung eingeklemmter Briiche; in his Magazin, LlS2fc Manualhulfe bei eingeklemmten stem68' Z TLratl0n-f°r s^ranolllated rupture proceeds by the following S tToTi °t ?e Skin;, The exPos«re and openinf minal ring; fourth, The reUir^ofle inteTtSe^ ^ °r °f abd°‘ seat ofVtheS!nnt0 the-^erati0"’ the urinaiT bladder should be emptied the Wy properly re,axaedT^rupoa„\t%rdT„fna‘ SSJ S’fa"d rest on and be supported by a stool * ’ &t the feet may «r^vLTfoId*“el7e„rofhwhti U t0 into a through with a bistourv (A) Hv 1C 1 1S §lven to an assistant, and cut into the angle of toe wound toe in^ of a «™"ed director introduced downwards, so that it extend beyond toe” ^ 6nlar°ed ,uP"'ards and if the tension of the skin do not nI ■ +i & „sweblno ln both directions (2), must be made freely the skin formatlon of afold, the incision finger of the left hand A, .Y g dl'a'Vn aSlde by the thumb and fore- 4 be torn, the incLn throng 5* W|th°Ut sacs> or «* the sac -he director used as much as poSblt ^ ^ Cautiously ™de, and [•ecoinmendedf or pierdrj ft withY tbfstouPr Ur6’ Td ei1?ier cutting through it, as here dangerous practice; for it cannot >n' ° J’ a“d C"ttlnS out> is> I think, bad and ovenngs of the sac are, or indeed whether tt ° ascertamecl what the thickness of the ln not v/ry dextrous hands the s ic mav be )e any,0ther than the skin, and there- his mode of commencing the operation y be opened at once, and the gut injured ’tSKOSS »devoid »*4~«- id improper andTntirl. , ,nU!on may seem (2) In inguinal, or rather in scroTafrunf°°d•x6-®*?11 for i,s performance, hould not extend below the bottom ofVlZ ’ ls.better tluit the cut made ,Lr0-°m ln the operation is notwnntJ lt should terminate an inclTabovek’ , uiuHLC, IS better that the cut made lengthways mcntiy deep, that it will commonly be necessary to36 OPERATION FOR enlarge the external wound after the sac has been opened, and before the division of the stricture can be made. . , . , In femoral, umbilical, and other ruptures, it is not needful to extend the cu beyond the swelling, because the flaps usually made either by the J. or ciucial cut, afford ample space for the continuauce of the operation. J. F. S.J 1170. The exposure of the sac requires care, as the coverings are very different, and in old ruptures considerably degenerated. At the part where protected from any other injury, or where fluctuation is most distinct from the fluid contained in the sac, the coverings must be taken hold of with a pair of forceps, raised up in a heap, and divided with the bistoury held flat (1) ; this is to be repeated till the sac is laid bare, which is known by its shining surface (2). The blood flowing from these cuts must be carefully absorbed with a sponge. The hernial sac itself should be raised in a similar manner, and cut into, from this opening a little fluid usually escapes • for though the omentum be fallen over the surface of the intestine, the shiny ness and smoothness of the sac show the practitioner that he has penetrated its cavity (3). The edge of this opening is to be raised with the forceps, and enlarged with blunt-ended scissors, till a finger can be intro- duced into it, upon which the scissors (4), or button-ended bistoury, should be introduced, and the opening of the sac increased upwards and outwards throughout its whole length (5). If on opening the hernial sac, an adherent part be lighted on, the opening must be enlarged at some other part, till the Aimer can be introduced, to destroy the adhesion, if it be gelatinous, or if membranous, to divide it with the knife. In firmer fleshy adhesions, we must proceed as will be hereafter mentioned (6). If after these appearances, it be doubted whether the sac be opened °r “V“J? swelling is to be pinched up with the thumb and forefinger into a fold, and that he between Them gradually allowed to escape, when it is distinctly felt whether there be merely intestine or tlie hernial sac also. . , , i . i_ rri) In dividing the coverings of the sac, I prefer, after the skin has been ^mpletely cut through, scratching with the end of the probe or director, till a layer of the cdlu ^ tissue be penetrated, tnd then introducing the director and dividing upon it; after which a second and other layers are to be divided in similar way, even to the opening of the sac itself. This is much safer than nipping up with the forceps and opening wUh the knife laid horizontally, which, however, cautiously used, may, in opening the s itself, risk the puncture of the intestine; an accident which once occurred to myself, Wl(2) Thermal ^ac cannot always be distinguished by its shining appearance, for f occasionally it is thick and opake, especially after long wearing a truss; and 1 h. atrain and again seen the sac opened when the Surgeon supposed lie was having; reached it. Also if, as in rare cases, it happen that the sac and its contents g together more or less completely, this distinction does not hold. f3) The most certain proof of the sac being opened, is the escape of the fluid m. greater or less quantity contained in it, -which is proportioned generally - of time the patient has had the rupture, and also of the existence of ^angulahon. It, is a most satisfactory indication of the course of the operation, b^ Ae Surg^ ^ o{ pxnect always to have it. During the course of the last few months 1 strangulated rupture, in which not a drop of fluid escaped when the sac was opened. Thf colour of the fluid escaping, when the sac is cut into, varies considerably, sometimes it is almost colourless, sometimes red as blood, and Caixau ay instance hi which even a clot of blood was found in the sac; the case, however,.hd well f4> i prefer the director and knife to the scissors, and throw aside even 1 th( immediately the aperture is sufficiently large to admit the finger, whicl ‘ 3 lwst guide lor the knife, and the greatest protection to the contents ot the - • rr,f There is no need, as already mentioned in regard to the external wou , pc* the sac down to its bottom ; but it must be divided up to the stricture. . th, Whenever an artery is disposed to bleed, if divided whilst cut g several coverings, it is better at once to tie it, as the bleeding often causes confusion. J.F.S.]STRANGULATED RUPTURE. 37 1171. In many cases, when the strangulation is not considerable, or depends on the peculiar position of the intestines, their entanglement, or their circular enclosure by the omentum, the protruded parts may be returned when they are properly untwisted; or when the part of the intestine at the seat of strangulation has been a little drawn out, and by a gentle pressure, it has been attempted to return the contents of the bowel into the belly. If the intestine be strangulated in a fold of the omentum, this must be freed with the bistoury, if the intestine cannot easily be drawn out of it. [In the College Museum is a very remarkable instance of strangulation of a small intestine, by a smooth round cord, two and a half inches long, and about a line thick, extending from the end of a diverticulum on the ileum to the mesentery, about an inch and a half from the edge of the intestine. In St. Bartholomew’s Museum there is a similar case of a diverticulum from the small intestine to the mesentery, forming a circular hole, in which the gut is strangulated. The patient was subject of obstinate costiveness, and died in four days. In St. Thomas’s Museum there is an instance of strangulation of small intestine by a band from the ascending colon to the mesentery. And at St. Bartholomew’s a preparation of the small intestines of a child of seven years old, strangulated by a narrow thread-like band from the mesentery; he was admitted for constipation, and died fourteen days after.—J. F. S.] 1172. If reduction cannot be thus effected, the seat of strangulation must be dilated, which may be done either by cutting or by stretching. 1173. Dilatation by cutting is effected in the following wayThe intestine is to be withdrawn in the most careful manner by an assistant, from the place where the cut is to be made; the sac should be drawn some- what outwards with the thumb and forefinger of the right hand, and the tip of the left forefinger is to be introduced between the intestine and the neck of the sac; a straight or curved narrow bistoury, with a blunt end, should be introduced flat upon this finger, its cutting edge directed towards the place where the cut is to be made, and the seat of strangulation cut into by raising the handle of the knife, or by pressing its edge up with the finger of the left hand ; but if the strangulation be so great that the finger cannot be introduced, after drawing down the neck of the sac, a director, curved according to circumstances, and oiled, is to be introduced between the intestine and the seat of strangulation, its groove turned towards the part where the incision is to be made, its handle so held with the fingers of the left hand, that they separate the intestines from the director, and give it such position, that its point rests against the inner surface of the perito- neum ; and then upon its groove the button-ended bistoury should be intro- duced. If the seat of strangulation be deep, it is more safe to draw the intestines a little down, so as to be able to see the seat itself. The direction of the cut should always be such as to prevent serious injury ; and its size i such that the forefinger may, without violence, be introduced at the part | v lere the stricture was situated. It is then to be ascertained by the i in reduction of the finger into the belly, whether any second strangulation | exist which requires a second dilatation. '“stru™ents for dividing the strangulating part. Petit’s straight i bistonrv ' d!rcctor> Mery 8 and Mourenheim’s winged director; the straight !thei!ifar !Tn or probe end of Petit, Bellocq, Brambilla, Dzonui ; Heister \ ns mu ' pANC’ ^RA^BILLA> Dupuytren, Seiler; the concave of Perret, others mprf.lv Ruutorffer, Asti.ey Cooper, Langenbeck, and Le Blanc, and 1.7'<^,i^catlon of 1 0TT’H bistoury, the concealed bistoury of Bienase, i of the Mum endpJl ! ^ !*le stri.ctRre’ use of the finger, as a guide for the introduction lunt-ended bistoury, is far preferable to the director ■ and being sure that it is38 OPERATION FOR STRANGULATED RUPTURE. by far the safest, I rarely use any other, however tight the stricture may be. If the finger can fairly reach the stricture, and the smallest part of its tip can be introduced, a very little gentle thrusting will make room for the entrance of the point of the knife. In inguinal rupture I do not recollect to have used a director more than two or three times, and but little more frequently in femoral. The director is a very unsafe instru- ment, where out of sight, for however carefully the intestine may be tended, it will occasionally turn over the director, and be cut in dividing the stricture, which I have seen happen once or twice. When it is absolutely necessary to use the director, in consequence of the impossibility of getting the tip of the finger into the stricture, I have protected the intestine by introducing a spatula between it and the director up to the very stricture. But when this difficulty occurs, it is advisable to lengthen the cut upwards through the skin and coverings of the sac, till the stricture is brought com- pletely and distinctly into view, and then to introduce the director.—J. F. S.] 1174. The bloodless dilatation, or that without cutting, which is only- applicable in those cases where serious injuries, not well to be avoided, forbid incision, may be effected either by the introduction of the finger, or with a proper dilating instrument, (Le Blanc’s dilator,) or with a small hook, (Le Cat’s S-sbaped hook, and Aknaud's hook ;) which is to be carefully introduced between the intestine and the seat of stricture, and therewith extension made, sufficient to render the reduction possible. Bruising of the intestine is scarcely to be avoided. The bloodless dilatation, first proposed by Thevenin (a), was particularly recom- mended by Le Blanc (6) ; but although Le Cat, Arnaud, Richter, even Scarpa, and others have conditionally declared for it, in recent times it has been almost entirely rejected, and only applied, by some, (Trustedt, Rust, Seiler,) to femoral rupture, especially, and in a manner to be hereafter described. [I know no circumstances in which dilatation without the knife is permissible. I should consider any forcible expansion of the stricture, by pulling or dragging with instruments, dangerous and unwarrantable, as it would be ineffectual for the required purpose without more mischief than would result from using the knife.—J. F. S.] 1175. When the obstruction to the return of the intestines on the part of the neck of the sac, or of the abdominal ring has been removed, it depends on the state of the parts contained in the rupture how their return shall be effected. This is often at once possible, without any difficulty ; often must the intestine be carefully unfolded, if filled with stool or air (1). That part of the intestine at the seat of strangulation should always be drawn a little down, to examine its condition. The reduc- tion should be effected with the fingers wetted, those parts first protruded, being carefully first returned ; thus the mesentery earlier than the intes- tine,0 and that before the omentum, according to the direction of the aperture through which they have protruded. The forefinger is then, to be passed by this opening into the belly, for the purpose of determining that all the parts are returned (2). rfl) Always before the intestine is attempted to be returned it should be emptied by < eentle pressure of its contents, whether air or stool, which renders the reduction easy, whilst if this be not attended to, considerable diflieulty is often experienced, ao nnfreouently after dividing the stricture, the tonic power of the muscular coat ot the Lowel will itself empty its contents; or if they be fluid, they will flow back into t e intestine canal, the protruded gut become flaccid and be readily returned into t e beiiv. I do not at all consent to the practice of pricking or cutting into the intestine, if it be indisposed to return, on account of its distension with air. 1 am sure that alter flividinc the stricture freely, it is not matter of much consequence whether the gut returned or not by the operator, as most commonly after a short time the air passe- along the freed gut, and the protruded part diminishes in size, and if not restrained . adhesions retracts into the belly. (fl) Trnit<* des Operations. Paris, 1696. (1) Precis d’Oporations. Paris, 1775. vol.ii.ch chap. vii.39 TREATMENT OF INTESTINE. (2) Although there may be little fluid in the sac, yet it is not unfrequent to have it pour forth freely from the cavity of the belly after the protruded parts have been returned. I recollect having a case in which blood-red fluid escaped so largely that I almost feared I had divided some vessel; however, it ceased before the patient was removed from the table. Callaway tells me of an instance in which, after the return of the intestine, a large quantity of honey-like fluid poured forth, he presumes from an ovarian dropsy having been wounded : the patient, however, recovered.—J. F. S.] 1176. The reduction of the intestine may be rendered difficult or impossible— 1. By adhesiotis, 2. By disorganization, 3. By gangrenous destruction. 1177. If the connexion of the parts with each other depend on a gela- tinous substance, it can be easily destroyed with the finger. Filamentous adhesions having been made tense, maybe divided with the knife, the edge of which is to be turned towards the hernial sac, rather than towards the intestine. But if there be a fleshy adhesion between the sac and its con- tents, the practice is different, according as the adhesion is between the omentum and the hernial sac, or between the omentum and the intestine. In the former case the omentum must be divided, as near as possible to the adhesion, with the knife or with the scissors. If the omentum adhere to a considerable extent to the sac, it must only be divided at the neck of the sac, surrounded with some linen overspread with cerate, and when the inflammation has subsided, it should be divided near the abdominal rino-. (According to Scarpa, it should be tied and tightened daily till it fall off?) *1 he omentum often returns into the belly whilst surrounded with the linen (1). In the second case, after the strangulation is relieved, the intestine must be left quiet in its place, covered with compresses moistened in and often wetted with decoction of marsh-mallows (2). It is frequently observed that the piece of intestine gradually returns into the belly. If it remain partially in the abdominal ring, it becomes covered with granula- 10ns and adheres to the integument. The same practice must be pursued in the natural connexions between the intestine and the hernial sac, when they render reduction impossible. M owf V il SUCi1 CaSetS overfilled mtestine has been punctured with a large needle *°> and SO consolidated wtth, the surfhce'of"thS"2f a.Ut'7""t”i‘ returned 2% SlLA^nX T A^ undisturbed, and no ill consequences 6hivp Stllctu^e’ 1 have left the adhering omentum Thomas’s Museum wLre tMs ^rt;^ enSUed\ But, thei'e is a preparation in St. stricture, returned’into the bellv vet Pu[sued’ and tlle gut, after division of the patient died ; and, on examimtfo/ it wit of strangulation continued, and the upon the intestine as it lay tral.svergely behin^it^She ,formed a tight cot'd pletely prevented the passage of the contents of tl, t the br‘m of the pelvis, and com- as h the SWR'SSlSftS (n) .(ournal von GbaKfs und Waj.ther, vol. iii. p. 055.40 OPERATION FOR STANGULATED RUPTURE. my cases ■which were successful happened after the fatal case just mentioned. I certainly should not be disposed to adopt or recommend the practice proposed by Chelios, of separating the adhesions at the neck of the sac, and passing a piece of linen round the omentum, with the purpose of dividing it at a future time, as I should expect that the presence of such extraneous substance would be likely to excite dangerous inflammation. (2) As to the adhesions between the omentum and gut, if they cannot be easily separated with the finger, they are best left alone, without attempting further separation of their return, to take their chance together, either to remain in the sac, or return of their own accord into the belly. (3) There is in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons of England, a preparation of a portion of strangulated small intestine, which not being returnable on account of the great quantity of air it contained, was cut into, to the extent of an inch, and left in the sac, and the patient died. I cannot imagine there is any necessity for puncturing the intestine to compel its return into the belly, provided the stricture l>e freely divided; for I know by experience, that if strangulation be relieved, it is of little consequence how much intestine be down. In reference to this point, I recollect the largest scrotal rupture on which I have operated, and in which, before the division of the stricture, there was at least half a yard of bowel down, filled with air; and, after the stricture had been cut through, at least as much more thrust through, so that I almost despaired of getting any back ; yet after a time^I returned the whole. To my vexation, however, next morning I found my patient had got out of bed to relieve himself on the chamber-pot, and as might be expected, the bowel had descended, and in such quantity, that the scrotum was at least as big as a quart pot, and the vermicular motion of the intestine was distinctly seen through the stretched skin. Nothing further was done than to keep the tumour raised above the level of the abdominal ring, by placing a pillow beneath it, and by degrees it returned, and the patient never had an untoward symptom. If, however, the bowel be filled with solid matter, as hard stool, or apple or potato skin, and its return thus prevented, as well as the passage through it stopped up, au instance of which latter kind is in the College Museum, then the loaded gut ought to be cut into freely without hesitation, as the only means of perhaps saving the patient s life. But such cases I suspect are exceedingly rare.—J. F. S.] 1178. If the omentum be converted into a tangled lump, it must not be returned into the belly, because it requires a too large dilatation of the abdominal ring, and this degenerated mass may produce inflammation and even suppuration in the cavity of the belly. The general advice in these cases, is to tie the omentum above the degenerated part, to cut it oft below the ligature, to return the tied part into the belly, and to fasten the threads externally. The ligature of the omentum, however, causes a new strangu- lation (1). _ j Experiments on animals, and numerous practices upon man, show that the omentum, cut off and without tying, may be returned into the belly without injury (2). But if the vessels of the cut edge of the omentum bleed they must be tied singly and the threads allowed to hang out ex- ternally, or torsion must be performed on them (3). The recommendation ll of allowing such diseased pieces of omentum to lie out, (Pouteau, De- sault,Yolfi, Zang, and others,) proves the objection, that by fastening: the omentum in this position, severe disturbance of the stomach and so onj may be produced. If the omentum be sloughy, the sloughy part must bed removed with scissors, and treated in the way prescribed. In these cases, j generally the omentum becomes adherent to the neck of the sac, which it then closes like a plug. |Yl') I have tied the omentum, and cut off the part below the ligature several times,- without any of the untoward results commonly, and as by Chelius, assigned to t l fg^The largest portion of omentum I have known removed was seven ounces and | a hal f, in a case of scrotal rupture, in a man forty-two years of age, under ( allawav care 11, 111 a Loot vjk ovioiui . V.. V , ... — j *11 •« I ■ he recovered, and the preparation is in the Museum ot Guy s Hospital.41 TREATMENT OF OMENTUM. Key (a) advises, that “ the omentum should be unfolded before it is divided by the knife ; otherwise the cutting off the omentum in a mass prevents all the vessels being seen, and when returned into the abdomen they bleed profusely.” A case of this kind happened to him, in which he cut off “ a large portion of omentum with one stroke of the knife, securing the bleeding arteries before returning it to the mouth of the sac. In four hours after the operation blood of an arterial colour began to ooze from the sac, and soon increased in quantity to alarm the dresser. He used pressure and cold to no purpose. Her pulse began to falter, and her face was bedewed with a cold perspiration ; and in this state I found her, when early on the following morning I was called to see her. It was evident she had lost a very large quantity of blood, and had she not been possessed of an unimpaired constitution, she could not have supported the loss. I opened the sac, removed the coagulum with which it was filled, and was pro- ceeding to look for the bleeding vessels of the omentum, when I fortunately observed the haemorrhage had suddenly ceased. The only ill effect of the haemorrhage was the disturbance of the adhesive process, and the consequent suppuration in the sac, as she ultimately perfectly recovered.” (p. 43, note.) When necessary to remove omentum I generally tear it off as far as possible, and afterwards cut through the part which will not tear. I have rarely had occasion to apply any ligatures. Sometimes if the omentum be left, it sloughs; I have seen this happen two or three times without any inconvenience. Astley Cooper (b) mentions a case in which both omentum and intestine were returned into the belly, and after the operation the patient complained of severe pain in the belly ; the ligatures on the wound in the scrotum were removed ; on the following day a small portion of gangrenous omentum protruded, more and more gradually descended, till the whole which had been protruded appeared in the wound, sloughed, and the patient recovered, (p. 44.) Hewett has recently (c) given a good account of some cases in which the omentum nad formed a complete bag around the intestine in strangulated rupture. Although Richter has been stated to have had cases of this kind, yet it appears that he merely notices their existence without mentioning any particular instance, and IIey’s cases can- not be admitted as belonging to this class. Hewett states that “these sacs have been round m the three most common forms of hernia; but it is in the umbilical hernia they nave been generally observed; the relative situation of the intestine and the omentum m the abdominal cavity will easily explain the fact. Complete omental sacs were round in four cases out of thirty-four operations for strangulated hernia, performed at Georges Hospital in 1842-43; of these four cases two were femoral, one inguinal and one umbilical. The formation of these sacs is attributed by Richter to the firm agglutination of the margins of the omentum which has surrounded the bowel. In this n^cn‘tl0*n °rI?iICHTER’S’ which does not aPPear t0 be applicable to the majority of cases, the two following explanations of the manner in which these sacs are 'in some P^ses thZth th6 added i-Hrsf, the gut, completely enveloped by the omentum, L ® if j , “£h tbc n°g’ and Ae omentum thus disposed round the intestine becomes S i V °f the nGck of tbe be™ial sac; this omental pouchfs subsequently distended by the intestine, and thus forms a complete lining to the hernial becomes a°lteredI1i?)=f/0Ch 6 takcs Place- and the portion of omentum which is protruded lymph - but whl n tl'^ KT’ a'ld ,US f° ds brmly Unlted toeacb other by tbe effusion of into which thp'm'11 £bd°mmal cavity’m the neighbourhood of the ring, the fold, spaces into whie n T ba* bcen drawu may 110t be agglutinated; they will thus leave Jr vblcb a knuckle of intestine may insinuate itself, pass through the rin^s 't may happen^thft^J^'1 Tu th® alt?red ™ass of omentum which is in the hernial sac. xdween the folds of the tbree Portlon* of Sut may slip into the different spaces left louchec « , , f the omentum, and subsequently form for themselves separate n^ wMch ;ITn thePharate fCS’ with narr™ »e«ks, may be thus found in the omental in one case the Sa°‘ • °.nce fol'med, these sacs may attain an immense size. it its broadest part;0 The ^ T ^ "\ ^ deven incbes ia circumference • ? ‘ /he omentum m whicli a sac has been formed, may in the course of •fTym^hofby fdeVoSn of fit’ b“e a’tered in structure, either by thVeffusion .Iteration of „L .: p0Sdlon.o.f ,fat> whlch takes place in the walls of the sac. By this lterefin Y* “T”1™ lat, W1 cry great^ifficuS6 ** * These m aU °P?rati°n’ become the' source "of he hernial sac or the two I; lta sacs may either lie loose in the cavity of sac, or the two sacs may have contracted more or less extensive and firm (a) Cooper’s Hernia, above citeil. (,J) Above cited. (c) Observations 0n the Omental Sac* which are sometimes found in Strangulated Hernia? com- pletely enveloping the intestine ; in Med.-Chir i raris. vol. xxvii. 1844.42 OPERATION FOR STRANGULATED RUPTURE, adhesions with each other, (p. 284-87.) The neck of an omental sac may become the sole cause of strangulation, of which an instance is given. “ The division of the neck of these omental sacs may be followed by haemorrhage,” of which he also men- tions a case; the external bleeding at the operation was slight, and soon ceased; but after death a large patch of recently effused blood was found in the folds of the | omentum near the mouth of the sac. (pp. 291, 92.)] (3) If the blood have not coagulated in the vessels of the omentum, cutting it off and tying them singly is not only an almost interminable business, but also when apparently all the vessels have been secured, and the patient put to bed, after a few hours secondary bleeding occurs from some little vessel or vessels which had escaped notice, the sac and yielding skin become largely distended with blood, in such quantity as to produce faint- ness, and require the reopening of the wound to remove the blood and tie the bleeding vessels. This disturbance of the wound prevents the adhesive process, and very commonly gives rise to abscess in the sac or its immediate neighbourhood, by which the cure is much retarded. A case of this kind occurred to me, and a large abscess was the result, although the patient ultimately recovered. It is on this account I prefer tearing through the omentum as much as possible, by which the ends of the vessels are ensheathed in cellular tissue, and do not bleed, or even tying up the omentum together. The occurrence of abscess in the sac, independent of bleeding, and which sometimes reproduces symptoms of strangulation, has been noticed by Key, as will be presently seen (p. 49) ; first, in a case which occurred at St. Thomas's Hospital in 1817, which I remember to have noted; and secondly, in a case of his own.—J. F. S.] 1179. If the intestine have a dark, violet, even dusky colour, and its warmth be diminished, these must not prevent its reduction ; only, accord- ing to some, the precaution should be taken of drawing a loop through the mesentery, for the purpose of keeping the returned intestine in the neigh- bourhood of the abdominal ring, and to afford a more free escape to the stool, if a part of the returned intestine be destroyed by gangrene. [It not unfrequently happens, that though an intestine be a dark-chocolate colour when the sac is first opened, yet immediately after the division of the stricture, the colour, which has depended only on venous congestion, begins to alter, and the gut becomes florid. This is always a very encouraging sign.—J. F. S.] 1180. If the gangrene be more severe, which is characterized by loss i of gloss, by an ashy-gray colour, by a softened condition, by the easy peeling off of the outer membrane of the intestine, if the gangrenous portion be but small, it must be opened with a lancet, and the gangrenous part fastened in a corresponding position to the abdominal ring. If a loop of intestine be j attacked wit if gangrene, and the continuity of the intestinal canal destroyed, the o-angrenous part must simply be cut off with scissors, as by the previous inflammation, adhesion of the rest of the intestine with the hernial sac lias been effected, which prevents all effusion of stool into the belly. If the excrement will not escape of itself, an elastic sound must be introduced. The enlargement of the mouth of the sac with the knife is dangerous, as the divisio'n easily overshoots the boundary of the adhesion and may cause effusion into the belly. Stitching up the intestine after cutting off the gangrenous part, as proposed and performed in various ways, is objectionable, as the stitch not holding the inflamed intes- tinal membranes, produces extension of the inflammation and gangrene. 1181. If in the protruded bowel any wounding substance be found, it must t be removed by the wound ; if the intestine be so narrowed and degenerated i that it can no* longer allow the passage of the stools, that part must be cut off the wound brought together, by means of Lembert’s stitch; or thee intestine must be fixed in the abdominal ring, by a twist of the mesenteiy. In very small wounds only of the intestines, may the little opening be tieau up with a silk thread (A. Cooper.) . , . . . -ri- ll 82. If in an old and bulky rupture, it lie certain that it is not possibleWITHOUT OPENING THE SAC. 43 to return the contained parts, on account of the great adhesion and dege- neration, the hernial sac must merely be laid bare at the abdominal rino-, the strangulation relieved, and the rupture left where it was (1). That mode of operating in which the hernial sac is not to be at all opened, but only the abdominal ring dilated so as to return the hernial sac together with the intestine, is, in general, to be rejected, and the not opening of the sac to be most especially confined to those cases in which it is certain that in a recently produced or extraordinary large rupture, or in a rupture entirely adhering to the neck of the sac, the strangulation is seated in the abdominal ring. In most cases the connexion between the aponeurotic opening and the hernial sac is so firm that the blunt end of a knife cannot be inserted between them, especially if a truss have been already worn (2). Although Franco and Pare had cut into the abdominal ring and did not open the hernial sac, except when reduction could not be effected, yet the practice was first generally recommended by Petit, in large and adherent ruptures; after him, by Ga- rengeot and Monro, in recent and small ruptures, and more recently by A Cooper • but especially by Key (a) and Preiss (b) has it been laid down, to a certain extent’ as the proper practice (2). The advantages resulting therefrom, are diminution of the’ danger, as the hernial sac is not injured ; as well as that by keeping the air from the cavrty of the belly inflammation, in any injury of an artery effusion of blood into the elly, and also injuring and tearing the intestine in incipient gangrene, are prevented • and when it seems necessary, the opening of the hernial sac can always be made! rhese benefits are, however, sufficiently outweighed by the disadvantages, that without ia° n° Can be obtained of the state and condition of the parts, the I DjhKnC*i, at the neck of the sac may be caused by the entanglement of the intestine and by the peculiar position of the omentum, and the operation, especially in stout persons is very difficult, and therefore only to be confined to the above-mentioned cases P With minM nW wh-Tl!nt be pl,aCed Gu*RIN's (c) subcutaneous incision of the abdo- rin" Jheg’ T he wou d e“P¥ m a11 ruPtures witb recent strangulation from the rin0, where, however, no sloughy destruction of the loop of intestine is to be feared Instrangulatmn by the hernial sac it is not applicable. feamL 1(1) When a rupture is large and old, Surgeons generally follow Astley Cooper’« nrridedndai10n’if diYiding the StrictUre ^thout opening the sac a™avwThe ‘‘Stn vfrvTaSe 7 n0t’be' For tbis he assigns the following relsofs !- the habitual Iocs Of tR d caylt;y of the abdomen is so much diminished by to reSvTthem a/ai^e and if! ^ine and omentum, that it becomes scarcely able endangers the hnrftin<r’ f , lf.a reductlon ls attempted, the force necessary to effect it °( i! an inflammation which will probably be attended with n0t g,ve way> f,le r,sk of lastly,^hen'^^^adhesffi^occursaiso much^hn^6^ s ed"g! °r if the stricture ishigW uj. oMhe*twer stricture is situated r/he sactself^ of shrldnotbe °Pened> ™>eSS the describesI made an incision i R d- 7 Per,for.ming the operation he thus mmal ring, exposing it with the knife lnchfS In length, immediately over the alido- uiade a hole “the fZS !r JJ ’ T11-88 the/“- ^hich it sends off. I then behind the 1 thrast 5 Probe-pointed bistoury upon it I divided the V^g iT “C*; a"'1 paSsinS a cu>'ved ohn°Er;;n-- w Gazette Medicate de Paris, 1841. No. 33.OPERATION FOR STRANGULATED RUPTURE, 44 was performed, “ had existed from the patient’s (aged fifty-four) earliest years,” and that it “ was of enormous size, reaching half-way to the knees,” yet after the division of the stricture, “ it went up with a gurgling noise, as soon as his hand was laid upon the tumour.” And as regards the danger of exposing and handling for a long time a large surface of intestine, as laid down in his second reason for not opening the sac, the only case he refers to is Carpentek’s, who says :—“ It was the largest hernia I ever remember to have seen;” and, having opened the sac “ a large quantity of intestine, with a small piece of omentum protruded;” but after dividing the stricture, the adhesions were so great, that he “judged it advisable not to attempt their separation. And from the size of the hernia, it was quite impossible to bring the integuments over the intestine, which was therefore left exposed to the airyet nothing untoward ensued; “ the intestine soon began to granulate, and gradually shrunk within the wound,” and the patient recovered, (p. 64.) This is the operation on which Astley Cooper lays so great stress, observing:— “ I feel convinced that this operation will be gradually introduced into general practice when it has been fairly tried, and found, if performed early, to be free from danger, and attended with no unusual difficulty.” (p. 64.) “ If we cannot accomplish our object in this manner,” says Lawrence, “ a small aperture may be made in the sac, near the ring, which will enable the Surgeon to introduce a curved director under the stricture; the knife carried along the groove, divides the tendon with ease. When the parts are thus set free, they should be returned into the belly by pressure on the swelling, if adhesions do not prevent this; at all events, they generally admit of being replaced in part.” (p. 285.) (2) I do not think it can be fairly stated from Astley Cooper’s published statements, that he is in the generality of cases favourable to, or that he recommends the practice of dividing the stricture, in strangulated rupture external to the sac, but only lays it down as the general rule in large ruptures. It is quite true that in his great work on Hernia, in the first part of the first edition, when treating of the operation for inguinal rupture, he says :—“ An advantage is derived from dilating the stricture without cutting the sac itself, for there is no danger of injuring the intestine, &c.” (p. 30); and in the second edition he speaks more at length on the subject thus:—“ I have occasionally practised, and for some time recommended in my lectures the following mode of dividing the stricture without including the sac. The tendon of the external oblique having been divided a little above the external ring, the sac is gently drawn down, while the muscles are drawn up by an assistant. In this way the stricture is brought into view, and can be divided without risk, and without including the peritoneum.” (p. 39); and he then enumerates the advantages from this practice, that there is no danger of wounding the intestine, and that if the epigastric artery is cut, as the peritoneum is undivided, the flow of blood would be immediately perceived, and then the vessel might be secured. But in neither edition of his Surgical Lectures, neither that in the Lancet of 1S23-24, nor that edited by Tyrrell in 1827, does he allude to the division of the stricture without opening the sac, except in large ruptures. In both these editions of his Lectures he also expressly directs opening the sac and says in the one (a), after “feeling for the stricture, * * * you introduce the probe-pointed bistoury on the director or finger, and divide the stricture without cutting too much ; ” (p. 478.) and in the other (6), “ having thus exposed the contents of the hernial sac, as far as the seat of stricture, the operator should insinuate the point of his finger or a director under the stricture, between the sac and its contents, at the upper part, carefully keeping the latter from turning over the finger or director. He should then pass the knife for dividing the stricture upon the finger or director, under the stricture, and by a gentle motion divide this stricture, &c.” (pp. 44, 5.) I may also add that 1 have no remembrance of having seen him operate without opening the sac, in the many operations for strangulated rupture which I saw him perform in the Hospital during the first fourteen years of my professional life. To Key, however, must be justly ascribed the revival of Petit’s operation, and of its more extensive application (c). His views with regard to its employment will be seen in the following observations upon fifteen fatal cases. “ The majority of the eases,” he says, “ appeared to have died from peritoneal inflammation consequent upon the ex;>o- sure'of an inflamed or strangulated portion of bowel. I say exposure of the bowel; for it is, probably, not so much the wound in the peritoneal sac that disposes to inflamma- tion,'as placing the bowel under circumstances to which it has hitherto been unaccus- tomed. The sudden change of temperature to which it is submitted, the exposure to („) I.ancet, 1823, 24. (fc) Tyrrf.i.i.'s Edition of Lectures, vol. iii. (e) Memoir, above cited.WITHOUT OPENING THE SAC. 45 light, and to a current of air, cannot hut have some influence upon the delicate circula- tion of the part, and be productive of some impression on the nerves of so susceptible a surface as that of a strangulated intestine. And if to these influences be added the handling which the gut usually experiences, the reaction that follows these agents, we must regard as a natural consequence and likely (as experience proves) to amount to excessive inflammation. In tracing the inflammation consequent upon an operation for hernia, it is found to spread from that portion of the bowel that has been strangulated over the peritoneal surface of the intestines, and not to have its origin from the incision in the sac, although two wounds are usually inflicted upon it, one for the purpose of exposing its contents, and another, higher up, to divide the stricture. The peritoneum about the seat of stricture exhibits fewer signs of acute inflammation than the invest- ment of the bowels.” (pp. 11, 12.) After giving an “outline of these cases,” Key observes, “ it is obvious that the attempt to relieve the stricture without exposing the contents of the sac, could not have been attended with any untoward consequences in any of the cases, with the exception of the two cases of gangrene, Nos. II and XII • and in these the symptoms denoting the approach or existence of sphacelus were sufficiently marked to point out to the operator the necessary mode of proceeding Some of the other cases, in all probability, would have been benefited had the sac been left entire, (p. 26.) Lawrence does not agree with Key in “ ascribing the unfavourable state of bowel which was found in so large a proportion of his thirteen eases, (the other two not having been operated on,) and which, I believe, will be met with in the majority of those who die after the operation, to the operation itself and its attendant circumstances, namely exposure to air and light, change of temperature and handling. I think it rather owing to the pressure of the stricture, which affects the parts, not like the slight violence of the operation, for a few minutes only, but uninterruptedly for hours, and sometimes days, disturbing the circulation, making an impression on the intestine as if it had been X so™etlmes causing ulceration either of the internal tunics or of e bowel in its whole thickness. That inflammation excited by this kind of injurv may cause death is clearly proved by Mr. Key’s cases. * * * When we find the dtel tines at the time of the operation mortified, as in cases II. and XII., distended and dis tat 11 C0Uld DOt !’? rePlaced’ aad squired to be opened, fs ifease V so mischief is ob-vdo^ly^inde^endeutof^h^l()^eratiorq mid*its thG StriCtUre> and ^ified theVrtTus' From a very careful consideration of the circumstances attendant on strangulated errand thTre^Tfi follow, S“u^e SETS mischief is rather owing to the “pressure of the stricture ” ti,„ '-, fCE , at tlle taJ; m ™PtUre '""Tl. d"™S *he Sr c’st ““xt Withoutinjuri irfg'the'textore ^°l^s Asides the inflammation proves destructive in its effects sXehTnTof the injury, with copious suppuration ensues, and the process of heafinl !he-ce/War membrane, common contusion and an *• UJe Plocess °t healing is tedious. Betwepn a analogy;TfiS of^txtur n’The tde taxis’ there" S the other. Inflammat oni.VCase’,leads ?>tbe same effects as exp t*>e other. Inflammatfon is in both XTesulZZfS* effeCrtS as -posureln impaired, disorganization in both cases follows ,1 110 'Vltallty of the parts being faction. If the contusion be not accomnan ed lw o 1 16 ^ons/q,UenCe of inflammatory anticipated; and just so if the hn.isJ crea,C1 °f the surface. no harm ' IS anticipated; and just so if the bruiscXcon tents & fX °f the surface, no harm wound of the peritoneal sac and !! “ contents of a henna are returned without a y&ps “docs pen the sac, is tha of X0? .a11 °.thers Fenders it imperative duty to open the sac is that of ’ that al’ove a11 others renders it an made by some Surgeons of experience !hat X'1'^ that “ 5t is a remark state of gangrene when no i , 1 -the ,lntc?tlne is occasionally found to be in a R wVnnosym^Ld fxisteibSeX °CCasional'y «>und to be in a mortification having taken place,” Key observes «it doesX?'T t0nUse asuspicion > it does not, however, appear, that46 OPERATION FOR STRANGULATED RUPTURE, any pains have been hitherto taken to form a correct diagnosis of the circumstances under which gangrene has actually taken place; nor am I prepared to say, that, in all cases, such a certainty of diagnosis is attainable; I think, however, that if the attention of the profession were more closely directed to the consideration of the condition pre- ceding gangrene, a near approach might be made, sufficiently accurate to direct the Surgeon’s practice in all cases.” (pp. 103, 104.) I cannot agree with Key that “ the ordinary characters of a completely sphacelated portion of bowel are distinct enough,” for I am quite sure that I have seen them all existing more than once or twice without auy gangrene, hut simply depending on the unwarrantable violence used in attempting to return the rupture. But I do agree with him, that “ it sometimes happens that no such change takes place in the swelling, and then the evidence of gangrene is much more equivocal.” It is by no means infrequent to find an intestine mortified, although the time it has been strangulated is short, and not the slightest external sign leads to the presumption of its condition; as, on the contrary, it now and then happens that the exterior of the swelling is tender, inflamed, doughy, and crackling, from the causes I have just mentioned, and yet the intestine within be healthy, and the patient recover the operation. As regards the loss of elasticity in the swelling, I believe it a very uncertain sign; the intestine may be gangrenous, but the sac full of fluid, as is com- monly the case under such circumstances, and then the elasticity remains. The only sign which I think can be relied on, though even that is doubtful, is when the gangrenous intestine has hurst; then, indeed, although the redness, doughiness, and crackling still remain, the rounding of the swelling subsides, and when a little pressure is made on it a central hollow is produced, and a sense of yielding beneath, very different from the pitting caused by pressure on oedematous cellular tissue. Key mentions a case which occurred to him, in which “ a fetid smell, similar to that described by Sir A. Cooper, was perceptible in the progress of the operation, before the sac was opened.” The patient had a femoral rupture, and “ a fetid smell arose from the swelling as soon as the fascia propria was opened ; it was a smell arising from a decomposed portion of bowel, and the transudation of its faecal contents. The intestine proved to be quite gangrenous, being black, devoid of lustre, and lacerable. Such a. fetor might, I apprehend, be discovered in most cases of sphacelus before the sac is opened; its absence should be ascertained in every case in which the contents of a hernia are to be returned without opening the sac. Before disorganization of the coats of the intestine takes place, transudation of fluid or of fetid air is probably prevented. In incipient gangrene, therefore, it is not to be expected.” (p. 109). One instance of fetid smell before opening the sac occurred to me in the case of strangulated umbilical rupture, (No.X. in my Table,) which had been so for thirty hours ; but on exposing the gut at the operation, part of it was quite natural, and part dark chocolate-coloured, but shiny, and did not seem to be mortified; after death, at forty- eight hours from the operation, it had a dirty clay-coloured appearance, very different from that when first exposed. Admitting that the presence of the fetid smell is always indicative of gangrene, thou°li it has been rarely observed, yet its absence is no certain sign of the healthy state°of the intestine; and, therefore, some still more definite symptoms of this dangerous condition of the gut are requisite before it can be decided with certainty previous to opening the sac. . ^ . Lawrence adheres to the old practice of opening the sac and dividing the stricture from within ; he says:—“ The mode of proceeding thus recommended by Sir AstlkYi Cooper, and executed by him with perfect facility,” which is also fully confirmed by. Key’s practice and experience, “ would be found difficult to those less intimately con- versant with the anatomy of ruptures, and in some cases, probably impracticable. It is - therefore fortunate that we eannot regard it as a matter of much consequence, w hen* the hernial sac has been freely laid open, we cannot suppose that the additional division of its neck will much increase the chance of peritonitis. If the stricture be divided in a proper direction, the epigastric artery is not endangered. Nor can the intestine be. wounded if due care is taken to protect it, by using a deeply-grooved director, or b) > carrying the curved knife along the finger. It may also be carefully held out of tnaj way when the stricture is divided, either by the operator or assistant; or it may DM covered at that time by the handle of a scalpel. Let me observe further, that the* method of dividing the stricture on the outside of the sac does not necessarily secure the protruded parts from injury. In an attempt of this kind recorded by Pelletan\o} the intestine was wounded. The question of eligibility between the ordinary course o proceeding, aud this modification must be determined, like all other practical matters by experience. Unless unequivocal advantage should be found m the latter, I sliouk- (n) Clinique Chirurgicale, vol. iii. p. 102. i l| 1 t I I S I i t ■ i47 WITHOUT OPENING THE SAC. not recommend its adoption, being unwilling to introduce without absolute necessity a new difficulty into an operation, always requiring consideration and caution, and fre- quently attended with embarrassing circumstances.” (p. 290.) F i oin my own personal experience of the division of the stricture external to the sac } cau saJ aching, never having performed it. But I do not think so great ad van face is gained by not opening the sac, as is stated. From all the cases I have observed either in the practice of others or in my own, I do not think cutting through the her- nial sac, and consequently opening the peritoneal cavity, so serious as generally consi- deied. If inflammation of the peritoneum have not been previously set up, either by the rough usage of the rupture, or by the irritation which a long strangulated or gam grenous gut produces, I cannot understand why making a small opening into the peri- toneal cavity should be more dreaded than the long slits, which are now made without compunction, for the removal of diseased ovaries, and so forth. There are, however ft To? Hdi °nS "’ !,1Ch eVeD,th0Se ^ho advise having the sac untouched, admit, require that it should be opened, namely, confinement of the protruded parts by entangling bands or by adhesion to the sac itself, and a gangrenous condition of the bowelS Under all’ circumstances therefore am still disposed to continue the practice of opening the sa" as I have hitherto done, believing it to be the most safe. I cannot conclude thfse obser ’ vat ions without stating that I believe much of the fatality attendant on operations for strangulated ruptures, depends on the improper after-treatment. I well recollect the whlitheevi’paS.f00n Patient waS put t0 bed> ^ "’as dosed with seLa and sa te calomel, I J.lieee thafcSst J“J' SP“ial f“ the integuments over the seat of c* * + ' S ,?n* , couslsts of an incision of jacent cdlular teXe and /Ll to * division of the sub- stricture itself; and afterwards the’hernial h su“eeds the cautious division of the by the taxis, without exposure. In femoral antHn lnml ■?.etu1rn,ed mto the abdomen, as purposes of the operation, the seat of stricture^ ifbllCal a™?’ for a11 Practical abdominal apertures, although in the formpr 7 4 ^ e assumed to be at the respective variation upon that point ** * In inmfin.l 7™ ^ 18 occasionally some light variable, and the range of its variation exf^ntbe+seat ?f stricture is far more scrotum in the male - consenuentlv -s h°m the internal abdominal ring to the operator, the external’incision may be maSroveT oL extre^'t t0 guide the stricture is far away at the other andTfr.,?rt extremity of the range, when the * * *, There are several waysof Tonduc^nSe be -the probable result, desired diagnosis, all of which depend for hefr success f™nation to obtain the mumcation of impulse from one part to another h^ tL P?n- stoPPaSe of the com- of a hernial tumour be compressed bv the wf 7- stricture. Thus, if the body parts below the seat of stricture; u f lm neck of the^56 “ ““““““ated to all its finger and thumb of the other hand above the It S? herm^e S™ped between the made there will not be any impulse felt When in he ^’ WhUe SUcb compression is hon the neck of the tumour is first grasped we ? commencement of the examina- 'S felt on compression of the tumouVitse f t m seut n/ T^'f assure<1- that if an impulse men-, and by gradually withdraw?™ 52 ure ls.nearer to the abdo- . fiss**-***«& first grasped, we may be equallv assured felt W len tbe ueck of the tumour is body of the hernia; and, bra fkrgradna^ann •8tru*are is ^ated nearer to he (») Operation for Strangulated Hernia i M °f hllpulse whc» * Hernia ; in Med. Gazette, vol. i. 1839-40.48 OPERATION FOR STRANGULATED RUPTURE. I the patient coughs; but this method is irksome and painful under circumstances of acute peritoneal inflammation, and on that account is not so generally desirable as that detailed. Yet much -valuable information, not otherwise attainable, may be afforded by using this method in conjunction with that furnished by compression of the tumour. In some cases the stricture occupies a considerable portion of the neck of the hernia, but in most it is confined to a limited space. In the former case, before performing Petit’s operation, it is desirable to be acquainted with those limits, in order that, ■when extensive, suitable provision may be made for its complete division. The com- bination of the two examinations has this knowledge for its^ object, which is easily attained by attending to the points of cessation of impulse. The point of cessation of impulse on coughing indicates the upper boundary of the stricture, and the point of cessation of impulse on compression of the hernia, indicates its lower boundary of the stricture; and, consequently, the boundaries are the limits of its extent.’’ (pp. 865, 66.) He further observes :—“The probability of the necessity to open the'sac to effect a return, is much increased when the stricture is caused by its thick and indurated neck. * * * When the stricture is situated exteriorly to the sac, a director may generally be easily introduced under it, and it may be as easily divided with a bistoury; but when the neck of the sac itself forms the stricture, no such measure can be adopted. Iu such cases its division should be accomplished by cutting the indurated and thick sub- stance on its exterior surface only, taking the greatest care that the knife does not penetrate to the interior of the sac. If this step has been properly performed, the division is only partial, and little amount of relief will ensue. To render the relief effective, the partial division of the indurated neck should be repeated in oue or two other situations on the circumference of the stricture, by which, at length, the stric- turing substance is so far weakened in its power of resistance, especially when unsup- ported by surrounding structures, that it becomes susceptible of dilatation by the very moderate interior pressure of the hernial contents during the efforts of the taxis. Suc- cess does not frequently attend the first efforts, so that renewed partial divisions, and renewed efforts, are mostly required; and, however unpromising such cases maybe, experience enables me to state, that in this way they often admit of relief without the necessity of opening the sac. The proportion of failures in the attempt is, from its | nature greater than that which is experienced in hernia:, strictured by the margins of the abdominal apertures; yet, inclusive of these failures, I have not any reason to consider their general amount large, having sustained only five failures out of thirty- two cases, on which I have attempted to leave the sac unopened.” (p. 866.) There is much good in the preceding observations, on which account I have so 1 largely quoted them; but the success resulting from this practice, so very far beyoud j what usually happens in cases of strangulated rupture, leads to the suspicion that some i < 1 1 1 1 ]49 TREATMENT OF SLOUGHY INTESTINE. several days after the operation, and the intestines be still protruded on account of adhesion, it may then be advisable, in complete obstruction of the intestine, to open it with a lancet. Kev (a) notices one circumstance in the after treatment, (especially in inguinal ruptures,) in which symptoms resembling those from strangulation occurred viz the too' Two Xr“rat‘°" f T S*° “PP'»«ioo. The S0«rswel™;p a I'v operation, becomes painful, hiccough and vomiting recur the relief of the bowels is diminished or suppressed, and, from the fulness ofthe hernial sac, the patient lias the sensation as if the rupture were again protruded Distinct At'“ ordman:‘y not t0 be felt> on account of the thickeningP of the membranes 4**,1 leecbe.s and evaporating washes are to be applied, subsequently poultices the tWiisa'*,he ianc“'aai - ^ “aV [I have had one case of suppuration of the sac of an inguinal rupture but it did “™CZSeFSoS»i™eger°'“ “d after * d»?s “P'ip’l i«f, aod SS, 1"ated ia -- U_If the intestine be sloughy, it must be merely covered with a b ht compress dipped in a mucilaginous fluid. When all the sloush is uown off and the artificial anus or faecal fistula is formed by the union txntti - ■“■r *»<* ssk sar4"' “ ■—* »“d (“ b.e,ly' a,nd T,,gh iwas operated on, “ and the intestine though dark nruhistraD8'lllated inguinal rupture nested, was returned into the *>be merelyPcon- oeranum, and appeared relieved. On the third d‘7- he Passed stools i quantity of feculent matter was seen issuing from tlm * tlle Poultlce was removed, continued for five days, at the endTwS1ImTft aL2“g Ith? discharge •peedily cicatrized.” In another case asotnmU * a alto8ether healed, and the wound o Key himself; on the fourth da^fer tTSST ruPtuf> which occurred aken place at the wound. Thp nhrlnm^ i Pcla\10n a copious discharge of fccces had iad discharged faces per anum. Thedischarge^d'note^^f SmCe the °Peratioil> but he he healing of the wound. But at the eml „fg? , t eas(rfor several days, and delayed »d the wound entirely closed * (pm in faw.Sf® ^ h« **«““« convalesced" • bubonocek.which was operated™ by’ \™^kable case* oloured, was returned without difficult^ hnt ! 1 f Sut> which was much dis- 'id nntfni!ial CaV'ty- 0,1 Posing the finger as lifeW 0° h-aV® .comPletely re-entered 'd not fairly reach the abdomen it seems fe u • g aS the n,CIS10n would admit if it vere contained in a peculiar SfiS™ civ from ^t£| , tw5 davs in °p’ T’‘ violent Pail1 hi the lower part oftfed,/ ’ ln^out six weeks vr.T Coo!‘,!KS Iiernin, p.note. ■ ... m day from the appearance ' up. u, (o) Memoir. E50 TABULAR VIEW OF OPERATIONS of faces in the wound. On examining the body, the whole of the intestines were found so j strongly adherent to each other, that they could not be separated without laceration. A . portion of the ileum, the same, probably, which had been protruded, adhered to the abdo- minal ring. Its coats were greatly stretched, and its canal was much contracted. A small 11 ulcerated aperture was discovered in this part; and led, in a fistulous form, through a . substance nearly equal in size to the little finger, to the external wound.” (p. 328.) It has been well observed by Key, that “cases are sometimes met with in which thet- patient appears to be doing well after the operation, the evacuations being free and natural,, and the sickness and pain subsiding ; but after the lapse of two or three days the powers ■ begin to sink, the abdomen, though not very tense, is uneasy under pressure, the pulseoji small and quick, and the tongue becomes dry and coated. This condition is, perhaps,- j protracted for several days, and the patient at length dies. A post mortem inspections discovers the cause of death in the dark colour and lacerable condition of the strangulated J portion of the bowel and the vascular state of the surrounding parts. This unexpected^ termination of a case, when it does occur, usually takes place in patients of enfeebled jj constitution, whose powers are unequal to the restoration of the healthy circulation icu the strangulated bowel after its release from the stricture; and in whom, therefore, in slight degree of inflammation gradually ends in the extinction of its vitality. At thM period of the operation the intestine ,wlien exposed, presents none of the usual indicatiom i of present or approaching gangrene ; no infiltration of its tissues, no discoloration beyoDC j that which retarded circulation in a healthy bowel produces, no lack of peritoneal lustrej and no lacerability of texture ; it in no point appears to differ from those cases of stran: gulation, in which an early operation is had recourse to before severe symptoms comut on, and in which a favourable prognosis is verified by a rapid convalescence. Exposur i Kind. Sex. Ago. Duration. 1335. I. Aug. 17 tight scrotal, not small. Male . 43 From childhood, N but not con- genital. 1336. 11. May 10 Left direct scrotal, (also on other side,) size of pigeon’s egg. Male . 73 15 ycurs ... - III. Oct. 29 Scrotal, large as child’s head of two years. Male . 45 19 yenre .... 1337. IV. Jan. 24 Scrotal, left, (also on other side,) size of an orange. Mule . 82 40 yenrs, (incarce- rated. ) V. Sept. 24 Femoral, right dou- ble sac. Female SO 9 years .... 1830. VI. Sept. 27j Scrotal, right, as large as a pear. Mule . 46 2 years .... Tabular View of Operati( Strangu- lation. Vomiting. Constipa* 11$ hours Seven hours, . Not mem little. how In * 3 days . Constant . . 3 dap Symptoms not urge-1 Four years cup- truss. 4 days . None . 3 days • Much • For some time . |36 hours . Slight . . . (Symptoms of strangulation scarce, so that I did not operate for 24 hours.) 4 days ^ 3 dap 24 hou rail} sincr cl}> * Upon these coses I operated in St. 1 homos s Hospital during the nrst lour ana a nan quent severe illness has twice broken in on me, and prevented me keeping so regular an account i from such tables.—J. F. S.FOR STRANGULATED RUPTURE. 51 f a portion of bowel possessing such feeble powers of resistance to morbid influence uiuot but tend to increase, probably to excite, a disposition to inflammation; which, mush low in degree, is sufficient to destroy its vitality : and it may therefore be fairly ■<nirded as the main agent in the production of gangrene.” With this explanation I uiuot agree; the mischief has been done to the bowel, or at least its foundation is laid, . believe^ before the sac is opened, by the disturbance of the circulation during the rangula'tion, from which the bowel has not power to recover itself; and according as e stagnation of the blood has existed for a shorter or longer time, and to a less or eater'extent, so does the mischief run on subsequently to inflammation and gangrene. J. F. S. ;«in cases in which great depression of the powers is observed to precede the opera- •n,” continues Key, “ death sometimes rapidly takes place without any other obvious use than the exposure of the bowel. The condition of the patient is often found to be inifestly worse after the operation, and stimulants are obliged to be plentifully admi- 1 tered, in order to sustain the sinking powers of life. This may happen without i lamination of the abdominal cavity or gangrene of the bowel; and is attributable solely i the depressing effect of the operation. The pulse, which before the operation was ble, becomes fluttering, and scarcely perceptible; the countenance, which was anxious, [.v bespeaks the approach of death; the skin is covered with a clammy moisture, and , whole frame is seized with a restlessness that gradually ends in the calmness of solution.” (p. 51-4.) Istley Cooper mentions the very remarkable circumstance of tetanus follow- the operation for rupture, on the eighth day, by which the patient was speedily droyed (a).] (n) Above cited, p. 58. trangulatecl Rupture. * Contents. Bowels moved. Result. Eight inches gut only, bright and turgid, thickened. Freely within an hour. Cured. Sac divided by vertical septum, omentum be- fore, gut behind ; two inches gut, bright cho- colate-coloured. After 24 hours free mo- tion from repeated clysters; the bowels continued to be moved, but though assisted with stimulants and nourishment, he gra- dually sunk. Died on ninth day ; in- testine at mouth of sac still dark-coloured, little inflammation. Half yard of intestine, front half of which chocolate and thick- ened, other unaltered ; also large mass of omentum. A slight motion from clysters after 24 hours ; after same interval, and castor oil and clyster, bowels moved freely. Cured (stricture not tight.) Much adhering omen- him, almost schirrous; a small portion of colon healthy. In eight hours after two clysters some scybola came away. Next morning he had culo- mcl aud castor oil, nnd the bowels were freely moved. Cured (stricture none, I but without dilating.) Bit of ommtum, size of a walnut, in little sac ; four inches choc, in- shining, but slightly adherent, nnd much matted omen- tum in large sac. An hour after, the bowelB very freely opened, anu again three hours after. Cured (stricture not very r tight.) Three inches chocolate, with a little patch «.f adhesive; no omen- tum. Within eight hours after twice castor oil, very copious motions. Cured (stricture very C tight.) 'en demess. Additional Remarks. little, or rupture if much, with •i dial pain and j&i »h from first Bunich continued Kj d day after ope- » and pain in e eased. It. ire, probably ( ttempts at re- ture a little . ft ly ; has had throughout j F ; tendemenH • *cc<md day. ><dly nor m Large quantity of fat between cremaster and sac. 1 wounded intestine in open- ing sac with knife. minrsh size of rupture by aj>- plication of ice, but without avail. The dresser had also given tartar emetic. The omentum was left. The gut came down again on ninth day, in getting out of bed, but slowly returned. before oueration without be- nefit. Dilated the stricture und left the gut, but tore and cu t off omentum. Pro- bably in th’B case the colon, together with its peritoneal connexion to the iliac pit, descended, but 1 did not notice this at the operation. lie larger piece of omentum was cut off. eued. P^7^b?SreiumraUtcontin^0b8-"ei<1 that f°r H,ne "hole ycar 1 hn<1 not 11 ctis anU conlinue a similar one. as I am convinced of the advantage whtl 0-- case. Subse- aclvantage which accrues E 252 TABULAR VIEW OF OPERATIONS53 FOR STRANGULATED RUPTURE. ■ftnderness. lower port of belly, the swelling. Omentum in labium soft, but in true sac firm and matted; in true sac knuckle of bright gut. in belly, tender- > of rupture. Within first nine hours the bowels thrice spar- ingly relieved by clys- ter. She went on very well, but the bowels were not satisfactorily moved till four days after the operation, al- though she had calo- mel and opium twice a-day, with occasional castor oil and senna and salts. Two inches gut dark- Bowels moved by clyster coloured, bright. and castor oil freely between 12 and 16 I ttle pain in belly II ten pressed. j i pain in belly, and ■ : relieved by the •ration ; no pain nor in swelling. , 1 ing tender but not tenderness, he belly. b pain in belly •1 pain in belly; after ation complained min about navel, :h did not subside. P^inhvbelly, with Contents. Bowels moved. Cured, (stricture very tight.) Healthy, bright, and dark coloured gut. Much adhering omen- tum, four inches of intestine very dark, but shining. Sac divided by transverse band ; hard mass of omentum, adherent in upper portion ; eight incites of dark choco- late bright intestine. Very small knuckle of dark-coloured bright gut. Large knuckle of dark gut, very tense, and peritoneal coat seemed cracked. Half yard of gut, not deep-coloured, but much thickened and slightly ccchymosed. hours after operation. Nine hours after .ope- ration bowelB freely moved by clyster. A few scybola brought away by clyster 22 hours after operation, but nothing more. Result. The inside of the sac had pro- bably burst, and allowed the gut to escape into the labium. Cured, (stricture at in- ternal ring very tight, and like movable membranous ring.) Cured, (stricture tight.) Died 18 hours, (stricture very firm.) Bowels relieved of thin motion 30 hours after operation, not without calomel and opium every two hours seven times ; a single dose of calomel ana clysters had previously been useless. Three hours after opera- tion a few small scybola after clyster, but after castor oil the bowels were freely moved dining the day ; purg- ing came on on third day. Bowels twice moved within 12 hours by castor oil. Within 24 hours his bowels freely moved by clyster ; after which they continued tole- rably regular. Calo- mel and opium were given every six hours, and when his powers began to fail, brandy and arrow-root. Mass of healthy omen- tum adherent, small bit of reddened but not dark gut, size of top of thumb. Died 48 hours, (stricture not tight.) Died 65 hours, (stricture very tight.) Cured, (stricture very tight.) Died six days after, (stricture not tight, but required division,, as also a band below it.) The bowels were not moved till a few hours before dcuth. Fetid smell on opening the sac. Thcadherinmomentum was left alone. The vomit- ing continued after the ope- ration almost to the last. On examination, the intes- tine gangrenous, with mark of separation; intestines si ightly glued. Fetid smell before opening the sac. A deep tough band of cellular tissue indented the hernial sac, which also had a corresponding deep fold. Vomiting continued till death. On examination, the intestine dirty clay-colour; no peritonitis. No account of examination. Died 36 hours, (stricture tight.) Additional Remarks. The scrotum very large, much reddened, probably from efforts and crackling. Much difficulty in returning gut on account of its thickness. In course of the second day hiccough came on, anil some sickness, which sub- sided,but came on next day, and frequently after to the last. Nor was it checked but slightly by hydrocyanic acid. On examination, all the intestines were found glued together; strangu- lated gut not restored ; sup- puration between cremaster and sue. She was, when first seen, very much depressed, and tho surface cold. Three or four ounces of straw-coloured fluid escaped from the belly after reduction, immedi- ately on tho return of the gut. The omentum left in sac. Calomel and opium were ordered directly after the operation on account of tho pain and tenderness of the belly. Egg and brandy, and other nourishment were given without avail. Slight peritonitis; onlv a portion of intestinal tube, size of sixpence, had been stran- gulated, and lay juBt above mouth of sue.[ 54 ] Second Chapter.—OF ABDOMINAL RUPTURES IN PARTICULAR. I.—Of Inguinal Rupture. (Hernia inguinalis, Lat.; LeistenbrucJi, Germ.; Hernie inguinale, Bubonocele, Fr.): J Campert, P., leones herniarum inguinalium, edit, a S. Th. Soemmerring. Francof, j 1801. Cooper, Astley, The Anatomy and Surgical Treatment of Abdominal Hernia, i I Part i. Rudtorffer, F. X., Abhandlung iiber die einfacliste und sicherste Operationsme- -lj thode eingespenter Leisten-und Schenkelbriiche ; nebst einem Anhange merkwiirdiger, auf den operative!! Theil der Wundarzneikunst sich beziehender Beobactungen. Wien, J| 1805. 8vo. 2 vols,; with eight plates. Hesselbach, F. C., Anatomisch-chirurgische Abhandlung liber den Ursprung der dj Leistenbriiche. Wurzburg, 1806. 8vo. , neueste anatomisch-pathologische Untersuchung iiber den Ur-j'-jj sprungund das Fortschreiten der Leisten und Schenkelbriiche. Wurzburg. 1815. 4to.;. jj with fifteen copper-plates. Wattmann, Ueber die Vorlagerungen in Leistengegend. Wien, 1815. Langenbech, Commentarius de structura peritonsei, testiculorum tunicis, eorumqne - j ex abdomine in scrotum descensu; ad illustrandam herniarum indolem. GottingjJJ 1817. fol. —— , Abhandlung von den Leisten-und Schenkelbriichen, enthaltend die < > anatomische Beschreibung und Behandlung der selben. Gotting., 1821; with eight: ^ copper-plates. Meckel, J. F., Tractatus de morbo hernioso congenito singulari et complicate I Berol., 1772. Sandifort, leones herni® inguinalis congenit®. L. B., 1788. 4to. Wrisberg, Observationes anatomic® de testiculorum ex abdomine in scrotum de-:' scensu, ad illustrandam in chirurgia de herniis congenitis utriusque sexus doctrinam; j in Comment. Soc. Reg. Scient. Gotting., 1778. Sinogowitz, Anleitung zu einer zwtekmassigen Mauualhiilfe bei eingeklemmten Leisten und Schenkeibriichen. Danzig, 1830. 8vo. Zahner, Chirurgische Anatomie der Bruchstellen am Unterleibe; inaug. ALhandU) Erlangen, 1833. Hammond, William, Anatomy and Surgery of Inguinal and Femoral Herni*. r London, 1834. fol. Also the writers before mentioned. 1185. Inguinal Rupture passes through the abdominal ring (annulus abdominalis) ; it may be either Scrotal. (Hernia scrotalis, Lat. ; Hodcn- } sackbruch, Germ.; Oscheocele, Fr.,) when descending into the scrotum, or I, Labial, (Hernia labii pudendi externi, Lat. ; Bruch der dusserer Schaamiii Uppe, Germ. ; lleruie des grundes tevres, Fr.,) when passing into the labium. 1186. The front or outer abdominal ring is the external opening ofwiH, inguinal canal, (canalis inguinalis,) and is formed by the tendon ol i the external oblique muscle stretching from the upper front spine of the < hip-bone to the pubic symphysis, (Poupart’s ligament, or the extern4 1 inguinal ligament of Hesselbach,) where the iibres separating, attach | themselves by one part (the inner pillar of the ring) to the pubic sy>»- j55 ANATOMY OF INGUINAL RUPTURE. physis, and by the other (the outer pillar of the ring') to the spine of the share-bone. A triangular opening is thus formed, of which the share- bone is the base, and the point inclining upwards and outwards is the junction of the two pillars. By the splitting of the muscular fibres of the internal oblique abdominal muscle, the junction of its tendon with that ot the transverse muscle, forms the other part of the inguinal canal. The internal opening of the inguinal canal {hinder or inner abdominal ring) is formed by an aponeurosis, (thefascia transversalis of Coopek, the internal inguinal ligament of Hesselbacii, the external layer of the peritoneum of Langenbeck,) commencing from the hinder edge of Poupart’s liga- ment, which seems to twist itself upwards and backwards. This aponeurosis loses itself above in the cellular tissue which overspreads the inner surface of the transverse muscle, and is continued to the under surface of the !' diaphragm. Internally it arises from the outer edge of the tendon of the straight muscle, which unites with it, and therefore at this part it i is strongest. here the strong fibres of this aponeurosis ascend obliquely outwards over the femoral vessels, they form an oblong aperture for the > passage of the spermatic cord (which, according to Cloquet, is covered by this aponeurosis, to the testicle, where it is connected to the vaginal ' tunic) (1). The inguinal canal is directed from without and above, inwards and downwards, as it passes from the hinder or inner to the front or outer ring and is from one inch and a quarter, to an inch and a half long. Its fiont wall is formed by Poupart’s ligament, and a small part of the internal buliXtSTw 5 ltSihmd yf1 imvards and upwards by the delicate fleshy Ii the mnfle u! I™™1*’ below and without, by the fascia transversalil In the male the spermatic cord passes through the inguinal canal, and is surrounded besides by the process of the transverse fascia, by cellular tissue, and covered by the cremaster muscle, (the lengthened fibres of the internal oblique muscle,) the general vaginal tunic, (tunica vaginalis com- ? Langenbeck,) a process of the externalfayer of the with r pltat 6 external.surface of the external oblique muscle is covered ... V* delicate aponeurotic expansion considered to be a process of the ■n. fascue latce femons, and which spreads over the front inguinal rino- and the spermatic cord {tunica dartos, fascia superficial^ of Cooper (2) " ?\ery arises frora the external iliac above Poupvrt’s -Meiinguinalri”J £A"“mb.l.cal artery, opposite the front or oAikseuSch Where he I'T5810'1’ Pil> M" covered only by the weaker narts^ TT’ t0War,s the external ring, lelicate bundL £^ ^ ^ P"» ruptures, boll, ingnfn.l and'fem.ral, 5 far less difficult either to dissect o/descH^/^^08 S° de?rly :ls might be; for it uissect or descnbe tlian commonly considered. At the56 KINDS OF onset it must be remembered that it is not a tendinous, but merely a cellular mem- branous structure, much condensed, and connecting the whole hind surface of the abdo- minal muscles with the front of the peritoneum. It is not part nor process of Pou- part’s ligament, but simply attached to it by one of its processes, whilst the other descends behind it, the former commonly called the iliac, and the latter the pubic por- tion of the fascia transversalis. The iliac portion commences by a sharp angle at the outside of the pubic spine, and ascends outwards, closely attached to the back and upper edge of Poupart’s ligament to the upper front spine of the hip-bone, gradually increas- ing in width, and having a scythe-like shape, with the edge upwards and inwards, to the middle of that ligament, where it suddenly spreads upwards and is interposed between the back of the abdominal muscles and the front of the peritoneum, and is said to be lost on the diaphragm, which, however, is not really the case, for it continues as the con- nector of the peritoneum with that muscle, and then descending upon the front of the loins connects it with the lumbar muscles, and runs down upon the iliacus muscle on either side, between them and the peritoneum, and having attained those regions assumes the name of fascia iliaca, where for the present it must be left. I have said that the iliac portion of the fascia transversalis was scythe-shaped to the middle of Poupart’s ligament, and it is there, about an inch in depth. It then runs inwards and descends behind the lower part of the straight muscles, is fixed to the back of the pubic bones, as far as their spines, spreads out on either side beyond them, behind and connected but slightly with the scythe-like portion, up to the upper front spine of the hip-bone ; this from its attachment is called the pubic portion of thefascia transversalis, and its shape is more sickle-like, with the concavity upwards and outwards. The sudden turning inwards and downwards, and afterwards outwards and upwards of the pubic portion unconnected, or but loosely connected with the iliac portion of the fascia transversalis, leaves a gap about an inch and a half above Poupart’s ligament, the hinder or inner abdominal ring, which has a sort of oval shape, or rather like the periphery of the vertical section of a pear. That part of the pubic portion from below the inner ring to the spine of the share- bone, and behind the scythe edge of the iliac portion of the fascia transversalis, alone forms the floor or back of the inguinal canal, down to the upper edge of the external ring, but between this and its connexion to the spine, and symphysis of the share-bone, it is strengthened by the lower ends of the conjoined tendons of the internal oblique ' and transverse muscles, which descend in front of and closely connected with it, to be fixed from the spine to the symphysis of the share-bone, and thus together they shut like a window-shutter against the back of the external ring. A little shallow triangular groove extends from the internal to the external ring formed by the scythe edge of the iliac portion in front, and the pubic portion of the fascia transversalis behind, and in this as in a gutter lies the spermatic cord or the round ligament. It must not be supposed that the inner ring is an actual aperture, except during the descent of the testicle, and then indeed it is only the orifice of a cellular pouch thrust down below the pouch of the peritoneum, which subsequently forms the vaginal tunic of the testicle ; and when, after the arrival of that organ in the scrotum, the peritoneum upon the cord gradually closes and thins, so likewise does the pouch of the transversalis fascia, forming the fascia of the cord, described by Astley Cooper long before Cloquet’s account of it. In addition to this fascia from the inner ring a similar funnel of cellular tissue from the outer ring is given off as the cord passes through it, and the two fascia so called become confounded into one below, between the external ring and the testicle. (2) The superficial fascia or aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle is not tendi- nous, but merely the cellular tissue which connects the skin with the front of the abdominal muscles, and descends upon the spermatic cord and testicle to connect them with the skin of the scrotum.—J. F. S.] 1187. At these two points inguinal ruptures are formed, and upon the difference in their origin depends their division into external and internal or oblique and direct of English Surgeons.) 1188. External or Oblique Inguinal Rupture (Hernia inguinalis ex- terna, Lat. ; Aiissere Leistenbruch, Germ.; Hernie inguinale extern» Fr.) commences at the seat of the obliterated canal of the vagina™ tunic, or the intestines pass into the canal itself, which remains partially or completely open. This rupture proceeds from above and without,INGUINAL RUPTURE. 57 inwards and downwards, in the direction of the spermatic cord, as a cylin- drical swelling; the spermatic cord lies on its inner hinder side, and the epigastric artery passes under the neck of the hernial sac and upon its inner side; if it be returned, a peculiar gurgling is heard. 1189. Internal or Direct Inguinal Rupture (Hernia inguinalis interna, Lat.; Innere Leistenbruch, Germ.; Hernie inguinale interne, Fr. ■ Ventro-inguinal Hernia of Cooper) passes out of the inguinal pit directly from within outwards through the external inguinal ring ; it has a peculiar i rounding, a short neck; it raises the inner pillar of the abdominal rino- considerably; the spermatic cord lies on the outer side of the swelling” no gurgling is heard on its return. 6 ’ 119°. The symptoms by which external and internal inguinal ruptures are distinguished from each other, are only certain at the commencement ' ot their existence, and whilst they have yet no great size. When the external inguinal rupture has become very large, it completely loses its cy mdrical form, its oblique narrow neck, and passes directly out of the cavity of the belly. The position of the spermatic cord in old ruptures is equally various; not unfrequently are the vessels separated from each other by the pressure of the swelling. 1191. External or oblique inguinal rupture passes through the hinder (inner) lnguina! ring into the general vaginal tunic, and may descend (o the testicle, the proper vaginal tunic of which it touches. Its own XLT?V tW°reare’ 1 • thf- ^ °f the ™rotum; 2, the fascia super- 4read ’the’ ^ c°mmunts> uPon upper surface of which spread the fibies of the cremaster muscle ; 4, the hernial sac itself an unnatural lengthening of the peritoneum, covered on its outer surface vvith In 0ld ruptures ,hese ia>’ers are of‘“ “f consider- front h,linieSi the fternal ingUinal rUPture does not Pass through the fiont inguinal ring, but remains lying in the inguinal canal • it is ttmr, n n 1 developed inguinal If lure (R^ure in Si ill 5 laial of E„g lsh Surgeons > It forms in (above) the middle of PourlTrt S „ 'C |’r':) 1'? arural arteiT' a round or obliquely oval swelliL CioS arger 7 ?ou«hi"g. accompanied with an unpleS ”Cfinge/witZ *!«*?* and easily thrust bach on appSfo, dready mentioned, this is covered with the front wall of the °bli« “d tha ~ ii myirfist °f ‘h,! ^ - ->» « luscular edge of the internal oblinfe * upPer 0r lnternal abdominal ring, the Rapper J muscles sliP* back, and rests^pon mptr ,w undies of the internal ohlim,« nJtJZTJ'.fT™011*’ and the thin undies of the internal oblimie ■7° tranfversalis, and the thin ie fascia transversalis • it drive" rl 1Una.+ mu®cde> or protrudes with it ie scrotum, and if it sink lower tf "7 external *0 the vaginal tunic into fore or outer^art oTtliV^dy of t^herm^rsac*. ^ThTan^ngs58 CONGENITAL INGUINAL RUPTURE, of this rupture are, 1, the skin of the , 2 the ,> 3 sometimes some bundles of the cremaster muscle (a), 4, sometimes tne tkZeT/aZ (4) ; 5, the hernial sac, with its external surface covered with loose cellular tissue. ... (.) As long ns intera.l inguinal ".p.™ is ». fnr.fr- SST? SiSSTof th5e cremaster may appear o» ih bene.lh which “ be .he case, and the cause why the ia.ernal inguinal rupture can never attain the size of the externa . 1193. It must be considered as a strong disposition '“SK The ileum is the most common intestine hi^ these ruptures of the cecum and colo?i, part bes externa y in the belly it had lain ^Hown however or under part of its calibre is 1 , ’ t lies in front, in which ! the intestine often twists, so t. - The omentum commonly case the rupture seems to have no hernial sac. I heomen^ ^ £ passes into an inguinal rupture, especi J ^ bladder sometimes internal inguinal rupture a lwrtr°2^/ l“7are cases, in women, rupture depends, in^>>0 contingance of the testicle in the external special causes ,—Jirst, on ti e & disposition to be obli- inguinal ring, because t ien e vag ‘ always favoured by respiration terated ; second, after biitli tneprouus 11 . J vadhesi0n of the testicle and by the action of the abdominal muscles , ’ L ;tc descent or if the hi *• ,-hf S^n«n^ by the early gradual elongation of the peritoneum.DISTINCTION OF INGUINAL RUPTURE FROM HYDROCELE. 59 1197. The coverings of congenital inguinal, are the same as those of external or oblique inguinal rupture, except that the hernial sac is formed by the tunica vaginalis propria. In rare cases a second lengthening of the peritoneum may descend into the still open canal of the vaginal tunic, by which the intestines descending into this sac are sepaiated from the testicle (a). The congenital inguinal rupture is mostly intestinal, because the omentum is very short ; it may however contain a portion of omentum if it have been adherent to the testicle in the belly (1). Narrowing of the hernial sac occurs most frequently in congenital inguinal ruptures, and consequently often several nearly perfectly closed hernial sacs are formed (V). [(1) This is Astley Cooper’s Encysted Hernia of the Tunica Vaginalis, in which “ on opening the tunica vaginalis, instead of the intestine being found lying in contact with the testicle, a second bag or sac is seen enclosed in the tunica vaginalis, and enve- loping the intestine. This bag is attached to the orifice of the tunica vaginalis, and descends from thence into its cavity ; it generally contracts a few adhesions to the tunica vaginalis, whilst its interior bears the character of a common hernial sac.” Cooper considers that in this case “ the tunica vaginalis, after the descent of the testicle, becomes closed opposite the abdominal ring, but remains open above and below it. The intestine descends into the upper part, and elongates both the adhesion and tunica vaginalis, so as to form it into a bag, which, descending into the tunica vaginalis below the adhesion, and becoming narrow at its neck, though wide at its fundus, receives a portion of intes- tine. * * * The disease does not appear like hernia of the tunica vaginalis, as the testis is not involved in it, but can be distinctly perceived below it. * * * The strangulation arises from the contracted state of the mouth of the hernial sac.” (p. 79-80.)] 1198. Various swellings which occur in the inguinal region must be distinguished from ruptures ; such are hydrocele, varicocele, inflammatory swelling of the spermatic cord, arrest of the testicle at the abdominal ring, collections of fat in the cellular tissue of the spermatic cord, collection of pus. 1199. It is hardly possible to mistake a collection of water in the tunica vaginalis propria for a rupture. If the hydrocele be large, it may extend up to the abdominal ring and seem to penetrate within it, but if the swelling be drawn a little down, it will be seen that it does not lie in it, and that the ring is in its natural condition. In hydrocele the swelling ascends gradually towards the abdominal ring. The functions of the intestinal canal are undisturbed; lying on the back and coughing have no effect on the swelling. Congenital hydrocele, where indeed water is collected in the canal of the vaginal tunic, has greater resemblance to rupture ; however, the consistence of the swelling, its transparency, its more easy or more difficult reduction, its quicker or slower reprotrusion, give the explanation (1). The diffused collection of water in the cellular tissue of the spermatic cord (Hydrocele tunicce vaginalis communis) has the greatest resemblance to an omental rupture. The swelling which ori- ginates along the spermatic cord is broader below than above, seems to diminish on slight pressure, though it recurs immediately the pressure is withdrawn on lying down and standing up. If there be fluctuation, it is only at the bottom ; if the bottom of the swelling be pressed, the fluid gently rises towards the apex, and expands it. If the swelling be within the abdominal ring, it stretches it; the patient often feels a pain at some part, and a dragging in the loins. As a distinctive character from omental rupture, it must be remembered that hydrocele of the cord has less con- (a) Hky, Practical Observations in Surgery. I.ondon, 1814, p. 226.—Cooper, Astley, above Meckel, Handbuch der Pathologischen Anatomie, vol. ii. pt. i. p. 879. (b) Ciiei.ius, Ueber Verengerung des Bruch- snckesboi angeborncn Brfichen ; in neuen Chiron, vol. i. pt. i.—Liman, Beobnchtungen iiber das normwidrige Verhalten des Bruchsackes; in Jour- nal von Giiaefe und von Waltheu, vol. v. pt. i. p. 97.60 INGUINAL RUPTURE FEIGNED BY sistence and a less irregular surface than omental rupture ; it is also somewhat broader at the base, whilst m omental rupture the contiaiy occurs (a). rm Although hydrocele of the common kind, namely, that in the vagmalcoyering SlXSie preTentsTvery good example of the usual occurrences m this hospS. The «wellm| “ ETthe mS”! Ito”e1t°.be -very tender to the 'tou^AP t°^ yt arent- From these circumstances I eras led to Se»^ t^^^SSSiStSSS^iZ. a.dPa. thl end of a fortnight haAbnoy!eaged^shears, was brought to ^ hospital^ ^ ^ worn a truss for several May5,1838, considered to have strangulatedL ri P • H b ^ ^ vomited several of the testicle ; it is fiim, but in e P tigf myseff as to the existence of any abdominal rim"kenlitn.n-o ■ what I should suppose a burst 5$SeSigh” £me His mother toot him away, promising to hnng h.m hack, bn. he never returned. received into the hospital, and as in it, testicle, and carrying; down with i the to me to be the case in of the61 AND ACCOMPANIED WITH HYDROCELE. Sometimes a rupture is accompanied with a common hydrocele below it; but in more rare cases the hydrocele is in front of the rupture, and generally is not discovered till the operation is performed, when it is liable to produce confusion, and make the operator suppose he has mistaken the case. Thomas Blizard appears to have been the first person who observed hydrocele in front of an inguinal rupture. His patient had been subject to bubonocele on the right side upwards of six years, and he had almost constantly worn a truss. During the last two years of this period, a swelling of the testicle on the same side, which seems to have been hydrocele, occurred, but after a few months disappeared, and left the testicle wasted and drawn up to the groin. “ When first called to him,” says Blizard (a), “ I found a small bubonocele on the right side, and could distinctly feel the testis of the same side, but very small, lying at the bottom of the hernia, having an inclination forwards. * * * Twenty hours after the descent I performed the operation. Having dissected down to a membrane, which I considered to be the hernial sac, I punctured it at the upper part, and then laid it open its whole length. It extended within the ring, which to obtain room for examination, I dilated. Upon further inquiry, I found the hernia was situated more deeply, and that the membrane which I had laid open was the tunica vaginalis testis, extended by the hydrocele, which had entirely disappeared. I then of course dissected through this tunica vaginalis at the posterior part, and laid open the hernial sac, which contained a portion of intestine nearly black from strangulation.” The stricture was at the mouth of the sac. “ In this case the hernia must have been behind the cord.” (p. 66.) Another example of this kind occurred to the younger Cline shortly after, and is men- tioned by Astley Cooper (b). I witnessed this operation. “ On making an incision, into that which was supposed to be the hernial sac, a fluid similar to that of hydrocele escaped, which it afterwards proved to be, for it was the tunica vaginalis which had been opened ; on dilating this opening a little, a tumour presented itself, which was afterwards tound to befromjtli to Jthof an inch thick, which, being dissected through, a fluid resem- bling the first m colour, but of a fetid smell, came out. This tumour was found to be the tunica vaginalis of the cord, but much altered from the natural appearance by a quan- to*1 bad been effused, which gave it the appearance of India rubber; the rnlwR6 «ad adheFid firmly to the adjacent parts, and the stricture was divided with ^on) the finger. Mr. Cline thought it not advisable to attempt to break through the adhesions, so as to return the intestine, lest it might bring on a dangerous degree of ^nn^011,’ Cp-V-> He did well. These caJs are not so uncommon as formerly pp ed, and many o- oui Museums in London possess two or more examples.—J. F. S. J 1200. Varicocele, when it has attained considerable size, has indeed some resemblance to omental rupture, the abdominal ring is not, however stretched; the several strings of the swollen vessels are felt; if the swell- ing be compressed for a few moments between the fingers, without thrusting it back towards the belly, it almost entirely disappears; the whole mass of fh! S'01? see™s expanded into varicose vessels. In doubtful cases, let finJr rMbe k? °n Vs back’ return the swelling, and press with the 2 \ he abdominal nnff 5 this pressure will, when he rises, be thfflow off 1pre,Vent tJe Protrusion of the intestine, but not to suppress the How of blood into the spermatic vessels. 11 sDonmnpn!|flarat0ry swellin£ of the spermatic cord be developed spontaneously, the diagnosis is doubtful, so much the more, if injuries Sce° hil ■ °"'S’ a2d ‘he like’ which e<>ually ruptures, pro- aMontel rinamT'°”-, ISuC!' inflammatory swelling passes through the witli tin. • *?r’ < eS<??nf S t(? the testicle, which seems as it were confused inoni'noi „S»We i ln°’ ^ 19 Mastic, painful, and manifestly inclosed by the nguinal cana . fever comes on, the bowels may be drawn in to partici- »r°Yf theiVeh;ef’ disp0siti0n t0 vesting and "he iSfare were a rnnt SUC i th? dta9nosis is more difficult, if previously tliere exjjted the*inflammtionaof^tlw1cord!ran^,1^ate^ by ““ injury ',llicl' l,as (a) Asti.ey Cooper, above cited. (6) Above cited.62 FAT-RUPTURES. 1 9()9 When the testicle only, at a late period, descends through the inguinal canal, or never descended lower than the extein ,?’ ■ downward into the scrotum, turned, and appeared somewhat llk«afe“°^ 0f the Royal College of Surgeons; JSST.1?Ih'S. instance of a ™pm» - the tng.tnal canal in which the testicle also is still remaming.-J. F. S.j ,203. Fat may be collected in project from the aM°mi»l ™>S> otherwise is Accompanied with scrotum, and toim a sw e , f f t anse upon the rfly tUTnXTo the V n« in this enlargement the fat front or hind surtace oi cue j . ,, rrntum and drags the peri- descends through may be formal on ruptures, ZA A A the case, can be r^ed. ^ Collections of fat upon the surface °i^ror ftTOngK(TmS apertures of the line, through the interspaces ° tbe w|ite line, they rarely attain any belly. If these swellings be situated at oi up that 0f an egg. Some fatty considerable size ; us 11 ally tUeir sl^e^f ®ce.rqf1 the peritoneum, are. gradually received into granules, deposited on the outer surtace or of the tendinous aponeurosis, one of the little openings or c b,Jome converted into a swelling with a neck where they by degrees grow and the neck surrounded by the fibres of the root of which is attached to the yjemo/ifi! usually firmer when the aponeurosis, and the bottom spread beneath ^skin.^1 hey^a ^when small? and penetrating through ai small p g. seem t0 be reduced and got rid of, large, aud increasing without restia t. « J to which they are subject not hut often they are immovable JhecoottMg gg 8 Uoneum at that part where unfrequently produces. a surrounded by a fluty swelling, they arise, and thus they present a sac like ext f this danger, however, which, according to Velpeau, may ^“Siaerible quantity of fat is found aroundthe Pelletan states, does not happen w in,r the entrance of intestine or omentum into soft swelling, for the purpose of p e> . frequently surrounded with this elevation of the peritoneum J f^smnedmes also contain cysts. The fatty membranes which present perfect coatees illconveni01iCe, and often remain unob- ruptures usually produce Tieithe p n lengthen deeply into the duplicature of served throughout the who e hfe , hi J le^ produce great inconvenience, hy however, loses all wlien it descends through the inguinal cana ■ swelling was attached e J P scrotum, the peritoneum was drawn J STe51 The ““ rn's Memoir.63 DIVISION OF STRICTURE. in its vaginal tunic, being doubly covered by the peritoneum, to the one part of which it is firmly and to the other loosely attached. This sometimes also occurs when the fat rupture passes out by any other of the natural openings in the belly. Although how" ever, fat ruptures be found in the scrotum without any peritoneal covering, the perito neum is more or less withdrawn or not at all connected with them, if they be merely collections of fat in the cellular tissue of the spermatic cord. Although the cavities formed by the double lengthening of the peritoneum do not close, but communicate with the cavity of the belly, as does the cavity of the vaginal tunic in congenital rupture vet the fatty mass usually fills the sac so completely, that very rarely does intestine of omentum descend with it and complicate the case. The distinction of this fat-runture from true rupture is often very difficult. Its gradual growth, and its freedom from nain on pressure, even when very considerable, are characteristic symptoms: but their resemolance to omental ruptures has even deceived the most experienced practitioners If severe colic or the like accompany such swelling, a mistake is the more easy, and is only fiist discoveied in the operation (Scarpa, Crcvelhier, Ollivier.) Compare also on this subject Morgagni, De sedibus et causis Morborum, Epist xlv art. 10. Epist. 1. art. 34. F aiv. Pelletan, Clinique chirurgicale, vol. iii. p. 33. JSefSes^r^MS?” GXt~S 8U **ritoine> ^ P«™nt PhUadlJhffi,' I8132CyClOP8edia °f Pl’aCt‘ Medicine aud Surgery, edited by Isaac Hays. 1204. Collections of pus which pass along the spermatic cord, out at the ibdominal ring may diminish or disappear in the supine posture and increase on coughing and any other exertion ; the fluctuation, the presence f symPtoms of psoas abscess or of caries of the vertebral column may however, guide the practitioner. mW’ ,l.2?5‘ Infuinal ruptures must be returned in the same direction bv which they have protruded, that is, the external or oblique from below upwards, and from within outwards; and the internal or direct from ioLUPrrds and dlrec% from before backwards. ’ . 1 i'b- hor the purpose of keeping the rupture up, a truss with a semi lrcular spring which closely surrounds one half of the pelvis is best r ■ short neck the ^Pture with •here the swellint ^ commenced above the abdominal ring- tcer.aine.1 by fell "0t continued till it has O not lie upon the hernial !ae '^v/ "'1,3‘l'er the 3r8™atie cord do or 'c opening may be made boldlv T, i fr" 13 mucll ',a(er i,J the sac, oned, (par 1170 nf i • ,du a<hbtion to the signs already men- ■&, ill t is"? he™al Sac’ '"is ,e abdominal ring, the ring- camiot bl^ with th« pillars of ring cannot be penetrated before the opening of64 DIVISION OP STRICTURE IN INGUINAL RUPTURE. the sac with the point of the forefinger. If the hernial sac he thin, it can be torn, by seizing it with the forceps ; but if it be very thick, frequently a superficial layer only must be divided, by which it is rendered more transparent and rather bluish. In dividing the stricturing part, in well determined external or oblique inguinal rupture, the cut must be made outwards, towards the iliac spine, but in the internal or direct inguinal rupture, upwards and inwards; in those cases where it is doubtful of which kind the rupture is, directly upwards, parallel with the white line, so that the cut may form a right angle with the body of the share-bone. After the complete return of the intestine, the forefinger should be carried through the inguinal canal, into the belly, to ascertain that it is clear and that no portion of intestine remain in it. In imperfectly developed external inguinal rupture, if the strangulation be at the internal ring, the skin, the superficial fascia and the tendon of the external oblique muscle must be divided in the direction of the inguinal canal, outwards and upwards, and the seat of stricture cut into outwards and upivards. (1) On account of the circumstances already mentioned, (par. 1192,) it is always of importance before operating on an old scrotal rupture on the right side, to consider whether the rupture be formed by the cacttm or the beginning of the colon. Besides the size and long continuance of the swelling, its knotty condition excites suspicion, which is probable, if the rupture have been slowly produced. So long as it was in the ! groin it was returnable, but no longer ; at least it cannot he perfectly returned so soon as it has descended info the scrotum, when the patient, after digestion is ended, and a short time before the bowels are relieved, feels dragging and pressure in the rapture, as well j as frequently colicky pains, which subside after going to stool, and if there be in the right iliac region a hollow corresponding to the size of the rupture. In this rupture the j stricture only is to be divided, and the adherent intestine covered with compresses, j dipped in a mucilaginous fluid, by which in general it gradually returns into the belly. The various opinions upon the most proper direction for the cut into the stricture, in inguinal rupture, in order to avoid injuring the epigastric artery, have only by the correct : anatomical knowledge of its different origin, attained the proper explanation. The direction of the cut obliquely upwards and outwards, as proposed by Louis, Morand, | Sharp, Gunz, Pott, Bell, Sabatier, and others, is so far the most proper, as in external or oblique inguinal rapture the artery cannot be injured, and it is by far the most common, {par. 1194.) As in the direction of the cut obliquely upwards and inwards I towards the navel, according to Heister, Garengeot, Le Dran, Richter, Mohren- • 1 heim, Mursinna, and others; or inwards towards the symphysis, after Ludwig and i Ij Seiler, only in iuternal or direct inguinal rupture can the artery be avoided, but in E external rupture it can and must be wounded, if it he not granted that thereby really I only the internal pillar of the external inguinal ring shall be cut into. The direction ■ of the incision directly upwards, proposed by Franco, Dionis, Petit, Camper, Rouge- - I mont, and others, was for that occasion the safest, and Asti.ey Cooper (above cited,) ' j still considers it the most proper and safe in all cases. Chopart and Desault gave B the most important advice, always to make the cut towards the side opposite the position ■ m of the spermatic cord, advice, which the knowledge of the corresponding relative position I of the spermatic cord and spermatic artery, and a presumption of the various kinds of t ■ inguinal raptures, renders clear (2). S2B [(2) I do not think Chopart and Desault’s counsel is the best that can be taken, if-t| it mean anything more than a caution not to divide the spermatic vessels, which no one; B wmuld do but by the most gross carelessness Practically speaking, however, I can say.' | that 1 do not recollect having had or seen a single instance of operation interfered withbl by the position of the spermatic vessels, presuming that no pupil of Cline or Cooper I would think of dividing the stricture in strangulated inguinal rapture in any other >| direction than directly upwards, and neither to the right hand nor to the left. ForiJ whatever may be said, it is impossible, I believe, to distinguish, without actual dissection, I whether an inguinal rupture be oblique or direct, and therefore any deviation from the ■ directly upward division is hazardous.—J. F. S.] 1209. Congenital inguinal rupture, in regard to its treatment, agrees1:® (/i) Memoir.CONGENITAL RUPTURE IN THE FEMALE. 65 entirely with that of external or oblique rupture. The radical cure here takes place earlier, by the constant use of a truss, as the canal of the vaginal tunic has a natural disposition to close ; on which account strangu- lation mostly occurs from a stricture of this canal. The sac is often so contracted, even at its lower end, that the cavity of the vaginal tunic is entirely closed from the rest of the hernial sac. If a portion of intestine protrude with the testicle, it must be attempted carefully to draw down the testicle into the purse, and to keep up the rupture by the truss ; if the testicle remain at or in the external inguinal ring and will not descend, a truss, with a concave pad, must be carefully applied. Pressing back the testicle, recommended by many persons, is very painful and dangerous, as degene- ration of the testicle may be caused by the pressure of the truss. If the rupture adhere to the testicle, and keeping up the former be very painful, an operation and division of the adhesion is indicated. If strangulation be present and the operation necessary, (which even in the first days after birth may happen,) it must be performed with particular caution, that the testicle be taken care of. Any adhesion between the testicle and the pro- truded parts must be divided. If water as well as intestine be contained in the congenital rupture, it can be determined, after having returned it with the intestine, and putting the finger on the ring by raising the patient, when the wrater first, and then by coughing or the like, the intestine pro- trudes. If in these cases a truss be applied, in most, the water is gradually ibsorbed. 1-10. After completing the operation for inguinal rupture, and cleansing m.he wound, the edges of the skin should be brought together, with some nterrupted stitches, and between them strips of plaster applied, and covered with wadding; to the region of the inguinal canal a many-folded Tiangular compress is to be applied and kept in place with a T bandage. >e patient should lie in bed on his back, with his thighs drawn up towards ie belly, and supported by a bolster beneath the knees. The after- reatment is to be conducted by the rules already laid down. 1211. In the operation for inguinal rupture, without openinq the hernial after making the proper cut of the skin a small aperture is to be made ie tendon of the external oblique muscle, a little above the external ° ~inS\and a director introduced, with which it is sought to find ■ ° . s J1C. ure? and then it should be directed towards the outer or e rHrpSUinn/inf aiK t,he stricture divided with a knife introduced upon e mZL (KEY) ; ,T the hernial sac is t0 be drawn a little down, whilst sible in thprera‘S-ed hVl aSSXStant’and then the stricture being rendered 21V * PTng ° tfG tendon’ shou]d be divided (A. Cooper.) lino- of the S inguinal rupture may originate, in women, in the length- •thge word/ W " n sornetlmes accompanies the round ligament [Thi wheriothr,pare to €Tjeniiai the ^ sex. Uc«/,4and it cribed by Nuck (a) who called it a •aks of it by the name of 'a01 lo"gand not constant. Cloquet (&) in a rounded cul-de-sac of whieh^bp3*! avyhndrica1 tube terminating in a point I'trary, it is a little flask with a n tb Iea£th an(1 Slze varies; sometimes, on the I that he has “ found tli™! ,l i°WnefCk wblch communicates with the belly,” jmen of all ages.” (p. 41.) 1 0nIy ln female fatus> hut also in young girls and fctcn ’V'1' f“,ale’ A,-“» says (c) that . h' f0Und aide of tile ii^f jmculi,novis. ’ p- x- d<i rori‘on*l (O Monro, A., .Tlln., M.D., Morbid Anato,t,v of • tociiorch(>3 Anatomiqnea. ,B ,™“n, Gu,let>stomacli, and Intestines. Eclin- fOL. II "ur8bj loll. Svo.66 femoral rupture. canal deficient. * * * . In-on(: ^ad^froSe escape from the canal; in five it had, no ePresemblance to crural hernia. „ along the thigh, assuming to a g«at deg * must take the disease for crural hernia. In congenital inguinal hernia me risic is (pp. 514, 15.)] FEMORAL RUPTURE. _ . /• iiw L t ; Schenhelbruch, Germ.; Merocele, Herme {Hernia crurahs, femoralis, n pr ) I Vrolyk, G„ Arbeeldingdervatern ^elkemde ^ratie Jr^breuk by^annen srrii”i“Ar ope»u -»»•*» » SCM0NRO,atA., Observations on Crural Henna. Chapter III. in Edinburgh IS and Surgical Crural. Madrid, 1793_ 4“ ISTStrf" S'7n.wShod of Operating for fh. Femora, Hern., , Dr Beddoes. London, 1/95. 8vo. • pv^ron vol. ii. pt. i* B- Veber e,=Fm - — U Hoi f HZ Oeber den Sebenkelbrach in von fem.mie, on Bbescbet, Considerations anatom.gnes et p.thologtqnes Merocele. Paris, 1819. . , r»f the crural aren, ana r>'RESCldJiiXj M Liston, Robert, Memoir on tbejorm^tion «o ’ G'6“a> ” ^ enstehen^?nhis Neue Bibliothek, vol. n. pt. i. Schreger, Chirugische Versuche, vo . i. P-. ■ Mrurgicbe. Ediz. nuova, 1819c Scarpa, Antonio, Soil* Ernm Mmn Anatomi ^ ^ ^ ^ Supplement an The new articles translated into Drenon oy u Traite pratique des Hermes, &c. ^ . de hernia CruralL Lipsiffi, 1820. Watther W., Commentatio anatomico-chi g SL™ obUessnr,. Hernmo™r., of Boyer, Lawrence, Lanoenbeck., an o obUquely through Gt*4 Logier (c) describes a new kind °f ;^ ’ atedPby a portion of that ligame^ femoral ring. The epigastric and obtura** arteries originate from a common ^ nke a cord from the upper fronr 1214. Poupart s ligament , .. • f\xe(j, as already describee iliac spine, to the tt r11 (par. 1186.) Just as this Pgame 11 is attaChed along the spin- in breadth, so that by this bioartei I»o t ^ ^ ^ -nt; outwardly it SplUL>’ . 4n) ^i^V° '“(c) Archives Generates do Medecine, May, 1833- (V) per aussere Schenkelbruch; in Neue Chi- (e) Arc ron., vol. i. p. 91.67 ANATOMY OF FEMORAL RUPTURE. interims, and in. psoas magnus, so that only in the middle of Pou- part’s ligament, between the ilio-pectinean eminence, and the sharp edge of Gimbernat’s ligament, there remains an oblong opening, the femoral ring, (annulus cruralis, Lat. ; Schenkelring, Germ.; anneau crurale, Fr., the inner aperture for the femoral vessels of Hesselbach,) which contains the femoral vessels, nerves, and lymphatic ganglions. The m. iliacus internus, and psoas magnus, are covered with a thin aponeu- rosis, (fascia iliaca,) which arises imperceptibly from the surface of the former, and lies immediately upon those muscles; the iliac vessels, and peritoneum, lie upon and are connected with it by loose cellular tissue. This aponeurosis is attached to the linea innominata, to the inner edge of the iliac pit, and to the hind edge of Poupart’s liga- ment. Opposite the latter insertion, it terminates running into a point near the passage for the femoral vein. Another portion of this aponeu- rosis passes over the share-bone, behind the femoral artery and vein, towards the thigh, where it forms the hind part of the sheath in which the femoral vessels are enclosed, and is fixed to the fascia lata. From this state of parts, the protrusion of the intestines is very difficult; however, the part between the inner concave edge of Poupart’s ligament, and the ’emoral vein, is not entirely closed, but only filled up by a lymphatic gan- lion, or by thick cellular tissue. This space is bounded above and before by Poupart’s ligament; below and behind by the share-bone ; inwardly by the concave edge of Poupart’s ligament; and outwardly by the femoral vein. The thigh sheath (fascia lata) has two distinct insertions at the front upper part of the thigh ; it is firmly attached to the upper part of :he share-bone, above the origin of the m. pectineus, which it overspreads, »nd further to the front part of the femoral ring. The former portion pro- seeds with the iliac fascia behind the femoral vessels ; the second attaches tself to Poupart’s ligament, though not throughout its whole length, for ts insertion terminates at the inside of the femoral vessels, which it covers xternally. In this region then the femoral vessels lie between the two ayers of the fascia lata; the upper layer is connected below with the inder, by which one opening is formed (the external opening for the -moral vessels of Hesselbach ; the oval cavity of Lawrence, which, at m outer edge, presents a semilunar edge ; the femoral ligament of Hey ; le falciform process of Burns.) In this outer hole the vena saphena •asses. This aperture is larger in women than in men where it is entirely losed by a tendinous bundle of net-like tissue. Besides this aperture, lere are still several little openings in the upper layer for the passage t vessels. A thick cellular tissue, or a thin aponeurosis, spreads over ie fascia, and covers the vena saphena. SI8 Ascription of the parts concerned in femoral rupture does not accord with that t, ? received in England, nor is it correct according to our dissection. a C"nous orcumstance that the tendinous and cellular parts connected with • .? ufe sf.era to be a general repetition of those of inguinal; in both an aperture ore no,.fp„ntendlll0us expansion over the parts, and in both a cellular funnel, less or Pour - r shut Up an< £uarded by peritoneum, exists. uscloAbl h m<i‘nt’ °ir the l0-VCr mar6in °f the tendon of the external oblique abdominal me to twkT fdy ™nt,.oned “ stretching from the upper front spine of the liip- ing separate,of the share-bone, its two latter attachments or pillars lauhe^ttachment ‘^^ernal abtlymmal ring. But on further examination, it is found ing continued n,,tWn 's tendon is still more extensive, its connexion with th a pelvis al concave edee fnei S ' °,m Pub‘c spine about half an inch, and finishing by a half fe nc outwards, thus forming a triangular tendinous space, known f 2ANATOMY OP 68 as Gimbernat’s ligament, which diminishes by its own breadth the opening from the belly to the thigh, between Poupart’s ligament in front and the pelvis from the pubic spine to the lower front iliac spine, which is also still further lessened upon the outer side by the conjoined mass of the m. iliacus interims and psoas magnus, as they pass from the pelvis into the thigh, to their insertion in the little trochanter. The space then actually left is scarcely more than an inch wide to the inner side of the junction of the hip and share bones, and consequently before and above the inner half of the acetabulum or hip- socket and a little to its inner side, and through it the femoral vessels pass. But this aperture, the crural ring, has further boundaries. As from Poupart’s ligament, or the crural arch, as it is often called, is expanded above, the tendinous covering of the belly, below the upper front iliac spines, and of the m. recti upwards to the pit of the stomach having in it the external abdominal ring, so from the lower edge of the ligament descends • an extensive tendinous expansion which encloses all the muscles of the thigh and is lost: about the knee-joint, and commonly called the fascia lata. This sheath seems to begin i by a sharp angle from the lower edge of Poupart’s ligament, where Gimbernat’s liga- - ment ends above ; as it continues outwards it deepens, assuming a crescent or sickle-like shape, forming the falciform process, till it stretches down the whole length of the thigh. But before doing this, and at the distance of about an inch and a half from Poupart’s - ligament, corresponding also to the same distance from the oblique crease in the skin, which separates the belly from the thigh, it curves suddenly inwards and upwards,, spreading as it rises in front of the m. pectineus, above the origin of which it is fixed into 3 the pelvis as far as the pubic spine. A large opening of an irregular oval form is thus i left in the otherwise complete tendinous sheath of the muscles of the thigh, and to it is - given by Lawrence the name of lower or anterior opening of the crural canal; over the-. inner lower edge of which the great saphenous vein is seen mounting to enter the inside of the femoral vein, which with the great artery it accompanies, are here uncovered by;, tendinous sheath, but still covered in a peculiar manner. _ . It will be recollected that when speaking of the transversal fascia in the description: of the parts of inguinal rupture, that its lower part at the bottom of the belly was men- tioned as consisting of two portions, the front and outer or iliac portion continued along, the margin of Poupart’s ligament to the upper iliac spine, forming the outer half of the-, internal abdominal ring, then bending round behind the peritoneum and spreading over: the front of the m. iliacus interims and psoas magnus, as they fill the ventral cavity of the. hip-bone, and there assuming specially the name fascia iliaca. The hinder inner, m pubic portion of the transversal fascia was also mentioned as forming the back of the in- guinal canal, and the inner half of the internal abdominal ring and then stretching away, outwards in a sharp edge up to the spine of the hip-bone, behind the front portion, there terminated, and might with equal propriety be called/ascta pudica, it being remembered^ however, that neither it nor the so-called fascia iliaca are other than continuations o processes of the transversal fascia. In the angular track between Poupart s ligamenaj in front, and the m. iliacus and psoas magnus behind and on the outer side, and the _gv of Gimbernat’s ligament and the angle of the share-bone, behind and on the inner side, these the iliac and pudic portions of the transversal fascia unite in a kind of seam on eacl side, but separated iu the middle at the gap formed by the crural arch for the passagg of the femoral vessels. Thus far completes the description of the transversal fascia >i> the belly • part of which only, namely, that immediately connected with inguinal rup, tures had been described. It remains now to speak of this fascia as connected wit: The aperture behind Poupart’s ligament, or the crural arch, and called by Hey th femoral ring, gives passage to the femoral vessels, which, whilst in the pelvis, lie upon th iliac portion of the transversal fascia, between it and the peritoneum, but reaching th crural ring, escape from behind the peritoneum, and then are placed between the jus mentioned iliac portion of the transversal fascia behind, and its pudic portion in fron Here the iliac and pudic fuse ice, having joined so as to form a corresponding opemn to the femoral ring, are continued down into the thigh, in the shape of a wide, but muc flattened funnel, behind the fascia lata, but uncovered by it, as die funnel descent behind its oval opening, and containing within it the femoral vessels, is called t femoral shcalli, the hinder or iliac portion of which descends only to the origin ot deco branch of the femoral artery; whilst its front, or pubic portion, extends along 0 trunks of the femoral vessels till they penetrate the tendon of the m. triceps ad,het femoris. A process passes from the front to the back of the sheath, along its who length dividing it into two distinct canals, in the outer of which is contained the femor artery and in the inner the femoral vein. Immediately above the lower edge °f oval opening of the fascia lata is an opening on the inside of the femoral sheath, throujFEMORAL RUPTURE. 69 „ which the great saphenous vein penetrates to empty itself into the femoral vein. Above the former, the absorbent vessels penetrate, as Astley Cooper (a) describes, “ through the inner side of the sheath, near the pubes. In the male subject 1 have seen them enter the sheath in a cluster, through a single hole in this fascia ; but in both sexes the fascia is generally rendered cribriform, by these vessels passing through a variety of small openings.” (p. 9.) He also further states, what I must confess I have never observed, that “if the sheath be opened, the contents will be found separated by two membranous jsepta, one passing between the artery and vein, and the second, equally distinct between the vein and the absorbents. * * * The contents of the sheath differ in their attach- ments to the bag; the artery and vein are seen completely filling up the space in the sheath which is allotted to them; while the absorbents are loosely connected by means if cellular membrane and fat, which, not affording sufficient resistance to the pressure jjf the abdominal viscera, occasionally allows the descent of a hernia.” (p. 10.) This {portion of the sheath is commonly, in health, called the cribriform fascia, and it is be- ween it and the femoral vein that femoral rupture first enters the sheath, and then, pro- ruding its inner side, has been called by Astley Cooper the fascia propria of the •upture, a most inappropriate name, as it might lead to the supposition of a new forma- 1 ion instead of the simple protrusion of an old structure in these cases. In regard to his covering of the femoral sac, Cooper says:—“ A thin fascia naturally covers the ipening through which the hernia passes and descends on the posterior part of the tubes. When the hernia, therefore, enters the sheath, it pushes this fascia before it, so hat the sac may be perfectly drawn from its inner side, and the fascia which covers it eft distinct. The fascia which forms the crural sheath, and in which are placed the ' ‘.ole or holes for the absorbent vessels, is also protruded forwards, and is united with ■' other, so that the two become thus consolidated into one.” (partii .p. 2.) Cloquet i .Iso describes the closure ofthe top crural sheath in a very similar manner. “ The upper ; i rifice of the crural canal (sheath) is closed,” says he, “ by a membranous parti- - iion, which opposes the formation of crural rupture, as well as the entrance of the finger hen pushed from above downwards, above the crural arch. This partition forms - jbove the arch a sort of diaphragm-cellulo-fibrous, whitish, thick, and very resistant in jsme subjects; simply cellular, weak, and readily yielding in others. I propose giving ’ • the name crural septum. It arises completely around the upper opening of the crural :aj auab is thickish, and its fibres are most commonly transverse in front, towards the •_ } rural arch. \\ ithin it proceeds from the cellular tissue behind Gisibernat’s liga- lent; or, rather, from the concave edge of that ligament itself, conjointly with the 'J >ner wall of the crural canal (sheath) itself. Externally it is blended with the femoral leath, and the ammar tissue encircling the epigastric artery, on the outside of which ‘ „u ar.tlssue fills the space between the crural arch and vessels. Its upper abdominal irface is concave; its lower, towards the crural canal concave; but sometimes both rfaces are flat. It always presents one or more apertures for the passage of 'the mphatic vesse s, and sometimes the upper part of the crural canal seems merely closed ,/ZSr netWmrk- ,0ne°f.these ovenmgs, larger than the others, is central, f / P'tattd by an oblong lymphatic gland, and will admit the finger.” (pp. 73, 4.) C^W^ that,he has not found, on dissection, either Cooper’s “thin^fascia,” i* LlLOQUET8 * nnembranous partition,” and is “disposed to refer the origin of this ^ he CDndrased fibrous substance, which completes the crural sheath on j p g j mesial Slde- (P- 4/8.) And with Ins views in this respect I fully concur. J i1n?il0:^]th0Ug1h.the femoral ring is a larger opening than the abdo- ' IPS fin n ®mora ls ™ore.rare than inguinal rupture, because the intes- t fes anv orlr6? S° d',re?t y T" tliis Part; h is not originally open, nor | .men than fn mS.^ °Ug Fem°ral rUpture is raore frecluent in euL6e£nnrprPtUre.Crmences Wfth a little roundish deep-seated breadUl’ and i^ greatest diameter corresponds to inguinal nmt e" h TjT ^ The S,Wellin& ^ attains1 the size rves and nJ-/ ’ 1 } ’ l0Wever’ sPread over the femoral vessels and of n“mb"ess’-mn, of men, the distinction between femoral and (o) Hernin, part i.COVERINGS OP FEMORAL RUPTURE. 70 inguinal rupture is easy, because the latter closely follows the direction of f the spermatic cord ; but in women it is more difficult, because the cord . does not exist, and the abdominal is nearer the femoral ring (2). Femoral rupture is easily distinguished from a bubo, and from a collection of pus; 3 the diagnosis is, however, more difficult when the rupture is accompanied i with a swelling of the glands (3). [(1) Femoral rupture commonly after descending a little down and protruding the •■ slieath inwards, turns upwards upon Pour art’s ligament, so that the bottom of the J sac is above the mouth. Astley Cooper, however, states that “it sometimes happens^ that instead of crossing the thigh in the direction of the crural arch, it extends down-aji wards along the edge of the crural vein and the vena saphana major, (p. 1.) Then] tumour does not quit the sheath for the crural vessels. The appearance of this diseasei**] that of a general swelling of the fascia on the inner side of the femoral vein, but without its producing any circumscribed tumour. The part swells whenever the patient coughri j or uses any considerable exertion, but the swelling diminishes though itdoes not entirely i subside, when he stands at rest. * * * I believe it to be not an unfrequent variertal as I have met with it three times in the dead body, and it existed on both sides in eacL-ll * * * It is continued downwards within the sheath, passing anteriorly to the femoral , vein, and descends as far below the crural arch as the sheath will allow, the distance I being in general from two to three inches.” (p. 25.) Callaway tells me one such case- > occurred under his care, and was at first supposed to be varix of the femoral vein, its true nature was, however, discovered, and a truss was applied with advantage. (2) In ordinary cases I have never seen any difficulty of distinguishing femoral fron '1 inguinal rupture in women ; and cannot conceive it possible, except whilst the latter b-J in the inguinal canal, or on the point of passing through the external abdominal ring- i but even then it is not difficult to determine, as the swelling of femoral rupture can be i pushed down into the thigh, and Poupart’s ligament either thereby exposed or the fingers l passed between the rupture and it, which cannot be done by pressing down inguinik i rupture, as thereby Poupart’s ligament is more hidden. (3) Besides those here mentioned, there are other swellings in the upper part of the < thigh or groin liable to be mistaken for femoral rupture. Astley Cooper mentions . an enlargement of the crural vein, which dilated when the patient coughed, (in const- t qucnce of the return of blood into the belly, made by the pressure of the bowels upon tin < iliac veins,) disappeared in the recumbent, and reappeared in the erect posture. * * f1 It was easy to detect the nature of the case, for although it disappeared in the recumtawl posture, it was immediately reproduced, although he continued in that posture, by pressin) » on the vein above the crural arch, and retarding the return of blood.” (p. 4.) Tumonmj also, either fatty or encysted, may occupy the seat of the rupture, and be mistaken forit ! Of the latter there is an example in St. Thomas’s Museum.—J. F. S.] 1217. The coverings of femoral rupture are, Jirst the external skin second, cellular tissue and glands; the layer of the former is often ver thick and loaded with fat; third, the superficial layer of the fascia lata (1) and fourth, the hernial sac, the protruded part of the peritoneum, "'hid , is covered on its surface with a layer of loose cellular tissue. These coverings are not the same in all cases; a rupture of increasiiif j size may protrude through the aperture by which the vena saphena >f»| entered, so that it is then for the most part covered only with skin ai*| subjacent cellular tissue. Most commonly a portion of the ileum*J included in femoral rupture, more rarely the omentum, and extremal seldom a portion of the bladder. [(1) This is erroneous ; the fascia lata never covers femoral rupture, which passed-1 already mentioned, through the oval opening, and the third covering is the protru . sheath of the femoral vessels, as I have already described. . JjXfl I recollect seeing Green operate on a case in which, when the so-called fascia ' was exposed, it had a nodulated form, and gave some idea of intestine covered 1 with its peritoneal sac; but on carefully cutting through, a mass of soft fat was I beneath it, under which was the sac. . 1 In another case under my own care, having cut through the/aseta propria, as ^ I thought I had reached the peritoneal sac, and dividing it, as mall quantity ot nuw reiMODE OF REDUCTION. 71 discharged, which led me to suppose I had opened the sac, but what I supposed to ba intestine remained very immovable, and led me to doubt. Upon examining what was thought to be mesentery I found the vessels running in all directions, and the part itself semitransparent; I therefore carefully cut through it, and immediately about a table- spoonful of fluid escaped, and a knuckle of intestine was exposed.—j. f. s. A very remarkable case of femoral rupture is mentioned by Berard (a), which contained the Fallopian tube, and a large quantity of fluid. It had commenced two years previously in a small tumour, which was reducible, but she neglected wearing any bandage. In December, 1837, the growth had become more rapid, and the swell- ing, which was in the right groin, larger than a hen’s egg, stretched somewhat towards the abdomen and right labium, with a broad base, and smooth surface, except on the upper inner side, where a nipple-like process, as big as the top of the finger protruded, and the skin covering it was thin and bluish. The tumour fluctuated, and was trans- parent, and she says returns into the belly when she lies down. It was presumed to be a serous cyst developed in the part, or an old hernial sac closed by adhesion at the neck, and become dropsical. She had also a hard round body, as big as a turkey’s egg, protruding above the pubes, which, on examination, by the vagina was found to originate froin the womb. The first-mentioned swelling was punctured with a trocar, and six or eight ounces of citron-coloured frothy serum discharged, which coagulated with heat. A round body, as large as a small nut, and irreducible, was felt in the femoral nng, and ceased to be felt behind the crural arch. On the fifth day after the operation the sac suppurated, and she died on the seventh. On examination the interior of this cavity was found lined with albuminous exudation, and it communicated by a free opening with the peritoneal cavity behind Poupart’s ligament. It contained nothing but the Fallopian tube in a state of considerable hypertrophy, without adhesion to the interior of the sac, but closely united to the anterior part of the circumference of the sac. The tissue of the womb was healthy, except being distended by an enormous 1218. The epigastric artery is on the outer side in internal femoral rupture and ascends on the outer side of the hernial sac, where it crosses the spermatic cord, which runs on the upper and inner side of the rupture. The varia- tions in the course of the epigastric and obturator arteries are here of the greatest importance.^ If the obturator artery arise from the external iliac or from the epigastric, or both from the crural artery, when it has passed below Poupart s ligament, the obturator artery runs along the inside of ehen^sac, d0W,n inA0 ?e Pelvis- In the same direction, frequently passes a not inconsiderable branch of communication from the epigastric o the obturator artery. The observations on the frequency of° these ifferent origins do not always precisely agree ; the origin of the obturator r^S;0(l)m0re COmm°" than c the hernS1“*?'“ibtagt 7emicMe itaftheneottf'f at from7othhe CPigaStri° "*“* ““ ““ I-™* depth20' rUIJt”' is y difficult of reduction owing to its frr i c tax.ls must> m a small femoral rupture, be applied directlv !»* large one, firs', from aboTe “nwardf nd then from before backwards, the thigh being also much bent at tlm Schlagadcr. Nachtrag zu seiner Sclirift: Ueber die Biclierste Art des liruchschnittes in der I.eiste Bamberg und Wflrzburg, 1819, 4to. ; with six Engravings.—Tiedemann, Erkliirung seiner Ab~ bildungen der Pulsadern, p. 288-298. wX^ri?n,?e’.APrn> 1839-- British and Medical Review, vol. x. p. 2f,7 ZdTn’ above cited.—II esszlbach, A. K„ Irud decken t'hr8 V?rl,St,f <lur "nt"en rucnutcken Schlagadcr und der Huftbeinlocli72 OPERATION FOR nearer the iliac spine, than to the front inguinal or external abdominal ring, liie direction of the neck of the bandage must correspond to that of Poupart’s ligament, to wit, from the side towards the share-bone. The edge of the pad must not descend over the bend of the groin. 1221. Femoral rupture may be strangulated in the external or in the internal aperture for the vessels ; the strangulation is generally very severe, and if reduction cannot be effected, the operation is soon indicated. The strangulation may also be situated in the neck of the sac, especially if a truss have been worn for a long time. Jaeger’s assertion (a) that no case of strangulation by the neck of the sac is known, I must deny. I would add, that in two cases the reduc- tion of the intestine was impossible, although the femoral ring was so considerably cut into that the finger could be readily passed into it, and turned about in every direc- tion. In both cases the strangulation was in the neck of the sac, after the division of which the bowel was easily reduced. [Key considers the usual seat of stricture in femoral rupture to be “ a tendinous band, which joins the fascia transversalis to the posterior margin of Pourp art's liga- ment, and which is quite distinct from Gimbernat’s ligament, upon which so much stress is laid by some as constituting the stricture.” (p. 14, note, part ii.)] 1222. The cut through the skin in the operation for femoral rupture should have an oblique direction, corresponding to Poupart’s ligament, and should extend half an inch over the swelling towards the iliac spine and the pubic symphysis. The cellular tissue is then to be divided as described (par. 1170) in the direction of the cut in the skin. The subja- cent fat, which in stout persons is often very considerable, lias a peculiar consistence, and often a resemblance to a piece of omentum, must be care- j fully separated from the bands, and the upper layer of the fascia lata cut through (1) ; the hernial sac is then to be exposed and opened. A case may occur in which the rupture protrudes through the opening of the upper layer of the fascia lata, in which instance, by cutting through the skin and cellular tissue, the operator comes at once upon the hernial sac. The opening of the hernial sac requires the greatest care, as there is always but little fluid, and frequently only a small loop of intestine uncovered by | omentum. The oblique cut, corresponding to the great diameter of the swelling, (Scarpa, Zang, and others,) is in general most suitable, because by dividing the upper layer of the fascia lata, Poupart’s ligament, is at the same time relaxed. In large swellings, or in stout persons, a T-shaped (Cooper, Lawrence, and others) or a transverse incision (Peleetan, Dupuytren) maybe made. The directly vertical incision is objectionable. [(1) It must not be forgotten that what Chelius here and elsewhere calls the upper j layer of the fascia lata is really the femoral sheath.—J. F. S.] 1223. If the strangulation be caused by the outer aperture of the femoral vessels, or by the opening of the external layer of tire fascia lata,, the tendinous edge of this aperture must be carefully cut into. If the strangulation be in the femoral ring, different modes of treatment are proposed. («.) In women the point of the forefinger or the director should be introduced between the neck of the hernial sac and the intestine, the 1 button-ended bistoury passed upon it, and the inguinal ligament cut into inwards and upwards. (b.) In men the button-ended bistoury should be introduced upon the director which has been passed on the inside, to protect the spermatic cord, and the inguinal ligament should be divided horizontally inwards, or rather a little obliquely upwards, two or three lines deep (Scarpa.) (a) Ilandworterbuch dor Chirurgie, vol. iii. p. 591.73 STRANGULATED FEMORAL RUPTURE. IK Lc Dctuttren cuts obliquely from below upwards along the edge of the outer inguinal ligament, in the direction by which the spermatic cord descends. (*•) For the purpose of more surely preventing the injury of the epi- gastric or obturator artery, Arnaud’s hook should be introduced under the inguinal ligament, so as to draw it obliquely up towards the navel, whilst the power of the pull should be kept up by the finger introduced beneath Poupart’s ligament, and the intestine pressed back. If the ino-uinal ligament be not thereby sufficiently stretched, some slight cuts, only°a line deep, must be made in its edge, and then it must be raised up with Arnaud s hook (Schreger.) In the same way Le Blanc’s dilator is to be used. _ Also by introducing the forefinger between the inner surface of the hernial sac and the edge of Gimbernat’s ligament, the latter may be stretched, or even torn (Rust and others) (a). J ruptureUseeC°UIlt °f ^ 111111161,0118 modes of proceeding in the operation for femoral Schreger, Grundriss der chirurgischen Operationen, vol. i. p. 254. Third Edit. 1224. The danger, which, in the above-described course of the obtu- rator and epigastric arteries, is run from the practice a and b, on account i i lTVl °f these vessels’ tIie favouring of the recurrence of a rupture by the bloodkss expansion, according to c, further, the circumstance that the parts suffer considerable bruising, and the mere extension in many Hesselb achf0r re 7T-V? 0f the Stran^uIation’ have decided l ® to thTe Practlc,e (vvhlch 111 a manner resembles the earlier p ctice of Bell, Else, and others) of seizing the exposed lower edo-e of the inguinal ligament with the forceps, and cutting into it layerwise, from below upwards two lines deep, and to introduce the forefinger between le intestine and the seat of strangulation. If the cut be insufficient it must be lengthened through the fibres of the aponeurosis of the external oblique abdominal muscle above the spermatic cord, which is raised by an assent, and the inner inguinal ligament should be cut into hi the same ti,T!lls.Practice; although safer, on account of the deep situation of difficulty™ Thnf’ especially ln stout persons, is accompanied with great ! proposed by Scarpa and Dupuytren seems preferable to all other if attention be paid to the following circumstances he noim S ftg «SE its** the Si„bUsf£eSed1^ WiU‘ ^ .»% vor° demT&leb-e- d;e .V°raii«c (ler Ausdeh. Ma8 <lie sicherste Art tier iii. p. 227. W U ESSE I. BACH, A Bruchschmttea in der Leiste. burg, 1819. .00 Scakpa, above died.- cited, "" ~~ Bamberg und Wiirz- cited r, mi ' ti.V v“—-Banoenbkck, above rcceua 5e la ChRurgi™ 62,^iSt°lre <les 1>ro=K's74 EXTERNAL FEMORAL RUPTURE. In operating on femoral rupture, without opening the sac, Key observes: — “It may he as well to disturb the subjacent cellular membrane as little as possible, as inflam- mation is less likely to follow, and to assume the form of erysipelas. For this reason the inverted X incision, usual in the operation for femoral hernia, may be in most case* reduced to a single incision, either at right angles to Poupabt’s ligament, or in a trans- verse direction across the tumour. In patients who are spare, and in whom the neck of the sac lies at no great depth from the surface, it is unnecessary to disturb the cellular membrane by turning aside the flaps of the integuments. This will diminish the sup- purative inflammation, and in such cases will afford ample room for the operation. I have not made trial of the perpendicular form of incision, but a single transverse one I have found sufficient when the integuments have been loose and the tumour not large. The superficial fascia adheres firmly to the common integuments, and is usually turned aside with them, especially when the latter are pinched up for the purpose of making the first incision. The fascia propria is therefore quickly exposed, and forms the first distinct covering of the tumour, being darker than the more superficial cellular invest- ment. It is'under the outer layer of this fascia that the adipose structure is formed, and which often assumes the appearance of omentum. The director easily makes its way under this fatty matter as far as the neck of the sac, -which lies deeper than the operator at first supposes. The point of the director should be applied rather to the inner than to the outer part of the neck of the sac, as it will be found more easily to pass under the stricture at this part. It should not at first be attempted to be thrust under the stricture, as the firmness of the parts forming the stricture would resist it. But the seat of the stricture • i being felt, the operator should depress the ends of the director upon the sac, which will yield before it, and then, by an onward movement, the director slides under the strio- ture.” (pp. 143, 44.)] 1226. The return of the intestine, the dressing and the treatment after operation are to be conducted in the same way as already described in inguinal rupture. 1227. The external femoral rupture, which consists in the protrusion of the peritoneum and of the fascia iliaca on the outside of the femoral vessels, between them and the front upper angle of the hip-bone, and is gradually developed, forms at the place mentioned a moderately raised swelling, which, becoming narrower below, ascends, however, obliquely inwards, and terminates with a blunt point in the region of the lesser trochanter. The finger cannot in the least be brought under either of its edges. If in its further growth the rupture overcome the anterior iliac fascia, the form and direction of the swelling is changed ; a new one is developed beneath the old swelling, which always extends further between the fascia lata and the muscles of the thigh. The mouth of the rupture is formed by the outer part of Pour art’s ligament and the iliac spine; on its inner side lies the femoral artery, and upon it the circumflex iliac artery. The neck of the sac is the widest part of it lying within the belly; its inner wall lies under the semi-lunar bridge of the posterior iliac fascia, its outer on the m. iliacus internus and psoas magnus. The body of the sac lies behind the anterior iliac fascia, near it outwardly lie the m. rechtik and vastus externus femoris, near it inwardly the femoral vessels and t nerves, partially covered by it, and upon or before it the m. sartorius and part of the fascia lata. The bottom of the sac, its narrowest part, lwj on the trochanter minor. The coverings of this rupture beneath the slan t are, first, the femoral ligament upon the inner greater half, and the sartorius upon the outer lesser half of the hernial sac; second, a layer®* i 1 1 » t I » sir I .* I tough cellular tissue, in which small blood-vessels and nerves run ; third. th* . • -t r . r ji. *i i : :i:_„ r io uorv dew* anterior iliac fascia; fourth, the posterior iliac fascia, which is very cate, and allows, fifth, the hernial sac,which it completelyenvelopes, to show through. Hesselbach considers a weak constitution, and the existence® the m.psoas minor, by which a cup-like hollow is formed, as disposing to tn *75 FEMORAL RUPTURE WITH TWO SACS. rupture. As long as this rupture is enclosed in the anterior iliac fascia, it cannot well be strangulated, because the neck is the widest part of the sac ; but if that fascia be torn by great violence, then, according to Hes- selbach, strangulation may follow. The taxis is to be applied from below upwards ; and if the operation be necessary, it is only possible, according to Hessejlbach, to avoid wounding the circumflex iliac artery, which always lies in front of the neck of the sac, by the division layer- wise of the strangulating parts (a). [Astley Cooper observes, that “ it is by no means common to meet with deviations from the usual structure of crural hernia,” and describes three varieties; first, that in which “ the fascia usually covering the hernial sac has given way so as to allow a por- tion of the tumour to pass before it; thus dividing the tumour into two parts, with a sort of hour-glass contraction between them,” (p. 25, part ii.) very similar to which appears Hesselbach’s case, quoted by Key, where “ the sheath had given way in dif- ferent parts so as to givethe sac an appearance of five small tumours, which was probably owing to the apertures through which the absorbents pass having yielded, while the general texture of the sheath had resisted pressure.” (p. 25, note, part ii.) Second, “ when the tumour does not quit the sheath for the crural vessels.” Third, “ that in which the hernia is formed in part within the sheath, and also in the common wav.” (p. 25, part ii.) 3' I have had three cases of femoral rupture which seem distinct froifi either of those mentioned, and were furnished with a second sac, produced, I presume, by rupture of the original one. v Case 1.— S. R., aged fifty-six years, a stout, healthy, but flabby woman, was admitted into St. Thomas’s Hospital on the afternoon of Sept. 23rd, 1837, having been subject of rupture on the right side for the last nine years, during the latter four of which she has worn, though irregularly, a cup-truss as the protrusion could not be entirely returned. Within the latter period the rupture has descended so largely five times as to cause severe vomiting, but has been relieved On the 20t/i ult. her bowels were moved, and not since. Next afternoon she was attacked with severe vomiting, and yesterday the taxis was employed severely, but without relief and the symptoms continued up to the period of her admission, when she was imme- diately put in the warm bath, which produced complete prostration, and attempts at reduction were made, but without success. F In the evening I saw her, and she had then recovered the effects of the bath but she 3"? T°mltog steriaCTS, mitter» had continual eructations, and hiccough, which had been through the whole day, otherwise she was tranquil, and her countenance cheerful. The belly was tender, but not much distended. frot/u’ge °b-0ng t“m°ur,extended from the pubic spine'to within an inch of the upper front iliac spine, about three fingers m breadth, covering Poupart’s ligament ^uid hiTafd tbeaPvaraUCe -°f “ enlarSed mass of inguinal glands, very firm and unyield! mg, and the skin covering it very livid, from the previous severe handling. A second seDaratpcl°5cupl^ l’le Place of femoral rupture, not exceeding the size of a walnut Sate™-°m the f<,)rme!' by the crease of the groin, and rather nearer the pubes than fl, *■ blS i Seem,ed Wltl!?ut doubt a femoral rupture, and gave a sense of indistinct tc ua ion 7 fhe swelllng on the groin was pressed. I was in much doubt of the character of the larger swelling, whether it were a mass of enlarged elands further rupture b{.the handling, or whether an encysted As the swe’llb'f1017 DOr Situfti0n led t0 the iatter supposition, violent or S° severely mauled, I thought it best not to make any heranoDeratLmwhiieh°rtS t0 ret,U1'n th® ruPture> and, not succeeding, proposed to throughout ftTiSZ’iSr♦’ "VT n0t C°nSent- The ^mptoius continuing to submit and after l l becoming anxious, she was at last persuaded Sent 24t consultation with my colleague Green, on the following day- femoral r„’nh,re 1 Pr°^eded to operate on the smaller tumour, in the same way8as for escaped • a portion1 of unusaa occurred except that, on opening the sac, no fluid could be found. I then passed algeas a 'v'alnat’ turned out, but no intestine J; •ttssstzsnsst Tga. 4" B^****w~. «*<• p- «-*.76 FEMORAL RUPTURE tumour on the grom, and the omentum, in the sac just opened, seeming scarcely sufficient to account for the severity of the symptoms of strangulation, we determined on narrowly examining the sac, to ascertain whether it communicated with the large swelling. In carrying my finger round the hernial cavity for this purpose, it suddenly passed into an aperture on the outer side, and, being pushed onwards, entered the large swelling, and passing along it nearly as far as the iliac spine, could be readily felt, and not deeply, beneath the skin, which was then slit up on my finger, and thereby a large mass of healthy omentum exposed, which, being raised, about four inches of small intestines, chocolate-coloured and bright, but with a few patches of adhesive matter beneath its peritoneal coat, which also adhered slightly to the omentum, came into view. The mouth of the sac was speedily found, and my finger with little difficulty passed into the belly; but the gut would not return till the aperture had been enlarged with the knife. About four ounces of omentum were cut off, and the wound dressed; she re- covered without an untoward symptom. I presume in this case that the hernial sac had burst, but how or when, the history of the case gave uo information, and that the pro- truded bowel and large portion of omentum had no proper sac, but had merely formed themselves a cavity in the cellular tissue. Case 2.—A. B., aged fifty-five years, a healthy, stoutish woman, of loose texture, was admitted Feb. ‘24th, 1842, having been the subject of femoral rupture on the right side for twenty years, the latter half only of which she has worn a truss. On the morning of the 21 st ult. her bowels were last moved, and, having exerted herself more than usual during the day, the rupture increased beyond its ordinary size, and could not be returned as previously. She was constantly vomiting during the night; and next day was bled, put in the warm bath, and had the taxis applied for two and a half hours with- out relief. The vomiting ceased in the course of the day, and nothing was done for her yesterday except giving some sulphate of magnesia in the evening, which, not operating, castor-oil was given this morning, but without relief. She has now (noon) a little hic- cough, and frequent fetid eructations, but has not vomited since the 22nd ult. The belly is generally tender, and the pulse small; but the countenance is little distressed. In front of Poupart’s ligament there was a large swelling, extending to within two inches of the iliac spine, but not much elevated, and from its inner extremity a second swelling descended in the usual situation of femoral rupture, but pyriform rather than globular, and passing down lower in the thigh than usual. A distinct indentation existed between the two swellings, as if they were separated beneath the skin ; and at this part was a scar, the result of an abscess five years ago. The fingers could be passed behind both swellings, especially the inner, which was tender; but neither were inflamed, nor appeared to have been much handled. The general resemblance to the former case was very strong. The taxis was employed both before and after the warm-bath, but with- out avail, and with her consent the operation was performed, at 2, p.m., upon the inner swelling. After cutting through, and turning oft' the skin and superficial fascia, an absorbent gland was found on Poupart’s ligament, sending inwards a neck to join another below it; and three absorbent vessels were seen entering the former gland, having risen up from the femoral sheath, and by their tightness produced the depression between the two swellings already mentioned. The neck of gland was divided, and the fascia propria, which was very tough and almost fibrous, slit up on a director, exposing the hernial sac, which was so much larger than seemed at first, that I was obliged to widen the opening in the skin by cutting it inwards. The sac was then opened, and a small quantity of fluid escaped, followed by protrusion of omentum; and the cut, having been completed with a bistoury upon the finger, a knuckle of intestine, about three inches long, was found on the inner side of the swelling. I then passed my finger down to the stricture, and could enter just the tip within it; but the size of the other swelling rendered it so deep that I found it necessary to enlarge the external cut upwards previous to division of the stricture, which was made sufficient to admit the finger readily into the belly. The gut being congested, but bright, and, having examined the strictured part, and emptied it, I returned the bowel without difficulty into the belly. On carefully examining the hernial sac, in reference to the remaining swelling, I found an aperture in its outer wall close to Poupart’s ligament, through which my finger readily passed into the tumour, the extent of which outwards was ascertained by the finger being burk'd up to the knuckle. The cavity contained nothing but soft omentum, which, having in vain attempted to withdraw, I thought best left alone. That omentum, however, in the opened sac, though healthy, being large in quantity, I cut off, having previously intro- duced a double ligature, and tied it on each side, which prevented any bleeding. She was then put to bed, and recovered without any hindrance.77 WITH TWO SACS. Case 3.—A. W., aged fifty-five years, a spare, healthy woman, was admitted in the afternoon of Nov. 4th, 1828, having ruptured herself on the right side ten years ago, since which time she has worn a truss constantly, which, however, has not fitted, and the rupture has been so much incarcerated five or six times as to need assistance for its reduction; but it does not appear certain, from her account, that its entire contents have been always returned Yesterday evening, (her bowels having been twice relieved during the day,) whilst engaged in her usual occupation, mangling, the rupture came down beneath the truss which she took off, and, having returned the protruded parts, felt no farther incon- vemence till 11 o clock this morning, when it again came down, and, having attained larger size than usual, became painful, and made her sick and faint. She could not return the rupture, nor could her medical attendant, who twice employed the taxis during the afternoon, and then sent heron that evening to the hospital, where the warm- bath and taxts were resorted to, but without avail. When I saw her, at 6 p.m she had been constantly retching for the last five hours, and so continued, raising, how- ever, nothing more than a little transparent, colourless fluid. She had frequent eructa rrTaS6d I7 T PreSSUl;e ?n the swelling; the belly is full, but not tender, and ^I,. ?™p!a,ns ?n|y ofPa'n at the lower part, near the rupture ; pulse small; countenance pallid and anxious ; the bowels have not been relieved since yesterday. ahnn?0tLoa fiPART ® ,liga™e,nt ''T a.larSe tumour of an oblong shape,’ extending from about three fingers breadth to the inner side of the upper iliac spine, into the right pudendi. It was more prominent, bulky, and rounded, at its outer end era fflrr4 ^ 1!Pr°Caeaed lnwa,'ds- and reaching the lower part of the mans Veneris bent down at an angle and descended for the distance of an inch into the labiZi The anH fl °f thC swellmS was firm and unyielding, but the labial portion soft ow», i, was determineTto JpC"’ S''1- ““S ",h neariy T ““If from t]?e middle of the firm swelling inwards ot^er^overin^were^then fein ^ ,aDgleS ™th and *S little dark-coloured serum escaned and' Jw*™7, Tn °r °Peniug the hernial sac, a of omentum burst through the’ aperture and “ ^ divided, forthwith a quantity sided. This nortinnnfJ,/P’ and th® s'velhng m the labium at once sub- was firm and matted together ™/h remainder, forming the bulk of the swelling dark-coloured but bright°and ffidematousD u1S1“g d a k,unckIe of iutestine was seen’ could not at first pa£ h “y ^ger int° 1116 sac I supposed to be an old adhesion w t • I as * TaS lutercepted by a band, which side, I was enabled to reach and foundthe ome1ntum and gut to the outer tip of the finger, but sufficient to allm d ricture very tight, and admitting only the -Wch I divided, >°Vhe bluat-“ded bistoury,JwUh then readily emptied the rmt nn,i ♦, P‘ S? jDto tbe belly, up to the second joint I was thought that the diffi^n’, n attempted to return it, but could not succeed ' It freed, anf ! therefore not having been suSntly tum and intestine to the otoer side Thshn the b^toury, by drawing the omen- was seen descending from the upper part of' f°T- a broad membrane he passed. It was this drmhfie(,cPP n*Pi n the sac, behind which the finger could into the stricture, and’subsennenV]'Vhlw first Prevented the introduction of my finger by dropping against the moSof Ve s^c^W d ftrance°f the S* into the be!ly done without further dilatation nfthe t • . We determined on its division ; and this omentum was partially adherent to t^e lntestlne easily returned. The mantny, and its matted part r^hS bn,S ?> the SaC’ and being 111 rather large and three little vessels in it disposed to £ d’& greater portion of it was removed emptied was found to be "n«ltied- Tbe «> having been thus »r peritoneal lining, , did „ot obj J.^SVetvSS'Sot, “78 WOUND OF EPIGASTRIC OR OBTURATOR ARTERIES. In January, 1842, she again came under my care with symptoms of strangulation. She had constantly worn the truss, but not to much purpose, as the rupture has come down four or five times a week. The original femoral swelling had now increased to the size of a large fist, and filled up a considerable part of the inguinal region both below and above Poupart’s ligament. On its inner side, the part which had descended into the labium was also enlarged, and its fore and upper part had assumed a remarkable form, exhibiting the appearance of the appendix auricula: of the heart, with its loose extremity projecting upwards and forwards. This labial part of the swelling was very hard and firm, and its contents seemed solid, whilst the outer and larger portion was evidently filled with intestine, which could be readily felt, as the skin alone appeared to cover it, and pressure caused much gurgling. The rupture was returned, after the warm bath, by emptying the smaller into the larger swelling, which having been done with some difficulty, the aperture between the two was grasped tightly, so as to prevent any escape, the larger swelling being thrust into the thigh by an assistant. I again employed the taxis upon it, and the rupture was slowly but completely returned into the belly. The mouth of the sac was large enough to admit the entrance of two or three fingers, and through the inside, the fingers could be readily passed into the appendicular swelling, and to the bottom of the labium.— J. F. S.] 1228. Wounding the epigastric or obturator artery, or one of their branches, in the operation for inguinal or femoral rupture, may cause a fatal or alarming bleeding, the more, as the blood is commonly poured into the cavity of the belly. By proper consideration of the points mentioned in the several kinds of these ruptures, this injury may indeed always be prevented. For stanching the bleeding, compression with oak agaric, plugs of lint moistened with styptics, with peculiar instruments, (Desault, by means of broad compressing forceps, Schindler, with forceps having a hinge, Hesselbach, with a peculiar compressor, Hager, with the compressor for the middle meningeal artery,) the passing a needle around the bleeding vessel, the enlargement of the incision, and special tying the vessel, have been proposed. Hesselbach’s instrument (a) seems to have the preference ; with its spoon-shaped part we must endea- vour to find the seat of the bleeding, as when it is passed into the belly, the blood in that cavity escapes externally, which, however, is better done by introducing the forefinger. The spoon-like part is then to be placed on the wound of the vessel, the other broad part, on the front wall of the belly, and by means of a screw, the two parts are to be pressed together. A cold application assists the operation of this remedy. [Although it cannot be doubted that wounds of either the epigastric or obturator arteries are very dangerous accidents, yet it is very remarkable that with the frequent variety of their origin and in the great number of operations for strangulated rupture, such cases are exceedingly rare, the number collected by Lawrence being not more than twelve or fourteen. In one of these, “ the epigastric artery had been completely divided at three quarters of an inch from its origin, and it did not appear that the smallest quantity of blood had escaped from the divided vesselin another, in enlarg- ing the stricture, “ the wound immediately filled with arterial blood, which rose again almost directly to the edges of the incision when removed with the sponge. * * * The patient lost about a pint of blood, fainted, and the bleeding ceased, nor did it come on again.” (p. 271.) In other cases, however, the patient died of the bleeding, either with or without the mischief having been discovered. If there be reasonable ground to suppose that either artery is wounded, the proper proceeding is to seek for and tie it, which was done by Mackay with success (b). It is also remarkable that the bleeding does not always come on immediately at the operation; but from the two following cases it appears that this may arise from other (a) IIessei.bach, F. K., Besehreibung und Anliang und Beitrag zu den neuesten anatomisdl Abbildung eines neuen lnstrumentcs zur sichern pathologischen Untersuchungen iiber die Leisten Entdeckung und Stillung einer bei dom Bruck- und Sclionkelbriiche. Wurzburg, 1816; «ith sclmitte entstandenen geffilirlichen Blutung. Ein two copper-plates. (oj A. Cooper, p. 41.UMBILICAL RUPTURE. 79 arteries than either obturator or epigastric. Lawrence mentions a case of stran- gulated bubonocele in which “no blood was shed during the operation haimonhage, however, took place on the same evening, but yielded to the application of cold cloths. There was no further bleeding till “ the morning of the eighth day, when a profuse hemorrhage took place from the wound ; it consisted of arterial blood, and did not cease till two pints at least had been lost. He survived this occurrence about a week. The vessel which had been divided was “the arterial branch, which the epigastnc sends to the spermatic cord; but its size did not seem adequate to the supply of so profuse a bleeding.” (pp. 273, 74.) Everard Home (a) also relates a case of stran- gulated scrotal rupture, in which suppuration of the testicle having followed the opera- tion “a haemorrhage took place in the evening (of the tenth day), which made the removal of the testicle necessary in order to secure the vessel. He lost a pound of bloodbut ultimately recovered, (p. 109.)] HI.—OF UMBILICAL RUPTURE. (Hernia umbilicalis, Exomphalas, Lat.; Nabelbruch, Germ.; Hemie ombilicale, Omphalocele, Fr.) Desault, GSuvres Chirurgieales, vol. ii. p. 315. Cooper Astlet, Anatomy and Surgical Treatment of Abdominal Hernia, part ii. .29. Oren’s Preisschrift liber die Entstehung und Heilung der Nabelbriiche. Lanshut, 1810. Soemmering, S. T., Ueber die Ursache, Erkenntniss und Behandlung der Nabel- briiche. Frankfurt, 1811. Thurn, Ueber die Ursachen der Nabelbriiche, bei Kindern und deren Heilung besonders durch Abbinden; in Yon Siebold’s Chiron., vol. ii. part ii. p. 3. Muller, H., Inaug. Abhandl. iiber den Nabelbriieh, mit einem neuen Vorschlage zu seiner Behandlung. Enlangen, 1841. 1229. The True Umbilical Rupture passes through the opening of the navel, and is thereby distinguished from the so-called false umbilical rup- ture, which is formed in the neighbourhood of the navel. Umbilical rupture, is either congenital, or arises accidentally after birth. 1230. Congenital Umbilical Rupture is the consequence of an arrested development of the foetus, of a backward formation of the abdominal muscles, the foetus remaining in that earlier stage of development, in which the intestines have not yet entered into the cavity of the belly. This rupture is situated in the spongy cellular tissue which connects the vessels of the navel-string together. It is therefore on this account opaque, where covered by the integuments of the belly, but transparent over the rest of its extent where surrounded by the cellular tissue of the navel-string. Besides this cellular tissue, this rupture is also enveloped in a hernial sac, and lies in a triangular space, which is produced by the separation of the vessels of the navel-string from each other. The veins are always above, the two arteries below and on the sides. The size of this rupture varies accord- ing as it contains a larger or smaller quantity of intestines. Several portions of the small intestines are usually contained in the swelling ; fre- quently, also, the colon, omentum, stomach, liver, and spleen. [In tying the umbilical cord after birth, care should be taken to ascertain previously whether there be any protrusion of viscera into it, which sometimes having, from the small size of the rupture been overlooked, intestine has been included in the ligature, and wounded; instances of which are mentioned by Mauriceau (6), Sabatier (c), and others. (a) Cases and Observations on Strangulated (b) Traitc des Accouchemens, vol. i. p. 497. Herma, in Trans, of a Society for the improve- (e) De la Mcdecine Operatoire. vol. i. p. 152. ment of Med. and Surg. Knowledge, vol. ii.UMBILICAL RUPTURE. 80 1231. Umbilical rupture after birth occurs, from the time of the sepa- ration of the navel-string to the third or fourth month. If circumstances, as violent screaming, restlessness of the child, and the like, then operate, which force the intestines violently against the walls of the belly, a portion of peritoneum, and of intestine, is easily thrust through the still open navel-ring, or the scar, not yet firm, gives way. As the navel, after the proper obliteration of the annulus umbilicalis, must be considered as the firmest part of the abdominal wall, it is probable that in the cases where true umbilical rupture has been observed in adults, it had already formed in childhood, but, on account of its small size, had been overlooked ; or that the navel-ring is enlarged, as a consequence of great extension of the abdominal wall, in fat persons, or after frequent pregnancies. Umbilical rupture, in adults, is, therefore, more frequent in women, who have been often pregnant, after great extension of the belly from dropsy, and in very fat persons. Umbilical rupture occurring after pregnancy, has a round, sometimes cylindrical, sometimes conical form, and a circular base ; in large swellling, the scar of the navel is more or less smoothed. The coverings of this rupture are:—1, the external skin ; 2, the delicate aponeurosis, which spreads over the external surface of the abdominal muscles; 3, the peritoneum lengthened into the hernial sac. The latter is often very thin, and more often, adherent to the coverings and to the intestines, especially at the point of the swelling; it seems also deficient, and is sometimes torn. The neck of the sac is always very short, and connected internally with the aponeurotic navel-ring ; in old and large umbilical ruptures it is tough, and often cartilaginous. In such ruptures, very considerable adhesions exist between the protruded intestines, them- selves, and the hernial sac, so that they form an inseparable mass, and the contained intestines can only be returned with difficulty. Collections of stool may therefore occur in that part of the intestine between the rupture and the navel, vomiting, and the like. Actual strangulation is rare in umbilical ruptures; if, however, it occur, the symptoms are more severe than in other ruptures, and more rapid mortification is to be dreaded. [Astley Cooper mentions “ an example of the sac having been either absorbed or burst, by which openings have been formed, and portions of omentum protruded through the sac of the larger one.” Sometimes an umbilical rupture forms two tumours, of which Astley Cooper men- tions an instance operated on by the elder Cline, who, “ after returning the intestine from the hernial sac, on putting the finger into the abdomen, an opening could be felt ; I about half an inch from that by which the finger passed, which led into another tumour by the side of the former.” (p. 31.) On dissection, in the tumour that was most inferior “ I found,” says Cooper, “ a small portion of the ileum, and part of the caecum. In the other tumour there was a portion of colon, and which adhered to the sac.” (p. 47.) I have had a case (No. XI. in the Table) somewhat similar, in which the rupture, about the size of a half-quartern loaf, had somewhat the shape of the figure 8, the head of which was rather smaller, and bent over to the left side. In the course of the operation a deep tough band of cellular tissue was found thrusting down the middle of the hernial sac, which retained the indentation after the cellular band had been cut through. The sac contained a large quantity of hard impacted omentum, and some inches of intestine. —j. f. s Umbilical Ruptures sometimes acquire “ enormous size in women, whose bellies are pendulous, from bearing a great number of children. In three such instances,” says Cooper, “ I have seen the hernia extending so low from the navel as entirely to cover the pudendumthe largest he ever saw “ measured across twenty inches by seventeen.” (p. 34.)] 1232. In congenital umbilical rupture, it depends on its size and on the condition of the walls of the belly, whether anything can be under-81 TREATMENT. taken for its cure. If that part of the intestine, external to the belly, be not large, and be reducible, its return must be carefully effected and re- protrusion prevented, by graduated compresses, which should be fastened with strips of sticking plaster and a body-belt. This practice is prefer- able to that followed by Hamilton, who after returning the intestine, applied a stout bandage around the base of the swelling, and brought the edges of the abdominal coverings together, with two silver needles and stick- ing plaster, and the cure was effected in a few days (a). If the congenital rupture be considerable, and its return in a gentle manner not possible, the child usually dies soon after birth, in which case, the external covering of the swelling is thrown off and the intestines are laid bare. Experience, however, proves, that if the swelling be properly protected from all external pressure, granulations may be produced after separation of the external covering, and thus the whole part be gradually covered with firm skin and a tendinous expansion (b). 1233. The treatment of umbilical rupture occurring after birth, is easy. The parts are returned without difficulty, and are kept up with a convex pad of wood, wax, or the like, applied close to the navel-ring, and properly fastened with sticking plaster, and a broad bandage. In changing the dressings, especial care must be taken that the protrusion of the intestine be prevented, by pressure of the finger on the navel-ring, till the pad be again properly applied. Usually, in children, a radical cure very soon takes place, on account of the natural tendency of the navel-ring to obliteration. In adults, elastic trusses, which yield to the motions of the abdominal muscles, are employed. Of the many, and some very complicated umbilical trusses, an elastic truss of a similar kind to that for inguinal rupture is preferable, of which the spring should be well fitted to the fulness of the belly, and its pad project directly from the spring ; or a somewhat concave metallic plate, to which is attached a spring, with a pad, and kept in its proper place by an elastic bandage attached to both sides of the plate; or a plate of horn is applied, in the middle of which is screwed a pad, and fixed with a large, tight, sticking plaster, and a belly-band, by which the rupture can be most certainly kept up. If the rupture cannot be returned, a large hollow pad must be used, by which the increase of the rupture is prevented. Rothmund (c) after completely replacing the contents of the hernial sac, presses the external coverings and the hernial sac through the mouth of the sac into the belly, and thrusts a round plate, corresponding in size to the extent of the aperture, into the pouch lere >} formed. On this plate, which can be kept steady by a stem projecting in its i e, a contrivance is to be attached, which can increase it from two to four ines at the greatest part of its periphery. By drawing the stem, the enlarged plate, nc i no longer can escape out of the mouth of the hernial sac, is firmly applied against mi<1 JJlner "n^er the latter. A somewhat larger plate, with an opening in its “responding to the inner plate, is applied on the coverings of the belly, and nml'f .-f Pr8)ectlnS stein of the first is to be passed through the opening of the second, m-Tv h! «e i by a COntnriue attached to it. In this way the ensheathed hernial sac extent' r mi y compressed, at pleasure, at the whole hinder extent of the mouth, to the infi.mm, f-°me. Imes; and by this gradually increased pressure, after some days, adhesive comnre«Ji°n ^ L‘Xpltcd, by means of which the mouth of the hernial sac is closed, the adherent n Ulrts enslteathed sac at the hind surface of the navel-ring becoming more tlnn throi1 t°it *e mnbiliciil canal. This compressor cannot generally be borne e’ and at most) five days. If the ensheathed hernial sac look livid, the ersten BUdun- ! 1W8 V°L ^ VOL "if der a'‘S5eren I,antd<;cken tie ({rung (c) MUllf.r, above cited, p. 53. a82 OPERATION FOR STRANGULATED UMBILICAL RUPTURE.' the compressor must at once be removed. The compressors are made of wood and metal (a). [“ The presence of the intestine and omentum in the tumour keeping the navel open, oppose,” says Desault, “ its continual tendency to close; a tendency, however, which sometimes Incoming greater than the resistance of the escaped parts, compels their return into the belly, obliterates the aperture which has given them passage, closes, consoli- dates it, and hence spontaneous cures of infantile umbilical ruptures occur.” (p. 317.) He gives two instances of this fact. The one, a female child of two years of age, with a rupture the size of a large nut, which had occurred soon after birth, and for which nothing had been done. He proposed applying a ligature, but the parents would not permit it. In the following year he saw the child again, and the rupture had disappeared. Nothing had been done, but the tumour had gradually subsided. In the other case the rupture had existed from birth, and at five years of age it was determined on applying the ligature. It was however deferred, in consequence of an attack of small-pox. After the child’s recovery the swelling was found much diminished, and Desault, presuming it might be cured by nature, left it alone. He was right; at the end of eight months it had entirely disappeared. Soemmering (b) and Brunninghausen (c) have mentioned several similar instances.] 1234. If the operation be necessary in strangulated umbilical rupture, the opening must be carefully made into the swelling, because the covering, are often very thin, and the hernial sac adherent to the skin, or intestines, or torn. The cut through the coverings should be made perpendicu- larly. If after opening the sac, and the proper disentanglement of the intestines, and so on, reduction cannot be effected, a director must be introduced between the neck of the sac, and the navel-ring cut into downwards with the button-ended bistoury. If previous to the operation, the impossibility of returning the rupture, on account of the existing adhesions, should be perceived, if the parts of the rupture be not gan- grenous, a semilunar incision is to be made at the bottom of the swelling, on the right or left side, through the skin, the thin aponeurosis carefully divided, and a director attempted to be introduced at the upper or under part of the navel-ring, between it and the neck of the sac, and upon it the button-ended bistoury for cutting into the navel-ring; or if this be not possible, the point of the left forefinger, with the nail turned down, is to be placed between the neck of the hernial sac and the under edge of the navel-ring, and upon it a cut with a straight bistoury is to be carefully made from without inwards with a gentle motion of the hand. But if the parts in the rupture be gangrenous oi self-strangulated, the sac may be carefully opened at any convenient place. The further treatment is to be guided according to the ordinary rules. [Astley Cooper mentions “one circumstance of danger which is peculiar to the umbilical hernia, which is, that when the skin has become very thin over the tumour, the pressure simply of the protruded parts, under strangulation, will sometimes very early destroy the life of that portion of the integument by stopping the circulation through it. It first turns green, the cuticle then separates from it, and that portion of the skin becomes ■ dry and of a brown colour ; and in the instances in which this circumstance came under my observation the patients have died.” * * * “ Suppuration,” ‘lie also observes, “now and then takes place in the omentum oi an irreducible umbilical hernia.” (p. 35.) ' As pregnancy is not an unfrequent cause of umbilical rupture, it is rather curious that t strangulation at this period so rarely occurs. If it cannot be overcome by. the usual * remedies, the operation may be resorted to without the patient’s condition rendering it less hopeful. Astley Cooper mentions oue case operated on successfully in the eighth i month of pregnancy (d); Lawrence one in the seventh or eighth month (e): and Clement another in the fourth month (/).] (a) Muller, pi. v. ft) Above cited: .. ’c) Loder’s Journal fur Chirurgie, vol. li. p. 1. 'll) Above quoted, part ii. 347.RADICAL CURE OP UMBILICAL RUPTURE. 83 1235. The radical cure of reducible umbilical rupture, in young persons, by the application of a ligature, after the reduction of the intestines, around the integument covering the rupture, by tying which tightly the parts taken hold of are destroyed, and a tough scar formed (1) is generally exceptionable ; because, firstly, umbilical rupture is very commonly cured in children by the mere powers of nature; secondly because the cure can certainly be effected by continued moderate com- pression ; thirdly, because the operation is very painful, even dangerous (as a small part of an intestine may be included in the ligature ) and after the scarring of the suppurating parts, compression is necessary for a much longer time; fourthly, because no decided radical cure can be effected, as a part of the neck of the hernial sac always still remains, and the scar produced is not sufficiently firm to prevent the dragging of the intestine. In female children, it must also be remembered that in pregnancy the scar may be torn (a). But in all the umbilical ruptures, which are several inches long, and purse-shaped, if the firm application of a truss be prevented by the great lengthening of the skin the ligature may be proper; and if it do not effect the closing of the navel-ring the close application of a truss may be rendered possible (b). (1) In former time this was recommended and practised hv Putt™ Albucasis, Pare, and others; objected to by Guv nr'Chauuac, a T^rAmendedbeSpeCialIyJby DeSAULT Graefe, and others ’ resulting from its use He savs fr/V “ Tn ,n tv, ’ !f ,not dangerous, symptoms my opinion he would not be iustified even the,, . measu^e® bad laded. And its many of Desault’s cases, supposed to be cured ’ ret ' IS ,assarted by Richehand (e) than in which a child of seven anda half™ ° ’ [?tar.ned- A case is also mentioned (/) the operation being thus performed • ‘^the mtfent ^ “ ?°11S?que“ce of such treatment, of the hernia were returned, S the sa™SdT f T h?r back> *e contents A flat buckskin ligature, three-fourths of on ineh • twisted. to insure the reduction, not so firmly as to strangulate the parts but WfS aPP .led close to the abdomen, adhesive inflammation in the sac ffine silk W 7 ^ the and excit« firmness to interrupt all circulation Whel the^Sfied apphed whh sufficient that a portion of omentum had adhered to the sac and of P31 * " vf a1*! away’ n was Pound ligature. The patient died on the tenth dav f coursebad been included in the and granulation, which sprung from its tendinous .wasPerPcctly closed by adhesion surface of the granulations • no TnTm w ; tlle colon adhered to the inner It must be admitted tint fn ltd, , 0" Could be detocted in any part,” (p. 368 1 success of the operation. “ The mouth ofTefacT ^ 50t Tery f'avourable as to the and the enormous tumour extended to thef knees Tdmdlameter of three inches, twelve inches in circumference - six inches lower ™elIln£ measured at the neck inches in length ; and two extensive ulcers existed on it postSor ^ZrSe’’ “5 J'iraliSHernje ombfliMle^iTez'des11^fM6“oi.re (c) Above cited, p. m. 181™ Gcn,'ral de Medecine, I vol. Jn\y, dieGes«nnite Heilkunde Cwn™CTT; !n J?ur,nal (le Medecine p(lr f]Ch.rurgicale, vol. ii. p. 453. We the ’ 6 Medical Sciences Lawrence’^work'on^Ierni'in—f!™ indebt<>d[ 84 ] IV.—OF VENTRAL RUPTURE. . (Hernia ventralis, Lat.; Bauchbruch, Germ.; Hernie ventrale, Fr.) Garengeot, Sur plusieurs Hernies singulieres; in Memoires de l’Aeademie de Chirurgie, vol. i. p. 699. Pipelet, Nouvelles Observations sur les Hernies de la Vessie et de l’Estomac; in the same, vol. iv. p. 188. La Chausse, B. J., Dissert, de hernia ventrali. Argent., 1746. Klinkosch, Progr. quo divisionem herniarum novamque hernia ventralis speciem proponit. Prag., 1764. Soemmering, S. T., Ueber die Briiche am Bauche und Becken, ausser der Nabel-und Leistengegend. Frankfort, 1811. Cooper Astley, above cited, part ii. p. 49. 1236. A Ventral Rupture is that which protrudes through an unnatural opening on the front or side of the belly. This rupture is much more rare than either of those already mentioned. It takes place through openings in the abdominal muscles, and their aponeuroses; most commonly in the space between the two m. recti, more rarely on the sides of the belly, from the hip-bone to the last rib, and in the lumbar region (.Lumbar Rupture) (1). The causes of this rupture are the ordinary occasional causes of rupture, with existing relaxation of the abdominal walls, especially of the white line, after many pregnancies, in quick emaciation after previous stoutness ; or it is caused by tearing of the muscles and aponeuroses, at the parts where scars have formed (2). Or the entire walls of the belly often spread into a sac which contains intestines (3). These ruptures are generally provided with a hernial sac, except when they are consequent on pre- vious wounding of the peritoneum. [(1) Of this very rare form of Ventral Rupture Cloquet gives an instance in a man of seventy-five years, who, whilst lifting a heavy mattress, felt a violent pain, with a sense of tearing in his loins, which gradually subsided in course of six weeks. But about a fortnight after, whilst getting up in his bed, he had a fresh attack of pain at the same spot. When seen next day he was much agitated, had violent colic, some nausea and vomiting, and his bowels were costive. The skin in the right lumbar region, without being discoloured, was raised slightly by a rounded swelling about five inches from the spines of the vertebra. It was little tender, and when grasped, was found to be somewhat elastic, crackling, deeply situated, or at least separated from the skin by a layer of fat. It had a broad pedicle, increased in bulk, and dilated on coughing, sneezing, and making water. He had severe and constant pain deep in the right lumbar and iliac regions in the course of the ccccum and ascending colon. The swelling was much larger when he stood up than when lying down, and when he turned on his face it disappeared, and left a hollow readily distinguishable by the touch. He was treated by putting a pad upon the seat of swelling, after its contents had been returned, and confining it with a circular bandage, (pp. 5,6, note) (2) I have seen two or three cases in which, after pregnancy, the tinea alba has been torn to the extent of several inches; and in one of them below the navel I well recollect I could, without difficulty, bury my whole hand in the cavity of the belly, thrusting in the skin as a large pouch before it. In neither of these cases, however, was the pro- trusion of the bowels very considerable. There did not seem to be anything remain- ing but the skin alone.—J. F. s. Lawrence mentions a very interesting case of a woman who strained herself by lifting a heavy table, and died from inflammation of the chest. She had complained qnly of pain in the loins. But on examination both m. recti abdominis were torn through about one third of their thickness, and there was a small quantity of coagulated blood about the torn fibres; but the sheath was not ruptured, (p. 583.) Probably, had she lived, this would have become a ventral rupture. In reference to wounds of the belly, which are sometimes followed by ruptures, he mentions, as an example, that this does not always occur. The case of a boy who had been largely gored by the tusk of a boar, and had the greater part of the stomach distended by a hearty dinner recently85 STOMACH RUPTURE, so called. taken, the omentum, the transverse arch of the colon, and some small intestines pro- truded through the wound ; they were returned with difficulty, and having been retained by the uninterrupted suture the case did well, and no rupture followed, (p. 584.) (3) Of the latter kind, in which a portion of the entire abdominal wall seems to yield, various instances are mentioned. Richter describes a broad swelling, as large as a woman’s breast, iu each groin of the same person (a). And Siebold describes one equal to a loaf of bread in size, between the cartilages of the ribs and navel (b).] 1237. These ruptures may happen through the whole length of the white line (Hernice linece albce); but they are more commonly observed in that part above the navel, than in that below it. They for the most part contain a portion of omentum; if they be below the navel there usually lies in them a small piece of intestine, frequently the bladder or the womb. They often protrude so near the navel as to be easily mistaken for umbilical rupture. They have always an oval form, and have little prominence in comparison with their size; their neck is always oval, like the cleft through which they have passed; the neck of the sac is always very narrow in comparison to its size. If quite close to the navel-rint, they are distinguishable from true umbilical rupture by the oval shape of the neck of the sac, and by the navel being seen on one or other side of the swelling. Ruptures in the white line happen most frequently in women; their coverings are the same as those of umbilical rupture, ihey are kept up by the same trusses as the latter; but their radical cure is by far more rare than that of umbilical rupture. If there be stran- gulation, and the operation be necessary, it is the same as that for umbilical rupture; only the opening into the belly is best enlarged on one side or other. ° flJ"38' m°m ?6Se ™Ptures of the white line must be distinguished, those swellings formed by a portion of fat which has penetrated through a cleft in the white line, and have great resemblance to the omental SSle and ^ ^ SWellinSS feel ^d, are insenS rlpnl f ’ d pi^uce no inconvenience. If such swelling be acci- pZ 1203a)COmPanie Wlth COliC’ a miStake iS very eas^- "compare nf\f9' Ac thC Upper part of the vvhite line, and on the left side on account o7 ^ bhrthe^suaeirlledt St°maCh RfUptUreS> n uaHy contain a part °f the transverse colon (c) They are often l7‘' “rivtrce,ili,erce|jt!bie’ -—it a* -»Titt dragging at L ftomaoh,'££?^Sernei°of ‘"‘t’ stands up, or when the bodv 1 t r"6 ’"F 1S®n ^ w]ien the patient ** rupture p™t“dt “y TuV^, Hit k:SS al Ike Zi il ’iS tSt t0 -eth„ef to the rupture’are zr i? (c) In Lodeu's Journal, 171)7, voi. i. p. 215.36 1SCHIATIC RUPTURE. strangulation render the operation necessary, the dilatation of. the stricturing part must be made in such direction that no important vessel shall be injured, and as much as possible directly upwards. V.—OF ISCHIATIC RUPTURE. (.Hernia ischiatica, dorsalis, iliaca posterior, Lat.; Hiiftbeinbruch, Germ.; Hemie ischiatique, Ischiocele, Fr.) 1241. Ischiatic, Dorsal Rupture, passes through the notch of the haunch-bone, above the sacro-ischiatic ligaments and pyriform muscle, below the gluteal muscle, and appears externally near the lower part of one of the lateral edges of the rump-bone, or coccyx; it attains often a con- siderable size, extending more either upwards and backwards, or outwards, towards the perinceum. It contains, either merely intestines, urinary bladder, or both small and large intestines, the womb, and the like, together. It is undecided whether the male or female sex be more sub- ject to this rupture. It is more frequently noticed on the right than on the left side. It may be congenital, or may occur subsequently. The various cases of this rupture described are those of— Papen, C. H., Epistola ad illustr. virum Alb. de Hauler de stupenda hernia dorsali. Gotting., 1750 ; in Haller’s Disput. Chirurg., vol. iii. p. 314. Verdier ; in Memoires de l’Academ. de Chirurgie, vol. ii. p. 2, note a. Camper, Demonstrationes anatomico-pathologicce, lib. ii. p. 17. Rose, Progr. de Enterocele ischiatica. Lips., 1792. Lassus, Pathologie Chirurgicale, vol. ii. p. 103. Cooper, Astley, above cited, p. 66. Schreger, Chirurgische Versuche, vol. ii. p. 156. Berzold ; in Siebold’s Samml. chirurg. Beobact., vol. iii. p. 292, pi. iii. Monro, Anatomy of the Gullet, Stomach, and Intestines, Edinb., 1811, p. 380. Hager, above cited, p. 275. Roubein, Annales cliniques de Montpellier, vol. viii. p. 354. 1242. The diagnosis of this rupture is very difficult. Whilst it is small and covered by the great gluteal muscles, it cannot be discovered. In making the diagnosis, we must first remember the seat of the swelling; the suspicion of a rupture is so much the greater when it is congenital, and has a form, namely, a globular form, which other swellings generally have not. It can only be determined when the intestine can be felt in the rupture, which may be returned, and again protrude. In small ruptures the convolutions cannot be at all felt ; and even without adhe- sions the return of this rupture may be impossible, on account of the small size of the aperture by which it has escaped. In large ruptures, an empti- ness of the belly is noticed. Congenital ischiatic rupture first begins with a broad base from the body, but in larger ones the neck is narrower than the bottom. As the urinary bladder can alone lie in dorsal rupture, so must the symptoms of vesical rupture be remembered in the diagnosis. The distinction of this rupture from a fatty or encysted swelling is difficult; it may be easily mistaken for an abscess when it proceeds to suppuration. Spina bifida is distinguished from this rupture by its seat in the middle of the rump-bone, by its fluctuation, and, in most cases, by its transparency. 1243. As in this rupture the pelvic aponeurosis is ordinarily torn and not displaced with it, it is covered only by skin, and by the outspread,THYROID RUPTURE. 87 or divided fibres of the m. levator ani. The sac of the rupture lies between the under inner edge of the great gluteal muscle and the side of the rectum. On the inner side of the hip-bone, the neck of the sac is immediately- surrounded by the obturator artery, both above and below. Upon the outer side of the hip-bone, the ischiatic nerve lies before and below, and the gluteal artery behind (A. Cooper) (a). 1244. Small dorsal ruptures may be easily reduced ; they return of themselves into their proper place. Large and more long-continued ruptures are capable of a slow reduction by a continued suitable position and external pressure. Reduction may be impossible on account of adhesion, or if the greater number of the abdominal organs be contained in the rupture, on account of the contraction of the walls of the belly. According to Astley Cooper, if ischiatic rupture render the operation necessary, and the extension of the mouth of the sac cannot be effected with a blunt hook, it must be divided forwards. Seiler considers it absolutely necessary in dividing the mouth of -the sac, to cut layerwise from without inwards, and to tie the divided arteries immediately. Hager (b) distinguishes an upper and lower ischiatic rupture; the one should descend above the m. pijriformis, the other between it and the ischiatic nerve and the upper of the m. gemini; the one has at its escape from the ischiatic hole the upper gluteal artery above and behind, and the nerve below it; the other has the lower gluteal artery, the pudic artery and vein, and the nerves below it. It is best not to open the hernial sac, and in the superior ischiatic rupture, to divide its mouth forwards and outwards, but in the inferior, forwards and upwards. Scarpa (c) considers this in women as enlarged pudic rupture, and in men as large perineal rupture, and therefore treats them as such. This opinion is perhaps right as regards some of the above-described cases, for instance, those of Papen and Bose ; but it is contradicted by other cases in which there has been sufficient anatomical exami- nation. VI.—OF THYROID RUPTURE. (Hernia Foraminis ovalis seu thyroidei, Lat.; Bruch des eirunden Loches, Germ.; Hernie du Trou ovalaire, Fr.) Garenceot, above cited, vol. i. p. 709. Heuermann, Abhhandlung der vornehmsten chirurg. Operationen. Copenhagen. 1778, vol. i. p. 578. Eschenbach, C., Observata qua:dam anat.-chirurg. medica rariora. Rostoch., p. 2G5. Gcnz, De hemiis, p. 96. Vogel, B., Abhandlung aller Arten der Briiche. Glogau, 1769. 8vo. p. 204. Camper, Demonstrationes anat. pathol., vol. ii. p. 17. Cloquet; in Journal de Medecine par Corvisart, etc., vol. xxv. Bulletin de la Facultd de Medecine, No. 8,1812, p. 194. Bchle, De hernia obturatoria. Hal., 1819. Gadermann, Ueber den Bruch durch das Huftbeinloch, nebst einem seltenen Falle neruber. Lanshut, 1833. 8vo. Cooper, Astley, above cited, part ii. p. 61. Cloquet, J., Pathologie chirurgicale. Paris, 1831. pi. v. 1245. In Rupture of the Thyroid Hole, the intestines pass through the Opening in the ligament by which the obturator nerve and vessels pass Lhe share-bone is in front of the neck of the sac, and its under, inner, and |'uter part, is surrounded by the obturator ligament. The base of the (6) Above cited, p.272. («) Above cited, pi. xxiii, (c) Supplement, above cited, p. 150.THY110ID RUPTURE. 88 rupture is between the m. pectineus and adductor brevis, or between the front heads of the adductor. The obturator vessels are upon its inner hinder part, and large branches of the obturator nerve are before it. Differences however may occur, especially if the obturator and epigas i ic arteries arise in common, of which a case was seen by Gadeumann where the artery passed first on the inner, and then on the front of the hernial sac. This rupture is at first very apparent, if a large quantity of intestine be protruded. It may have a different form, because it penetrates through different interspaces of the muscles. It occurs more commonly in females than in males, and may contain intestines omentum, and even the urinary bladder; and not rarely does it occur at the same time on both sides. rCLOQUET says (a), that “ Ruptures of the suhpuhic (thyroid) hole are much more any great bulk. (P- 619.) „oman forty years old, who, with many symptoms* of strlngu^£ruptnre, ^' came on suddenly, ana recurreu eve y adductor muscles produced severe pain... pressure high™ between the m.■ >h« 3* There was neither tenderness nor whilst passing 0n the part, when had the same symptoms, but w J the belly. This had occurred more something ^“ed to lVsSe7ereV When Frantz attended her, the symptoms were than once since, though ess severe- J di purging, pressure, and other means- much more violent and less tPhe Lth day, and the symptoms of S|e"of st„„, then a nude subject in S. ‘"o B°Jal of Surgeons. J. F. S.] i 1246. The diagnosis is founded on the seat of swelling at the upper; . <• thicrh on its peculiarly elastic tension, on the mode o inner par possibility of its reduction, on the sensation of gurgling, I r of contents in the swelling, and on the gastnc TSl rSn^ns^ (c) M6m. de VAcad. Hoy. de Chfruigie, vol. L p. 711. (d) Lancet, 1829-30, vol. ii. P- J35. («) Mem. dc VAcmd., just cited, p. <08. ( /) AUgemeine Medicinische, Central Zcitung. April, 1842. i i i89 VAGINAL RUPTURE. C«) Above cited, p. 29. '»ore lengthened downwards, and the pad conies directly below the trans- verse branch of the share-bone, at the origin of the m. pectineus If there be strangulation, if the remedies employed be ineffectual, and the operation be indicated, the enlargement of the stricture, when possible must be effected in the bloodless way, with the blunt hook from within outwards, and downwards. The dilatation with the knife, if necessary must, according to Astley Cooper, be made inwards. If the rupture be concealed beneath the muscles, the diagnosis is rarely so certain tha the operation can be undertaken. According to Gadermann (a), the cut must be made through the skm and femoral ligament, an inch below Poupart’s ligament and as far from the pubic symphysis and continued rather inwards, about four inches in heads‘of ^5iee m. CUt thr°Ugh obli(luely> and also the long and short VII.—OF VAGINAL RUPTURE. {Hernia vaginalis, Lat.; Scheidenbruch, Germ.; Hernie vaginale, Fix') Garengeot, above cited, p. 707. Hoin, above cited, p. 211. occurring in Labour, in the Edinburgh Stark, Dissert, de hernia vaginali et strictura uteri. Jena, 1796. Cooper Asti.ey, above cited, part ii. p. 56. nnlftf' Vaginal Rupture the intestines pass down in the fold of the fho n hT b.etween the womb and the rectum, or between the former and ..,„H rp, c J , the vagina, or the womb when it is on its hoot .he colon TJ7^cnZlf°n:^ °f womb is completely free Jf , ” “ n.pme posture- TIle »>outh of the raojina, it is ^eSly deeper t,'n ““"l, ^ ^ Wnd W1" °f llle usually accompanied with^yreaMnoonve? ’ ‘ 6 case il * placement of the bladder. °With In - nienc8j 1,1 consequence of dis- the vagina there is most eommm l p2'6 luPture at the hinder wall of be caused hastily, by violent .strainiir^aJf ?i°f r ,he If tlie ruPture something were torn in thevaaina and ^ 16 ^ t ie Patient feels as if s converted into a remitting“olicky paTn" Tth .-b-quently ion tain the bladder, it causes <?rent S P? . If tie vagmal rupture he urethra, retention ofurin^t^-^!! ? make wafer> itching in •ometimes agitation, restlessness d™ &"d Pai"bl1 dlstension of the belly, hsturbances of the nervous system Shf ^ +th j ®tomach> and sundry •stone may be formed. J ‘ 1 1 e P10truded part of the bladder ^T^ovicTus^1 eLiv^-^ ^wMtes0^ rUptUrG are’ re]axati™ of ■athmg, fire-pans, relaxed stlt^of thf L TproP?.r use of ^itus, warm -ackwards, so that the in testLies sink b°fy’ n/cIll]alion of the pelvis ode pelvis. This ruptureleSillTL"1"6 Cleepl£ into ifc> and also -raining ; it rarely happens iif urniiarried^vomem °n ^ W90 PERINiEAL RUPTURE. (n) Above cited, p. a3. 1250. The replacement of vaginal rupture is dually ^^pon'the by relaxing clysters, and by coibv a^cylindrical pessary, which trusion of the ruptuie is bes pi 7 t ^ust avoid all straining, can be fixed with a T bandage. The P^^t jnust t muJ and if the rupture protrude in spite.erf ^ pessary, that ^ a be removed, and after the recuc ion , ^ ’ continued use of the cure may perhaps in many cases be If this rupture pessary and of astringent injec ions back by continued pressure, protrude during childbirth, it must be kep “““ P ^ till the child’s head have descended, a^ tihen^elg ^ on pleted. Vaginal rupture maybe Dtts surr0unding the rupture) by account of the yieldingness of the parts ^rrouna^ q{ W the enlarged womb .during preg yitable means, at least no ~ i,so is possible when the rupture is low clown m the vagi™• „4Inli„ P The midwife Romeo (a) recommends . rmg-pessnry of watch sp g rubber for keeping up this rupture. VIII —OF PERIN2EAL RUPTURE. 1251. Pennteal Rupture oeeurs y beUveen the rectum and between the rectum and vagina in w > nerinteum is different;: bladder in men The external swel1 n^m ,he „eck of ,l,e it presents itself in the male ge y ’usim!]y on one or other • bladder ; in women between the vag »a and anus, m J , t, side, and at the bottom of the Thm np ^ In women it; the intestinal canal, of the om t re (1). In men it causes- must always be complicated with vaginal rupture various urinary inconveniences re ^ women ;s not Pos- (1) Chopabt and Desault [b) formed. Its existence in women bas. how'- £ ssa1 KSfat- ®W' ®’ ' also A. Cooper (n). _ i nossible in violent driving of 1252. Perinseal rupture 13™r®^t resistance of the coverings of the the intestines downwards i o fold between the vagtna and belly, great relaxation o ^, , i upr -md in slight inclination of the redlm, or between the rectum and bladder, and ^ K1,ecia) y pelvis. Per‘”“kJ'the*bladder is tbrust downwards and outwards by « in pregnancy, when£ “ „ w * «—* - - I i i it {< it 1 sur 1835. ii mUun»t,vol.Ii. PP. 14i,14S. ^HoiK^Bbove cited, p. 135. (A) Mcmotrw de l'Acad de Chirurgie. voL I* ^ f ft Cliirurgical Observations, p- Hcrni® C KR’8Tmnslation,M6moire sur^ p* U^* du Porinee ; at the end of . joiil#1* (/) In von Grakfe und \> ai.tbkk Frankfurt, 1827. Svo.9i RECTAL RUPTURE. distended womb (a). In men, perinaeal rupture lias a round or pear-shaped form; the swelling is in the perinceum, on one side of the anus, so that the raphe is pressed somewhat aside. In women, so long as the rupture remains in the perinceum, the swelling is roundish, and bluntly conical- pointed ; as it extends into the labium it becomes oblong, egg-shaped. Generally perinaeal rupture is small, or up to the size of a hen’s egg ; but it may attain considerable bulk. 1253. The return of this rupture is usually easy, and it may be kept back by a bandage, consisting of a spring surrounding the pelvis, from the hinder part of which a curved spring descends, and attached to its extremity i conical pad, which being applied directly upon the seat of the rupture he latter is kept up by the strength of the spring and by an elastic band- ige around the thigh. If this rupture be strangulated, and its reduction )y suitable remedies impossible, the operation is neither difficult nor langerous, as the opening of the hernial sac is almost always external to he bottom of the pelvis. After opening the sac, a button-ended bistoury s to be introduced between the intestine and the tough edge of the hernial ac, and the strangulation may be relieved by a slight'eut from below lpwards, obliquely towards the side (Scarpa.) The opinion, that by pressing hack the external swelling, the rupture cannot be com- pletely reduced, is disproved by Scarpa’s observations. , Th«Pude?dal Hernia of Astlev Cooper (6), the posterior labial rupture of Seiler »to be considered merely as a variety of the perimeal rupture in women The intes’ ines descend along tha vagina, between it and the m. levator ani, and form a swellina on he under half of the labium. It is distinguished from inguinal rupture hWhe Z art of the labium and the abdominal ring being quite free It is felt on L, ' l PP “‘T into the ea.jina, pressing on theside of ,L p.Sge, high f "“™duc‘"S See Scarpa, above cited, p. 139. ° F i Cloquet, J.; in Nouv. Journ. de Medecine, vol. i. p 497 Bompard; in Dictionnaire des Sciences Medicales de Bruxelles, vol. vii. p. 448. I IX.—OF RECTAL RUPTURE. I Hernia Me.tini recii, La,.', Mastjam, Heirocile, Arch.cile, Hernia iu Scureger, above cited, p. 136. ■e1'r contr,is terns to be slig-ht inclination of 1 • ,•1®Posltl()U to this rupture ,0"lom ‘light curving „f lhe rump W '* p,'°Jeotio" of ll'e pro- ntoa„teT(LlXSaLThr ^ Wrad- the long .sition of the Ly shoTshV 1 v especially if thf e flatness of the upper part of °f the pdvis ; thirdly, if ' the small intestines; Tnd fourthlyVVie 1Cat«.an ll“n;1.tural deepness )on the one side of greater size and at tl celling of the prolapse be 'd fuller, than on^the other ’ The •'m<T firmer> niore elastic amination ; the attempt to ret diagnosis is determinable only by ejng whether there be Ly motion ofthe cont^'T ^ves opportunity for ■ <•) KO.C, »,.g,„nt,182.PHRENIC RUPTURE. 92 in which there is thickening, enlargement, and so on, has great resem- blance to such adherent rupture. Rectal rupture may inflame ; there may > be even strangulation, by the contraction of the sphincter muscle. consists in the return of the rupture, and when . this is done in preventing its reprolapse, as will be mentioned in spea mg . of the rectal prolapse. If the replacement be impossible, the case must bei treated as a prolapse of the rectum. X.—OF PHRENIC RUPTURE. C.Hernia phrenica, Lat.; Zwerchfellbruch, Germ.; Hernia diaphragmatique, Fr.) rProtrusions through the diaphragm occur in different ways. First Through the natural apertures by which the aorta, vena cavau | inferior oesophagus and intercostal nerves pass. These are very rare, and* Astley Coon;a says he has never seen an instance. Morgagni mentions - < one in which the omentum, the duodenum, and jejunum, with part o he J ileum ascended by the side of the oesophagus, and compressed the heart andjl lunS into a very small compass (a) ; also another, in which part of he colon a large portion of the omentum and the pancreas passed .throdgb colon, & ia■ & 1 , Fantoni also mentions a case, in which the f stomach and part of the omentum had entered the chest by the side of theJ Second From malformation of the diaphragm, which is more frequentJ and is'more common on the left than on the right side, and in the musc4H thlTthe tendinous portion of the muscle (1). Macaueay mention^ one case in which the stomach and greatest part of ^pancreas had pasffl into the cavity of the left pleura ; and another, in which he whole liver ad entered the right pleura (c). If the protrusion and the aperture b* d l i p the child dies soon after birth. But if the aperture be sinffl the patient may live for some years , and in the case mentioned by Astlev « Cooper (d) the following symptoms were observed. Oppression m biea* |j Cooper gej J ^creased in years the least hurry in exercise, ! ^exertion of strength, produced pain in the left side, a frequent eoughM 1 lAnrinm re-miration After great exertion an attack of pain h 1 rtf™ part of the abdomen, with vomiting, anti a sensation of someflM dragging; to the right side, and always referred to the stomach. 1 lm d , S® J thp£.p symptoms was as sudden as their accession ; after suffering J. sation of these ^ pain and sickness ceased. These symptom 77 i have passe S together with a considerable portion oi omen are unprovided with an, hernial sae . /LAnTXmboth seeming to terminate at the margin of th fTTZ™ however; relates a case, in which there was a sac cons,** ,° T than a tennis-ball in the right side of the chest, consisting of ably huge united, with its orifice at a small distance from tl Srside of the ensiform cartilage, where there appeared a deficiency - c right SI (C) Medical Observations and Enquiries, W- [b] Dc'obserf. Med. et Anat. Epist. 1714. Epist. Medical Reconls an,i Researches. t xxiii.93 MESENTERIC AND MESOCOLIC RUPTURE. fibres in the large muscle of the diaphragm. The sac contained the right extremity of the stomach and beginning of the duodenum, the arch of die colon, and part of the omentum (3). Third, Yx°m wounds or laceration of the muscle, which remain during life. This may happen from penetrating wounds with the sword, or by broken ribs being thrust through the diaphragm. Sometimes even a blovv on the belly, received in a fall, will rupture the tendon of the diaphragm. Ihe patient lived five days, and on examination the stomach and part of lie duodenum were found protruded into the left pleura (4). (A. Cooper ) J1,) lDf Tn0maS’S M,USeUm th6/e, are two specimens of Phrenic Rupture through he left side of the muscular part of the diaphragm; in the one small intestines and Tn he other part of the stomach has passed into the chest ' (2) This preparation is in the Museum at St. Thomas’s. Two other cases are men- 10.ned; oue i'y Clark (a), and the other by the younger Monro (b). rch of tWS7anCea>*R>r0trUS!011 ofuhalf [he Pyloric extremity of the stomach, the whole nkr nnr fnn ZTulld/ e T ’ thr°uSh a hoIe’two inches diameter, in the left mus- ular portion of the diaphragm, near the vertebra, is mentioned by Leacock (c) in a man f forty-nine, who had severe pain of the belly, especially at the pit of the stomach • con (ant vomiting with rigors and disposition to syncope on the slightest movement ’ He led within thirty hours of the symptoms coming on g movement. He CaSC ?{ aperture through the tendon of the diaphragm, by which the stomach y MacfIuyS X COl°n’ and °menlUm paSSed int°the left'side °f the chest, is related XI.-OF MESENTERIC AND MESOCOLIC RUPTURES. (Hernia mesenterica et mesocolica, Lat.) It might at first sight appear incorrect to describe these as ruDt.ires ecause they do not leave the cavity of the hellv • w fi pt ,s’ Sf mptoms of strangulation may be questionable Of h f eVei' pi'eSent rned by A. Cooper rmthinr . i onable. Of the two cases men- 2 symptoms might have beeifis'of litde e’ a"d hlS Pre®umPtion of what pture, all the small intestines exeunt h L“nsecluence- In the mesenteric ; mesentery by a small anertnre ; . ^ duodenum, had passed between dure, the aperture was in the front \ S ayer‘ In the mesocolic e, and it contained Jthp,™ ir * layer of the mesocolon on the right j of the jejunum, and the termination oTthe^ileul ^T duodenum'a sma11 has seen an instance of 1 thQ }leum- Lawrence says (f) on belonging to the tZoTt that Portion of the meso- bbbt’s caseB(g)° L whfch the iZZ °f, COlm> and a,so refei* to * "* “ ^ “ op2gPoTthe roeBoLWmS' ? Tractions of a Sorion, Treatise on Crural Hernia. A. Cooper, above cited, p. 72. S Aboveeit'el; partii^! J7°3Urn'VO,-xix P- y ) Above cited, p. 630. p. 522. rait <lCS Ataladiea Chirurgienles, vol. i.94 Review, vol. ii>« P- n tb) Above cited, p. *&• STRANGULATION WITHIN THE PERITONEUM. (PAs3Si disease is necessarily fatal, it has ■ near the presumed seat of the ob®t'^t^ "^"tren ; but his failure is attri- • was done, though without succes , Y ^ of the operation having been buted to his own wishes m th d however that his proposal overruled. The examination alter death proveu was the correct one (a). XII.—STRANGULATION OF IimSTTNE WITHIN THE PERITONEAL UAV 111. . The bowels may b-me according to Astley Cooper (6), 1Y P °n b adhesions consequent,; layers of the omentum, mesentepr or a portion of intestine becomes- on inflammation leaving an aperture J&t the mouth of the hernial, confined ; and by a membranous ban |n[, return 0f the intestine, sac, lengthening by the repeated p fini it. To these may also be and at last accidentally entangling an h o hernial saC, which added the adhesion of the behind between itself sometimes becoming tense, PreSf " ^ ^eilti ll the passage of its contents,> i and the hind wall of the belly, am Lice has already beem > £&%?nffalTin?, 1) as being connected with the ordinary;. Of progress vary very much in :“£^2 appearing to be one » on gradually, and advance very ;btended with an almost indolen ,, mechanical obstruction, and instances the close pressure of thi enlargement of the abdome • , entern\s- the inflammatory symp stricture excites active pen 1 proceeds rapidly to a fatal tey™^ toms are strongly marked, and the c P V indicated in tl.es - nation. As the exciting.cause of Uie nnsclue and treated a cases by any characters i -Yl enteritis. The real nature of the nwa examples of orfinaiy »ml^and time, and more especiall lad, is not suspected until it h® "e“5li tio„ with fecal vomiting, from the combination of obstma P „ , g30V The disease if left to itself is inevitably fatab <P- b“Jion of Rok,t*xski • "Semite of the relation of - par • roi.,,,1 £ includes three subspecies; ^ & n of mtestineAn s he ax b, round an axis formed& mesentery turns,so as to■ 5 SS of the n,esentery; ‘o^ to touch the g round which another larger portion with its mes y peculiar arrange^* ' formed, a, oy nurowi (O)JOBKKT, p.581. (c) Above cited. xix. jii-w , ----- 1837RUPTURES OF THE CHEST. 95 or mesentery; c, by adherent ,/tiKrrticf/Za; d, by the adhesion of two convolutions at a simile point; e, by perforations in the mesentery, or by fissures in an omentum altered by disease The conclusions which Rokitansky draws from the numerous cases with which his papier is illustrated are, First, That though no age precludes the possible occurrence of internal strangulations of the intestines, yet they are most frequent in the middle and advanced periods of life. Second That for a longer or shorter period before the fatal ternim«Uion, the patient is attacked by symptoms indicating a strangulation of the intes- tine. These generally commencing with a sudden cutting pain in the bowels fin some T a deteminate P°iDt) fol!owed ^ ™re or l«\5d%iSe"S tension of the belly, tympany constriction of the chest, anxiety, nausea, vomitin ' according to the violence and duration of the strangulation, sluggish bowels and lornr continued costiveness occur, with or without the previous symptoms. Rest in g aperients, and favourable positions of the body, mi titrate or d,«moio +1' gentle tlie iff e^reCar from the original cause, and terminate fatally. Third. The ^ursTof Intftf’1 Isno generally very rapid ; it seldom destroys the patient before the second day, and frequently runs on for six, eight, or ten days; rarely extends to the third teet and is then interrupted by remissions and seeming improvements Fourth Thp ’ may be distinguished mostly by the appearance of the Datient i • dlse,ase th,ir origin f?„m „ determinate o.usRnd E^rsf W theInESsrftsf SX**! the attacks; by their suddenness and progress™ incr'eaj ofte?ucertaintriS.TS finally, by insurmountable costiveness. Rokitansky reiects all medipir } ’■ purgatives, and proposes the knife as the only means of reHefi-J R S f Sp6C,aIly II. Of Ruptures of the Chest. Chaussier; in Journal de Medecine, par Leroux. March, 1814. Vergne, sur les Hermes des Poumons. Paris, 1825. . Ruptures of the Chest are very rare, and no other uart than tl ~ SETgS ?£££ *»»»»,na,., 1"4! resulting from imperfect development of the^s'ofarSn ^hey occur subsequently, by destruction of the walls of the chert wittom lbsVtetri'nlTSe feferZtilm^H by severe co^h m '‘bfd °t *' dherent to the surrounding parts (2). J ™ ruptures’ lf they are not ib' on the left side,^which hoccuiTCd' during the^“ng be^een the sixth and seventh lastic, an inch and a half long, and three oufi • ^1C .s,welling was soft and very mspiration. Gratelup returned it md annlWl mch ^ld<:’and was painful at (^R^Systia? ”S7 inCOnve^e4e> and Severn? * after as wounded in the chest. The Corresponding lSdier 7° ^ the battle °f Rosbach lattered by the ball were lost Tl,o If1- ? Portlons of two ribs which had been 2 afttr 'uUtd IrnTa I^wTchat'05611’ 7 the,broad tnk and rose again.” (p. 4, 5.)] g blch at cvery breathing alternately icasional caiisi^a™oft 'Stic swlmrff^ °f fhe just-mentioned darges, often brino-s on a n iinf„l 0 ” pr°d!'ce(1’ which gradually railing is returned ° Its pnlai iao8ing; which ceases when the e chest in respSmnT corresponds with the movements of 1 beah^e?fOT becwse'd by.mea"s. of pressure, but stored.°f of tbehibs J («) Richtkr’s Abhandliing von Uruchen. Edition 1785.96 RUPTURES OF THE CHEST. [As to togs are occasion,!., found on. of .heir proper ^vj.yjn consej^of deficient formation of the chest and other ca , - chest iteelf, 0r actual removal tion, -whether it be simply unnatural p nrrment of the heart f Ectopia Cordis yLat-)* \ from it in a greater or less degree, is called displai t J be situated either, When the congenital displacement j as quoted a, horizontally, which is very rare; ^ ^between the lungs, and its by Breschet (a) ; c, vertically wit P P jn De Torres> case (b); or d, the base with the large vessels as low as the “a , £ jntedjn the same direction, heart may he more or less to Hie rig d d ^ or without transposition of the fougr cases (c). Similar examples have also been 110When the heart is congenitally^displaced A™* fo^e^kind speaks of casesW ccmnected wRh^eficienc^^ th^ ar^abdon^al^n^de^in^whic^ t^e heart, liver, and stomach, sometimes also the g sometimes by an extension contained in a sac, sometimes covered on y J P ■ the sheath of the umbilical of the common integuments, and sometimes occ py g R has als0 given an cord, forming a variety of umbiheal ruptore (P 25-)^ absence of the ensiform account (<f) of partial displacement of^ the^hear , ff in whicb a portion of pen- • cartilage, and part of the reelz muscl■« d £ raa’urally lengthened, protruded cardium, containing the tip of \ immediately beneath the integument The together with part of the arch of the colon 1mmecnaimy t0 the touch. Or the chihl lived three months, and the heart app d ribs 0r breast-bone. Of the protrusion may depend on fissure, or deficie: y a -rl of ten years, in whom Latter kind of displacement Ramel (e) mentions a cas g ^ ^ stomach Des- the heart was placed below the • whom the heart was found in place of f £542^^3^^“^ of three cases in which the heart was. f°D?sptaS™f«f to tort after birth various kinds of diseases ; £son having been Crushed between: of the heart from external violence, inwlncli tne p J the lower rlbs on the. a water-wheel and the embankment supporting 1, right clavicle and,-.- "eft side, the fifth sixth, and seventh on^nght -de, humerus broken. For the first th cbest with a sensation as if a foreigiqjl wards felt great pain int:^ehad been intLduCed into the right lung; the pm ** bodv nreventmg respiration had be soon discovered that lus uUe .0 m,. usual habits of hunting and shooting. fferzbruch, Germ.; Harmed* Actual protrusion of the heart (Hernia > OaAU^siERgives the account Caw o* Cardiocele, Fr.) is very rare evencongem^ly. C^tj^g <w iach toe, a female iufan. in whom to,, ™j““ d ,o^p.rtS.f .he bell,,» high, and two and a quarter mches broad at the upper * ^ of the heart and which on the slightest inspection, the form and vai ous size varied according the dilatation and contraction of its ventric esi \\ tc j tbc heart rose and seemed to the different states of respiration ; whe . ? tbe beart was driven forwards. piS, told into to chert, b« »to»he exprtd Tl„ „,1W and downwards and the motions ot the ve . child cried, especially when Gradually increased in bulk, and enlarged when the chiM en , ^ iet and la.c she was held upright; but it became softer and smof™euW As far as conk down. Gentle pressure also diminished ti e ■ the chest, below the edgeo •ivlj 4 _ , , ,„N Sur 1'Ectopie ilu Occur; in Uepcrt. Genor. cVAnatomie ct de Physiologic Patl.olog.ques, be., vol. ii,, P* *1* Paris, 1B26. 4to. § fcjwisxaw, i~ tow toire General d’Anatomie. (d) Transact, of Provine. Med. andSurg. A-<* V°h)'joumal'de M.decine. yol. (/) Journal Gcner.de Mid., • , i)Urnb' Yg) Edinburgh Medical and bm-gica vol! xxxvi. p. 44.RUPTURE OF THE BRAIN. 97 following pairs of ribs had no cartilages, but the seventh pair had cartilages, and united with each other at the mesial line. The interspace thus left on the front of the chest was large oblong, and seemed covered only by skin, and all the movements of the heart cou d be perceived through it: but there was not any protrusion. The man was sohlier s lifiT(a)^] ^ SerV6d SeVe’al yearS’ aud sustained the ordinary fatigues of a HI-—Of Ruptures of the Brain. Fasc. i. art. i. De Corvin’us, Dissert, de hernia cerebri. Argent., 1749. ierm“ebS; medic°-‘hi™rgi™. ™ , ar, , ue fclMe'm°ire SUr 1,EnCephal0C&le 1 in Memoires de l’Academie de Chirurgie, Oehme, Dissert, de morbis recens natorum chirurgicis. Lips, 1773. Held, Dissert, de hernia cerebri. Giess, 1777, 4to. Sallxeuve, Dissert, de hernia cerebri. Gotting, 1792. 8vo. JNiejieyr, De hernia congenita. Halse, 1833. Thienig, Dissert, de hernia cerebri. Gotting, 1792. 8vo Earle, Henry, in Med.-Chir. Trans, vol. vii. p. 427 8Lipschitz, Encephaloceles Requisite cum abscessu cerebri observ. Regimontii, S™’ A' Lehrbuch der pathologischen Anatomie, vol. i. Berlin is30 • 169, 1837, AS SZg’SS&'ffi. AND‘ cyolop’adisches Worter’buch, vol. xvi. Jernie du ^irnbruch, Germ.; ccidentally after birth ; in the former case the b™hf^f’' T may arise )me place correspondino-to the sntm-P« • ’+1 i ain Protrudes through Uri by loss of substance? 68 J 111 the ktter’ through an opening rnia cerebri as used b^Enghstil most ^ °U<?’ sWs that the term ain fr356 "1Ch they so “ame has employed, inasmuch as n from its proper cavity and enveloped in its n.,t° f ruPture or protrusion of the a tearing through of its investing membranes an^^t cov®riDSs’ bl't is consequent the brain itself, for the repair of! chr^Sv, a, Wiant granulating process ich that organ has been wounded • or to fill ' esultlog; from external violence, by So? ‘ITT “d *Cqum Z~Z 'k«»l»r2iS oduced -pi16, ",ra mater’ set UP by necrosis of th! qu.e°t on .inflammation and oauced. The henna cerebri of British f the neighbouring skull-bone lias te" W.Js iu feet, M ,7“-* *'« bis, papShS &rowth of a brain-ulcer to fill nn -s mere\y a luxuriant, or so- £ ted active healing ulcer of wliiMi ^ ts cavity, and is nothing more thnn &T” •"““4 its self-cure being too ir Vlo were 1Ilteilded to cure. This state of th Prevent tbe reparation of b of which n P‘ 425)5 and i{ lnust not be cmifusS ^btb'f been alreaV noticed od-swelHnlofTh^l^T c1 aCCOUnt has b<*>i JvenVB r°T,?der considera- P‘ S-J ° °f DeWly-b0rn child>'en,which in Hahi.es' N,M,e.s ioiirn l i°S fr°m HuFELANn 5"nde, &c, wlio’n,,,,, ti‘ erprak,ischen Arz- •Msif.k's in i , ' f K'm ,rom n paper of ch, I«14 s 5 '!.°"rn:'1 <le Mrdecine, h bon ring volumes qd 11 t,1,!re> or tile ^ol. xr • article! whims’Amtet IT" °f this «eeUent sr^o..;; (.«; Above cited. 1 ' II98 CONGENITAL CEREBRAL 1261. Congenital Cerebral Rapture is the consequence of an in«mpl«e or retarded formation of the skull-bones, the interspace being Med only by fibrous membrane, through which the bran,, of expansion, as in hydrocephalus, protrudes (1). I occ,ra tmostf in the middle of the occipital bone, in the region of the grc 1 bole, or at the posterior' fontanel ; it may be, however a.™y^ mrt of the skull where the bones are still separate. It is chamctemea W swelling of various sire, covered by the integuments of be skull rnmmmmm cerebral ruptures, there arises from the ^f^J^^ht moans and pass their short life in eontrnual inflake J nourished, and are frequently convutori. The? frequently,0without any disturbance of the bodily or mental powers bemg K hairwi™'W young man of eighteen, w* - »»»»■ “““ff and almost speechless. , , Dtuve the qalea aponeurotica and dura mater, On examination of congenita ce eb^\^X external skin. In the sac formed by them are found tolerably united together^ tBBica arachnoidea and pia mater y is a large or small portion of biain, covered y freauently there is a consider- the entire surface is moistene^1^“°USS Vhave been hitherto observed in this rupture., able quantity of serous fluid. No adhesions within the skull, but surrounded^ The condition of the d«pWbm m » ™ “x ded with water, maybe contamed at its base with a groove Apart of the vent ,V m ied with sp}na bifida.^ in the rupture. Not unfrequently is oereora iv P Rupture of the Brain; HirnvxuM [(1) Otto observes (/) on tbis t0 depend rath/r on a diseased partaU serhrwch, Germ.; HydrocephahceLe, ¥ . ) < ^ cer[ainly in the greater number 4 enlargement of the brain, which, ’ ,ieficient development of the skuWj instances, depends on hydrocephalus, rather ton dhi 40§.) And “ although bones, which seems only to be consequent^on ^ rupture, in some cases, perhaps, a simple hype t p p almost all the well-observed cases fj yet hydrocephalus is usually its , have also noticed it in the cs*fl SSKf with a remarkably large head, ^umSrece did not further enlarge, but a swellmf £S:i,sr5??s. ,*** *—.*«*.- *■Mir PO Above cited. ,o d. QsiorvMioni e Memorte,vol.i.* rh\ Ferband, above cited. 91 Padova. 1793. 8vo. .. 407 fll] ol.v. p.201. , .... w.tTutu'i .tour- «nd_ it? Membrane*, al,,s lnternu*! 8 V°(eJ’^on°Gbaefk und vov Walthek's .lour rial, vol. ix. p. 1-6. (/) Above cited. and its Membranes, arising m - . of fluid in a case of Hydrocephalus inier Mcd.-Chir. Trans., vol. vui. p. »»•99 RUPTURE. another week acquired the magnitude of a goose’s egg. At this period of the disease the mother, on going one morning to take up the child, was very much surprised to find that the swelling.had become much smaller, and perfectly soft. She observed likewise a constant dribbling of water from the urinary passages, and that the bed was soaked with the discharge. It continued incessantly for three days and three nights. By this time the swelling had entirely disappeared, the head was considerably smaller, and the integuments which before were very much distended, now fell in large wrinkles over the child’s forehead, so as actually to cover the eyes.” (pp. 51, 2.) After two mouths the discharge by the urinary organs diminished, the head acquired greater size than before, “ having on this occasion extended itself over the whole of the head and face. * * * A watery discharge, tinged with blood, was seen to ooze from the nostrils and mouth. It continued without ceasing for three days, when the swell- ing on the top of the head had vanished, and the head itself was much smaller. The fluid never again accumulated in the sack on the outside of the head, nor did the head ever gain its. former magnitude, because the discharge from the nostrils was kept up, with slight intermission, till the time of its death,” (p. 52, 3,) which occurred about eleven months after. Baron observes in explanation, that “ the expansion of the brain, its membranes, and of the cranium, seems to have gone on till the parts would stretch no longer, when the rupture took place which caused the first swelling and established a free and large communication between it and the interior of the brain.” (p. 55.) In very rare cases the fluid is contained between the brain and its membranes, and protruding, the latter forms its only contents as in Textor’s (a) and Thompson’s (6) cases. v v ' • Sometimes a portion of the cerebrum, sometimes a part of the cerebellum is contained m ese ruptures, and an instance is given in which the whole cerebellum was found in a rupture through the occipital bone (c). There is also usually fluid, on which account the disease has been named hydroencephalocele. Congemtai cerebral rupture is considered by Meckel (d) to arise either from collection or tiuid in the brain or on its surface, in which case a portion of the brain and its mem- branes are protruded. And as to its more frequent occurrence on the occipital bone than nipclsf/h °TTO ,Say,S’ th,at th,s haPPens because “ the occipital bone consists of several fn thr! I, e’ ThlC1 T\J at a more advauced period unite, and that the water collected bv „ p rl°r,h0rn the vFn.tnc e can act more powerfully upon the four pits formed inclined 2Tp\talJb?ne than upon the other parts, which rather form an through the eniirmd 4n,d he says, that in this case “the brain penetrate* pec ialMesh, ‘ bflp01iC,Pc’ 5 h°le’ ani ,th° Cleft l,PPer verteb™ of the neck, or through _ the.slle]I of jhe occipital bone, or at its upper angle.” (p. 410.) Among MorpaWY,Pplt,0nS °f tll S r"Pture milst be mentioned the cases mentioned f and s minlp !CHT'R {f) ln Which the swed’ng appeared at the root of the nose and, st!11 more rarely where it protrudes into the orbit, the nostril, and the sphenoidal bee^h?eLSn7v mfntZPf ^e%are mUCh Kger than the head itself> of which a case has head aWe the ears wnc J7, FoRGEM«L (?) - 111 this instance the circumference of the imetres ‘S 0n y ~ ceutimetres, whilst that of the tumour was 30 cen- apPfilS t0 be double’ eitber iu consequence of inus or by a tendino s hnS d '? PT-SS °f the dura mater’ and of *e longitudinal ived till six vears old ^ t 1Dt0 tW° halveS’ as in Wepfer’s case (h), which lunlicitv nf tiip l -i These, however, must not be confounded with the actual \Otto “ at its commencement S ialves. And hi Bill!t,her’ whur,e the one was again divided into two >ave been a second rupture ” the SCar above the hernial rupture appeared to v* cte *r i,,s,”c's’ Ot JMlckels (j), ill which it occurred; “ scarred spots being (a) Nenc Chiron., vohji. p. 409- j0ndon Medical Repository, vol. ii. p. 353. e^ruhnlre vof i'" Sllfno,-D’» Journal dir die iT!, vo1' lv- P- tof- 1823. r, ,'Ief Pathologischen Anatomic, belp«g, 1812. 8 vo. («) Uictionnalre de Mcdecine, vol. viii p 51 (f) Comment. Soc. (lotting, vol. xv.p. 29 1804 p lfo24 1,U1845 d° rACad’ K°y>de Mcdecine, vol. x. (A) Ohs. de Affect.Capit., p. 4(1. Scaplmsii, 1717. (i) Traite des Maladies dcs Enfans nouveaux- nes, &c. Paris, 1828. Hvo. / j) Descript, monstrorum nonnullorum. p. 57. Lips., 1820. H II 2100 ACCIDENTAL CEREBRAL RUPTURE. found where in the fetus the water had escaped, and the brain seemed to have fallen together.” (p. 412.)J ■ether/' (,p. 412.)J . , ,, 1262. Iu Accidental Cerebral Rupture the brain by means of its alternating pressure, at the sp°‘ "here a p nJuI^ of the skull has formed an opening, which is o »f covering* fibrous substance. As the sear has not the extenstbtl. ? «f “ ^“g-fe in congenital rupture, so accidental swelling always pulsates, increases Kurnikl, the edge somewhat during inspiration. It the o of the opening in the bone may be felt. • 1 j 1 , , , . rFck “ so rarely observed that nothing i fetSedXtt fas i * 'SZtZf&Z Sge” .7Eedition^^faa^lp. mO ! the purpose. I do not know of any mstanc > f bone eitber by the violence ; in the skull which has been consequent o . w]licb bas removed it to relieve itself which has broken it, by the surgical op direct injury or constitutional the brain from pressure, or by exfoluiti0^ Jof the brain with its cellnlo- disease locally affecting the skull > P , ejther of these causes an apertur^ fibrous covering has taken place. Indeed, , « 1P soft parts around it has been formed in the skull, «* -posed has scarred by its edges inosculating, pither itself becomes converted into a dura mater, of which the surface first ^^S’dTSiSdSg scalp; in such cases, thin skin, or is covered with skin starting from the^e is a seeming instead of any protrusion of the brain ^ ^ Cesnondent to the thickness of the bone depression, which, however, is rea y Y ^ tbe s]iull of the cellulo-fibrous sub- lost, and not an actual dropping into the cavity o^fie sRu edge of the bony stance, which fills up the hole left by the deficient ^ ifBtbere bad beea aperture in these cases is almost into bone. The pulsa- au unsuccessful attempt to convert e unexcited sometimes, though not always, tions of the brain are, when the patient YiUle time after the scarring lias distinctly perceptible through this substance foi ig anulating, little or no been perfected; but sometimes even whilst the d t bec^es older and tougher beating of the brain is observable. As, icweveMne eutirdv ceascs. But though the pulsation becomes less and less pei P ’ ^ om any cause, the patient be such is the case under ordrDa^ c.rc»™Mc^et .f M ^ agitated and the ctrenlat.on emAeae*L££'JSl the agitation passes off. This I “ eve, one mush who has seen large apertures ,n the sk. , i?„Vl£Usrn,.«^ the general vascularity of the scar h^ dimmished,^ 'onsequently> it not unfits; all other newly-formed parts, its vita y ° d > d ahl ulcerates and quently ulcerates superficiaUy,_ heals up slowly, ana ^ sufficiently stout to «S“:sa=3j| I: ■,101 DIAGNOSIS AND TREATMENT. ing sound bone, were all brought away, and so left a terrible chasm in the cranium ” n nlntVn-f lilV v 110 '“teguments cicatrized, but she continued to wear a plate of lead which had been applied over all the dressings on the fifth day after the tim ed tell’ Sven °™‘V ^ the"’ ?inkin1? herSelf secu"e> she laid h asid*- and con- tim ea well se\en months more, when the lank-cough, (whooping cough ) then STZen hei’’ ‘Tld WaS S° vi°lent one nieht wh“ she was in bed, *u f ? !?’ hend ,was lacerated> and the brain was pushed out at the tegu- "cain ” ra M ^°r’-1 fbT,d ab0Ve two ounces of the brain lying on die heVteason’and'ton? tUe parays's °f tbe Ilmbs ensued- bllt she had still the use of tier reason and tongue; was much inclined to sleep, had a low depressed nnlso five'da^ Cs°he'died hn^nT? difC,harSe of ™- Mter continuing in this state for’ J F S.] d ’ but uufortuuately no examination of her body was permitted.— fn,!263‘ SCK!ental cerebral rupture is distinguished from the so-called fungus of the dura mater, by its origin ; further, by its usually only occur- Tlm m!re at VfnCe<, agf’ and 18 Preceded by Pain, stupor, and the like. The congenital cerebral rupture may be distinguished from the blood- SS on °tiieestle°rnefeCia/ly by the latter’ in general, being , „ ,. s °f the head, and being unaccompanied with any sjmptoms of disturbed cerebral functions; whilst congenital cerebral Pture always arises on the region of the suture. Both cerebrum and W- an<l ,he Sreater P“'1 of t,le con- rupb!reW0ccun^no-?l?N- ^ °^erS’ have described cases of cerebral onP as in neither ° 1 ghA Panetal bone, but they are the less to be relied rence however CJSe W£f tbere any a»atomical examination. The occur- proved by anat^micaTefaminS^)1.11 ^ ^ ^ *S newly-t?n cTddren ^ ^ 0,1 the bead of of wa,.- oecnSTS * cdeotion consists in returnlnoand retainiSTth? “j* accMcntal cerebral rupture, Purpose a sufficient dee-reeSf^ ^ng withm the skull, for which dipped in astringent fluids or^w ®°mPression |s employed by bandages metal, to such extent as not to °f eather’ or Iess suitably, of cerebral ruptures mav T symPtoms- Small congen tal with those artogSacciden™'if’ "°' 10 be 4«*ed and the reduction impossible the , ir t 16 ceiebral rupture be large, from external pressure In such'T H1° J1Ulst be supported and protected been proposed i, t - e. / ,- ? CaSeS, the Punctlire of the swe lino- has swelling. P^his^ractice^ri ^charge the fluid and lessen the bulk of the practised with success The Dunctur^ although it has been >r lancet, and after emptying- She tSh°"?d be,made with a fine needle entrance of air. P y 6,1 1 aPerture is to be closed to prevent the ^Uph,!S,?r^nd,BA"08 ? in UrctlERAKn ’• ft?Edition-vob “• ‘ecine, vob'iV'p ’«n Arc,livesU(:norale3 de Me- (<o «AsS0J,Hnps:;9;-‘'a\rMfrt-.’1834- p- 667. ol.iii. p. 409; n Saba tier,Medecme Operatoire, (d) <c°mmere. lit. None., an 1738, p. 412. (j) Sm.t.neuve, above cited. — Martini voftteati0n8 de t/hirurgie. Paris, 1771, (/) HoF.Ft.mo, Zwei Falle von Ilirnbrorl, • ; in I*roriep’s Notizcn, vol. xi. p. 222.102 TREATMENT OF CEREBRAL RUPTURE. Punctures have been made very frequently with successful rt'Sl^ (a) xt-irpat;on Tying the swelling (Schneider) (6), and incision with theJ*w . extirpaxmn, under incorrect diagnosis (Lallemand) (c), and the filing has sometimes brain (Stanley) (d) (2), have had fatal results. Opening the sweinng n first discovered the incorrectness of the diagnosis, and a 1 ^ 1F'. Xrrin(r ofSthe hole sure, has been employed till the brain has returned, and complete scarring 1 in the skull (e) has taken place. ,a transparent 1 [(1) Henry Earle mentions (/) the case of a dt s h^ h'-e“ed to the size ' fflohnlar tumour nt thp bank of the head, which in eig 1 cy [(1) Henry Earle mentions (/) the case ot a leniale c i ^"u^eased to the size globular tumour at the back of the head, which in «g ‘ ) s disease termed of a billiard-ball; it “appeared to be in its serum, in conse- spina bifida, and to consist of an expansion of dura , , three punctures quence of a deficiency of bony or other support at this part not with a common needle, and let out three drachms of flunk Two healed two days after, and pressure again discharged fl tken pricked days after, the punctures had healed, and the sac was ag n full it ^“n.n off with a very fine trocar-made needle and canula, and an ouncee°^ andat Five times after, at intervals of from to two four day P , thickened. For six- the last little fluid was evacuated, and the sac, having of gkin came away, teen days the case went on well, but then the sac Thlee davs after, the tumour and a Shin ichor discharged from the whole; Srfiith a lancet, was as large as ever, but opaque and very vascular, , tumour was again and half an ounce only of fluid discharged. Twice the swell- emptied with the lancet; but two days after theHas pu^1 b begant0 ulcerate, and ing inflamed, and on the day following, the flap o P small aperture, through in two days more extended down to the cavity of ■ Y w;tkout any symptoms which thiserum continued to ooze. Three days after sheS was punc- of inflammation or effusion on the brain. Adams ecret;on 0f fluid diminished, tured seven times, the skin gradually thickene , remained. The child but protrusion, probably a small portion of the cerebellum, remamea. recovered. „ , mentions a case (p) in Puncture is not, however, free from danger. ensued. Seiler (A) per- wliicli the large swelling was opened by Fried, , . , , yON Qraefe (t) formed this operation, and the child died comatose on ^ all50ff the escape of the punctured with a trochar and canula, and lef . flUskv colour, it was with- fluid; but the swelling becoming painful, and assuming a dusky co.our, I drawn, convulsions ensued, and the child died. . • c]flidren, in which Pitschaft (/<■) relates two cases of suppuia ing p application twice a day of some of the brain oozed out, and which were cured by the oak bark ; aud The cl,i"lre”’s of the brain, soon after the removal of portions ot the skuii Two of the boys died and one lived. J. h • ®\| c.—Of Prolapses. , 9rr a Prolapse (Prolapsus, Procidentia, Lat. ; lot fall, (a r’u; » Xu consists the difference between prolapse and rupture. (a, Feotuep’s Notizen, vol. xxxvi.p. 346.- p. 209. , (c) Uoykr, above cited. [c) rIchtbe’8 clunirg. Bibliothek., vol. iv. p. 566; and Stanley, above cited. (/) Above cited. _ to) Above cited, p. 336. (h) Rust's Chirurgie, vol. vui. p. E*i. . » (0 VON Geaefe und von W aethers Journft Vt ) m-KLANO und OSANNX Journal fdr I»4 tischer Ileilk. 1832, Oct., p. 06.103 PROLAPSE OF THE WOMB. 1266. The common causes of prolapse, are tearing or relaxation of the natural attachments, or of the openings, and diseased changes of the organ itself. 1267. As the prolapse of the brain, lungs, and bowels have been already considered with their respective wounds, there remains only to be here considered, prolapsus of the vagina, of the womb, and of the rectum. Chute de I.—OF PROLAPSE OF THE WOMB. (Prolapsus Uteri, Hi/steroptosis, Lat.; Vorfall der Gebarmutter, Germ. la Matrice, Fr.) Chop art, Dissert, de uteri prolapsu. Paris, 1722. Sturm, Dissert, de procidentia uteri. Erf., 1744. Sabatier, Sur les Deplacements de la Matrice et du Vagin; in Mem. de l’Acad. de Ihirurg., vol. iii. p. 361. Klinge, Commentatio de uteri procidentia usuque pessariorum in hoc morbo. Sotting., 1790. Foehr, Dissert, de procidentia uteri. Stuttg., 1793. Bachmann, Dissert, de prolapsu uteri. Duisb., 1794. Meissner, Die dislocationen der Gebarmutter und der Mutterscheide von Seiten ihrer Entstehung, ihrer Einflusses, und ihrer Behandlutig dargestellt. Leipz., 1821, vol. i. Cruveilhier, J., M.D., Anatomie Pathologique. Paris, 1828. fol. Clarke, Sir C. M., Bart., Observations on those Diseases of Females which are ittended by Discharges. Parti. Third Edit., 1831. Large 8vo. Botvin, Madame, et Duge’s, Maladies de l’Uterus. Paris, 1833; 2 vols. 8vo , and :ranslated by G. O. Hemming, M.D., as On the Diseases of the Uterus; with Notes. (2 vols. 8vo. London, 1834. Ramsbotham, F. H., M.D., Lectures on the Morbid Affections of the Puerperal and Pregnant States, the Organic Diseases of the Uterine System, &c.; in London Medical Gazette, vol. xvi. p. 529. 1834-5. Blundell, James, M.D., Observations on some of the more important Diseases of Aomen. Edited by Castle, T., M.D. London, 1837. 8vo. \Y ybrand Hendrikst, Descriptio historica atque critica variarum uteri prolansum turandi methodum. Berol., 1838 j with three copper-plates. Richter, A. G., Chirurgische Bibliothek, vol. iii. Ulsamer, M.D.; in Busch, von Graefe und and. Encyclopaedisches Worterbuch Article, Gebarmutter dislocationen, vol. xiii., p. 557. Besides the works on Diseases of Women by E. v. Siebold, Jorg, and others. 1268. Prolapse oj the Womb designates that displacement of the womb n which it descends more deeply into the vagina. According to its greater or less considerable descent, is it called complete or incomplete >rolapsc. It may also be accompanied with inversion of the womb. X KhIde-SCCnL0f thc womb>” sa-vs Sabatier, « has three different stages, to which 1 C. fven the names relaxation, descent, and fall or precipitation. When it is ’ % „‘n Us tlrst’ °ur evfn ln its second stage, the womb descends more or less in the “i f ’ a Pear-shaped tumour is felt, around which it is easy to carry the point of the >nger, and which is n erced at its ...f or tnt L' ' i* u. . a . ;— uivuuu h ca&y iu carry i • • p,,erced at its extremity by a transverse aperture. This tumour raXtX h'gher in relaxation, and lower in descent of the womb. Win ° r- ‘‘“"“'i ““'j- m ueseeui oi me womo. When, on the mn. letelV outdlSeuLhXarn-Vti,d -MtS th\rd and.last staBe’the womb is precipitated corn- ladder Jt- l- ries W'th it then the vagina, doubled upon itself, and a part of the ometimes^s'hik intoThi fTf T" of th° floatin8 bowels °f the bwerLTly nmstrously ltP’ rj.1362 )C e'S“C by render the tuu‘°ur eU^oDhiTTOrnnhih^rel^1.1*^I>KL1^S/0',SCrVatI?nS’ Th.ere arc varieties,” says p , elaxation, prolapsus, and procidentia. When the womb protrudes104 KINDS OF PROLAPSE beyoud the os externum, the disease is called procidentia ; when it remains at the outlet, prolapsus ; when it scarcely subsides below the brim, it then constitutes what is denomi- natedrelaxation.”' (p. 33.) It will be readily perceived that Blundell s .a our Author’s Complete Prolapse, and that his prolapsus and relaxation are included under Incomplete Prolapse.] , /T1 , rr. . . 1269. In Incomplete Prolapse of the Womb, (Prolapsus Uteri irnorrA pletus,) that organ descends more or less into; the vagina, and forms a pear-shaped swelling, which protruding only whilst the patient stands, can, on examination, be swept round by the finger, and at its lower pait a transverse cleft, the mouth of the womb, is felt (1). Or the womb, with its neck, descends between the external generative organs, in which case the vaqina is at the same time inverted, and descends with it (-)• The symptoms presented by incomplete prolapse are, dull but constant pain in the rump, loins, and flanks, a weight and pressure in the vagina, freciuent need of going to stool, often violent urgency, and difficult} in dis- charging the urine (3). All these symptoms increase if the patient standing loimf have exerted herself; and diminish or disappear entirely if she continue for a long time in the horizontal posture. _ If the neck of the womb have descended between the external generative part.-, the mm e ments of the body are hindered, and all great exertion rendered impossibM The irritation which under these circumstances affects the womb, and the other organs of the pelvic cavity, may be participated ui[by the bowels and the functions of the alimentary canal are often disturbed (4). A time of menstruation all these inconveniences increase; it becomes irre- gular; considerable flooding frequently occurs, and is accompanied with * XWteSsof»».* .perl-J- .he most obscure cud but a little way, an inch or condition he observes, often lead the woman, uterus." The symptoms attendig eo > attendant have any doubt of the es” r“lhere is a ,e- ^ to be known, in wmcn tne w t i.e observes, “ are worse at night, them, and called prolapsus uteri. 3 P patient having been about all day f because the womb comes down in the 1. §n the Mo, I should this observation may inj eec ‘ jj? ses ^ich are better characterized than pro- fy ” Cite symptoms? If examinations be thought necessary, they “are better lapsus utsvi y ^ P , ■. rnnminp‘ for iu the morning the womb is almost al^sys made in the evening than in the cons^deraXdescended, so that the displace- in its place, whereas, m the evening,. * “. ”“Cldded, first, the laxity of the ment is easily ini^uiper haTf, is much more capacious, so that, perhaps you might vagina, which, in its upp the lower part of it may be tenser; secondly** put a pullett s egg into it there, though tne lower ]» .f * introduce a catheter or from the pressure preventing the co,11l>k UcelAiackwards and downwards to a dragging it down and bending the urethn'obsenms The more vehement greater or less extent. Upon this‘ P° i ^ bladder, the more perfect docs the105 OF THE WOMB. endeavours, the diaphragm and abdominal muscles both being called into strong action, propel the uterus even lower; and in this manner the pressure before existing is in- . creased.” (p. 530.) (4) The irritation of the rectum is in either of the two stages'now under considera- tion merely attributable to the pressure of the womb, and not to any dragging. 1270. In Complete Prolapse, or Falling out of the Womb, (Prolapsus Uteri co/npletus,) the organ projects entirely out of the external parts of generation; the vagina is thereby drawn after it and doubled ; the organs connected with the womb are entirely dragged out of their place; the intestines sink into the sac produced by the inversion of the vagina, and therefore a void is always noticed in the lower part of the belly (1). All the symptoms mentioned in in complete prolapse here exist in a greater degree ; voidance of the urine is specially attended with considerable difficulty, and often entirely prevented (2) ; qualmishness, sickness, spasm in the belly, sometimes fainting, severe febrile symptoms often occur, especially when the prolapse has taken place suddenly. The swelling formed by prolapsed womb has an oblong, nearly cylin- drical form (3), terminates below in a narrower part, on which is found a transverse opening, (the mouth of the womb,) from whence during menstruation blood flows, and into which a probe may be introduced not more deeply than two inches (4). The base of the swelling is attached to the inner skin of the labia, by which the introduction of the fin°-ers, near the swelling, is prevented. The tumour has at first a reddish colour’ and is sensible; but by contact with the air, friction, and the moisture of the urine, and so on, it becomes inflamed ; a copious secretion of mucus takes place on its surface, and it becomes gradually insensible and overspread with a thick skin, like other parts (5). The inflammation may be severe, and run on to ulceration, and even to mortification (a). (1) In reference to the size of the prolapsed womb and vagina and the contents of the sac formed by the latter, Blundell observes“ I have seen several cases in which the vagina has been forming a large tumour lying forth between the limbs: this cyst containing not merely the womb, but in part the bladder, the small intestines, the ovaries and perhaps the rectum ; for where you have procidentia, it very rarely happens that the ma« °«n y descends, generally the other viscera come with it, in a larger or smaller /A i*** ,°f thlS klnd’ ,lf y°u are incompetent, you may mistake for polupus in- -ersio uteri, not to mention a large descent of the bladder only; but when you examine ™TZTiCie;irUWiU f,'CqUently discover’ first> that0» the surface of the t,™, ’ the T[fa of. the vagina are more or less conspicuous; secondly, that vou cm m nSin "Cfi etCr ‘“t0,the tU”’ Provided the bladder be come down - thirdly that astK-fn/ii finge^lat° the rectum, it may perhaps descend into the back of the cyst- imes f T- ’that at t le lower Part of the cyst- the os uteri may be found Sorne- mts the os uteri is so conspicuous that you can see it at the first o-l-mce • w n 6 th‘ &™°f'SM&S5 towek'JwIEa fy-S !le Jlas.scen one case of prolapse in the living subject in which the Zobsete^foat i lnt° thG mverted rjina’ but has never met with it liter death He ml hi n 68J . ln consequence of the peritoneal doubling or pouch between the nnn!„ , nav be mer C1,nplnucl1 shullowu'' than that between the laginaTl reTtum the ZoZ "teMincs whiKfuklZ the fr°nt .P°ucl! is 100 generally to Loire ircumstances the proHn e Z i may a large quantity> :l»d that under such ■ above cited,106 PROLAPSE OF THE WOMB. a cleft the front one formed by the womb itself, and the hind one by the pentoneal sac .1 violence of the symptoms abating, f ctrctoh From this circumstance it 'nuch lengthened^ b^ngm^ onger^p p inconvenie'nces attending this complaint ^“iKp^ftSSS ofTe «*r« in the ra9ina, than upon the dragging of the parts above. ’ (P-6J-) .th urine all(l frequently even retention are conse-. 1 it becomes of a globulai xorm. VP- ' / h „ decree of distension that its dragged down by the uterus, sometime 6 . ^ case 0f Watkins, who ^—H; lfpr?«f :sct»--si ;.vra: Cruveilhier states (c) that he has pOT1traetion and narrowing, which occurs gallon of that organ, accompanied with g™t eont. action ana narrov ^g, ^ (rf) ^ principally at the junction oP ° ^ further notices (e) that sometimes this elou- instance of the same kind. Crcvexi^ier turtner no Jn some ^stances he gallon and at other timesi the ^scen ,vithin the pelvis, the womb appeared to found the lengthening so great that when ^ cousiders that the disease occupy its proper position ; and “whening of the womb,” he commenced with the aversion i of 1thej fn |0nsequenW of which the Stf ^ “d simply the result of the sli^^^’SSnSi.owever, that although the local (5) Ramsbotiiam obser distressing when the womb protrudes without the labia inconvenience is much moie dist - o , . vet the system in the former case does than when it is still retained wit in jP > y | vaginal membrane is pro- not suffer so much andloSetimes in an extensive s& fs *«* “Tp"crs strss > c“t0 “cre“' 8 f“‘ portionate quantity of power is “vvagina remains long exposed to P « It seldom happens,” remarks Cearre, tlmttheJ^urLe. This ulceration the action of the air without ^ at once; small spots or patches iudame does not attack the who “ • . p„ch other but the whole surface is seldoni „,d utaato »d th~TSZ,STTthey toec the -*► covet ed by them. j:i„ heal unon the replacement of the prolapsed parts. as *** ■«“ iy °m ofSLo^i.82,.p»s .te Of the wo”V^°“hS one ; but the‘latter pathologist has found a stone in that ~ - - «f \ (a) Livr. xxvi. p. 3. 00 lbid- . „ (c) Livr. xvi. p.. (,/) Pathologic Chirurgicale. , I.ivr. xxvi. p. 2. If) bivr. xvi p. 2. 52 (?) Pathologic Chirurgicale. (h) Livr. xxvi. p. 3.107 CAUSES. yet this lias also happened. Cruveilhier relates (a) an instance in -which the rectum, tilated and filled with stool, was drawn forwards a little above its extremity, and formed i funnel-like lengthening. And Cloquet figures (6) a case in which, with great en- argement of die rectum, a considerable finger-like process descended into the cavity of he inverted vagina.'] 1271. The Causes of prolapse of the womb are predisposing and occasional. The former consist in relaxation of the natural attachments of te womb by copious, long-continued flow of mucus, by frequent leliveries, specially if they be very quick, or difficult, and require artificial aid (1). The occasional causes are severe exertion, by which he abdominal muscles are violently contracted, raising heavy weights, -iolent pressure in going to stool, long-continued standing, and so on. They cause the prolapse the sooner they operate after delivery; and herefore the disease occurs most commonly in women of the lower ■lasses who have often borne children (2). In those who have not borne •hildren it is but rarely observed, and then severe violence must always iperate. or the attachments of the womb be relaxed by great previous flow if mwcms (3). During pregnancy the womb cannot easily protrude, and a :onsiderable prolapse is itself removed by the ascent of the womb. Cases ai’e mentioned (c) in which prolapse has occurred during pregnancy, and even luring delivery (4) ; in such, violent straining must have operated, and he diameter of the pelvis have been of great size. Any diseased change of he womb which increases its weight, for instance, polyps and so on, or sellings which press upon it, may favour its prolapse (5). [(1) Among the causes of prolapse of the womb, Blundell notices especially, a large >elvis; and he observes, that “ this descent of the uterus, to which all females may be subjected, when the parts are relaxed, occurs certainly most frequently where the pelvis s capacious, and not only in the earlier but sometimes in the later periods of gestation.” (2) JIamsbotham observes, that “ in the higher circles, indeed, these (last) causes do lot obtain ; and in them, therefore, we more often find it consequent on miscarriage or ccompanying a broken state of health. All women are aware of the necessity of con- inement after delivery of a mature foetus, and consequently, if they have it in their 'ower, they willingly follow the course prescribed for them. But when they have ■assed an ovum of only two or three months’ age, as they have suffered but little pain nd less discharge, and as they had scarcely been sensible of any enlargement in their erson before the miscarriage commenced, they consider the occurrence of little import; aey thmk confinement to the horizontal posture for two or three days quite sufficient, nd feel a longer restraint irksome, and in spite of advice and remonstrances will busy lemselves about their domestic affairs, while still the uterus is much too bulky and eavy to be sustained by its natural supporters.” (p 530.) He also states that “ a violent fit of coughing occurring soon after labour or abortion, r an attack of sneezing, although the woman may still retain the recumbent posture, is eiy to produce prolapsus; and it may be occasioned by a rupture of the back part of le vagina and penneeum.” (p. 530.) 1 1 cmarkable instance of prolapse of the womb in a young woman (a virgin) was her Elliotson s care in St. Thomas’s Hospital, in 1828 (d). She stated that « whilst 1 ® f Pcrson 0,lt of a coach, she suddenly felt intense pain in her back, and the uterus ■ ended and protruded beyond the os externum; its descent was accompanied by pro- Iia8e- She was immediately placed in bed and a Surgeon sent for, who id cver lin W%nb- In/? mTth aft.erwards> feeling herself quite well, she married, id from rl ,ifir‘,rn°n b ) I 'f penod has suffered exceedingly from pain in her back, epeated descents of the uterus, accompanied with haemorrhage.” (pp. 733, 34). (i) plthololde Cldrumiri.10 p.86.—Ducreuxand Portal ; in Sabatier,above Iri . .. . ... cited, p. 368.-Journal de Medecine, vol. xliii. n (c) IIarvey, Excrcitationcs de Partu, p. 518.— ABRicius, Progr. de foetfis vivi extractione, utero olapso. Helmst., 1748.—Haller's llixput. r. sel., vol. iii. p. 434.—Saviaru, above cited, p. 366, vol. xlv. p. 232.— Mullner, Wahrneli- mung ciner snmmt dem Kinds ausgefallenen Uebiirmutter. Niirnberg, 1771. (d) Lancet, 1837-28, vol. ii.108 TREATMENT OF Samuel Cooper states (a) that he has seen two instances of prolapsed womb in maiden! I in the course of seven or eight years. Ramsbotham l.as known it twice in unmarried I girls about twenty years of age. And other cases are related by Mauriceau, Sav iakr, 1 M(4)RUllLSV(&) mentions, that he had observed “prolapse of the womb to be in [ one village as it were, endemic, in almost all the women who had borne one or two I children “ and when i s cause was subsequently ascertained ,t was found that the mid- 1 wife of the place, who had never been instructed, put all the women, as soon as hey had the slLhtest labour pain, into the labour-chair, which was her only- mode of assistance and let them go on and strain, till either the birth were effected or the woman | assistance, auu lei m 6 . cauge of proiapse }s not likely to occur in this couSry! !ur women beingV in the recumbent posture instead of on the labour-chair; bU(5^ D^generr^orq accompanied with increased size of the neighbouring organs within hebelly may! although rarely, cause prolapse of the womb, as dropsy, or hardening of he ovaries of which an interesting example is mentioned by Kuhn (c). . | Clarke observes that11 procidentia uteri and separation between the bones of t le I rtf whi^Se dllSd by the use’of a pessary, astringent injections sea the vcL[)in , . « , means above mentioned, the fresh I many ^similar cases, w hidi recovered, but that the “ progress of such cases towards health is always exceedingly slow. ] .. , 1 1272 The prognosis of prolapse of the womb depends on its degr<* and causes • it is, however, always doubtful in reference to a radical cure. The symptoms may be very dangerous, especially if the prolapse ha J °T27? Setreament consists in the return of the prolapsed womb, and in Zreturn is unaccompanied wit', difficulty; Madder and rectum, must be pushed back with tlm ffi-rs bladder and W u pelvis. In complete prolapse the S XnerLllv more difficult, especially in fa. persons and may be reduction is generally more difficult, especia..-., — a T impOh * nnninrif miict hp made, iu the horizontal position. irT ffie attempts T^pSement must be made in the horizontal position Ca;Stt ti „ j.ump raised ; warm bathing, bleeding, relaxing applications, a !! nf Sin" remedies, having been previously resorted to; and the the use o ,» be carefully made, so as not to increase the symptoms. TC+ho womb prolapse during pregnancy, it must be returned as quickly as ossffile PIf this cannot be done without efforts which may be dangerou possible {4.) i feared that in the increasing size of the woJXtactonlation’may be so prevented as to cause gangrene ; in winch * 01 (n) Surgical Dictionary, Seventh Edition, p. 1838. (ii) Cited at head ot this article. (c) Allgcm. Medic. Annalen, part ii. p. Altenburg, 1812. 841.PROLAPSE OF THE WOMB. 109 jase nothing remains but to diminish the size of the womb by breaking :he membranes, and drawing off the waters; or the womb remains lying in rout of the external genitals till the completion of the delivery, which in nany instances (which happens also in those prolapses occurring during lelivery) is effected merely by the natural powers, in some by artificial issistance, and even by cutting into the mouth of the womb (a). After lelivery the bulk of the womb diminishes, and the reduction is easy. [ (1) “ Ruysch forbids the reduction of the prolapsed womb when it is ulcerated ; •ut,” observes Sabatier, “ as this complication is only accidental, as it is only caused •y the continual rubbing to which the tumour is exposed, and by the acridity of the irine with which it is bedewed, no danger is to be feared from this practice. We 'erceive, on the contrary, that as that which causes and sets up the ulcers with which he vagina and womb are affected ceases by its reduction, the ulcers will heal of hemselves, when the womb is in its natural place ; and experience supports the truth f this reasoning.” (p. 365.) (2) “ When prolapse occurs during the course of pregnancy,” Sabatier says that its reduction must be attempted, which is sometimes tolerably easy, the pregnancy eing but little advanced, if the reduction be made at once, and care have been taken ■reviously to empty the bladder and rectum by the catheter and by clysters, and by utting the patient in a proper position. If, on the contrary, pregnancy be far dvanced, or if the prolapse have existed some time, the reduction becomes very difficult nd in this case it is more prudent to leave the part hanging out rather than to weary he mother and child by unavailing efforts. The womb, however, must not be left to self; it must be supported by proper bandages, and the patient even kept in bed to be ordinary termination of pregnancy. If the prolapse happen at the time of elivery, reduction becomes useless, and even dangerous. We must then occupv our- elves with the delivery of the child by gradually dilating the womb, which must be arefuily supported during the operation, which, though troublesome, presents no reater difficulty than when the womb is m its natural position. The extraction of the lacenta requires much care. It is easy to perceive this must not be left to nature and till less that the cord should be pulled in the usual way. The hand being introduced ',h°oh th °mb’ thk Plac<-nta must be detached according to Levret’s method After pp 369h370W)]IUb S'adUa y coutl'acts’ and the reduction is tolerably easy.” }2\5’ When the prolapse 1ms been returned, the ailment is only of slight xtent; and if it have not long existed, the patient requires to be kept several eeks on her back ; in passing her motions, she should avoid all straining- nd sitting up, and she should use local and general strengthening remedief volatile frmtures of the belly, astringent injections into the vaqina lengthening baths, especially tan baths, and so on (1). In this fesser eanx of the disease, sponges moistened with astringent remedies mav b introduced into the vagina (2). In complete prolapse the womb must .e 5„PS reta,”ed in “S P‘aCe b? “ ™«*a»ical contrivance; male parts, to thebdiy, and mihe^ack^bvmeans of^ °neht P Ik' “PP'md to the iy; and the water for this nnm™,. i?„ t __ a sPonSe> three or four times a iy; and the water for this purpose should be « & SponSe>,thl'ee or four time! ip spring. The water J /ff rendSedAffll^bolder bv thf tvT dra™ >*ng from a solid to a fluid addl 10n of »e matter u* i, • ^ ^ lcwuereu sun corner bv th< hWftVSlVtt oi Z°th CM p*» s mptoms are just beginning, and when thev ore i/gt CaSGS °f the disease> wh nch have been mentioned, they will be removed I,i.°..pr°Ceed fVom the causes the horizontal posture.” (p. <j5.) ■ a t • j , * v* Vr* / 7 3 vagLTLcomc vlty “ astrinSent applications to disposed to receive tho r1icr*in«Li ‘ ^ !ts diameter, and thus rendering it i-47 , oy Uinn p. 3/.->. Jalouset; in Journal de Medecine, vol. lxiiiPESSARIES AND 110 nature of the case may seem to require, will sometimes fulfil the intentions of the ]>rac- titiouer better than either employed alone; and so of all the other mineral astringents which have been in use.” p. 101. Of the vegetable astringents, cortex quercus cortex j qranati qallce, possess a great degree of astringency. | hey give out their' astrmgei.t j properties to water more readily by boiling than by infusion, and therefore the decoctions ■ of them are to be preferred ; they may be used alone, or some of the mmeral astnngOTts* may be dissolved in them. By these means are procured astringent fluids of such strength, that the vagina may be so much contracted as even to render the introduction of he pq>e of the female syringe difficult. Astringent injections should be thrown into the part. I twice or thrice a (hay, or oftener, and they should be used cold. (p. 1 )3.) Upon the subject of injection, Clarke states, that “ whenever ,t is found necessary to inject fluids into the vagina, and important that they should remain there for any time, the operation should be'performed when the woman is in a recumbent position ; and if f n nillow is nreviouslv placed under the hips, in order to raise them a little, the fluid I will be lessPlikely to escape. The syringe to be employed should be capable of hold mg as much fluid as will fill the vagina.” He objects to the mode in which the holes are generally made in the syringe, by which either the fluid passes out too quickly, or lttle or none reaches the upper part of the vagina, “ but if the holes are all placed at the extremity of the pipe, the injection will be thrown to the upper part of the vagina, and will bp sure of return by the sides.” (p. 95-7.) . , I “ When ulceration has attacked the vagina, in consequence of exposure to air andM pressure,” Clarke recommends that “ a small quantity of some warm ointment be ap- U plied to the parts affected by it, such as the following R bah. Peruv. 3ij., ling. cetacaM 3JV^ CLARKE3objeets to the use of sponge, as “ the worst material which can be em- jj ployed for pessaries; it is porous, and will very quickly imbibe the moisture of he ; P L TW niwc of snou o-e must be large, compared with the size of the vagina, or lta ^i be uLlesPs and ifh ifla'ge, the vagina (the dilated state of which was one of the causes of the disease) will be still further dilated; and although whilst the spon^e is • warm the uterus will rest upon it, and the symptoms may be relieved, yet when It ,s • removed the disease will return m an increased degree, (p. n“;)J 1276. Pessaries, (Mutter krcinze, Germ.; Pessaire, Fr.,) in referenced)* their form and substance, are very various ; they are oval, round globular. . cylindrical, furnished with a stem, and so on ; they are made of wood, or r cork, caoutchouc, and covered with wax or varnish (a). 1977 The oval pessary, made of cork overspread with wax, and i vided iii the middle with an opening not too large, is the most serviceable. It keeps its place whilst the two ends of the oval thrust against the sides of ,evTginaPand pelvis. It is to be applied in the Hlowmgvtay Tte patient, her rectum and bladder having been previous y emptied, lies on « Per back with her rump raised, her thighs apart, and bent towards thjl belly, the labia are to be separated with two fingers of the left hand, anjj with the right hand the pessary, held flat, is to be thrust so high mt° the ranina, that the mouth of the womb may meet its aperture when it » brought horizontal, and its two ends jut on both sides against the pelvwM bones The patient must remain in the horizontal posture some hour# after the introduction of the pessary to ascertain if it still keep ita> P™!* nlnce A larger pessary must be cliosen if the womb again prolaps , nJDH a smaller onefif that introduced cause too much presure. At the same time the strengthening remedies, already mentioned, (par ^75,) must sed If pre-nancy occur, the pessary should be removed about the tM* t„rth month. The patient must then keep herself quiet, avoid all exertion, and, in delivery, all pressure and excitement of labour-pains £ (ns iiunold, Dissert dePessaire.. Mnrb., 1779. —iwiRNSTBiN, Systemati»clie IJaretPllur^g rachouc. l’jiris, 1833.—ZiMMBnM,NN, l-rl7,h- rungen und Mittheilungen bewalirter Acret Wundai'rzte ncurer Zoit fiber Prolapsus un‘ - . cinema I'tcri nebst einer grfindlichen UelrucIITO der Pessarien. Leiptig, 1834. fob N"-. M —Gemeimsame Zeitachnft tiir die Geburt* ■" vol. vi. pt. I. ii.SUPPORTING BANDAGES. Ill [When the prolapse is so great that the globular pessary, which Clarke thinks is the best, will not be retained, neither can be kept in the vagina by any common bandage, he recommends “ a pessary to be chosen of the size which the case requires, and a small i slip of brass to be attached to it by its two ends, leaving a space between the instrument and the centre of this piece of brass; a belt of leather, long enough to go round the patient's body, is also to be prepared; to the centre of which behind, a brass wire, as thick as a common quill, is to be attached by a screw. This wire is now to be properly bent, and the pessary being introduced into the vagina, the wire is to be passed between the pessary and the piece of brass attached to it; and being brought up between the thighs, it is to be attached to the fore part of the circular strap. The reduced parts are by this i means supported by a pessary, and this is kept in its place by the unyielding piece of imetal.” (p. 127.)] 1278. The use of the pessary is frequently accompanied with much inconvenience, as it causes pain, inflammation, stinking discharge, suppu- ration, and even degeneration of the generative organs; in many cases it cannot be worn, and in many the prolapse cannot be kept up for any time(l). In such cases the only help consists in an organic narrowing of the vagina with or without excision of its walls, by means of the suture, Elijthroraphy, (Hall, Berard,) Colpodesmoraphy, (Bellini,) or by junction of the labia by means of the suture, Episioraphy, (Fricice,) or by the introduction of a ring (2). [(1) The use of pessaries has of late years gone much out of fashion, on account of the many inconveniences which they cause; and in their stead many of our' leading accoucheurs prefer the use of a modified X bandage upon the belly and perinccum. Among these, Dr. Hull’s utero-abdominal supporter is perhaps the most known and commonly used in this country ; and I have seen it employed very successfully several times in my own hospital patients, for whom it has been prescribed by our obstetric physicians. It does not appear certain that Hull was the real inventor of this bandage; at least, one very similar to it had been long previously made by Sheldrake of Lei- cester Square, and another and more simple had been invented many years before by King, a Surgeon at Clifton. I am not aware, however, that any good explanation of the way in which such bandages act had been given, till Hull brought out his appa- ratus. He considers “ Prolapsus Uteri, not as a displacement of the womb merely, but as a loss of that perfect equilibrium between the upper and lower portions of the abdomen which is essential to the preservation of the relative situations of the viscera it contains, and also a dislocation of the uterus and bladder; and in some cases as especially dependent upon a pouch-like relaxation of the whole perinteal region. His method of cure consists in giving the weakened and relaxed portions of the muscular walls of the abdomen adequate mechanical support, which directly replaces the viscera and gives back to the weakened walls their lost tone ” (a). The apparatus consists of a broad soft elastic pad, covering the whole hypogastric region, upon the middle of which the front end of a spring, like that of a common truss, acts, and from the hind end a strap passes round the opposite side of the body, and astens on the pad. “ The effect of this pad is to give the weakened lower portion of .he abdominal muscles a congenial support, which, at the same time that it diminishes . leir labour, stimulates them by the well-known power of mechanical pressure upon iiiscular tissue, to a permanent renewal of their vigour. It reduces the distended hupo- tastnum, aids the upward forces of the belly, and by its direction, upwards and l/ack- brS’’’ ‘tw re‘,UVeS tie,pelvlC mscera from the unnatural pressure of the downward orces I hat portion of the apparatus above described, is not always “ competent to imes loslim sf 11 CT-S. °f th,s species ?f uterine displacement; the perinccum some- I JS h ',)f US n?uscular and o'-gu'uc contractility, as not to resume its . ensions and situation, even when the downward forces are stayed by the PDaSs'do??; n ^SCS,°f this charactur, although the abdominal support of the Kid flrSl 7* man>: 0f the Stressing sensations of the patient, yet ne distended floor of the pelvis remains a cul-de-sac for the reception of the viscera, (a) This extract. I have taken from “ A brief Vccoun t of the application and uses 0r the CJtero- oslominal Supporter, for relief and cure of Pro- i *T * *«ici uiu cure oi rro 7,7 '" i'n; Pr«lnp*tu Uteri, patented by A t; 117LT,. M II ' T oi./L.m s « i... _ »t uHwjniea uy a. It. 1 ULT,y M.I). London.^ Published by Weiss, of the Strand, who is agent for these bandages. The original pamphlet, published in America about ten years ago, I have in vain endeavoured to pro- cure.—J. F. S.112 OPERATIONS FOR whenever that apparatus is removed for a length of time. To obviate this liability as Tlso to aive tone to the 7maim by the stimulus of mechanical pressure, thereby to diminish its calibre and restore it to its natural situation, the doctor applies agains the wards, is a good substitute for the intervagmal pessaries. Sheldiiake’s bandage is very similar to Hull s, but without the sp ing. KLondaee is very simple, and I am informed very efficient, it is, in tact, a r mrnmmmmm when this peeled off there was not anyappearance of means of a after he “ used the fuming nitric acid, brushing it over a large |vhk.|)5followed the eamel’s-hair pencil. The pain it occasioned was greater than tn WM V-'r7De^9ffThed^";o^te™bM not at first appear to be moeh checked haaiap di.Msho, | • I ofi“ ■w“k- (PP1 "79 'According to IIal.. (4), after the womb has been forced down *,I, S'i efforts as much as possible, two parallel cuts should), be made alone the whole length of thetrotfitw, from the neok of the womb w Slntranef, through the mucous membrane, which is to be separate, so tLrln interspace of two and a half inches is laid bare between lie woYneisioi A stitch is then to be put in through boll, edges of the wound n“heneek of the womb, the womb itself to he returned, and! the threads tied firmly together. Several ligatures may m the sam Tjj be gradually applied (1)* ,.fi a < T ,,s i,ns successfully practised Hall’s method, which he lias only modih Iiieland_( ) ... more certainly the bladder and rectum, by making th with the viet | r,arallel hut converging at their extremities, by removing - ihefiaps above" and below,3 and applying all the sutures before returning the womb. („) London Medical Gazette, New Series, 1838- C» tendon Medical Gazette, vol. iz. p. » 39, vol. ii. (c) Dublin Journal, vol («0 1830.; , vi. p. d83. 18.15.PROLAPSE OF THE WOMB. 113 Felpeau and Berard have performed Ireland’s modified operation, but they also removed a third slip from the front of the vagina («). [It has been a dispute with whom this operation originated. Velpeau, in his Clinical jecture just cited, says, that “ the first idea of this operation is due to Gerardin, who '.escribed it in a memoir which he presented to the Socicte de Me'decine de Metz ou de sTancy, which however was never published. He proposed to contract the vagina, and f necessary even to obliterate it, in women in whom the catamenia had ceased. He ound many opponents to his ideas, -which were rejected.” (p. 276.) Velpeau does not aention in what manner it was proposed to effect the contraction of the vagina, neither oes Gerardin himself in his letter to the Academie (&), in which he says, that • before 1823 he had proved that the pessary might be replaced by and the cure of pro- ipsed womb radically effected by a surgical operation.” It is therefore just possible, aough not very probable, that Marshall Hall might have been aware of Gerardin’s nggestion before he proposed and had his operation performed by Hemming (c) in the utumn of 1831.—j. f. s. (1) Dieffenbach (d) made use of the actual cautery for the cure of prolapsed womb ; ut not being satisfied with it, has laid it aside. Lawrie of Glasgow, however, men- ons (e) the case of a girl of eighteen, who had prolapsed womb suddenly produced y carrying a heavy tub ; nitrate of silver was freely applied, astringent injections and ther remedies used, and strips of the mucous membrane dissected off the sides and ack of the vagina, but without benefit. He then, having dilated with Weiss’s speculum, pplied the actual cautery on either side of the vagina, nearly as high as the womb, 'he operation was very painful, the external parts became cedematous, she had retention f urine, some pain in the belly, and hysterical symptoms, which readily yielded to lild treatment. She was kept in the recumbent posture for six weeks ; and left the ospital nine weeks after the operation, without the least tendency to the renewal of rolapse ; but having a circular contraction of the vagina, just below the womb. Nine lonths after, the protrusion recurred, after long standing and unwonted exercise. The ctual cautery was again applied, the same symptoms produced, but subsided, after one deeding, aperients, fomentations, &e. She was kept in bed for nine months: then ■lowed to get up, wearing a compress in the nmnm/m and a t i...„,.,i —„ IOPERATIONS FOR PROLAPSE OF WOMB. 114 four stitches, and the needle carried in the same way downwards, to con , -j plete the horse-shoe. The ends of the threads are now to be draw 1 together, so as to fold up the prolapse, and then fastened with a loo knot. The after-treatment consists in rest, blood-letting, cold fomentation r< and diet. After two or three days, the threads may be drawn tighter. j portion of the mucous membrane of the vagina separates after ten days,- j scar forms in the vagina, and prolapse never recurs. 1281. Episioraphy is performed, according to Fricke (a), in the folio’ I ing manner:—After the patient has been properly placed, the Surge* g takes hold of one labium with one hand, thrusts in a pointed bistou t about two fingers from the upper commissure, and a full finger s bread J j from the edge of the labium, and carries it down to the franulum, whe«- i he brings it out again in a small curve, so that a portion of the labium a finger’s breadth width is separated, and then the upper still attached pt ! , of this portion of skin is to be completely cut through in an oblique dim ii tion. The same proceeding is to be adopted with the other side, and: carried on to the frcenulum that a part of the latter is removed, and bo cuts brought together at an angle, at a finger’s breadth from the frcenulu After the bleeding from the spouting arteries has been stopped by torsic u and from the little vessels by cold water, both edges of the wound am / be brought together with from ten to twelve stitches. It should be pp .. viously considered whether the prolapse can be kept up merely by qu position or not; and in the latter case, previous to putting in the stitch! ■ a piece of oiled sponge, upon which a thread is attached, should be inti duced into the vagina. The patient, after the operation, is to be laid her side, with the rump somewhat raised, and the knees tied togetb; ;-j [. Applications of cold water or lead wash should be made to the worn, and the urine drawn off by the catheter, for the first few days. Thouu however, no perfect union ensue, yet usually the prolapse is partially kk ^ up. The vaginal mucus and the menstrual blood escape, and coitus cam. effected by the opening remaining at the upper part. Should pregna* ensue, the adhesion may be divided, or cuts on the sides made at the ti > of delivery (1). (1) Ivock (h) uses the quill-stitcli in episioraphy. Plath (c) gives the account of a birth after episioraphy. A bridge still existed* delivery the lower opening dilated, and was still further enlarged by three cuts od; sides. The result was completely satisfactory. . . m^Tvrvner-s nf Mnrvland ( d\ has Derformed successfully the operation of episiort115 PROLAPSE WITH INVERSION OF WOMB. ve stitches. A compress of lint, and a f bandage were applied, and the parts kept ijjol with cold water. The sponge which had been introduced to keep up the womb 111 adhesion'had taken place, was generally removed about the fifth or sixth day; and , ie sutures were taken out, as the parts seemed to have united.] 1282. For the purpose of holding the labia together, and thereby pre- tenting prolapse, a hinge ring, about the size of a large earring, should je used ; it is to be drawn through the lower part of both labia and closed, .) that it may lie in the region of the frcmulum (a). i 1283. An old prolapse oftentimes cannot be returned without causing tiixiety, pain in the belly, costiveness, and other symptoms (b). In this jise, the womb must be supported with a bandage, and care must be taken t>r the proper emptying of the bladder and rectum (1). If the completely golapsed womb be so changed by disease, as for example, by schirrus, t iat its removal is indicated, this must be effected by the ligature (2) or incision; the latter at least has been done successfully, by Langen- ,eck(c) (3). [(O When, in consequence of the altered position of the bladder often attending pro- pse of the womb, the urine cannot be voided, and it becomes necessary to introduce catheter, the altered direction of the urethra must not be forgotten ; and according to e directions of Cruveilbiee, the instrument must be directed downwards and .ckwards wnh its concavity downwards, and thus it “first enters the displaced .rt of the bladder and is afterwards raised by a lever-like movement into that portion it still remaining in its natural situation” (d). 3,),ThC rerJ1"'Tal of a prolapsed schirrous womb was efFected with the ligature by frt '™ “d MaRJOL1n i ^ut the woman died from some cause independent of the j • TELHIRR’. ^ mentions this case (e), objects to the treatment as bein- compamed with great risk of including a portion of the bladder in the ligature He T^ndh \n Preference, cutting through the back of the vagina, into ^doubling of ntoneum between it and the rectum, then drawing the womb through the aperture an taching it from its cellular connexions with the bladder. S P wn semrateTfrom^^6^11011’the-Tmb’ after cuttinS across the vagina, was drawn imall portion of its fund^'^ II. OF PROLAPSE OF THE WOMB WITH INVERSION rrolapsus ^^minverdone, Lat.; Vorfalle der Gebdrmutter mit Umstulpuna [ Germ.; Chute et Renversement cle la Matrice, Fr.) 1 ’ ■ |5abatier, above cited, p. 375. •Sto"Mi!tate?,1’l8U4''°n ^ UmkehrU”g 0der eigentlichen, in version der ' Ierzog, E. B., Dissert, de inversione uteri. Wirceb., 1817. ' SrwS ^toi^nof^^cce8sfMee^rnatt'0mS’f^nUSeS’ and Treatment of Inversio the disease. London, 1818. P °f that orSan (lul'ing the chronic stage •he Ne Series, ^p.’ 285^1 sih.^vo5. “ Tran8’ «Uhe*oSiigedloZ0f7t1’7yndthe'TTh withI™™on is under- I’ down ?f the {liZw-l T'h i"‘° its ond eve"protrusion at b 10-M, (rf) Livr. xxvi. p. 2. (O Livr. xvi. p. 4.116 PROLAPSE WITH INVERSION It is, therefore, distinguished as incomplete and complete inversion ; in the < j former case the fundus of the womb protrudes more or less through its - 1 mouth, and forms a semicircular swelling, which is encompassed by the* j mouth of the womb ; in the latter the whole womb is protruded, from its - j fundus to its neck, through its mouth, and lies in front of the external. ( generative parts in shape of a pear-formed swelling. [Crosse observes :—“Inversion of the uterus is either partial or total; the latter.! j can exist only in one degree, and admits of no subdivisions. Partial inversion, on the t contrary, comprises very many degrees; and there are both physiological and practical., j reasons for noticing and describing three, by way of classification ; namely, depression, j introversion, and perversion. Depression, the first division and slightest degree of partial inversion, is present. I when any portion of the entire thickness of the walls of the uterus becomes convex ■ j towards its cavity or interior, without going to the extent of being invaginated, or j brought within the grasp of the rest of the uterus, supposing it to contract by the action j of its muscular coats. The interior convexity is answered by a concavity of the same i extent on the exterior surface of the womb. The posterior, lateral, or even perhaps { the anterior part of the body of the organ, may be thus displaced after parturition: i but usually the fund us is the part affected. * * * The palpable evidence of this degree 1 of inversion is obtained by examination through the parietes of the abdomen, or by the ( hand in ulero meeting with a convexity of more or less firmness according to tin . atonic or contracted state of the part, and giving the idea of a placenta still remaining ■ after the entire placenta has been removed. If the placenta be still adherent, it I attachment is to the inverted portion, and any attempt to remove it by traction wii increase the inversion. . W Introversion is when so great a part of the fundus is displaced, as that it comes withn the grasp of the portion of the uterus, into which it is received. The greatest degree of this displacement consists in the fundus and continuous part of the body of th uterus being received into the remainder of its body and cervix, the convexity of th- fundus being palpable at the os tincce. The inverted portion is in a situation to b resisted, supported, compressed, and otherwise acted upon, by the uninverted, by whic it is always surrounded. In proportion to the degree of introversion is the depth an. extent of the peritoneal pouch opening towards the abdomen. The uterine ligaments are i part drawn into this pouch, and the ovaria approximate, the marginal circle correspond^ to the angle of inflexion. On examining above the pubes, the circular margin of tl uterus can be felt forming the boundary of the inversion, and the uterus and part of tl : body of the organ are wanting; in a thin patient, and where the abdominal parietes sir relaxed and yielding, the fingers of the accoucheur may even enter the orifice of tl t peritoneal pouch, pressing those parietes before them. If the placenta be still attache,: it is felt at the os tinea, or in the cavity of the uterus, and judged to be of unusual siz' if partially detached it allows of great hemorrhage, which may cease on its removH if the inverted fundus contract, and be felt firm to the touch; but haemorrhage co tinues if the inverted mass be soft, indicating that it is still in a state of inertia. j Perversion is when more or less of the inverted portion of the uterus projects through t • os tinea; in its greatest degree the whole body of the uterus as well as the fundus, pass inverted through the os, the cervix only remaining in situ, encircling the contiguo or highest part of the inverted portion, all the rest being uncompressed and uusupport. by the uterus. The peritoneal pouch is lengthened, and the proper uterine cavity near obliterated. Where “ the inverted part is surrounded by the cervix, it may constrict producing congestion and even strangulation in all the rest of the inverted organ beW The angle of inflexion (so first named by Radford of Manchester) is always bel< the middle of the body of the uterus. In considering the successive steps of the inverting process, we trace the descem the fundus through the uterine cavity until it projects at the os, fills the rapt no. * reaches the external labia ; and the process may go on in the same direction to its co pletion, the inverted fundus and even body of the uterus prolapsing externally, until encircling cervix descends, under expulsive efforts, to a level with the labia, and bec» apparent under ocular examination. But if the labia resist sufficiently the row descent of the fundus, and part of the body of the uterus remains still umnverteO, n not the process be carried to its completion by ascent of the cervix i No author hinted at this view of the subject, and yet its correctness must be admitted, ni orfl explain the well-established fact, that where the inverted fundus and body of the wOF THE WOMB. 117 re still in the vagina, the cervix is felt high above the pubes, even near to the navel ometimes taking the situation the fundus would normally occupy, the vagina being roportionately stretched and carried upwards,—changes which can only be explained y supposing that, at a certain stage, the inversion ceased to progress by descent of the ■nidus, and was continued and completed by ascent of the cervix. If the placenta be ill adhering, it precedes the fundus, is felt in the vagina, or observed at the external ibia, giving the attendant an impression of its being firmer than usual, and of greater ze. * * * If the placenta be already away, a convex tumour occupies the vagina, of greater or less size, according to the proportion of the body of the organ inverted, aving a soft, slightly nodulated surface, bleeding easily under the touch, its highest art encircled by the cervix. If the cervix only remain uninverted, the fundus and ady of the uterus may be so large as to fill the bony pelvis, distend the vagina and aider it difficult, if not impracticable for the accoucheur to reach the cervix; but as 'ten as the inverted mass prolapses at the vulva, the encircling cervix can be felt. * * * xamination above the pubes may enable the accoucheur to detect the orifice leading 'the peritoneal pouch, formed by the inverted fundus and body of the uterus, or in the ise of external prolapse at the vulva, to convince himself of the absence of the organ om the abdomen, (p. 283-99.) 6 In all degrees of inversion,” says Crosse, “ there is a concavity or pouch lined ith peritoneum, and open toward the general peritoneal cavity. In simple depres- on the intestines rest in the concavity; and as the pouch or cul-de-sac increases the testmes may, if the opening into it be large, occupy 'this pouch, so that in total version, with prolapse, they may actually descend beyond the external labia, still sting m the peritoneal bag, which the inversion has occasioned.” (p. 308.)] 1285. The inversion of the womb occurs either suddenly or gradually ; ie former is possible only during delivery, when it quickly follows if the oman be in the upright posture, and strain very violently at the moment hen the child is forced out; or it may occur from pulling at the navel- ring from too short or coiled up navel-string, and so much the more as .e pelvis is wide (1). The inversion may be produced gradually bv polypous growths at the fundus of the womb (2), by a slight in bending of e fundus, which remains after previous delivery, and gradually increases • which case there is frpnprallv nnlir • ... Zr>\ J which case there is generally only imperfect inversion (3). (1) According to Hachmann (a), there may be spontaneous inversion dependent on isnn probably from deficient contraction of the womb, analogous to partial contraction ■uch is observed m stricture of the womb, in which case, forinstance the Xefand eless /unrfas sinks inwards, is grasped by the contracting body, and descends com tely down to the mouth of the womb. e y’ u uescerms com- the wP^S'SnfP.0int7CLARKf °^seres “Itis said that inversion may be produced of a P°tyPfs attached to the fundus of the uterus. This cause mav of t Wi[h fierrstUram ^ocaen the subjects of this disease; but it wm be rarely SsSSlSSippSSalS 1st the volvvus of o-i-PQt riJL;*.. _te, exPulsi0IU to cause uterine inversion, 1st thepolypus h expulsion, to cause uterine inversion, iot unfrequently followed in^t. lntT f br°\d ba?,s’ and particularly the fibrous, 321.) by the disPlacemcnt question.” t first so partial,” says Crosse “^thaf^the ^ 7anous. as fr°m any other cause. ratur. Nov., Dec., 1831, p. 352.' 8everandenmg des Uterus ; in Hamb. Magazin der AusliindPROLAPSE WITH INVERSION 118 in situ, or is itself inverted, with part of the vagina. A further stage remains, in which the uterine inversion is total, and prolapses externally, bringing with it the vagina, also inverted, (p. 331.) If the polypus be attached to any part of the fundus, at the . terminating opening of either of the Fallopian tubes, or in the interspace between those >- openings, it may determine a partial and limited inversion, whilst still remaining . wholly or chiefly within the uterus. The symptoms are the same as a polypus pro- 1; duces, without inversion, and cannot be considered characteristic, although generally more severe, such as uneasiness in the uterine region, forcing pains, leucorrlieea, and menorrhagia.” (p. 324.) (3) “ In addition to what has been already stated, we may,” says Crosse, “ enume- q rate coagulated blood accumulated in the uterus, and an hydatidous growth, or mole, . occupying its cavity, each of which has been known to cause uterine inversion.” (p. 338.) Of the majority of the cases referred to the former cause, Crosse has consider- • able doubt. “ Some,’’ he says, “ are unsatisfactory, others evidently stated in error, - the epoch of the inversion having manifested itself to the unsuspecting or uninstructed4 observer, (perhaps some seven or ten days after delivery,) not being the commencement H of the displacement, which was coincident with the termination of' the labour. With Ij more correctness may we regard distension of the uterus from blood as a cause of the relapse of inversion.” (p. 339.) As to the cases uncomplicated with pregnancy, “ where blood was the primary cause of enlargement of the uterine cavity,” he says, - “ I cannot quote any so objectionable as the case related by Mr. Watkinsok (a), in which a woman of fifty years of age had inversion take place under protracted and very severe menorrhagia, in which, as Watkinson supposed, in a relaxed state of the os uteri, and perhaps of the uterus itself, owing to protracted haemorrhage, the organ a became inverted on the expulsion of coagula. At the expiration of four or five years- the inverted womb hung half way down towards the knees, with a neck formed by the inverted vagina, about the size of one’s wrist. The patient was reduced to imminent danger of life by sloughing and abscess, when the uterus was removed by incision below • a ligature placed on the vagina with a fatal result. Of inversion following the ex pul-, sion of hydatidous masses, he mentions the case recited by Dr. Thatcher, of Edin-r burgh, in his lectures, in which the woman acknowledged that she had pulled away s protruding mass, which consisted of an immense accumulation of hydatids, firmly! cemented by nearly cartilaginous bands, and had thus produced the same result as from': 1 injudiciously pulling the umbilical cord for the extraction of the placenta after deli-; i very. There was “ every diagnostic mark of the inverted uterus, with the os uteri clear, and defined, surrounding its upper base.” Attempts to return it were fruitless, and “ at midnight the uterus was close down on the os externum. Next morning it was found fully protruded at the vulva, in shape and size like the largest caoutchouc bottler > for injection.” It could not be returned, and therefore, on the third day “ a ligature of silver wire was applied close to the os uteri, with the double canula as for polypus. The ordinary means for supporting strength and preserving cleanliness were used. On the third day from the application of the ligature separation was nearly effected, and Art I slightly remanent portion was divided with the scalpel.” (p. 340-42.)] 1286. The quick-formed inversion of the womb is commonly accom- panied with severe pain, bleeding, inflammation, and swelling of the prolapsed part, and if it be complete, with sickness, fainting (1), convul- i sions, depressed powers, small and scarcely distinguishable pulse, and with danger of mortification and death ; in a complete inversion, however, all the symptoms may be absent (Hachmann.) The slowly forming inversiot of the womb prevents the discharge of the urine and stools, causes irregullfi j menstruation, bleeding, inflammation of the womb and neighbouring i>arts pain in the belly, hsemorrhoidal inconveniences, whites, hardening, exco- riation and ulcers of the womb (2), bad nourishment, dropsical swelling** d' hectic fever, and so on. (Yl) Upon these symptoms Daii.liez (6) makes the following interesting observe I t-10n A loop of intestine may follow the fundus of the womb, insinuate itself »n” j cavity, of which the entrance is at first very large, become strangulated, as lias nee observed after bursting of the womb, and give rise to new symptoms, which ww I (a) London Medicnland Physical Journal, vol. vii p. 435. (*>) These.119 OF TIIK WOMB. hitherto been merely regarded as sympathetic. The intestinal pains, the swelling of the belly, the sickness, vomitings, hiccough, so frequently attributed to reversion of the womb, may actually depend in some women only on this strangulation.” (p. 80.) ) (2) “Whilst the inverted uterus remains in the vagina, the discharge (excepting at the periods of menstruation) will be of a mucous kind,” observes Clarke; “but if the uterus falls lower, so as to protrude beyond the external parts, the exposure of that surface, which, in a natural state, lined the cavity, to air, as well as to occasional injuries, may induce inflammation and ulceration over a part, or the whole of its surface ; and the mucous discharge may be changed to one of a purulent kind, so considerable in quantity as to debilitate the constitution, and to cause all the common symptoms of weakness. If there are any ulcerations upon the surface of the upper part of the tumour, formed by the inversion of the vagina, they will be circumscribed, and rarely cover its whole surface.” (p. 155.)] 1287. Inversion is distinguished from prolapse of the womb by the pear-shaped swelling, broad below, on which no opening is found (par. 1269.) The distinction from a polyp of the womb is always difficult, and depends^ on the following circumstances ; in the complete inversion, the form of the swelling resembles indeed that of the polyp, but it is enclosed at the upper part by a fold, and neither the finger nor a probe can be passed up between the swelling and this fold, as it can in polyp ; the completely inverted womb has also at its upper part, from being hollow, a soft and yielding character. But this distinction is especially difficult in an incomplete and slowly produced inversion. When the inverted womb still lies in the vagina, it is broader above than below, but the polyp has the directly contrary form ; the swelling of the prolapsed womb has a more definite feel than the polyp, which last is more movable and its surface smoother than that of the prolapsed womb. The simple inbending of the womb may in some degree be felt through the skin of the belly, lhe diagnosis is considerably assisted by the origin of the ailment after previous delivery. But all these circumstances may, in certain cases, Si T mi-? r6SUltS J, f0r the forra of PolYPS ^ well as their sensi- lty and mobility varies ; both swellings may present a smooth or uneven surface; the polyp may appear soon after birth ; the examination of the beily in stout persons gives no result. It seems to deserve particular attention that the polyp, when it has once penetrated the mouth of the ivomb, grows remarkably quick. 1288. The first indication, in inverted womb, is to return it to its place is soon as possible, because otherwise by the quickly ensuing inflammation ind swelling, its replacement is difficult and impossible. If the inversion ,vomhCOmPiieteiLand ueCent’ k is sufficient t0 thrust UP the bottom of the nil t°?n- y tbrougb lts mouth, with the fingers of the right or left hand w-cted m a conical form. If the inversion be complete, if f have land "and whT^0”^01 dayS’ thefundus must be grasped with the whole InS y C0TPrf-ed’ should be Pushed UP in the axis of the -e nasswl 1 f ! cases the object may perhaps be attained, if two fingers jtya£d ffienfi I1® Pr0truded>^ °f 1the womb into its mouth, rards^th! bottom^"^ng-that part next the mouth and after’ ,! ™X0n] of'the womb- After the reduction is completed the he beHy^v^i^colV *i’1’ by 8lrau,^aneous rubbing and sprinkling '’A l,ave perfectly contracted, and the after-birth be ru™ retad°m: °ff (1 >1 Quiet “ «» ™pi„e posture with eeping the returned womb hpCerl)'ifthTrlT'’ ,faVOUraWe “> rom the inflammation and swelling if120 TREATMENT OF PROLAPSE WITH dancerous symptoms, especially of convulsions, it cannot bo undertaken, been seen to return by the ensuing contraction (a) >en seen to return vy me ' ' , . .. w . (1) If the placenta rem““ thTwduction together with the removal of the flucMa “ V to attempt its Sd«lo«P't^t“er “1“tlS of the place.ta, and only » remove i. when tt adhere. . lljlfe^ronioinversion, it because it has lost its PO^er of con ractihty Lo^nect ^ rf sp()nge> (J5rg,) of ; •»«»«• f»tUe(L6“F,-“'- ST“.-e where the «,«r«s has been to *• | latter cavity having undergone n° c]'a“S ’ ! d than tbe injection of some very able,” says Clarke, “to recommend^ Some restraint will thus ■ mild astringent fluid three or foul,^eS^ and the parts will be kept clean by it. ?esSaT«.d5sr.‘h“S;-L being alrlaiy so completely filled that no.htng more first returned to its usual s ate . treated as such; but if, neglecting this order of one of a retained placenta, s.to be t. number of bleeding vessels will be ■ is,Pthat the patient may die from.its effec .J the cbronic state,” says Clarke, Inversion of the womb is oc a yp toms 0f the chronic state resemble those of attended by a mucous discimr° ‘ ti beiugPmade, a tumour is found either in the eagina procidentia uteri; and, an examination b g be mistaken for polypus; but or hanging out of-the externa parts {n inversion of the uterus, the in the latter disease, the os i>den en ^ Moreover, the inverted uterus is sensible; “/“^ofSr on the contrary, are void of feeling.” (p. 153.)] by the avoidance of .H effort^ J the „,mb. But if the pessary to prevent, if possible, e symptoms, if the replacement inversion be accompanied ^iththr^ ^ J ^ of cancer0us or other kWofT^eSn, then may the eases , c c.xtokph’s gesammelte Schriften gebnrts- huifliienTnbaltesf translated into German by Scheel. Copenhagen, lS0^p^30o. Mundin, C. M., Rede von Anatom., P; ie-l. unternommener Lsri.-tt rrfei,, Observations on Inversions of the .Utenja. w*th.» case of successful ex 'Tn ^ -voV sf^ot.D'. Med.-Chir. Trans., vobx. p. 3oS. o .. Journal lur Geburtshulfe, u. s. ».^vob ^ P^ th kk's Jourii^d F^jTljdR) *pL^i appendages soon after delivery; wiUi remw^ the propriety of removing that orpm in cases Inversion or Scirrhus. London, 1836. 11 T-TTINVERSION OF THE WOMB. 121 ligatures with a single needle and to tie them on each side to prevent slipping; it must, however, be borne in mind that the intestines may have descended in the place of the inverted womb. [When the inverted womb falls out of the body, drawing with it the vagina, and increasing weakness is produced by the quantity of the discharge, “ if this case is left to itself, the woman,” observes Clarke, “ either drags on a miserable existence for a number of years, or her life is cut short by the constant drain. Cases of this kind can receive very little benefit from external applications; and it is obvious that not much is to be expected from internal medicines. Powdered chalk or lapis calaminaris, sprinkled upon the part, may check the discharge a little; the oxide of zinc may in some measure abate its quantity; but it will not remove it altogether; and the same observation will apply to astringent applications generally. The following application may have a beneficial effect:—R liq. calcis jiv., mucil. sem. cydon. Jvj. M. * * * It may be considered more prudent, if the discharge diminishes in consequence of such applications, to persevere with them, rather than to risk any danger which may arise from an operation! In those cases of inversion of the uterus, where the woman has passed the menstruating age, where her comfort is destroyed by the disease, and where the profuseness of the discharge threatens her with death from the debility which it produces, it may be ad- visable to recommend the performance of an operation, which has been in many instances attended with success, and from which the author has known a patient recover after she has attained the age of sixty ; this operation is the removal of the inverted uterus itself. Although it is not expedient to subject a patient labouring under a chronic inversion of the uterus during the menstruating portion of her life, under ordinary circumstances, to the danger of the removal of the organ, the system of a woman may be so drained by the excessive discharge as to warrant the performance of the operation.” (pp. 157, 58 ) It does not appear that the removal of the inverted womb by ligature lsdangerous- the eases treated by Clarke himself, as well as those he quotes, did well • so also Blundell’s case, and he observes:—“ Indeed, I have not heard even of any’cases in which the operation has been followed by fatal consequences; though such cases must I presume, occasionally occur.” (p. 145.) In one of Clarke’s cases, “ a strong silken ligature was used, and although nearly three weeks elapsed before the uterus was separated, during which symptoms of inflammatory action presented themselves in full force, with vomiting and diarrhcea, the result was most successful, and perfect health x i rb rT : .» L ^ lcouu buccessnu, ana perfect health P was restored, tp. 1 o9.) In another, in which the operation was performed by Chevalier ‘ a IlSatur? was* applied round the contracted part of the tumour, that is where the M/prw.« tprminflfpn nnrl flin Ta A* l-x i -1 ... , C « rr - . puui me iumuur, xnac is, wnere the uterus terminated, and the vagina began. It was tightened daily, until about the eleventh or twelfth day, when the parts included in the ligature were absorbed, and the uterus fell off. During this time the patient complained of very little pain.” (p. 163.) Blundei i applied the ligature with Hunter’s needle, as in the case of polypus, and in eleven days the uterus came away; it sloughed, and softened down, so as not to separate bodily in he forni of uterus, and the recovery of the patient was complete.” (p 144 5 r.,' j v. Joseph Clarke s case (o), “ the pressure by ligature, which the partially inverted'uterus re for many days, not only with impunity, but with decided benefit to the future health its'rmiraw,^le Juad 111 g feature of this case. When the uterus became completely inverted’ » ^ ”d p“ie°l's pre™us 600,1hoa,th a Ijr' Sv)10N'DS of Oxford (6) applied a ligature in a case of inverted womb in a voune- woman, eighteen years of age, two years and a half after the delivery of a livine ehihf -the placenta been long retained, and was brought away with g/eat violence T P' ind the abdominal cavity of a circular f™™ VI °i?eii Pass.a£° between the vagina (<0 Edinburgh Medical Annals, vol. ind also quoted as above by Clarke. ii. p. 419, (6) North of England Medical and Surgical Journal, vol. i. p. 149. W*[ 122 ] III—PROLAPSE OF THE VAGINA. (.Prolapsus Vagince, Lat.; Vorfall der Mutterscheide, Germ.; Chute da Vagin, Fr.) Schrager, Dissert, de prolapsu vaginoo uteri. Lips., 1725. Strochlxn, J. G., Dissert, de relaxatione vaginae, prolapsu et inversion© uten. A ge t., 1749. Sabatier, above cited, p. 390. Loder, J. C., Prog, i.-iii. de vaginas uteri procidentia. Jen., - 81. Meisner, above cited, p. 212. Clarke, Charles, above cited, part i. p. 142. i29t°. 121.7 for te”"i this canal; in the foimei case 7 • either complete or incomplete-, “of st - £ * -• anterior prolapse of the vagina, and d •„ is here meant to imply a relaxation Clarke, who says, “the term P^uTtV^vt is lower than the natural defined edge of (p. ^^O^’From this description, it may be fairly distinguished at the posterior prolapse of the uacjina. degree, is more or less drawn down, ”1^.<PX7he W- Pro,aPr is at « "^1 L^fl ! red, slightly wrinkled or smooth.ring.* an aperture into acquires a cylindrical form, ’ , d the m0uth of the womb felt, which the finger may be introduce , rally returns in the hon- ■ The prolapse is increased by standing c g thg condition 0f the zontal posture. If it have existe the conimon tegument; skin is changed, it Inconveniences are con- it may inflame, pass on to ulceration, accompanying prolapse i nected with prolapse of the vagina^imiar t« especially if the . of the womb, only in a slighter the vagina, a constant i prolapse have occurred suddenly, a pressu Jo a copious flow * disposition to void the urine and stoos > ^ ^and on every violent of whites, the menstruation becomes = J feet Prolapse forms I exertion prolapse of the womb is to beJt any opening, and a blind sac, at the under end °f the canal of the at the side of which the finger may be pamed i &lready mentioned (*£ The prolapse which depends on vagmal r^i ^ , ^ ^ of the womb lS by*e 4— - *• examination. , ti.:s complaint,” says Clarke; “some Pam 1 , ...... the woma attend this complaint,” says Clarke; *»u«r ^ i not considerable ; some transparent ^ something nacK i» p1„^,llni.,;nc 0f a relaxation in the parts, a (.(be the vagina, and the worn. ^ ^ earlier stage,” Blundell C fcpAfijJ^ projecting from them.” (p- i45.) Cour is very small, perhaps i forming at the back (n) Principles of Midwifery. i ” p 145 j “ In the earlier stage, Bloepell ^u”~forefinger. (ft) Above cited. Ninth Edition.123 PKOLAPSE OF THE VAGINA. once, protrusions by no means uncommon. These protrusions, if small in size, may be looked upon as natural to the part; but they often show a disposition to increase and then begin to attract attention.” (p. 29.)] 1292. The following circumstances predispose to prolapse of the vagina ; relaxation, and slight cohesion of the vagina, and its surround- ing cellular tissue in cachectic subjects after a violent flow of whites, after frequent deliveries, especially if the perinceum be torn, after too frequent coitus, onanism, and the like. The occasional causes are, violent exertions in lifting heavy weights, in violent vomiting, shrieking’ and the like ; violent efforts in delivery, especially in improper postures’ in going to stool, and so on ; also pressure from the parts surroundin0- the vagina, for instance, from large stones in the urinary bladder, from reten- tion of urine, dropsy of the belly, and so on, may produce prolapse. It arises in general suddenly or slowly. [Clarke’s form of prolapsed vagina is considered by him to arise from the habitual constipation of the bowels, to which women subject themselves, in consequence of which the lower part of the intestinal canal becomes so distended sometimes as to make the posterior part of the vagina approach near to the anterior part of the pelvis, and in this Xy«XeaS'• T9lna tTy be “uch diminished. This extreme distension of the gut at length diminishes, or takes off the power of contraction upon its contents and 'irf/,the specter muscle is increased by its frequent resistance to the con- traction of the intestines and abdominal muscles: at length, when, by the operation of purgative medicine, or by the natural strong efforts of the intestinL, or by manual the nnnCf’f WhlCahKS ?ometim?s required,) the lower bowel is emptied of its Contents the pouch formed by it, and the posterior part of the vaqina continues so as to form provident la vagina. If the forefinger of the Surgeon if passed int^hT an Jun<W «ich circumstances, and carried forwards, it will be directed into the pouch s0 formed S22ET to be produced by piles, acting i„ th/same mao,.or es' diseased ovaries Ming down tatBKSZS «I^-thefrrUSi0n bC pressed bJt wUh’ae^TngTwen means tokeep the recS° empt^and^^T " The Practitioner is to direct proper -tore l!Z7ofte 2? ^ to endeavour to restore the tone of the cut Wfv °ne5 lts causes5 afterwards he is tbe second cannot be accomplished■ th« of these objects, emptying of it will be useless Pnmvil r' u °!the bowel IS restored, the mere into the rectum, are the means by which the firstofTlfc^ °?°Utb’.and clysters thrown Piles are present, the class of resinous■ * °bjects ls to be attained. If h the cut is cn Purgatives is to be avoided. - - * * * instances, the cut is en i T , pu.gauves is to oe avoided. * * * As in enn,„ - - .o e»P, Jferyrj firm, ssdzfsiBPROLAPSE 124 her left side on a bed, her knees being drawn of the Surgeon, covered with oil, is to be in,'^“CLd ('u aad warmed, is then to lie the small end of a common table-spoon, co aggisted by’the finger in the vagina, the introduced into the rectum ; and by ’ ’ ))e tbrown Up; and if any feculent faces are to be scooped away. A lai ge c y colon it will be brought down into matter should be lying in the sigmoid flexure of the b tQne t0 th(; the rectum, where it may be easily removed^ produce similar effects rectum, the same means are to be employed as u , . case. The object is to in other parts of the body, Bandages are not applicable to rM A glo- give support to the posterior Fwe Lrooses very well, and it should be carefully adapted “£S*3 S’Z’% ** * PCoP«.i™ in future i. to be carefully preee.tcd. (p. 146-48.)] 19Q4 To nrevent the reprolapse of the vagina, the introduction ot previous to employing the pessary. P , tl remedies advised observe rest and a horizontal posture; and e™PloJ which ( 19*7^ for ^renerthenino; the rGlcixGcl pa-its. In p P 5 {par. 1275) tor strengthening ^ already mentioned in prolapse rr;noi! & iX z; or .>**« ^ ™ ^ get rid of the evil. *jU OF PROLAPSE OF THE BLADDER. (.Prolapsus Vesicce, Lat.; Harnblasenvorfall, Germ.; Chute de la Vessie, Fr.) 9 Clakke C. M., above cited, part i. p. 130. Blundell James, M.D., above cited, p. 31. , f the TProlapse of the Bladder may be easily mistaken 01 p P* „ j vaiia andhas been confused, though with less cause, w h thatof 3?although some of * S' it,ill™, lapsed bladder falls bac v, Jus a i ar,,| the two together descend lessor'“more cZpMely, Z appear at the°« f “^omettaS'H ° ,ess “ but it is in some women greatest in t m '01 sensation, which is forming the pouch orhm.our ^tjm^f prolapse of'.he bladder is mmmsmm. This symptom is especia 1 hale Gf t|ie umbilical ligament, (the accounted tor, perhaps, )> * . the draining upon the navel itscl • remains of the umbilical arty) (&„, „f the r ag.na It with the front of the err-125 OP TIIR BLADDER. uteri; but, as it does not yield readily, it drags down with it the anterior lip of the os uteri, and lengthens it very much. Hence, “the os uteri ” says Clarke, “instead of being found in the centre of the pelvis, opens directly backwards, and lies in contact with the posterior part ’of the vagina; so that the space between the elongated anterior lip of the os uteri and the posterior part of the vagina is very smalland sometimes, indeed’ the os is patulous. There is often a discharge of mucus in these cases’ and rarely it is profuse. ' ’ Prolapse of the bladder is distinguished from prolapsed womb by the absence of the stomach symptoms, which rarely, if ever, occur when there is mere displacement of the bladder (Clarke.) There is not any aperture in the protruded part, as in prolapsed womb; but the swelling Jias a regular form, filling up more or less completely the cavity of the vagina, but admitting the finger to be passed up between itself and the hind wall of that passage to the mouth of the womb. Clarke says that, on tracina- the tumour m the vagina “ to its origin, it may be felt lying between the os pubis before, and the uterus behind ; and a practitioner can hardly fail to discover that it is formed by fluid.” The latter part of this observation is coirect; but its lelative condition with regard to the womb will denend upon the extent of the dropping down of the bladder, and the position of he womb is rather above than behind the tumour. The diminution of the size of the swelling when the bladder is emptied, is also another charac- teristic, and distinguishes the disease from the encysted or other tumours ri,ch occasionally, though rarely, form in the neighbourhood of tE If the catheter be introduced, it can be easily felt within the cavitv of *i?;gelfeSwl X^?ion of the disr>> ^ been inflicted (Castle ) y ^reparable mischief has i"Ta"? the bMt,er empty, in the SS*»ifl3; t^h\t07Vhei ^eis 4r„7on & pressure of the protruding bladder. C°Vered Sufficient tone to resist the for the cure°o/prof^se"of die bkddS^b t ^ !° be pnerally sufficient not be borne, and the downward ptessure o^Xe .w^ ?6 1?strument can" mconvement, that the woman is bcanable^nf h"g-18 80 S'reat a»d “ r :rhto thus country, creep, »h„PROLAPSE 126 becomes a question whether the patient can , relieved; for, although not instance has come under my care, “Jordinary occupation, entirely cured, the patient has been en haired hysterical, well-formed, but not Case.—M. A., aged twenty-five years, a fan-haired, nysitn , stout single woman, came under my care, sixteen years old, and for the first Oct. 24, 1837.—She began to menstruateand suffered very year had good health ; but since that pen° • been scanty, and not lasting much at her monthly times. The menstrual discharge ^ ^ engagt;d in her more than two days, when she has be“ S0£ t it has been plentiful, and lasted four days, occupation as housemaid, and able t0 bt ab01 -thi fog last three or four years, has She has always had much increased, that, for the last suffered much from leucorrhma and the be1 Bj employment, aud been compelled to twelvemonth, she has been unable protrusion was as large as a cowrie-shell, and, give up her place. Five months ago the dually void her urine for then she exerted herself, l4,b“®^ Micturition was always twelve or sixteen hours, and then the protrusior ^ ghe could vold any water; accompanied with sharp smarting F1; repeated efforts, however, she was at sometimes not for eighteen or twenty hours : j P the introduction of a catheter, last enabled to empty her bladder and never £ber shaped pessary; but it was Last spring she attempted weajan an diafel Pdropped out. For the last three useless, as, whenever she walked aboutrt i yand Porn a sponge pessary, which has kept the swelling up, the feasibility of friend Dr. Locoes.. As ®be ba )() f tl“ size of a cowrie, protruded through the os partially filled, and a swelling, about the e furcuia. Some of the ruga of the externum vagina, and just appears bc„an /foil inch behind the orifice of the vagina were very distinct, au|ali0wed the ready entrance of a catheter meatus, which canal was not at all fosplacefl, ana ai -was then found into the bladder Slight.pressureeluding the vagina with the depressed to within an inch of the “ ™\he fl.ontof the neck of the womb that no speculum, it was seen to be so l tb f the os uleri t0 the front wall of the appearance of neck remained; atfromthe pane ^ aMMae> behind the neck, vagina, was one continuous and very ®j^wn the speculum, I could without was, on the contrary, veiy deep. g vaqina from the back of the bladder, and difficulty, nip up an inch and a i half ot the vagi ^ tw0 0f the lax part, having ascertained this, it was determined to ie ^ for Uthotomy as there was Nov. 12.—Having bound faer, and put ^ driving the swelling down, I commenced but little protrusion, and her t‘ r/ t 0 ' foe vagina, and passing a tenaculum through, the operation by pinching up the front ot ^ &q below foe os uteri drew it down ; I then intioduced a nuroose of drawing down the vagina after and half an inch above tbe prevent difficulty from its retraction. The the removal of the proposed si p, Pj|m was then drawn down, and having been portion of the vagina mduded on h t horizontal cut, about an inch and a half felt to be separated from the blnddei, l m, bladder, first with the blade, and in length, carefully separated the W^J^^Hp^ith my thumb and finger mmmmmimn 13—Last evening .h.reMS. ^ the pubes. She feels ratherfamt but he ^ but sbe complains of much pamOF THE BLADDER. 127 As it did not seem well to permit the continuance of the bleeding, I removed the catheter, cleared away all the clot, and introduced the speculum. No clot was found iu the vagina, but there was a free oozing from between the lips of the wound Failing to find any vessel, I removed the right suture, upon which the wound raped’ and seizing its upper lip, whilst she strained, I drew it down, and carefully examined the whole surface, from which the oozing was very free. After considerable trouble T found and tied three small bleeding vessels, which, however, I believed to be veins catheter b eedl“g be'ng checked> 1 Passed a silk suture, and again introduced the AW. 15.—She has not had any more bleeding, and the pain and tenderness of the belly have diminished, but the latter still continues about the region of the bladder There is a little fetid discharge from the vagina, and some small thin flakes of adhesive matter in the urine. On examining with the speculum, I found all the sutures had begun to ulcerate, and therefore removed them ; the metallic ones with some difficulty as thiy did not readily untwist. The wound did not rape but the p-xtpnt nf ti-.„ • y’ could not be ascertained. On the front of the vagina, near the neck of the womb was a. passed ^ U Cerated Sp0t’ PerhaPs where the first thread for drawing down had been She had a tolerably good night, and next morning drew off about half a Dint of vpw much adhesive flakes ; this evacuation was followefwitWeS pain in the bladder and pudendum, for about half an hour, and then gradually subsided deaf %Tl,? thetday’ ‘h,e raUtity °f Water dra™ off Bicreasedf ttmTbecame^uite h6^t S^i P^0^ the^stowdi^and over^he^^ffi^M il^probab]16 bladder, and the „ri„e is ttJJ, ,S ,f,h aSTJ™ m“S m *he of .he lb« sSlie.Hn u'Seo"1 was scanty, ,„d Complained of pain and soreness with beatino- ; ’ bu! 'Bscharge increased, tenderness on pLsnre, as X atom fc “d. »»' tipper part of the thigh. Her bowels are kepf™ “?,d f'’,PU° m the the evening she became verv hysterical •,,,!■) ,, m cast01 0,h In the course of find tincture of henbane, with mP2i ^ But'nextZ ‘VT ?er SOme «tber SeT her bowels baring bee/free,yed, sirsi“ S”h'ae t, of ,be »- b™e •be was desired to bear down. This brought thp JL \ ? aPart ^th the fingers, mited, but was healing by granulationThLtL. f T V1(?T’ which had nofye Jan. G, 1838.—Up to tL present time StT & 6 leucorrh«a- baled. The discharge conC^yV^LTshThl" beV“d.‘h? ™*»d has )n examination, the hwi.im,. „„„ r.. 5 "... ana she has much pain in the loins. )n examination, t • • - - A fortnight after, she was allowed to lef up Ld Sit P,revI°us> to the operation, ladder soon became as at first and nrJLrr P t d k abouti the descent of the ereelf. The operatic, hai£e“re E“™lifitW“; *£ * «erS otng about more than usual, the bladder protreded fo th he m,lddle “f M'mh. after illowine dav still . i..., . .. , protruded to the size of an egg, and on the «■» 'till more butTfeu d.™ S in tb, “ T - on the Id condition. ys rest ln the recumbent posture restored the # r *^ xvotuitiu me >e improv™'^ she ^ould go to the sea-side for ‘S a globular pessary, which ke»t th n 1 1 d Sbe wen^ t° Brighton in April wear >uch pain in the region of the bSdS it ^ ^ Up Vbut after amonth, af it cZed as done with much difficulty and • ’ * Was thouSkt advisable to remove it wdiiet.128 prolapse ment, and returned home to her usual employnie t distance, these became her loins and the protrusion „ part of both thighs. In December, worse, aud were accompanmd w.th pam "i t■»« PP^ but it8pressure upon the rectum trKSfS STSm »* pass her Motions, and after having been worn three nothing therefore was done but to impiov ’st;ii fallen, but less than before, merely SuthemMle of April The irilh the «* •moearing at the os externum,_ and return mrtenine was very decided, was quite ccar on the front of the vagina, of w ic 1 ositjon 0f the womb and the state of its visible, and though not hard was tend^,* p ^ pressure kept the bladder in lip was nearly the same as at firs- f introduced one; but the next day the s SS£3 n:£ ME. U - *• “ - p“",h>t f mece of the vagina, which was done , i)odv bent at right angle with her legs, . P X 18.-She was now placed standing ;^ebohy_ hen ^ A pewter • and resting upon a table, with the pelvis rather h.g introduced into the vagina, . the labia held .par, b, with the gap towards its fiont, a cat eculum. I then seized the fiontof assistants, and the perinctum pressed up w P could conveniently pass a -ith Beaumont’s Pulling up fe^* tenaculum through it, which done, th made tw0 semi-elliptical cuts about an with the tenaculum as far as I could, 1 the neCk 0f the womb to about the inch and a half in length, from half an n‘ cut was made freely with a common , same distance behind the Je aud was made by short portions, cutting scalpel, but the left required a little m convenient; and the insulated piece wa* > onwards with a phimosis knife w hich was y dicd wide, which was increased4 then diected off the bladder, leaving a gag h * v as in the former operation, very j o an inch by paring the edges of the wonnd^ I here , ^ Th sutu*s free oozing of blood, and it became ne™ry to Me dnm havlng been w,th- were put in very readily with Beaumont s needle, an ^ (o be(1 on her face, and drawn they were tied and the opeiation P . might escape as soon as it entered' » htatlo Lie WCre °rfm hours • the catheter was withdrawn her. Another suture am * r.',’l“fhLes™dmen^“.be ^ lh‘ v°9<’" S"PS *' b,C 'OF THE BLADDER. 129 Sept. 5.—She has not gained much advantage by the injection ; the bladder is i„«=r visible at the furcula. J Sept. 20—She returned home, being able to walk about much better than previous to the opera ion and had but little pain m the loins ; the discharge, however, continued to ^e oTbar?bi;raP “ Pmm’ SUpportinS a T bandage, and On the whole I was fearful that she had not derived any material benefit by the operations to which she had been subjected, but was agreeably surprised on seeing November, \840, to learn that soon after her return home, she had been able to stand whole days at the ironing-table without any protrusion. For some months she has been able to go about without difficulty and do anything she has to dobhfastere is some protrusion. I examined her, however, and found little or none } *n ‘be Allowing January she married, and was confined in the ensuing December bhe was taken in labour on the 16(7/. and delivered after forty-eight hours °Q|ip at tbe week’s end. .week after there was protrusionXSe sS'ofa which continued increasing till at present March 2n isao 9., ,, 01 a walnut, LupIti^Sofa laboteFs wife."868 ^ ^ WearineSS t0 ^et throu8h the uTuai aSSisaasjfs perform this operation in a similar Lse Jj / s 7' ° d n0t therefore &=& ?.f feir„?“”r5e°d ass sr„ed iZe of a fist. Six strong hempen^futures^ were the laUa to the -Oman put on her side fa catheter was introduced and™^™1* tled toSether> and the ie urine being found to escape by its side and ran= notr(;move<1 for two days ; but assed occasionally for the following five’or stc days Cnld°n’ f W“ removed’ and he vagina nowand then cleared and washed hv into J' ,Jd water was aPPhed, and constipate the bowels. Two of the suturef w^t Tf C° d Water‘ °Pium was given hers on the sixth day, at which time unfon^Z tTP%*?•'“ °“t on the fo"«b, and the eelcs after the operation she left her bed and' walked SVnttentl0n,^as complete. Three as able to resume her usual occupadonofhouletdd work 1 nd “ " after’ she eeks after, there was not the slightest prolan4 andlpf ’ i°U exa“lning her three olently, the rug* of the vagina were seen, but did not protrude'f"8 t0 Stl'ain IV.—OF PROLAPSE OF THE RECTUM ^ iGerm.; Ch.,1 * BMm. Fr) LOTnCHEITi-D^SSert' de morbis a s^u intestinorum naturali. Lips l72i Luther, Dissert, de procidentia ani. Erf 1739 P ’ 172L Heister, Dissert, recti prolapsus anatome.’ Helmst., 1734 Monteggia, Fasciculi pathologici. Turin, 1793, p 91 rrisse%de proiapsu ex an°- 1793.’ J' ' ' Pr",iCal 0bS'"““S * Loudon, 181„. s„„d Mttal o j- «muu, ion), second Edition. "taJIsH.^Soui' Edit™’0” “ th'J P' in':lI’al Diseases of the Rectum audAuus. VOL. 11. (a) Lanret.vol. i. p. 322. 1841. KPROLAPSE 130 London, Bushe, G— M.D., A Treudse «„ the £>—** ^ ”d the Rectum and Anus. New York, 18-7. • 8v0< Stme, James, On Diseases of the Rectum. ' Rcl!tum. Salmon, F.EnEutc,, Practical Obserrat.ous on Prol.psnsoi 'I,™ Le Baroih Lepons Orales do * ”h—O^nso. Injuries nod Diseases of the Rectum. Won.iBdl ||, “'booole, Sin Benjamin C„ Lee.nnes on DiseM.es of the Rectum, in Wo. MedseJ Chirurgicale. AnRoie.-JW^ * ^ vol. iii. p. 128. Pans, 1841. 8vo. »1 iii p. 128. rarib, ioti. , 1295, Prolapse oftke ST, of ,he’i„.es,ine (Volvulus, In'usJ* here disputed . s^s£“ ‘srisss's ^£^|-^si«is5gS ^'t"CZ:ZU pants, of the inJdne = tosether ; a separation or elongation p(;sential character; whether it be produced EXre <—V df°rB ” %%zzs&* rtjssss^Sf--^-!«* ”nkm f S JS sS tumours’eonsist either o^Un E=i r» distinguished since they h*™e“, ,_vL,ctl they require. ’Ihk^’rXJhm’« hTfonunately unnecessary to en?p*gy,“n^idch the’whole thickness of the gut tse»;* ^ disunites only - f-•*-«£Sof‘t^t ith the action oi me .. , w* «« en^hat^ases^o^occur jn M^hhih^the^wh^e^uOs^pTOhi^dPs^iit^h^o^^a^^o^^^ ation of the recUmthrougb tne in the swelling.” complete, for the p others cited by Nelaton.] i Paii.elawj s case (a) and others c j rectuvu consequent 01 1296. In the prolapse of the lnterna.. fl ^y, ^veiling first appjB relaSL and lengthening widSr, is noun* ^ofaps? j? aSdTng its different durati°"’ an<1 ‘hC ^ (n) Revue Medicale.131 OF THE KECTUM. girting by the sphincter, red, bluish, more or less tense or soft, covered with bloody mucus, and often divided into several lobes (1). • ^Pr01^ ^ie rectumi with all its coats, which I have only noticed in children, a more cellular swelling, which terminates pretty pointedlv projects direct^ as in protrusion of the bowel from artificial anus) and if the finger be introduced through the opening, the contraction of the intestinal walls is distinctly felt (2). 1 lie symptoms which prolapse of the rectum especially produce, are /arious, according to its degree and duration, but generally they are not severe, because the rectum is not so very sensitive to the contact of air. , io\\ ever, Hie prolapse be considerable, it may inflame or become stran- gulated by violent contraction of the sphincter muscle, in which case even gangrene may occur (3). [(1) ‘ ^ hen the mucous membrane is alone prolapsed in the child it assumes ” save ;T,PPr"f °f * ™al1 W™*** redand coded !ala“”hiL in ?hc supposing that the higher Dart of thp mu'pearances.’ which can be accounted for only by )art protruded, and the degree^of vmour Jith^if-8iffE’- “ Vary Wlth the size of the losition. They are, therefore in general whlch ^ lntCStlne resents hs unnatural ■Id people. There is ahv As mo fo l ss ZZT'8^ Z J°lmg persons’ and ^ss so in ion to the evacuation of the bowels • and ,7SfS ♦“ 16 protruded part, and obstruc- he patient become extreme terminal C(!mmences> the sufferings of abated por, ion of inS.e ’52 IThid 2-“' « monifa‘i°» -file apid in their progress, the disease if left to itself „ onsecluences are not always very anger, and should, therefore alw’avs be never be regarded as free from •cshe also remarks that “w'bpn ti^ * emedied as soon as possible.” (pp. 91 2 s) □gorged with blood from the pressureThich the’m1]'0'?1110 re“ain down> h becomes ian,fested by its increase in size and livTd cofour °? the Veins> as is on sets in and is attended not only with great Toooi^ • 1°°° reduced> inflamma- 'ses, death ensues, inconsequence of extensive neritiPaif: « fever’ and’ in some rare 3(1 yet more rare cases the ,te peritoneal inflammation. In some other >Pd 204,205.) Acaseof the CSj P0I',t,0n, &,'0U-hs off> and a ci follows” Prolapse of the rectum is liable to be confounlTw-u7!8^^ and Ansiaux («)• tnssuscephon. Copeland says “ ther!/dd * }1£Cmorrhoidal tumours, and with Jth haemorrhoids, that it may fo some ZtPSUiam iaS 80 man>' P°i"ts of anafogy ucnChr°nic 3nd advan^d state.” (^ 7“) AndsevM?th rd ,as the same disease in a •serves men? br.ane alone should be referred to fhehS^f the Prot™sion of the serves, as to its diagnosis from haimorrhmrh.if th h d of haemorrhoids. Bushe e flaps, the extent of their base our m i ; . , t!!r]aou1rs> that “ the semilunar form of >ger and thumb, as well as their freedom f ^ ° ® ld.e tbe Pcdded membrane between the '2S£ft0 tbosa which andb“hage, are characters enables us to distinguish them ” fn l r o w tamours> that a very cursory examina- In protrusion of the recti'ni we are (P/i^eference’to i P- 205. 9nr. \TCepUon’ no resistance is offered to tJ“AS mucous membrane M05, 00 Ak8iam. N- Clinique Ghirurgicale. Second Edition, p, 179. IC 2132 PROLAPSE OF THE RECTUM. 1297. The causes of this prolapse are sphincter muscle and the natural a .ac1 er use of relaxing clysters hard evacuations from the bowe s, iown. as severe and continued or strainings, which drive the in es ascarides, haemorrhoidal incon- is tz *£$ -a i-tl“ it is for the most part, soon ’ , the continued development of be removed, and more po ,, disease is always more severe, the sphincter muscle. 1,'15r'>"li P In oW ,,relapses considerable continued discharge of and the like, occur (1). 3STST SiSSSSSSS l.«tihra.e, i,-)] . .f • * J 1.. a. MArlll/ltl ' l I ivel to contract, and torce out tne .u ™ keepino- up of the 1999 The treatment consists in the reduction and keepm0 i prolapse and upon the and small, slight pressure . For its replacement, if the P P be considerable and have ■ with the flat of the hand ts sufficient but Hijtb ^ yoided hs , existed many hours, the patient, mus raiged) and the thighs.. ; urine, upon his bel y, wi h?g knees and elbows, and then withs separated ; or he must be put up opening of the rectum, it the finger smeared with oil, placed 1 of t,)e bowel nearest- must be attempted to Fe® back refrain from all forcing and ■ the opening, during which t 1 returned into the cavity of the shrieking. If in this.way the prolapse the finger to carry it rectum, it must be attemp e_ y pf t)ie prolapse be large, of manyr. higher and into its original situatio (1). 1 ePspecially in children, the inches length, and counting of ^ The forefinger rf practice just recommended for it i retur . f the prolapse, with, the right" hand must be mtr^ueed mto he kepPt up .rith the which the prolapsed part is to h forefinger is to be some- fino-ers of the left hand, placed at the e oe > bv repeated thrusting ^withdrawn, and again ntr<$&£*£££%Moult, in come- inwards to return the prolapse. If t e re ^™oA[c Applications, opnun quence of spasmodic forcing, relax » prolapse be girt by the sphincter internally and in clysters, are ^q^^J^^rTmust be attempted aft* muscle and much inflamed and s\\ o , q Dersons recommend * -—- —d i ■133 TREATMENT. children is the followingPurge him with calomel and rhubarb occasionally be very careful about Ins diet, that he does not eat a great quantity of vegetable which tends to fill up the cavity of the bowel, wfile AfforS E SS and every morning let some astringent injection be thrown up. That wWch I have generally used is a drachm of tinct.ferr. mar. in a pint of water, and two or three ounces or more of this according to the age of the patient, may be injected into the rectTm ererv morning, the child being made to retain it as long as possible. I never saw a case of prolapsus ° the rectum in a child which was not cured in this manner/’ (Pn 845 46 f The treatment of prolapsed rectum in children in whom it is JPP' •, ’ \V length, is a very troublesome matter. The attempVto reduce it ri vn^6 aud causes him to cry, and thus force the bowel down repeatedly^lmosfdiS* P*D’ 3SS2 tttoSSof &ha™ e„s,° •£** » ist iss be ^ effort, is a very important part of the nroeeedinn-. ““J,"6,11!111’ and passed with little spoonful of castor oil occasionally, which I think better thanhcalPUTSe I,prefer a tea‘ produce the tenesmus so frequency followingte nse of ^ 35 leS® llkely to however, must be taught how to refurn theaut and stri^L • med;cine- The ™rse, diatelv after the motion has been Dassed and * st"ctly enjoined to return it imme- his chair, as is too commonly permitted.—j. F. s. l° & °W the chlld to sit straining on 1 persons reconimend Icarmraimns °but *as tlleT causethlS H® SaySSome matiou of the large bowel they should nnt a y/ se wou“<-is. and consequently inflam- olijection applies fo leelhes, which may uri’dure i'f P°flbIe> be emPloyed- The ^ame ration of the gut.” (p. 159.)] y P oduce eternal or external bleeding, and ulce- ‘I*?*1 be “deavouredtoget diminish the irritation’of the rectum the hllidCh tlW dl?e,ase dePeilc|s, to to extirpate hemorrhoids and the iu-i ( i \ adder> or neighbouring parts, natural powers by cold bathino- bv cold ’ ^ - ° restore to the rectum its «d the like. To prevent the reni^ 0r asfnn&ent cetera of red wine, water, is fastened with a T banda^ dipPed in cold idhesiye plaster, from there£non°of the ° ^Ppllcatlon of lai'ge strips of he anus up to the region of the rumn hn P &es’near to the aperture of or the passage of S°, ^ mf?y a Space is left JOOCH (c), are to be m-efervod ^ ^ ? bandages of Juviele (b) and >f a pad of lint, in such way as not WeT^rh5 5? *1*° the application 1 hollow cylinder of ivory^r of CanE dlS(?liai’ge of the stools, I ;eeP the relaxed walls in their proper^wTt’ 1/1“ U i§ hoped to T°rn, and still further weakens the ve/ ; ’ butTwhlch generally cannot be ■he rectum may be kept back lu n i fer’. In women, the prolapse of • Klein (d) recommend? 00 tte upon the rectum. a powder,acm^stbg Tf equafp’arte"^? ^ °k! prolaPses the W-vi. v-nhsche soummanum, vol. x (r\ rr J ttfitt-* —* .. “fS »“ <’«• M . p. ll()! bergCr klin>sche Annalen, vol. ii. pt. ( ) It FEI.AND s Journal, 1835, Feb. No. 4.134 PROLAPSE OF THE RECTUM, L OTk * [(1) When an adult labours under ^ r«fs“to destroy the piles. Let the sion of piles, the first thing to be done, bei relaxed, and the parts patient sit on a pan of hot water, am ie -SP ^ protrude together. You must then distended with blood, the piles and rectum P holding the rectum on one side, tie the piles, which you can easily do yo^ assistant no g the piles, you while you apply the needles and hgatures ofi.f that, in curing t » return the reel... into its proper piJ { , , but, if the patient negkels —’"hr' ~ rAvnlansft Ox Ion nself afterwards, as the piles reunn, - r- - standing 1301. All these modes of condderableTconvenience to the really fruitless, and accompaniedwi cribed by Dufuytren (a) is patient (1). In these cases, the trea l beHy, his head and shoulders most effective ; the patient “.^u^hh^%0ne or several pillows, low, but his pelvis on the of the anus more distinct. Two for the purpose of rende- folds surrounding the anus, which three, four, five, or six, of th^are to be seized with a pair ■ are either level, or more or les p ’one after another, right and I of pincers, with somewhat ^J ^'a d eaeh’fold, as raised, is to be taken . left, and even before and behind, and e ^ thg cut is then to be off with scissors curved fowar _t ’but it is ordinarily necessary r; continued to the anus, or ev § upwards. In less relaxation, two* only to continue the cut some 1 P b made on each side. the - - ^ ■ firmness, and the prolapse does not recur (2). /I i rr in ■rnness, and the prompt . Phillips (&)> corresponds in its - The application of the actual cautery, accordi g P t w four applicaUons • opStioTto excision.: aceordmgto the^ merely applied^*- XtonC^ Thelengh: offthe'SS£ ^Scarring produces such contraction of the - A’dW* Of stricture of the relaxed state of the lowest partof themte^ Wfe gaSS * effectual relief to my pat e , ln HscM»s *»- .. r> lfi3.—Journal General tie («) Above c.tu.P.J Graefe und von Medeeme, vol. «»>• ,v° . ui_ p. 524.—Von Waltheb's Joo.n.tl,:°lund, Uemergungen iiber Waltheb’s •,“urn‘a’J° u„,iPl5emerkunt!en iiber ^^BEN^Opfrations'-methode. den M»t- darmvorfall fXSS sa.’WSfc ss**—• o'— Jiicrn ° P‘(l) London Medical Gazette, vol. xi. P- 39*135 OPERATIONS FOR. surrounding cellular membrane, and increase the proper action of the sphincter. Nothing seemed so likely to effect these purposes, as the removal of the pendulous flap and other protuberances, which surrounded the anus. I hoped the inflammation caused by this operation would produce a more firm adhesion of the rectum to the surrounding cellular substance; and I could not doubt that the circular wound would bring on a : greater stricture in the sphincter ani.” (pp. 443, 44.) It is not out of place to remark in reference to these operations, that Velpeau observesVery frequently a portion of the fleshy coat of the intestine is found accompanying the mucous coat in prolapsed rectum. There is no inconvenience in removing with the mucous membrane a portion of the muscular tissue; on the contrary, the cure will be more complete, and I have some disposition to believe that the want of success which has occasionally followed the operation has depended on the omission of this precaution.” (p. 135.) The only means of “ restoring the disturbed union between the inner membrane of the intestine and its external surface,” is, according to Copeland, “ by exciting a degree of inflammation on the external surface of the inner membrane, sufficient to pro- duce an union and consolidation of the parts together.” He objects to the use of stimu- ilating injections, as inflaming the mucous surface, causing great pain and distress, without any material benefit to the disease; for the inflammation is propagated along the mucous surface, without extending to the deeper seated parts or external coat of the intestine. Having shown that the inner coat of the alimentary canal loses a consider- able portion of its villous nature as it approaches its extremities, that wounds at such points are less serious than when inflicted on the more interior portions of the canal, and that • the degree of pam is beyond all comparison, less in proportion as the part wounded or tied is more removed from the anus and the cutis surrounding it; an operation or ligature which would be violently painful at the circumference of the anus nJL;nV°1Ve the smallest portion of the skin, being spoken of as little more than r * or not ca lln8 &rth any expression of pain, when performed on a part of feve^d7nflnTret-emLVe^ fr01?the Seat°f external sensation; and the consequent , tha “ ilTtl1 having the same relation to the part,” he proceeds to observe. Of the Stest L k hv means,then of producing this desirable union between the coats which nrmrrn ^ nVth WOmld’ T a r?moval of a smaU part of the inner membrane .. 'f Protrudes at the anus, and constitutes the disease.” * * * That the removal of S&Sftf S" isr 77 “,kl 10 ,he °f «*^ toe Je “"hink ppear eyiaent, if it be considered how very small a part of the inner memhmnp •emmnder°from ^ Who1- bulk’ ™11 be sufficient t0 pr^ent the „ Ir°m Prodding. I have, in some instances, been obliged to repeat the lot cnffle w6 0pposlte Slde of the gut> when the adhesion formed by the wound was .ave^irfreni^0™^ the ,opera,tion ^ich I think is most advisable, and which I • towelsbeingl^Spffi^„„T/th0Uti ?ne ^urable circumstance^ >6i iderable, to pass a tight ligature round^t! ^ tlm?, cbos?n when the projection is con- i part not immediate^ in fhe vicinitv of tbe^ sma111 Potion of the lnner membrane, at 5th the mucous membrane aid to 1S: the luliou of the cutis 'his is not, for the most SrT a **8*. 'his is not, for the most part nntof i™ with the ligature, into the gut. pium, or a few drops of laudanum he ivPC1ftl0n ’ bUt 14 1S advlsable that a grain of JW be somewhat confine^for a dav fr T™!* ease’ and also that tbe bowels ! uring the active stage of the inflammnti ^iT tbe operat;on i for an evacuation I lterkraPt the adhesions which we defend on fnr°tl d g'V6 C0?Tslderable uneasiness, and | ot been less complete, because thc m l,!l the cure. Nevertheless, the cure has ’ ate tbr ^veral days after the onermion‘ “ * “^.swelled and painful several days after the operation. J xy\lf the bowels have not acted snonWnu f flammatl?urequire it. In two or three '• a about five or six days the liltore ^S°m,e ?lld aperient should be given, fl’ a.nd «ase to come down, or come dowZnfshortly afterwards the part will aeration.” (p. 77_84>) wn> comt only in a much less degree than before the136 treatment of old prolapse of tiie womb. This .nods of »£- » ~'F"£^ described almost entire ft*e^rom LdlSS^rcS adl* cases CopeJkiVs method will be found amply sufficient, and infinitely less painful.—J. r. s. procedure in question, (Dupdytbes’s | M'Cormac says (a) that “ reflecting on the■ least> whilst operation,) it occurred to him that the . , tractjon * * * Accordingly when the child went to stool, be secured by drawn to one side by mean. .! the child went to stool, the skin, anterio th ’ this with some reluctance, of the fingers extended around The btile ghewas encouraged, however; and complained that she could not ev month since, the bowel has not a stool was obtained; attendants. her T302.1.“ToMT»ia,,re onheU>», a considerable enlargnrent and . and at fast hardening of the prolapsed part, IKj(lrY|" j7i15'|' hrietiirn be the contact of the air, rubbing, and so on “ “ “ure and the - displaced, by violent forcing, aJK,^ ,'the bieedino- part with the actu|| ! I‘ i!Pf^hi^e“g^and the *2 c ^oftLt^nereased8 In order to »«*«-*«« rf '«■ in cutting off a degenerate prollapse ■ofthe ^ ,1 be Sclent.: tlie following proceeding, which he hao i y p separated from each: The patient being properly placed, and th^u^SJ^i(rbt needles from . ling, draws it gently ral,0o„s and muscular coats, “C the removal, the bleeding is to be shmchedby^the usud meamc c„,d water i-^ffle^t, ) **£ ^ded surfacs, TkeV out by diet’edles. The needles are to be left in for an hour, ^ir^jssr^ t£S WAtf-l ca»«ry mmfm S^“6of”L“ “ttd rectum was recommended by .\ie operated on three women at tj* result after a natural slough of the protiuued g , P SUCcess. DurrYTRE- bladder.” (p- 161.)] (a) Dublin Journal of Medical Science, vol. xxiii. 1843. (c) Above cited. (h) Practical Observations on Prolapsus Rectum. London, 1831. fevo. (d) Above cited.RELAXATION OF THE ANUS, OF THE RECTUM. 137 1303. The prolapse of an ensheathed upper intestine, of the lower end of the colon, of the ccccum, even of the ileum, is usually distinguished by its having some inches of length, and by its condition. The only aid consists in the return of the prolapsed part into the rectum, and in keeping- it up. If the finger be insufficient for its return, an elastic tube, and even the dashing of cold water (Boyer) must be used. A very large portion of ensheathed intestine of considerable length has been observed to separate and to be thrown off. 1 d£sTeSrfly JteLT °f ,h' m‘y WeH “ noti“ here •*» con- 1. Relaxation of the Anus, which “ depends upon a want of contraction in the sphincters the causes of which are :-disease or injury of the brain or spinal cord exhaustion attending weak health, sedentary habits, protracted diseases or old aee excessive or repeated dilatation of the anus, produced by straining in chronic dysentery the introduction or extraction of foreign bodies, and the growth r within the intestine, and finally operations performed forfistufa fislure^c sequent^ of ,Ms affection are proper,innate to the ™, “p„we™n £ thus, when they are completely paralysed from disease or inini-v nf tht w P“ * cord, the faces are discharged involuntarily • whereas in that ,1 ■' • l br~m or. sPlnal depend upon the cause : if the brain or sninal nm-ri ; Pbe treatment will if there be hsemorrhoidal or other tumours they must h &U ^ jSe m“st be lookecl to ; health be impaired, it must be improved ‘fe ttT°Vedj a,?d if the general the injection of half a pint of cold watt, throe time “ iS "p1 SfST are recommend 0/,'“■ "™4™“ “ «•disposed to empty or relaxed, and the iSdiS sZiiTZhn.wTT, "'h“ ”*■» S membrane may be forced into the inferior part of this inf ^ a motlon> the mucous obstruct it, so that the fiecal matter lodged -L™ ! u intestine, and thus partially If the finger be introduced, the Lturfof the case m but ’"‘Perfectly discharged7 : oowels are confined; the calls to Lfecate are ! , WlU be easi1? dis«>vered. The ‘ nothing being voided but mucous orpurifbrmLattefoftef X ^/enef1[1J Ineffectual, fie pain is always considerable, but occasionally violent a ,?'1 Wltb blood i finally, iperients, emollient followed by astringent w 1 *' /-^ll-regulated diet, gentle ! ’» b“§'' »i'l generally suffice T of M.ltS^S liie not detected, one of two things must fniin ^ however> the nature of the case for fa worse, the displaced Pro/«pa«, willing x-cn long affected with a contraction of tl! } .p g woman is stated to have m«s; and the bridle forming the ring hi? ® n’ or four inches above the l llowed liquid matters to mss ,,,1,,. g’ baid> callous, and so contracted that it „ i 1 torn continues:—oij fried dil^.w.? <S a”,se, obsti”ate ““tipations “d Co ij » f J i *tere for enteritis> d*e ^nation overcLe Weut colic aud y “ P‘CCe of membrane protruded (n) Etudes sur l’lnflammation. Paris, I Ain. Hvo,138 CHANGED DIRECTION by the which being slightly pulled, Etfltal is bS: swttrJtf-’S- * -*» -11 which have been noticed as one causem ‘ Quantities of fluid into the rectum, by “ are daily in the habit of throwing instead of the enema affording relief; which it is forcibly distended and ii ntated .ftl > ^ ^ resulth)g from this practice it is productive of serious untat > distension thus induced, is rendered unsus* is, that the rectum, from the imm ordinary accumulation of faiculeut ceptible of the. —I supposed stricture of th, matter and in support of this statem without difficulty, to the great sur- rutSEfp^f^ of of fitin 8™> into the intestine ouc^ and occasionally twice every day. (PP- -b D _0F CHANGED DIRECTION OF THE WOMB. Medical Observations and Enquiries, vol. iv. London, 1771. Saxtorph ; in Collectan. Soc. Med. Havniens., vol. u., 177 . Desgranges ; in Journal de Medecine, vol. lix. Wall, A., Dissert, de uteri gravidi inflexione Hal , 782 r==;=^eu^ der Gebhre,utter. P,„ . 1790‘ ,, . „ PoKh mm tier • in Theden’s neuen Berner-1 LoHMEiEB,Vonder Zuruckbeugung der Geharmutter, kungeu und ^^X^eLersionem animadversiones. Ups., 1797. | MerrimIx S„ On Retroversion of the Womb, including some observations on extra , Ut“X“E°fbb™g« ’uldAbbsudluugeu aus d.m Gebiete der Kr»ukheit» « weiblicbeu GerftleehKs.^ 'pbysMogische »ud praktische Gegurt shSlete Geburushiilffe. ober die Zuriickbeuguag d« GebSSVjtcS^n, nebst einigen Beobacktuugeu iiber dte 1 or.a* . ; TcHoabTVrdcr Zuriickbeuguug der uicbtcbswaugereu Gebiiratuuer i j hUlfe und gerichtUchen Medicin.vol. n. p- 150. Blundell,^A^s^h^-^abOTe^cited^^ ^ ^ ^ ^ Uterus; in bis** ports?n Dbeases of Females j in Medical Tunes, vol. xm. 18 • inaJJh 1304. The womb is subject to various chanSe*°either side’from that S 2#T will be here specif con- sidered.OP THE WOMB. 139 1305. If the long axis of the womb vary so much from that of the ■pelvis, that cutting it at a more or less acute angle, its base be directed towards the rump-bone and the mouth of the womb towards the share- bone, this displacement is called Retroversion of the Womb (Retroversio Uteri, Lat.; Riickwartsbeugung der Gebdrmutter, Germ.; Retroversion 'de la Matrice, Fr.) ; but if its base drop towards the share-bone, and the : mouth of the womb be inclined towards the rump-bone, it is called Antro- sversion (Antroversio Uteri, Lat.; Vorwartsbeugung, Germ. ; Antrover- sion, Fr.) The former position is more frequent than the latter, and both may occur to a greater or less extent. 1306. Retroversion of the Womb occurs more frequently during preg- nancy, especially in the third and fourth months, than in women not pregnant; it is, however in these often enough, and (according to Schweig- haeuser and Schmitt (a) ) even more frequent than during pregnancy; md my own observations on this point concur with that opinion. [Rigby is also of this opinion, and observes“ I am sure I have the confirming estimony of Dr. Simpson and Mr. P. Smith when I state it to be one of the most lommon displacements to which the uterus is liable in the unimpregnated state, and that his form Pf *t occurs far more frequently than the ordinary retroversion during iregnancy, (p. 124.) There is, however, a difference between the retroversion which iccurs whilst the woman is pregnant, and that when she is not so; for Rigby observes W H fSC i”0 r H li‘dedi t?,1VV!'ei'e thefundus is bent downwards and backwards • so t it can be felt close behind the os and cervix uteri, which, instead of being forcibly i ragged upwards and forwards behind the symphysis pubes, is little, if at allfremoved 10m its natural situation. This state of retroflexion (a term which Rigby prefers to eu-oversmn, j. f. s.) is chiefly met with in the unimpregnated uferJ. lRhough it ometimes occurs during pregnancy ” (p 124) S 6 aiuiougn it S bstruction of the rectum nnH thp hio^ri l -l9 n c9nse(luence of the irritation and haraoteSui before7v“.” (p £yf"' ‘he a“,d“‘ is s<»" recognised by the 11 ls Pro.babIe that retroversion of the womb in pregnant and not rfe s-s eviation of the original formalin .1 Ps aso Douglass folds, peculiar gaments of the womb The nor ° ■ ’ ie^axatl0n °f the broad and round 1 Bibliothek, vol. v., IliburUhr.lf. 3l.°--bTA“5s Archiv. fiir die ,V- Px ®37—Osiandek ; in 1 Zcitun»> lso«. vol.’ i BEUNMINOHAUaKN; in VON SlEBOLD' IV. s K^Terkrankhdten,rt^i!^ejii,^'^U5g^^?er'lma hakvseb and Sohmitt, above cited. " HWE‘°' and)Ap™E3A.i"H0RN’8ArChiv- 18l7> Mareh140 RETROVERSION pregnancy (a). . „ , . , , 1308 The symptoms which indicate retroversion of the womb depend on^the obstructecf or completely suppressed aSSeSn dlsp^tioirt? vo ^ctual loniitin^ ! j fever extreme restlessness, abortion, and even death from tearing of : . the bladder, and inflammation and gangrene of the intestines of the t, b Thefimng retroversion of the °°S^ ! I ■which case at the later periodsso pr g : J’ n terminates in abortion, and is ■ I womb L a, al. deviating f-.m .hew: natural position (c). mtient often tells her adviser that she has been I j l(|) ;Ob»™jttat..JSiiS.U oo retiring, and .tying « placed in some not a drop of the secretion would pass away, and evacuate the contents of the bladder p accumulation having i the accumulation having . forcing; and fluctuation, wintu may , . it to be understood, however, an veiy 1I|!P(^a^ always nor I think generally, these • in the retroversion of pregnancy y ou h ^ ^ .g retl.overted) the retention is complete retentions of urine for o > although the woman passed her urine partial. In a case recorded by Van Day after day the fluid is every day, still she died from a rup ured bladdcr ^y jUpletelv, till sparingly emitted, but or she may have hy-and-by, perhaps, the secretion e )r|. wil, and w;th every effort a small gush strong efforts to pass the urine, ® continual dripping, and yet, notwithstanding only may be produced, or there may i„„n,, tlv.it cwornl nints. naTi' worn™ labouring ^bsStyXIttiie^J-a gn»l’*|>e 3StS of a retroversion of,: uterus.’ ” CPP- 7> 8’) . ,,, whether bv sympathy or direct irritation, is not so auala^ous symptoms of less intensity aie presen •] ,09 On examination with the finger in the vagma, the mouth of* womh is fonSi behind of above the share-bones, often scarcely, some Robertson, CasesandObservationsonsimple sr™.”«. >;h' in Edinburgh &«Vin Med. Observed Enquiries, vol. iv..^ii««“-*^^din; "pases and "Remarks in Surgery. London, MKR, ®”HEL • in Loder’s Journal, vol. lu. ITSrfJin Stark’s Archiv. vol. 17194_N”b..is in Stark’. Archiv. vol. vi. P’oHl’—Van Doeveren, Specimen obserTOtionum p.Jol. i monstrorum histonam, anato- ftcademicarum n obstetriclam spec- tantium. Groning , 1765.—Keids ”?* Itiickwartsbeugung der GebarnuU^r in^^^ MonatederSchwangerschaftpn hRORiti i ST) U^;i‘.tmvePmion4of the Womb after 1* witi? tearing of the hind wall prolapse of the fundus uteru-See I’resse Medieale, Mav, 16d«. ‘ \0. Jl uero ; in Caster’s \Vochcnsclmft, 1S3S- X'[d) Annalesde laChirurgie, vol. xiii. P-4j‘’ 19t April.141 OF THE WOMB. fcs \j> t* times not at all reachable, and on the hind wall ot the vagina is the fundus of the womb, descending- against the rump-bone like a lump, which on examination is felt through the rectum. [ “ In examining a case of retroflexion of the unimpregnated womb during life the finger, says Rigby, “can frequently reach a firm globular mass like a walnut situated behind the cervix uteri, and evidently posterior to the vagina. At the first touch, or to one unacquainted with this condition of the womb, it seems like a lump of scybalous matter in the rectum ; for in many, perhaps most instances, the finger cannot reach sufficiently high up to distinguish the continuity of this mass with the cervix the point of flexion being usually in the body of the uterus, close above its junction with the >cervix. 1 his, however, varies considerably, both in different cases and in the same iindividual, and at different times. In some cases the curve is much higher, so that the > whole of the uterus seems to be in the natural position, except a sharp bend or double at its uppermost portion. In others, the point of flexion is so low down that it can be easily reached, and the fundus is felt much lower than the os uteri. “ On examination per rectum we feel the same hard lump through the anterior wall of .he intestine; and by being able to reach higher up in this direction than with the finger per ■agmam, we can frequently verify or correct our first impression. But it is by the uterine sound, invented by Professor Simpson, that we obtain such peculiarly 4lSe anl nteresting results in this form of uterine displacement. On passing the instrument in he usual direction upwards and forwards, it becomes almost immediately arrested ■ turmng its point backwards, exactly in the contrary direction, it will pass mrVnf t0nS 'a then glide downwards and backwards, until the measure Tthe mt,r™iardta'taVf lnCheS h.aving reached the os uteri, shows us that it has entered , C 1th6 Utenne cavit>'; the Point ^ now evidently in the cent,^ of ,3® t““°“r between th.e Tectfm and vagina, as may be felt through either of these iillv tur’nin^th™71^ ^ be tbe fundus uteri in this unnatural position. By care- placed! maintains7 £ nS ^ 1DSta,11Ces the uterus’ when °”ce j^been fbi^d very\(nvdoirn ^he a^d ^ •ith it; we shall now again feel the tfmonr ^t^ 306?611’ c.arr/lng the sound along omt of the sound within it. r ln the recto-vaginal sac, containing the <° thu /md„ Lto7lTb7m„rLeZST‘, ‘h/ °™3’: UK sound .ill pa,s •per parts of the vagina into file vicinkv of Tp b lf W® the finSer to the he same will be observed in examination u™'7 Yf S-ha 1 excite severe pain, icterus the patient complains greatly but per Z ^ lnstant we P1-ess up the '^certain that the intensely painfulklot iduVoLZ™ 'l1101 Pamfu1’ and we can ™?treflected uterus. These and ! 1S distinctly above the tumour formed by the i i flammation ptinnni ,n!!e/n ,otber. symptoms resulting from Ovarian irr*?+Qtmn irenecteu uterus. These and otpli. I r ‘ aoove rne tumour formed by the ! flammation cannot, therefore, be looked ^Ln^leSulng fronl ovarian irritation or ■ction, although there is no doubt that tb( ™ r Decef,Sary accompaniment to retro- •i'ns are sufficiently often assocTated to i^tL , Pr(JSeDt 5 hut the two affec- & Tner"s ,n every case of chronic oophoritil Careful examination of the position of ? *n some cases the cannl nf • , T_ ui cnronic in some cases the eanni nP • . «jery attempt to introduce the loundTnd'th® at the P°int of flexion as to resist Sufficient passage has been obtained I havn T* be carefulIy premised until ria‘,s » closed as to require Se dilator^ T*’ however> t0 think that when the |1310* The symptoms do not occur so quickly in retroversion of the142 RETROVERSION OF THE WOMB. womb in women who are not pregnant and vary 1 of retroversion and the condition ol the womb. Only with slight reel, nation and little sensibility of the womb do no symptom be much sensibility, dull pain occurs >“ ,£ painfulness on examination, sometimes difficulty in the ^charge o^tne urine and stools, and gradual organ,,; o£rv§>| mi and stools occur. If the letioversion xaice p ,f t that these I cause continued and dangerousfloochng (c,) Ldta^Sang« in the f ey even be fatal from the indal ■ any peculiar symptoms ; indeed, in some ’ , otherwise than in a stateof single circumstance to make the patient suppose ^ periods. Generally speaking, I the most perfect health, even as regards the t < P verging to one side however, there is a dull pain and sense of pressure instances, or the other, according to the direction •/ • [ difficulty or inability to more she has pain and numbnessdown the thigh of that witn a y gome of the sacral or stand upon it, and probably arisingf from the JZental the uterus, and the nerves, since the pain is instantly removed by. therepla^m ^ ^ ^ pr numbness or lameness ceases m an equalJy again subsides, and which is jssg jarJssfw °v«* ^the ne'igbourins intestines’a m0K r fcSSiSit; of cases there on the side to which_ the: ^Vhich the idems inclines, so is it also the left ?^hkbT;"ss.' C»dj p”»M- Ttese »e-in *• 0^di,'a^, most perfect cure, but in the lattei not. k “that where With respect to the prognosis glided you r™c^ («") Brunninohauskn, above cited. (b) Sohweighaeuser, above cited, p. -o3. -Schmitt, above cited, p. 16.TREATMENT. 143 open, of which I possess a very beautiful preparation. The uterus is as large as a child’s head; above the retroverted uterus is the bladder which has been ruptured. It is remarkable that in this rupture of the bladder, which has arisen from its over disten- sion, it is not the front, that surface of it, I mean, which has no peritoneal covering, but it is the posterior surface, invested by the peritoneum, the back part of the body, which is the region of the rent. Now it was this which first led me to propose, that where a rupture of the bladder takes place in any case, but especially in a retroversion of the uterus, we should not give the patient up for lost; for if there is reason to believe that the bladder is burst into the peritoneal sac, we might make an opening into the peri- toneum—s&y above the symphysis pubis,—by which we might discharge the urine, and then injecting distilled water, of the temperature of 98°, we might wash the viscera so .perhaps as to prevent a general peritonitis; this done, we might draw the bladder’up !t0 the opening, and close the rent by ligature. This operation I have performed on several rabbits; m one or two experiments I brought the bladder out, tied it up, and took away about one quarter of it, viz., the whole of the fundus, and the animal did perfectly well. This operation I have never had occasion to try on the human subiect • but in a case otherwise desperate, I should be inclined to recommend it I may here remark, that since I have suggested this method of closing the bladder by ligature, Mr Travers (a) has performed the operation on the stomach ; there was a slight wound in the organ ; he boldly tied up the aperture; the thread came away, and the case did per- fectly well. (pp. 19, 20.) It must not be supposed that Travers made the ligature on the wounded stomach from Blundell’s suggestion ; Astley Cooper had long before tied up the hole in a gut, wounded during the operation for strangulated rupture, and the case did well. Travers himself had also, some years before Blundell’s proposal onsidered the mat er, related experiments on the subject, and laid down rules for the ongSfore ** bENJAMIN ^ ^ meationed this T-stion^ven i312 The treatment of retroversion of the womb consists in emptying he womb61- and rCCtUm’ and °n the restoration of the natural position of •nth3!3 EDStTg the. bladc,er is effected by the introduction of the inS t’i 'VhlC - 1S rendCTed easy lf with two fingers of the one hand, that cl11™ oppofte the Pubic symphysis, be smoothed and pushed pwards or if its more elevated position forbid this, if it be merely pressed >achwards Thjs manipulation is not without advantages even1 if the nee of the urethra be so much drawn inwards, that it cannot be seen ’ f any other obstacle to the use of the catheter exist (c). When drawing i ite»^rpossible’p“ctoing Madder I .n§?e'2 wilhlfeut? ot deS?‘ed Tf fySterS, (WhiCh «“ often stacked with suitable treatme^™1510™8 ^ alS0 present> they must be : ombtrv^/ PThe™Sf7 '7^ °f *■"> Averted » >e base of the womb is !!? b?^ placed on her knees and elbows, " ivel, with two fingers introduced^? f?rwards and npwards towards the -ay perhaps be assisted by two fin 16 rectum (f) ; which manoeuvre I. . by tW° fin^ers passed into the vagina, and mthefir8t volumeoftl,is KPTr ^ others. ’ •’ Saxtorph. Richter, nn.lretroversion of the womb. 144 attempting to draw down into the -end the placement to fo. The difficulties vagina, and m difficult case, t0 the use of elevating } which have ^^“^^fofjuncturingthe womb (c) (2) of cut-- (?) Bellanoer (/) advises, when,»»„«« . j tns^sfcSr"* £’el,aad'1™: I 3itll‘«.!SS .. replaceieut had been vainly made ,n d.Herent way. ^nnSgfch-,»f the womb' ?^,ty p=\Jrough the r.c. into the most projecting par. o( t the swelling. . hv inflating a bladder introduced into the vagina . Halpin (t) effects the reP^ce“ says h| « a small recent bladder to the tube, in the following manner. I y d ’having immersed it a few moments in of a stomach-pump, w'*“a^tgjtpston , introduced it, empty, into the vagina,, warm water, to bring it to the heat ot me y Retaining it within the vagina, by ;■ between the fundus of the uterus Ke g ^ ^ inflated, i holding my hands firmly across tnse of tens on^r bursting, but no pain. We then After a time she complained of a sense ot wag in a]ready t0 remain, keeping . ceased throwing air into ^^S^^lure on the tumour. After the expiration up as it did a steady, equal, wel^“”^tRfbladder when the patient exclaimed slowly, of five minutes, we threw moi e air into the blaa > ^ „ j J.etained the bladder some “ Oh 1 now you are forcing somet n g P> 7 withdrawing it, permitting the escape • time longer in its situation; and then previo ion of finding that the tumour S^fpr^m elastic bag, —d „ this principle, and md.tc « a proper state of distension.” (p. ‘ 6.) . . «AA 1315 t i. i q315/7=o^ successful cases to have the whole hand, and has been often unsuocessfu y ft (he morc heroic proposal, with the employment °f great force f ; t puncture of the bladder; for realizing the replacement, emptvino- the rectum and bladder, is permissible, as in thecases where manipulation is insnf- the symptoms are not diminished, •and ttego* e /may occur, that ficient, such fixing of the worn Hunter found on dissectior the replacement is impossible in any way, as of a person who died from this disease ( )• jn women not pregnantr 1316. In reference to ™for the removal of the symptom: rrly r^Inio’n'Seubrlnc and stools. As to the replace^ . .w • lo TC.'tmvprsion de (6) above cited.-lUcHTER, G M., ^opsei^r^vos medico-ofctetric,*. Mosq., 1810. ab(°J)e toHTEA^n'Chirurg. bibliotbek, vol. vii. P* 7?9p.LLtsEN, Systema cbirurg. liod., vol. u. p (^& in llusT’5 MaSMm’ p. 243. f) Memoire sur la Reversion de YVtU* Levue MMicale. Ufb P- ~i9' xxxiii-p- -06. ,pj(| ICo.44. (i) Dublin Journal, vol. xyn. lsw. (ft) Vermandois, above cited. p« (IV Kinige mcdicimsclie und cbimj*’ — K.G. Kuhm. Lcipz., l«S4,>oi. 1.TREATMENT. 145 Schweighaeuser considers it unnecessary, in which opinion Schmitt also concurs, as by emptying the bladder with the catheter, and the intes- tinal canal with opening clysters, and the previous use of neutral salts with carefully observed position on the side, the rump being raised and the upper part of the body bent down, nearly always the effect is produced and the womb gradually resumes its natural position, whilst also the swelling gradually subsides. This may be assisted, if with two fingers introduced daily into the vagina, the base of the womb be raised gra- dually but carefully. If the symptoms be inflammatory, merely mild remedies, emulsions of linseed or almond oil, fresh castor oil, luke-warm bathing, steaming, by means of a sponge laid on the generative organs relaxing poultices upon the belly, and even general and local blood- letting, and copiously rubbing in mercurial ointment on the insides of the thighs. When the most pressing symptoms have been removed or les- sened, then the replacement is to be especially attended to. Only when retroversion of the womb exists without any appearance of acute inflam- nation, may the replacement be at once attempted, but it must not be too ong continued. As to the manipulation of the replacement, all that has ieen said heretofore applies. n !?!?* )VIT the WOmJb is returned to its place, it has rarely a disposition o be displaced anew, and the continued position on the side, is sufficient to •rev ent it. And besides as the womb enlarges during pregnancy, its retro ersion is no longer possible. If there be% special disposition to reJro ersion, a round or oval pessary, with a pretty large aperture or a suffi T baml?6 °f Sp°nge introduced int0 the vagina and fastened with T bandage, will prevent it. This applies also after the replacemenTof ,g o"E!ckt(«)!,°'”b- The patient Sh0Uld ve,y carefl% “void keep the uterine cavity, (two and a-half inohpq V fi-™ 1 • ^ consists of a pm the length eri can rest, connected will, - " S,) fixed ln. =1 dlsc or button on which the o, e mons Veneris, which is fixed and'property adjlisted b^ta'7 & f^ame resting on i genious mode of supporting the uterus lie hi lk. ^ a PuS' Another and equally ssary, to which he has fixed the Sn bv asmW,\tainedr^ “eaus of a species of lave never tried this last but to^hc Jh g ^luge’ llke tbat of a knife-blade ving applied it in a con&£ufnSSbJtf TfaTOUra“e testimony s subject. I have lately altered the form of Z i r ld 1 propose to illustrate •king it flat, instead of round, and broader so as to ad^/? “ paSSed into the Series, the cavity. The pressure which U exerts on the in p “ore fxactly to the shape !s more equable, and over a l „ a the lnternal surface of the uterus is itation, which, especiallv at tLw,n,fpaCC: a,nd consequently does not produce so much •mg also a profuse discharge and forTl^ penods.’ ’? occasionally troublesome pro- •mical action which takes nheei • lonSer per,od than usual. To obviate the % Portion of it made of ivorv Lt anplnStrUm?.nt made of German silver, I have had ‘Stockholm, to whom I shewed’it and'^*ugsestlon of "T fnend Professor Retzii^ ifort than with the ordinary nii.Vthl J‘ haS b<*n worn with much more H9 ifort than with the ordb^pi^Z Sw? U has be™ worn witTmuch more '^.‘/F^^th^oTd!116GemanSilverProfes’sorby rpi * r © nnu gold. u-itcciuy reni Und I have rea^n* to' bdilve^lmUn laStrum?nts require to be worn varies a good ^ ^Cen t0 lCb^e^e Tin, VV illiam ; m Medical Observations and Enquiries, vol. iv. ^OL. II.ANTROVERSION OF THE WOMH. 146 • x „„„ «v,n,w.pK of success will be much is >1sssss («'■ >“• «•». I and occurs in both the uiq rug v;0lent exertion, on vomiting, on a false former case it is consequent o stomach and belly, step, and so on, the urine. The region of febrile symptoms, and frequent g y the whole belly, full, puffed the stomach is somewhat tendes i ^ stre9S upon the pubes is very up, especially the c <’urine painful; in which, however, troublesome ; the forcing o therewith usually is there great but little is discharged and only mdiop., th<* \ filing a. urgency to going to stoo , ^ ^ behind the pubic symphysis; it big as the fist, seems rpbe drao- upon the bladder becomes can, however, only s ^ [ d f urine being discharged, a violent attack . exceedingly severe, without a drop ^ Band fche hypoga8tric region of fever takes place, disposition „ d f rinary bladder may so cover will not bear the least touch ; tbe distended ur^ 7^ Qq examining the the swelling of the womb t ia 1 fino.er raore deeply introduced, strikes • vagina, its entrance is uair > wmnhvsis upon a semilobular swelling, immediately feels'smooth, elastic, and soft, and some- which drops into the little Pel™s’ \ either n’ot at an felt, or only with what tender. The v»^n*1 P f the pelvis above, pressed against I difficulty, in the more free> *“fde™P _bon£ and otherwise forming a the rectum in the hollowo Jhe fi cannot be carried round S“t:f h5 "cgiu.1 portion nor the swelling are movable. by pressure. . ;mt,re<mated womb differ according to their The symptoms of antroversion of ■the impregna ^ In the above-described perfectly healthy, (p- 210 . . i(lent j have never seen an instance during g J0HN o? tS LS it must be very rare ; tat I ^ -Jit retroversion- f VtUnlaced womb is Siiisiss- JS@r&sc4| IV Art des Accouche mens, p147 TREATMENT. i the womb often takes place in pregnancy, particularly during the first four months; but it also takes place under other circumstances, I have no doubt, and that much more , frequently than is commonly supposed. * * * The posterior displacement will be readily recognised by examination per anum. The finger will have to pass very much more backward than usual to get around the os tinea, which lies hard against the rectum, just above the sphincter ani, and is very perceptible to the feel of the Surgeon. In 4 passing the finger per vaginam, the neck of the womb is first encountered, occupying the jj situation of the os uteri. The os uteri is found lying against the rectum, its aspect being f backward and downward toward the point of the os coccyyis, will have to be carried : back in a curved form to reach it. The space between the os uteri and the posterior s ; termination of the vagina appears much larger than natural.” (pp. 221, 22.)] 1319. In treating antroversion of the pregnant womb, if the swelling be firm and immovable, blood-letting, clysters (of an infusion of belladonna, according to Hachmann) should be first employed, and the urine drawn I of! with the catheter. If the swelling be thereby rendered more movable, ar if it be movable from the beginning, and unconnected with any parti- cular symptoms, its replacement is to be attempted. The patient must be placed on her back, with the pelvis properly raised, the four fingers of the right hand being passed into the vagina are carried up to the deepest lyino- Dart of the swelling, and this is to be forced by a gradually increased pressure upwards, and in its slow yielding, somewhat backwards, whilst the left hand fixes the hypogastric region immediately above the pubic sym- o/iysis. In Hachmann’s case, very considerable, and for the patient, ixtremely painful force was employed, in order to lift the swelling out of he little pelvis. When this was effected, and the mouth of the womb •emoved from the rump-bone into the axis of the pelvis, the hand was vithdrawn, and the pain ceased as by enchantment. Continuance on the lack for some time is sufficient to prevent the recurrence of the displace- oierXwn tlmnO^ “entio?.a cas? ^ ^hich tbe foetus uteri inclined forward, w Hnri™ rtf *’/"d m.whlch '‘eduction seemed impracticable ; yet, nature lone, during the progress of gestation, accomplished the cure. mm?™1’ °/ Kfn“es> ''elites (a) two instances in which the natural position of the rf0red S1InP[-V !,y P°sition- The first case he was unabk to see but rected that the woman should be put on the side of the bed, with her head and hands osit on he’savs Kt the *ig? a“d 1<?gS °nIy resting 011 the bed- I" this mnt J’ 1’ , h Jitestines, being drawn towards the diaphragm, the pelvis is Sattnt b\ n \beinS n0 lon#er Pressed on- resumes its naturaf position After p t ent had been in this posture fifteen minutes, all pain ceased In thp seennrl men monSs^'^flS/Sad^ She ^ been Pregnant between three and a-half •emient Sv . , ch,ld- She was attacked with weight in the pelvis and rA£lmke Watefr- Nothing having been done, excepting that she eck of the womb u’a/fl n,- continuing next day, an examination was made, and the 'as in front mil h tv | . ,e i'tld’ ,alld towards the curve of the sacrum, while the fundus o? SSSftjshe wa"s placed ift’ thefWadder ™ beiag full, ’the cathe/erWas >r twenty minutes ti.’o f ?-ed m«tbe. P°sltl0° Just mentioned, upon the side of the bed ie urine^ceased.J 1 e feellDg°f weight m the pelvis diminished, and the desire to void ZT 1nthrrb in itS “"'."'Plated state, occurs iver (rrent diffi? u • • J" the former case> n produces violent pain, iffltoTJf SJir S t K mr and stoolsi in latter, the i lie walks the g.- unn,e and stools is less. The patient has, when rgencWo voidThc nr-1 * lf, a >iarfl body fell upon the bladder, causing es on her back Them’ "ii"0 ' >0<.,y.,a"ain falls back wlien the patient Tl,ence t,ie P°ss,bility of confounding this condition j JlnburB,‘ Monthly Journal^Memra^d^nc^ Jan- 1842 < and London and L 2148 CURVATURES. with that of a stone in the bladder («). rhoidal affections, severe pain in ‘1,e,.bnf f’ fffr'““nted. In eiami. and' frequently‘so high that it <»“ W fl loose connexion of the worn 'vf deliverY continual costiveness, organic folds, too early getting up after y, u f various kinds, changes in the base of womb is easy. With 1322. The restoration of the nat 1 ? to bg attempted to bring down two fingers introduced into the vag , t above the share-bones, the mouth of the womb, whilst ^ ards. The patient the base of the womb is to be pi es back a bandage should be applied must continue a long while up insufficient to keep | round the belly, close above he£“ pessary. If .he the womb in its place it must be supp t d with the knife, and its vaginal portion be adherent, it; may be while (c). reunion prevented, by a spong p ^ whatever; it is thrust into the [“ The pessary in this case, says Gbat, and by the presence of the ano-perimcal region, already rendered foreign body, excites the same sensation, and dislodged womb, and there, as y b tbe WOmb had done, and generally, keeps up the same irritation and discharges wmcn character ; whereas the STay readily be supposed, the ^ ter<) by pressing the ano- new instrument of Dr Huxl, (his uteK“oses thePPde8Cent of the womb, and perimeal reg'on/Py^pftueincapaci4 of this region, whilst the hypogastric support.of the a^aratus prevents the descent of the abdominal viscera into the pelvi . (p. - t | i | , i tii E.—OF CURVATURES. 1323. Curvatures ( Curv<of^certain^aS of our body from Lures, Fr.) are remarkable devjrtum^certain bending in t e S„“ro1 then1 bending and distortion in the ne| genital; or they a„se later “ completely displaced at the. The bones are not dt.tded as in fracture, Jcllrvature, if the JO® * “bsorptio'”or "Z by ^fxhe erect posture of ourtad,b and ^jSS 7S W Fmuenz - «*•"*** r«s»: Handbuch n.r Mcnntniss und Heilung d ,nUcht*hwanger<m Ztisunde ; m .ndmmerkranklielten. Second Edit, ran Jourlullt vol. xvn. pt. i.149 CAUSES. 1326. The antagonism of muscles is disturbed when either one part possesses an absolute excess of activity above the other, or when one part is so weakened, that it opposes no obstacle to the natural activity of the other. This may be effected by palsy, wounds, weakness of the nuscles, continued rest of certain muscles, tonic spasm, ordinary exertion of | certain parts, especially in particular positions, by which they are weaxied, * ‘specially in children still under development, by diseased changes in the nuscles, as from gout, rheumatism, inflammation, ulceration, ossification, md so on. The activity of the flexor muscles naturally, especially in the (I’tus, exceeds that of the extensors; hence also the gxeater number of congenital and original curvatures arise in the course of the flexors. 1327. The muscles which produce the curvature, suffer always a more >r less considerable degree of contraction and shortening, so that they are ■apable only of little extension, or of none at all. In long continuance of Ins condition, various changes occur in the tissue of the muscles, they ■ose their fulness, become thinner, even cord-like, and at last are converted :ito a fibro-cellular, or fatty mass (1). Whatever be the causes which ave pioduced the contraction of the muscles, these changes are always the , ame, and their common origin lies in the continual rest, in which such nuscles are found. Muscles, and, through them, their tendons and aponeu- oses, must be kept in their constant and proper motion and activity if leir vitality and organization is to remain natural, and a harmonious rela- on to exist between the voluntary influence which depends on the brain id the irritability which originates in the spinal marrow. If the activity , a,mUKCli befdamaSed by one of the above-mentioned causes, and the r„L7i flP m consla"t.re,s‘. il gradually diminishes, and at last all duntary influence over it is lost, and its irritability and tone increase uxespondentiy; by longer continuance of this condition, the tissue li thP UP’ bfCOm.f anyiel(?in&>18 to a certain degree atrophied, according ( the same law that the intestine below an artificial anus, or a vessel aC Zl^TlZlTk ’ S,',riVf U?’ P-0"15 t0Sether. and at last . . 7* / ie rest a muscle, when its contraction has once taken t eent1Sfli heref°re-rnIinUa1’ beCaUSe a11 voIuntaiT motions which the ■t ent attempts with the curved part, can occur only in such one wav itoTh^infof th6by n°t °at!,tretchi1n° and extension, but only I servLinn of il g V ?ontracted muscles, can be effected. A close I 7eoiaI,5r in the »• luenep Lri . , ear> that under such circumstances, the nervous B ninution of the'liervous S bC dimW?hed in th« muscles, and the hough the contraction „f H T1 mC.rea<ie U)' t0 aclual !>*%, plained the rSShv i n In this a‘so U s or diminution ,fn ^ pa ^ wuch originates from the brain, and influe,,ce depen<,i"s «■* y are lax and S I’ S™ P“ ^ prTfeCl"« from tllc sPb>al marrow k or byactivftv of,’,r0<IUCe,d by topical «““« ™ ‘>>0 muscle contraction of the muscfes and of'tT narm"’ mal be the first origin ■ ‘he continued «£7(!f ,he 0?rvature ‘hereon depending; onsequence of continual snasm l 7’ll0 6 IS n.ot t0 l ie considered as stasis ■a«'ed quiet 5tate. The A150 CU11V ATUKES. the bearings of the limb, if its natural the recapability of motion, ami t he'»oht my ■nfluene XS.” • 4EE ", after the cure of “ ttaseare• “S“atura, eonnerion of = "sfSSSXtl osteomalacy, scrofula, venerraJ. ca exposed to the action puration, and so on. The softened bones are P force acting of the muscles, and drawn accord,mgomve them; bom upon them ; or the weight of yf tlv happen in the trunk anti which latter cause such curvings most frequently nat i the bones of the lower extremities occur at the same time, and Frequently do the just-descr d most commonly arise out in inverse proportions ; the curving , of unnatural activity of the m^cies ^ ndg on their extent 1329. As to the prognosis of cu > ^ fer the causes ongi- and how long the curvature has exsted,m ^ ^ and the less the nating them may be got rid ol. i-i J b prognosis. In older curvature, so much the more avoir treatment is always protracted, . subjects, and long-continued curvatu ’ ation of the disease can be and in many cases, often on y < so organic changes of the- prevented. When in L the disease is incurable, bones, destruction, anchylosis, an<J s° ° Uoi generally allow a better Curvatures depending on of the" bones. But if prognosis than those horn c nn , b i continUed curvature that their» the muscles have become so wasted y S difficult to determine, lengthening can be of no use, which is thev are incurable. , removal of the causes, and 1330. The cure of curvatures d®P , the curved parts. When the the restoration of the natural ire remedies must be employed as firmness of the bone. is. alteic , the special diseases which therapeutics have pointed °f Jb^esDtocrether with the simultaneous cause the changed coherence of bones “ b which the straight employment of is entirely ifTht dfseS state of the bony system be not removed; d ui. V lf the origin of the curvature depend on UV' ld according iSSr -edt^to the to the different causes. Usual y rubffing suppus rubbings into the shortened and contracted muscles, hut from ** stretched and lengthened muscles aie the motion and extensw KflS SSS arise* -ivity of tbe nerv* 11 i. i 11 ii i t it - i el r I („) Gaiettc Mcdicalt!. April, 183S. No. 14-TREATMENT. 151 motion is accompanied with a certain degree of curvature and wasting so may sharp irritants, vesicatories, and even moxas, act beneficially’ in quickening and increasing the vitality, which remedies are especially indicated in actual palsy. In reference to this object, kneading, rubbing and stretching the muscles, are very serviceable;' but above all, suitable gymnastics, (with careful regard to the somewhat necessary improvement of the general state of health,) as first introduced by Delpech (a) Slighter degrees of curvature may be got rid of by these remedies alone but it the curvature be greater, they must be accompanied with the appli- cation of suitable machines and apparatus. 1 * * * * 1332. If with long-continued curvature from shortening of the muscles such change of their tissue have been produced, that by the treatment proposed it can be removed either with extreme difficulty, or not at all the subcutaneous cutting through the shortened muscles, or their tendons and aponeuroses, (myotomia, tenotomia,) if possible, is the most proper remedy. Between the two ends of the divided tendon which retract the upper more strongly than the lower, blood is effused, which coagulates and unites with the whole internal surface of the wound, and especially with the ends of the tendon. Exudations of plastic lymph soon occur particularly from the ends of the tendon, presenting whitish thread-like streaks, running from one to the other, and gradually form a mass resembling fibrous tissue, which is capable of due extension, and suffi ciently strong to answer the function of the muscles. This operation is thereto S'A. U"der. the ^-^ioned conditio^ if there do not at the same time exist such considerable chances in the the causes giving rise to the contraction, gout for instance’ stil . I as observed in every scar as well .c.“«vviy ioimeci inter’substance, and motions of the part from ev, the natural direction i exfoliation of tendons and sn n +x uescraCblon ot the cellular tissue, ili Peculiar relations oftheconstLtXnFtl B aSOTibed rather to ” !" the operation and the after-treatment* ttZZthf I rhe straightening of the part anrl ♦ u- I , °Peratlon itself, ^apparatus, is most nronerlv nn sti etching of the tendons by proper l cut through, X„ Ptl?n , rn”1 -°T ^ after they Wve bee,, ■bandage covering the cart keen! ^°und ,s llealed, to which time a light I*uf extension immediate,' after th Pr0Per position. The employment I of the the two hn- Too late use of extensimF Jtf ’ l d.bad symPtoms may be brought | :rained fi™ness, renders the lengthen^ diffioX™6^?6 Substance has a ‘ The division of shortened muscles^ n i * ltj aiK GVen lmpossible. (n) lie l'Orthomorphie par rapport r - , ^ emPloyed on the m. sterno- e par rapport a 1 espece humaine, &e. 1828. Paris and Montpe.lier, 2 vols. J 1152 WRY NECK. cleido mastoideus in wry neck, (Roonhcysen, Mf.eckrf.n, Ten Haaf, and others,) and then forgotten; again revived by Sharp, by Tilesius, and Sartoriijs, upon the Achilles’ tendon in club-foot, by Michaelis extended to other tendons also, were subsequently little thought of, and. only employed in certain cases of contraction, by Dupuytren and Dieffenbach in wry neck, and by Delpech employed in horse-foot as a subcutaneous division. But more recently, it has been first brought into practice as a subcutaneous division by the large experience and observation of Stromeyer ; and by Dieffenbach, Stoss, Duval, Scoutf.tten, Bouvier, Pauli, myself, and many others has it been variously practised and extended to different muscles, as more attention has been paid to the special treatment of curvatures. The mode of cure of tendons thus divided, Delpech formerly, and in modern times more especially, von Ammon (a), Duval, Bouvier, and others (b), have explained by experiments on brutes. I.—OF WRY NECK. ( Caput obstipum, Cervix obstipa, Obstipas, Torticollis, Lat.; schiefe Hals, Germ.; Torticolis, Obstipite, Fr.) Mauchart, Dissert, sistens caput obstipum. Tubing., 1737. Rettig, H. X., Dissert, sistens caput obstipum. Bud®, 1783. 8vo. Gruve, G., Dissert, de capite obstipo. Traj. ad Rh., 1786. 4to. Clossius, C. F., Ueber die Krankheiten der Kuochen. Tubing., 1798, p. 254. Richter, Anfangsgriinde, vol. iv. p. 256. Jorg, J. C. G., Ueber die Verkriimmungen des menschlichen Korpersund eine rationelle und sichere Heilart der selben. Leipz., 1816 ; with six plates. Stromeyer, L., Beitr'age zur operativen Orthopaedic. Hannover, 1838. Phillips, Benjamin, Lectures on Surgery; in London Medical Gazette, vol. xxvi. p. 244. 1840. Dieffenbach, Die Durchschneidung der Sehnen und Muskeln. Berl., 1841, p. 17; with twenty lithographed plates. Phillips, Ch., M.D., De la Tenotomie sous-cutane'e, ou des Operations qui se pra- tiquent pour la Guerison des Pieds-bots, Torticollis, &c. Pai’is, 1841. 8vo. Bonnet, A., Traite des Sections tendineuses et musculaires, etc. Paris, et Lyons, . 1841, p. 581. 1333. Wry Neck consists in such distortion of the neck, that the head 1 is inclined forwards, aside, downwards, frequently even to the shoulder; ; and the face turned more or less to the opposite side, and at the same time forwards and upwards; the chin raised proportionally higher, as the head 1 is in a greater degree drawn down. The patient can, under these circum- - stances, move the head either not at all, or only in a slight degree; often i can it be done only by the assistance of another, and frequently it is not t in any way possible. This disease may originate in an irregular activity of : the muscles of the neck, especially of the m. sterno-mastoideus, in a large: unsightly scar, or in a distortion of the neck itself. TV hen long continued, there is always dissimilarity in the two sides of the face. Distortion of the neck, as consequent on inflammation and suppuration of the joint- surfaces of the vertebra: of the neck, has been already considered (par. 263.) 1334. The most frequent cause of wry neck is unnatural muscular activity. It is either congenital and depends on irregular position of the child in the womb (1) ; or it arises from violence during delivery, which affects the rn. sterno-mastoideus (2) ; or it comes on later from the habit always hanging the head to one side, especially in children, if they be constantly carried on one arm ; if, on account of the continuance of any (aI De physiologic tenatomim experiment^ der Achilles’seline alsi Operaliv-ortliopldisdira illurtrat. Dresden,°?837. Heilmittel. Dorpa.,lS« ; w.th seven copper \.b) Pikoooff, N., Ueber die Durclisclmeidung plates. 4to. ■■■ " 111CAUSES. 153 tpain in the neck it be inclined to one side (3), by spasm and organic ; change in the structure of the m. sterno-mastoideus. If the cause lie in the (unnatural activity of this muscle, it is always found, on the side to which the head is drawn, stretched like a cord, hard and unyielding ; in attempt- ing to bring the head into its proper position, the muscle becomes more 'tense and prevents it (4). It is really only the m. sterno-mastoideus which is primarily shortened, and most commonly on the right side; rarely, also, the in. cleido-mastoideus and cucullus ; the m. platysma myoides, may also be shortened. Frequently is the m. sterno-mastoideus of one side palsied and the natural contraction of that of the other draws down the head! iln this case the dissimilarity of the two sides of the face and the distor- tion of the features are not so great, as in wry neck from unnatural muscular contraction ; the head is drawn only towards the shoulder but the chin is not raised (5). That the cause of the evil is in the bones is known, when no change can be observed in the muscles, and the general symptoms of softening of bone be present. The head is also usually nore movable than in the former cases (6). (1) Stromeyer (a) remarks on the coincidence of congenital shortening of the «. sterno-mastoideus with the irregular position of the child, so that a breech-birth takes dace, or turning is necessary. (2) After difficult delivery, and after the application of forceps, a little round bluish lougny swelling above the collar-bone, corresponding to the course of the m sterno- lasloideus, is frequently observed, which, after subsiding, leaves to be felt a hard )ieffexb^hC)’ dependlns 0n partial or comPlete tearing of the muscle (Stromeyer, (3) I have noticed a wry neck which arose from the application of a blister behind ae ear, and in a short time became considerable. [(4) Although generally in wry neck the muscle or muscles causing it are felt con- acted like a cord, yet this is not always so. Syme (6) mentions an instance of this “d % o7 Wlt ‘lateral curvature. “ Observing that his head inclined to one side I amin?d ,t l(r. sterno-mastcid, and found it, not tense and rigid as I had exnected but >ft and yielding. I perceived, however, that when an attempt was made to toe fthe e^lS^S.?611 and b6Came tenS6’ and therefore concluded that it was the seat (o) Brodie mentions (c) a remarkable example of wry neck alternating w5tb isamty, among the instances he gives of persons “ labouring imder some diseased the toed during the whoto of the £oauf *2 1“sa“,t? ! and ia this she con- e disordered condition of her mind and t'he At th<3 °f thls Period she recovered of -that period up to the time of my being c g upon miwcXr^o^ctira^the tostort^™ a?ainst mistaking for wry neck depend- rics between the kead \hich proceeds from ^ *n y°UDg to a cearSsrodbseS “) On°booitPd’d).131' wt* "-** *» > *■ trattve of certmn Local Nervous Affections. London, 1837. 8vo.WRY NECK. 154 confounded with it, leads to treatment not only useless, but extremely dangerous, (p. 273.)] 1335. The prognosis in wry neck depends especially on the cause and J duration of the ailment. In young persons, if the cause bes in.the! musees,. the nroqnosis is always favourable; and tins applies also, under similar condSs from curvature of the bones. But, if by long continuance of the ailment the vertebra; of the neck have undergone a change of form, J or have become united by adhesion, which may be ascertain^ by careful examination with the fingers, and simultaneous movement of the neck, the “'S "tSZHoi wry neck varies according to its causes. If dependent unnatural activity of the muscles, it must be attempted to relax the contracted m. sterno-masloideus, by rubbing in suppling remedies, as. well a” C exciting contraction of the relaxed muse es on the other welf as by^ exciii. grubbings of aromatic spirit, arrack, rum, he ev^by^he employment of electricity or galvanism.,. After rubbXgmust beVade to stretch the shortened m sterno-mastoideus, and at the same time to bring; the^ head A ^ which manipulation must be continued for a quarte j straight, various grains - rafus^iaj^e worn^lay ^however heldi some hours in the day) ^ tlrfgkg*- rt—fs I strethiag ^itsrwrenTn bed and dlawing the head by means of a loop fastened. 40 f3e37 Xtff when ttedtt tie already existed for some time k. treatment impossible. 1 he reasons wmcn na untenable; tbr with little pain, and the ® isP;S, eve" afterdie dislas’e has existed twelve or sixteen years, or etc longer. , a r,»„v l> N.. Traitc des Bandages et Appa- (,,) ,kiu)y, 1 . > jjvo. et atlas rf»il« de Pansement. inns, *o«» , . 4to.—VON Fbojmkp’s Kupfertafeln, pi. clxix. (/|) Alwve cited, pi. ii. (c) Orthomorphie, vol. n. P-155 TREATMENT. Koonhuysen (cr) and Ten IIaaf (,b) cut through the m. stemo-mastoideus from without inwards, with a fold of the skin raised. Von Meeckren (c) effected the division with a pair of scissors; Minnius (d) first destroyed the skin over the muscle with caustic, and then cut it through with scissors. Sharp (e) made a transverse-' cut through the skin, and divided the muscle from within outwards with a knife introduced behind it. This treatment was recommended by all the later writers, till Dupuytren and Dieffenbach (f) proposed the subcutaneous division of the muscle, in which manner the operation has been performed with the most successful results, by many Surgeons and by myself. 1338. The subcutaneous division of the m. stemo-mastoideus is per- formed in the following manner. The patient sitting on a stool, one assistant draws the head to the opposite side, and another pulls down the shoulder of the ailing side, in consequence of which the muscle projects strongly at its shortest part. The skin above it is then taken hold of with the thumb and forefinger of the left hand, well drawn away from the parts beneath, and a narrow, slightly convex, straight knife, held flat, is to be thrust an inch or two above its lower insertion, through the skin, and carried close behind the muscle, to the other side beneath the skin, but without piercing the latter. The edge is then turned towards the muscle, and the thumb of the left hand being placed on the muscle, to fix it against the edge, the muscle is divided, without cutting the skin, in drawing out the knife. At the commencement of the division of the muscle, a dull and sometimes tolerably loud crack is heard, upon which the head is often immediately drawn straight by the contraction of the m. stemo-mastoideus on the other side; but sometimes the old position is retained, and even more strongly. At the moment when the knife is drawn back, if pressure be made with the thumb upon the part divided, and no blood be poured out beneath the skin, a firm compress of lint is to be applied and fastened with sticking plaster, and a bandage carried obliquely over the neck and breast. Two cloths carried round are sufficient to support the head; they do not, however, keep it straight, but leave it in its early oblique position. cnap. xxxv. (J) Rust’s llandbuch der Chirurgie,—Art, Co- lt iibstipum. (t/) Above cited, pi. viii. f. 1,2.156 TREATMENT OF WRY NECK. division must be effected with a straight or convex narrow bistoury, or with Stromeyer’s instrument, according to the rules given above. 1340. If the patient be kept quiet, in the horizontal posture bed, and on antiphlogistic diet, generally no further symptoms occur. After some days the external wound is healed. The muscle, at the place of its division usually presents a slight swelling; frequently also a slight fluctuation ofbfood is felt, in which case, according to Dieffenbach, sticking plaster should be applied anew somewhat tighter, in order to promote its absorption, which is usually effected in a few days ^pplica. tions of warm lead wash, and rubbing in warm oil to get rid of the last tension Ire generally superfluous. If pus be formed, it must be discharged bv a Puncture, and the wound treated simply. A pasteboard cravat of half the usual height, folded in a cloth, and applied on the side of the Mon is according to Dieffenbach, more serviceable in preserving theltraight posture ?f the head than all violent extens.on. on whteh po.n. I, from experience, entirely agree with him. f Stromeyer (a) "operation wMch^can be Attained, because position to obtain all the advantag Pf ^ ueck be completely extended, and ilAs only^p°sribTe°Jo^tretc^r^e head twards^he^se^ed^su^for^ep^rpose^of giving the extension directly aftei the °Pei a ’ - f tl eck be again given, and com- If after perfect replacement the feest motion of the “ ^me’cases> that plete similarity of the sides ot the ace . Y . tbe )lead is somewhat disposed it the moment when the is leSS‘ StK°1= useoTthe^tret^ing apparatus,"some time after the subsidence of all resistance. j " 1341 If the cause of wry neck be spasm of the m sterno-cleido mas- pamed with ^“ Itin/it must be inquired whether or not any nerves and often. t which the treatment should be directed, mrnmmM r^tC but also the painful and spasmodic affect,ons are removed Compare the interesting observations hereto belonging o trometeh ATspamSic affection ot the .. 1342 Tf large scars be the cause of wry neck, their mere d>™°“ wmrnimm (n) Above citul.^p. and Practical Remark* in 25 ^ReMltolfBeccmber, 1834, 829. vol. U. p. 83. Norwich, lift* ^urg«*7'CURVATURE OF THE SPINE. 157 direction may be often given to the head, by suppling remedies which are to be rubbed in, and by the bandages prescribed. 1343. Tf the cause of the wry neck be in a bending of the neck-vertebra;, and if it be unaccompanied with anchylosis, or change of structure the above-mentioned apparatus must be used for the gradual straightening of the head. II.—OF CURVATURES OF THE SPINAL COLUMN. (Incurvationes seu Distortiones Columna Vertehralis, Lat.; Verhrummungen der Riick- ensdule, Germ. ; Courbures de la Colonne vertebrale, Fr.) Coopman, G., Dissert, de Cyphosi. Franeq., 1770. 4to. ^ts^sTmo FE8DvToRIE’ Trah® dU RaIdtiS’ °U 1>art de redresser les enfants con- Fr^cof7n7SDi 41?' de 6fficacitate eibbositatis ^ mutandis vasorum directionibus. Venel, Description de plusieurs nouveaux moyens mecaniques propres a prevenir dosmeTaus°annge!ri 788S IT* ™ ** Courbures late'rales et la Torsion de l’Epine du a Roy, C. H., Commentatio anatomico-chirurgica de scoliosi. Ludg., 1774. 41o. Wedel, G. W., Dissert, de gibbere. Jen., 1781. 4to. van Gesscher, D Bemerkungen liber die Einstellungen des Riicherathes „„d Jber die Behandlnng der Verrenkungen und Briiche des Schenkelbeines. gTranslated nto German from the Dutch, by J. C. Wemeyer. Gottingen, 1794. 8vo. Sheldrake, T„ Essay on the various Causes and Effects of the Distorted Sni™ »o.h. improper methods usually practised remove the distortS,dS,”'783 ip?ne.''K?9o. *»<i Philosophical Essays ou the Distortion of the 'mentis confirmatd! *Gr^ing^nsf^s'vo61 sanatlone’ observatione et propriis expe- nd lead Pr3CtiCal 0bse"ati“» •» Distortions of the Spine, Chest, and Limbs. Lon- Feiler, J., De spinse dorsi inourvationibus earumque cnratione. Noremb 1807 Jorg, above cited. ’ ou/- na „„„ • Lipsise, 1818— ' ^Chouland, J. L„ De cas pelvium spinarumque deformatarum, i. ii. mTpS C” Ueber die Krankheiten am Ruchgrathe. Bamberg, 1824. fol. • with nd^he^Bones^f the She^^e^ub^wt^^Lradon,0!823. to which the Spine T p ° xo^o. ovo ad on the 8C™,ure of ,h« SP™, . . _ J-tuuuon, 1S25. 8vo. I Dcjfour, Memoire sur UA 8 ar° SubJeCt‘ 1824- fob I ztrL”°"d frthopt!die;" “wdicTfib.^sf ““ ^ X* 0rthop'!di<i ** “r ,cs aammungen am mi.SJnfibiM'chanik zur dor Ver-158 CUUVATUIJE OF THE SPINE, 71,,..,, T t a Treatise on Deformities, exhibiting a concise view of the principal Beale, Li. J., A 11cause ^ hie. illustrated with plates, distortions and contractions ot the limbs, joints, auu op , Loudon, 1830. 8vo. oudon, 183U. evo. _. „ .• „ *i,„ Stafford, A., A Treatise on the Injuries, the Diseases, and the Distortions Spine. London, 1832. 8vo. . „ Maisonabe, C. A., Orthopedie cliniqne sur les Difformites dans 1 espece IIu,name. Paris, 1834. 2 vols. 8vo. & Let iris, 1834. 2 vols. bvo. . , depSeide eighteen plates. Guerin ; in Gazette Medicale, vo Difformitds du Systeme osseux ou d'em- * traitement de ees maladies. Paris, 1835. 8vo. Atlas of 174 Plates, pi. iv. PaueiF. Ueher den grauen Staar und die Verkrummungen. Stuttg., 1838. 8vo. , of t,“ids ESST ? Gibbus, Cyp hosts), tntta,ine t l directions, but always in - - f, sd “n “edT th? r,nS\“ny, : position variously altered, and oi l} , intestine? are often so SESST-rf'*: This opinion, advanced by WTtatod by’«■>'<»> consequence of careful observatio , without anv general disease of the bones, • and Cboulaht (.) in so fen as ttoy of plhi$, only ,l». a decided influence of the cui vature P 1?d from youth, it is more decided, in general disease, or, it the curv , ^as foul. natural curves, (at the neck i According to their view, as the spinal1 colai ^ ^ ]oins conv(jX forwards,and on convex forwards, at the back c°nYf?incases where the natural curve increases at any ' the rump-bone convex backwards,) L pressed * iust as, on the contrary, one spot the other natural curves should also be me, parts of the spine also have1 ftrir'natura^cui^^sume'a°^°ntra^yt^®^0^ jatera^curvature*the side. See also on this subject Eokitansky {d). ■ V 1,produces? 1345. The inclination of the spinal column to h^.’her than at first a different condition of the shoulders, ad <>nebecohh,b the other ; the body »j the one side of the back is full, tbe ot ,1j,1_|1011e, is observetl a small fol^of^the'^gument, which increases proportionaUy as the •4t" , .7 MrntEi 1 F. Ilandbuch der mensclilinhen Anatomie^'vol? H. p. 740. Wsnzel, above dted, p. 9. '((,) Above cited, p- 8--6. (<:) Above cited, p. lo- ,j\ HoitrS.re xur Kenntniss der kruminungen, und der mit and treffenden Abweichungcn des BmstKor u Heckens ; in Oester-Med. Jahrbuchern, vol. pt.. i. ii.159 ITS KINDS. the spine increases. With such increased inclination toward the side, distortion of the spine also occurs ; the spinous processes are twisted toward the side of the inclination. The whole trunk is gradually bent, the ribs follow the distortion of the spine, are flatter on their concave surface, but upon their convex hinder surface are more strongly arched, are very widely separated from each other, and broader, whence a pro- jection backwards is produced. The breast-bone is mostly oblique, and drawn towards the concave side of the curvature. If the curvature be at the upper part of the spine, the position of the shoulder-blades is much changed. Curvatures at the lower part of the spine affect the carriage of he body less than at the upper. Lastly, curvatures are produced in jpposite directions, in which case one is, as it were, equalized by the )ther. In the highest degree the direction of the bones of the pelvis is ihanged, the one hip-bone stands higher than the other, and, under the iircgjnastances mentioned, (par. 1344,) the promontory of the rump-bone nay project inwards towards the one or other side, and narrow the entrance >f the pelvis. The higher position of one shoulder is always present in scoliosis, but it occurs alone .nd without simultaneous curving of the spinal.1 column, as high shoulder (Humerus Raising u shoulder, usually the right, by which the elevating muscles of he shoulder-blade become gradually stronger, is the result of bad habit ; the lower ngle of the blade-bone is raised higher than that of the other side; the'hinder edge h°pWTnr’l 1 m a0"6 m th,e,Same P°sition’ and only after long continuance does he shoulder-blade project especially at its angle. If both shoulders be high, which ceurs from bad carriage, as a consequence of corresponding straining of both arms in Sef and'Z L^- S’ m short-siShted and old persons, the bac^ is considerably rched, and the head in the same proportion projecting. In a higher degree always t the same time, some inclination of the spinal column occurs. y ’ L The most common cause of a high shoulder is to be found in the abominable practice f undressing g.rl’s necks, as low as the hanging on of their clXs will C n fi the Sh0Ulder'StrapS of, their dress being, as they should be, fairly above the >ot of the acromial processes, they often, indeed most commonly, either only skirt the f processes, and rest on the rounded upper part of the deltoid muscles re actually fai down on the arms; in consequence of which the dress In vino- linn tend curvatureof 1theTviZ f,?u* to the sa“® side, and thus a irpose of uncovering her neck and shonldprc ac^f ,S Suie sP01ied, for the simple cency, as for the preservation of the i • i j*>S ?S C3? as Possll)le> which, as well for rentehavebeen / CAllds h?alth’ ought to be covered. Many jrious consequences • and thJrffi 86 °f their dauShter’s distortion, if not of more P ‘heir shoulder out of their dress’ mo^e^ffdWhi° hfye, tlie least disposition to ssibility of keeping up this habit l.’vhnvirJtni Care sh?uld be taken to prevent the wn, and then the fensation of £ “ad? s°high’ that it cannot slip eh up her shoulder, and by a little attention*? h°St’the ° " d n? loDSer continues to ‘ of long standing, may be got rfd of-J f! S ] Pr°Pei' CamaSe’ the m>schief, if 'l.ighefde^e‘Stncl^ fheSt and b<% 'piously displaced by * blood in the lunos is hindered j?Ssetl"enoe.of 'vhlol> the circulation of )&:J« te = e bod160 CURVATURE OF THE SPINE, and, » they drop together, the noetn^i head of the p^ent .nd.M f I ^ ^ ^ observed, except after very and is always increasing ; it projects - the inclination of the spine l ema ^ ^ aQ le jf the cyphosis be in the into a blunt, and subsequen . swallowing are especially affected; if the vertebra of the neck, breat ung a" lengthened forwards, the brealt- vertebra of the the chest lessened, from which bone raised, and the trans dropping of the spine, the bowels • difficulty of breathing ensues. By the drop? g ^ difficulties in a,e driven down -to tshr?lk in5ft high degree of the digestion. [ be fixed by anchylosis in their unnatural position, disease, and they maj be nxe y ^ game time> accompany cyphpM 'tr'nL1"- *he c„„l depends o„ ~~.of.he (Port the spine. The vertebra project iurve. Whence processes are thereby appi °ache o 1 attain so great an extent as the follows, that the lordosis c touch. It occurs always in the cyphosis, because the sp1'1’1 ? convenienCes they excite are those of the fSd billy 6 very rarely, in the vertebrl oi <- . applies also to that o e sp th of tpe bones. The occasional > of the muscles, or. dl“X"*} '1 e various inclinations of the spine are:- ; causes which especially parriap-e of the body in various employments First. In scoliosis, careless carnag I in the hand-work o hanging on one side in ^ habit of doing everything wit! ladies, increased exertmn of one sid^en Qn one arm> which acts vert one hand, constant y can5 ? . more raised and pressed than t t prejudicially, as cue ^ ”°ore prejudicially do the above other. The younger the patient ts the^m. J ^ corvatnre depend « mentioned causes they are more firm and contracted on thi concIveasidfof the ^ivat^Te^^end "rather on at Sd^.Ste'ff to bines, the difference of the muscles ,s not. remarkable (1). . f the most part, is in the bones, Second. In cyphosis the cause. increase the bending backward J Pio-ht of the body itself is sufficient t cuvhosis most con . weight of the body itself is “““J? bare the cyphosis most con a’a&isssw.«- - - and old persons. natural state, the external muscles oft the internal 5 Lordosis is therefore more ftc„uen | men than in womenITS KINDS. 161 (1) Stromeyer (a) supposes that scoliosis arises, if not in all, at least in most cases rom one-sided palsy of the inspiratory muscle, viz., the m. serratus magnus. The muscle’ lthough still capable of voluntary motions, takes no part in those of breathing, which is specially observable if the motions of the diaphragm be restrained by pressure on the •elly. and the external muscles of inspiration be excited to increased activity • as then lie muscles of the palsied side remain quite quiet. This imperfect palsy is derived from he palsy of Bell's respiratory system, from an incapacity of the affected nerves pro- eeding from the periphery to reexcite reflected irritation, in which case they still obey ae stronger stimulus proceeding from the will. The greater number of cases produced i support of this opinion, permit also another explanation, and, according to what has een already said upon the aetiology of curvatures in general, is this state of palsy of le.“l's''es °f ^ration to be considered, not as a primary, but as a secondary state. According to Gunthers (6) observations, in snake-like scoliosis the muscles neither f the concave °.r convex side are much wasted, nor are they changed in form, although ,so aPPeai!s “ lonS f the7 "e attached to the body. They are only either stretched ::rffi°Ver the P:rCiTf/.°r f0lded when £ the concavities. On the mtrary, there appears a decided difference in the strength and weight of the corre- S^et>.0f tf'e two sides, and that muscle increases which has an unfavourable isition, and is therefore required to act with more power. So, for instance the m 'cullans of the concave side exceeds that of the convex about 90 grs. in a weight of ro lb lat\ss.l.mus d°rsl of the convex that of the other side about 120 Irs. in grs. If the relations of one muscle be so disproportionate that, in its natural aCt U0! at 3l1’ °r irregulariy. circumstances change, so that detaches itself from some places, attaches itself to others more suitable, or forms new [According to Zink’s opinion (c) scoliosis generally commences from the fifth to the ?hth year of age, and between the third and fifth dorsal vertebra, and thedeviation is iiiiisilSs i the muscles of respiration on that side are in a state “ ' 1 1 °™ce> it of the left. I have also ascertained that the convexity of the deviftfon*^fe^Ceed!ng lords exactly with the insertion of those muscles which me most ae fl ft, 6 Spme respiration. This deviation from the perpendicular sn S 5 ln tf!e Process I often overlooked, and the inferior and UP m t ie sPlnal column, i «b»r„,ewuofte«^ fde in the condition of lateral currature cer- a ooservation, I should savnnt i nave rauen within my >rded by the division of a muscle antH™™^’ ln whlTch comPlete relief may be ending upon wry neck, caused by contraction of the ^t 1 allude spinal curvature •le to contraction both spasm^S^SSmt ™s muscle is e seen, affect the shape ofthe snineind;^? ' The former does not> so far as I he operation. But thelatterTs apt toProduce ^ ^ division> did not yield - >* remedied »i,h no lent “ShiffiS rf&l°urlUT in re^d *» Chair cause!”is I®*e» disturbed digestion disturbed[esultlng from previous which gradually ?he joints of S • 1 dev,eIopment, and the like, ‘ Jequate strength of the lie-aments ^ ®ft to the unaided and :] *les, pain, and weariness ofThe snin^^^n 2- by weakness of the ,) Uew Pani , , P ’ ^ ^ every move- icL> aralyse der Inspirationsmu«lrni« ✓ n j) t> A 7 cuter ever 1 :Vp’ 4>- araIySC dCr InSpirati0nSmU3licln. (O ■Verhandl derK K Ge.ellschaft ,A" 9 Mittheilungen, 1836, pt. ix. p. In. ?'-> Wien, 1842-43 : and OL. II. (.<0 Above cited. — . ien 1840^5' .* i "’£3i:‘.ls,cnaIC der Aerzte as- xjssfatrMsn MCURVATURE OF THE SPINE. 162 I 1 men., dropping of the spine to W mobility of the spine; sotha , °” “ down the deformities disappear,; body, alterations appeal , ' , .|d;(,ngwho are very stout, and have a larg. they be not very great. Ii weight of their body, and espt head, whose muscles are oo we< ^ a at tbe tjme when they shoul cially of their head, ^' and when sitting, a great droppin A begin to walk, incapability ot so B> g . ctg backwards in a larg i eur"”; ’Inlytag down, tMs is diminished but, with eare.essness, it beeom, 1 permanent, and always more cons« era. been considered 1 i 1351. TheswellmgofthefibroiMmterc^^^ it proceeds general Delpech (a) ™ in various degrees, or all may be from one point to all t sometimes severe, sometimes slig. once attacked. In the formertLspine which consequently is defonm pain occurs at any one par I th p » definite and precise place: t This pain has not, however, a y manner, frequently on o patient points out the seat of par o epiqastrium. A curvatv or other side of the body, frequently^at the epycu * ^ ^ cur appears, which, at first, is me 1 demined by the greater or 1 The direction of the metmauo cartilages have obtained at any < thickness which one or sev®™J b arise curvatures backwards, forwar; part of their extent. Henc y ^ exigt at the same time, and especially sideways. If a co 1 long-continued pain instance, a too short lower limb, a A the directioi forcibly-continued position and ,t\.yj and even transitory r : the inclination. This is at hn , » Uzontal posture, in the morni < subsides, at least partially, j as tbe principal functions, ea i immediately on getting up, ‘ satisfactorily. The curvature extend: J cially digestion, are carried disappear in the homo I the neighbouring vertebral. d Qn the hands, whilst the pn posture, and when the bo ^ P,L these successive curvatures becc . tive curves still exist. ^1 , . ,, experiments just mention 9 permanent, and no forger® are rendered difficult by the curvatu .' Sometimes walking and btand S , keep himself upright, ana the patient resorts to parWa“ Phe opposite direction, a short time, new deformities are observea n Ft new cu the purpose of restoring the equilibrium > curvatures foni tures'inay also subsequentlyregular arcl least before they are yet ve> y , . tila es all at once, (cases v If the swelling attack the fibrous mtercar^d^ weakly perse have been noticed ^ St always seeks a res,-; and oppression of thei chest, wh . and i„ the most sir j avoids bending hmi. > accompanied with pam, J and shortest walks, has frequefn/^%^°of which the patient <* j ceases as quickly as it ca“e ’ . t ssure be made successively o Pdn -1S eXCUed ^ spillOl - 1 (0) Ortliomorpliie, vol. H. P-53.163 PROGNOSIS. epileptic attack, accompanied with convulsive movements of the upper and lower limbs. If the examination be made whilst the patient stands I epilepsy follows, with the painful sensation produced by pressure. On examining the spinal column, it is easily perceived that a greater or less mobility exists in almost all the vertebra, but especially in those in which the pressure causes the symptoms mentioned. There still, however appears no permanent deformity; but if the patient be carefully suspended i b)'the head or by the arms, all appearance of deformity subsides, and it is clear that all are possible, but none yet exist which may become perma- nent. If the ailment continue to permit it, successive and alternate fixed curvatures occur, which quickly increase, but always retain their funda- mental character, to wit, a greater or less large arch, generally of pretty large extent, but regular, and free from all angles. These curvatures very ‘ readily increase. J 1352 In the curvatures of the spinal column from softening of the bones, the spine usually projects backwards where one or several bodies of j i vertebr(£ have s™k in, and a vertical flattening of the body of a vertebra takes place. The bending backwards is frequently connected with a slight disposition towards the side. At some distance from the original curva- .ure, large curves and almost regular arches are formed. In rickets there ire accompanying swe lings of the condyles of the tubular bones, which also end in various parts, disturbance of digestion, distended belly, and so on In steamolacy, the whole constitution is much affected for a long while before ^ he curvature takes place, severe, commonly wandering pains spreading vwer the breast and belly, frequently fixed in the spine, which’increase at u. erj movement, even on turning round in bed nrecede nnrl .iirvature; febrile symptoms frequently appear’; digestion and al'/The beCT.m0re and m0re 1 «. is always greater ■°en,P ,heJnaL„,I”'™”1’ ^ °” of “><= pain at e^ryTove’ WhiCh, dC‘eT“s ^eetta ‘»d the bones of thesis, are decidedly changrftattdrft'rm 5he ?ine',is generally ■id complication of the disease Manv uiatlon’ the cause, the degree, -come permanent, ^ &S ^et’ have •2alth and weakness of the muscles mav indplfP'116^ < lsturbance of the * vourable change of the constitution ch’ • ,.d’in rare cases subside, form ‘om accidental improvement of flip UUn^, ie Peri°d of development, or *i this self-assistance°of^atur<f te“of buf reliance ’•pcrienee commonly shows the case n'l.io ''gerous; for, in most cases, dient the slighter the decree of curv-it "0rse‘ The younger the ’re; 5« Persons advanced In years Td I'’ ? the easier * * of ^Se may be arrested by careful treatment s ’ ? pr°Sress of the the cause of the curvature be -i 4 ,?erfect Cure is effected. ■oynosls is always more unfavoub^e^as^ condition of the bones, the * muscles. If inclinations of the ,ntnp I •i"'61’6 m m'^proportions of 18 fore difficult than if there were mJT”1 dmrctions> exist, the ce that°°ntlnUed curvatures of the spine I y 006 Slngle inclillation. •ion m ^rendered impossible. the — impossible ft ;7tY ~‘TSC° uccm' in the verte- ln reference to this Joint that ^tftherefore an important obser 1 tnat the curvature remain without m 2CURVATURE OF THE SPINE. 164 increase some two or three years, and still more important, that for an equally long time, all the vague symptoms of inexplicable injury of functions, which accompany the completion of the deformity, are progres- sively and completely stopped (a). In these cases the curvature is connected with anchylosis of the vertebra, and the cure is impossible. In order to ■ ascertain this, the patient, having stripped, should be laid flat on his belly, and rubbed with spirituous remedies on the extended muscles, but with relaxing remedies on those which are contracted, and attempts should ; be made to restore the spine gradually to its natural direction. If the patient then feel a stretching and stress upon the curved part of the t spine, and not at the insertion of the muscles, it maybe decided that there - is anchylosis. This condition of the curvature is more surely indicated, if f previous or continued extension of the spine show no change in the curva- - ture. On the other side, if changes in the spine be observed on carefully y I lifting the body by the head (1), so that the feet do not support the weight of the body, or in extension whilst in the horizontal posture, there is more v hope of restoration. Anchylosis, however, is not very common, and usually ■ only accompanying a long continued great degree of curvature, and in persons of advanced age. The scoliosis, when it first occurs in adults, > rarely attains the first degree. The lordosis is most easy, the cyphosis the most difficult of cure. [(1) This practice of lifting by the head, to which Cfiei.ius very frequently recurs m these diseases, I think very objectionable and dangerous, especially in weakly children, who may be entirely free from disease, as the longitudinal ligaments of the spme may be insufficient to bear the weight of the lower part of the body. Astley Coopeb, in hay lectures, was accustomed to inveigh bitterly against the foolish trick of showing children the way to London, as it is called, which consists in lifting them up by the chin and back of the head. Ciielius’s proposal is of the same kind, and equally objecnow able.—J. F. S.] ^ 1354. The treatment of curvature of the spinal column must bet variously conducted, according to the different cause and nature of the deformity, that is, such remedies must be employed as counteract the! causes in which it originates, and at the same time, or immediately afta* the straight direction must be restored by mechanical apparatus and other means operating on the spine. In former times the first indicw tion was almost completely neglected •, the treatment was, for the most part purely mechanical, and partly thence, partly from the inadequacy of tW ' mechanical apparatus, was imperfect, and in most cases, even hurtWW Only in modern times has this treatment become the object of careflw inquiry, and employed on right principles, according to the different of the causes of curvature. A survey of the various machines and contn vances which have been proposed for the treatment of the spinal curv*“ ture, give proof of this. . 1355. The apparatus which have been proposed for cure of spinal cun ture, act either by pressure or extension, or both together. 1356. To the apparatus, acting by pressure, belong _ A First. IIeistek’s iron cross (5), which consists of two flat iron rods nected together in form of a T On the transverse piece are two n»g*»_ which the shoulders can be drawn back ; at the extremity of the v A piece descending along the back is a strap, by which it is attached body. B. Bell (c) has added to this machine a padded necK^Br (a) Delpech, above cited. _ (4) Institutions Cliirurgicie, pi. viii. f. 13. (c) Lehrbegriff, vol. v. pi. iv. f. 5, b, <■165 TREATMENT. connected to the cross by an iron rod, which may be fixed higher or lower, in order to keep the head more or less up. Second. Van Gesschek’s apparatus consists of a stirrup bound around the pelvis, on which two rods are attached with screws running upon the sides of tiie spinous processes, and rivetted above to a shoulder-piece, on the two ends of which are straps to draw the shoulders back. 1357. To the apparatus operating by extension, belong, first of all, the extending beds and stretching apparatus of Venel and Schreger (a), Lafond(£), Shaw (c), Maisonabe (d), Blomer (e), Langenbeck (f), Delpech (g), Heine, and others, in which the patient is fastened, by means of padded straps applied on the feet and head, above and below to a bed or chair, and the extension of the whole body is kept up by sufficiently strong springs. In some of these machines it is attempted simultaneously :o employ pressure, by means of solid pillows thrust beneath the back, oi- ls in the stretching apparatus of Delpech and Langenbeck, by elastic :races carried.around the body from one to the other side of the bed. The >ame object is effected only momentarily, by the so-called neck-swing escarpolette) of Clisson, in which a broad cloth is applied around the latient’s neck, and to its two sides is attached, behind the ears, a bandao-e vhich is carried through a pulley attached to the cieling, wherewith the latient draws himself up as long as he can bear it. Here also belongs Le Vacher’s machine which consists of stays, laced n front, and having a plate attached to its hind part. An iron rod passes nto a groove upon this plate, which ascends straight up the middle of the leek and thence curves over the head to the forehead. In the notch at he upper end of this rod is hung an apparatus which is fastened around he head and beneath the chin of the patient. Peltjg (h) has improved ns machine by attaching, instead of the head-apparatus, at the end of the ron rod which reaches only to the upper part of the neck, a neck-band, by diich the chin and occiput can be held up. Sheldrake altered Le achers machine ; he took away the stays and fastened the iron rod on a late which descended from the middle of the back and fitted closely to the amp-bone. Delacroix also altered this machine, making its point of I San00 the felV-S Gu.ERIN W has proposed an apparatus for the [ multaneous extension (extension sigmoide) of the vertebral column in con- I ary directions of the curvature. Qh<i appa,ratus actinS by extension and pressure, are- w ,™/rT S aPParatus (»)> consisting of two semicircles connected • -gether, winch lie upon the hip-bones and from whence rise up two sheaths I ken VervUhi‘ eLnes Streckapparates zum nucht- langen 18?nChl ^ auckgrath9gckrr™mte. 'llL’i u 1toWlth copper-plates. X,l?W0n ,Medlcal and Physical Journal, Dec. ;c) Above cited, vd) Journal Clinique des Dilformites, Dec. 1825, >. ii. VCn GR'EpE Und VON Walthrh, P«teq,"^: DG*mng.tei88|)in'C dist0rUonib«9 (9) Orthomorphie, pi. 40, 41. (A) Bernstein, Systemat. Darstellung des Cln- rurgischen Verbandes, p. 259. b ^ * pl(clxixKDY’ ab°¥e Cited‘ ChirUrg- K“Pfertafeln, up Gazette Medicale, Nov. 1835 p. 732. (/) Zoonomia, or tlie Laws of’ Organic Lire London, 4to. 2 vois. 1794-96 0 le- J;nZF?vn'Fl'S Ch'rurgische Kupfertafeln, pi. CXXX1V. clix. clxix. clxxxn. ccxl. ccxlvi. P (.a) Beschreibung einer neuen Maschine zur ™rtere und He,iung «uchei- &A,CURVATURE OF THE SPINE. 166 or the reception of two rods, which at their upper part have a semicircular sweep outwards for supporting the shoulders, and are movable higher or lower. At the upper part of each sheath is a semicircle, to which two rods are attached, their upper ends thrown round the half circles, like hooks, their lower ends curved round the half circles, encompassing the pelvis and ascending within it. These processes, covered with leather, form long pads, which are brought close to, or separated from, the rods, by screws. "Well-fitting stays surround the front of the chest. The apparatus of Langenbeck (a) and von Graefe (h) are constructed on the same prin- ciples. Second. Jorg’s apparatus (c) consists of a firm and an elastic part; the former is made of linden wood, covered with soft leather; the latter con- sists of several springs laid close together and covered, connected at the one end with the firm part and at the other end fastened with a buckle. In scoliosis the firm part is applied to the concave side of the trunk, below it rests upon the hip, and above, juts against the shoulder. The elastic 1 half is carried round the other side (for the first degree of scoliosis, Jo kg employs an elastic brace, which is attached to the breeches usually worn, . before and behind, in the middle by a button, and passes over the shoulder of the projecting side, where a pad is placed beneath it.) In cyphosis this - apparatus is applied with the alteration, that the firm part is always • applied where the trunk is concave, and the elastic half on the seat of the projection. A. Portal had already proposed to a certain extent a similar apparatus, consisting of a double fork, which is fastened on the sides to a pair of stays, so that the arm above and the hip below serve for its application (d). The Graefean apparatus is composed—-1. Of a loin-girdle, which by means of a pair ? of semilunar plates rests upon the crests of the hip-bones. The hinder ends of this girdle may be introduced into each other, and fastened with a screw. The front ends are connected with a buckle. Upon the semilunar plates are studs on both sides, on which ' is fastened a strap, destined to support the belly. All this part of the machine is stuffed - with hair and covered with leather. 2. Of a breast-girdle, which like the lower one consists of two semicircles, connected behind in the same way as is the lower one; and in front, in males, fastened together by a strap and buckle; but in females, segments are applied around the breasts. 3. On the loin- and chest-girdle there are, on both sides, two rods firmly connected with the former, and with the second by a steel plate. These rods i form beneath quadrangular sheaths, which terminate in quadrangular capsules, on the out- side of each of which is a quadrangular prominence. In the interior of these sheaths is an endless screw, which can be raised up or depressed by means of a roller fixed on the quadrangular projection. The rest of the sheath above the quadrangular process - is formed into a cylinder, in which is a spiral spring. Into the upper opening of this cylindrical part of the sheath is the rod received, having upon it the support for the» shoulder, 'which is properly padded, and so attached to the rod that it can be differenujr Ij placed, according to the different form of the shoulder. For the purpose of connecting » pressure on the spine with this extending apparatus, cushions are applied, by means of ■ screws on the breast or loin-girdle, according to the difference of place to which pressure r is to be applied. , . , j I have made the following alterations in this apparatus to render it more simple anu less costly. A case of iron plate, properly padded, and enclosing the pelvis up to the, upper spine of the hip-bone, is fastened in front with a broad strap and buckle. On MOW sides of this pelvis case are two buckles, in which two rods connected with each otnff» are inserted. At the upper end, these rods are connected with an iron plate, through tne middle of which a screw passes, quadrangular at its lower end, and at the upper, tw properly padded supports are attached, which may be placed higher or lower, by mean (а) Bibliotliek fiir die Ckirurgie, vol. iii. pt. il. i. ii. f. 3. , „ (б) Mai.sch, G. Dissert, dc nova machina Graefiana distorsioncs spina: dorsi ad sanandas pi nec non disquisitio deformitatum istarum. Bern •, 1818. tto.; with copper-plates. (el Above cited, pi. v. f. 1. (rf) Precis dc Chirurg. prat., vol. i. I aru,*• I I- j r167 TREATMENT. ,of a key fitting the quadrangular end of the screw; thus the apparatus acts like fGKAEFE’s. For the purpose of making graduated pressure I do not employ cushions, i hut elastic bands, (after Joeuge’s plan,) which iu cyphosis lie upon the back, and are attached to brass studs on both rods; but in scoliosis, to the studs on one rod over the projecting side of the trunk, between it and the ascending rod, for the purpose of Esurrounding the whole body, and again is attached to the stud of the first rod. In incli- nation in two opposite directions, this yoke may be applied, also in contrary directions. If the shoulder-blade particularly project, I carry an elastic band over the more elevated shoulder, and fastened behind and before to that going around the body. I allow this ft apparatus to be worn day and night over a close shirt. From its careful employment tv l have derived the happiest results (a). 1 J 1359. It were superfluous to enter on a special criticism of the several tpparatus. Those contrivances only which at once effect extension and pressure can act efficiently. Of the portable apparatus of this kind, those mly answer the object which have their point of support on the pelvis, md are so constructed that they cause no painful pressure, nor too great :ompression of the chest, and so on. With proper consideration of the >oints still to be mentioned in reference to special treatment, the cure may ndeed be effected with these apparatus in incipient and slight degrees of ■urvature, and specially in lateral curvature produced by unequal muscular .ctivity, as I have so frequently had opportunity to observe in the use of ny above-described apparatus, which is distinguished from that in which liressure is made by the cushions, by the lateral elastic bands. Such | avourable result is, however, only possible with close and careful attention “ nd when, especially, all the circumstances of the patient are properlv egulated. When this is not the case, the disease becomes really worse 'r at *east the time is lost which could have been best employed for be cure of the deformity. For all great degrees of curvature, such eatment is insufficient; a continued employment of the extending appa- itus is necessary, the operation of which is not equally certain as that of ie portable apparatus, and among which that is best, in which at the ime time, bands are attached, to operate on the opposite sides’ of the •unk, as, for instance, in the extending apparatus of Deepech, Langen- eck, and others. 1360. Such treatment can only in reality be carried on with suitable j mth!.spJcia inst,Ultlons .for.the purpose; and this is the reason why of |te these (orthopedic) institutions have become so veiy numerous There I! however, a well grounded complaint, that in many of them the entire : eatment is conducted in a too mechanical manner; and that by too lono- ’ « “Se °,f ,‘hc f te"di?S Watus, with constant the gr E ?aiUSld t0 the W ,0 e constitution of the patient; so that as I ^fortunately have seen in several cases, with slight or merely transit™ diffiralt * * * l Si^kinT, °f the Spine Me proper 2i! ‘'7 J c™*5 the lat7 “ntl especially by ■ new and very successful nathTth* i sl'oh l?ymuastics, of having opened I n) Gbcb ^ successtul path in the treatment of this deformity. eliiis«nfi ^'wnanSm^l^Mitate^JcuTaccedft pei“plateg.rbi do3CriPUo- 1825- 4to.; with cop-168 CURVATURE OF TIIE SPINE. 1362. These gymnastics have the especial object of relieving the vertebra from each other’s weight for several hours daily ; of supporting the weight of the body, without condemning it immediately to rest and its ill conse- quences ; of exciting the activity of the muscles to sufficient continuance and power, so that it may be advantageous to the nourishment of these organs, and to the improvement of the whole constitution; to employ all the muscles, without exception, in increased exertion, and by means of motion, extension, and pressure, employed in all directions, to reach the affected parts of the spine. These exercises are to be used daily for two or three hours, and then, according to the state of the deformity, the necessary extension in the stretching-bed, or some special apparatus is to be employed. Delpech considers swimming as very proper, but other- wise he does not use bathing, if no special reason call for its use ; neither * does he employ friction and the like, because by the exercises the muscles ■ i are acted on far more properly and more powerfully than by those means. . t These exercises, which are undertaken gradually, and extended to all the muscles, , f are, movements upon the swing, exercises and games on the spiral ladder, exercises on i the knotted rope, games on the loose rope and climbing pole, games on the obliquely- • 1 stretched rope, on the straight and obliquely-stretched ladder, games on the tight rope | , and flying bridge, the use of a windlas, games with the horizontal pole, and so on. r The atlas accompanying Delpecii’s work gives a sufficient representation of these i ; different exercises. Where no special institution is at hand, apparatus for these exercises must be intro- - f duced into every room, yard, or garden. I have for several years (in my private t j practice) employed such appropriate gymnastic exercises, in connexion with other r | remedies in the treatment of curvatures, with the desired results. 1363. If the cause of the curvature be in an unequal contraction of the < ; muscles, in which ordinarily the left side sinks down, the right shoulder- blade projects, and the right shoulder is raised, it must be treated according ; to the general rules laid down. It is usually attempted by rubbing in suppling ointments, or oily remedies to relax the contracted muscles of the sunken side, and by rubbing opodeldoc, .spiritus serpylli c. liq. ammon. i caust., tinct. canthar., with some volatile additions, to excite the muscles of the protruding side to action. For these cases the employment of I electricity, repeated blisters and the douche upon the side of the extended muscles, have been also recommended. In the rubbings, which are to be performed night and morning, the patient should be stretched on his belly, and they should be continued from half to a whole hour, and attempts are, in the mean time, to be made to press the spine into its natural i j direction. These rubbings operate certainly less through the substances - rubbed in, than from the pressure, kneading, and stretching of the con- tracted muscles. If the nervous activity be in these cases diminished, o the rubbing should be more active ; spirituous remedies, and even the application of stronger irritating remedies are indicated. In incipient scoliosis, if care be taken that the patient carry himself properly, that the two halves of the body be equally exerted, that all faulty posture in writing and the like be diminished, that he often hang by his hands, and keep the horizontal posture in bed, upon a hard mattrass, a perfect* cure may be effected. Here also well-fitting stays, with whalebone or elastic springs, will be of much use, as tiiey properly support the body (*)•* '< In more considerable curvature, regulated gymnastic exercises, the u-«e» of a properly constructed portable apparatus, or better, the employ®*®"! of a stretching apparatus, is most suitable. In these cases, the scoUos**TREATMENT. 169 does not usually affect the general state of health, and vve see that the mechanical means are best endured. If the constitution be at the same time affected, corresponding remedies and suitable dietetic care must be employed. (1) The prejudices which have been very properly made to the stays (a), has no reference to this determination of their employment. 1364. For the quicker cure of curvatures of the spine, depending on muscular contraction, Guerin (b) has proposed the division of the con- tracted and shortened muscles, and practised it in several cases. The muscles which he cut through were m. cucullaris, rhomboideus, levator anguli scapulce, sacrolumbalis, longissimus dorsi, and semi spinales. He has performed the division in persons of both sexes, and of different ages : the youngest was thirteen, and the oldest twenty-two years of age. All the curvatures were in the second and third degrees, with distortion of the spine and corresponding humps. In some a single division of the shortened muscle was sufficient; in others a second and third was under- taken. In all he obtained, immediately after the operation, a very striking degree of straightening of the spinal column ; and in a man of twenty-one years of age, whose curvature had been subjected to a ten months’ mecha- nical treatment, he effected an immediate straightening by cutting through the m. longissimus dorsi, and the corresponding m. semi-spinales, i In other subjects he carried on the treatment by mechanical means with decidedly good effect. Although the subcutaneous division of the muscles of the back has been undertaken by other persons, I cannot, from the practice in question, give so decided judgment of its fitness, as ;he numerous and careful observations upon tenotomy in other curvatures nave allowed. [In regard to the division of the muscles for the cure of curvature of the spine Robert Hunter of Glasgow (c) says“ In no instance has the operation of itself produced a :ure; but in all the cases on which I have operated, with one exception, it manifestly Maced the patient in a more favourable state for the performance of a cure. The opera- non itself appears to me to effect no more than to take ofF, either in part or whole, the power of muscles that are interested in maintaining the curvature, and thus placing the fpme in a condition to be more easily influenced by mechanical and physiological causes. 1 ne cases which have been treated by me have all been of long standing, none less than ! seven years, and some ten, sixteen, and twenty years, and all with considerable torsion md gibbosity, as well as lateral curvature. * * * In some instances the section of the nuscles was instantaneously followed by an obvious improvement in the state and ippearance of the back ; in other instances I could discover no change whatever. S pefr , ’ ’ says R. Hunter, “ the subcutaneous section of the dorsal muscles atfour K? P w%0f ^ fck;, I weaken the tension of the deepest-seated layer of I 7Tr formed ,Jy th® multijidus spines, by dividing the thickest part of that I “ 11 hes comparatively superficially upon the dorsum of the sacrum, opposite the h! mhhu JTn°r Tn°US ,P1'0Ce^ °f ?e iUum; 2nd and 3rd> 1 remove the tension of bv cmfinv tfiP1D mU,SdeS’ that fOTmed by the ^tU/issimus dorsi and sacro- bnesin' t L ™ theS.e muscles across> sometimes in the lumbar region, and some- Kemlvinrf region, according to the circumstances of the case; but more I ensimTo/thp flat ^UnJbar re£10n' far the origin of these muscles ; 4th, to destroy the I ncision cW m tR d “°re superficlal fuscles, I divide these muscles by a longitudinal v he muscles anneals t^beT pr0C<;SSGS °^the verte^a, at the place where the tension of iffecL the In, - ■ J • r . 111 one instance i cut through, with considerable !■ : ThV? thG Sldf f the Ch6St’ and consequently at some distance P ’ nn e muscl.e crossed the contracted and concave side of the trunk, and When the patient r mnearerl v, uoinraciea ana concave Sid ” ppeared to be accessory in huddling in the ribs of that side. 4 Schnu”bniste°’ Beriin^EI d'6 SchadIichkert (c) °n the Section of the Muscles in Spinal ' ' 1840. No. Curvature; m London Medical Gazette, vol. xxxii. /•awV oeriui, 1793. 4,l5aZettC M6dkfUe d(? Par>«-170 CURVATURE OF THE SPINE; attempted to elongate that side, a cord, as thick as the little linger, was seen stretching from the crest of the ilium to the scapula; as soon as this rigid cord of muscle was cat through, the ribs became less huddled together, and that side could be elongated to a much greater degree, and the spine materially affected. The cutting of the d or»l muscle is only the first, though an important step in the treatment of spinal deformities. The means that are afterwards employed in conducting such cases to a success ul issue, are both mechanical and physiological. The first consists in the application of pressur^ . made in various ways, and by various means, to assist in the gradual return of the parts to their natural places; and the second, without which the first would be useless ■ and unavailing, consists in infusing power into the muscles which have become weaker dormant from disease. by simply calling these muscles frequently, and in various com- ■ binations. m o division of “ certain muscles of the back, on the contracted state of f wh eh it was alleged the distortion depended,” Syme observes, “nothing could be more erroneous than this view of the case, since the muscles throughout its production Td existence are entirely passive. They, from the first, do not draw the spine away, . but allow it to bend, their fault being weakness, and not undue contraction, so that those • requWng to be connected are seated on the convexity of the curve, instead of ite con- cavity, and it is needless to add, could not be strengthened by division of their sub- • St!T have(not had any experience upon the subject, but am rather disposed to agree in opinion with Syme.—J. F. S.] . 1365. In curvatures dependent on great muscular weakness, internal tonic remedies must be employed, as bark, acorn coffee and the bke ^a strengthening succulent diet, the use of generous wines, chalybeate mineral waters, rubbing in volatile, aromatic, and spmtuous remedies, stee , . or aromatic bathing, river bathing, and so on. In these cases the - nastic exercises are especially effective, and, by their proper arrangement the injuries are more certainly prevented, which otherwise are necessarj produced by rest and inactivity of the muscles, accompanied wit use of the stretching apparatus. In children who begin to walk, usually sufficient to rub the back and lower limbs with spirituous remed es, to prevent sitting, and to let them sleep upon a hard mattrass. lu the high shoulder attempts must be made to relax and continually depress the too greater activity, and drawing back the head is effected. . 1366 If the curvature of the spine depend on softening and thickening . of the fibrous inter-cartilage, the readiness with whmh, by extension, the direction of the spine can be changed, renders it in the highest de proper If, by pressure, movement between the several vertebra ca bought about, there is no need of making any attempt at ^nsion, *r of employing any other means which act forcibly on the vertebra altered joints must first acquire more firmness. If, at the same une ^ be pain, which, although not symptomatic of inflammation, leads hobef of a passive gorging of the blood-vessels, a condition which by neglect passes on to inflammation and suppuration, leeches am cupping x are to be first employed, though not to excess; afteirwa^ds rubbmg in volatile camphor liniment, blisters, issues, cold douche b, warm douche bath of salt water, of water containing dplmrd^l. \ gen, even moxas, especially on the principal seat of the d^n [ env; rd. patient should observe a quiet posture on “Ve mTtions cautiously use the easiest gymnastic exercises; for instance, (a) Engravings, pi. vii. f. i., and described in his Essay on Distortions, already quoted.171 OF THE LIMBS. with the barrow and rope. The patient’s powers must be supported by a utritious diet and proper medicines. I' If the nature of this ailment be ascertained only by the horizontal posture, or by careful attempts at extension, if no other pain exist than that caused by careful extension, if it be not increased by pressure on the painful spot, and if it decrease by resting quietly on the back, the gymnastic exercises may be at once begun, with caution ; then followed by the employment of extension; and lastly, the lateral bandages (a) may be also employed. 1367. In curvature of the spine depending on rickets, the treatment must be especially directed towards the improvement of digestion and chylification, by tonic remedies and strengthening diet; aromatic and spirituous rubbings, strengthening baths, lying in the open air upon a . sand-bank, warmed by the sun, are to be employed; horizontal posture ipon a hard mattrass, and subsequently, gymnastic exercises and the extending apparatus are to be carefully made use of. The treatment is •imilar in osteomalacy; bark with phosphoric acid is here especially ifficient, as I have repeatedly observed. The very severe pain often Bsccurring in these cases, must not lead to the application of leeches, md so on. Besides proper position, and support of the body in general, ■ lothing further can be done in these cases against the curvature. 1368. If the curvature be connected with rheumatism, a correspondent i reatment must be employed; and the complication having been got rid $ >f, the treatment of the curvature must be thought about. Palsy 'of one >r several muscles often occurs from rheumatism ; in such cases, moxas, louche baths, purgatives long continued, and the like, are very efficient. ’ Curvatures of the spine, from contraction of one side of the chest, after the cure of an mpi/ema, or abscess in the lungs, are incurable, and every attempt at their treatment nadmissible and dangerous. Curvatures from shortening of one of the lower limbs iay, in many instances, be prevented by a peculiar shoe and the like, by which the iroper length of the limb is attained. J III.—Of Curvatures of the Limbs. [The several portions of the lower limbs are occasionally and variously •urved and contracted upon each other, either as original imperfect devel- opments, or resulting at any period of life from different causes, which nay be either inflammatory, or from paralytic affection of one set of nuscles, whilst their antagonists still possess their contractile power and ■ >eing unopposed, draw together more or less completely those portions of he limb to which they are attached. The fixedness of the limbs from Uher ol these causes must not be confused with that depending on anchylosis •Iready considered {par 224*) {b) in which, after more or less complete .Sfion Tp'of their cart^laSe?> the joint-ends of the bones are fixed in any brois or hL1"^ 6 a£TU ’ Unng thG pr°Sress of ^e disease, by a mon b0"y.um0n; ,The cases now to be considered depend entirely ^ils eCio ri :0tb0f r mr Vheir tend0ns’ and tendinous sheaths^ erv ittl! J n themselves have their structure entirely changed, or but erj httle altered; and in such only can surgical treatment be of any (a) Delpkcii, Orthomorphie, vol. ii. p.238. (b) Vol. i. p. 241.C 172 ] 1— OF CURVATURES OF THE LOWER LIMBS. Curvatures of the lower, are more frequent than those of the upper • i limbs, although the bony and muscular fabric of the former are much more strong and powerful, partly because the weight of the body resting J upon them more readily produces curvature, under the existence of favour- ing circumstances; and partly because in most cases, in incipient and even i in advanced curvature, walking produces an injurious effect upon the . lower limbs. Of the several joints of the lower extremity, curvature U • j least frequent at the hip, and most common, and indeed the ankle, at which also it is most generally an original A.—OF CURVATURES OF THE HIP. Curvature or contraction of the thigh upon the belly (Scelocampsis, t, j Lat.; Angezogensein des Oberschenkels an den Unterleib) may originate • i in the continued action of the flexing muscles of the thigh, whilst their r i antagonists are palsied from any cause, or from sympathetic affection of the former muscles, with disease of the verlebrce, which is sometimes con- • sequent on metastasis, or from inflammation in the m. psoas. The treatment of these cases consists in relaxing the contracted muscles - by suppling applications, and in exciting the inactive or palsied muscles * to action by the use of irritating remedies; and if these fail, the division of the flexing muscles, to wit, the m. pectineus and sartorius has been c , proposed and performed by Stromeyer (a), but which, as far as I am' aware, although successful, has not been repeated by any one else. In a case of metastatic inflammation of the spine following measles, in a child of ten ■ years, in which the thigh, at first drawn close up to the belly, by yielding of the lumbar i muscles after the use of tartarized antimonial ointment, blisters, and rubbing in mercurial a i ointment, could be drawn down to a right angle, Stromeyer divided the m. pectineus and sartorius with success. The division was made in the following manner:—One assistant fixed the pelvis, whilst another stretched the contracted thigh, which raised the m. pec- tineus so that the finger could be passed behind it from its outer side, an inch and a half, below its origin. A strong phimosis-knife was then introduced upon the finger through r i the upper half of the muscle, dividing it, and penetrating the skin. He then cut through: : one half of its breadth beneath the skin, and afterwards divided the second inner and under half; and only a few drops of blood followed the four little punctures made in the operation. The m. sartorius was divided, by adducting the knee so as to make the r muscle prominent; and having raised it with the thumb and finger of the left hand, he thrust a phimosis-knife through, about two and a half inches below its origin, and divided the muscle beneath the skin, the ends of which separated rather more than half an inch. The leg immediately straightened without the least difficulty, and having been kept on an extending apparatus for a fortnight, was allowed to get up, and in the course of three months walked about well. (pp. 119, 20.) not infrequent, at malformation. B.—OF CURVATURES OF THE KNEE. Curvature of the knee may be either congenital or acquired, and de- pending on imperfect development of the muscles, tendons, and Jascice, or on their shortening consequent on inflammation, either of the structures themselves or of the cellular tissue around or in the neighbourhood of the joint, or simply from inaction. This condition is to be distinguished from the curvature which almost invariably accompanies anchylosis following ulceration of the joint-cartilages, and which has been already considered.* (a) Above cited.173 CURVATURE OF THE KNEE. One knee may curve or bend inwards, producing’ the deformity called In -knee ( Genu valgum, Lat.; Ziegcnbein, Schemmelbein, Germ.; Genou “en dedans, Fr.) or Knock-knees, when both knees are in like manner affected. It is characterized by a projection inwards of the inner condyle of the thigh-bone, with a less or great divergence of the leg and foot outwards, so that in standing the feet are far apart from each other, and the thigh- bones, overhanging the inside of the heads of the shin-bones, are, together with the weight of the body, supported mainly by the internal lateral ligaments of the knee-joints. The knees also, instead of being against ihe same imaginary plane, are placed one behind the other. When this deformity is great, walking is very awkwardly performed, as it is neces- sary, in bringing the leg forwards, to abduct it considerably, to avoid striking the knees together; and in consequence of the oblique direction if the leg, the inner ankle also bends inwards and the person treads upon :he inside of the foot. This is a very common ailment in labouring persons who carry very leavy weights, but is generally worst in those accustomed to wheel heavy oarrows. It, however, is by no means unfrequent in young people who Egow quickly, but is often recovered from, as their bodily strength im- proves, unless occupied with hard labour. Little can be done for this distortion, which I have in one or two persons mown to incapacitate from following any laborious employment, besides supporting bandages and cold douche baths. Although irons are recom- nended, I have not seen much benefit from them. The knee may also be curved outwards (Genu varum, Lat.; Sdbelbein, 3erm ;) this is, however, rare, and must not be confused with the so- sailed bow leg, which depends principally on outward curving of the hin-bone, and to which the slight outward bend of the knee is only onsequent. J The knee is, however, most commonly bent forwards, ( Contractura Genu Lat.; Vorwdrtsbeugung des Kniees, Germ.,) and this may occur from ..original shortening of the bending muscles of the leg, or of the fascia ' covering the thigh, an account of which last was first published by Fro- • uep (a), who found, in a corpse, that although the flexing muscles were Jut through yet the knee could not be straightened. Very frequently the r -cnee is bent at a later period of life, and the most common causes are rheu- • natic inflammation of the tendinous structures about the joint independent Jt disease of its interior, or scrofulous inflammation running on to suppu- " around °r e™ J" ^ joint itself. Palsy of the extending muscles i. nay also give rise to this kind of bending of the knee The treatment of these cases consists in rubbing and in the application if extending apparatus and the use of passive motion, from patiently per- I ”5^ wlJb wblch for » long period, considerable benefit and occasional ure results ; but in those cases which cannot be managed it has been nf ecommended to divide the hamstrings, an operation, I believe first prac- Jctober lsTo ^nd^it ^h’ ^ Performed il three times previous to ’ 'ri °’ d * has since been occasionally performed with varied ' ZZ at^To^^T"1’ eit],er b* d-sion the^iams^r/ng lividerl ?nce> 01\by partial and repeated cuts till they are completely Imded, nsn.g at the same „me an extending appara J as theT* ent I Irtl Filin..,. V e a A (n) Chirurg. Kupfert, No.E w Oeb«r die Schwtichung 346. der Lehnen durch Einschneidung; in IIufeland and Humby's Journ. der prak. Heilk., vol. vi. p. 1.174 CLUB-FOOT. can bear it. Objections, however, have been made to the operation, that in consequence of the often long-continued bent position of the leg, the joint surfaces in the knee are so much altered in form that they cannot retain their reacquired natural position, and consequently dislocation of the shin-bone backwards occurs (1). The operation is performed by pass- - inn- a phimosis-knife between the hamstring and the bone, or between it and the skin, taking care to avoid the peroneal artery and posterior hbidU nerve (2). , , , m Fercusson, of King’s College, informs me, that in two or three instances he has* , seen dislocation at the knee occur after division of the hamstrings for contracted knee, -v and has keen obliged to amputate the limb. (2) Stanley (a) operated on a case of contracted knees two years after paraplegia consequent on sleeping in a damp bed. “ Each knee-joint was immovably fixed in the state of extreme flexion ; the ham-strings were contracted and rigid; and the cellular a tissue around them had become indurated, and firmly agglutinated to the tendons,*, whereby their outline could not be distinctly traced. * * * To avoid all risk of 1 injuring the popliteal or peroneal nerve, he deemed it prudent to divide the rigid ham- sEs, and the surrounding indurated cellular tissue, by small subcutaneous incisions many times repeated in both limbs, applying after each operation the apparatus for extending the knee-joint.” By this proceeding, after many months, the joints slowly straightened, and became movable ; but, the action of the ankle-joints being impeded by the rigidity of the Achilles’ tendons, Stanley divided these, and afterwards the extensor tendon of each great toe, as it was rigid, and kept the toes constantly raised Warm baths and friction were employed for suppling the limbs, and, at the end of eighteen months, the case was perfectly cured.—J. F. S.J C.—OF CURVATURES OF THE FEET. 1369 The feet may be curved in various ways; thus, they may be* turned inwards (Vari) or outwards, ( Valgi,) or the sole of the foot and. the heel may be inclined so backwards and upwards, that the entire sole shall have the same direction as the leg, or the foot may be so drawn i forwards and upwards towards the shin-bone, that the point of the; heel alone touches the ground. The first kind of curvature .s called Club-foot; the second, Splay-foot; the third, Hoise-foot, and the fourth,. Heel or Hook-foot (Pied-bot calcairen of Scoutetten.) Duval (b) includes the various curvatures of the foot under the genera1 strephopodie, and distinguishes varus as strepliendopodie, valgus as strep/iexopodie, boree- ioot as strephocatopodie, its highest degree as strephypopodie, and heel-foot as str phanopodie. a.—OF CLUB-FOOT. (Varus, Lat.; Klumpfuss, Knollfuss, Germ.; Pied-bot, Ft.) —*i Sheldrake, Thomas, Observations on the Causes of Distortions of the Legs oft Children. London, 1794. Ibid A Practical Treatise on the Club-foot. London, 1798. H,, Bruckner, A., Ueber die Natur, Ursachen und Behaudlung der einwiirts gekrummteii' Fiisse. Gotha, 1796. 8vo. . , _ Naumburg, J. S., Abhandlung von der Beinkriimmung. Leipzig, 1.96. 8vo. Wantzel, J. M., Dissert, de talipedibus variis. Tubingie, 1798. . Scarpa, A., Memoria Chirurgica sui Piedi torti congenitidei Fancmlh, e Maniera di cohere fiesta Deformita. Pavia, 1817. Third Edition. 8io I Time Ueber Klumpfiisse und eine leichte und zweekmassige Heilung dorse I Leipzig und Marburg, 1806. 4to.; with copper-plates. (n't London Medical Gazette, vol. xxxv. p. 98. 1844. ((.) Kevue Medicale, 1818, Dec.CLUB-FOOT. 175 Delpech, Considerations sur ladiflormiteappeleePied-bots; in Clinique Chirurgicale le Montpellier, p. 147. Held, Charles, Dissertation sur le Pied-bot. Strasbourg, 1836. Little, W. J., Symbol® ad talipedem varum cognoscendum. Berlin, 1837. Ibid., A Treatise on the Nature of Club-foot, and analogous Distortions, including heir treatment, both with and without surgical operations; illustrated by a series of •ases, and numerous practical instructions. London and Leipzig, 1839. 8vo. Stromeyer, L., above cited. Scoutetten, H., Memoire sur la Cure radicale des Pied-bots. Paris, 1838; with )lates. Bouvier, Memoire sin- la Section du Tendon d’AcHiLLE, dans le traitement des Pied- ;>ots. Paris, 1838. Dieffenbach, above cited, p. 73. Bonnet, above cited. Phillips, above cited. Duval, V., Traite pratique du Pied-bot. Paris, 1839. 1370. Club-foot is that deformity in which the foot is so twisted on its |ong axis, that its inner edge is raised, the outer turned downwards, and he sole of the foot with its back brought more or less vertical. The toes re strongly bent, the back of the foot more convex, the sole more oncave, and the heel raised, and inclined inwards, so that it does not ouch the ground. The whole foot is unnaturally turned inwards. Jjpon the back (instep) of the foot, a considerable prominence is formed y the head of the astragalus; the Achilles’ tendon is much stretched. ijjValking is more or less interfered with; the patient cannot tread upon the Sole of his foot, but only on the middle of its outer edge, and, often only n the outer part of the back of the foot, where commonly a large cal- sity or mucous bag is enlarged or newly formed. The patient is never ble to bend his foot by muscular power ; but, in making the attempt, e rather adducts the foot already inclined inwards. 1371. Club-foot has various degrees. When slight, the curved foot be brought back to its natural position, and the prominence on s back then disappears ; but the foot again treads in its unnatural posture hen walking is attempted. In the higher degrees, the foot can never e at once brought to its natural position, and often can scarcely be oved in that direction. In these motions of the foot, the fibres of the . gaslrocnemii and tibialis anticus, and the plantar aponeurosis, which I-e always more or less stretched, oppose the straightening of the foot. 1372. This malformation, which has been noticed as hereditary, is ther congenital, or occurs subsequently. In the former case, which is le most common, the club-foot arises as consequence of arrested develop- tent; of a continuing, excessive activity of the bending muscles of the >ot, as has been often observed in a three months’ foetus; or as conse- uence of peculiar position of the foot during pregnancy, and therewith J lso deficient innervation depending on diseased activity of the brain, and a ervous system. After birth club-foot may be developed by wounds, by 4 dsy of muscles, by spasm or neuralgia, and if the foot have been kept a >ng while in a particular posture by an ulcer, or any other painful cir- | imstance, by which shortening of certain muscles is produced. The 'sturhed antagonism of muscles (contraction of those attached to the sole, to the inner edire. extension nf tlmoo +i,„ i i_ i r. w< ie to the inner edge, extension of those to the outer edge, and back of ipr£.°f-\i 18 1 e special cause of this malformation ; all the changes which lerewith occur in the ligaments and bones are merely secondary symptoms.CLUB-FOOT. 176 The shortened muscles are m. tibialis anticus, and posticus, gaslrocnemii soleus, and plantaris, the plantar fascia, m. flexor longus digitorum pedis, abductor pollicis, transversalis pedis, flexor brevis minimi digiti, flexor longus, and brevis pollicis. The lengthened muscles are m. peronem longus, tertius, brevis, extensor longus and brevis digitorum pedis, ab- ductor minimi digiti. All the ligaments on the plantar surface, and on the inside of the foot, are shortened, as, on the contrary, those on its back and outer edge are lengthened. The tarsal bones are herewith, according to the degree of curving, more or less removed from their mutual contact, without entirely leaving the sockets or hollows, in which they had been received. The navicular, the cuboid, the heel-bone, and astragalus, especially change their position, and are twisted on their small axis. If club-foot exist long, the bones are fixed in their unnatural position, and more or less changed in their form. Opinions as to the cause of club-foot are very various. The notions of Pare and others, who held it to be the consequence of long sitting during pregnancy, with the legs twisted over each other, or from pressure of the feet in washing and carrying children, are merely to be mentioned. Duverney (a) fixed the cause of these curvatures in the muscles, and derived it from the unequal stretching of them and of the ligaments. Scarpa, as well as Bruchner and Naumberc, believed that vicious twisting of the foot first exists, and thereby is caused an approximation of the points of insertion of some muscles, and the distancing of others from their fixed points ; consequently, a shortening of the former, and an elongation of the latter. Wantzel considers club-foot i as great adduction, accompanied with violent extension, whence necessarily are the corresponding consequences; and Jorg holds it as a continued adduction, become habitual to the foot. Delpech (6) has of late withdrawn his previous opinion that the cause of club-foot is in the form of the bones, because the muscles do not oppose a contrary direction of the foot, which is especially distinct in those cases where the shortening is accompanied with atrophy, and with a sort of palsy. He considers tbel congenital, or accidental shortening of the muscles, as the peculiar cause of club-fooU and, at the same time, has pointed out the retraction of the plantar fascia. Rudolphi, who has several times seen this deformity in the foetus of from three to four months,* derives it from arrest of the nervous influence, contrary to the opinion put forth by Camper and Glisson, that the club-foot arose from vicious position of the child in the womb, by which the foot was pressed on, and its development prevented; an opinion in which Cruvelhier (c) has participated, and Martin (d) has sought to ground in pressure of the womb from deficiency of the waters. Scoutetten holds the following as the causes of congenital and postgenital club-foot. 1. Unequal division ot power between the extending and flexing muscles ; 2. Vicious condition of the joint surfaced of the tarsal bones ; 3. Vicious position of the foetus in the womb ; 4. Compression ot the flexible joints by contraction of the womb; 5. Convulsions of tbe child in tnei womb - 6. Convulsions in early childhood; 7. Chronic inflammation of the muscles01 j the leg- 8. Vicious innervation, dependent on disease of the brain, or spinal marrowr"] without’previous convulsions; 9. Contraction of the plantar fascia; 10. Contraction i of the muscles, without discernible cause. Duval (e) assumes as causes of congenital^ club-foot, (as well as of the other curvatures,) vicious position of the foot in the wouid. and disturbance of the functions of the brain and spinal marrow. Consecutive or ace • dental curvatures he derives from wounds, fractures, dislocations, bad holding ot tn foot from inflammation, abscess, and so on. With all these causes, unequal actmt} ot the muscles exists. Blasius (/) puts forth the congenital club-foot alone as th©MM one- in it the above-described symptoms are found. That occurring after birl 1, usually is not so great, and is produced by wounds, ulceration, palsy of the: m ■ dyscrasy, and neuralgy, is a natural extension of the foot, caused by too violen c tion of the muscles of the calf, in which the turning around the long axis of the tan <3 follows only secondarily from walking. This lie calls the seeming club-foot. Club-foot is, according to Little, easily distinguishable from that deforim } j (a') Traite dos Maladies des Os, vol. ii. c. 3. <1 tN „ 117 V (d) Bulletin de l’Academie de Medeune H _ y dU C°rps 1Il,main‘ Vt) Nov., >838. Paris, 18- •(^"Kijnische Zcitschrlft lor Cliirurgie und Augenheilkunde. pt. i. p. GO. aCLUB-FOOT. 177 ,‘nrsus which is caused by rickets. The participation of the parents in the disease, the isual complication which accompanies rickets; above all, the curvature of the bones of he limbs, serve as sufficient diagnostic marks. The pathognomonic signs, retraction of he heel, stretching of the tendons of the muscles of the calf and the adductors, concavity i >f the sole of the foot, and the curvature of the inner edge of the foot are wanting, i On anatomical examination the bones appear in varus to be brought out of their losition, without prejudice to their natural firmness, from muscular activity, and the height of the body; in false varus, which arises from rickets, the bones are not only •rought out of position by the weight of the body, but also compressed and misformed, a consequence of their softening. [The following interesting case of club-foot was under my care some years ago, in /Inch the cause was at first very doubtful, and led to several operations; but subse- uently I think there could be little doubt that it was hysterical. : Case.—S. P., aged seventeen years, a stout, healthy girl, was admitted April 9, 1837. She has been irregular for several months, and has had three fits, but If what kind cannot be ascertained. About a month ago she went to bed seemingly uite well, and with perfect use of her limbs; but, when she awoke in the morning, her ght foot was immovably fixed, with the sole turned upwards and inwards, so that hen put to the ground, the limb rested on the whole length of the outer margin of the ot. This was accompanied with great pain along the course of the m. peronei. . At the present time the foot is firmly fixed at right angle with the leg, and the sole ces directly inwards, the m. tibialis anticus is in strong action, and its tendon raising the in in front of the ankle-joint. No other tendon or muscle is unnatural. Any attempt ) restore the proper position of the foot causes great pain in the course of the contracted iuscle. In the course of the two following months, a moxa was thrice applied on the calf of e leg, with the hope of stimulating the antagonist muscles to action, but without inefit. May 18. She was attacked with pain on the inner edge of the calf of the leg, followed a little swelling, as if the m. gastrocnemii were in action at that point, and accompanied th slight tenderness. These subsided in the course of a few days, and her condition lerwise remained imchanged. June 15. A stream of cold water was ordered to be poured on her leg, from a height ffive or six feet, for a quarter of an hour every morning. This was persisted in for •eeweeks, occasionally followed by pain; but then given up, as there was an erysi- atous blush about the ankle, which, however, soon subsided. " - July 10. A moxa was put iu opposite the origin of the sciatic nerve t {.lit ComPla!“sof P^.n on the outer side of the calf, but more severe than before ft accompanied with swelling ot the muscle; these have been coming on for the last Fgh%tt£ DS " ab°Ut ^ SiZe °f half 3 ™lnut’ bS not firm aPn the following day she was electrified in the whole length of the m peronei and them across to the m. tibialis anticus. This was continued daily for f short’time si 1 she fancied she could move her great toe a little. * I y 21' 0ne °.r t"’° electric shocks were also passed through the region of the womb I °Pen,° ex?lte ’7° 5 but, after repetition for two or three dS w^givln^p .. produced great pam m the pelvis, without other effect. g P I „ hf •<ile<?trlfc sb°cl{s having blistered the front of her leg, sparks were ordered S Se ce^folvyh^vS', , b°7 a, fortnight 0r three weeks after, Pthe anterior fibia I HAt5? tibialis anticus was divided two iocbes above tie It ely restored, anil the soIemtU be t Sh“'P Tl'1' Moli»n ™ » 'i! tion when left alone and she then! « the ground, but returned to its old ' ! te leg, which continuedfor“ “ the inSteP>and UP the fr°nt 1 iral position bv annlvlnrr r * i , theiefore was necessary to preserve the < stirrup were Attached and ?rom°ite S°lc’ T th.e,sides of which the branches U, was carried uporthe foorg oTtie l! ™, p r0t|*7Vlth .a “rew for adjusting its This apparatus did nnt nnttwn .i & an(l fixed by a circular bandage below the t Boyer’s splint on the outside of tV^ PurPos®> »nd therefore, on the following day, 110re than a^eel? bS <£e?v da! tlw ’ a °0t Piec<-‘’ Tllis continued rOh. n. ’ GVery day the foot was found returned to its old posture, and178 CLUB-FOOT. , • •„ ^ncr continued. At the end of the week 1 for the greater part of the timethe pain 1 the^liml), and the top of the long splint a back-splint was put behind thei lengthoil «ie um. ’ Uion it had been daily found. »«t ii «* “““8" ““““”“^ ■ to its proper place by the hand as ^gem to have the least power. Flexion of the »—**-* ***•*•»“» ««*» • will require division. , wouid be attained by her attempting to walk, . Wishing to try wheAer any advantag consisting of an iron rod, jointed at an apparatus was applied on the °utsitte b ^ some gtraps roUnd the leg the ankle and keee, and extending hall P wer end, upon which the sole of the 1 f "S" persevered „ * - ** * ) bandages being adjusted as was found necessai y. the m_ tibialis posticus was at j Nov 25. On consultation with Dr. himr- r, p,eijind forwards—to wit, y tot ^ Kherefove divided itthe ft. flf entering the knife between the tibial and ^ “ down t0 the bone, cutting with it inwards. inches above the ankle, and carry’ S f recovered its natural position; a sbp jq| The inversion immediately subsided and the™ more done. .. ML * - - “ pntirelv subsided next day. . , was a train found a little tunied in the»{ "Sa. 0. AWftto grtf&Vft. this morning. 9. : old direction, which she herself had uot £edT., f the leg very different from the l complains of “ a shrinking pain atong the ^lde 0‘ d b/t’which has now entirely stretching which she first felt on the night ofthe 6 i the least difficulty ceased.’ ’§ The foot can L The jointed iron rod and foot- I piece''were^therefore'reapplied, and answer^wdl. absence of the menstro** « diX"= litleSSo U pnm in J “J fiSSJCa ’ S«iimigh{»»t Mil,determined th.« A. oft nnd five grains of aftSe?23heabdutCM changeor improvement has occurred as to the menses, or the n#W , & ‘■if'.'Ehe* still t«rnrfinvards.nd»p*ardsm||j ^ ^ 1«WJ had successively occurred, was hysterical, * were superfluous.TREATMENT. 179 Varus sometimes occurs as consequence of palsy of the muscles of the leg during i;ething. I operated, in 1839, on a case of this kind in a girl, between eleven and twelve ears old, in which the foot first dangled from the ankle; but, as she grew up, and began > walk, inversion commenced, and, when I first saw her, whilst standing upright, the >ot rested on the whole dorsum pedis, except the great metatarsal bone, which faced btwards; the tuberosity of the heel-bone was raised about an inch from the ground, and s imder surface faced inwards; before this bone nearly the whole sole faced directly pwards. When lifted from the ground, the foot nearly recovered the natural position; it there was still a little disposition to inversion, and the -weight of the front of the foot tinted the toes. When the knee was straight, the foot could not be flexed at all on lie leg; but, when the knee was much bent, the sole could be almost entirely applied to e ground. The gastrocnemial muscles were little developed, and the muscles generally d not control the foot. The Achilles’ tendon was divided, and extension made; 'ter five weeks, a steel rod. jointed at the angle and knee, and attached to a boot,' as put on, soon after which she got up, and, in rather more than seven weeks, began walk with the sole flat on the ground, with the assistance of a stick, which, in°he flowing week, she threw aside of her own accord, and walked slowly without assist- ed She would probably have improved more quickly, but that a slough formed on the in of the tuberosity of the heel, in consequence of the foot-piece of the first-applied paratus having pressed unduly. At the end of six months she walked very well, and e treatment had perfectly succeeded. Shortly after, I had another case of the same kind in both feet of a child, three years 1, in which the same proceeding was adopted with success, as the child walked upon i soles tolerably at the end of six months, whilst wearing boots with jointed steel leg- ls. But lie could not do without these, as the paralytic muscles had not recovered hough galvanism had been employed.—J. F. S.] 1373. As to the prognosis of this ailment, all depends on its degree d complication. If there be simply disproportion between the muscles, the twisted bones have neither their form changed, nor are fixed in their natural position by anchylosis, a favourable issue may be hoped for ; r tbe mo.re ^ patient be young, far distant from manhood, have no f mpanymg dyscrasic disease, and the nutrition of the curved foot have suffered much. The time in which the cure of this ailment may inr is not determinable, and depends upon the mode of its treatment J addition to its degree and duration. In adults who have walked W | their crooked feet, in which the bones are anchylosed, or considerably | }"|ed in form, their complete cure is impossible. n 2 V,' xne lreatment 01 club-toot consists in the restoration of tl ural antagonism of the muscles, and of the straight direction of tl K’” 1S, effected either by lengthening the shortened muscles b i j extension and mechanical contrivance, or by cuttin I JJf'Vom f °ns,°f the; shortened muscles, and subsequently slighter t- the foot by mechanical means. The first (mechanical) mode of treai • ation df^l wT and d,lffi?ult’ especially in a greater degree and longe iSed in , r ’ T 1 ,Caf fre(luent]ly it is of no service. It i 5ch trnnhip b fr °f club-foot> when the foot can, withou I datS L^,n^'W0Ug^LStr!-g^’ and a Constant careful oversight o pat ent is possible The division of the tendons is in all cases th i>;re th^edter^ ^ m°]de]of treatment has been without benefit, o i«ectation of i 1 gT £ > duratlon °f the curvature has led to tin ininatirlhe5“^ eXter"a' a speed. IvWed1the ^-ed muscles ■ ,aU?ng ‘he PCr,0(,S 0f rV'“'V Acting, of studying the foot, an, | order to bring the foot gradually into the straight direction, it isCLUB-FOOT. 180 recommended to use a warm bath, in which twice daily, the foot is to be immersed up to the knee, for about half an hour, and during this time attempts made to bring the foot into its natural position, holding it with one hand, so that the thumb lies upon the back, the forefinger on the inner edge, and the other fingers upon the sole of the foot, and with the other hand placed round the heel, by which the foot, and especially the heel, is turned outwards, the front of the foot raised, and its hind part depressed. I These manipulations must be carried on slowly, and for some time. 'When the foot has been taken out of the bath, and properly dried, lard or goose-fat is to be rubbed on the inner and hinder part of the leg, and on the inner and plantar surface of the foot, and any spiritous fluid should be rubbed on the fore and outer part of the leg and foot. For the purpose of keeping the foot drawn towards its natural direction, a triangular piece of cloth is used, folded to the breadth of two fingers, and about three- quarters of an ell long; it should be placed beneath the calf, carried - around both ankles, from without inwards, over the back, and over the: middle of the inner edge of the foot, under the sole outwards, and, by proper drawing, it bends the foot outwards. This turn being repeated, the tip of the cloth is carried from the outer, obliquely upwards towards 1 the upper edge of the foot, and both then connected by a packer’s knot upon the back of the foot, are carried around the ankle, and tied together (Bruchner’s bandage.) This cloth must be applied once or twice a day ; but, as it nevertheless is easily displaced, strips of sticking plaster may be applied on the same plan, much more efficiently, for the purpose of bringing the foot into place (a). In children born with club-foot, we are restricted for the first two or three months, on account of the delicacy of their skin, to frequent daily manipulation, by which it must be attempted to bring the foot gradually to its place ; and subsequently the mode of treatment proposed is to be employed. Success is frequent in these cases, on acconnt of the slight degree of the evil and the yieldingness of all the parts. A club-footed- patient who has already walked, must from the very onset of the cure be carefully restricted therefrom. Scarpa has recommended a peculiar spring for gradually bending the foot outwards; it is applied on the outside of the foot, and fastened with two straps. Repeated expe- rience has decided me on giving up this practice, and giving preference to the sticking plaster. , [As far as I have had opportunity of observing, little real benefit is derived beyond straightening the foot, whatever bandage or apparatus be used, before the child can be put on his feet, and the weight of his body counteract the unnatural contraction, ot disposition to contract, of the gastrocnemial muscles. I therefore rarely do more thsuW! as Chelius recommends, fix the foot with sticking plaster, and, perhaps, put on a light tin shoe, with a back, to render the bandage more firm, but with little expectation « flexing the foot.—J. F. S.] 1376. When the foot lias been so far managed, that it can be brought with the hand to its proper place, it is best retained there by the so-call»' Scarpa’s second machine (1), which is applied over the stocking worn day and night. The patient may then be permitted, gradually and upon even ground, to stand and walk. After some time, when the foot retains of itself its natural position, the apparatus may be left oft dunngil the day, but still worn at night. It is best to let the patient we®r.*rl laced boot, which should lace to the toes and have a thin steel plate at i * back. ..f|nl O') Scarpa’s machine consists of a shoe, the front of which is made of a thin pa ’ shoe sole, and the back part of a steel plate (a parabolic spring) which encloses (a) Giesk. Sal zb., Medic.-Uhirur. Zeitung, 181-t. vol. iv. p. 75. I181 DIVISION OF TENDONS. whole heel. On the inner part of this parabolic spring is a padded strap, which is drawn over the back of the foot and fastened to a stud on its outside. A horizontal spring is continued from the outside of the parabolic one to the tip of the foot, around which it is fastened by a padded strap. At the hind end of this spring is a strap fastened to a stud on the inside of the parabolic one; aud from the outside of the latter a moderately curved spring, with its concave surface towards the leg, ascends up to the region of the knee, and is connected with the parabolic spring by a rivet in form of a y. Two padded straps serve for fastening it to the leg above the ankle and below the knee, which, by means of pieces of tin and screws, can be variously attached to the vertical spring. Scarpa’s machine is similar to that proposed by Delpech (a). To it must be given merited praise and preference above all others (b) (2). Besides those mentioned, a number of machines and apparatus have been proposed, of which mention can only be made. Hippocrates’ laced boot; the apparatus of Pare, Hildanus, and Haar; the machines of Venel Brunninghausen (c), of Autenrieth, of Blomer (d), of Delacroix, and others. [(2) Scarpa’s shoe is a very good instrument when the varus is not great, but it will effect no benefit in a bad case; nor will any other; and division of the tendon, or :endons, will be requisite to produce a cure. I may mention, that where I have seen it lsed, the child walks on his heels, and in spite of the spring, the gait is that which is so .veil known as resulting from what is called pigeon toe.—J. F. S.] 1377. The subcutaneous division of the tendons for the more speedy •estoration of the position of the foot especially applies to the Achilles’ endon, the tendon of the m. tibialis anticus, and the plantar fascia. The Achilles’ tendon generally offers the greatest hindrance to the proper lirection of the foot; its division alone is in many cases sufficient, or only n the after-treatment is the necessity for the division of the other tendons declared; often, however, on first examination the necessity for the simul- laneous division of both is shown by the great stretching which the other mdons present. Besides those mentioned, I have, even in the most vere degree of club-foot, never found it necessaiy to divide any other, 3S r i n ) to rp - — -J ' — " J l/vy VAA T AVIV/ IA.IJ J KJ blIV/1 y though the division of the tendons of the m. tibialis posticus and of the flexor longus pollicis have been considered necessary and performed others; and Stromeyer, who has frequently cut through the tendon the m. tibialis posticus, himself admits that from the result of his ^ bservations on the division of this tendon no decisive influence upon the 'storation of the form and function of club-foot is to be ascribed to it. 1378. The division of the Achilles’ tendon is performed most simply id effectually in the following manner. The patient is laid upon his illy, the leg held by one assistant and the foot pressed in its natural rection by another, so that the Achilles’ tendon may be tightly strained id very prominent; the thumb and forefinger of the left hand are then 1 be placed on both sides of the tendon to fix it and the skin coverino- and then a narrow slightly.convex and pointed bistoury (1), held flat, is be thrust in at the inner side of the tendon and directly behind it, about ‘'o inches above the heel, beneath the skin, without penetrating it on the iter side, and then the edge of the knife being turned towards the ten- cuts it through (whilst the flat of the thumb of the left hand placed >n lie tendon presses it against the edge) with one or more strokes, tiiout injuring the skin. At the moment of the complete division of e tendon a crack is heard, the two ends of the tendon separate more or . W! e y .asunder, and the foot inclines in the same proportion to its • ura position. As soon as the knife is withdrawn slight pressure e cited, pi. v. vi. vii. Orthomorphie, riV'*uul-AUBon,; in Gr,tt- Anzcig., 1799, 713» p. 2049 ; 1B01, p. 1321. ciJ vol. XV. p. (c) Richter's Chirurg. Bililiothek, 5Gb. pi. i. f. 1, 2, 3. (jj) 5- RRuns, Dissert, de talipede varo. Berol., 182/.CLUB-FOOT. 182 should be made with the thumb against the little wound, to squeeze out the * I blood and to prevent the entrance of air; the wound is to be covered with some strips of sticking plaster and wadding, which are fastened with some turns of a lightly-applied roller. The patient is then to be carried i to bed, and the foot plaeed in a suitable position. Thilenius (a), Michaelis (6), and Sartorius (c) cut through the tendon simul- taneously with the skin. Delpech thrust the blade of a bistoury behind the Achilleju tendon, so that on both sides a skin wound is produced about an inch long; a convex knife is then introduced, with the edge of which towards the tendon he divides i transversely, without wounding the skin above it. Stromeyer thrusts in a narrov curved fistula-knife about two inches above the heel, behind the Achilles’ tendon, am out at the other side, and cuts through it in withdrawing the knife. Stoess makes with a narrow double-edged bistoury, which he thrusts in flat behind the Achilles* tendon, a wound two and a half inches wide, without perforating the skin on the othe side, draws the bistoury back, and introducing a button-ended one, slightly curved, am cutting on to a slight extent, with which he divides the tendon. Bouvier (rf) makes :■ slight puncture in the skin with the point of a lancet a few lines before the tendon where it is thinnest and strongest, and introduces through this puncture a straigb. I narrow button-ended tenotome between the skin and tendon, and cuts through fron f before backwards. Guerin brings his narrow tenotome, slightly rounded in from L through a previously made small skin-wound beneath the tendon. Scoutette I stretches the skin with the fingers of the left hand, at the same time drawing it some I what inwards, and thrusts in the tenotome at the inner side of the tendon, canning i I from behind forwards and from within outwards, without penetrating the skin on tb j opposite side; he now depresses the handle, draws the knife backwards and forward** j and the tendon is divided. Dieffenbach and others practise in the above-mentioni- j wiiy. j* J [(1) I never use any other than a common phimosis-knife, which I pass flat before tb tendon, till I can feel its point against, but without penetrating the skin on the outside c the leg; then turn the edge to the tendon, which being made tense by an assistaiu I and pressed against the knife with the left thumb, I cut through with the end of tb i j knife as I withdraw it.—J. F. S.] 1379. When after from three to five days the little wound lias closet- the return of the foot to its natural position is to be set about with i machine, which gradually effects the necessary apparent change of posbj tion. Stoess’ apparatus best answers this purpose. The return of thi foot to its natural place ensues more quickly or more slowly according t the degree and duration of the curvature ; all violence must be avoidei and by the gradual reinforced degree of extending the foot and prop* soft pads, all painful pressure and excoriation are lo be avoided. Wbei the foot is brought to its natural position, Scarpa’s apparatus may t applied and the patient allowed to walk. The movements of the foot ai at first uncertain and stiff, but they improve by exercise, and in simuM proportion does the atrophic condition of the muscles diminish, to wnio end rubbing at the same time with spirits may somewhat contribute. Delpech’s apparatus (e), Stromeyer’s (/), Sooutetten’s (</), and Pauli s(//) are used for this purpose. Pauli, when after two or three days the little wound ,s surrounds the foot with a mould of plaster of Paris, which he makes in a • jointed wooden boot and leaves to harden. If the proper position of the foot canm* at once effected, he renews it frequently (1). ... . . ... ArM1,u In not very great curvature, the foot often at once, after the division ot tnc a tendon, can be restored to its natural position, and in these cases the extending may be at once applied. In most cases, however, this is impossible, or pain, (a) Medicinische und chirurgische Bemerkungen. Fr*nkf., 1789. p. 3S5. p, (6) Ueber die Scliivachung dcr Sehne durch (d) Bulletin de IAcademie de Med H Einsclineidung, als einem Mittel bei manchon Glicderverunstaltungen; in Hufei-anii's and Himi.y’s Journal, vol. vi. Nov. 18.11, p. 3. (c) Sieboi.d’s Sammlung seltener und auserle- senorchirurgischen Beobachtungen, vol. iii. p- 2J8. Decemlier, 183S. (e) Above cited, pi. ix. (e) Above If) PI. iii. On pi- vi. \h) Above oiled, fig.DIVISION OF TENDONS. 183 _ - ® ination, and so on, are too easily excited by the extending force ; it is therefore best to j commence the setting straight first when the little wound has healed, (Stromeyer, Dieffenbach, Stoess, myself, and others,) (2), and not immediately after the operation (Thilenius, Michaelis, Sartorius, Delpech, Bouvier, Pauli, Duval, Blasius.) f(l) When I first began to operate on cases of varus, I had not any opportunity of either beiug acquainted with or seeing Stromeyer’s apparatus, which I think is by far the best instrument for treating these cases I know of, aud I used Boyer’s splint for fractured thigh, with the shoe, which I first fastened on the foot, and then having fixed it upon the projecting bar, gradually, from day to day, drew down the upper end of the splint to the plane of the thigh-bone as the patient could bear it; for although when the shoe was firmly fixed, the length of the splint was so great, that it produced such powerful leverage as to overcome every resistance to placing the foot immediately in its proper position, yet I was afraid of attempting it at once, on account of the violence which would have been needed, and the pain the patient would have suffered; for even in the way I used it, the patient suffered considerably from the stress of the shoe-straps, and constantly sought to relieve himself, so that almost daily the foot was found more or less displaced, however well it had been arranged on the previous day, and therefore the progress of the cure retarded. I therefore altered my plan, and instead of at once attempting to turn the sole down and flex the leg upon the foot, I first endeavoured to get the foot straight with the leg, leaving the toe pointed, and the heel raised, or in other words, to convert the club-foot into horse-foot, and afterwards gradually to flex the foot on the leg from day to day. The first part of the proceeding was effected by Boyer’s splint and shoe, with the simple alteration of making the foot-bar, upon which the shoe was fixed, round instead of square, so that when the bar was entered into its socket, the sole of the foot was readily turned down without making any flexion upon the leg, the socket moving on the oar as the toe pointed, which it is always first disposed to do after the division of the Achilla’ tendon. After a few days, when the patient had become accustomed to this new position, I began gradually to flex the foot on the leg, by slipping the foot-piece nto the foot-piece of the stirrup apparatus for fractured knee-cap, the circular bandage )f which was fixed above the knee, and then gradually shortened the screw rod as the oatient could bear the stress upon the ball of the great toe, which was considerable. This answered the purpose, but it was a very clumsy contrivance, and I soon managed o contrive a more simple and efficacious instrument, which consisted of a pair of long larrow splints, like Boyer’s splint, one for the outside, and the other for the inside of he leg and thigh, which were connected at bottom by the circular bar on which the foot- nece moved, and upon the leg and thigh, by three or four straps and buckles. For lexing the foot, a stud was placed on each edge of the foot-piece, near its toe end, upon .ach of which a leather strap fastened, by which the toe end of the foot-piece could be trawn up, and the foot flexed on the leg, to such extent as might be wished ; and this leing determined, the other end of each strap was fastened on a stud in the side of the [orresponding splint upon the thigh. This apparatus I have used very frequently and successfully, and with children it erves every purpose required, if the Surgeon be content to restore the straight position ' the foot first, and afterwards to flex it. The instrument has the advantage of being asily made by a common carpenter and smith, and with little expense, even if a new SraowJwl f°r eTierjlCaSe treatecL 1 do not presume to put in it competition with Z ’ 051E'f;us excellent apparatus, which cannot always be obtained when required is ■»- pensive, and needs some little practice for its proper employment. It is, however a lexL^of thlnfram™l’ and effects at the same time the flattening of the sole and the uopewly adj listed1 " ^ llttle m°re than a feellnS of confinement to the patient, if it be livulU/^T Whh djose wbo P^fer leaving the limb at rest for a few days after ,egan bv DuttW °tbi V i^' pat,'ent then bears the extension with less pain. 3 I first lecessarv- ! ! \the llnJb P*ace at once after the operation, but finding it often ;reater satisfaifiom-J 1 ^ * UP’ ^ pUrSUed the 0ther Practice with oe?a,?fl ^ ‘‘I61'0 be ?resent with club-foot, considerable bending of the S is FtrltCTiTty 0f t!,ie S0le 0f the foot’ in wllich case the plantar •ior?of tin T G a C°rd “ attemPting to extend the foot, the divi- ng the cu/^ VS nieC6SSary (1)* lf the f00t be strongly drawn inwards, curving of its outer edge be so considerable that the great toe184 DIVISION OP PLANTAR FASCIA. and the inner edge of the foot are much contracted, then the. tendons of the m. tibialis anticus and extensor proprius pollicis must be divided. In greater bending inwards of the foot, so that it can only with the greatest force be moved towards the horizontal axis of the shin-bone, the tendons of the m. tibialis posticus and extensor proprius pollicis must be cut through In dividing the plantar fascia, the heel and toes should be strongly drawn asunder by an assistant, by which the fascia is still more stretched and projected, the knife is to be introduced, Hat, on the inner edge oi the foot under the fascia, its edge should then be turned and the fascia cut through as it is withdrawn, without injuring the skin on the opposite side, which I have often done with ease. The tendon of the m. tibialis anticus may in this way be divided at the lower end of the shin-bone, where it projects very greatly beneath the skin ; also the tendon of the m. extensor pollicis proprius, to the outer side of which the anterior tibial artery lies, and may be easily avoided. The division of the tendon of the m. tibialis posticus is made half an inch above the inner ankle; the nail of the left forefinger is to be placed over the posterior tibial artery, and the point of a curved knife carried to the bone, and forwards upon it, divides the tendon (2). A cut three-fourths of an inch long is made more convem- ently along the course of the tendon above the inner ankle; the .loot is then turned outwards, and the exposed tendon divided with the point ot a knife (Stromeyer.) The tendon of the m. flexor pollicis longus is cut through near the inner edge of foot, where, when violently stretched, it projects between those of the m. flexor pollicis brevis and of the m. adductor pollicis, beneath the skin, without thrusting the knife out at the other side [(1) Shortening of the inner portion of the plantar fasna, producmg^eat diminutm in the length, with considerable elevation of the inside of the arch of the foot, in which case the great toe generally stands almost upright, instead of resting horizontally on ?he ’^oungd I have feen several times, independent of any disposition to club-footj have usually cured it without difficulty, by thrusting a p/iimo^s-kmfe on ^ ™ of the foot, opposite the base of the great metatarsal bone, between the skm and /^ and dividing the latter in withdrawing the knife. No apparatus isrequisite,Tut alter three or four days, when the weight of the body can be borne, the patient is to W directed to walk about a little, so that the the newly-formed connecting materis gradu- ally lengthened, and the arch of the foot drops to its natural level; the great toe also it tb*j'^"TheTivSon6^oVthe1 tendon of the m. tibialis posticus is the only one whl<^f requires muSh anatomical knowledge or care, on account of the close neighbourhood^ the posterior tibial artery, which I once divided in performmgthisopemUon ot acWd it bled very smartly for a few minutes, and having enlarged the wound, I attempt take it upfbut the ends had retracted so much, that I could not succeed, and therefore thought best to bring the edges of the wound together and appl> a compress, took^lace^and°no lunmorrhage occurred. I have been told that such accident are^not very unfrequent, and that no inconvenience follows ; but theie can be o better avoided.—J. F. S.] 1381 If the patient be kept quiet, ordinarily no important symptoms come on ; I have not, at least, observed any in my own practme; an thev occur, they would depend rather on the patient s constituti on the operation itself, if properly conducted. Should inflammation ensue, and if it be not dispersed by cold applications, the pits nn- 1 evacuated and by proper treatment the extension of the supp • ^fX^nof t.ve1 tendon prevented. If after this operation, and if m some cases of old and \erj co occur185 SPLAY-FOOT. ibly curved club-foot the result of this operation be not perfect, or even iot considerable, and which indeed cannot be previously ensured, yet they lo not damage the value of this operation. Even in the earliest child- lood it may be employed. Blasius supposes that the operation, when applied to true club-foot, that is, to severe ■ases, where it alone can be preferred, effects little or nothing; that it rather only ipplies to spurious club-foot, and especially to slight cases. Club-foot is a complication if anomalies : and that the inversion is the most important point; but the operation is iirected against only one anomaly, and not at once against the most important. Many ;roups of muscles participate in the vicious position; the operation is only directed riinst the muscles of the calf,—at most against the m. tibialis anticus or some one the others. Atrophy of the leg is always present, and against it can the operation e of no use. This opinion is contradicted by what has been already said, and by the sperience both of others and myself. Against Blasids’s opinion of the propriety of mputation in such states of club-foot, compare Stroheyer (a). b.—OF SPLAY-FOOT. ( Valgus, Lat.; Plattfuss, Germ.; Pied-plat, Fr.) Bochetmann, Inaug. Abh. iiber die Plattfuss. Erlangen, 1830; with plates. Nevermann, Ueber den Plattfuss und seine Heilung; with a plate; in Hamburger eitschnft, vol. iv. part 11. 1837. . 6 Stromeyeb, above cited, p. 99. Dieffenbach, above cited, p. 127. 1382. Splay-foot, the reverse of club-foot, is a frequently occurring iformity, in which there is not any actual twisting, but rather only such iclination of the toot outwards that the inner ankle projects very much id descends lower than natural, that beneath the outer ankle is a more less deep depression, the natural arching of the back of the foot and lie cavity of the sole and of the inner edge of the sole are lost, and the rot touches the ground at once with the whole sole, and is widest at the nGerfythe foot is unusuaiiyco]d’dusk? ^ - wSv*1* >st-bitten, but, however, much disposed to sweat, so that it is always STm °Uthe SOl1 IS /°ft’ and without the usual hardness and I t f In ,Walklrf ’ spjay-footed persons direct the knee inwards and " rrrds’so hat they mostiy tread °n the inside of the foot llint of thTfZVemenCf X Spla,y;f00t are’ SPeedy fati^ue in walking, ellmg of the foot around the ankles, and soreness of the soles of the t 'tL • fhiah acc°unt Persons so affected are not fit for military service ie infantry From the continual straining of the feet even ohronip |.tarx°"f„‘te,lifme,llS a"d s;,|;oviaI membranes arises, by which merely pan, bn, also serous exudation among the tarsal bones takes « thomI “r,eqT,reS rest’ Vy Wl,ich the transilien to caries is prevents ‘ Tor WrofiwLr,TrkaMe *hat a<M»"s °f “» «■>*> arising : -rays remarkab]y stubbornerS(HIS’ especially Inflammatl°ns and ulcers, are I lartunnenf of"th be f *i,n«"ished from Broad-foot, which is simply an thSSil “*1 *br"i f ,‘,he f00t on the extension f iquent use (£)? ’ 16 to t le raetatarsal bones, caused by their *0 The Circular to tl,e‘p CA?PEn’8 Wochenscbrift, 1836. Nos. 34,35 •bowing the difference of'Bro”d and^X examination of recruits ; inSPLAY-FOOT. 186 1384. Splay-foot is either congenital, and shows itself in different degrees directly after birth, as I have several times noticed, in which tfierf is unyieldingness of the m. peronci, especially of the m. peronem longus, and the ailment is certainly caused by the position of the child in the womb; or it is developed later, rarely in the female sex and in c nldien under ten years. There is probably a congenital disposition in the position ofu the tarsal bones, or atony of the plantar fascia and tarsal ligaments, where first, at a subsequent period, and from straining in standing walking, and so on, splay-foot is developed, and the heel-bone is so twisted inwards that its outer surface inclines more upwards, and the innei mowj downwards at the same time. The position of the other tarsal bom*- and their joints is little changed ; the head of the astragalus and cubrndi bone often project rather more inwards. In many families, especially among Jews, splay-foot is hereditary. Continual standing, especially with bare feet upon the damp ground, and much work influence its d \elopi ment. In the higher classes splay-foot very rarely occurs. itself ^unken^^h^HgamraTs,^es^ciall^t^^dOTsal^li^inents, those^betwa- and navicular bone, but still more, the plantar ^ d°elto d mamem, and the two bones are very much stretched. The frontfibres of ^ Jeltoul ^ ligamentum fibulare tali anticum, are a so c surface 0f the astragalus, and rests only on the hindermost part of ?CwiX ^d Ae splm bone more out. thereby the navicular bone is removed more ™ 0f^snlav foot in atony of the wards from the navicular bone. Stkomeyer places the cameot splay mot^e ^ ^ plantar fascia and of the tarsal ligaments. s «y tlie hbial muscles and ol arch, and contrariwise inclines outwards, because < the those of the calf, which properly presstheoueredge of^e tot andtbe °a“one in£rd, toe against the ground, in less strength of the ankle J° ’ ,°ftl same bone. Atony which at the same time is accompanied with a driving forwards - degm of the leg is not to be considered as one of the causesbTascribS * of bad cases all the muscles are in such stretched condition that can | atTuuNE (e) distinguishes primitive and ^Lhfngof tdTmusdes on tX>" fully developed at birth, and accompanied with a strdching attempted to pot and^uter part of the leg, which increases «nd ^omm lou,anu the foot straight; but the foot itself is no t ‘ , • constantly accompanied'wA fat Lancet, March, 1835. , „„ ' ' (d) Nevebmann, above cited. (/,) chirurg. Kupfert. pi. 33.1. Nevebmann, above cited. Archives generates de Medeclne, 1834.. W187 TREATMENT. U thick below and above, so that the knee appears as if deformed; the back of the foot I (instep) is very much arched; and walking is performed generally not with bended ■ knees. In splay-foot the axis of the foot is not changed, the ankle is very prominent, is ■lower than usual, and touches the ground ; the whole sole of the foot touches the earth ; ■ below the outer ankle a cavity is formed, the depth of which depends on the degree of the deformity; the heel cannot be drawn up; the outer ankle is distinctly felt; the muscles of the calf are not greatly wasted; the back of the foot is not properly arched, but hits at the tarsus an unnatural flattening and breadth ; walking is generally per- formed with the knees bent. This distinction, however, depends on no actual difference, but is only consequent on simultaneous contraction of the muscles, that is, those of the calf, and on shortening of the Achilles’ tendon; therefore, in such cases, the division of that tendon may be sufficient (a). 1385. In slighter degrees of splay-foot, and in young persons, the foot may be rubbed twice a-day with spirituous fluids, then wrapped up in a bandage, moistened with spirits of wine ; cold baths are to be taken from time to time, or a laced leather stocking worn, which equally encloses the foot and leg, and a shoe, with a strong tin plate, which is convex from behind forwards to the metatarsal bones. According to Dupuytren, a shoe, with a flexible elastic sole, and raised in height from half to three- quarters of an inch ; according to Rognetta, a raised shoe, together with swathing the foot in a bandage moistened with camphorated spirit, which is to be looked to and tightened twice a-day; according to Stromeyer, a boot, in the middle of which a piece of leather is fastened, confining the middle of the foot from below, upwards, and from within, outwards, then runs pointed, and is fastened by a slit in the upper leather at the outside of the foot, to a buckle. In weakly persons an internal strengthening treatment is at the same time proper. In old persons, and in a high degree f splay-foot, exutories are to be kept long to the sole of the foot, blisters upon its inner edge and on one part of the sole, and suppuration kept up ' y acrid ointment, for the protection of the foot-swathing, and a laced boot Stromeyer.) Liston recommends a plaster of mercury and iodine to the swelling of the front end of the first metatarsal bone, and if this he insufficient, the head of the bone is to be xremoved with cutting forceps. If the splay-foot be great and dependent on diseased contraction of the muscles, against diwliich mechanical assistance is fruitless, Held (6) proposes dividing the m. peronei and indeed the tendons of the longus and medius. The peronei contained in a common sheath are most prominent from four to six lines above the outer ankle; a double-edged bistoury is to be introduced flat beneath them from behind forwards, and the edge turned gainst them. The tendon of the m. peroneus medius has here still some muscular hbres. The tendons of these muscles are enclosed in proper sheaths from four to six i lines under or before the ankle, but they lie so close together that they can he divided S^at the same time, as the knife is introduced between them and the heel-bone, from aabove downwards, and somewhat from before, backwards. The tendons of the m. I medius may be divided also four or five lines from the base of the fifth meta- 1 tarsal bone. ® the cases of splay-foot which I have seen, the cause of the mischief appeal’s to have en principally in the inner plantar, or calcaneo-navicular ligament; and it is gene- •auy accompanied with tenderness in this neighbourhood. I have usually directed nU.L leechln6 1,11 a11 tenderness had subsided, and perfect rest; but the relief has 'my been temporary.—J. F. S.J > (“) Stromeveii's case, above cited, p. 95. (i) Above cited, p. 63.[ 188 ] c.—OF HORSE-FOOT. (.Pes equinus, Lat.; Pferdefuss, Spitzfuss, Germ.; Pied dquin, Fr.) Joro, Ueber die Verkrummungen, p. 77. Zimmerman, Der Klumpfuss und Pferdefuss. Leipzig, 1830. Dieffenbach, Bonnet, and Phillips, above cited. 1386. Horse-foot is that malformation in which the whole splay-foot hass- one and the same direction with the leg; the heel is considerably drawn up, so that in walking the patient only treads with his toes, and especially with the ball of the great toe. The Achilles’ tendon is very tense,?, the foot at the same time so arched that the convexity of the back • and the concavity of the sole are increased. In the greatest degree so complete a turning about of the foot may be produced, that the tip of the foot is turned backwards, and the patient walks entirely on the instep (a). 11 1387. The cause of this ailment lies in an unnatural contraction of the muscles of the calf; subsequently also the m. plantar is and plantar fascia,i the m. tibialis posticus and peroneus longus shorten, and the curvature is; increased. In a very high degree of this ailment the joint surfaces of the astragalus are so far pushed forward, that they are nearly out of contact with the shin-bone, which rests almost entirely upon the back part of the lieel-bone; however, it is frequently observed that in long continued and severe horse-foot, the tarsal joints are not particularly changed, but that i there is a considerable removal of the front ends of the metatarsal bones from their connexion with the toes, inasmuch as they bear the chief weight in walking, in consequence of the toes being so much turned upwards. Horse-foot is congenital or acquired ; the latter is most common, because, - if at the time when the Achilles’ tendon is shortened the ankle-joint have not yet attained sufficient firmness, partly from the deficient development of the ligaments, partly from that of the ankles, and especially of the inner, club-foot is quickly produced by the simultaneous shortening of the m. tibialis anticus and posticus. Some inclination of the foot inwards is, - however, frequently observed in horse-foot. Diseased change in the tarsal i bones may also give rise to similar displacement. _ _ JH 1388. In reference to the causes, all that has been said in general, and* on club-foot, applies here (1). The treatment consists in the employment of baths, relaxing rubbings of the contracted muscles of the calf and their tendons, in manipulations, » for the purpose of bringing down the heel and raising the front of the foot, * which position must be maintained by the apparatus of Jorg (&), Stbo-> MEYER, Stoess, and others. In a great degree and long continuance ot horse-foot, no perfect cure is effected by this treatment, even though i • be long persisted in ; and the only division of the Achilles’ tendon an the subsequent application of proper apparatus, as in club-foot, in a shor time can restore the straight position of the foot. If the back of the> f instep j be very much arched and the plantar fascia stretched like a co > its division is mostly necessary. Stromeyer also cut through, in sow cases, the tendons of the m. flexor longus and extensor polhcis, on acco of a permanent improper position of the gieat toe (a) ST)I.Z. Memoiro but une varietc particulars cnees de Bisklim. Strasbourg, ISA vol. »'• 4 du l’ied-bot; in the Journal de la Boefeti ^18& HOOK-FOOT. Jorg’s apparatus consists of a shoe like that of Scarpa's for club-foot; on the auter side of which an iron rod ascends to the knee and is fastened round the leg with i strap. At the lower part of this rod is a spring furnished with a stop-wheel, to which an iron rod is attached, which runs forwards along the foot. A strap carried round the front of the foot is affixed to the end of this rod, by which the foot is always drawn up (2). [(1) Amoug the causes which produce permanent contraction of the gastrocnemial muscles and consequent horse-foot, may be enumerated ulceration, of which I had a good case in 1837, in a strumous girl, whose heel was raised four inches from the ground, the muscles being much shrunk in the calf, and the scar of the skin closely connected with chem. The motions of both knee and ankle being perfectly free when the knee was :>ent, I divided the Achilles’ tendon, and she was cured completely. I had also, in the same year, a case of horse-foot under my care, which followed a lalsy of the left arm and leg during teething, first at ten months, and next at two years >f age, from which, however, when three years old, the patient had recovered so far as o walk about with the aid of a stick or crutch ; and when about sixteen, he was able sometimes to walk even without a stick. Towards the end of the following year the leel began to leave the ground, and slowly rose still higher till he was twenty years ild, when it was at least four inches from the ground, and had so continued when I saw lim a twelvemonth after, (Sept. 1837,) the tarsus and metatarsus being then on the ame plane as the front of the leg, and the foot resting only on the ball of the great toe. The foot was livid and pappy, and when lifted off the ground, dangled at the ankle- oint, both flexor and extensor muscles appearing to be paralysed. Although, under hese circumstances, relief from division of the Achilles’ tendon seemed to be very r.oubtful, I thought it worth while performing the operation, so that the sole might be irought to the ground, and then that attempts might be made to excite the muscles on he front of the leg to action. The tendon was therefore divided in the usual manner n Sept. 30, which brought the sole again flat, and its position was preserved by the itirrup and rod attached to a circular knee-strap, and the foot was gradually more exed by shortening the rod as he could bear it. After wearing this apparatus six reeks, the foot, on its removal, was found still to drop, but not to the same extent . "'as directed to try to move about on crutches, and to throw some of the weight of is body upon it; but the attempt produced severe pain in the muscles of the inside of ie leg, which lasted a few hours, and then subsided. On the following day the luscles in the anterior tibial region were electrified for about a quarter of an hour he foot however still dropping, the stirrup was reapplied; and five days after he was We to bear upon the foot, wearing the stirrup, without pain. About a month after he fitt the house, the sole of the foot was then flat on the ground, and the foot itself at ight angle with the leg; but the muscles in the anterior tibial region were still anting in tone. I have seen him several times since; the operation has succeeded so r “ recovery of the position of the foot is concerned, but the muscles have not igained their power, and he is obliged to walk with a stick or crutches. The result is case, as well also as of those vari already mentioned as following palsy from ettung, led me in two or three instances to try the effect of dividing the Achilles’ Gained h°rse'f°°t wa* just be£inninS in children so paralysed, but no benefit ■ i2) 3!’Paratu's 1 have described for the treatment of club-foot, (par. 1379, note 1 even the fractured patella stirrup, will answer very well for drawing and fixing up eJZllD a ,Pr0.pcy Position. Indeed, this distortion of the foot is the most easy of ram fivP.wl1 Tf f ^ed bJi a careful person merely with a shoe having tap Is or ebeedJFsT’ fastened above on either side of a circular banda|e above d.—OF HOOK-FOOT. ( Talus, Lat.; Hakenfuss, Germ.; Pied-bot calcarien, Fr.) 13S9. Hook or Heel-foot consists in the tip of the foot being directed irm«n an( ,Its back t?wards the frorit of the shin-bone, so that the foot stenniniCUtb ^ f W1,th the leS’ often even rests on the shin-bone, and f 3’ thf heel only touches the ground. This deformity is always omb t^1’and. manifestly consequent on the position of the foetus in the omb. Often immediately after birth, when tl.e foot is very much drawnIIOOK-FOOT. 190 up, even if, as I have frequently noticed, it lie upon the shin-bone, it may be brought, by slight force, into its proper place. T he contracted muscles ■ are the m. tibialis anlicus, extensor proprius polltcis, and frequently the • m. extensor communis digitorum pedis, the tendons of which form cord-like projections beneath the skin when the foot is proper y placed Ihejoint connexion between the heel and cuboid bone, and the astragalus and 4 navicular bone appear to suffer most; but the cuneiform bones are also drawn back and their joint-surfaces separated from each other in the sojj[ of the foot. The point of the foot is also at the same time often turned d outwards if the m. extensor communis act violently. 1390. In all the cases which I have hitherto seen soon after birth, ltd was easv to bring the foot straight, and by means of a curved splint, Jkstenec^ with^a 'bandage on the lent of the h* and of to keep it so, and in a short time to effect a cure If the ailment be* permanent and the contracting muscles opposed, this treatment, or the application of a suitable splint, in which case a more considerable atrophy i of the lee; shows itself than in other curvatures, the division of the stretched<! tendons,“where they project most considerably under the skin, is mw*< certainly efficient. which' struck her right foot across the heads f the the pain, it across tne neaus ui me > , . , the middle of the sole, with pain n the instep, as it a com ^ ^ ^ ^ months ^ shooting pain up the front of the leg a & ,, , t uer f00t t0 the ground, but has pain has been so severe that she has not been ^ undergoing walked on crutches ; and once came into the hospi a tt ^p rp_^ justifiable. At amputation, which however the Suigeon n(j ap the toes raised at nearly present the foot is fixed at right ang , nfthp^miisclesin the tibial region have right angles with the insteP «f her sole°and heel, : outer edge of the sole. There J® P d posterior tibial and outer cutaneous. “toSinhaehCanUdThreadth ‘of the tubercle ‘of the shin-hone, causes great pun symptoms were produced by ffie branches of the anterior tibial nerve had.received at the tunei ofthe ace ^ ^ for she was probably in a condition 61^2flrl ?0lte hS™nic years since cutout which Sewell ofthe Royal its sensibility had been ssZSwxx! zsrzsxt r»i.«. * m tibialis anticus and m. extensor proprius polhcis, “J^ whilst the nerve carefully separated, an inch of it was removed. She suffered extren e wm was being disturbed, hut after its division the Pam ceased, and die instep ^ ^ gnd edges of the wound were brought together v P ^ • gli ht pain hi the great toe. brought together wun puisie.. v—" - => , ~eat toe. applied191 CURVATURES OF THE UPPER LIMBS. (inces, followed the removal of the poultice, but stopped by pressure for ten minutes, ,d afterwards a compress of lint was bound on the wound. A slight oozing, however, .ntinued, and on the following evening, bleeding recurred, and a similar quantity of ood was lost; it was temporarily restrained by pressure and the wound having been eared of blood, an aneurysm-needle was passed beneath the anterior tibial artery, hieh was then tied with a single ligature. Unfortunately after this time my notes fail, and I cannot get any satisfactory informa- >n, except that the woman did not undergo any second operation, and that she left e house four months after still upon crutches, but under what circumstances I cannot -certain.—J. F. S.j II.—OF CURVATURES OF THE UPPER LIMBS. [These curvatures, excepting the fingers, are much less frequent than ose of the lower limbs. A.—OF CURVATURES OF THE SHOULDER. These are of very rare occurrence, the weight of the arm constantly pre- rving its position close to the side, and antagonising any of the larger uscles by the contraction of which, alteration of its ordinary situation 'uld be effected. In the contraction of the shoulder the arm is therefore nned to the side, and the treatment consists merely in the application blisters, or other irritating remedies for the purpose of inducing absorp- m of the interstitial deposit originating in rheumatic, or other inflamma- )n °f the soft parts about the joint; and the cautious use of extending paratus, or passive motion, as the case may be. The division of the tendons, as performed by Dieffenbach for the replacement of ong unreduced dislocation at the shoulder-joint, might certainly be applied to cases contracted shoulder, but I should think little advantage could be hoped from it B—OF CURVATURES OF THE ELBOW. Curvatures at this joint, although very commonly resulting from cm- ylosis, or inflammatory deposit in the soft parts about the joints, are, in re instances, consequent on contraction of the m. biceps flexor cubiti, n m. brachialis anticus. If arising from the former muscle, any attempt extending the arm throws its tendon up, as it passes over the front of the oow-joint, in form of a cord ; by which the nature of the ailment is stinctly indicated. j^^bbmg and passive motion, and the extending apparatus be unavail- r it will be necessary to divide the tendon of the m. biceps beneath the am the same way as the Achilles’ tendon is divided, and afterwards XVL u Slmp 6 SpHnt °n the front of the whole lengthe of te arm, • with a bandage to straighten it gradually, as the patient can bear it o make use of the extending apparatus.—.t. f. s.] si i C ~0F CURVATURES OF THE HAND. ,stlvdenenfViatUreS °f the *!and are more rare than those of the foot, and rmanent birr" un"at'\ral ac.tivi.lY of the muscles. There is either j pination nr ° tie wrist-joint, with simultaneous pronation or nt. ’ Permanent straightening, or the fingers are permanently[ 192 J a.—OF PERMANENT BENDING OF THE HAND. 1392. In permanent Bending, the hand forms with the fore-arm amor or less right angle, and is at the same time in a state of increased prona : tion and adduction, or of increased supination. In both cases the linger are strongly bent. The bones and ligaments of the carpus are separate* from eacli other and outspread behind, but in front (volar surface) am contracted, and form a depression. The hand and fore-arm are more o less atrophic. „ , , , - .. Lode (a) distinguishes these two kinds of curvature of the hand, Tahporm flexor pronata seu Talipomanus vara and Talipomanus fiex0T supviala seu altp, manus valqa. All the muscles which bend the whole hand and fingers, and increase tl concavity of the hand, in the one case, the pronators, and in the other, the supinator are contracted at once. , 1393 This curvature of the hand may be congenital or acquired. A to its causes, all that has been said upon club-foot applies. I have notice curvature of the hand as a congenital deformity, once accompanvm club-foot and once with horse-foot on the same side. The treatment mus be conducted entirely according to the rules laid down for club-loot. A proper apparatus for straightening the hand is found in Lode, fig. 3. 5 OF PERMANENT STRAIGHTENING OF THE HAND. 1394 Permanent Stretching of the Hand, in which its back is nr tasted ’ in a greater or less degree, towards the fore-arm, and is at h; same time in a state of increased abduction or adduction, occurs rareljf and in reference to its aetiology and treatment, all that has been previously said applies. T ode calls this curvature Talipomanus extensa. All the extending muscles of tt L well .1.0 sometimes those museles which flatlet, the hand, sea, times the adductors and abductors, are contracted. c OF PERMANENT BENDING OF THE FINGER. Dopuytren, Retraction permanente des Doigts ; Lemons Orales de Clinique Chinr gicale, vol. i. pt. i. p. 117. , , 1395. A permanent Bending of one or more Fingers may depend o various causes, namely, on diseased changes of the p^haknges on chvis. of the tendons or palsy of the extensors, on a contracting sjmthepdn on destruction of the tendons and sheaths or contraction of the bendm muscles of the hand, and contraction and unyieldingness of the fascia. The diagnosis of these various causes is really unattended H ‘any difficulty, and depends on the kind of origin, or the perhaps e\ s ■ SCar or the possibility of moving some of the finger-joints, or on violent straightening the finger and soon. In this respect the curvature of tl finder is most important, as consequent on contraction o te pa n because, with definite diagnosis, the cure may be surdy 1396. The curvature consequent on contraction of the palmar/*** shows itself especially at the ring-finger, mostiy in pemons who are si^ to hard labour, as resulting from inflammatory affection. After ^ ♦inn of the hand pain frequently conies on, which, howe\er, s ." The fingers are gradually straightened with difficulty, and the ring- gl («) A'oovc cited.193 TREATMENT. ijftgins (o curve into the palm, at the onset only the first joint bends, but e others follow its movements. In proportion as the ailment proceeds e ring-finger bends still more. At this period no knotty swelling is yet It on the palmar surface of the ring-finger ; its last two joints are raight and movable. The first joint is bent at a more or less right igle, it is movable in its connexion with the metacarpus, but the greatest olence cannot straighten it. If the ring-finger be considerably bent, the in in the palm presents a fold in the direction of the concavity, wards the ring-finger, and the convexity towards the wrist. If the Imar surface of this finger be felt, a stretched cord is found, the point which is directed towards the first joint, and which may be followed to e upper part of the palm. If the finger be bent, this disappears ; but, if straightening be attempted, the tendon of the m. palmaris longus is ought into motion, which extends to the upper part of the palmar fascia, d the cord is more tightly stretched. SAccording to Goyraud (a) the retraction of the tendinous cords depends on new mations, which pass from the fascia to the sheathof the tendon, from it to the lateral pts of the phalanges, and even from one phalanx to another. These bridges are, vever, merely growths of the bridges existing in the natural state. Sanson (6) also [ieves that this is the usual cause, and the contraction of the palmar fascia only the Option. f the bending of the finger depend on contraction of the bending muscles, a :k cord is felt, in attempting to straighten it, under the fascia; the m. palmaris pains immovable, but the bending muscles on the fore-arm are stretched. In a scar, th the muscles attached to it, stretching movements cause pain in the same part; if p ^an(l. be p>e.np towards the fore-arm, then the patient can straighten his finger. In jsy, or in division of the tendons of the straightening muscles, the finger is kept per- .nently shut into the hand, but it may be straightened with a little force, no tight cord celt, and all the joints are free. In diseased changes in the joints, the finger is more or s bent; the anchylosed phalanges are immovable; but the others can be moved, and no lit cord is felt in the palm. Many occupations give rise to deformity of the joints t,le.phalanges without anchylosis, but with permanent bending; thus is the little B|®r,ln knitters and seamstresses; so the ring-finger, and often several fingers of the Hnt hand, m tailors; and in lace-makers the four last fingers of both hands are curved S*T f° 0n,’ C0„nseTience of habit; no cord-like stretching is, however, noticed in the V ’ a.n.d th® anger may still be somewhat straightened. Scars may he easily distin- p fsnen by their tension in attempting to straighten the finger. >|1397. That the cause of this crooking of the finger is an excessive > usion of the palmar fascia, which has arisen from pressure, and bruising *’ .,ard handi'v'°rk, Dupuytren has proved by careful observation, and ^ \ ie successful division of this aponeurosis. Rubbing, bathing, mecha- K.flfaPmuat1US’ an? the like’ have usually no result, or only transient 1 A- 1 ie matter I noticed in a considerable curvature of the" ring-fineer i dmani!n iTel ir\uVhich’ by continued use of gray mercurial ointment, turtlv a blhs’ the proper positlon ancl mobility were restored; but slrnLi , , reraedies ^re given up, the .finger again became | Lt pJ crooked us formerly. The division of the palmar aponeurosis ■■ e junction nf A transverse cut is made through the skin opposite to b etS 6 firS, pba anx with the metacarpal bone, and then the IKsSfeneT ^ “ tHe ^ dirGCti°n- If the fi»g^ cannot iod second nh!r ’a transv.erse cut must be made at the joint of the first ISe curved \°r m thG middle °f the first P^lanx. If all the Blow the forme?’ a 'anrerSC,CUt must be made an inch and a quarter mer one in the palm of the hand, and the aponeurosis divided. 0 Schmidt's Jahrbucher, 1833. p. 248. VOL. II. (6) Gazette Medicate, 1833.1. 8 August.194 TREATMENT OF BENT FINGERS. The wound is to be covered with lint, and upon the back of the hand a flat p7eceof wood attached; on the front part, which has divisions cor. responding to the Wed " WS JfZZl 1 ^narrow and stretched like a cord, it is best to determine on its subcutaneous division («) 3 subcutaneous envision \u)- j. • j cL-in transversely as Dupuytren docs, because, in J&S&£*Z£*. m in the thin “ '* gitudinally, and through the bridge transversely. I udinally, and througn tne uriugc v _ , , . 1398 If the cause of the finger crooking be a scar, it must be treated* 1398. nine hereafter mentioned. In contraction of the like, are incurable ^enonmiy has^eenvarioi^ly employed in TOnbactiim oMhe ^diu^endoiisanc 18 .. a ave rented in the bones them- selvefof the extremities, or in SSSJ- rds=TheaSn membranom, and grachsthefasou. lata m the rege nt me T aponeurosis and the m. biceps brachn have been cut throng 1 ... . a ... „r„„r„,^rat-,Tirr tiiitl correcting Defornnti D“ h °t ’ Treated from the French. 2vols.,12mo. London, 1743. Paule Dieffenbach, Bosket, and Ph.el.ps, .box. cited. I (a) B.Cooper; in A. Cooper’s Trwtise on Dislo- cations and Fractures. London. Ldrtion, 184- jUUri.iv a * * “ - , 0 , London. Edition, 184-. P'(6)1 Bonnet, above cited, p. 59o. (c) Doubovitzki, P., Memoue sat 'f{ ; sous-cutance des Muscles pronateura-flechi*»W la Main et des Doigts. 1 arts, 1841.[ 195 ] IV.—SOLUTION OF CONTINUITY FROM UNNATURAL EXTENSION. A -IN THE ARTERIES. Of Aneurysms. First Section.—OF ANEURYSMS IN GENERAL. ■vAOth, T., Scriplorum Latinorum de Aneurysmatibus collectio. cxy Icon. Argent ■S5. 4to. contains,— 6 ’ Lan'Cisius, F. M., De Aneurysmatibus. Guattani, G., De extends Aneurysmatibus. Rom., 1772. Murray, A., In Aneurysmate femoris animadversiones, 1781. Treu, G. J., Aneurysmatis spurii post vena; basilic® sectionem orti liistoria et curatio. Norimb. Asman, C., De Aneurysmate, 1773. Weltinus, J., De Aneurysmate vero pectoris externo, 1750. Matant, De aneurysmaticis praccordiorum morbis. Francof., 1766. Verbrugge, J., De Aneurysmate. L. B., 1773. icholls, On Aneurysms in general; in Phil. Trans., vol. xxxv. p. 440. 1729. ENCTrENAT1 Recherches anatomico-pathologiques sur les Anevrysmes des Arteres imcePs^1%^, ^ ** rAcad- deS ‘alletta, SulFAneurisma. •eschajips, Sur la Ligature des principals Arteres blessees et particulierement sur levrysme de I’Artere poplitee. Paris, 1797. P sur -aillot, R., Essaies sur l’Anevrysme. Paris, an vn. ^ltooH'’ Ueber die Pulsadergesclnvulste und ihre chirurgiche Behandlung. Aajani, Sull Aneurisma degli Arti inferiori. Roma, 1790. r &!t™, TTtr b? Wish*rt “ * on the Anatom^, Pathology and I gical Treatment of Aneurism. 8vo. Edinb., 1808. Second Edition, 1819, here Quoted RPPD npAnnn Ah a ® i 1 j ^ham^S.^o6^0118 °n AneUr5sm and some Diseases of the Arterial System' 5,Ap°209BERG’ A'’ ErfahrunSen iiber die Pulsadergeschwiilste; in Horn’s Archiv., ■w^dl7Oa^wn*ffi^^dellS P.rinfPali Arterie degli Arti; con una ? ched to the Second Edition of the by Wjshart, and 1 « organiques. Strasbourgf^1822^^to.proPri<?tes’leurs Unctions, et lenrs altera- ™ Vacua Berlinghieri und Wer Astlev ^ t Aus dem Ital. mit Zusiltzen. Zurich, 1822. 4to. . stley, Surgical Lectures. Edited by Tyrrell, vol. ii. 1825. o 2196 KINDS OF Tom™, Tnros, Practical Treatises ‘'““"I!'! w?tant!oSe'‘of the new opera- iffCmcn^a t SSttcatmcnt of -»»rhage. With .ngtn.l c,.^ - K^—ri. nature des principal™ Arthrs. L “Injuries of Arteries, with the operations re,uired f. 'htZL,T«22Z:.rlesAnd,ry.»s; in lidper.oire ^ d'A.a»mi«..d ;t:;riurgicam *«*— -«»- ** ,8M' 4”' 4 I M Traite d'Anatomie chirurgicale. eol.i.ii. Paris, 1825-8. I chirurg. Operationen, u, s. w„ nut einer vone E, Tabula, .natontico-tUrnrgic*K-irpei Fbohief, R-, Chirurgische Anatomte del L,satu.stcl.e Weimar, 1830. foL; with 18 plate . Ligature des Arteres. Par Manec, J. P., Traitd theoretique et piatique d 1832. fo1, , . Cr.nio.trQflprn behufs der Unterbindungen z He"Sr“"GA»b™c^.eGes'cU«, Scr Untcrbindungcu. KUrnh.rg, !«j "S*. lorn, Pec,arcs „« Surge,, i “ H00. swelling ^ rs» Pulsadergeschwulst, Germ., • the iatter a false or spurn named a true, (.Aneurysma verum,) a g have aiso mentioned Aneurysm (.Aneurysma spunum.) } fter the extern Zxed Aneurysm, (Aneurysma ^ contrary (a). T arterial coat is divided, the a true aneurysm bun designation, however, is also used mixed aneurys? and°the blood is effused (c) has, however, taken in the former sense, does e t coat 0f the artery is to close examination, determined that the m sion of the inner 1 and a sac-like expansion produced by m p ^ q{ exte through the opening ™}he ™ d“ of an artery and vein is cal coat. A combined division and enlargemra (Aneurisma vancosm a Varicose Aneurysm, or Aneurisn f expansion affect sen =K ssstr“: such are distinguished us vo» WAh™ x^rrr/r“BTESc,,nT; ^ ^ Edinburgh, vol. U. p- 238.ANEURYSM. 197 [The writings of the ancient physicians show their acquaintance with aneurysm, [which they described as of two kinds; one, the consequence of a wound in bleeding jfrom the vein in the arm or spurious aneurysm, which would seem to have been of not ■infrequent occurrence, as they are best informed about it; and the other by dilata- tion of the artery without injury, or true aneurysm. I have selected passages from ■Galen, jEtius, and Paul of lEgina, which are the foundation of the opinions long and subsequently held by writers on this subject. ^ Galen («) says“ When an artery is expanded, the disease is called an aneurysm, his happens when, the vessel being wounded, the adjoining skin cicatrizes, but the round still remains in the artery, which neither unites nor heals, nor is filled up with lesh. Such diseases are known by the pulsation of the arteries, but when pressed, all he swelling disappears, the substance producing it returning into the artery, and rhich I have elsewhere shown consists of thin and yellow blood mixed with thin and I Mcl> sPirit- Forthwith is this blood hotter than that in the veins, and when the aneu- f ysm is wounded, it darts forth and cau with difficulty be stopped. But in oedema the ■j, ubstance yields to the pressure of the finger, and the ,limb pits, but there is no pulsa- i ion in this disease, and the colour is whiter, and the oedema is much more spread and •l renter than in aneurysm, except when a thrombus having arisen from it, produces i;!! anpne. In another place (6) Galen says Aneurysm is the dilatation of a vein, :l, r the dispersion of the spirituous matter by its bursting beneath the flesh.” i /Etius (c) describes the signs of aneurysm as “a tumour of small or large size of ne colour, free from pain, soft to the touch, and having a spongy looseness. It yields ,) to prepre of the fingers as to seem almost to disappear, but on the removal of the : ugers it very quickly returns, which is especially observed in aneurysm and the rest “• iat occur without a wound. But when there has been a previous wound of the artery I £ Lr;n"’thTf 1S/‘’S0 accomPanyi_ng dilatation of the vessels, the tumour is ■1 relk outthe ffimouJ” 6mg m°r6 C°P1°US ^ the Spirits’ C°llects in clots and I PAULj Of^Epa (d) proceeds farther, and distinguishes spontaneous aneurysm from I “ .FBut I After ^^oted Galen’s definition and symptoms °h“ ys.— But I distinguish the one from the other thus : those which arise froni a rlilat«l ,!/ tery are more bulky and deeply situated, and on examination with the finders a sort 1 noise is heard; but no noise is heard in those caused by rupture, whkfare more 1 Und and arise superficially. He advises different treatment L e “C c sease, as will be presently mentioned. ms ot I ^ Hunter defines aneurysm as “the dilatation of the coats of an artery arisW I obablj either from disease or accident, producing weakness, which become!’ the re® rce is gr 1401. a small narf of tI1TSm 6 the are either expanded only e eCnsion nfflt iC0U1'Se’ (Aneury™« ™r«m circumscriptum,) or rum SuZmT ? &radualIy lost (Aneurysma conseaumt (A F aneurysm is also divided into the circumscribed ' e dlM^oxiriZlT?7Urmm ClrCUmscriPtum consecutivum,) and the former 2 1 diffusum seu primitivum.) Stery, and /t°\1§ effused under the cellular tissue of the feryare divided and tl *aC ; ’f16 latter’ all the coats of the hole limb (par 278 ) " P°Ured forth int° the intersPaccs of the ferent format he tttn ^the*1 I11"41? °f ^ue aneui7sm according to the - in which the artery exh^ S onf part oft iTiS | 16) o»„, i P' Ku,,n 8 Edition. 8vo. • Ktmw’g Par‘ ccclxxviii- vo1- xix. p. • ^ T,tP«/3//3A(>», Discourse xv. chap. 10. I have been obliged to use the Latin Translation bv Easileo!, mdxlii. fol., not being ^leto put hand on a Greek copy.—J. jf. s “ l”ra’ book vi. chap, xxxvii. p. Iso. 13asiieao,mdxxxviii. fol. F198 SYMPTOMS OF orisrinatine in the expansion of all the coats of the arteries. 2. The spindle-shaped SZm inwhich X the coats of the whole tube of the artery are expanded but narrow above and below, like a spindle 3 .The true|*fc***d the canal of an artery is, for a greater or lesfe distance, more or 4. The true varicose aneurysm, or aneurysmal varix, m which there is.ta P on of the artery, to a greater or ’less extent of its length, of the trunk of the vessel, and of its principal branches which veins. Besides this transverse expansion, there is also al®^>ngo 1nhich becomes bent, and describes more or less numerous and wnsiderable curves, iberc are also sometimes observed, bend«ttftr^SbSUeury«in«,whidi are true sac- wiS vTn; “Se p«lsaf»», bo.eter, always presents a d.stmgn.stog and dew* ruinate character 1402. The symptoms which characterize aneurysm are the following: A little elastic pulsating swelling, which diminishes on pressure, an boom returns on its withdrawal, arises at some one spot corresponding el course of the artery. The pulsation ceases when the artery is compressed between the swelling and the heart, and the former becomes generally less tense. If the artery be compressed below the swelling, the pulsa .on becomes^ ore bounding and district. The tumour --allyjjeafa. becomes more Dounaing anu uisimu. “ nsiderable pain, the skin over it unchanged, and it quickly enlarge . size. In proportion as the swelling increases the blood contained m d becomes more solid by coagulating, and can be no longer g ,y pressure; the pulsation is weaker, and often entirely lost (1) JNJ tumour has acquired considerable size, it acts mjunou^y by g 1ggi and expansion upon the neighbouring parts ; the artery in the other blood and lymphatic vessels, is interfered with, tW nerves’ are compressed; the nourishment warmth and scn^tion oHh, part are diminished ; the limb becomes oedematous y swelledthe tug is covered with varicose vessels, and becomes bluish; and the surrounding; muscles and bones even, may be destroyed by the constant P=e - absorption. In consequence of the expansion of the parts coven swelling they at last inflame; at the most prominent part an abscess, 0 commonly a Ilough is formed, after the separation of whidi the coagula^^ blood is discharged, and a dangerous or fatal bleedinge ,jz, coverings of the tumour may be also torn by gradual distension. - may even become so great, that by the pressure and destruction^^ surrounding parts, the nourishment of the limb may be entire y I v and its death caused (3). j If the aneurysmal sac increase, it attaches itself to the surrounding parts^w^^b^ thickened by inflammation and by the exudation of plastic lymph, ai , lood int although the coats of the artery be torn, to prevent the penetratiMi of oil the intersDaces of the part. If, however, the aneurysmal sac tear sudd0,'b. ^ these adhesions are formed, the blood is poured forth into aU ^|“e ^V^T'iho most distal ren “The coagulation takes place,” observes John Hunter, a f , i IAU_ u B . Klee, 1 • the firmness and colour ot the lamw 1 rm “The coagulation takes place, oDserves the lamina1 narts from the direct current of the blood: the firmness and colour.of theto different parts of the tumour, are such that it is easy to distinguis P one; the external are of a ***^J^?*X*. > from a new one ; the external Zamiiue are ot a .lusty brown ™ ^h~b](wd. A crow gradually redder as we advance inwards towards the currento . the dilatation increases, the coats of the artery are thickened bythe thicke M a or the cellular membrane already thickened becomes firm,, and ad pu or the cellular membrane already thickened becomes nrm,,»»»- encrally gi« sciousness of weakness. When the aneurism proceeds to this state it g fide8, “.. «. .«} 1tSi——‘ the sac diminishes in an199 ANEURYSM. ri longer in dilating than might be imagined; but after proceeding to a certain leno-th, g the adventitious coat gives way, and the blood is effused into the surrounding cellular Jl membrane, producing distension; and when the artery is a considerable one, there is d an obstruction to the blood’s motion in the collateral branches, producing mortification. 11 When the artery opens externally, it is always on that side where the artery gives wav miost.” (p. 546.) (2) The mode in which an aneurysm bursts externally is thus described by John Hunter. “ When an aneurism is in an artery whose dilatation brings it to the skin, the coagulant comes first, and obstructs the circulation in the skin; the skin inflames and mortifies, forming a black slough, which dries and adheres to the coagulum. As the slough separates there is an oozing of blood at the edges, which becomes more and ,■ more, till at last in a large artery, as the aorta, the plug may be wholly pushed off and «]the patient die instantly. If in a smaller artery, death will be more gradual.” (p. 546.) ■ Hodgson makes the following good remarks upon the bursting of “ aneurisms, which f£like abscesses, generally proceed towards the surface of the body ; but in this respect they are very much influenced by the situation and the side of the vessel from which i the disease originates. When the sac points externally it rarely or never bursts by laceration, but the extreme distension causes the integuments and investing parts to dough, and upon the separation of the eschar the blood issues from the tumour. A >irailai process takes place when the disease extends into a cavity which is lined by a nucous membrane, as the oesophagus, intestines, bladder, &c. In such cases the cavity it the aneurism is generally exposed by the separation of a slough which has formed lpon its most distended part and not by laceration. But when the sac projects into a lavity lined by a serous membrane, as the pleura, the peritoneum, the pericardium, &c doughing of these membranes does not take place, but the parietes of the tumour laving become extremely thin in consequence of distension, at length burst by a crack Ifjjf hr0Uf "lh!C! tbe bIood ,1S discharged. I have,” says he, “ examined aneu- lsms that have burst into the cavities of the pericardium, the pleura, and the perito- hh °P,emn?vha.S always been formed by laceration, and not by sloughing: 6,/n the other hand, all the instances of this disease that I have seen, in which aneurisms l''npS UP?U l ,ie sur, ace of tbe bot,y or ‘nt0 cavities lined by a mucous membrane the l'ppm85S 6*]be<in the C0DSequeilce of sloughing and ulceration, and not of laceration.” ,his tte bl"dfro"ihe sac anS I7ith?vmn0MmleXi0ned’ I1*"’,a‘Kl temPerate man, 35 years old, was in 1789 affected s"PP°sed to denote the approach of pulmonary consumption but after idetween eight and ninp°in tha • thus amusing himself, he was suddenly seized lie soon after taaTsS SEt kT' .f opl>“si»» >» his V lood were observed HpIw JT ^ the matter thrown up some streaks of vras covered with bed-clothes his ski^felf’cohl ^ ,W6ather was warm> aud he ' ‘ °on after midn^t i,°i„,L. ,Sn /elt cold t0 those who were attending on him. con- with H oon after midnight PpT„k j Y t0 those who were attending on Hnually«p?ctomfnV Jfe ?d ™dera constant desire to cough, and was I cold^t w^LrSf bI°°d-- His b0dy ™ moisten^ «Ie continued get turn woT!p feeblu’ sometImes it was scarcely perceptible ” M ISed dlftaltlCdhe J :bout a quarter past five he sudduidv hpramo ’ sufle,lllg great pant and uneasiness, • lately before his denth, - 7 became worse, and expired. Almost imme- ’ J'othes to cool himself.” On^amimtioT^th?i “ h‘iS ChCSt’ and threw off the ery much distended and ttl l!! , ’ tbe blood-vessels of the lungs were found « he right lung adhered!ghtlyto the'ribs'and ?le quantity of blood in the air-cells. H («) Transaction, of • Pericardium; but this seemed to have J a Society for the Improvement of Medical and Chirurgical Knowledge, vol. iii.200 (a) IIodoson, above cited, p. 82- . , DISTINGUISHING CHARACTERS been tlie consequence of some disease which had existed long before death. Each cavity of the chest contained about ten ounces of a fluid hig y *“8* "b'e j- *' contnincd abou. t.o ounce, »f * dice and dropsy ; but the aneurysni was not ^^oate^dunng 1f ; etimeg produce It may be here mentioned that tjejmsiare <ita^^Useum there is an example Museum,'one in which the superior vena cava is almost obliterated.] 1403 The distinguishing characters of circumscribed true and false- aneurvsm are usually described as the following :-True aneurysm* nuicklv diminishes on^ the application of pressure, though it reappear* aZst as soon as the pressure is removed: false aneurysm only disap- pears gradually, and returns slowly after pressure has been taken off. ‘fX S' *The aperture by which the sac of the false aneury,® alf^’ drical or egg-shaped, yields easily to pressure, and in tbe^ i l b ) always found smaller than it was during life, I he toim ol ne aneurysm is irregular, and continues the same in the corpse. In the *a o^a Hue aneurysm, lasers of coagulated blood are never deposited whi is always the case in false aneurysm, with very ^ more all the coats of the artery are expanded the more they are tn whilst on the contrary, the sac of a false aneurysm mcrease.mJ ^ However in true cylindrical aneurysm the wal x . j equally thick, so tbit, if cut through vertically to its avis, the walls not drop (c). rrn Lawrence (a) observes “ There are some lnstanws ny t be felt in which it may be heard, either by the application of the ear J l Th • +r. m lnrp’p cavitv, and each jet or the blood propeiieu iluu thesoun the contraction of the heart, produces a ?/0U°J.jJ11^u1S^“ehSrga succession of the* of blowing through bellows—wJuh, whih, u hih , } Mmnrterised it hy th trated.” (p- 160.) w (,.) Bbeschet, above cited. (i) Scarpa.201 OF ANEURYSM. I cannot assent to several of the conditions laid down by Chelius, as distinguishing true from false aneurysm. The diminution of the bulk of a true aneurysm depends materially in the stage at which it has arrived; if it be recent, and there be little or no lining of clot t does diminish readily on pressure of the artery between the sac and the heart; but the’ liminution under these circumstances is less and less, in proportion to the ’increased julk of the sac, so that, in a large aneurysm there is, comparatively, little diminu- ion of size, though the current of blood be stopped. False aneurysm diminishes still less, and often, indeed, when the blood continues, as it commonly does, pour- ng into the cellular tissue it there coagulates, scarcely any perceptible diminution of •ize is made by pressure on the artery between it and the heart. And a true aneurysm chicli has burst a sac beneath the skin, as sometimes happens, is similarly circumstanced. Die pulsation is generally less distinct in a false than in a true aneurysm; but this also lepends on the period and extent occupied by the blood which has escaped, and is pro- wrhonally less, the greater the quantity of blood poured out. The external form of false aneurysm is undoubtedly irregular, as it much depends upon the looseness of the urrounding cellular tissue, and whether the part be or be not enveloped in a tendinous heath; but the immediate sac, consisting only of more or less numerous layers of oagulated blood, which as they continue to form, thrust the loaded cellular tissue awav rom the artery and hollow it out for their own lodgment, is generally of a regular oval irm, and has at one or other part au aperture, by which blood continues escaping and orging the ceUu ar tissue surrounding the false sac, till at last it distends the skin so mch that it mortifies and gives way at one or more points, and bloody serum and clots ixed with ill-formed pus, which is commonly produced towards the termination of e disease, begin to be discharged, and increase in quantity till the false sac itself p16 bl°fd fadllymakes its way out- 1 cannot understand the observa- on that m the sac of a tnie aneurysm layers of coagulated blood are never deDo L:!c^ sease proceeds they are certainly formed, although Hodgson deniL it and savs S ) SlTto\hePd[ffeal dilatlT°£ the C°atS of fee aneurysm, although iS'.he’formei^tt 2™ Ye a^ffin funded having been either absorbed or stretched to bursting- bv it/ ' ^ sur' parse long as the surrounding- cellular tissue® f 6 aueul7smaJ sac>Jt continues indeed eT»Ut,d^i;ru^ ^Trtoy?mmla°L*fo^ corresponding to thatof0tlTe’oourse6 %“• ”> .the neighbourhood V a ^ actised touch is’e^lyd^tinmifol^n pulsaf‘011’ w.hich> however, to a h sinking of the swelling- hot ifia ?’ 3S p- cons’sts orAy in a raising d’hates by the impartedmotion^^ 7SWe ]m^. co,ntain fluid which rtainty, hLever, Lay beSed if “ ?°Ubtful: a degree of -velhng, and the Jter be C^erly \\ ifoVfo f'00d is^itl Wrrai^srnf Th^ai-1 h^1’f^ witnessL'cl a case in on " lnt° thC b°tt0m °f the neck’ a”d there fonS“afomSr.'whS 'J) K,BM’ PmVlS^ir'vof f.’ p.e.^th°l0gie’ 61 de Chirurgie,202 CAUSES AND being mistaken for an abscess, the HoS-dS bleedings. Richeuand (a) says, t < ' j |ds iudfe jut0 an axillary aneurysm, thinking to open an abscess in mentions an instance of an aneurysm and killed his patient. p. 72.) i . , under supposition of it being a lumbar which had presented in the loin, being u,e edg^ of the wound were imme- abscess; the mistake, however, being ascei * ent d>d by the tumour afterwards diately brought toge her and h^led rious aneurysm, after venesection, was in a fit state to have the artery secure! .• m:staben foran aneurysm, an example On the other hand, a . \ J who had his breast-bone much frac of which is mentioned by WarneM. x'ortniaht after. “ There was an evident tured by a fall, and came to Guy s H p ^ ^ere removed at gome distance from separation of the broken parts of the » " , a tumour 0f considerable size each other. The intermediate spac P cwellin" had as regular a con- the integuments were of ^Tport^ could be supposed to have. Upon traction and dilatation as tlie lre ’ , f (j pressure, the tumour immediattlj pressure, the tumour receded ; upon a removal ob’urst in about three week ^^Sn«ed ^conshfe'rable quantity of matter, and the patient b ;»STn —a artery as to hide it completely, and receive P jugular vein, the swelling o there is a very fine example of this di^ease m he int*rnal.^ ^ q{ ^ which, from its size, must have Thv nrisure o^f the swelling at its farthest extremitj Such cases may be dl?tinS“;fled size^vill diminish, whilst if pressure be made between from the heart, in which case , , • b tbe very reverse to aneurysm, it and the heart its bulk must be increas , acquire pulsation from it, and b Tumours of any kind upon an artery the cessation of tb pulsation when^ s^gTm!d up, will generally determine their true character.- J. F. S.] 1405 Aneurysms arise either of their own accord, or ! external influence (A. spontaneum Stiver at once o rseSverin!X^.o;v Z, a tber^^cl^^y0^^°even osslfka\™bet0weef the"i££ ulceration, loosening, thickemn0, artery yield to the pressur Pin jumping, --rsirass!* r^:»ve the rate of .he JS’JSl riM ** K“^S,d.SiS ta-2—(p-»o (<0 Nosograpliie CUirnrglcale, vol iv. Fourth Eht. 1>an3> lsl°- w ° 1 (6) Cases in Surgery. London, 1/!H.203 FREQUENCY OF ANEURYSM. Guthrie also observes:— “ The exertion in general is infinitely greater in the man than in the woman; and I think this, combined with the freer use of ardent spirits, a much more likely predisposing cause than either syphilis or mercury.” (p. 87.) With regard to the age at which aneurysm occurs, Astley Cooper observes (6): “ The period of life at which they most frequently occur is between thirty and fifty years • at that age in the labouring classes the exertions of the body are considerable and its strength often becomes diminished : in very old age this complaint is less frequent, as muscular exertion is less. The greatest age at which I have seen aneurism has been eighty years; this was in a man for whom I tied the popliteal artery in Guy’s Hospital, for popliteal aneurism; and, notwithstanding his advanced age, I never had an operation succeed better. I also,operated on a man of sixty-nine years, and that case also did well. A boy, in St. Thomas’s Hospital, had an aneurism of the anterior tibial artery, who, I was informed, was only eleven years old. The man of eighty was the oldest, and the boy of eleven ihe youngest, which I have seen with aneurism.” (pp. 40, 1.) As regards the frequency of aneurysm in the sexes, Wilson (a) remarks, that shortly before John Hunter s death, he heard him state that he had only met with one woman with true or spontaneous aneurysm. Astley Cooper says “ In forty years’ ex- perience, taking the hospital and private practice, I have seen only eight cases of non- hteal aneurism in the female, but an immense number in the male. The aneurisms which I have seen in the female, have been the greater number in the ascending aorta or the carotid arteries, (p. 41.) Of the sixty-three cases referred to by Hodgson seven only were females, and the other fifty-six males, (p. 87.) Guthrie states that he does not recollect having seen more than three women suffering from popliteal aneurism; and it is probable that they are found, on an average, at least, from twenty to thirty times, in men for once in woman. The structure of the vessels is the same but .he mode of life is diff.m,,." (p 87.) L™™ (i) meoa„n, Zt of one C„dS nnH thf ^f°UrCaS? WhT'Ch he bad coI,ated> one hundred and forty-one were males and thirteen females. I myself, in the course of thirty years, do not recollect more than three external aneurysms, which were popliteal, in females. J. F S J 1406. Aneurysm may occur in all arteries; the internal' arteries are owever, more frequently attacked with it than the external, the reason 4 which may be, that the nearer the arteries are to the heart, the thinner ire their walls in proportion to their diameter, consequently they are less apable of withstanding a violent pressure of the blood. The curves | also, which the arteries describe in their course, have an influence on the i more frequent origin of aneurysm. Aneurysm of the arch of the aorta is : .most frequent; next comes aneurysm of the popliteal, then of the inguinal fi axillary, and carotid arteries. False aneurysm, as a consequence &of the IXky°biTeSi.0C0UrS “°St COmm°"ly fa the brachM. an £ 'penning S3yS J°H4N Hu™’ “has so™ power in I arger arteries, as at the arch of tl5 ane.Unsm®- Aneurisms are most frequent in the | :rtrfTtn ir; the but they *ing chiefly of Slfciffif no" neJrs^m iSe’lthe St™Cture of the Ia,’ge arteries ofr great6r P°WerS resistance.” (pp. 544 4501 ’ “ ^ Wldch have fallowing ^W^^^ve^b^HOTJoso^Md^by1 LisraANC*:—eXterDal arteries> the Hodgson. Hodgson. ’opliteal and Femoral 14 males. • lfemalc- ubclavian and illary ... 5 ■>guinal . , ‘ ’ jo Lisfhanc. 2 males. Total 34 Popliteal . . , Femoral, at the groin’ „ other parts Carotid . . Subclavian Axillary . . External iliac . brachio-cephalic brachial Common iliac . / , . Carried forward llysiologyUanSj0p.,ti|leI ,,,00‘l> anfa Anatomy, '"don, ls’iu llvm °8y °f tl,e Vascular System. , 59 26 18 17 16 14 5 4 3 3 165 brought forward Anterior tibial Gluteal Internal iliac . Temporal . . Internal carotid Ulnar . . Radial . . Palmar arch . Peroneal . 165 3 Total. 2 1 1 1 1 I 179 mlra pour mnv Methodes et des difi&ens Pro- 0 . | u 1 Obliteration des Arteres dans Ip trnitp ment des Anevrysmes. Paris, 1824 8vo.204 ORIGIN OF Not unfrequently there is more than one aneurysm existing at the same time: it, therefore becomes a matter of high importance to make a careful examination o the whole of a patient’s body upon whom it is proposed to operate; for if there be any no real benefit, a ^ Cline was about to operate upon a man in St. Thomas’smHoSl who lmd a popliteal aneurism, but deferred it on account of the Ihomass Hospital w j T e abdomen A few days afterwards the man died sud- denly, and, on exammatio , ,, , ti.„ excitement of an operation may stretched himself on his back, and Ins urine flowed from him fopeened g the middle ot tne tnign , examination, an aneurism was found in each making in all seven aneurisms. , afterwards found to have seven instance in which he operated on a nonliteal aneurysm in the left ham. aneurisms.” The operation was performed for a PJlltea^^ci^ the operation, I “ Whilst feeling in the course of the .artery, before co^encmg p foimd,” says Tvimnim,‘‘a and at that period another aneurism was found ^ssaL«jss£-” ssz Ji space between the two aneurisms in the fe , . During the following three half, appeared sound, and a ligature was PP ismal sac }n tlie ham sloughed, weeks the limb became gangrenous, and the fear of the diseased exposing the thigh-bone, but ^putatton was not >he WOund nntil the sixth condition of the artery. g „ / ■ j t weeks and a half after the WszMmssMIIP2 some dilatation of the aorta, immediately a °^e j ® pElletan (a), w-lio [observes Still more remarkable is the case “efXcW SSSSv to large and small “ I have_ often S6C" nrer0UA:!!fUi?“ifsaVone man, from the size of a filbert “all the arteries were studded with 3Ss principal divisions, but they to that of a large pea. Some were on the aorta and P P the limbSj» which, projected little and were much less numerous than neeHaces • all the swellings were “on many parts of their length, formed n prim os less numerous; numerous and close together. Those of the lower torts ^rial walls without exaggeration they might be estinu e a s the tunics were dilated d thinned. In none mu 1 ooserve .upiu.s — de_ 1407. The old opinion that spontaneous aneurysm ^ ^os aluaj- wends on an expansion of all the arterial coats ha*.been writers, but most efficiently by Scarpa, and the ot ig’ • . placed in a tearing of tlie internal coat of jeai t h artery- W «• tear on »/““1 Lm. - (a) Clinique Chirurgicnle, vol. ii. v205 ANEURYSM. The correctness of this opinion is grounded on the condition of the arte- rial coats in their natural state, and on the careful- examination of aneu- rysmal arteries. For the internal and middle coats of arteries cannot, on account of their slight degree of elasticity, permit any great degree of extension without tearing ; whilst, on the contrary, their external or cellular coat is in the highest degree extensible. Examination shows that in all large aneurysms their proper sac communicates with the cavity of the artery by a large or small opening, frequently, as it were, fringed, and often hard and callous; that, therefore, the swelling never includes the whole tube of the artery, as would be the case in expansion of all the Arterial coats, but is connected with the artery like an appendage fixed on i stem. Further, that in the wall of the artery, opposite the torn part, :he several coats are found in their natural condition, and can be decidedly distinguished from each other; that in spontaneous aneurysm the internal coats are usually changed in a manner (par. 1405) which, indeed, favours their tearing, but not their extension. Also, in expansion of all " he coats of the artery, no collection of coagulated blood can take dace, as the blood always remains within the cavity of the vessel. The ■eason, however, why it is so easily assumed that the sac of the aneu- •ysm is formed of all the coats of the artery, is founded on the cellular issue being always considerably thickened, and at the commencement the tear being adherent, in the closest manner, to the internal coats f the artery, which are here always more or less disorganized, often piite brittle. Besides, also, every remark usually applied to aneurysm >y expansion, is equally applicable to aneurysm by tearing. Only in the lorta, near to the heart, does Scarpa admit the possibility of simul- aneous expansion of all the arterial coats; however, even here it can nly attain a certain degree, without tearing of the internal coat. [John- Hunter somewhat inclines to a diseased condition of the artery; for he says It would appear that there must be a specific disease of the artery in most cases, for natation is too local for so general a cause as the force of the heart.” (p. 545.)] 1408. Close and careful, however, as are the observations of Scarpa n valid as is his opinion against the often too ready assumption of an exten- ion of all the arterial coats in aneurysm, their truth cannot, however 6 adinitted in every case. Examinations instituted by the closest observ- es, show that the arteries are subject to an expansion, not only of their t‘thole tu.^’ but also of particular parts (a). Scarpa himself admits e possibility of extension of all the coats in the arch of the aorta i old persons, especially females, the expansion of the arch of the aorta J ;‘ f ut degeneration or tearing, is twice as frequent. Even the trunk of HIT1 ha^nfound throughout regularly expanded to nearly 1 'T ltS Slze (*)• Enormous expansion of the aorta and pulmonary • Irenes, are a common appearance in diving animals. J n , " !-minino an aneurysm in which the internal coat has been torn oLn fldeTb e T f°Td in the cellular coat’ the area of the artery ccm el nnd C°nS!l erab y enlarged> at the place where the tear has rterv ’ n Her °hange ln the inner antl i™ddle coats of the le T n that Ty are exPanded and thinned. The enlargement of ay chfckTTtb^1101'68 -°fithe a[teries’ if the circulation be in any <pansbn of Z PrinciPal 1trunk’ and the frequently considerable P ■ of the capdlary vessels in the .branching aneurysm, presently OV0 Cited. Recited, p. 74. Rreschkt, (6) Meckel, Handbuch de pathologischen Anatomic, vol. ii. pt. i. p. 244.206 (a) Hodoson, above cited, p. 114. ^ Scarpa. SPONTANEOUS CURE. to be considered, contradict Scarpa’s opinion. From these ■ however it only follows, that a simultaneous expansion of all the arterial coItsTs possibll, but that when it attains a certain degree, tearing of the internal and middle coats occurs; consequently, a false aneurysm is iro- • duced from a true aneurysm. rftSlllte are the 1409 Although the above-mentioned (par 13"2) results are ue common terminations of aneurysm, and the disease if ^ nearly always ends fatally, yet, however, it is capable of a spontaneous • nnrp which mav be brought about in different ways. T If it anLysmal L attain considerable site ,t may compress and rtWi'tprate the artery. This is the more rare case (1). 2 A severe inflammation which attacks the whole aneurysmal sac, and runs into suppuration or gangrene, may act so violenj^ up ^ anlTde"To't in layers may take place in the sac, by-hichi*. cavity may be diminished, and at last even et next collateral branch,,. into the canal of theartery and ^aronnce^etrLe§i(»g)'becoming solid, and by a weaker or com-e Plt*CXf JSS in’the sac may be converted -to n-Ud, tohj, 8c^*°^ve”ftebil“to arteryls “pri’enTd.'aSd the sac’gradnally- like form, at that side of the sac mos distant from the heart K V forc^ 0f the H™ He saysEven in the lathe sac is a heart directs, in some degree, the swell of the turn ^ ^ ^ distaut part of the sac good deal enlarged. The force of the of the motion 0f the blood, whichm endeavours to carry it on further i , • tke direction of the sound artery. The. time makes a pouch ; therefore it is S 0f the artery, and becomes the cause - sac often, by its increase, presses on the sound par; ot tne arie y, Qf ^ kind oi of its obliteration, as I have Be“ in the Museum at St. Thomas’* spontaneous cure there is a magm P b l tke profunda, which has formed a in an aneurysm of the feimoral artery, its communicating open- M t0" °f d0t“ b*(“) There is in St. Thomas's Museum a very aneurysm, in course of cure by this proceeding, t ksg Jn d;ameter than tht very close and solid, and thrt.ugh its cen ’conveyed to the leg, natural tube of the vessel, by which the 'h°od “ ueen e'ently to be noticed* wMch has been evidently fast diminishing. L College of Surg»* » inch in di»aemr, Bled - laminated clots, and the artery beyond .t »nt™Kd^ J^ • ] ^ 1410. What has been said about lie spontane cure of » ssr?. «s ,7?*£,•« it :r-,s-‘ remaining pervious* (6) lb., p. U8.207 TREATMENT OF ANEURYSM. 1411. After the obliteration of the trunk of the vessel the circulation is carried on in the limb, by the collateral branches, which enlarge con- siderably, and are connected with each other by numberless anastomoses. In many cases a more direct and manifest anastomosis of the vessels take place, so that after the closure of the principal trunk, the stream of blood it once passes by the neighbouring branches ; in other cases, the collateral circulation is only undertaken by small numberless anastamoses (a). Upon the different ways in which the collateral circulation is produced, and partly dso on the point of time when the vessel is examined, after the obliteration if the principal trunk, may depend whether the collateral branches appear more or less, or even not at all, enlarged. The frequent examinations, in ivhich, after the obliteration of the principal trunk of an artery, the other irteries of the limb are found considerably enlarged, do not therefore contradict the equally true observations, in which this enlargement is not. Pound (b). *1412. The remedies which have been proposed, generally, for the treat- lent of aneurysm, are, rest and antiphlogistic treatment, the application f cold and contracting remedies to the swelling, the compression, and tying f the aneurysmatic artery. 1413. Strict rest, lowering treatment, restricted diet, repeated blood- etting, even to the greatest degree of weakening, (Valsalva’s plan,) and he internal use of digitalis, are the only modes of treatment by which the ■ure of internal aneurysm may perhaps be effected ; in which indeed, :nder great diminution of the circulating power, the blood coagulates in ,u|he sac, and the aperture, whereby the sac communicates with the artery, is Closed. In certain cases the area of the artery may be at the same time [reserved, (par. 1409,) but in others the coagulation of the blood extends (llito the atrery, and shuts it up. In true aneurysm, a diminution and •Contraction of the walls of the artery may thus be effected. 1414. The astringent remedies employed for the purpose of restoring I leir elasticity to the arterial coats, or for effecting the complete coagula^ 1 on of the blood in the sac, are, applications of cold water, pounded ice (1), o ark, oak bark, and so on. If this mode of treatment, which was formerly Tnployed, have in many cases a satisfactory result, it may be in part ascribed - j> the compression generally at the same time employed with it, and more n specially to keeping the patient at rest. Perhaps, however, all share ‘ 16 -f-ess must not deniec[ t0 these topical applications, as they i e capable of favouring the coagulation of the blood in the sac, and in f ns way promoting the cure (c). l°orGicwf w-ftl I^rd!uUX’ aPPeavs t0 have first proposed the application of pounded d„£d”T'C±,;rry‘mr s,“ (?; "d tho“«h» *«««»!« ™ Ivantarrp nf ,y 1 R, t says, that “subsequent observations have proved the ' medv ” And L r V thls y’ have d,sslPated all doubts as to the value of this Paris, No 4 hl thG mUtin de la Facult*de 'ed a considerable^^timLfttr L A°P aneu7s™ was thus cured. The patient »w in the Museum of the Sol, dlsaPPearance of the tumour, and the preparation is : have seen ice apolied m a We ■ ^1Clne’. 0n,the contrary, Hodgson says in that its emnlovment f g gUln?' a“eurl8m- but it produced such excruciating I loyment was from necessity discontinued.’’ (p. 163.)] ° ) II.OOSZ, H., Dissert, stir l’eraploi dcs J^tngerans dans les Anevrismos extornes. Paris, (d) Recueil Pcriodique de la Societe de Sante, a Pans, No. 3.208 TREATMENT OF ANEURYSM. 1415. Compression and ligature of the aneurysmatic arteries are the two modes of treatment which especially apply to the cure of external* aneurisms! They agree with each other in effecting the obliteration oi the artery ; this takes place slowly by compression, in which case the circidation is gradually restored by the collateral branches, but occur* ciuickly on tying the artery. Only in a spurious aneurysm, which arises ?“m Zwo J if an artery! and has not long existed cmma cure by com- nression be effected, without subsequent closure of the artery, as has neei Edygrafted in wounds of arteries, under certain c.rcumstances (par, 27?4V) Compression has been employed upon the aneurysmal swelling, above it, anZ a swathing of the whole limb. Proper apparatus or baa* ag?4 andbumting of the sac, it certain whether the pressure operates upon that partof the artery ato the onenino-, by which the sac communicates with the arteOi 1 p!rt beZ,° thi! opening, in which latter case the speedy bursting of tk lr\7l8ma2X«°^roi the artery is to be made at ^ P"e^ compression is effected, must ° 1,1 ciiec“k the circulation tr only on two sides, because otherwise they would ch^k ^'e. d wi As M ^3F£S3s is elected. This compression is often unbearable^whe^ ^ throughout its whole le”^i,^“r renders this less tittii especially applicable or *°Here also inay be mentioned alternate compression with several tourniquets at dill “& and Cohack (fc) hare -«lifted — - sxs sss fissaijsasjss E s«•*-* * «9 The compression of the whole limb, by proper wl S by the application _ hinirnp sur les principales T r II Nouvetle longee stir les principals Arteres („) GUIM.IKR L;lTOp^p’rc>«i'on mediate pro- Strasbourg, 1825. 4to- maniere d’exercer ^)0gJgJ,Journii 0f Medical Science, vo). urn., 1843, p. 304.209 BY COMPRESSION. ffltneuryanal sac, depending on the arrest of the circulation throughout the [ -whole limb. » [The unsatisfactory results of the treatment of aneurysm by tying the affected artery M-bove and below the sac, opening and emptying the latter, either before or after the ■gature, and then inducing it to fill up by granulation, as also the dangers of amputa- tion, led Guattani («) to consider the possibility of some other proceeding for the manage- Bientof “a disease, so, evidently incurable, that both medicine and surgery renounced jhjll kind of treatment.” He had, however, observed several cases spontaneously cured ajia patients who would not submit to either of these operations, and he hoped to succeed §jy a somewhat similar process. “ Many indeed,” says he, “ were the trials and dangers rtilcpendmg on the varieties of aneurysm, some of which differed from others in their , ; amre; nor did all arise from one and the same spot. But when I especially inquired W‘to those aneurysms which occurred at joints, 1 was led to suspect that by rest in bed and ir.eakemngthe whole body, at the same time also restraining the flow of blood in the artery ■inning to the affected part, and finally by gradually compressing the aneurysmal ii unour itself by the aid of bandages, I might be able not only to prevent its increase that in course of time the grumous blood would, by little and little, of itself be’ j ianged into serum, and rendered fit for circulation, and that the entire resolution of le l™r ™uld at length take place. A methodical bandaging, which should from fehifrr £or? ,c.omPress the affected part, seemed to me the only means »• Inch could fulfil all the indications ; but as in doing this many hindrances occurred d‘ Hrol"11Ch •fmed adlerS,e t0 a haPPJ' result, 1 continued in doubt, whether I should gt rely giveit up, or whether at some future time I should be induced to practise it.” ... 1-9.) In this frame of mind he continued till 1757, when a case of aneurysm of 1 Hr Part °f ,the femoral artery having occurred, he employed simple bandaging a ?er‘aln de£ree controlled the growth of the swelling. But the patient ffd tt n ^mitat0 thtn,e,cessary rest, and left Guattani for another Surgeon who d he ! n AaDid’ I’robably opening the sac at the same time, bound it up very tightly petals * "Jj » very J.ZXtZ" & ; every which 1, and was very cautious that the rT‘1'1 f?uld not too much constrin nof the handle Covered theVrecedintf1*1'6 Sh?,uld be e9ually kaPt up, so that ced, in every surgical op^ation wW - m?re thau half its breadth; !*•” (P 131.) Blldde t f wd hlS, \ndlcatl0? Pcesents, should always be of wine, were orde eT ^5* rest ^.the joint, and the application ’Plr*ts of wine, were ordered’ “ T left the AT j t.“cJu“J,|> ., Sasit performed its duty. ’ If properly apMfed86-^15^66,”-he continues, “as ■nty days. * * * rn rp • Property applied, it would remain for eighteen or ‘ter. I also directedt0°k ^ h should be P* on somewhat lled m the least, which prevent.ff eC" 611'^ e®Pf lally when either the leg or foot <?er.ti“» Utt patieiu could b”?1 Sub.mM™ if it became ■ - sgi,t a1” moistened the cu V'l!iegar and water, that I might' mevent te y V’f and pillows were moistened J* ,haye delayed not a little the cure Bv ,Ct? hea* of skin> ^ich coming on “delighted to find that the swelling fhhon^ C"11 afsid,]10us use of this treatment pulsation, daily decreased more arfd mot gl 1°? • ^ preserved its hardness («) Quoted at head of Article in Lautii’s Collectio. A>L. Ii.210 TREATMENT OF ANEURYSM N ~ -i . i *.w,ri»iiiit fi i■ att \ni adopted and continued to practise : ■bean.” (p. 132.) Such was the ti ‘ . ctice Qf others at a subsequent period, with success, and upon it has been tbe patient could not bear r John Hunter tried compression in one ot his cases, uui e i it, and he was obliged to tie the artery. , g;r William) attempted compres- In the beginning of 180-, Blizar 0 aneurysm, with the hope of effecting g sion of the femoral artery in a case p O 0f support for the instrument obliteration, in the following manner (a)r- \“2anUr, a piece of steel passing from , were the outer part of the knee and g semi-circular piece of iron was fixed, the one to the other: ’Ll tag a “Si “its end moved b, a .ere., by which projected over the femoral arte y. b^F^ the pulsatjon m the aneurysm turning which, the artery was readily P[ladon in the smauer vessels. But although stopped, without any interruption indifference to pain, he was mcapa- the patient possessed unusual fortitude ofthan nine hours; and when it was^oo^ned'j^the pulsion*i.^^e femwaTarte^^was tied and division of the artery be*^“-, *Wui-'witnessed two cases in which Guattaki’s In 1807, Freer, of Birmingham reCommendthe cure of aneurism to-: treatment had been adopted, nressure rather than by an operation, which fre- be attempted, in the first ;’ pythPe patjent might have recovered, if left to nature quently occasions death, eve P, tbe aneurismal tumour itseli, or upon alone.” Compression may be apphed ^ith*^ ^ ^ ^ appli«* the sound artery above it. In> thosei cais , ^ of appiication has frequently it has been upon the tumour itsel, ^ |q ukel t0 ansWer the intention of uniting been attended with success, it is y - SOund part of the artery. From the re- tire sides of the vessels, as when used 3 of a horse, I should recommend suit of those experiments I ma P ities either by the assistance of Senffios the pressure to be applied on First, place a bandage moderately tight instrument, or in the Allowing manne ^ lace a pad up0n the artery* from one extremity of the limb> tothe ^ & Pter probability of its being;m a few inches above the tumour, thatJsurrounding the limb, let the screw be fixed- sound state ; then, with a common -whole limb from the action of the mstru-' upon the pad, having previously secured^ 1T which means the artery onl, ment, by a piece of boardwider than the1 mb itseUi ghould thenbe twisteCl will be compressed when the screw is g > rg ag . experiment in the horse- till the pulsation in the tumour ceas<rs- the tourniquet may thenbe removed, ant the limb will become with the pad and roller no stronger pressure will be requn ed “a excites that degree of inflammatiotn The irritation produced by this mode: o P ’ f tbe vessel, thickens them of the artery which deposits coaguhble lymph ‘n^e eoats^^ ^ blood „ (pp u2(13. diminishes the cavity and even y d Qf treatment was adopted: in the one,t Hodgson mentions two cases m wh ch ™ "edalon r than tw0 hours, and in th< popliteal aneurysm, the pgain and swelling of the hml other, where “ it vns applns| compelled3 to abandon the practice.’(p.l7jM was so considerable that the ourge lsionbemade above the aneurysm, the a>m Richerand (c) observes, that i t P • , ,1’anvui in a neighbouring bone pressed artery must he superficial, an av ^ P hole circumference of the limb; i The compression also must not opera wgak t0 press down the walls of tb andgangrene of the limb by obliterating all # A touruiquet, or an pression is to be eat^elJ ai^abe aSed, which will make a strong pressure on a Pa[nc” * analogous instrument, should be useu, . ,vhUst the limb remains freely inMed. 1802‘ ^c) Nos08raPh,e c‘”™i8icale* voK211 BY COMPRESSION. at its end, graduated the pressure on the vessel at will. The pain at first prevented its constant application; but, by gradually accustoming himself to it, and increasing the force, he succeeded in weakening, and then in preventing the pulsations of the swelling which became adherent, hardened, and reduced to a little tubercle, formed doubtless by the coagulated blood, and adherent to the inside of the aneurysmal sac. The practice of Professor Dubois presents many instances of success by the same means.” (pp. 95, 6.) Compression for the cure of aneurysm, has, however, been little thought of, or employed in this country, till within the lust four yeurs, when it was revived by Hutton, of Dublin (a), for a case of popliteal aneurysm, as large as a hen’s egg, as the patient would not submit to the operation of tying the femoral artery. “ For three or four weeks he maintained the horizontal posture, and a compress and bandages were applied • nit, as the tumour gradually increased in size, and as he suffered pain from the pressure’ :lus treatment was.discpntmued ” On the 1st Nov. 1842, Hutton therefore applied an ustrument, ‘so contrived as to admit of pressure being made by a screw and pad upon he course of the femoral artery, and the counter-pressure upon the opposite surface of he limb, without interfering with the collateral circulation. In the first instance, the •ompression was made upon the femoral artery in the middle third of the thigh • and fCtUa m C,0mPressin/ this vessel, it produced so much uneasiness that .“fj “ott,be sus,amed> and after a few applications, the apparatus was removed, and f*th oPPer ?art °f t,he imb' Nov- 12, The femoral artery was compressed as r.T l pdmS 7der Podpart’s ligament, and the pressure maintained for • ,th 7/’ 10Utr,S- Nov' 14' The tumour feels rather more solid; the purring f r 0n the re-entrance of the blood into the sac, is no longer sensible ; thf b.etfore- Nov. 22. Duration of compression three hours; the pulsation n,r, d a.Pter ltS removal- Nov. 24. Artery compressed six hours: same result He niimour £ 7eSThepnpnXt daJ -°r SorenesVn tbe gr0in ; and be had some Paiu in the lUimoui. Nov. 26. The compression resumed, and continued for four hours ; when the istrument was removed, the pulsation had ceased in the tumour, which felt solid and ze and wS' soUd uowfeltln ‘he tumour. It had decreased in nn ft.lt ZT d' • N 7 6 compression was maintained for six hours ; no pulsa- [“5 impress,on applied three hours. Dec. 1. An artery, about the size of the ^mporal, is felt pulsating along the surface of the tumour, which is quite solid much Kd l tumour reduced to the size of a small walnut, and 't/r* *i / • ^as . .y discharged at his own request.” fpp. 364, 65 Verv ennn Her; “at'a hb h n P-P fd 1118 ^ument, the pad being screwed down on the femoral Sons in th. t P 38 P°SSlble’ and with a tnree sufficient to stop completely the ssMsil . his heart, and a sensadon of a r7h of iS t" 7 Sf70n °f the Pad’ tuning up tljirspiration on the forehead and vertex tu • Z° *1S bead’ accompanied by profuse .|llied. When quite SevereTZT a 5 6 lns.trument now loosened, and lie soon id for more than half 7 hour at tb^.pad,^a® again screwed down ; but he could not bear ■ e patient screwing down tl, lme- The apparatus was continued for five days i 4uned,it wi put Lffie lnd JftPai 38 he bear but no benefit having been I. arch, heZFgen takiSten7r™fnfP77 Fr™ 7-22nd JanuaiT to the^th of (MJfe tumour. March 18 Rp-u-s th e • 7 neurlsm > 110 compress or bandage was put on B' ^ Jo the h«a?‘V'f iUXnpT1' ^"tr,h»n tat; has Ti cf :1 'mou.r is decidedly harder and smaller tl7 ha"ge,ln the tumour. March 22. The in?s? «■ At>- f V y. . UU51'1 } At IU (n) ublin Journal of Medical Science, vol. xxiii. 1843. r 2TREATMENT OF ANEURYSM 212 enlarged artery above mentioned is 11 art can be traced until it enters the Tumour continues to decrease t y the pulsation is so weak aneurism; but in the lower third of ‘^tlngh.ana n ^ ^ enlarged artery has that it can oniy be felt on a carefol ^ 0f the affected limb now pulsates as become very small, while the: pop lmber yf hard cords can be felt passing over the strongly-asj that of the sound^o» 1 the san,e year (1843) BellinohW-(«) tumour.” (pp. 3G7, 08.) in t ic p b . fat external ifiac artery, which had been treated a case of secondary aneurys A, the sac had suppurated and filled hr tied by him a twelvemonth before, ££ perfectly at rest in tk granulation, reappeared on the 1 P ^ ^ u five or six ounces of blood horizontal posture, from the 3i . d digitalis given. About ten days after hi' twice taken from the arm and tartar emet c and digits g^ hower admission, the integ^ents became a 11 £ ^ of the tumour was made, hi occurred: and, on May U, pressure u f l tery ;n popliteal aneurysm, wa. means of the instrument for compressing ^Ration in the tumour.” Tk commenced ; but it appeared < ,be uext day the pad was applied to th( pressure was continued at intervals. and o ^ wa/kept ,lp the following Hire.; artery at the origin of the profunda. 1 P ,, * its pulsation diminished days, but discontinued at night; t^umour^ apparatus was therefore left off: but after a few days became more pereepj^ aud the app ^ ^ by 1 0 Some days subsequently, pressure was applie ) bod „ After gome days th compress, adhesive plaster, and bandage ftg 7 fl ^ re^sure gave no uneasiues tumour had diminished in size, and beca Qn the 20th of that month, “som and was continued till the beginning dJ’ d by pressure over its side, but d remains of the, “our coul l R any pnlsatiou be feltinth nulsation or bruit of any kind could be b ’ , a 17. jvf0 tumour can no' femoral artery, from Potpaut’s hgamen in the situation of the former swelling be felt; there is merely a little har^*s f al aneurysm in a man, who, fiftee Cn 243-6.) In 1844, m another case, which was a other limb cured by pressnn mouths previously, had had popliteal bae™yS™ad fiftten drops of tincture of digital Bellingham, after one bleeding ro ^ ag tkat which had cured the diseaselit for five days, applied the sames k .rad o when the pressure became painful the other limb, at the groin, telax g of orderj required removal, and was ten the third day the instrument, havi ig g upon which a four-pound weigl porarily replaced by a .tourniquet pada*f * hand) stopped the pdfc was placed, and this, with a shght pressur ^ sl}bstituted> the tumour was somewh. On the following day a seven-pound weig puisation was still very strong wk more firm, and rather dimmished m size, but^ b^ P ^ after tQ relieve the heat fc the pressure was removed. Ice wajpl ^ aypUed round the limb, from the te in the evening. On the eight , & thJ original pressure apparatus again p , r. £ the nineteenth day the firm, Jd smaller; the .suffers noPJ upon the artery in the upper third swelled, and he was oblig However, as it compressed the femoial1 vem^ ^ onthe same pnnwpM to remove it towai ds evening. iuinwimr seventeen days, but the tumour00 with an improved instrument for the following setenteei J ^ « but with a M (a) Dublin Journal, vol. xxvi. 184o.213 BY COMPRESSION. , i a vessel of some size was now. for the first time, felt, which ran superficially in the of Diirse of the femoral artery, and had evidently become enlarged since the filling up of le sac of the aneurism. The patient says that last night, about twelve o’clock, when e loosened the screw of the instrument, the aneurism no longer pulsated, from which me he suffered much pain, both in the tumour and about the knee.” These symptoms, awever, subsided on the following day, when, “ in addition to the superficial artery I ready mentioned in the course of the femoral, the articular arteries about the knee lore found enlarged, one of which, on the inside, is nearly as large as the radial artery.” in the fifiy-seveuth day “ the tumour was about the size and shape of a small hen’s hr, very firm and solid. The pulsation in the femoral artery can be traced from the j-oin to within a short distance of the obliterated sac of the aneurism.’’ (p. 248-54.) 1 Such are the results of the first three cases, in which aneurysm has been treated by impression by the Irish Surgeons, and Bellingham has enumerated (a) nine other ses in which it has been employed, three of which have been managed in England by iston, Allan, and GreaTrex, and the rest in Ireland, and all cured. Thus Cramp- in’s assertion (6), that “ intermediate compression, or compression from without (main- ined for a sufficient length of time to allow the blood in the aneurismal sac to coagulate) * id been tried and was found ineffectual,” (p. 359,) is proved to have been so only on ac- ;< uut of the inefficient mode of the application of external pressure. From this account Iiougli I have yet had no opportunity of practising this treatment, I must confess I mk it highly worthy of serious attention, and am much disposed to think I should try on a fitting occasion. Bellingham very justly observes, upon the advantage of .ernating pressure upon the artery, that “ the principal improvement which has taken ice in the treatment of aneurism by compression, consists in the mode of applying the issure; that is, instead of employing a single instrument, we employ two or “three if :essary; these are placed on the artery leading to the aneurismal sac : and, when the ■Wn!a0f b!iC°meu pain.fu1’ ** is relaxed> the o^er having been previously and’ b/.thus alternating the pressure, we can keep up continued compression any length of time. By this means the principal obstacle in the way of the employ- •nt of pressure has been removed ; the patient can apply it with comparatively little f06 t0 ttmself.• time will not be lost owing to the parts becoming painful or -onated fiom the pressure of the pad of the instrument; and, as the pressure need not interrupted for any length of time, the duration of the treatment will be necessarilv fisiderably abridged.” (p. 167.) With regard to the treatment of the artery which . been thus treated, Bellingham says“ It will be observed, from the histories •he cases which have been published, that the femoral arterv could be traced after i nc compressed, (p. 165.) This is a very interesting circumstance and snimm-te Hunter s opinion, that “the force of the circulation being taken’ off fron? the -unsmal sac, the progress of the disease would be stopped.”] 4 '.420. As regards the more precise determination of making use of nres- l e for the cure of aneurysm, it is advised by many to employ it in all VoSrTl hat T if 110 reiake place« a progressive^expa^sion of , .ollateral branches may be effected. It may be employed if the - ysm ie still recent, if it be not large, especially when the conse ence of an external injury; if there be no circumstances which render a cure necessary ; if the patient be not very stout, the limb not very jtfwi an1 * artei'y.P0 Situated’ that its walls can be properly g it together by compression. Where beneficial, it soon shows - the ITshodd riTT theref°re’ never ^ persisted in too long id or it dangerous It t T'' “ circu,f1tances occur which may I, rest |,K ! 1 , , always Prol)er to accompany the pressure 4 Of digitalis, ami T(fon° d appllCatl0ns to the swelling, and the internal is successful only in about one out fed rafter a, spomiSTZJrfSeSlym ““ *«**" * «► (a) Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. vii. a.\ r, n. _ « of Surgery. Lonao^lS^v",^"™^01’ XXVH’ 1845‘TREATMENT OF ANEURYSM 214 1421. Tying the aneurysmal artery (the Operation for aneurysm) isthfi most certain mode of treatment; and there are two modes in which n r performed. The one, laid down in the ancient Greek Surgeiy, ) niuf agiuus and Antyllus, which consists in opening the aneurysmal sac., removing the coagulated blood, and tying the artery above and below ,t the other where the artery is laid bare and tied above the swelling, between it and the heart, upon which the swelling diminishes and disappears (1). ,. 11 i |1 _ TT A lthouirll it luni Ka rn This mode If operation is usually called the Hunterian. Although it had bee (1) this moae oi <q and Desault (b), it was, however, first raised to JS st Hunter, notwithstanding i merely a repetition of the operation pet laboriously endeavoured to show'that i.was “er J^.^eino and subsequentlyb formed by their countrymanis offered by bE Desault, in June, 1 <85. Hunter’s originality in reference to his operation ; ar. “d »f d'“dit—h here misplaced. , , Wmohial arterv of a friar which had bee- Anel’s operation was performed , till the fifteenth day after the injur wounded in venesection, but w ic . j bandaee. Anel’s account of tl when it was checked by the use o S wen understand its tn disease is oT^ne&ection’to tha^oAbe operatioD. we see tb SKSl-'SSiS aneurysm, a false one, and a tiue ^ it was none other than the ordinal, however, that during the whole course of the dise^e_it norm ■ ^ obfem spuriousaneurysmfollowngawoundin an artery,wh^J^ ^ ^ called . “will produce various effects^accord & in an* artery, an aneurism even many aneurisms. but I do n t thug describes the operation performed on tl m an aneurism itself. ^ " master of the blood by means of a toun 30th January, DIO,r. Suments without touching, in any way, the aneun quet, I made an incision in the int, ^ j found situated below the nerve, which mal sac; I then sought foi ?’ • seDarating it from this, and having lifted not common. I took every precai P possible. The artery having be- upon a hook, I ligatured it as near to the tumour aspmMe. i ^ divided tied I loosened the tournique , ^ ® immediately to tighten the tourniquet ai dissecting the vessel, bled.and «®peUed ™ee\”^tybeingioseued, 1 saw no mo to tie the artery again a little higher P, tbeu applied the proper dressings ai bleeding nor any ptdsation in the tu • I * ^ the av?ery at the wrist w “7,* f J Jon 1 On the following day pulsation of the artery at the wnst a bandage. ™g In his reflections on the :ff'- _w Lhore describe, trhieh IK In his reflections on the ^t****™^'„u,i?rs de^ribe. which I the operation, I performed it mvself had recourse to several tunes, seen good Surgeons adopt, and wh c . y above and below the aneurism. I « (o') Suite de la nouvelle M Fistule lachrymal-. Turin- 11 copied this account from as the copy of Anei,, w_-- not contain this notice.—J. 1 • =>• b,< rurgien anglois. 1 arid, lTMoi ®, ..QiSitfo* Train- historique et dogmatlque de l e 1*”“ la Taille, vol. iv. 1’^is. 179b-'. -. . (d) Lectures on the Principles ol Works, edited by Palmeb.215 BY LIGATURE. iberty to pass on towards the extremity ; that the sac, being once empty, would not fill [(rain; that the layers of membrane that formed it would not fail to collapse ; and that ihus the tumour would disappear, all which happened as I thought. In this way the iperation was less tedious, and much less painful; besides, my incision was not half the ual length, hence there was a smaller cicatrix.” (p. 223.) The tumour collapsed in such way that it would have been impossible to have ascertained the spot where the aneu- rism existed.” (p. 222.) Desault’s operation, as stated by Sabatier (a), was performed in June, 1785, upon popliteal aneurysm which “ had acquired the size of a turkey-hen’s egg; the patient vas thirty years of age. * * * Desault made an incision about two inches in length ,t the upper part of the tumour, laid the artery bare, separated it from the nerve and tie! t * * * On the sixth day he tied a ligature of reserve, that he had placed under the rtery above the first one. The state of the wound and of the patient was such as to r romise a speedy cure.” The tumour diminished to half its size and the ligature came way on the eighteenth day. “ On the following day the wound discharged a tolerable lrge quantity of matter mixed with blood, and the tumour disappeared almost entirely; n evident sign of the rupture of the aneurismal sac. After this nothing was left but a stulous opening which healed in a few days.” (p. 403.) Erichsen (6) observes:—“ From the following remark by Maunoir it would appear bat little importance was attached to the operation at the time'even by Desault himself. |l lived,’ says Maunoir, ‘ two years with Desault, and I do not remember to have ■er heard him speak of this operation. It had not been considered of consequence; and general, it seemed to me, that it was quoted without being understood and after very ague reports.’ ” (p. 403.) Desault’s operation was also performed by Pott after Hunter had performed his jw operation, in a case of femoral aneurysm of which E. Home gives a brief and not try clear account in the paper presently to be cited from ; it did not, however, succeed, id amputation became necessary, at what period, however. Home does not state. I have heard it mentioned that John Hunter was indebted to Ford, for the sug- ?stion at least, it no more, of his mode of operating in cases of aneurysm. It is not . all improbable that Hunter’s mind may have been led to the operation he afterwards ractised, from his reflection on the two cases of Ford’s, presently to be mentioned : it this appears to be all Ford had to do with the matter, as it is very unlikely he undd not have taken notice of the subject, had he any claim to it, in the paper (c) 1 published between two and three years after Hunter's first operation: and, in fact, ; utterly discourages any kind of operation. He says:—“ An aneurysm of the larger issels, when it occurs m the trunk of the body, is a disease that is usually fatal, and is not uncommonly so when it happens in the extremities; the mode of cure in the ter case, whether by amputation of the limb or by tying the artery, being universally lowed to be hazardous. * * * The cases I now communicate to you serve to establish , e tact, that in cases of aneurysm the efforts of nature alone, unassisted by art, have oduced m the coats of the vessel a coalescence of its sides, firm enough to render the ILimperV,10US the, !,mpetuS of the blood’ whilst the circulation in the extremity ' mour”7nn yi!oP5°i\te obiy 7° C°llateral brauches gohig off above the aneurysmal hirin' L’ PP 2'430 Th.e hist case he met with, several years previous to pub- SlanllTti ^ f p°p'lteal aneurysm in a chairman. “ He was admitted into an Kd thl l T6 m?,nth,S.’ When he called np°n me,” (again,) says Ford, tie weaker th™ 7°^ had total y disappeared, and that the limb was wasted, and a uirv l ^. l ! h,6 T’ bu‘ that he was caPable of doing his business. Upon could be ascribed to any other means than to i»ht rTk f 7 ’ th Whl?h an horizontal position of the body, and a regular diet •*» of » fe«r, and afthe £8 I not, the circumstances nf°th ^ a d°Ubt at'°Sj whether tbe tumour was aneurysmal ferekce te l c °f.the case were not deemed strong enough to iustifV any es.^^ The ease was fhat of TZtei rt of the rinht thikt, i ‘ ^ 10 ba^; a tumour situated on the anterior and upper ;e of a turkSs t7f’mT7th,r7 ,nches below Podpart's ligament. It was of the ^elling ablim thfkize oft nniw/ Pulsati°n'” He had also, “at the same time, ;lt a tremulous pulsation ” fn 141 ^ C®r m the .,am the other leg’ ln which was i'gh had considerably incre^ed1-4^.! al0ntlls. after, the swelling in the right y cieased, and fiom the irritation, probably dependent on a P,ted at liea<1 of article. I ' e,aaes of the Spontaneoi (a) Medecine Operatoire. Paris, 179fi. 'pontaneous Cure of Aneurism, with Remarks; in London Medical Journal, vol. ix. l/oo.216 TREATMENT OF ANEURYSM mustard poultice having been applied, and a cordial regimen directed by an empiric to promote suppuration, he had a very severe attack of fever, which, however, by proper treatment was relieved. No operation was proposed for fear of mortification and fatal haemorrhage. “ We now examined the other leg,” says Ford, “but found no traces left of the swelling I had formerly seen.” Six weeks after he died with ganging* of the right thigh, without haemorrhage. On examination of the left ham, “ externally there was no mark left of the tumour ; but upon cutting down to the vessel, we found the popliteal artery enlarged to the size of a small hazel nut. On opening the artery both above and below this tumour, and eudeavouring to pass a director and a probe, it was found to be quite impervious to the instruments, although some force was used: and upon further examination, it was found plugged up by a substance of a hard and firm consistence.” (p. 148.) The last case was a femoral aneurysm, seen by Ford in September, 1785, when it “was about the size of a middle-sized China orange, and obviously increasing. The situation of it was so high up as to admit of no hope ol preserving his life by removing the limb, or by tying up the artery. It was, therefore r only recommended to him to lie in bed, to keep his bowels open by gentle laxatives, and to live upon a very spare diet.” (p. 149.) Among the professional people who saw this, man, and by whose concurrence compression at the groin was made, but could not bt persevered in on account of the severity of the pain, Hunter is mentioned; but this case could not have encouraged or induced him to perform his new operation, because “ for four months (from September) those symptoms continued to prevail which usually precede a fatal termination,” and it was only “ at the end of six months that the mat began to think the pulsation was not so strong in the swelling, and that it had ceased ti increase. * * * In the month of March, (three months after Hunter had operated oi his patient,) the circumference of the tumour was much lessened, and the pain hat ceased; the tension was also diminished, the inflammation of the skin had given way and was now become scabious, putting on a mottled look, and appearing in some part brown, and in others of an orange colour, (pp. 150, 51.) For two months afterward: the tumour continued to lessen. * * * He was sent into the country, where he soot recovered his strength and the use of his limbs so much, that in three months he war able to walk several miles with a stick.” After the lapse of two years, he was folly recovered; but “ the thigh was two inches and a half in circumference larger than the other, and there was a hard incompressible tumour where the aneurism was, but whicl gave him no uneasiness.” (pp. 151, 52.) From this account, it is quite clear that the second is the only case which could at all have attracted the attention of such a mine as that of Hunter, and lead to the proposal of his operation; but neither of the threi seemed to have impressed Ford beyond the importance of quiet, and its adequacy t< effect the natural cure of the disease; and from his review of these, as well as of th< cases recited by Guattani, he infers—“ 1st. That nature is capable of effecting tin cure of many aneurisms solely by her own efforts. 2nd. That these efforts have beer successful even when counteracted by improper treatment, as in the (second) case of tb popliteal aneurism (no mention, however, is made of such improper treatment in tb recital of the case. j. f. s.) ; but that a quiet position of the limb, with an antipklogisti regimen, contributes to the cure. 3rd. That the cure by nature is a permanent one 4th. That the inert mass left behind is not likely to produce any mischief. 51k. Tha the unsuccessful event of the operation for the popliteal aneurism, does not principal!’ depend on any particular hazard in consequence of an obstructed circulation in tb ham, but upon other causes.” (p. 155.) The first notice of John Hunter’s improvement in the operation for aneurysm, wa given by Everard Home in the year 1786 (a), and in that subsequent, the uissectio of the case. He also published another paper (6), giving the history of all the case on which Hunter operated, together with some by other Surgeons. In the first pape Home introduces the case with the following remarks :— “ The common method of operating in cases of popliteal aneurism having, in many it stances, proved unsuccessful, the operation itself has been condemned by some of ou most eminent Surgeons. If we consider the eases in which it has been performed, an where the patients have died, we shall probably find that in all of them the artery ha been diseased at the part enclosed by the ligature, and had either sloughed off, or ha been cut through where it was tied, so that the sides of the artery, though broopa together, had not remained a sufficient length of time in that situation to unite by tb forming (he Operation for the Core of tin' Aneurism, containing all the cases on ' ' had then operated ; in Transactions of the Improvement of Med. and Chir. Know! I together, («) An Account of Mr. Hunter’s Method of performing the Operation for the Cure of the Pop- liteal Aneurism ; in London Medical Journal, vol. vii. 1786, vol. viii. 1787. (6) An Account of Mr. Hunter’s Method of per- aprovement vol. i. 1(93, mmmBY LIGATURE. 217 irst intention, and the patients lost their lives from the consequent hmmorrhage. The f r'emoral and popliteal arteries are portions of the same trunk, presenting themselves on a litfereut sides of the thigh, and are readily come at in either situation : but where the •. irtery is passing from the one side to the other, it is more buried in the surrounding | iarts, and cannot be exposed without some difficulty. In performing the operation for £ he popliteal aneurism, especially when the tumour is large, the ligature is commonly >! ipplied on the artery at that part where it emerges from the muscles. This will be too i- imited a space, should it prove diseased for some way higher up; and if the artery l houltl afterwards give way from any of the causes above mentioned, there will not be a efficient length of vessel remaining to allow of its being again secured in the ham. To follow the artery up through the insections of the triceps muscle, to get at a portion >f it where it is sound becomes a very disagreeable part of the operation; and to make ■a incision on the fore part of the thigh, to get at and secure the femoral artery, would •e breaking new ground—a thing to be avoided, if possible, in all operations. From hese considerations, suggested by the accident of the artery giving way, which hap- i ened several times to Mr. Hunter, he proposed, in performing this operation, that the rtery should be taken up at some distance from the diseased part, so as to diminish the isk of haemorrhage, and admit of the artery being more readily secured, should any uch accident happen. The force of the circulation being thus taken off from the aneuris- aal sac, the cause of the disease would, in Mr. Hunter’s opinion, be removed; and he bought it highly probable that if the parts were left to themselves the sac, with the lagulated blood contained in it, might be absorbed, and the whole of the tumour moved by the actions of the. animal economy, which would consequently render any penmg into the sac unnecessary.” (p. 391-93.) J 1422. The operation for aneurysm is generally indicated—1. Ifcompres- ion be not applicable. 2. When, as regards the position of the artery it j ail be employed, but cannot be borne. 3. When the aneurysm, already j, lrge, threatens to burst, or has burst. 4. In spurious diffused aneurysm men the effusion of blood is considerable. The result of the operation for | neurysm is extremely doubtful, if several aneurysms exist in the same “ erson’ “ the Patient be in years, or weakly, if from the size of the swelling I estruction of the bones and neighbouring parts have been produced’ :r erebj, perhaps, the collateral branches have been closed ; if the arterial oats be rigid, or in any other way changed by disease, and compression, ) swathing the limb, have been too long employed. The lara-er the nncipal trunk to be tied is, the more doubtful is the prognosis; the / distance rendered by nature by the enlargement of the collateral circu- ttion is, however, very remarkable, and under the most unfavourable ircumstances the treatment often presents the happiest results. tyVhrce colllteS *at Surgeons have laid too much stress on theneces- y o large collateral branches being present, to ensure the snoopy nf +v,;0 +• ssr-Kr-rtB tery.-J F. S.]S 11 and the heart' on a presumed healthy part of the t'on2ttJ)he‘aXvi,°LtTnn r3'S,',''’ h V”**the «“’>afto «"> <*cu- aneurysmal nail ?l i' J by l.he “PPlication of a tourniquet above cut,whiA mJStoS w,”^.VeT8d,he S"el,in« is t0 be divided by to be opened in the «mc ,r " ,-Ve ° )elow it; the sac of the aneurysm ivity cleansed The S lrectl0n) all the blood-clot removed, and the 1 ' lhe Surgeon then endeavours to find out the proper218 HUNTER’S OPERATION opening of the artery, introduces into it a probe or a female catheter, with which the artery is to be raised above the sac and separated from the surrounding parts; a ligature is then to be passed round it with Desciiamps’ • needle (1) and tied. In this way the artery is to be isolated and tied above the swelling. (What will subsequently be said, in reference to the form of the ligature, applies here.) The cavity of the sac is then cleansed ; filled lightly with lint, covered with sticking-plaster and a compress'' and the whole kept in its proper place with a four-headed bandage. (1) Desciiamps’ needle is the most convenient instrument for a ligature; if made of silver, it can assume every necessary curve. Weiss’s and Kirby’s needles are suitable for some cases of very deep-lying arteries. As to the numerous varieties of aneurysmal needles, compare— Arnemann, Uebersicht der beriihmtesten und gebrauchlichsten Instrumente alteren und neuerer Zeit. Gottingen, 1796, p. 193. Krombiiolz, Akologie, p. 391. Holtze, De arteriarum ligatura. Berol., 1827. 4to., pi. ix. 1424. Hunter’s mode of operation requires the laying bare and isola- tion of the artery at a suitable distance above the seat of aneurysm (1). It i is here especially to be remembered, that the artery should be separated from its surrounding cellular sheath only as far as is necessary to carry' around it, with Desciiamps’ needle, a round, but not too thick ligature, ■ which is to be firmly tied upon the artery with two single knots (2). The ends of the thread should be laid in one or other angle of the wound, the edges of which are to be brought into close contact with sticking-plaster, ■» in order to effect the cure, if possible, by quick union. The ligature separates, according to the size of the artery, between the eighth and six- teenth day. I consider tying the artery with a single round ligature, by which its inner and middle coats are divided, (ascertained by the artery forming a swelling above and below the ligature, and by the ligature being heaved up by the impulse of the blood,) with the < simultaneous simple treatment of the wound, as the most preferable mode of treatment (pars. 283, 285.) The different modifications must, however, be here mentioned, which have been proposed for the more certain attainment of a successful result. Scarpa (a) holds, in opposition to Jones, (who concludes from his own experiments, that the division of the internal coat of the artery, with a single round ligature, favours the formation of a plug of blood, the adhesive inflammation, and the pouring out of plastic lymph within and without the artery,) that this result happens less frequently in men than in animals, that after-bleeding occurs the more quickly, as on the setting up of suppuration, the external coat of the artery is less capable of withstanding the impulse j of the blood, and that this happens so much the earlier, as the division of the arterial < coats by the ligature-thread resembles more a torn and bruised, than a cut wound. Also that the ligature-thread does not bring both the divided coats together, but only tie wrinkled walls of the external. As the internal coat of the artery is very much disposed* to adhesive inflammation, and plastic exudation, so a pressing together of the artery is sufficient to bring about adhesion. Upon these grounds, Scarpa prefers, to all other' modes, tying the artery with a small band of waxed threads, between which and the artery, a little linen cylinder, smeared with cerate, is placed. Iu this mode, however, the artery must be laid bare, no further than necessary to carry the baud round it, nor the cylinder be longer than a line, or thereabouts, beyond the ligature, which, for the largest artery, should be about a line. The band must not be drawn excessively, but only sufiN ciently tight to keep the uninjured walls in close contact. By this plan of tying.* closure of the artery is produced by the actual joining together of the touching walls of- the artery. Such flattening of the artery and touching of its walls, had been previously - performed with broad ligatures, with the underlaying of a piece of wood or cork (3> Deschamps (b), more recently Crampton (c), Assalini (d), and Kohler (e) 'ia'e (a) Memoria sulla Legatura delle principali Arterie degli Arti; con una Appendice all’ Opera gull’ Aneurisma. 4to. Pavia, 1S17.—VaccaBek- i.inohieri, A., Istoria di una Allacciatura dell’ Iliaca estema c Itellessioni sull’ Allacciatura tern- poraria delle grandi Ai'Cli!. Pisa, 1823. (6) Above cited, f. 1—1. , (c) In Medico-Chirurg. Trans., vol. vil. p* (*’) Dissert, ststens quredam de Ancurysmati^o* scalpelli ope ra curanuis. llerol., 1818.219 FOR POPLITEAL ANEURYSM. attempted to operate with peculiar arterial compresses; these metallic contrivances are, however dangerous, and in reference to their operation on the coats of the aitery, and the parts surrounding it, not comparable to the soft cylinder which adapts itself to the periphery of the artery. ...... Joses (a) advanced the opinion, that, if upon a large artery several circular ligatures be made near each other, whereby as many tears of the internal coat are produced, and the threads be immediately removed, the plastic lymph effused into the cavity of the artery is sufficient for its obliteration. Hodgson (jb) has, by experiment, disproved this opinion. Trayeks (c) recommended, but subsequently disadvised such treatment. Cases, how- ever, are given, in which the ligature was removed twenty-four hours (d), and fifty and a half hours (e), after tying, and the cure ensued. Scarpa also has observed, that the closure of the artery follows, if the ligature, with its subjacent linen cylinder, be removed on the third or fourth day; only in weakly persons is it necessary to leave the ligature till the sixth day. Scarpa, as well as others, have made known cases favour- able to this mode of treatment. His mode of applying the ligature with a subjacent cylinder specially facilitates its removal. Scarpa uses a peculiar grooved probe, cleft in front aud open, aud a small knife for loosening the ligature. The proposals of Palletta and Roberts must be here mentioned; by means of a sliding thread, the tightened principal loop may be again loosened; by Giuntini, one thread is attached to a little roller, in order to draw it out after the loop is cut through; Uccelli introduces a small metal half cylinder between the linen roller and the loop (f). Vacca Beri.inghieri (<j) is in favour of Scarpa’s mode of tying with the linen roller, but not for the removal of the ligature on the fourth day. The experiments, as regards the temporary ligature on the human subject, are not yet sufficiently numerous to decide whether it should be gene- rally employed, or only in particular cases, perhaps in old subjects and so on. It is i always to be remembered, that the removal of the roller acts as an interruption, for it is r firmly pressed on the artery by the loop, clings tight to it, and cannot be removed without tearing, even after the loop has been cut through. In order to get rid of the inconve- nience dependent on the threads hanging out of the wound, Lawrence (A) proposed tying 1 the artery with a fine silk thread, cutting it off at the knot, and closing the wound, (for ; '.he same reason, Astley Cooper (i) used silk-worm gut previously moistened in warm water,) as the retained knots are either absorbed or enclosed in a cellular capsule. Many cases, however, decide against this mode of tying (j). Maunoir (k) and Aber- 2 s’ethy (1), under the supposition that the tied artery retracts actively, and thereby ii specially produces tearing and secondary bleeding, advised the application of two liga- ures, and the division of the artery between (4). The rarity of secondary bleeding l ifter amputation, which has been considered as a reason for the preference of this mode of .V ying, is on more than one ground inapplicable; experience is opposed to this method of ; ying; besides, in many cases, it cannot be undertaken, on account of the want of space, >r the deep situation of the artery. The application of the so-called reserve ligature, p hat is, some threads which in case of secondary bleeding may be drawn together, is not a inly useless, but dangerous, and therefore to be rejected. | 1(1) The operation of tying the femoral artery, for popliteal aneurysm, the first upon l. rhich John Hunter (to) operated by his new method, Dec. 1785, was conducted in the fol- ? owing manner:— “ A tourniquet was previously applied but not tightened, that the parts t aight be left as much in their natural situation as possible ; and he began the operation by 4 naking an incision on the fore and inner part of the thigh, rather below its middle, f fhieh incision was continued obliquely across the lower edge of the sartorius muscle, nd was made large to give room for the better performing of whatever might be i 'ecessary in the course of the operation ; the fascia, which covers the artery, was then t aid bare for about three inches in length, and the artery being plainly felt, a slight 9 n<-'si°n’ about an inch long, was made through this fascia along the side of the vessel, * n( 1116 facia dissected off, by which means the artery was exposed. Having dis- (fl) A Treatise on the Process employed by Na- re in suppressing Ilaimorrlmge, &c., and on the « or the Ligature, &c. London, 1810. Bvo. W Above cited, p. 228. L (^2^‘k-Chir.Trans.vol. iv. p. 435,vol.vl. p. G32. : ' i • "e MC(lical nn<l Surgical Register, consist- It chiefly of cases in the New York Hospital, by V. Mott, A. H. Stevens. New York. «;.< 18. p. lo7-163. 5 («) Roberts, W.;!,, Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. xi. ■ • >• p. 100. ' l>rof- Scar,‘a "1 Lottori Omodki 'i rti (,'tosse Arterie degli O'/) Seii.er’s Sammlung von Abhandlnngen, u. s. w.—Sf.ii.er has made some experiments, and is favourable to Scarpa’s temporary Ligature. Ib., p.156. (/i) Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. viii. p. 490. (ij Surgical Essays, part i. p. 126. (j) Cross ; in London Medical Repositorv, vol. vii p. 363.—Cooper, A., Lectures on Surgery, vol. ii. p. 57. yO Dissert, sur la Section de TArterc entre deux Ligatures dans l’operation de TAnevjrisme. Paris, an xni. (0 Surgical Works, vol. i. p. 151. (m) London Medical Journal, vol. vii.HUNTER’S OPERATION FOR- 220 engaged the artery from its lateral connections by the knife, and from the parts behind it by means of the end of a thin spatula, a double ligature passed behind it by means of an eyed probe, and the artery tied, by both portions of the ligature, but so slightly as only to compress its sides together ; a similar application of ligature was made a little lower- and the reason for passing four ligatures was to compress such a length of artery as might make up for the want of tightness, as he chose to avoid great pressure on the vessel at any one part. The ends of the ligature were carried directly out at the wound, the sides of which were now brought together and supported by sticking- plaster and a linen roller, that they might unite by the first intention. ♦ * * 'phe ■ fourth day, Qn the removal of the dressings, the edges of the wound were found >i united through its whole length, excepting w-here prevented by the ligatures. * * * On the ninth day after the operation there was a considerable discharge of blood from the part where the ligatures passed out; a tourniquet was therefore applied on the artery v above, which stopped the bleeding; and although the tourniquet was taken off a few hours after, no blood followed. The head of a roller was now placed upon the wound, ij in the direction of the artery, and over that the tourniquet, which was not tightened more than was thought sufficient to take off the impetus of the blood in that portion of j the artery. * * * On the fifteenth day some of the ligatures came away, followed by ■ I a small discharge of matter, and the tumour in the ham was lessened. * * * About ; the latter end of January, 1786, six weeks after the operation, the patient went out of i the hospital, the tumour at that time being somewhat lessened, and rather firmer to the feel. He was ordered to make some degree of pressure, by applying a compress and bandage, with a view to excite the absorbents to action. * * * March the eighth, the t wound which had cicatrized, broke out again, and the patient was taken into the:■ hospital. About the eighth of April, some remaining threads of the ligature came- away, and an inflammation appeared upon the upper part of the thigh. In the middle of May a small abscess broke at some distance from the old cicatrix, at which opening some matter was discharged, but no pieces of ligature were observed. . Several small threads were, at different times, discharged at the old sores, and the swelling subsided; but the thigh soon swelled again to a greater size than before, attended with considerable pain. In the beginning of July a piece of ligature, about an inch in length, came away, after which the swelling subsided entirely, and he left the hospital the eighth day of July, at which time there remained no tumour in the bam, and he was in every respect well.” (p. 394-98.) Among the few remarks - which E. Home makes on this case, he says :—“ Mr. Hunter now rather disapproves the application of a number of ligatures, in the manner practised in the above case, as these - cannot come away without producing ulceration of the artery which they enclose, a tedious process when the ligature is not drawn tight; neither do I believe he would be: again inclined to heal up the wound by the first intention, but rather to allow the cut i surface to inflame and suppurate, by which he would have it more in his power to come at the artery, should that prove necessary; and probably, by means of the dressings, < he might make a gentle compression to assist the ligatures.” (p. 399.) Birch (a), of St. Thomas’s Hospital, performed, I believe, the second operation after i Hunter’s mode, in a case of femoral aneurism, resulting from a blow. “ On examifl I ation I found,” says he, “ a large tumour extending within two inches of Pour art’s | ligament upwards, and occupying two-thirds of the thigh; a pulsation could be felt. \ and there was no doubt of the disease being an aneurism of the femoral artery. * * * ; On Friday the third of November, (1786,) it was determined to perform the operation. | Mr. Cline undertook to compress the artery as it passed through Poupart’s ligament, | which he easily effected with a hard compress in the shape of a T with a broad basis. H It was agreed previous to the operation, that an incision should be carried in a semi- M circular form round the upper part of the aneurismal sac, in order to make room for a the longitudinal incision necessary to dissect down to the artery. This was accordingly i done; and the integuments raised, so as to make room to feel for the pulsation of the 1 artery. Some portion of cellular membrane and some lymphatic glands, were neces- * sarily dissected and removed with my fingers. I then separated the muscular fibres, ft and tore away the connecting parts, till the artery could be plainly felt in pulsation, j It was then necessary to divide a part of the fascia covering the artery, which was- c done by carrying the back of the knife on Mr. Cline’s nail, while his finder pressed*I upon the naked artery, after which the finger and thumb could surround and compre^ the vessel. An eye probe, armed with a strong flat ligature, was then pressed tbrongn i the cellular membrane and carried under the artery. This being effected, we had suen command of the vessel as to be able to strip it downward and pass another ligatun q (a) London Medictd Journal, vol. vii.; in Home’s paper just quoted.221 POPLITEAL ANEURYSM. somewhat lower. This last ligature was then tied, the first being left loose to secure us against accident. The threads being separated and secured, the wound was lightly dressed, the tumour left in its natural situation, and the patient put to bed with the loss of only four or five ounces of blood during the operation. No pulsation could be 1 perceived in the tumour after the ligature was tied.” (p. 401-403.) He went on well till the seventh day, when it is stated “ the tumour grew thinner at one point and seemed as if disposed to ulcerate the integuments. On the evening of the eighth day he became fever- ish.” On the tenth day “ the tumour was very thin in one part, and a fluctuation evidently to be felt. The limb was warm and movable, but the patient was feverish and delirious at uight.” In this state he continued till the twelfth day, when he became sensible. “ The tumour burst and discharged serum and grumous blood; he fainted; the dressings were not disturbed ; he slept composedly; fainted again about six o’clock in the evening, and ;xpired.” (pp. 404, 405.) The examination after death, in this case, showed “the blood in the tumour very putrid, and the greater part of it fluid; it appeared to be dissolved jy putrefaction. Water injected by the external iliac artery escaped freely from the .vound at the ligature, where the artery was open, and appeared to have ulcerated at hat part. In dilating the artery from the ligature to the heart, its internal surface ippeared of a bright red. This appearance lessened at the curvature of the aorta, yet ,t was very evident in its semilunar valves. The arteria profunda, which passed off from the femoral artery rather less than half an inch above the ligature, was also |nflamed within.” There were nearly two inches of the femoral artery between the ligature and the aneurismal sac. (pp. 405, 6.) It may be here added, on Sir Astley Cooper's authority, that the femoral artery in the space between the ligature and the urofunda contained no clot, which he considered to have depended on the nearness of he latter artery to the ligature having prevented the formation of an internal clot, by he continuous flow of blood into that vessel. I am, however, by no means sure hat this was really the case ; it is very true that in the preparation which is in St, Thomas s Museum no clot is apparent, as the femoral artery is slit upwards from the ligature to its full extent; but it seems very probable that by the injection of the water hat a clot might easily have been disturbed, and when the vessel was laid open that it tight have dropped out unnoticed, as at the time of this case, such a circumstance was lot much thought of. (2) The importance of opening the sheath to the least possible extent, which its omplete isolation and the application of the ligature,will admit, cannot be too strongly impressed Nor less important is doing this with the least possible disturbance of the tsition of the vessel, which ought never to he lifted up nor dragged, as too frequently lone. I think it is best after opening the sheath, to separate the artery gently with the .irector previous to passing the aneurysmal needle behind it. Some persons prefer Jeschamps needle, the curve of which will be found to require adaptation correspond- nt with the depth and situation of the artery. Others prefer a blunt-pointed flexible uver needle without a handle, for the introduction of the ligature. I do not think it , mnch consequence which is employed; it is the dexterity and knowledge of the •urgeon, not the instrument that he employs, upon which the proper performance of the *' T)er‘l.tlon depends. Especial care should also be taken that no nerve be included in l ®/t’:gtt,Ure ii a!ld lf.the Pftient should express great pain at the time the thread is rst tightened, there is good reason to believe this has been done, and it will be neces- | Jit® Carefful examination and even loosen the knot, to be sure of the perfect l °‘, on °f artery, otherwise dangerous symptoms will ensue. The size of the ■gature should accord with that of the artery to be tied. As to the material, A™ ,IER l"3*3 accustomcd t0 use Dutch twine, but round strong silk is generally Kd’ and •!? Stren,g.th tested before it is applied, or it may break upon the artery hold*?} a<j?f?eint wb,ch i have witnessed more than once or twice. The artery r thumbs AU '-ftCid iup frT lts bed m makinS the knots, but the ends of the forefingers eedfuWA carried dowi; the wound to it, and then the tie made. Nor do I believe it urpose as ith'Lh^nf‘ c*ceedl!lgI/ ,t5ght as commonly recommended for the hat the whole of the intern^ rouSh tlie internal coat; it should be drawn so much, hould indent the J'xtemlVcoIi Af fi^ brough.t lnt° close contact, and that the silk led moderatedv iffht l l I -10 Tw1 ’ “ othf words, the ligature should be olutely necessary for the lie7e that ^“g thr°ugh the internal coat is abso- arotid artery of i dorr i ‘PP lcatlon ot ,a ligature. A thread applied around the efficient to cause tnflammatinr^T v T n ?"teffe.re with passage of the blood, is n experimermad7bTmfr;I ’f "(l!‘ bl°ck U “P completely, as was proved by cpeated with the like result mastei>the younger Cline, and which I myself haveTEMPORARY LIGATURE. 222 (3) In the Museum of St Thomas’s Hospital there are two preparations, in which the femoral artery was tied with a broad tape and removed after some hours by the elder Clink (a\ in cases of popliteal aneurysm. In one case, the artery being laid bare, a double tape, about an inch broad, and one piece lying over the other, was passed by means of an instrument behind the artery. The piece of tin which conducted the tape was cut off, and a cork nearly an inch long was laid upon the artery and confined to its situation by means of the upper tape, producing in this way, a sufficient pressure upon the vessel included between the ligature and cork to stop the circulation, and, consequently, the pulsation of the tumour in the liam. The other portion of tape* was left loose. The intention of securing the artery in this way was, to compress the sides of the vessel together, and produce union without ulcera tion. On the ninth day the tapes were removed, and every thing seemed to be going on very favourably when the patient was attacked by a fever, supposed to have been caught from another patient in the same ward, of which he died on the seventeenth day after the operation. On examination of the limb after death, it was found that ulceration had taken place, though the whole extent of the artery included in the tape and sinuses were formed botlApwards and downwards in the course of the thigh to some distance. In the other case similarly treated, the operation was successful, but the patient died three monthih after, of diseased lungs. Both these preparations are in the Museum at St. Ihomass- HCrampton (now Sir Philip), of Dublin, holding (6) that the division of the internal and middle coats is precisely the kind of injury which a diseased artery is least able to bear with impunity ; and that, “ accordingly, secondary haemorrhage, or even aneurism, is not an unfrequent consequence of this operation,” (p. 358,) adopted a modification of CWs use of a temporary ligature. “The femoral artery was laid bare, at the usual place, by an incision not exceeding three inches m length, and a tape one-eighffi. of an inch in breadth, was passed under it by means of an aneurism-needle. The ends of the ligature were passed through the holes in the foot of the presse-artere, and then* crossed through the hole in its stalk. The artery was gently compressed by drawing the two ends8 of the ligature in an opposite direction, until the pulsation had ceasedLi The\bjature was then secured by passing a small peg of wood through the hole in m staik Soon after he had excruciating pain in the calf of his leg, and this contmumg, at the end of two hours Crabipton “ determined to relay the ligature, as well to ascer-r t • bow far the pain was excited by its pressure, as to observe what progress had been made ?n the mocess of coagulation; the peg was withdrawn from the hole m the stalk.: of the instrument, and the ligature was thus left at liberty to yield, to any impulse tlub it SSe from the artery. I watched for five minutes, with my hand upon the tumour, and as the pulsation did not recur, the peg was r^“d; ^ “ toth7Jreature ligature at the degree of tension it now possessed. on day for nearly an hour, but the pulsation returned no more. (p. 369 ) 1 he pat vprpd Crampton’s instrument consists of a short cylinder, ha c , a -S-S hole near the top of the cylinder, where they are crossed and tied, a little s down upon this tie, by which the ligature can be tightened. . cheath Lisfranc (c) saysIf an artery be of a yellow co our, it is diseased; its sheam must not then be opened, but must be tied with the vessel; he has often tren follow this excellent practice with success, (p. &£•) . . , forceps TBHe prefers opening the sheath with his nail, rather than by raising it with fore P and cutting it with a knife, or opening it with a director. (P- -8-_ ^tween them (4) The8 application of two ligatures, and the division ofthe arterj' t tt* j; hq recommended by Abernethy, is now very rarely adopted, and a sii g P a(jvis certainly preferable; yet I cannot think with Abernethy, that his opera Thouph ns safest, when the experience of the Surgeon who operates is not la g • wRECURRING PULSATION. 223 3in experienced and skilful operator,” says he, “ may accomplish this object with very ittle disturbance of the artery, from its natural situation and connections; yet I cannot a>ut suspect that Surgeons in general may not be so successful, especially in cases where, rom the deep situation of the vessel, the surrounding it with a ligature depends more on | eeling than on sight.” (p. 248.) It does not appear whether Abernethy originally proposed the division of the artery s letween the ligatures, to admit the retraction of its ends, or whether he was aware of | Jalen’s advice (a) on this point, which was to the same effect. “ If the artery be large,” 4 ays Galen, “ and if it can be cicatrized beyond the aneurysm, the whole of it should i >e cut through, and oftentimes that very practice prevents the danger from ha;morrha°-e • | :ir it appears plainly that when a complete transverse division is made, both portions of the i rtery retract on either side, the one above the part and the other below it.” 1425. After the performance of the operation for aneurysm, the limb 15 to be put into such position, that the artery be not stretched ; the | .atient should be kept, in the most perfect bodily and mental quiet, should i e surrounded with well-advised assistants, and treated according as % iflammatory or spasmodic symptoms occur. After the operation of R pening the sac, the dressing is to be renewed every third or fourth day ; hen the ligatures separate, and the wound is filled with granulations’ 3 s edges are to be brought together with sticking plaster. After the i' Iunterian operation, the wound is to be treated as one which is to be ured by quick union. In these modes of treatment, immediately after Iie artery is tied, the pulsation in the aneurysmal sac ceases, the swelling r. radually becomes smaller, and at last completely disappears. The pul° ition, however, shows itself anew, and often very quickly, in consequence I 1 which, the Surgeon may fall into error, if he suppose that it results - ora relaxation of the ligature. The pulsation is rather a proof that the * 18 ™11 applied, and that the blood again passes into the aneu- I smal sac by the collateral branches. It is of uncertain duration, and ii iere is generally no fear of enlargement of the sac, which slowly lessens I must, however, be remembered, after Hunter’s operation, in aneurysm the bend of the arm, upon the back and palm of the hand, and foot at in consequence of the numerous anastomoses the blood can ao-ain dis- “d t ie aneurysmal sac (6). The pulsation which recurs in an aneu- smal sac, after Hunter s operation, depends either on the flowing' of the a ood into that part of the artery between the seat of ligature and the sac ! tW tHf tn° iuterf - branches which open into the sac, or on the re»Urgi’ tion of the blood into the sac from the artery below it (1). ° 8 'edemeier (c) has communicated a case, in which after tvimr tul f , ; ffita „”eSr,he sac bnrst ia the ham' “d I-*- -b. felt in the ■ge size and direct communication of t^wuSS 3"* Cause’ ^the : ligature,) but it very rarely continues” 1 branches with the artery below just stated, for I do not recollect to have^noticed it a> ° ^ tlllnkthls 80 common is a of iCStTS?; wbiCV,ied ?e f™> »>«ry on Sept. 12 , S40 "m in°.tSftisfy myself that it really Listed blithe dOriM*” the operation, but I P sate feebly, but distinctly, for about two months; ° ^ A^ter ^is, it continued srs- ’ ™rrP,,FM“n,“rB'bl'ra'“'-"»p“-, • W,“““ 1 » ,on,R™£-„ 0. «. »— Heitk.,224 AFTER-BLEEDING. creased a little; and under this condition he left the house at the latter end of Deoemben But the most remarkable instance with which I am acquainted was a case of carotid aneurysm as large as a walnut, for which my friend Green tied the right carotid artery in April, 1831. The pulsation did not immediately cease on the application of the ligature, but it did in the course of the following hour; on the following day, how-' ever, it recurred feebly, and continued, though diminishing, till the seventeenth day, but it never ceased. The ligature came away on the thirty-fourth day, and on the forty! seventh the pulsation was again distinct, though feeble. In the course of the following fortnight the sac increased in size, and the pulsation increased correspondent!)’ with it. Green thought the aneurysm was situated at the bifurcation of the carotid, and that the pulsation was kept up by regurgitation from the internal carotid. It was a curious circumstance, in reference to this case, that the jugular vein of the same side, on the day . following the operation, began to pulsate, and continued to do so frequently though not constantly. The patient had also an aneurysm in the other carotid. Perhaps the prwsi paration in the College Museum of an aneurysm of the carotid artery just before its division, and nearly filled with clot except at the upper part, towards which the current-* j of blood has been directed, may correspond with Green’s case.—J. F. S.] 1426. Two circumstances are specially to be dreaded after the operation j for aneurysm, to wit, Bleeding and Mortification of the limb. 1427. Bleeding is the more to be dreaded; the larger the arterial trunk which has been tied, the nearer the ligature lies to a large collateral j branch, or if the tied artery be in a state of chronic inflammation, or . otherwise changed by disease. The bleeding generally occurs between \ the fourth and fifth days, but in many cases later. As soon as it takes j place, the artery must be compressed above and below the bleeding part, . and if the bleeding be not thereby stopped, the wound must be carefully examined, and the artery taken up afresh. After the operation by open- ing of the sac, the bleeding may take place from the upper or lower end of the artery, or from collateral branches opening into the sac. [In Hunter’s first case (a), “ on the ninth day after the operation there was a eon siderable discharge of blood from the part where the ligatures passed out,” (p. 150,j , but it was stopped by pressure with a tourniquet, and did not recur. In his seconc j case, in which the wouud was made to unite by granulation instead of quick union “ on the nineteenth day there was an ha;morrhage from behind the muscle, the swelling of which rendered it nearly as difficult to come at the vessel as if the parts had healet by the first intention; the bleeding was stopped by applying pressure, after having i lost about 10 or 12 ounces. On the twentieth there was a slight bleeding which wa- a readily stopped, yet five hours’afterwards the femoral artery gave way, and he lostabou- one pound of blood before the tourniquet was applied. The artery was laid bare am * tied a little higher up, the patient being very weak and low; in this state he con j tinued till the twenty-third day without bleeding, when it bled again from a smal • vessel. On the twenty-sixth a considerable haemorrhage having taken place, he be i came faint, then delirious, had vomiting with hiccough, and died the same day. | (pp. 159, 60.) No bleeding occurred in Hunter’s other three cases. One of the most interesting and anxious cases of after-bleeding happened under nr £ colleague Green’s care in 1825, in a case of axillary aneurysm, for which he net s the subclavian artery external to the scalene muscles, ou the 2nd of August of that ■ year. Nothing peculiar occurred at the operation. He suffered a good deal nw,| constitutional excitement, which, however, subsided. On the afternoon of the j there was a sudden bleeding in a jet of five or six inches, and he lost very quickl) u it was believed, more than a pint of blood; it ceased, however, by firm pressure wit*J a wadding of tow kept up for 10 or 15 minutes, after which all the dressings were n ,s moved and linen dipped in cold water, and replaced every 10 minutes, was laid ove j the wound. On the following day pulsation in the wouud was observed, but it entirely ceased two days after, and on the 26th the wound was healed, all bat middle. The ligature came away on the 29th, that is, 27 days after the operatioi . Oct. 31. A small sinus still continues open, from which there has been a slight I charge. About midnight, while he slept, a gush of blood occurred from the won which was readily stopped by pressure. It was attended with very great pain W I (a) Trans. Med. and Chir., vol. i. above quoted.RECURRENCE OF ANEURYSM—MORTIFICATION. 225 rm. On the following evening bleeding recurred as he was making water; the blood hich was arterial, rose in a jet five or six inches, and was in as large a stream as the ■ound would permit; it was easily stopped by pressure for an hour and then cold wet is applied. There was no further recurrence of bleedimr. and he recovered fir, +ha jn. i uni, it nudtuauj &iuppuu uy pressure ior an Hour and thei q ag applied. There was no further recurrence of bleeding, and he recovered. On the > 2th of December pulsation was felt in the radial artery. After this time nothing of ijnportance occurred, and he got well. 6 i From this case and from two or three others I have seen, I think it must be inferred tf lat when bleeding occurs at the wound after the application of a ligature, it is advis- • ble ^do as little as possible, unless the bleeding be so great that the patient’s life is in I amediate danger. Even the continuance of pressure after the blood ceases to flow had f -tter be toft al°ne, as I have already mentioned, in the treatment of some wounded •tones. 1 he strictest quietude, and the application of cold evaporating washes, should ; trusted to, and will be oftentimes successful. But the application of a ligature higher II must be always undertaken with great fear of the result, as generally the cause of 1 ant of union at the first placed ligature being a diseased state of the artery, it may be I stly dreaded that the vessel may be similarly affected still higher up, and that the * hWH-enSUtf When the ligature begins t0 I am inclined to $ >nk that if the bleeding be so severe as not to admit delay, I should amputate the nb not that the actual state of the artery would be other than if it were simply tied • ’ lt.tbe,re w°uld be he advantage, if bleeding recurred, of having the opportunity to n ply the actual cautery more efficiently than could be otherwise done; and as this ’ actice is very successful when, after amputation under ordinary circumstances the , fling up of the artery has not happened, and either without or with its extremitv I an an.eurysmal character, repeated after-bleedings occur, so I think the tual cautery might be applied successfully to a diseased artery in aneurysm — j f s lZTXr Wlth thlS SubjeCt ma-v be here mentioned the^ccasiona , t”ough rare I ™Ce of aneurysm, in a sac which had disappeared after tying the artery above it • which'tlte femoral'artery was^ied^by^t^jiraxNG1 ^of a,P°^bte^ aneurysm. 5 h//18251’handthe Pa,tleUt djsmi*sed cured on theSOti Junelo]lSwing^On’the %Oi i trjSfS swelli?g had ^ i deed its return of the size nf , lwl • but tbat slx weeks smee he had nour (on his return) occupied the lowerTlnrcTof 'the^hiffhPafilV°f ^ “,The 1 Pophteal space, aud projecting considerably on each side of th!? r T ^ Wb° 6 ,of !' nstnngs and the exterior muscles situated on the forepart of the thirl!_,the . isist o{ three lobes, and was altogether as big as an ostrich Th& ' i f aPP.eaTed to hie but distinct, the skin covering it nf g ! ostuch egg The pulsation in it was ch pain.” (p. 155.) He would not Inhl!ft “ f C?our’ and he did not complain of putation, which, however was deferred ' haviIlg tbe artery tied, but determined on i»g « scruple of rhSb ZZ “X “„f‘’SS •n tied. Tlarge vessel wh£ l”/?! where the f^oral artery had is, were tied ;”gbut he became famt and ste^dth• fem,oral artery> and eight smaller ht hours after died. On examination “Iw dun“g the dressing of the stump, and r the space of half an inch at the mrt Jh fe“oral artery was found to be obliterated, and immediately below it two sin-ill hr e,^tbe lgature had been applied four years »k of lh.1 vessel Ttae touchese“ cnte''!he I T>; The anastomosing branches <riven i!tf 1 tb<( dlarneter of the femoral d deal enlarged.” (pp 155 5(i \ Th J** ^ b then obhterated portion, were a f * femoral arS, wtfed £!,SST f1«>“ : tumour ceased, and it diminishedlerv Ma,c,l’l8'2J- “The pulsation in ° m*° S° to work, when the swedliiig had enTret zh™ , °nJ,y in June he was ‘ppear again with pulsation, both the swelling d'saPPeared. In September it began Te< Compression of the leg and swelling ‘md pu,fatl0" beinS soon greater than hard compress, in fact a narrow rnIW f ^ T employed, but could not be borne ;.°vf‘he thi^gh, just aWe tK^e anfabove £?“ “ iength'.was aPPb«d on the im pain nhdiin that situa‘*°n night and day ^Th^lavn^106!^^168’ which was >. '.t r,Lri3"o'? £ths ,od, r ■i"n? T>fMi0n * t> «" prino‘Po1 or an QPREFERENCE OF HUNTERIAN OPERATION. 226 artery, depends on the impossibility of properly sustaining the circulation in the limb by the collateral branches, and by the anastomoses of the* capillary-vascular system. Perhaps such unyielding condition of the collateral vessels as does not admit properly the restoration of the circu- lation, is also a principal cause of secondary haemorrhage, inasmuch as the blood is driven with so much more force against the seat of the ligature, and thereby tearing of the artery is easily produced. The circulation is most easily restored in young subjects, and with a certain energy of circu- lation. After tying the principal artery of a limb, if it be even ultimately well nourished, the limb is always more or less numb, insensible, am] has its natural warmth diminished. In proportion as these symptoms art slighter, there is greater hope that the circulation will soon be restored. It is endeavoured to promote the circulation with warm flannel, or warm baga filled with sand or aromatic herbs so applied that the limb is not at all pressed, and renewed as often as they begin to cool. Subsequently wamr applications of spirituous or aromatic fluids are to be used. After some: days usually sensation and warmth recur, the latter often to a high degree* and continues, although the limb be not enveloped in warm bags or over- lays. It is not uncommon that, although subsequently the circulator recur properly, the extreme parts of the limb, to wit, several of the toes* mortify. If, after persisting for several day's in the use of the above- mentioned remedies, and of careful rubbing, the sensation and warmth dr not return, there is the greatest danger of the limb mortifying. It ther ■ swells considerably, becomes bluish, and if the patient do not die in con | sequence, amputation is the only remaining remedy, but it rarely has aJ favourable issue. [Sometimes, although the operation go on favourably, and the ligature-wound heal yet the aneurysmal sac will burst and discharge its contents; this happened in Joh: , Hunter’s third operation (a), four weeks after the operation, “ but it healed up like an;, j other sore, and at the end of three months he was perfectly recovered.” (p. 161.)] 1429. As regards the preference of the old, or of the Hunteria: j operation, it may be assumed generally of the former —frst, that oi I account of the usually deep situation of the artery, and of the nerves am veins connected with it, which parts have changed their natural place. I it is always extremely complicated, difficult, and excites considerabl i injury, especially as the sac is generally in the neighbourhood of a joint >j second, that if the aneury'sm be consequent on an inflammatory, ulcer « ative, or otherwise diseased condition of the artery, the ligature, althoug j applied both above and below the sac, may be placed on some part of th | artery where the walls are not disposed to adhesive inflammation ; that in this operation there is always a considerable quantity of blood lost^l fourth, that on account of the large and deep wound in the neighbourhood 1 of the joint, anchylosis commonly remains, and, fifth, that after-bleediaH is frequent after opening the sac. On the other hand, by this operation &-1 the coagulated blood is removed from the sac, which, after the H^j terian operation, if not absorbed, in rare cases produces inflamrnatior 1 suppuration, and bursting of the sac. 1430. The advantages of Hunter’s mode of operation are in gen^ I much greater than those of the old ; for therein the place for applying p* t ligature may be selected, and probably upon a part of the artery' is best suited for adhesive inflammation; the operation itself is accon^J (a) IIomk’s account, above cited ; in Trans. Med. and Chir., vol. i.227 THIERRY AND AMUSSAT’S METHODS. s oanied with much less difficulty and pain; after-bleeding is more rare; i .lie patient can use his limb as well after as previous to the operation ; t experience speaks in favour of Hunter’s mode of operation. Finally, in nany cases where, on account of the seat of the aneurysm being near the runk, the opening of the sac is not possible, this operation is alone admissible 1431. Important, however, as is the superiority of Hunter’s over the ild operation, so that by many Surgeons it is considered unconditionally s the best mode of operating, yet after what has been already said about he accidents after the operation, the opening of the sac must be conceded f the aneurysm be diffused, and accompanied with much extravasation of •lood, and in aneurysm at the bend of the arm (1), on the back and front f the hand and foot, (par. 1425.) (1) Scarpa, Waether, and others, consider two ligatures in circumscribed aneurysm ; the bend of the arm, as a superfluous proceeding. Compare, on the contrary, the ises given by Wedemeier (a). The opening of the sac has also been considered preferable to Hunter’s operation, in lose cases in which the aneurysmal sac is very large, and its absorption not to be cpected; experience, however, shows that even the largest sacs will gradually Hmipish. 1432. The proposal of torsion of the artery in its continuity by means ■ a Deschamps’ needle (1), Amussat’s (2) division and thrusting back 1’ the internal coats of the artery, {refoulement de la membrane interne, et \oyenne de I’artere,) and Tavignot’s subcutaneous tying of the super- rial arteries, must be here noticed. (1) Thierry (£») and, subsequently, Lieber have proposed torsion or twisting the arte- il tube, instead of tying it, for the cure of aneurysm; and this mode of obliterating i vessel has been practised by them on a living animal. The artery having been ex- sed, a Deschamp’s needle is passed beneath so as to raise it, and then, by means of a 1 a twisting is produced, (without, however, opening the vessel,) proportioning the imber of turns to the size of the artery; the wound is then closed, and having nothing traneous in it, the obliteration is as complete as if it were tied with a ligature. ;rard (c) properly objects to this practice, that if the artery be healthy, there is no •r of the ligature causing bleeding by prematurely cutting through it; but if the artery unhealthy and friable, the twisting will at once cause tearing of its coats, p) The thrusting back of the arterial coats with forceps was the result of experi- ‘nts performed by Caron du Villars, and repeated by Amussat. In Amussat’s division and thrusting back the internal coats {d), the 'ery is laid bare by a pretty large cut, as in the ordinary mode of opera- 'n> and isolated for some lines. The artery is then seized transversely by 3 right hand with a pair of torsion forceps, the branches of which, when ,>sed, touch very exactly, so that the vessel lies directly between its clinches; a second pair of forceps is then applied with the left hand on ij: opposite side, at the distance of some lines, also transversely. The »\ <seJ is so held with the two pairs of forceps, that the forceps can be laid ■ rallel, and not at an acnte angle, and then pretty strongly pressed toge- f >r. By these means the inner and middle coats of the artery are torn, /! only, in the interspace between the two pairs of forceps, remains a ring C listing of all three coats of the artery. The thrusting back of the | emal coats is next effected solely by the forceps farthest from the heart, ‘-ause this, according to Amussat’s experience, is sufficient; and the 0 Above cited. ) Thierry, I)c la Torsion des Artires. Paris, i ute‘,’,-SnhirUr»i K,'Pfertnf-.pl.cc*xxiii. *Tn™ de Medecine, ou Repertoire vnlAi.^S68 Mcdicales—article, ,W- (rf) Petit Apergn critique sur quelques Pro- cedes recemment imagines pour obtenir 1'Oblite- ration des Arteres, sans avoir recours ii la Ligature. Paris, 1831.—MiTSOHERLicH,C.,Ueber Amussat's Metliode fiir die Operation der Pulsaderge- scliwiilste ; in Rust’s Maga/.in. q 2TAVIGNOT’S AND OTHER METHODS. 228 thrusting back of the coats upwards towards the heart is difficult of pc, formance and insufficient. The forceps destined for the thrusting bac are supported sometimes by the point, sometimes by the opposite end, o the fixed forceps, and so acting alternately and like a lever, they thru back the internal coats, first on the one, then on the other side, by whit all tearing of the artery is prevented. When the operation is thus con pleted, the wound is to be closed, and the cure attempted by quick unioi Amussat has published numerous experiments on brutes, and the operatic also on man, with successful result. According to Tavignot’s plan (a), the two ends, laid together, of ad thread are to be passed through the eye of one small and one large curv needle, and the loop allowed to hang loosely. The smaller needle is to carried over the artery, the larger one is to take a directly opposite dirt tion to it, is to pass through the hole made by the former, away under t- artery, and carried out again at the same hole. From the opening . each needle-track the loop of one and the two ends of the other thre hang down ; the one is then pushed through the other ; another colour thin silk thread is passed through each of the loops (so that the loopsm; when needful, be again loosened) ; the two ends are then pulled, by whi the loops are drawn together. The ends are fastened to a horseshoe-li instrument. On examination of arteries which have been subjected to this operation, the foil ing changes are found. At the part where the forceps next the heart was app; the external coat only remained entire; then followed a ring about a line broad, e sisting of all the coats of the artery; beneath this again, the internal coats were divii and thrust back under the cellular coat, to the extent of two or more lines. At this; which externally felt hard, the area of the artery was considerably diminished by thrust back and inverted coats, and subsequently still more so by the ensi swelling and effusion, whereby the complete obliteration was effected. The various remedies which have been proposed for the treatment of aneurysm- which have been made use of, are still to be mentioned in historical review. _ 1. Cutting into and plugging the aneurysm. 2. Suture of arterial wounds, with ane and thread wound round it. Lambert effected obliteration of the artery by this p tice in man, and Amussat in brutes. 3. Application of a ligature with a running I for the purpose of gradually compressing the vessel. (Dubois, Lakrey.) 4. Acup ture ; E. Home (b) thrust a needle into an iliac aneurysm, heated it with the flame , spirit lamp, and allowed it to remain twenty or thirty minutes. The soft and, non standing its previous tying, still pulsatory swelling, gradually became harder, la pulsation, and the needle exhibited hardened clot every time it was drawn out. peau (c) proposes the introduction of a needle into the artery when laid bare, in w it is to remain for at least four days. One needle is sufficient for an artery as large feather ; two or three are necessary for larger arteries. The same result is ettecte means of a thread carried round the artery, and tied on a little pad. Accord*I Phillips (d), the thrusting in of several needles into the aneurysmal sac, or the n I duction of a silver thread; in sixty hours inflammation ensued, after which the d shrunk as in Hunter’s operation. Pravaz has proposed to use galvanism, with ne thrust into the sac, in order to excite more quickly the coagulation of the blood, l d’Etiolles (e) applied the extremities of two compressors, at the distance of some a from each other, for the purpose of coagulating the blood in the interspace bet them- he also applied ice on the part, and used acupuncture and galvanism. 5. terization with moxas (Laurey). G. The introduction of mechanical plugs of wa> so on into the arteries, and the compression of the ends of the artery or ligatures. )• introduction of threads into the artery (Jameson, Worms, Amussat.) «-• modes of compressing the artery between the rounded branches of forceps, and t) below this part, according to Amussat’s experiments on brutes. fa') De la Liirature sous-ctitance des A rtf res; Medical, 13-.0. Feb. 1842. in Examinateur ^b) 1’liil. Trans., 1826. (c) Revue Medicale, Jan. 1831. p. 1ST. cine operatoire. Nouv. Edit., vol. ii-P**' (rf) ^London Mod. (»ax., vol. xxvi. p. (, ) Lancctte Francaise, March, 1835. 134.229 LIGATURE BEYOND THE ANEURYSMAL SAC. Compare, Lisfranc, Des diverses Methodes et des diffe'rens Precedes pour l’Oblitera- n des Arteres dans le Traitement des Ane'vrismes; de leurs avantages et de leurs tfjonve'niens respectifs. Paris, 1834. 1433. In aneurysms in which tying the artery between the swelling and 1-tOO. ill ttllCUlJOUlO HI »» liig tm, ui cuwiiiig ttliu e heart is impossible, Desault (a) and Brasdor have proposed laying re that side of the swelling farthest from the heart and tying it, for the re null Slue Ui UIC Bvvcmug. hcbu .JUL11 uiic ucait aim u, ure irpose of effecting obliteration of the artery up to the nearest collateral i it., .a 4.: „ l irpose Ol eiieuiliig uumciauun wjl liic ai tcij ujj tu me iicaicsi anclies, by the stagnation of the blood in the aneurysmal sac. Des- Iiamps (b) followed out this proposal with unsatisfactory result ; so also stley Cooper (c). From these cases it has been improperly deter- ined to reject this practice unconditionally (d), as it can only answer our pectations if no branches arise from the artery betioeen the seat of liga- ► and the sac, or from the sac itself (e). This opinion is confirmed by c observations of Wardrop (/), Lambert (g), Evans (h), Bushe (i) ott (h), and Montgomery (7), who, in aneurysm of the carotid M tery, have tied the vessel above the swelling, and effected a cure. • Iupuytren supposes that the small branches between the sac and the seat of ligature .y become useful, as they proportionally afford a passage for the blood, and prevent • too great extension and tearing of the sac. Wardrop also considers the objection ome branches between the snr. and the lio-ntnrp nc nr% rmnnccaw mocnn on-n; gicai UAICU31UU auvi icaiixig ui me vv AKJDKUf aiSU COLlSlUerS Tile ODjeCtlOll some branches between the sac and the ligature as no necessary reason against the :ration. The operation of tying the artery beyond the aneurysmal sac, was according to Boyer , iposed nearly sixty years since by Brasdor in his lectures, but never performed by u; it was also recommended by Desault, as feasible where it was not possible to tie i vessel between the heart and the sac, but neither did he perform it. The operation, wever, was at last undertaken by Deschamps, in a man of sixty years old, who had a ■ uoral aneurysm, seventeen inches in circumference, so high up that there was not a ; i ger’s breadth between the sac and Poupart’s lieament. The vessel was tier! J ’ luviivu a xx Vll CUlliivl » _ _ ^ ^ ^ ^ ?er’s breadth between the sac and Poup art’s ligament. The vessel was tied below The in hope that the blood, arrested in its progress through the vessel, would coagulate. tnmnnr hfYU’PVPr Pnnfirm a A 4r\ nnlcotn n-^A 1 „„ n. ,1 G r~ ----- —> *** tuivugu nit; vessel, wouiu coagulate. e tumour, however, continued to pulsate and increased so much after the operation ;t on the fourth day, its bursting being dreaded, Deschamps, compression of the He artery being made as it left the belly, “plunged the bistoury into the upper rttofthe tumour and opened it down to the bottom.”* * * A large quantity of fluid blood ", 'T. nlT. escapfd and he removed a mass of clot and fibrinous concretions larger than fist 1 he sac haying collapsed, a long space was left between the upper angle of the I and the compressing pad. He therefore continued the cut upwards as far as the hand •he assistant who was making pressure, so that he might discover the precise situation jj TTT !he artery! which he could only see occasionally, being constantly flooded ,hn^ d’ aotwlthstandl,1.B the care taken to compress the artery. A long probe Of ,PTui1! the.uPPCr po?'°n of the vessel- wllich "-as raised up as high as possible s seen m flnwqf‘Ck V?Plled’ °D a*f ount of the enormous loss of blood. * * * As blood ttSSwCL^*°* a ligature of wax thread tied with a ate nf « r e sac\.• , J*.e patient lost such a quantity of blood that he fell into PjR"5T«* * * .* pA-%-4SiSeigM iclinu ami „JT ? (P‘ 196r980 B°th operations were performed in a very .n« ligature iududed the aiterj,’ the fEXeS X^SKfS."*^ 0 Otuvres Chirnrgicales, vol. ii. part 4. ,K„e,cu_cl1 PyitKl'que de la S0c. Medic, de >) Kecueil periodique vol. v. p. 188. • / Ht.nosti.v. above cited, p. 301. 'tomv nf u T’ ^Observations on the Surgical m ISM* "T. an<1 Nt'Ck’ Sec°nd Ed9ion‘ ’P altove cited, p.302. 'hutng.feo Tr—-8 A~r^iv’-fr,r mp<Uc- • Vol.xj '.5,e.Pt-tl°t., p. 277.—Lancet, 1820; •• Vol. xi. T> V, ’ t —‘-oncer., ihl'Ii, •ratur vox Ufmo, . ‘ *Ka"/;"1 < er Ausliindischen bp. imTn.T.' t ,VLIUS- Mnrch- April, t^ilrid. M.^TTtT1'191!0" ofArtoric8 after lih iigj V7 'e Lxamn • *0*. xt. p. 801; vol. xii. p. 213. (A) Ibid.vol. xiii. p. 187. (i) Ibid., vol. xiv. p. 149. vol^v Am.?g-an Journal °f the Medical Science, (O Metlic.-Chir. Review, 1830, Jan. In (his case the sac enlarged ten weeks after the opera- tion, formed an abscess, on opening which eight ounces of stinking cliocolate-like fluid escaped reVneTPfn,.1g was en^rged, all the blood clot removed, the sac filled with charpie, and per- mTnnLTf ^neCte,d--°PPENH, IM’N. W., Ueber r.?r otetpmtlung dergrosseren aneurysmatischen GeRiss Stamme an den, vom Herzen entfernten, I heue der Gescliwulst; in Rust’s Maga/.in, vol. *,*XwPj 100.—Mahjolin et liEitAnn, liictionnaire t RSast a* w»230 LIGATURE BEYOND adductor muscle, and in the second, the upper ligature'£S aneurysmal sac, and included the femoral artery and a . nafised bctwm ss »; «he ™di. i .be ■ ^ the femoral artery and the profunda acc below the sac, and the vein applied in the second operupon 1the artery ^ -t is pretty clear that the had been wounded by he’ S^nda and its firm connexion with the aneurysmal sac, higher origin than usual of thyjr /M a fthis horrible operation, the ill success of couhl not however present any real objection to the opera- . tion proposed by Brasdor, if propei yc 0f an external iliac aneurysm - Astlky Cooper tied the femoral artery below the sac ot an ex ^ ^ “ between the origins of the epigastric artery and o p J ; -pbe ligatures - tinned, but the tumour did not incre^.^?^d1o eonsiSwthat it wLcoT- , separated favourably, dhe aneurism 1 . would be possible to tie the ceived in a little time if wenTbto the Gantry to recruit external iliac artery above the tu ■ .mderneath the peritonaeum, and he died - his general health, where the aneuns ^ the celluiar membrane of the pelvii - in consequence of extravasation of b t;eq below the origin of the and scrotum. In this instance, the femo therefore continued to pass through epigastric and circumflex iliac artery; a cur re t,^ ^ atrggt in the aneurism, and did • the sac into these vessels; consequently th ^ Wond was transmitted more readily : not coagulate. After the ligature of the artery, the blood the aneuriJ, i through the internal iliac than through theaiterie. of tbe sac, therefore, namely, the epigastric and circumflex iliac. f t}ie stream which passed appears to have been the consequence o _ , although a current enters it through it, in the same manner as an aneurism contract, alttiougn a 3Q2_. ** after the ligature of the artery, at a distance rom e ^ ^)(Pr!]aps’ hastily, desig- For some time this operation was entire y g P’ , experience proves that it ™ted b. All*. B™ la) >.<; be„g is ruinous in practice, (p. 159.) Waru t. > hoth in the artery and sac, are “ that the changes which such an operation P™d d; by a spontaneous pro-- precisely those which nature employs when she curessnJrionty of tying the cess” (p. 19.) In the course of his reasoning to prove ^ some veiy artery beyond the sac, over tying it between t instance, “ when the artery is odd and, as seems to me, inc<arrect Rations ’ f°^nSa^Cca’nnot be pushed through, tied on the cardiac side, the blood cannot make its P ^ either be absorbed- the capillaries into the veins. 1, must remain m the ^ ^ ^ „ (? n ) or be evacuated by a process of sllch size, that whatever practice Now, unless the disease be of long standing, a hg eolltents of the sac are: be pursued, burst the sac will, it is rare that the bu subsidence- absorbed; ’the greater quantity of the blood the blood of the swelling, after the artery ha i been tied ab^ove P thJe remaining coav does make its way into the veins ™ J°ut “7 J^in- any inconvenience, as wjH gulated part quietly restsi, often.foryearscases, hereafter to be be shown by the dissection of AshaynCooperis and ke occ’rrenee, s0 far a- mentioned. Inflammation and ulceration of the sac of the diminution oi I have had opportunity of observing. _W ard s : P of tbe artery, is <»* the bulk of the aneurysmal tumour, after tying; the ^ ^ ^ & ^ utterly incomprehensible. “The flmd blood, says , circulation, in Pla« the trunk from whence it came, and thus again passesi ... . ■ nt0 the veins: of! as in the other ease, having to passs ^ugb *e blood impelled and, as nature immediately^ finds a new channc , „ a- nvitmtffl _ _ew channel, there is no ™ , intl- auu, no “■—“ ----- ,, 90 \ TTow i< tbe fluid blood can find a reaay e , into the tumour afterwards. (p- 22.) How me nu (hklk t0 the blood, which the trunk from whence it came, is rather puzzling 1 . nronelled by the heart sxiiss&ssissj u - m‘T'’*THE ANEURYSMAL SAC. 231 . : | ff from the aneurismal sac.” (p. 147.) In some of Hunter’s cases the pulsation did intinue; and it is probable that there is always some degree of circulation through { ie aneurysmal swelling, after the ligature has been applied, although not sufficient to mvey an impulse to the walls of the sac, which is only produced when the disease has kisfed so long that the anastomosing vessels have begun to enlarge and bear a share in lie circulation, as they do in spontaneous cure of aneurysm. It is not also “a curious ■rcumstance that the natural or spontaneous process does not affect a cure, on the prin- tfpleof the Hunterian operation, by completely arresting the passage of the blood into the .the;” for, as just noticed, Hunter’s operation proposes nothing of the kind. Nor is ijie “ natural or spontaneous process in strict conformity with the principle of the ■aeration I (Wardrop) am now endeavouring to establish; that is, by the formation ra barrier in the artery beyond or at the distal side of the aneurism.” Nor is it cor- at to state that “ in a case of aneurism Mr. Macicelcan found that nature had nearly mipleted a cure of the disease on this principle for “ the carotid artery was plugged ip, and the large aneurismal swelling was filled with a coagulum, leaving only a com- iratively small channel for the blood to pass into the subclavian artery;” fp. 61) ihich was certainly not a barrier in the artery beyond, or at the distal side of the leurysm. The operation of tying the artery beyond the sac may be permissible in .me instances when its ligature on the hither side cannot be performed, but the prin- ple on which it must be conducted, and the success which may be therefrom expected, .ust be otherwise explained than as Wardrop has set it forth.—j. r. s. With regard to the operation of applying a ligature beyond the aneurysmal sac, awrence (a) observes “the circumstances under which aneurisms are placed, in ■ference to the trunk, and with respect to such an operation are not always alike • in ct, we may distinguish two cases in which the results of this operation may be very .fferent. In the first place, we might reasonably expect to succeed if we could place a .ture upon an artery leading from an aneurismal tumour, under circumstances that mid prevent the current of blood through the aneurism. We should expect here the [me result as when we cut off the supply of blood, by placing a ligature between the Jieunsmal tumour and the heart; but there are very few arteries that are so circum- .weed, perhaps the carotid artery is the only one. If an aneurism be situated at the wer part of the carotid artery, suppose the common carotid artery be then tied we ;1'!ow,7 u.° brauch Is eiven off between the ligature and the aneurism, by means of hich the circulation in the tumour can be carried on; therefore, if it were tied effec- • iere,C0Uld be no current of blood through the tumour, that the coagulation si lght take place necessary for the cure of the aneurism. Mr. Wardrop first tried the .‘^bSnenhvanprf °f ^ “I Jt W?S C01?Pletely successful. The operation was lnv»i,y perforrFed,ln a case of aneurism of the carotid artery, and it appeared again rioH W *RCOmPuete y saccessfu1’ so far 35 the contraction of the tumour was con- I med; but the patient unfortunately died in consequence of htemorrhaee from thp .oper onfiee of the artery where it had been tied, from the remote orifice Tf the tery, a circumstance, however, that does not at all diminish the value of the inference } u ,def wthfr°m the °Peratl0n’ 35 fai: as regards tbe principles upon which it is i terv thp^ ’ come to aneurism on the trunk of the axillary, or femoral [ -P imrl , fi 1S duffe ; lf we tle the vessel beyond the tumour, in either case there j ciwrm t f mranaCheMPVen off 1between the disease and the ligature, by which probably leuSof S I™1 CrinUfy- be kGpt UP throu*b tbe In a case o7f ' the vessel bevmd p^*7' f°r lUStanC®’ we. s.llould hardly be able to tie the trunk ■ofundo 'bp loO d Uff above the ongin of the profunda ; if, therefore the i a”,“riS,mal “V!r°m “? beSS Se divecirculati^n wbi 1 1 ihe art6ry hasbeen tled’we should exPcct from the il. l ' ct at r e kept, UP througb the tumour, that the operation would ■ tuated nenr t! , of the axillary artery, there are a variety of large branches -tween them and the t^our ^et£0Ul<l UOt ?pply a Hgature the®distal side, ■ the blood through ^ b™nch*S w.ould keep UP ‘he circulation mature were annhe ThT G Same,way tbat * would be maintained if no ’inciple; that mwhichTbp tW° c.ases.seam> therefore, to be very different in point of : >ves off U bU^Ie t wcem bp ^ 15 nf.ar the funk, and where the vessel jtnated, that numerous hr-meh\l d ,tbe hgatllre ; and that in which it is so ‘ nd the situation of brdncbes are g'ven off between where we can apply a ligature one of experience • ?ti,1'.a8,1 bave ^ready saffilhe S be application of a’lieatare 2, thJ? bT ^c',' y ,t"ed* we cannot venture to assert that ■ ••—.loiTr; zt ssi'i; isy -* ■*“•* «■** («) Lecturos in Lancet, vol. ii. 1830.Second Section.—OF ANEURYSM IN PARTICULAR. X. of ANEURYSM OF THE CAROTID ARTERY AND ITS BRANCHES. 1434. Aneurysm of the carotid artery is usually situated at its bifur- cation it has, however, been noticed on various parts of its common trunk, near its origin, and on its branches, the ophthalmic, temporal, and others. The diagnosis rests on the general symptoms which characterize aneurysm; with which it is also to be remarked that the aneurysm does not move in swallowing, like pulsating swellings of other kinds, in the neck, ■ which, for the most part, are connected with the thyroid gland. Besides, - it is generally accompanied with violent tearing pain in the entire half of the head, beating in the head, sudden loss of recollection, and, according to the different seat and size of the aneurysm, difficulty in breathing. Bukns (a) has often felt an enlargement of the common carotid, and of the root of the internal carotid, after death and twice during life, forming a swelling as large as a filbert nut, which caused no pain. I have noticed such an expansion m a strong young man, upon the bifurcation of the carotid, which arose after violent exertion; excepUng a violent beating it was unaccompanied with any inconvenience, and did not increase for several ‘vears Syme, J. (6), observed a case of aneurysm of the internal carotid artery, which formed a pulsatory swelling in the throat; and, from its situation, resembled an abscess in the tonsil. Tying the carotid artery did not stop the pulsation, and the patient died. _ 3 1435. Tyino- the carotid artery is the only remedy which can be employed in aneurysm of that vessel, if the seat and size of the swelKjM especially permit. J Acrel (cl has restored the artery in an expansion {Anmrysma verurn) of the trgj| of die carotid artery, by gradual and strong compression as the place permitted, after, four or five months, to its natural stiength. 1436 Numerous observations have proved that, after tying the common trunk of the carotid artery, the brain is sufficiently supplied with blood,; and that no disturbance of its functions ensue. Besides the numerous small anastomoses, the carotids of both sides communicate, and thei verte- bral arteries, by large inosculations in the region of the celbdar smus^ of the cuneiform process of the occipital bone, the falx, and the hah esot the cerebellum, but especially by one peculiar branch from the The vertebral arteries at the same time assume the function of collateral t) ran c 1igs • Tying the carotid artery (previously undertaken by Abernethy (1) and Lykh£ wounds? was first and afterwards frequently performed for aneurysm byAsBg Cooper (d). Macgill(c), in the space of one month, tied both ear -ind the tumours of both eyes. Several months after the operation, the patient was. swellingshad subsided. Musset (/) tied both carotids at an interval of six weeks, account of inosculating arterial swellings, and the case recovered. f uebes- (a) Observations on the Surgical Anatomy of the Head and Neck. p. 163. eau »nn iioi-.a. p. , (b) London and Edinburgh MonUily Journal of Med. Science, Nov. 1842. [ueu. onion™, fel Ohirurgische Vorfalle, vol. t. P- Jo - bn Account of the First Successful Operation performed on the common Carotid Artery for Aneu- rysm, in the year 1808, with thepottj nation ; in Guy’s Hospital Reports, vol. 1. P- Ja(«) New York Medical and Physical .lo«o>*1- " (/) American Journal of Medic. Sciences, cob p. 31C.CAROTID ANEURYSM. 233 □sued would soon have destroyed the patient, if the Surgeon had not immediately ^collected himself and tied the trunk of the artery. “ The operation was successful, and ... mnnv vesirs after it.” ( Jf ie patient lived many years after it” (a). li Abernethy’s operation ([b) was performed about 1798 or 9, on a man whose neck was <5 ored by a cow. The horn “ had passed beneath and torn the internal carotid artery, i'j ud all the branches in front of the external carotid artery. The former vessel was not, owever, entirely rent asunder, so that the general course of the artery, and its cou- rt exion with the cranium remained in the usual state.” (p. 117.) The vessels did not at )5 rst bleed, but soon did, but this was checked by pressure on the common carotid artery, a hich could not, however, be borne, and the patient’s struggles removing the pressure, ;>■ ‘peated bleedings ensued. The wound was therefore enlarged, the artery found and iu ed, but he died thirty hours after the ligature had been applied, (p. 125.) K Fleming (c) successfully.tied the carotid in 1803, for secondary bleeding, in a sailor jsiho had attempted to commit suicide. The wound had healed so rapidly that on the fiventh day the ligature was completely buried in granulation, and required removal i. r a cautious dissection.” (p. 4.) 3 ■ The common carotid artery was first tied by Astley Cooper (d), in November, 1805, »r aneurysm of the right carotid; the ligatures were drawn from the wound on the Seventh day, but the woman died on the nineteenth day, having suffered much from r fficulty in swallowing. He tied it in another case in June, 1808; the upper ligature fme away on the twenty-second, and the lower on the twenty-third day, and this patient covered. The account of the state of the vessels thirteen years afterwards will be and below. ^Travers (e) tied the carotid artery in the following year successfully for a case V aneurysm by anastomosis in the orbit, in a woman of thirty-four years of age. a The carotid artery has since been tied frequently with success; and there ?s one very interesting instance in which Dr. Robertson, of Edinburgh (/), operated in a case $ lere an aneurysm had burst into the oesophagus, and the space was so little, that the v teJ7 was taken UP only half an inch above the bifurcation of the arteria innominata: ligature came away on the seventeenth day, and the patient recovered. I Zeis, of Dresden (</), tied the carotid artery in an infant of fifteen months for a vas- J lar nccvus on the left side of the face. After having exposed the edges of the m. sterno- ■stozdeus, a vein, about the thickness of a quill, was found lying across the bottom of un wound; this he tied and divided. There was not any arterial haemorrhage, but 8rk venous blood oozed out, which was stopped by the application of kreosote water, i opening the sheath, and exposing the internal jugular vein, another large gush of >od ensued, and was stopped by kreosote water. The vein which had been tied swelled much as to excite fear of its bursting, and was therefore tied again higher up; after uch the artery was tied with a silk thread. The tumour immediately became smaller i paler, shrivelled up, and exhibited ,n various spots, a greenish yellow colour, like an tlT“ °f f?m fi7f, da7s standmg. On the fourth day the ligature on the vein and on the following night a considerable venous bleeding took place, which : : “ the Course of the next twenty-four hours, but each time was ested b> the kreosote water. On the evening of the eighth day the ligature came III It S Cfased’and after seventy-two days the wound had healed. Several t]?e °Peration, the tumour had increased with the nutrition of the body and ame very large, when the child cried. About a week before the complete heaW of f b7°-U|nd’!i!e chlldw.as attacked suddenly with convulsions and hemipleqia ofgthe *P ht side; these symptoms continued with increasine- debility ™ 7 J , 0 . ,e 1tie common trunk of the carotid artery may be performed at I ~,h,fere»‘ p|accs- «-«»■* to the different seat of t J , \ Wish.ht. Translation, note, p. t/) Dnblin Journal of Medical SSionce, Etc., vol. #9 Surgical Work.,, vol. ii. xn p.^Sp. ]838. ... *1 / M<taico-C:hinir(.icnl Journal, vol. iii n i Hi ' ,, ln“ air tliu gesammte Medicen, vol. # l iJ6?”0^Chirurgical Transact., vol. i.7 V U,\?"rt '• T- ) Med.-Cliir. Trans., vol. i. p. 222. * 11 i? *^DIY8 un<^ Clarus, ]Jcit. zur prakt. F Iieilkunde. Leipz., vol. ii. p. 245.234 TYING TIIE first, immediately above the collar-bone; second, below the part where the m. omo-hyoideus crosses the carotid ; third, above that point. If the «• seat and extent of the swelling do not permit the ligature below the aneurysm, it must be applied above {par. 1433.) The patient is to he * placed horizontally upon a couch, the head supported by a pillow, and» the diseased side of the neck turned properly towards the light. 1438. In tying the carotid artery immediately above the collar-bone, a cut of two inches and more should be made through the skin and m. platysma myoides, from the top of the breast-bone along the inner edge of the m. sterno-cleido-mastoideus. When the edge of this muscle is laid bare, it must be separated from its cellular connexion with the * m. sterno-hyoideus and sterno-thyroideus, and drawn outwards, whilst the latter two muscles are drawn inwards, with a blunt hook, by an assistant. The m. sterno-cleido-mastoideus is now to be relaxed by inclining the head . : to the affected side. The internal jugular vein appears in the wound, i and must be drawn outwards, with the forefinger of the left hand from the artery, the sheath of which is then to be opened with delicate and careful strokes of the scalpel; or, when the vein has been fixed externally by an assistant, the sheath is to be raised with forceps, and carefully cut into; the artery should be carefully isolated with the handle of the knife, e and the ligature applied round it with Deschamfs’ needle. The operation is always most difficult at this part, on account of the depth of artery beneath the m. sterno-cleido-mastoideus, and because it is entirely covered by thjf jugular vein. . ... j Zang (a) has proposed that an incision, beginning from the top of the cricoid cartilage should be carried outwards between the two portions of the in. sterno-cleido-mastoideus, and terminate at a quarter of an inch from the collar-bone; the skin and m. platysm wi/aides, and the edges of the wound must be kept asunder with the blunt hook, the c* hilar tissue uni fascia of the neck divided, and thus the triangular space formed by the sternal and clavicular insertion of the sterno-mastoid muscle reached. The intera*| cervical fascia is then to be cut through, the thyroid gland drawn inwards, the jugular vein and pneumo-gastric nerve outwards, the artery taken hold of by the forceps, gently raised, and a ligature passed with a proper needle close to the part where the artery covered by the m. omo-liyoideus. . . .. J§| According to Dietrich’s proposal (6), an incision is to be made on the mesial line the windpipe, from the semilunar notch at the top of the breast-bone, to the cnco» cartilagef from two and a half to three inches in length, through the skin, cellular tissue, m. plali/sma myoides, and external cervical fascia, by which the small veins running from above downwards are avoided. The tendinous connexion between the m. scam hi/oideus and sterno-thyroideus is then to be divided, the edges of the wound drawn asuntw with a blunt hook, and the muscles just mentioned pushed from the windpipe, withUK handle of the knife, and carried towards the shoulder. The branches of the mttnw thyroideal vein, as well as the thyroid gland, which appears from the middle to the uppw end of the wound, must be avoided. The finger is to be introduced into the wo® downwards and outwards, after the cellular tissue has been divided with the liana the knife, and the vessel is felt enclosed in its sheath, which is then to be opened, artery a little raised, and the ligature introduced. As upon the left side the carotid artery lies deeper and nearer to the pleuro , jugular vein and pneumo-gastric nerve higher, and the thoracic duct close be » __ sheath of the artery, the performance of the above mode of treatment th "*■ ■( . ii The following method, proposed by Coatf.s (c), is more easy and more . • cut from two to two and a half inches long, is to be carried upwards from the , edge of the breast-bone, upon the inner edge of the sterno-mastoid muscle, ® |he lower end of this incision, a second is to be made parallel to the upper edge collar-bone, to the inner edge of the clavicular part of the sterno-mastoid mu. , , (fc) Above cited, p. (a) Blutige Operationen, vol. i. p. 2,ti. [2, " (c) Medico-Chir. Trans., vol. xi. pt. ii.COMMON CAROTID ARTERY. 235 inch and a half long: the cellular tissue, m.platysma nv/oides, and external cervical scia, is to be divided in the two cuts. A director is then to be carefully thrust under the •rual portion of the sterno-mastoid muscle, which should be cut through three lines om the upper edge of the collar-bone, together with the internal cervical fascia. The ip is turned somewhat upwards, and held back with a blunt hook. The cellular tissue then to be divided, and, if there be much fat, it must be removed partly with the issors, forceps, or bistoury, so that the vessels, with their sheath, behind the collar- ue, and on the outer edge of the m. sterno-hyoideus, may be brought into view. These siuscles are to be inclined with the handle of the knife towards the wind-pipe, and the , jeath, opened with the greatest care, and without any violence, as the delicate walls of r| e thoracic duct, which lies close behind the sheath, are torn with the slightest violence, e isolation and tying of the artery is effected in the way already described. 1439. If the aneurysm be higher up, the tying of the carotid artery must ij 3 effected below the part at ivhicli the m. omo-hyoideus crosses. A cut is to 1 made through the skin and m. platysma-myoides, in an oblique direc- m along the inner edge of the m. sterno-mastoideus, commencing at the 1 p of the cricoid cartilage, and terminating an inch from the sternal end 'the collar-bone. When the edge of the sterno-mastoid muscle is exposed, must be separated carefully from the sterno-hyoid muscle, and drawn ttwards ; the omo-hyoid muscle then appears crossing over the vessels of neck, and the carotid artery, jugular vein, and pneumo-gastric nerve \ ’tclosed in their sheath, with the descending branch of the hypoglossal | :rve upon it. The omo-hyoid muscle is now to be drawn outwards and r»wards, the thyroid gland inwards, and the jugular vein with the fore- (igerofthe left hand outwards, and there kept (1). The sheath is now to opened, immediately where it covers the carotid artery, either with a rector, or, if carefully raised with the forceps, with the scalpel held flat, , what is best, with some careful strokes of the scalpel. The artery ould now be separated from the surrounding parts with the handle of the ife, to an extent sufficient for passing around it the ligature with I eschamps’ needle. 4s the swelling up of the jugular vein often renders the isolation of the artery very ficult, this may be facilitated by applying compression on the vein above, with the gen For the purpose of not injuring the important surrounding parts in isolating i tying the artery, it is to be borne in mind that the jugular vein lies on its outer side? 1 upon it; the pneumo-gastric nerve between the vein and artery, and the sympathetic •ve behind them. As important varieties in the course of the vessels of the neck, in inexion with this operation, it must be remembered that the division of the carotid ery often takes place deep in the bottom of the neck, and that the vertebral artery ses from the aorta, or the subclavian ascends along the side of the carotid, and close und it. If the artery be laid bare, as proposed, to a great extent, two ligatures must applied, and the artery tied at the upper and lower part of the exposed portion (a). (1) Asti.ey Cooper (J>) observed in his first operation for carotid aneurysm, that ?e m.0tl0.r‘of the internal jugular vein produced the only difficulty in the operation, as ter the different states of breathing, it sometimes presented itself to the knife tense l distended, and then as suddenly collapsed.” (p. 3.) This, however, is not always case, as in an instance mentioned by Hodgson where the carotid artery was tied fbr punous aneurysm, the result of wounding the vessel with a penknife, “ the jugular n aaorded no trouble m the operation; it was not even seen.” (p. 332.j And in ' C-r T)rfion> Dr- John Brown, of Meath (c), for wounded carotid by a penknife Jne‘“ , dl“ aPPear, nor was it a source of the slightest inconvenience in the ope- ,on* ^p. o05.) 1 *° ,he il "■»*' tied «s done by 1440. If the carotid be tied above the crossing of the m.omo-hmideus ich is only possible when the aneurysm is seated in the branches of ^5 Hodoson, above cited. Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. 00 Dublin Hospital Reports, vol. i. (d) Cyclopaitl. of Tract. Surgery, vol. i. p. 262,236 TYING TIIE COMMON AND that vessel, or when the aneurysm is deep, and the artery must be tied . ‘ above it,) the cut must be carried either from the top of the cricoid carti- lage two inches upwards, in the direction of the inner edge of the'sterna] J mastoid muscle, or commenced at the upper edge of the thyroid cartilage.^ and, on the contrary, carried down a sufficient length along the j edge of the sterno-mastoid muscle. In this case the operation is to be 2 proceeded with as before, only the omo-hyoid muscle must be drawn ■ downwards. In other cases, when the skin, m. platysma myoides and cellular tissue are divided, the edges of the wound must be held asunder a thin layer of cellular tissue divided; and, in the triangular space formed at the lower end of the wound, by the crossing omo-hyoid muscle, at the ■ upper end of the wound, by the digastric muscle, and externally, by the inner edge of the sterno-mastoid muscle, the artery must be isolated, as ' already mentioned (a). jjl jiff tp- The superior thyroideal vein above the cricoid cartilage, crosses the common carotid artery, and with it the laryngeal and pharyngeal vein, as well as some branches anasto- mosing with the external jugular vein, run together before the carotid, and partially It form some anastomoses. These veins must be avoided, and drawn upwards (1), and the » superior thyroideal artery inwards. [(1) I have on one or two occasions seen these veins wounded in tying the carotid artery; they bled very freely, but were soon stopped by a little pressure. — J. P. S.] 1441. When in one or other way the ligature has been carried round : the carotid artery, it must be fastened sufficiently tight with two single '' knots ; the one end of the ligature cut off near the knot, the other brought out of the wound by the shortest course, and the union of the edges of the wound effected with sticking plaster. Such symptoms may occur after : the operation as have been already generally mentioned. The patient 1 should be kept quiet in bed, with his head somewhat raised, and bent s1 forwards. On the fourth or fifth day the dressing is to be renewed. The ! patient should be treated antiphlogistically, according to the symptoms, / and with suitable antispasmodics, if cramps come on. After tying the : carotid, it is not uncommon that, on account of the great anastomosis, the pulsation in the sac reappears; no further increase, however, is to be! feared ; it gradually becomes weaker, and the sac diminishes. For the history of the ligature of the common trunk of the carotid artery, and the collection of the hitherto known cases, see Dietrich (b). [The following is the account of the dissection of the second case in which Asmr Cooper tied the left common carotid artery in 1808, for aneurysm (c), the patient : having died thirteen years after of apoplexy (cl). “ The disease of which he died sufficiently attested the freedom of the circulation, as well as its force in the cerebral vessels, on the side on which the carotid had been tied. The arteries on the left side of the brain were rather larger than those on the opposite side. The anterior cerebral sj artery was of the same size as its fellow : the middle cerebral larger than that on the right side, which was filled with coagulum and did not admit the injection. The large sire of the latter vessel is accounted for by the increased size of the communicating branch; •;> which receiving its blood from the basilary, had become as large as an ordinary radial artery. The basilary appeared to be of its usual capacity, although it was evi- ■ deutly the channel which supplied the middle cerebral artery. The blood probably found an easier course from the basilary, through the left communicating branch, than * I into the right corresponding vessels, which appeared rather diminished in size. From an inspection of the base of the brain after the vessels had been injected it immediately struck the observer, that the left side of the arterial circle of Willis was much more t developed than the right, and that the left side of the brain received its full share of j arterial blood. The anterior cerebral artery received its supply from its fellow ny means of the transverse branch : these vessels seemed to be of their usual size. ini' feme ip>1 itfik »*n krfth (fj) Dietbioh, above cited, p. 180. (6) Above cited, p. 182. (c) Med.-Chir. Trans., voL i. p. : vol. i. (d) Guy’s Hospital Reports, vol.EXTERNAL CAROTID ARTERIES. 237 I ternal carotid was pervious for about half an inch, and of its ordinary capacity. The i ternal vessels were not so well displayed. Those of the face did not receive the injec- >n. The common carotid trunk was impervious throughout its whole extent, being i duced to a mere cord. The external carotid was injected at its commencement: and : 2 superior thyroideal was filled from the arteries of the opposite side; but beyond this . b arteries were empty and therefore could not be satisfactorily traced. The free com- mication of the branches of the external carotids, in their natural state, affords an ia iple channel of supply, when the circulation in one is cut off. The aneurism must, Sir Astley Cooper suspected, have been situated in the internal carotid artery. ;(. 57.) The preparation of the carotid arteries of this case is in the Museum at St. gt iomas’s.] il442. If an aneurysm be seated in the branches of the carotid, the tying ' the affected artery must, if possible, be performed. This tying may so be required on account of other diseased conditions. We must Jserefore consider tying the external carotid, the lingual, the external 4 axillary, the temporal, the occipital, and the posterior aural. Tying Ae superior thyroideal artery will be mentioned in the treatment of 4 onchocele. | 1443. Tying the external carotid artery is considered as one of the most :{, fficult operations, on account of the vessel being surrounded with arteries, 4 ins, and nerves, and therefore also it is usually recommended to tie •lie common trunk instead of it (a). It has, however, been performed t»ccessfully by Busiie (6), on account of aneurysm by anastomosis; < Mott (c) in removal of the lower, and by Lizars (t/) in that of the L ’per jaw-bone. ^Dietrich (e) has proposed the most convenient mode of operating; s; finger’s breadth from the lower edge of the lower jaw, at a distance 1 half an inch from the inner edge of the sterno-mastoid muscle towards ne larynx, a cut should be made obliquely upwards, and parallel to the Tge of the sterno-mastoid muscle, through the skin, cellular tissue, and m. svoatysma myoides. After the division of a thin layer of cellular tissue, -Le external cervical fascia appears, upon which run some veins, which 1 <e to be raised, and the fascia and the cellular tissue divided with the Ij.ndle of the knife. The internal cervical fascia is then to be cut through liljith slight strokes of the knife, and, whilst the edges of the wound are held * under with blunt hooks, the inner edge of the sterno-mastoid muscle - 'pears on the outer edge of the wound ; at its inner edge the tono-ue- nne is felt; at the upper angle of the wound are seen the submaxillary : id parotid gland; at the under edge, the digastric muscle ; and at the wer angle the omo-hyoid. With the greatest care the fat and cellular 1 sue filling the bottom of the wound must now be divided, keeping wards the upper angle of the wound, for the purpose of best avoiding the • snous branches, to wit, the superior thyroideal, sublingual and facial” and us the artery is exposed, partially covered by the common trunk of the dal veins. Now begins the most difficult part of the operation, to wit isolation of the artery from the surrounding important parts. At the S""gle0nthe,W0Und the artery crosses the lower edge of the digastric irallel f'"if YT’pal trTk of tl,e ^poglossal nerve, which runs om thehvnn iedgei°f themu!c e; 0n tIie in.sidesome twigs pass down )p g ossal nerve, and, at the same time, the superior thyroideal <rU M Lancet, 1827-C8, vol. ii. p. 48’00 MANE°’ ab°V' 1843 eriCan Journal of Medical Sciences, vol. cited, pi. iv. ('!) I.uncet, 1829-30, vol. ii. p. 54. («) Above cited, p. 180.238 TYING TIIE LINGUAL, *■ arterv and vein run down from above to the internal jugular vein. Ihe trunk of the facial veins lies in part upon the artery, and upon the wall of the artery descends a branch of the hypoglossal nerve. On the outside of the artery are the internal carotid artery, and the internal jugular vem, which frequently covers the latter artery ; together with them descend the . pneumo-gastric and sympathetic nerves, which divide into many branches. , Between" and rather behind the two arteries, passes up with, and very near . it the ascending pharyngeal artery, from the external carotid. laryngeal nerve, as well as branches of the hypoglossal nerve, cross it y deeply, passing on the back and inner part inwards and upwards. Thety external carotid artery is best tied either above the giving off of the superior thyroideal, or where it crosses the lower edge of the digastn#^ muscle. This muscle, and the hypoglossal nerve, must therefore be somewhat separated from the cellular sheath, and with the submaxillar, o-land drawn upwards with a hook by one assistant, whilst another draw the internal carotid artery, the internal jugular vein’ a“d Je nem|j outwards. When the operator has now in part pressed the trunk of thjll facial veins lying on the artery, aside and inwards, he opens the sheafli of the artery with the handle of the scalpel, and passes the ligature with ; Desch imps’ needle from without inwards. . , . ! 1444 Bko-ard (a) I,a* proposed lying the Ungual artery .n bleed™, after^eep extirpation V the’ toLgue and the like. Ty.ng t. on is sufficient, as the bleeding from the other side of *e ton^« stanched by cauterization. The patient bes with his head ; back and with his face turned towards the sound side ; the operator thtvrf roughly satisfies himself of the position of the.tongue^ ! the whole operation, must guide him, and makes a cu {j inch and a quarter long, which he commences a \ the tongue-bone, and carries upwards and forwards, half an body of that bone. The skin and ». platysma myoides ^ thus n ^ r avoiding the facial vein, which is to be turned backwards II e cei^™ sheath of the submaxillary gland is then to be opened, anc id^u«c]es, as * without injuring it upon which the digastric and : well as the hypoglossal nerve, appear. If these aitterem “ ..Jj near tL tongue-bone, as happens with must be gently raised, so as to expose the outer side of t muscle, some fibres of which are to be seize . ' which the artery b 1 director introduced under them and then divided, upon which exposed, and easily isolated. ]Y w;th the Dietrich (b) makes the cut as in tying the external carotid artery, J ^ difference, that he begins three lines from the ander edge of the 1 } J an( it two inches downwards, through the skin, Lr!7i divided, thi external cervical fascia. 1 he vein being avoided, and the secon y . m edges of the wound are to be kept asunder with hooks, when JX^ound The cellule lower edge of the digastric muscle appear at the upper angle of the ■ u[- . tissue, connecting the gland with the -rvear which exposes the stylo-hyoideal muscle. Both muscles and t ie yj b divide^ to be drawn downwards or upwards, and the two layers of ceUnlar ti^ue oe. fe with die handle of the knife, the artery now appears dose * «h external carotid artery, from which it is given off stiff fhrth« (o) Manec, above cited, pi. iii. Averii.e, above cited, p. 53. „ , .. w on- ' -Bki.i., Ciiabi.es, Operative Surgery, vol. n. p. 50- ’ (ft) A'hjvc cited, p. 3 -•239 FACIAL, TEMPORAL, AND OCCIPITAL ARTERIES. i tery tied from below upwards, immediately above the great horn of the tongue-bone, j the artery is to be tied still more distant from its origin, it is not necessary to cut into i e fleshy fibres of the hypoglossal muscle. The artery otherwise runs through suffi- I ?nt extent before it passes under any muscle. 1445. The external maxillary or facial artery is tied at the angle of J e lower jaw in the following manner. A cut is to be made on the inner i Ige of the masseter muscle, running obliquely downwards and outwards, the extent of an inch or a little more through the skin, cellular tissue, < id fibres of the m. platysma myoides. In this direction the cellular tissue i id some threads of the facial nerve are cut through; and the edges of < e wound being separated, the artery appears on the inner edge of the i asseter muscle, lying on the periostceum ; and close to it, on the outer side, 1 the facial vein; these are drawn outwards, and the artery isolated with se. : This artery can be tied in its submaxillary part only with the greatest difficulty, i inec (a) declares himself against this operation, because the artery lies very deeply, i: d is covered by very many parts. Velpeau and Dietrich have given the modes of iceeding in this operation. By the former, an incision is made from the submaxillary i ind to the inner edge of the sterno-mastoid muscle, and then a second from the hinder l of the great hom of the tongue-bone to the inner edge of the masseter muscle, ough the skin and m. platysma myoides, and the Tap so formed should be turned back j wards. The edges of the wound are to be kept asunder, the flap held up, and the now 0 played aponeurosis, from which the ai-tery is only separated by cellular tissue, must be 1 through, in doing which the facial vein is sometimes divided, between the sub- " brillary gland and digastric muscle; after this the artery is to be isolated and tied ween the great horn of the tongue-bone and the submaxillary gland. According to 5 etrich, the cut should be made two lines from the under edge of the jaw, directly i wn, rather obliquely outwards and downwards, to the inner edge of the sterno-mastoid scle. The facial vein is never to be cut through, but separated from the submaxillary t nd, and carried outwards or inwards, as may be most convenient. The hypoglossal I 've is to.be taken care of. The artery passes under the stylo-hyoid muscle, at the point ; ere it is perforated by the digastric muscle, about half an inch from its insertion in the ! gue-bone. The muscles together with the nerves, are to be separated from the cellular A ue, and carried downwards, and the ligature passed around the vessel from without ; uards, and from below upwards. 1446. Aneurysms of the temporal artery, occurring after wounds, may ns often cured by compression, as I have seen in one instance, when aneu- X>;m occurred after arteriotomy; if this be not possible, the temporal cr ery must be tied. The position of the artery is to be first well ascer- f bed by feeling with the finger, and then along its course a cut an inch in •( igth is to be made through the skin, midway between the joint of the j»v and the auditory passage; a director is then to be introduced beneath ! pretty thick cellular tissue by which the artery is covered, and this rung divided, the artery is to be isolated. The accompanying vein lies odhe outer side. .* 447. Aneurysms of the occipital artery rarely occur, though Meyer (b) ■ ntions a case in which, on account of aneurysm, many branches and l > trunk of the occipital artery were tied. J. Burns (c) also tied this W«el for an aneurysmal swelling. A cut is to be made half an inch f . ’ and a Ilttle beneath, the tip of the mastoid process, and continued v iquely upwards and backwards, to the extent of an inch or an inch and j 1'1.ar., • T,,e skin and aponeurosis of the sterno-mastoid muscle are to lit c’ f'u l!ie finRer carried under the upper lip of the wound, in to teel the base of the mastoid process. The m. splenius is then to ) Dissert de . . . . .. , (0 In *1,s brothers Surgical Anatomy of flit* " ’ „ "t,?nm.occ,Pllalls Ilead anA Neck, p. 374,-Manec, above cited, y - arionfc ocr ■ SCARPA, Translation, p. iy*J, note. pi. v.—Dietrich, above cited, p. l’u9.240 TYING TIIE POSTERIOR AURAL. be divided the whole length of the wound, and the pulsation of the artm-^l being felt, should be carefully isolated, so as not to injure the accompan^S ing veins. 1448. To tie the posterior aural artery, a cut half an inch ]oni» si should be made, from the lobe of the ear to the inner edge of the sternal mastoid muscle, and continued upwards along its inner edge an inch ja upwards; this cut divides the skin, fatty cellular tissue, and the muscuuD aponeurosis. An assistant with a blunt hook separates the edges of the wound, and then is seen, at the lower angle of the wound, a portion of the i parotid gland ; but in the upper angle, the lower edge of the lower retractor of the auricle ; in the middle of the wound the artery is to be M i sought for, isolated, and tied (a). Syme (b) tied a branch of the posterior aural on account of aneurysm. 11 [ Astley Cooper (c) had a case of “ aneurism of the posterior aural artery from a blow 4 f he opened the sac, and was compelled to tie, not only the vessel which led into the smlmU but numerous others entering in all parts of the circumference of the swelling." (p. 82)^ Rf.otn (fit elves the account of an aneurysm of fbe middle ’ • * Begin (d) gives the account of an aneurysm of the middle meningeal artery *® which the bone having been absorbed, the tumour became superficial, and, being mis-7 1 taken for an encysted tumour, was extirpated. An ineffectual attempt was made to stop'i > the bleeding by plugging; but the patient could not be saved. The branches of the internal carotid artery within the skull sometimes become^} aneurysmal. A remarkable instance of this kind occurred to Dr. (afterwards Sir' Gilbert Blank) (e), in a female of sixty-four years old, who “ was suddenly seized with ‘ : a fit of giddiness and dimness of sight, succeeded by acute pain in the forehead, which remained for some time. The indistinctness of vision continued for six mouths; after 1 this, she was at intervals seized with giddiness, headache, and imperfect vision. She had , . a similar attack two years after the first, from which also she recovered to a certain > degree. From this period she continued subject, from time to time, to the aliove-men-r R oo 1 r\n rr o o cbn 4V. .. J. «w » .1 tioned symptoms as long as she lived. She for some time saw objects double, but the1 particular period of this could not be ascertained.” (pp. 193, 94.) She afterwards betrayed# : signs of mental derangement, and became maniacal, and died in that state five year* after her first attack. On examination there was found more water than usual in the: : ventricles of the brain; upon the falx, some spicula of bone ; and the optic nerves wen a smaller than usual, as if they had been wasted.” The morbid appearance in this case.a ? which was so singular, and to which the symptoms of complaint seemed chiefly referable t : was to bulbs about five-eighths of an inch in diameter, filling up the hollow ou each side u ; of the sella tursica, which were evidently dilatations of the carotid arteries, and, from their being filled with laminae of coagulated blood, there could be no doubt of their bein' aneurisms of these arteries. The one on the left side was the largest; that on the righ communicated with the cavity of the artery, which was not the case with the other.’ Blane observes :—“ It is probable that one of the aneurisms arose five years before he 6 death, occasioning the first attack described, and that the other arose two years after;' wards, occasioning the other attack. It is also probable that it was between these ton « attacks that she saw objects double, from the unequal compression on the optic nerves. (pp. 196, 97.) Hodgson mentions an instance of a small aneurysm in the anterio cerebral artery, filled with a solid coagulum, and another in the basilar artery was see-' by Serres.] II.—OF ANEURYSMS OF THE SUBCLAVIAN AND AXILLARY ARTERIB 1449. Aneurysm of the axillary artery in general increases quickly, a the surrounding parts offer little opposition. The swelling raises the grea pectoral muscle, spreads towards the collar-bone, and thrusts it upward: It is, therefore, rarely that this aneurysm is so early observed, that ther (a) Dietrich, above cited, p. 211. (//) Edinburgh Med. and Surg. Journ., vol. xxxi. p. 66. 1329. (r) Surgical Lectures. (d) Dictionnairc de Medecine et do CJiirufS pratiques, vol. ii. p. 533—article, AnArymf t (c) History of some cases of Disease in the BfW* in 'Prans. of a Society for the Improvement Med. and Chir. Knowledge, vol. ii. b'vo.TYING THE AXILLARY ARTERY. 241 still space sufficient (a) for tying the axillary artery, and this operation is ually possible only in aneurysms at the upper part of the brachial artery. 1450. Tying the axillary artery may be performed in two situations, raely, first, by cutting through the great pectoral muscle, under the •liar-bone; and second, by division of the tendinous interspace between e pectoral and deltoid muscles. The patient either lies on a bed or sits a sloping chair, with the shoulders somewhat depressed ; an assistant .nds behind, and is ready to compress the subclavian artery, if bleeding auld occur during the operation. 1451. In the first mode of operating, a cut must be made through the n, commencing an inch from the sternal end of the collar-bone, and ntinued along its under edge towards the coracoid process of the blade- ne, as far as the cleft which separates the pectoral and deltoid muscles, this direction the connexions of the great pectoral muscle with the jar-bone are divided, and thus the lesser pectoral muscle is exposed, ich, beginning from the coracoid process, crosses the lower angle the cut. The point of the finger is then to be introduced between ■ coracoid process and the lower edge of the collar-bone, and the artery here found surrounded, upon the outer side, and partially covered by : brachial plexus, and upon the inner side by the brachial vein. The ery is now to be carefully separated from the vein and nerves, and a gle ligatui e carried round it with Deschamps’ needle, before with- ering which, the artery should be compressed upon it, for the purpose of •ertaining that it alone is taken hold of. The small arteries wounded ing the operation are to be tied at once, and the wound kept clear of od. The dressing and after-treatment are to be conducted according ;he former general rules. ® he direction of the wound in this mode of operation is variously advised. The most °„rnwiatlT ar®~tl?at ^commended by Lisfranc, in which the cut is commenced an inch from the sternal end of the collar-bone, in the pit formed by the clavicular and al parts of the great pectoral muscle, and carried three inches below the collar-bone • le practice recommended by Zano and others, who carry the cut close beneath the' (k 8111 Hlng 'tS ™iddle’ and continue it for two and a half inches down- ds and outwards, nearly to the coracoid process. ' 452. In the second mode of treatment, if the artery be not tied so near collar-bone a cut is made of two and a half inches length, from the er edge of the outer third of the collar-bone, towards the inside of the t'cL armmnn ihe intersPac? between the great pectoral and deltoid X J le le?f Pect°ral muscIe is cut off at its insertion to the , Tle' ,The forefinger is now to be carried deeply into the luV d, paf,ed aP°.n the surface of the m. serratus magnus, till its tip Trltr£? ^ finger is n°W Curved’ and> following the outeMin subscaP?lai\ muscle, is again carried forwards, up to ,Pt roundP 2 , W0U? m 6 pkm- Ll tWs Wa^ is the whole armpit v underthe Ilia6 T °f VGSSels and nerves> collected immedi- l fer the collar-bone, are without difficulty brought to the external ^ between the edges of the wound, and fixed with the Lier Here artery ,s easily isolated and tied (5). g 6 # ed^anyothe0/ Way*^o^meTwith 617 1? r Uher m°de ab°Ve recommended, or T ion of the vein so mu^in from of it favour among practical Surgeons; the tront ot xt> and lts almost complete envelopment by the a’inique^L^tae, vokW p Chambehlaine, Medico-Cl.ir. Trans., vol. vi. p. 'OL n (i) DELPEOH.Chixurirle ClininnB A 1 Jelpeoh, Chirurgie Clinique de Montpellier, vol. It242 TYING TIIE axillary nerves, together with its great depth, render it a very hazardous and difficu operation. As to dragging up the whole mass of vessels and nerves to the surface, an then selecting the artery to be tied, as recommended by Delpech, no person who ha»] had any experience in tying arteries, would think of doing, on account of the necessar i detachment of the vessel from its connexions, which would put it into a very unfavoir j able condition for the effusion of adhesive matter on its exterior, and interfere with i i healing up. And indeed, though this might be done on a vessel undiseased, yet if an j aneurysmal swelling existed, there would not be room to attempt it. Nor is there an I good reason to perform so troublesome and dangerous an operation, when tying ti j subclavian above the collar-bone will answer all the purposes required, with greatra] ease and safety. If the artery were wounded and its ends exposed, as in Halj/s cas i related by J. 13ell (a), and Maunoir’s case, mentioned by Scarpa (6), then ying th i ends of the wounded vessel would, as under ordinary circumstances, be required. Bi , for aneurysm of this vessel, tying the subclaviau is always preferable.—J. F. S.] 1453. If an aneurysm situated upon the commencement of the axillaris artery, or at a deep part of its commencement, so extend, that it reach tl j collar-bone, the subclavian artery must be tied above the collar-bon. ■ The patient being seated on a chair, or laid horizontally upon a table, aim the shoulder of the ailing side depressed as much as possible, a cut Is mat ', through the skin, extending from the outer edge of the sterno-masto:: i muscle, along the collar-bone, to the clavicular insertion of the m. trap zius. Then the rn. platysma myoides is to be divided carefully in tl , same direction, so that the external jugular vein may not be wounde • which, when laid bare, is to be drawn towards the shoulder with a blui :j hook. The cellular tissue in the midst of the wound is next divide^ with the knife, or more safely with the finger, or a director, till the ed< of the m. scalenus anticus be reached with the finger, where the artery found lying on the first rib, and the ligature is to be carried round it wit' Deschamps’ or Desault’s needle. The cut for tying the subclavian artery, should, according to Zang, 1 u made in the middle of the triangle, formed by the hind belly of tl si m. omo-hyoideus, and the hind edge of the clavicular part of the m. stem- cleido-mastoideus, and should be commenced two inches above the colla; bone, at the hind edge of the latter muscle, and carried somewhat oblique outwards and downwards to the middle of the collar-bone. I have found this operation easiest on the dead subject; the subclavian vein lies on t inside of the artery, the nervous plexus on the outside, and partially covering it , little stud on the first rib, which is felt at the inner side of the artery, and the belli made by the artery in that rib, are given as the certain marks for directing the upon the artery. Taking up this artery is often extraordinarily difficult, and ev ^ impossible (n), if, from the size of the swelling, the. collar-bone be very much thntj up ; the operation should therefore always be performed early. The same also happe . J in tying the ligature for which Liston (d) has proposed a peculiar contrivance. Ast artery is partially covered with the plexus of nerves, one of the nerves may be taken • J and tied instead of the artery, as pulsation is propagated to it (e). In one case where the ordinary mode of treatment was inapplicable, Dcpcttrkn l-JJ cut through the in. scalenus anticus. IIougson, Lisfranc, and Guaefe, have propos : the same in their modes of practice, that, after a long cut has been made through AI skin and the in. platusma myoides, from the hind edge of the sterno-mastoid muscle, m . ljl two to two and a half inches along the collar-bone, the operator should dip deeply, a seek for the in. scalenus anticus, pass beneath it a curved director, raise it up. and CT» *1 through either from without inwards, or carefully across, without previously introduci a director. (а) A Discourse on the Nature and Cure of Wounds. Third Edit., Edinburgh, 1812, p. 59. (б) Wishabi s Translation, above cited, p -112. (c) Cooper, A , London Medical Review, vol. ii. p. 300. (/) Lecons Orales, vol. iv. p. 530. (ti) Edinburgh Medic, and Surg. Journal. 1 xvi. p. 348.—Lanoknbkck, in his Noer ** thek fiir Chirurgio und Ophthalmologic, **• "1 p. 269, pi. i. f. 2, pi. ii. f. i. (<■) Mankc, above cited, pi. iv.SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY. 243 [The operation of tying the subclavian artery above the collar-bone -was first attempted a • Astley Cooper in the spring of 1809, but “ the aneurysm was very large, and the lvicle was thrust upwards by the tumour, so as to make it impossible to pass a ligature 3 ider the artery, without incurring the risk of including some of the nerves of the j illary plexus. The attempt was therefore abandoned” (a). The operation was first ^ rformed in St. Bartholomew’s Hospital, Nov. 2, 1809, by Ramsden (6), for axillary d eurysm about half the size of a large orange. He first made a transverse cut through n e skin upon the collar-bone, two and a half inches long, from the outer border of the trapezius, to within half an inch of the outer edge of the in. sterno-mastoideus ; and ?n pinching up the skin above the bone, he divided it, front within, outwards and up- rds, in the line of the outer edge of the sterno-mastoid muscle lo the extent of two •hes. His object in pinching up the skin for the second cut “ was to expose at once superficial veins, and by dissecting them carefully from the cellular membrane, to ce them out of the way without wounding them.” (p. 282.) He then dissected with knife till he had brought into sight “ the anterior scalenus muscle immediately ow the angle which is formed by the traversing belly of the m. omo-hyoideus, and the ;e of the m. sterno-cleido-mcistoideus; and having placed his finger on the artery, at point where it presents itself between the scaleni, he found no difficulty in tracing it bout touching any of the nerves, to the lower edge of the upper rib, at which part he iched it with his finger-nail for the purpose of applying the ligature.” (p. 283.) rious kinds of instruments, fixed in handles, were essayed in vain to pass the ligature, I, ,was at last managed with a flexible probe, the end of which being introduced j d .e artery, was drawn out with the forceps, and the operation completed with a de ligature. The patient died after five days. The subclavian artery was next tied pair vv iLLiA.il Blizard, in 1811, in the London Hospital, but the patient died on the th day, by Thomas Blizard, in 1815, but death followed on the eighth day (c); le same year, by Dr. Colles, of Dublin, but the man died on the eighth day (d); nrst successful case was that of Dr. Post, of New York, who operated on Sept. 8, ; tbe aneurysmal tumour burst on the ninth day, and discharged above three ounces Hood; the ligature came away on the eighteenth day (e). The second successful case lasTON s, m which the operation was performed on April 3, 1820; the ligature ie away on the twelfth day (/). Since this time favourable results have frequently iwed ligature of the artery at this part, by English Surgeons, Gibbs of St. Peters- R„,xI'LE‘NV”f Lynn’ Wishart of Edinburgh, Green at St. Thomas’s, twice, Key ijransby Cooper, each at Guy’s Hospital, and Hobart of Cork. -men, inks operations, made a similar cut above the collar-bone, with its concavity ards, and the inner end higher than the outer; and, in the case referred to at paqe ' above Z JngU ar Vem waD he put two ligatures upon it, about an atove the collar-bone, and divided between them, which gave much additional . avoid the difficulty often experienced in passing the ligature round the artery, ■h AffiUSng 16 common aneurysmal needle, either with or without a handle, and S' rli , 7 apKear* t0 anse from the t0° great length of the curve of the needle button*hooT^d thT:i-\f",hich’ iD Size and ^P6’ Dearly resembled an ordi- i n ^ h thl® the ligature was readily passed round the vessel. 1 L nIag ? XT a/tery care should be taken that the ligature be not passed round one of the artery: this mistake occurred to both Liston and Green! I and excefie^ S°Z “ iT* ' An occurrence like this happening to such t the li^atVirc l SST rthe necessity of extreme caution before tight- rv as itcrn«wi th recoHect also having seen, on one occasion, the posterior scapular ■iforhril PaCe bfT;eT the sterno-mastoid and trapezial muscles, being mis- ,uickly a-""**5 454 If the aneurysm be situated in the subclavian artery itself tvina ; arer the tra°healside of the in. scalenus may, perhaps, give hope of 1 gerous and fr ?n h,owever’ always considered as extremely es the nrJ /aid°US’ lf,Jt b,e remembered with what important struc- iore it the kwer °enne^e?' The Pneum°-gastric and phrenic nerves lie I ’ the l0wer cervical ganglion and sympathetic nerves behind it; ) Cractionl 'o^^fon^on^he .1 Hoboson, above cited, p. 59G. l? wl>ich are added four Casesnf On'.'' <'.rocc'e’ W Kdin. Med. and Surg. Jomn.,vol. xi. p. ]. London, 1811 8vo °perat,0n for ' © Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. ix. p. 185. P (/; Ldinb. Med. nnd Surg.Journ.,vol. xvi. p. 3-18. k 2TYING THE SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY. 244 oil the right side, the recurrent laryngeal runs round it, and upon the left , lies between it and the gullet; the subclavian vein lies immediate!} 5 beneath the collar-bone before the artery, and when distended, even upot- | it; and it rests immediately upon the pleura, which, in carrying rounc . the needle, may be easily wounded. If the ligature be applied in the j neighbourhood of the origin of the inferior thyroideal, internal mammary and vertebral artery, the formation of a plug is prevented, and secondary bleeding ensues (a). It is also to be further remembered, that aneurysn of the aorta, or of the arteria innominata, frequently rises so much atom the collar-bone (1), that it may be easily mistaken for subclavian aneu rysm (/>). A. Cooper, Colles, Arendt, Mott, and Hayden, hav performed this operation, but not successfully in any case. The proceeding in this operation is as follows :—A cut three inches ii length is to be made through the skin, and m. platysma myoides, imme- diately above the sternal end of the collar-bone ; a director should be passer* under the clavicular origin of the sterno-mastoid muscle, which is to b divided from the bone, or according to Hodgson and Arendt, th sternal origin also. The cellular tissue is then to be divided with th finger, or witli the handle of a knife, till the tracheal edge of the m.sca lenus anticus is reached, behind which the artery is felt passing. It \vi be advisable to draw the artery forth, so that the ligature may be applie beneath the origin of the inferior thyroideal and vertebral arteries. \\ he the artery is surrounded by the aneurysmal needle, very great care mus be taken not to wound the pleura, nor to include any other structure. Dietrich (c) has proposed a modification of King’s operation for the right and le side. Upon the right side a cut is to be made from the middle of the semi-lunar note in the top of the breast-bone upwards, directly in the middle line of the windpipe. I:, then penetrates, in the same way as he proceeds in tying the arteria innominata, in ; the interspace between the two sterno-hyoideal muscles, till he comes to the bifurcatic ; of the subclavian artery. The sterno-hyoideal and sterno-thyroideal arteries are now < he drawn outwards with a blunt hook, and the sheath of the artery carefully slit up. ti the pneumo-gastric nerve and internal jugular vein be seen descending immediate^ before the artery. Upon the left side, a cut is to be made on the inner edge offf j sterno-mastoid muscle, a line from it, nearer the windpipe, which shall extend lor tv and a half inches up, along its inner edge, but so, that it is always a line’s breadth difta from it. A transverse cut of half an inch, is then to divide the skin and sterno-masto- muscle. The cellular tissue in the wound is to be carefully divided, any irregub vein, if cut through, to be tied, and the divided sternal portion of the sterno-masto* muscle drawn towards the left shoulder, with a blunt hook, by an assistant. The out* edge of the sterno-thyroid muscle now appearing, the cellular tissue connecting tt underlying parts is now to he somewhat loosened, and drawn by an assistant towar the right side. The carotid artery then appears in the wound, the internal jugular v*'j in its outer side, and the pneumo-gastric nerve between them. In the lower part of tf ■ wound, opposite the base of the breast-bone, behind, and to the outer side of the carott | lies the subclavian artery. The internal jugular vein is now to be carefully wparaE from the pneumo-gastric nerve and carotid artery, and drawn back with a blu J hook towards the shoulder by an assistant, who also draws the sternal portion of tel muscle in the same direction. The subclavian artery, enclosed in its thick cailolH sheath, now becomes visible; its branches, the inferior thyroideal, transverse cyrwsj vertebral, and internal mammary, are given off somewhat above. The thoracic I ■which here forms its curvature, lies on the inner edge of the sheath of the arWtJj■ ■ also behind the carotid. The artery is now to be somewhat isolated with the hMWj®*] the scalpel, the sheath opened on the outside with a careful stroke of the knife b) w 1 injury of the thoracic duct is best avoided, and then with a curved blunt hoo J ligature should be carried rouud the artery from hehiud forwards, and from a < downwards. (a) HonosoN, above cited, p. 381. (6) Burns, A., above cited, p. 30. (c) Above cited, p.TYING THE ARTERIA INNOMINATA. 245 { [ (1) In reference to this most important point it may be mentioned, that there are ,5' i the Museum at St. Thomas’s Hospital two preparations. The one, an aneurysm of ic arch of the aorta, involving part of the arteria innominata, and mistaken for carotid neurism ; a parallel instance to Allan Burns’s case. The other, an aneurysm from le curvature between the origins of the left carotid and subclavian arteries, which bmmunicated by a narrow canal with a large bag in the neck, and having the carotid •tery behind it. The latter was the case to which Astley Cooper referred, when ad- lising Burns to be cautious in undertaking a proposed operation for a pulsating tumour iifwve the clavicle, which was at first thought to be a subclavian aneurysm. In the “piseum at Fort Pitt, Chatham, there is a preparation of an aneurysm as large as a walnut ■‘tween the origins of the arteria innominata and left carotid. And also another bounded r the brachio-cephalic trunks in front, the sac of which is deeply indented bv the ierta innominata.—J. F. S.] J 1455. Allan Burns (a) and Hodgson (1) proposed tying the arteria nominata, and showed, by injecting the dead body, that the circulation in be supported after the obliteration, and that on the subject, the operation n be performed without great difficulty, if the head be bent back, the ernal portion of the sterno-mastoid, sterno-thyroid and hyoid muscles be parated, and the artery followed to its origin. Mott (h), Graefe (c) rendt'(d), Hall (e), Bujalsky, Bland, and Lizars (/') have per- ffined this operation on the living subject, but not successfully. In Mott s case, the patient died on the twenty-sixth day, in Graefe’s i the sixty-seventh, and in Arendt’s, on the eighth day; in the two rmer .cases from repeated bleeding, and in the third, in consequence of here inflammation of the aneurysmal sac, of the pleura, and lun°- OTT begmnnig from the aneurysmal swelling, made a cut above the ’ ar-bone, lengthened it to that bone, and continued it on the windpipe ;ove the upper end of the breast-bone. From thence he made a second it of about the same length, and earned it along the inner edre 0f the *no-mastoid muscle. He then separated the skin from the Zfllsntl yoides beneath it, cut through the latter, and carefully separated The .rnal part of the sterno-mastoid muscle in the direction of the former ie internal jugular vein, which had adhered to the swelling- was w separated, the sterno-hyoid, and sterno-thyroid muscles cut through d turned back over the air-tube. The carotid now laid bare for some d the°foi ^t‘bone’ was separated from the pneumo-gastr c nerve d the internal jugular vein, which were drawn to the outer side S ndleT,ttr,5U,WaV,ia" ar‘,e,r)-’ " particularly u^fl £e ! ndk* of the scalpel, and a small narrow knife, with a rounded cutting W tt Ser*° thfe di!ision »f‘k« arteria innominata, ‘*>e recurrent out half an inch above its Si'hhn * thr<!ad ar°U”d ,he aitoT> I °r the..inner edSe of ‘he sterno-mastoid ■" rt portion of the breast bonT" tW° mCheS downwards upon the I blunt hooks, !» , ! ’ ‘5en !iI» of the wound ■ mal part of , I' P Ses wre-finger of Ins left hand, between the ««he% of*es£;r„:id and ;?ern°rhy°id »ot zc ' ■>».-..!.« !.« 8’ SePara“ng ‘he °elh"ar ‘issue op to the 5, vo'd|C'.,anJ1 SurK- Register of New York d„-d.r-Y®rmi?cllte Abhandlungen a us dem Gehieio »V0N Wal! "al above cited, and vol. iv. pt. iv. p. ,1- lYr-il — AbhancU>mgen aus dem Gebiete Aerne m St°®se“lsc,laft praktischen f i ,St Petersburg. Samml. iv. 1830, p. 188. Sur‘' *-** ■“ (f) Lancet, 1836-7, vol. ii. p. 445, p, 602.DIFFERENT MODES OF TYING 246 carotid artery. The patient’s head is to be then bent much backwards by an assistant, and the operator carries his finger down along the carotid. Having reached the inner surface of the top of the breast-bone, he finds a blue swelling, under which his finger must be introduced. With the aid of his finger, and the handle of the scalpel, he proceeds down to the plac< where the arteria innominatci divides into the carotid and subclavian arteries. Then continues for half an inch farther down, takes the hook., armed with a thread, in the right hand, passes it close to the finger of tin left hand, down to the arteria innominata, and carrying it round it, drawn the threads, and applies Graefe’s ligature-apparatus. Mott used the instruments employed by Parish, Hartshorne, and Hewson (a' which he recommends as sufficient for tying deep arteries. He carries a blunt-endec needle, having two eyes at the two ends, with a needle-holder, around the artery, care fully avoids the pleura, then introduces a hook into the eye of the needle, which i brought into view, with which, after freeing the needle-holder, he draws the needle out and with it the ligature, which is then to be gradually drawn together and tied with tw. single knots. No effect upon the heart or lungs was noticed. [ (1) Ciielius is mistaken as regards Hodgson on this point, for he neither propose* nor advised this operation. He merely quotes the operation proposed by Burns, and a to his opinion of it he observes :—“ The ligature of the arteria innominata, or of the sut clavian artery, on the tracheal side of the scalenus, must be regarded as peculiarly hazardous. I have thought it proper, however, to treat of these operations, because under particular circumstances, a Surgeon may conceive it his duty to undertake them, (p. 384.)—J. F. S.] 1456. Besides these operations performed on living subjects, Bujalsky. King, Dietrich, and Manec, have proposed other methods for tying the arteria innominata. According to Bujalsky, the cut through the skin should be made o the inner edge of the sternal portion of the sterno-mastoid muscle, be tween it and the windpipe, as long as the breadth of four fingers, a littl to the inner side of the muscle above, commencing at the middle of th neck, and extending down to the middle of the notch of the breast-bom The fibres of the rn. platysma myoides are now apparent at the upper angl. of the wound, but at the lower, there is a considerable quantity of fa The cut is to be continued deeper, and in the middle of the wound tl sterno-hyoid muscle is exposed, and to be cut through obliquely; b< neath it is the sterno-thyroid muscle, which is also to be divided. TH operator should keep as much as posssible to the inner edge, because tl internal jugular vein runs along the outer edge. The inferior thyroide: vein, which in the wound passes obliquely under the muscles, is to l drawn upwards or downwards. Sufficient depth having now been attains the artery is to be isolated and tied. In King’s (or, rather, O’Connell’s) mode, a cut from fifteen ' eighteen lines long is to be made on the inner edge of the stern o-mastoi muscle of the left side, through the skin, m. platysma myoides and fits* of the neck; the finger is then passed between the sterno-thyroid muscle and under the right of those muscles, the cervical fascia divided, tl finger introduced beneath it, and carried down to the arteria innomina> I lying upon it. I Dietrich has correctly shown the impracticability of King’s operauO’| and proposes the following. The patient’s head should be bent a litt r backwards, and a cut of from two and a half to three inches long, accon j ing as the neck is longer or shorter, and more or less fat, should be mat j («) Edcct. Repos., vol. iii. p. 229.THE ARTEKIA INNOMINATA. 247 (from the middle of the base of the breast-bone directly upwards, in the mesial line of the windpipe. After dividing the cellular tissue and fascia, several little veins appear, enclosed in loose cellular covering; these may very easily be put aside, as they run in the same direction as the wind- pipe, and terminate in a large vein, which is visible at the lower angle of the wound. The cellular tissue is to be removed, and now the internal 3ervical fascia appears; on both sides lie the sterno-hyoideal muscles, separated by an interspace of two or three lines, and the fascia occupying it being cut through, the windpipe is reached. With a blunt hook the right sterno-hyoid, and sterno-thyroid muscles, are to be drawn outwards, which exposes the second inferior thyroideal vein, in the bottom of the wound, sometimes considerably expanded. If it be of the usual size, the mint of the scalpel should be carried on its outer side, and the fatty cellular issue carefully divided, the handle of the scalpel carried downwards, |uid so the arteria innominata reached. But if this vein be considerably Enlarged, it must be got under from within outwards, and the cellular .issue in that way divided ; this, however, must only be done with the landle of the knife, as otherwise there is no safety against wounding it, rhich is here of the greatest importance, as this vessel empties itself into he vena cava descendens, and, if wounded, severe bleeding would occur rom the reflux of the blood. The hook is to be carried under the artery >1 rom left to right. Manec (a) directs the head of the patient to be bent much backwards, that the neck shall be greatly stretched, and the vessel to be tied rought up to the upper edge of the breast-bone; and the face is to be iclined a little towards the left shoulder. A cut of three inches’ leno-th to be made from the middle of the space dividing the two sterno-mastoid uscles, towards the right shoulder, half an inch above the collar-bone, trough the skin and m. platysma myoides; in the same direction the erno-mastoid muscle is to be divided, and a director having been passed nder the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles, they also are to be ivided. For isolating the artery, the operator uses only the handle of ie knife. If the inferior thyroideal vein, and some fibres of the hvpo- h lossal and first cervical nerve require division, this must be done with the • niie. The artery is to be isolated at its outer and back part with great are, so as not to injure the pleura. After this is done, Deschamps’ eedle should be introduced from the outside, between the pneumo-gastric ■i 6jVe,an<^. ^ie. pleura> carried out upon the other side between the artery ^ na the windpipe, and the ligature then drawn in. 114f' a Wh®n the entire trunk of the subclavian artery is obliterated, the oocl flows from the superior thyroideal and occipital arteries, into the i enor thyroideal, cervical, transverse scapular, and numerous anasto- ; W , sPread over the neck and shoulder, into the subscapular, . . f‘SW|PU rr,,an< Posterior-scapular arteries, from which it passses into id 5?uk °ft *16 .brachial artery. If the obliteration be at the lower the subclavian, or at the axillary artery, the passage of the blood ieal t more ready, as it is carried by the anastomoses of the cervi- ranchp^irir ce.rvical»,and transverse scapular arteries, with the rteZ. n >. y/1® subscapular and posterior-scapular into the brachial i ie ILL ,111 man,y cases’ after tying the axillary artery for a wound, i and nourishment of the arm are injured, depends not on the (a) Above cited, pi. ii. S248 CIRCULATION AFTER TYING SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY. too small flow of blood, but on the injury of the plexus of nerves, caused by the wound, or by the tying (2). n y The following is the account of the mode in which the circulation was maintained in a case of axTaTaneurysm, for which Kky had tied the subclavian artery twelvejms previously (a) • the circumstances of which had been already described (&)• The subclavian trunk had undergone no material alteration in size from its origin to the point'where the ligature had been applied, just on the outer edge of ihesca^ m^ Here the vessel became suddenly obliterated, assuming the form of a densctianrf cord, which was continued for about two inches msmmas Sfd $ ttre“ChSl A pSo?a "counting of the supm.capular and j»»™J branches of the subclavian above, and passing through the>oxiMata term the main trunk, or some of the branches of tte most conspicuously, the peculiar character o J ’ [ which was almost They were excessively tortuous and formedcompete ntearas, ^bes penetrat- inseparably connected with the axillary >q re^der tlleir separation a work with the influx of blood, as to dilate it to subclavian; from ali of which fliecei g in this subject, given off meucement of the axillaiy trunk. . ur wkich, for a short spa<*> preserved through the coogulum confmf|i h the contents were removed, the w- actually constituted the artenal u°ttom S tL cvst - while a corresponding deep iected wax became exposed at the bottom ot tne cy , , , , wsed The supra* liTtlie ^coaguluni indicated the channel through w^chthe^dhad^asg^ ^ • scapular artery was, in t^s instancy given 3 j P from the obliterated „„‘mented just as it reached the scapula, by a iirancn l hl as a medium SI “f the main «t»?k, hut which tod f Tte crip, of circulation, by receiving a veoel’rom theobliterated an it.»" ri,tu“fcabS S S.bvrScial tervical." <„. 63-6.)) This preparation » Guy’s Hospital Museum. (a) Guy’s Hospital Reports, vol. i. 1836. (/,) Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. xiii. p- '■ 1827.TYING INTERNAL MAMMARY AND VERTEBRAL ARTERIES. 249 (2) Not only do weakness and numbness occur when the axillary nerves are injured, lout even gangrene has happened in the case mentioned by White, of Manchester (a), in which three of the nerves were tied in, and in Desault’s case (6), in which the whole |ixillary plexus was included in the ligature.—J. F. S.] 1458. The tying of two branches of the subclavian artery, to wit, the internal mammary, and the vertebral artery have yet to be mentioned. 1459. The internal mammary artery may be tied without much [difficulty in the second, third, or fourth intercostal space ; in the first, its nearer position to the edge of the breast-bone renders its tying more lifficult. In either of the just-named intercostal spaces, a cut made from die edge of the breast-bone, and on the upper edge of the lower rib, s carried outwards, and a little upwards towards the lower edge of the jipper rib, so that its whole extent occupies an inch and a half, and by its termination, just below the under edge of the upper rib, it is Secured from injuring the intercostal artery. The skin, cellular tissue, bd aponeurosis of the great pectoral muscle are to be divided, and also (he muscle itself. There still appear some layers of cellular tissue, and peneath them the ligamenta nitentia ,■ these are to be divided with some light strokes of the knife, as well also as some fibres of the intercostal juuscles hereupon seen, with which usually a small arterial branch is cut [hrough, and must be at once tied. A thin layer of cellular tissue still kovering the artery is now to be carefully divided, the artery isolated from he accompanying vein, and a needle carried round it, from within out- yards.. In the third and fourth interspace the artery lies upon the fibrous ppansion of the in. triangularis sterni; so that, in carrying round the eedle, there is no fear of wounding the pleura (c). Velpeau’s practice of making a cut three inches long, parallel to the side edge of the •east-bone, and which must be deepened to get at the artery, is unfitting. On the mtrary, I have very frequently found the artery by a cut, commencing on the side Ige of the breast-bone, and running directly in the middle of the costal interspace, lore frequently than m the way just described. " 1460. lot the possible case of tying the vertebral artery, Dietrich (d) as proposed two modes of treatment, according as the artery is to be loked for between the atlas and dentate vertebra, or between the atlas nd occipital bone. In the former case, the head of the patient being inclined to the opposite ide and a little forwards, a cut is to be made two fingers’ breadth from he lobe of the ear, or one finger, behind the mastoid process, beginning . .an inch above the latter, and carried for two inches along the outer inder edge of the sterno-mastoid muscle. From the upper fourth of the ? Jngth ot this cut, a second is to be carried backwards, and oblinuelv ' irf’ t0 the eX-en! °[ aU inch- After dividing the skin, some ellular tissue appears in both cuts, which should be divided, and then in ! nd Seen th.e °uter and 7hinder edge of the sterno-mastoid muscle; { 'he " *hnf, SeC°nd’ the m. splemus covered witli aponeurotic expansion. ssue r,d; SrV 0 ?e deePened, through the aponeurotic and cellular t which 6 SeH CUt the1AbreS °f the m- sPUnius ^e to be divided, mscie a sZ V ' ^7 '7 be wounded’ After the division of this ime lirrht Znb urot,o layer appears, which must be divided with nd nerves °f Z a»d under it pass some branches of arteries Part and nrt ¥»18tant with blunt hooks holds the edges of the wound (,,■> ’ j °W a Ia>'er of fat appears, in which the vertebral artery is v>) a*1; 4" chtaSiSTW; pTsIs.1 ■gj S,™H8Lbove cited’p- 89,TYING THE VERTEBRAL ARTERY. 250 enveloped. At the same time also the outer edge of the m. obliquus capitis inferior is seen at the inner edge of the second wound, and is to be drawn somewhat inwards. Two branches of the occipital artery, also enclosed in cellular tissue, pass across the wound. The cellular tissue I is now to be divided with the handle of the knife, and the arterial branches drawn upwards or downwards. Two branches of the second cervical i nerve also now show themselves, and are to be drawn up or down out of : their place ; after which the isolation of the artery is no longer prevented. I This done the needle is to be carried round the artery from without inwards, in order more certainly to avoid the internal carotid artery, which lies very near the vertebral, and is only separated from it by cellular membrane. . . ,, _ . If the vertebral artery be tied between the atlas and occiput, the cut u should be made, as in the former case ; but the first is to be begun a quarter I of an inch above the mastoid process, by which the second cut, which, in like manner, passes from the upper fourth of the length of the former i backwards and obliquely downwards, runs somewhat more upwards. After -1 cutting through the skin, fascia, and m. splenius, the occipital artery^ appears in the upper angle of the first wound, as also at the front edge on4 the upper fourth, the hind edge of the m. obliquus cajntis superiori but in the whole surface of the wound a layer of aponeurosis and under it cellular tissue, loaded with fat, the former of which mus be carefully divided. The edges of the wound are now to be held asunder with blunt hooks by an assistant, and then a triangle appears, formed by the m. rectus capitis posterior, and m. obliquus capitis superior and fi!1Jd with fat and cellular tissue, which covers the artery. This is then o be* carefully divided, turned back, and, if in large quantity, should be partially removed, upon which the artery appears below the m. oblique lapitis1 superior, and runs backwards nearly an inch before it perforates the occipito-atlantal ligament. The vessel is then to be isokjtedjdOj ligature! by the aid of a ligature-needle, passed obliquely from below si Se baLe^Co\S exceeding1 two "Inches0!".! length? “tI tie operator continue peMtodogm this direction till he reach the inner edge of the m. scalenus anticus, and thus artoy is easilv struck upon, without injuring one twig of a nerve (a). . . woui;(j Mob us (b) mentions a case of aneurysm of the vertebral artery, originati g which was cured by compression, the application of me, and so on. hasreCently [An example of this very rare disease (aneurysm of the vertebral artery)a J the Northern Infirmarv at Liverpool; the carotid artery co ild be d.stmcnj occurred in the Northern Infirmary at Liverpool; ^ — —v. SOIUe traced over the pulsating swelling, of the actual nature of which here doubts as to what kind of aneurysm it was, or whether only a pulsa g h wa" ScWed to tie the common carotid artery. The tumour the operation, and in about a fortnight the patient died by bursting of the aueur) trachea. On examination, an aneurysm of the vertebral artery, between the transve processes of the fourth and fifth cervical vertebra; was found.—J. F. S-J d nger in P TInon the importance of tying the vertebral arteries, and its greater danger mnarison with tying the carotid arteries in animals, see Asti.fa Loopf.k ( ^ ]m TThe arteries of the brain sometimes become affected with aneurysm. Iu ‘ i )thc of the Royal College of Surgeons, there is an example of a small conical aneurysm .at anterior cerebral .rtery.-J.F. SJ ^ "lissome ExperimenU and Observation* on in Guv. Hospital Reports, vol.^t. ii. p. 750. — Hodgson, above cited, p. 303.— III.—OF ANEURYSM OF THE BRACHIAL, ULNAR, AND RADIAL ARTERIES. 1461. Aneurysms of the brachial artery, and its branches, are almost always consequent on wounds, and occur most frequently at the bend of the arm, after a wound of the artery in bleeding. In these aneurysms therefore compression is commonly employed with the best results. [“ I do not recollect,” says Astley Cooper, “ to have seen a case of aneurysm from isease in the brachial artery.” (p. 78.) Hodgson observes:—“I have never seen an aneurysm in the ami which was not produced by accidental violence.” (p. 389.) Liston (a) also speaks of the rarity of spontaneous aneurysm at the bend of the elbow; and says:—“ I have treated but one such case in the person of an old ship’s-carpenter. While at work, as usual, he felt something snap in his arm, a pulsating tumour was soon after noticed, and it had attained, during four months, fully the size of a hen’s egg, and was evidently, in part, made up of solid matter. The brachial artery was tied, and avery thing went on favourably.” (p. 181.)] 1462. If the aneurysm be seated in the trunk of the brachial artery, at the bend of the arm, or in the ulnar (1), radial (2), or interosseal artery near the bend, it is sufficient to tie the brachial artery (b). But if it be ituated in the middle of the fore-arm, in the region of the wrist, it is necessary to tie the artery near the aneurysmal sac, because the free nastomosis on the back of the hand, is sufficient to support the aneurysm iy the reflux of the blood (c). The free anastomosis of the arteries of the arm always renders it advisable to under- ke.tying the artery near the sac, because in many cases the regurgitation of the blood mtinues the growth of the sac, and causes its bursting {par. 1423.) In an aneurysm iriginating from wound of the artery, in the middle of the arm, when the sac does jiot extend far upwards, the opening of the sac is to be effected according to Hunter’s irst plan. [(1) Astley Cooper had seen “ only one case of aneurism of the ulnar artery from isease; it was seated where the artery dips under the pronator radii teres and flexor nuscles of the hand.” The artery was tied above the swelling with great difficulty, • ind “ the patient died from the constitutional irritation resulting from this operation.” p. 81.) (2) Liston says he has “ secured the radial and ulnar arteries in all parts of their nurse for small aneurysms.” (p. 187.) In the College Museum there is a preparation ® >f aneurysm of the radial artery an inch above the origin of the superficial volar )ranch. Astley Cooper mentions acase in which William Cooper, formerly Surgeon '■ it Guy’s Hospital, “in performing this operation, (tying the radial artery,) found the ipper portion of the radial artery obliterated, and that the aneurism was supported by egurgitation from the hand, from the free anastomosis with the ulnar artery.” (p. 81.)] 1463. In aneurysm upon the back or front of the hand, tying one or >ther of the large arteries of the fore-arm does not, on account of the extensive communications which the ulnar and radial arteries have with !ach other in the hand, prevent the blood flowing back with sufficient ' lower to keep up the aneurysm. If in this case pressure be insufficient or curing the aneurysm, the sac must be opened, and the artery tied above mu below ; and if this be not possible, one of the principal arteries of the ore-arm must be tied, the sac opened, and the bleeding arrested by iressure. The same rules must be followed in wounds of the arteries of ] he fore-arm and hand (d). Th<I br,acI!ial artery may be tied in any part of its course, from arm-pit to the bend of the elbow. Its tying, therefore, must be con- n), £™ctical Surgery, 1838. Second Edit. 8vo. '«>»x £:tVr!ei1' P-38l.-H.oux, Nou- Walthf.ii, above cited, p. 58. mens de Mcdecine Opcratoire, vol. i. (c) Hodgson, above cited, p.394. (d) Scarpa, above cited, p. 407.TYING THE BRACHIAL, 252 sidered, first, at the end of the axillary artery, where it passes beneath the lower edge of the great pectoral muscle; second, in the middle of the upper arm ; and third, at the elbow-joint. . 1465 If the artery be to be tied in the arm-pit, the arm must be separated from the trunk, and the fingers carried along the inner edge of m. biceps into the arm-pit, for the purpose of ascertaining the course if the muscle, and the position of the artery. A cut is then to be nude along the inner edge of the m. biceps, of two inches in length, which is to extend upwards to the middle of the neck of the upper arm-bone. Ihe skin first and then the aponeurosis is to be divided, with a caieful cut; or the latter is first raised with the forceps, and cut into with the bistoury held flat, so as to admit a director, upon which it is to be divided. Ihe * edo-es of the wound are now to be separated with blunt hooks from each i other, when the inner edge of the m. eoraco-braehialis ^nd biceps o- gether with the median nerve, are now seen, and behind the latter lies . the artery. The nerve is drawn carefully inwards, and the artery which i is between it and the edge of the just-mentioned muscles isolated, and the needle carried carefully around it, so as not to include the internal 1 cutaneous nerve. ......, If the operator keep on the inner edges of the m. biceps and coraco-braclnahs, in the e manned recommended, and draw the median nerve inwards, there ^o da^r of erring which may easily he done if he keep somewhat more inwards, where the radial - or ulnar nerve are met with; and if one of these be mistaken for the median, the artery I will be sought in vain. The following is the relative position of the artery :-The - artery is separated from the edge of the m. biceps and coraco-braclnahs only by the median nerve ; on its inner side is the internal cutaneous nerve, and these two nerves at once cover the front of the artery. Near the cutaneous nerve lies die vein, which frequently forms two or three branches, and these render the isolation of the artery \ difficult. Still further inwards lie the radial and ulnar nerves. 1466 In order to tie the brachial artery in the middle of the upper j «m,acut, two and a half inches long, is made through the- Am.along . the inner edge of the m. biceps. The aponeurotic expansion is then to be divided, and the artery is found on the inner edge of the just-named muscle covered with the median nerve, between its two accompany g j veins. The edge of the m. biceps is to be taken hold of, and the medi nerve drawn somewhat inwards, between which and the edge of muscle the artery appears, and is easily isolated with the handle knife ; the ligature is to be carried round it with Deschamps needle. The’brachial artery frequently divides high up. If the ulnar artery bes river. off high up it is always observed to penetrate the fascia of the upper arm, and tak If the radial originate high up it for the most the ulnar artery to the elbow-joint, aud then separates from it (a). Tiedemanj. t • who has very often noticed the high division of the brachial artery m the corps -> in such cases the radial artery nearly always very superficial at the dlately under the aponeurotic expansion, from the aponeurosis of the m. / 3— it is very easily ,ou„«, but can .to h. «■«■£"£ £iSSl artery lies beneath this aponeurosis of the m. biceps. If, on laving tare . artery two arteries are found, they must be alternately compressed, m order to as^rte-n whether the pulsation in the aneurysm be stopped, for the purpose of tj mg which it is seated. UlCIl It lO 1467. To tie the brachial artery at the bend of the arm, a cu inches long is to be made through the skin on the extended arm, u direction of a line imagined to be drawn from the middle, betwee (a) Hodgson, above cited, p. 301. (6) Walther, above cited, p. 03. Tabula! Arteriarum, pi. xiv. xv.253 RADIAL AND ULNAR ARTERIES. i two condyles of the upper arm-bone, obliquely inwards and upwards towards J the inner edge of the m. biceps. The veins lying beneath the skin are to .•I be avoided, the superficial aponeurosis of the m. biceps is to be opened .< without or with a director introduced, and the artery isolated, for which e purpose the fore-arm should be somewhat bent. The median nerve here lies upon the inside of the artery three or four lines distant from it; the median basilic vein lies sometimes upon, sometimes at the side of, and frequently beneath the artery; and farther outward is the median cephalic vein. 1468. To lay bare the radial artery in the upper third of the fore- t arm, a cut should be made, about two inches long, through the skin, a little Jbelow the insertion of the tendon of the m. biceps, in the oblique direction of the ulnar edge of the m. supinator longus. The aponeurosis of the fore-arm is to be divided in the same direction, and the edge of the just- nentioned muscle inclined somewhat outwards, when the artery appears in the interspace between it and the m. flexor carpi radialis. A branch f the musculo-cutaneous nerve lies upon the outer side of the artery, vhich is accompanied by one or two veins. In laying bare the ulnar artery in the upper third of the fore-arm, a cut two inches and a half long is to be made between the radial edge of the n.flexor carpi ulnaris, and the m. flexor digitorum sublimis, through :lie skin and aponeurosis of the fore-arm. The artery lies rather under he edge of the m. flexor digitorum sublimis, accompanied by a vein, and in its outer side by the ulnar nerve. In the lower part of the fore-arm, where these arteries are quite super- icial, they are very easily laid bare. With the radial artery the cut falls >n the radial side of the tendon of the m.flexor carpi radialis ; with the ilnar artery between the tendons of the m.flexor carpi ulnaris and flexor ublimis digitorum. If the ulnar artery be tied in the region of the ivrist, a cut an inch and . half long, and three or four lines to the outside of the pisiform bone >|hould be made through the skin and fatty cellular tissue, which often ijjills up the whole wound, and, in such case, must be in part removed. DjThe ulnar nerve is now found opposite the pisiform bone, and to its outer ; jide the ulnar artery, accompanied by two veins. The artery should be solated, and the ligature applied above the origin of its hinder branch fi vhich anastomoses with the deep palmar arch. To tie the end of the radial artery, the hand must be brought prone * nd bent somewhat towards the fore-arm. A cut is to be made from the * ntside of the styloid process of the spoke-bone, to the upper part of 111 he interspace separating the first and second metacarpal bones. After putting through the skin, the veins coming into view are to be drawn •utwards or inwards, and the delicate branches of nerves which cross the * lound divided. The position of the tendons of the m. extensor lonqus f brevis polkas is now to be ascertained, and between them, and towards f ridlPendinS Fart of the carPus’ a kind of soft and thick aponeu- nal'lTTr covf.s this part is to be divided. Beneath it are some little , he carnal K Whl<Jl 1 in the wa^ are to be removed, and then upon nth it? 1 b°neS a "n aP°neurotie layer is seen, which allows the artery, '' pon the flL°Tany,n7 r,1S’t0 Sh0w throuSh- This layer is then divided *11 n the director, and the artery easily isolated (a). (a) Manec, above cited, pl.vii. viii.254 TYING THE AORTA 1469. The supply of blood to the arm, after tying the brachial artery, is effected by the branches of the arteria profunda humeri, and the anas- tomoses of the recurrent radial, ulnar, and interosseal arteries If the brachial be tied above the origin of the artena profunda, the bl >o long through the ramifications of the circumflex humeral and subscapular arteries, into the ascending branches of the arteria projunda, an 1 the recurrent radial and ulnar arteries. ... brZhes^ the ! the elbow, for a wound Vpi'f ^s’s^Iospital are two beautiful preparations of the anas- * i 5d,iTs SfJ1X1VS ■ j i big as a crow-quill passes from .ho upper .o .ho lower opes psr. ■ : of the artery.—j. F. S.] IV -OF ANEURYSM OF THE EXTERNAL AND INTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY. 1470 Astley Cooper (*), in an aneurysm which extended fowi inches above and as many below Poupart’s ligament, and had burst,■: r£ with his nail through the peritoneum ,3" gradually between the spine and aor «, and then^ ^ ^ carefu„y sr-r:5 *■ ** - tied the femoral, according to DoAOtT-s and the aneurysm at fir.it dim, msbed a 1M^bul s0°" „ had doM, only tnTS°ahove, and termi.H it 'two inches below the navel. The patient died the same SThto-bone. lie divided the transverse fisc,a on a <■■«»»,h, ^borrthe'n^LylexT'and the sheath of the «"•(»,*!» («l,Ca»e8 in Surgery, p. Trans., vol- (1>) His and Tit av Kits’ Surgical Essays, vol. 1. pt. ■ } om]on Medical Gazette, vol. xiv. p. 68, p. 393.255 AND COMMON ILIAC ARTERY. effected partly with his nail, and partly with an elevator. Passing the aneurysmal needle was also very difficult. Drawing the ligature together id not excite any pain. The patient lived twenty-three hours after the peration. It may be more convenient, as recommended by Asti.ey Cooper, in tying the abdo- jminal aorta, to make the cut about an inch distant from the epigastric artery, outwards, ind running parallel to it, and to proceed as in tying the internal iliac artery. According to Guthrie’s recent views, it is in no case necessary to tie the aorta, cause in an aneurysm of the external or internal iliac, the common iliac on the diseased ide can always be got at, and if not there, yet on the healthy side, for the purpose of :arrying a ligature around it. [The aorta was also tied by C. D. Monteero (a) ’at Rio Janeiro, Aug. 5, 1842, for ;in aneurysm of the femoral artery, close to the groin, which on examination turned out :o be spurious, by the vessel having burst and formed a large swelling, occupying a jrreat portion of the right under part of the belly. The incision was made on the left ide, from the tip of the last false rib to the upper front iliac spine, through the abdominal vails, avoiding the peritonaeum. The fingers were then carried down to the aorta, and li ligature with great difficulty passed around it by means of a ligature-needle. But ittle blood was lost. As soon as the ligature was tied, the aneurysm sunk down, but e artery swelled up (?), and for some time remained as a thick large knot. The case ent on well till the eighth day; at three, p.m., arterial blood escaped through the ressings; it did not, however, affect the pulse, but patient's countenance was sunken ,nd hollow. The bleeding continued, and on the tenth day, at 10 a.m., he died. The igature had been placed two lines above the bifurcation of the aorta ; a small opening ”as found on the left side of the vessel, immediately above the ligature.] 1471. If an aneurysm be situated on the external or internal iliac artery, r if it have extended so far upwards that there is not sufficient space etween the aneurysm and the origin of these arteries to apply a ligature, lying the common iliac artery is indicated. Gibson (b) tied this artery [or a wound ; Mott (c) on account of an aneurysm of the internal iliac rtery, Crampton (rf) and Salamon (e) on account of a large external iac aneurysm; Liston for secondary haemorrhage; Guthrie for a resumed aneurysm of the gluteal artery; also Same, Deguise, and .^eace (/); but Mott’s, Salamon’s, Deguise’s, and Peace’s opera- ions alone were successful. 1472. In order to tie the common iliac artery, an imaginary line ust be drawn from the upper front spine of the hip-bone directly towards ie white line : two and a half inches above this line, and two lines from * he outer edge of the m. rectus abdominis, a cut should be be<mn I a™ed obliquely downwards and outwards, and terminated an inch and a ?!,. below the line, so that it has a length of from four to five inches. In 9 his direction, the skin, the fascia of the external oblique muscle the 9 nuscle itself, and then the fascia of the internal oblique muscle, are cut -I rough ; the transverse muscle with its aponeurosis is then divided with ivil?1 st.I'okesA of the knife, or a director is introduced, and they are JVKed upon it. Any spouting vessel must be tied; the edges of the Inrn ra7-under W,ith blunt hooks by an assistant, and with the (-n.,lnP Sed d°wn 1"to the wounc,> or with the handle of the knife, the ml i T.T!011 „of the peritoneum with the surrounding external parts fc.h7,ae‘d^,,?^irl’S ,J"nk " the" *“ be i"cli“d ‘owidsfte fj y .side, so that the intestines may drop away from the wound, and S"* ?«5“*oas"^“'*>■ •• te,ir&r =i"i Sr-—. I®., asris-irisKs J0Urnal of Medical Sciences, vol. i. Medici Ixamin^.6^611 fr°m the PhiladelP1'ia256 TYING THE INTERNAL ILIAC the division of the outer and under parts be facilitated. If there be not any diseased thickening, the separation is easy 1 but.if there be, the bistoury must be used with the greatest care. The pentonvum with the now to be borne upwards, and being kept in that position with TsKitul. by an assistant, the linger is to be earned down to he artery which lies in a position corresponding with the cut Below the arteryand a little inwards, the accompanying vein lies ; and at the lower anwle of the wound pass branches of the .bo-lumbar artery and veins. The sheath of the artery must be torn with the nail of the fo efinger, or with *e handle of the scalpel, according as it is thinner or hieker; the artery is then isolated, and the needle carried round it, whilst tfcd vein is pressed inwards (a). . ,, , + fitni inoTies lone beginning immediately above the external abdo- Mott made a cut five incheslong, oegm B half Jan inch above Poupabt'h minal ring, and continued 1 hip-bone; he then divided the external ^ tte Sw^fte'^ver^”"tough the thme abdominal muscles, and separated ft. peritoncBum. m Die cu(- should be commenced from the upper and front According to Anderson (&), the p0Upart’s ligament, parallel with it, ■pin? * SbX?sKlb“e™"eaXewhat Upwards, so that His far continue . tjiroUrrh the three abdominal muscles, and so on. inches long, cu!t,ngn,‘ l|‘fnt an inch from the upper front spine of the hip-bone, pro- SALAMONmadeacutabout^nm ^ ^ VV tQ the epigastric artery ceeding at similar heig: i ^ bdow last false rib, and from four to four and rhTSeflong The division of the abdominal muscles and transversal fasew, If an aneurysm be situated on a branch of the internal iliac arteryf to^wit, on fcfeTlcS indicated, as the practice fol J f]ie gac and tying the artery aneurysm arisiidangerous, and only in few cases above and below the won > (d) tied the internal iliac artery for tahil!e‘Seu^rand Mott's eases were unfortunate, but xi,„ ntber two had the happiest result (1). . preparation is in Guy s Museum (t).] # • l n-th is is to be carried round it with an aneurysmal needle, r„\ Dietrich, above cited, p. 288. (b) System of Surgical Anatomy, p- L M Principles of Surgery, vol.i. p.4-1. yj. Medic-Chir. Trans, vol. V. p. 4-2. $ London Medical and Phys. Journal, vol. xxxvlii. 1816. (f) American Journal of Medical Sciences, vob p. 304. 1828. _ (a) Ibid., vol. xx. p. i, *»»• p,. (),) Averilu’s Operative Surgery, P- • (i) Med.-Clur. Trans., vol. xvi. p.257 GLUTEAL, ISCHIATIC, AND PUDIC ARTERIES. In this way Stevens proceeded, and this operation is most proper and safe. White tade a semicircular cut seven inches long, beginning two inches from the navel, and antinuing it nearly down to the external inguinal ring. According to Anderson and Bujalsky, the cut should be begun a finger’s breadth aove the upper front spine of the hip-bone, or even higher, and half an inch distant om Poupart’s ligament, but continued parallel to it for about three inches towards le share-bone. Cutting through the three abdominal muscles, separation of the perilo- cum and retracting it together with the spermatic cord upwards. [The following are the particulars of Owen’s dissection (a) of Stevens’ case. The oman died ten years after the internal iliac artery had been tied. The internal iliac •tery had become impervious at the part where the ligature had been applied, and “ the o-lumbar appears to have arisen just above this point, the obliteration in consequence id not extended to the origin of the external iliac. In the state of a ligamentous cord, e internal iliac descended towards the ischiatic notch for the space of an inch, and en suddenly resuming its natural diameter it again became pervious, and so continued r the extern of half an inch; the gluteal artery arising from the lower part of this ace; a sacro-lateral vessel from about the middle; and the obturator artery from the 'Per Part °f it* The latter vessel was, however, entirely obliterated, but the sacro- eral artery was pervious, of the size of a crow quill, and passed inwards to the second iraljoramen,; whilst the gluteal artery, of its natural size, received close to its origin 0 vessels as large as the preceding, given off from the sacro-lateral artery, near the rd and fourth sacral foramina of the left side. The anastomoses of the sacro-lateral :enes with each other and the sacro-median were large and tortuous. Immediately er the origin of the gluteal artery, the ischiatic, obliterated and cord-like, passed on the lower part of the ischiatic notch; the sanatory processes set on foot by the appli- i°n of„the hgature being uninterrupted by the enfeebled current of blood passing m small canals to a large one. Many vessels met with in the course of the dissection the glutcBiis maximus and medius were found to have received the injection The itaeal artery was in a healthy condition, and of the natural size; but an elongated ’ sUuated between the tuberosity of the ischium and the great trochanter indicated .ve twn d, tel *ef ongma' disease This tumour in length three inches and a half, and „n 0 lands °f an inch m breadth, was of the sciatic artery, and consisted of layers mfltt nCM Celllulfr membrane and the peculiar fibrous arterial coat. It contained a wefthef£'^ 0Urrd gra™iar not lamellated coagulum, which, when removed, , the internal surface of the sac to be somewhat irregular and raised in small mCter>of lLdarte-in7l — S°ft J“ £°me places U aPPeared to retain the smooth rl wL l h imteHd hnmg membrane. From the ischiatic notch to the tumour, the °blltel;ated’ lts texture altered and the remains of the cavity filled iic and pa,-tly ®alrreous matter* From the lower part of the tumour the He arteiy was continued down the posterior part of the thigh of an uncommon size rly as large as the femoral artery in front; its calibre did not, howeve^on esncTd b the apparent magnitude, for its coats were thicker, by at least one-half thananv )w the Jo Sami6 if26 Wlth ltSC‘lf' It: was obliterated for about the space of an inch via vrofunda6' Pervi°Jis after receiving an anastomosing vessel from the rihntinir k , ^ vessel lamifymg between the glutceus maximus and medius and n wS ST1®3 t°t 'fSe muscles- was connected to the commencement of the sac “7"cb lth bad probably arisen; it did not, however, open into the sac bu after Bratus femn^ the p,0I.nt of attachment, it there gave off a small artery to the ; erficial branch oTtheTlnte-fl b °°d Aby anastomosing near the crista i/ufwith a I er part of the ® gt[a aiteiy. A smaller vessel was similarly attached to the 1 the sac tvnSR fl°m branches ramifying in the neighbourhood was diverted y Sma blancb given off at the point of attachment.” (p. 222-25.)] made Thro* ^u,[eal "rJcrV ls to be tied, a cut three inches long should I dCTOT)ine°oF the^h’ S^“ “d fIlular tissue’ commencing at the ,1 great eluteal^m nPi'b0,ne’ and camed in the direction of the fibres1 of and middWwJi6’ fdS the g,reat trochant^'. The fibres of the lower edo-e ofthr r m.uscles aTe to be divided in the same direction, to arm g . * hlP'bone and the artery found. hmichael (4) tied the gluteal artery, for spurious aneurysm, by a penknife wound 101. n, r- Trans- v°b xvi- (i) Dublin Joum., vol. iv. p. 231,1833.258 TYING THE EXTERNAL boy was convalescent in sixteen days. y was convalescent in sixteen uays. To lie the ischiatic artery, a out two anti a half .ncl.es long most !* Lo tie W" and cellular tissue, commencing immediately below made through.the skin and^ceuma ,continued along the fibres of the the underAmtSPthe „nSe of the tuberosity of the haunch- bone where U is connected with the rump-bone, anti the artery .s found h%7 £—JKSi to le tied, a cut of an inch ora, E&rSS",LS SSM it^Suiwa* ?). ^ isoicueu, . _ „ „ „ n k an example of an [InL’ uLmot the Eoyal College »f Surgesj much ont of health, and died. , . unon the ischiatic notch, and adhere SK Sid '■ the cis were s.ro.g lihe *. «* l. many encysted tumours. J. F. S.] OF ANEURYSM OF THE FEMORAL AND POPLITEAL ARTERIES* -OF ANEUKiMi AND THEIR BRANCHES. 41 1477. Abernethy (c) showrf S 7 suppled -•* Mood after ob„,T tl0[Theffirst time AmiMM tied the 1 I year 1796, on a patient in St. Baitholome The*femoral artery was tied for the car one! and femoral aneurysm in the other leg.. J^fnwures Keen which it of Ae former hy Sir Chaui.es Blicke 'f te2 onthe fifteenftdat . divided; the upper ligature weeks after tliis operation, the aneurism. : the opposite6th^h^vas'almost ready to hurst, theJK?, kiSrfP« form, and the skin covering the apex having yielded s°^muchasto w ever cess*from the tumour Thigh, as to make it £ , arts:® as*. j nff-’’ and prevented pressme being ma e up n trLnw0me hleedmg occnr« .3 w wr-* ^wl,S“7i.thf; jh •r.^s'S I " c.t,..l n -44. tioned is cited from tlie latter, and the sec <‘> M*a£SSftJfcl&Pliyslrsl tlie former work.—J. F. S.259 ILIAC ARTERY. le upper half an inch from the os pubis, and the lower the same distance from the -terict profunda, but the artery was not divided between them. “ The tumour diminished really after the operation, and the blood contained in it became coagulated, which it d not appear to have been before the operation.” * * * Every thing went off well I 1 ^ ll A ll /1A IF n Al^ ^ A A A A AAAA AAA 1a A.A 4 A A A A A A AA A «AA ^ A d — .1 i.1. 1_ 1 1 1 1 appear _ _ _ ^ _ II the fifteenth day, when the upper ligature separated, and the“ blood gushed a full stream from the open extremity of the vessel. The bleeding was stopped r pressure. The stream of blood which flowed upon any remission or wrong plication of the pressure was so large that we did not dare to remove the patient en from the bed on which he lay. Mr. Easisden undertook, in this situation, prevent the further escape of blood from the vessel, whilst I proceeded to tie e artery above Poupart’s ligament. Accordingly, I first made an incisiofi, about ree inches in length, through the integuments of the abdomen, in the direction of the tery, and thus laid bare the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle, which I next vided from its connexion with Poupart’s ligament, in the direction of the external pund, for the extent of about two inches. The margin of the internal oblique and trans- -salis muscles being thus exposed, I introduced my finger beneath them for the protec- l>n of the peritonanim, and then divided them. Next with my hand I pushed the perito- um and its contents upwards and inwards, and took hold of the external iliac artery th my finger and thumb, so that I was enabled to command the flow of blood from the bund. It now only remained that I should pass a ligature round the artery and tie it • t this required caution, on account of the contiguity of the vein to the artery. I could t see the vessels, but I made a separation between them with my fingers. Having wever, only a common needle with which to pass the ligature, I several times withdrew t point from apprehension of wounding the vein. After having tied the artery about inch and a half above Poupart’s ligament, I divided that part, and thus laid bare e new and the former wound into one. * * * No adhesion took place between the uded parts; the edges of the wound were open and sloughy. * * * Still no greater ischief appeared till the fifth day after the operation, when a haemorrhage of arterial !>od took place in such quantity that there was no doubt but that it arose from the (ncipal artery, though the ligature with which it was tied still remained firm.” No •ther attempt at tying the vessel higher up was made, but compresses were fixed with 'andage, and continued for three days, but there was still occasional, though not pro- e bleeding. “ In the course of the eighth day after the last operation he died.” On rntmination,it was found, that, “ for nearly two inches above the part which was tied the nisnphatic glands covering the artery were considerably enlarged. The external lace of one of them next the wound had ulcerated, and the ulceration penetrated ough the gland, and communicated with the artery. * * * The ulcerated opening • J? ‘h™uShA the dlseased g]and> admitted the passage of a moderate-sized ie. (p. 254-66.) Abernethy remarks“ In this case I thought I disturbed the itonaum too much, and tied the artery higher than was necessary.” fp. 969 ) This Mha tnV01aed mA1S .second operation on the 24th of October, 1801 and . ^gAV‘dedt^(e edSf of *e internal oblique and transversal muscles, “ I now intro- * the side of the nsnns mnsnlp m n t 11 nil +1,a n _1 . j_. * l . P ^ tliA cUIa ,—““ pei uonceum, ana carried it upwards it's ligament Pluscle’ so as to touch the artery about two inches above Pou- _ gatuent. I took care to disturb the peritonceum as little as possible detaching * 99 1 E Thp"a e.Xtent than would serve to admit my two fingers to touch the vessel ” toleraWv'thlthJfifVR f1611 Tl* tW° hSatures and divided between. He went y well but n miff11 da-y When • thf wou,nd aud contiguous parts looked remark- , ^ixth iLv tLbd ? yrlmet discharged which I felt unable to account for. On ojv fli >the nate ofhls health and limb continued as well, if not improving The erinryc aP +1T, i % 7, , , 4uautity, ILlbOmUCn IDat ] &0llf the ?ed ’ U had also become foetid. * * * Tcould the ninthqS LP« 1th,e,turaour’ but ,coald Press no blood from the wound.” •' -mining the wound 'ke,.a man advanced m typhus fever. * * * On I >. pressinro^hftumVou7 CTe of this great and sudden altera- f -ntityoUlood rendered fluid an«l !gamunt’ 1 forced out a great «"& and died « on the twentv S ^Putrefaction.” He continued slowly * both ligatures came awh / fter.the operation. A few days before his 1 “ the peritonaum was scn-u-ftArl f * the dressings. On examination, it was found l annum was separated from the loins, and from the posterior half of the260 different modes of tying 1 left side of the ***** hr a 3 to Poupaut's ligament, and common camd unto“Sthich is found between ,k, , This opening was situated in the cue vatiolial explanation that can be given of the : internal iliac and psoas muscle. 1 3 1. from the aneurysmal seeiSf formation of this collection is, which it would readily and in the vacancy between the muscles just nMntmnea, auer # # , The extremities i extensively separate the b d“foed in the operation, were united logo • of the external iliac arteiy, which e<e extremity were perfectly ther by a fine newly-formed f^n(1 in each. * * * It seems evident closed, and a small plug of cofj^ tion was t00 iong delayed. It would be desirable that, in the present instance, the °i ‘ f extensive diffusion of blood had taken in future to peifform the opca,i.Km arteries for the supp,y 0f tLe -jlace ; indeed, could the adequate te before the artery had burst.’ (p. itil- limb be established,it woud beprop ^ uth of 0ctober, 1806, on which the i 104.) Abernethy s third case opera , .. on tbe fourteenth day,—sue- i ligatures came away,—the ow® JFebruary, 1809,in which the ligatures came needed, as did also his ^F^^h^Febi.uary the first sucoessful one away on the tenth day. AmMrKrm s tied the external iliac artery with a single i as on the 4th of October, 1806 Trbeb (, , t anticipated Abernethy s by five « ligature, which came away on the 7’^ also successfully tied the same vessel* days. Within the year, Tomlinson of day. Astley Cooper’s first Aencondht^of theatied vessM^d of the at the interval oi. . r zXXS i. 1478. Tying the external ,hac| those belo» aneurysms above the arlena profui / ^ p0ur art’s ligament, tliai, the origin of thatartery, whioh extend so etoe to Vow = cvl.icb. there S no space for the operationof 5 branch of the share-bone, in order h; The patient being placed on a couch , tion is t0 be performed • the operator stands on the s? 6synWand cellular tissue, commencing hak and makes a cut throug 1 front sDine of the hip-bone, and terror; an inch to the inside of t ej^PP u £nt< The cut should be continue nating at the middle of P nnrmeurosis of the external obhqu in the same direction through the musclc> a„d with * muscle, the muscular fibies > transverse muscle, so s greatest care through the thru is to be Jf not to wound the peritoneum. 1 • P d from its yieWw rated with the finger at the lower it inwaJdl 4 connexion with the m. ihacus intemus; and preying ^ ^ vein, at external iliac artery is felt, aecompame ^ ^ fQ be ig^lated with tl on the outside by the crural ner . ^ th(j litrature carried round Ss this last proceeding can, aUeast in the * fg^tS^-gicalDictionary,p. 137. OpcnUoire, vol. 1. P-THE EXTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY. 261 rection of the external iliac artery to half an inch above Poupart’s ligament. He vided first the skin, then the aponeurosis of the external oblique abdominal muscle, d carried his finger under the lower edge of the internal oblique and transverse iscles, in order to protect the peritonaeum, whilst he divided those muscles with a inmon or button-ended bistoury. The peritonaeum was pressed back with the finger. According to Charles Bell, the cut should be commenced at the outer pillar of ? abdominal ring, carried outwards and upwards, and terminated half an inch above - upper front spine of the hip-bone, and two fingers’ breadth to its inner side. The joneurosis of the external oblique muscle is then to be divided from the ring upwards, i|on a director, the lower edge of the internal oblique muscle raised, the spermatic 4‘d drawn inwards and upwards, with a blunt hook, the cellular tissue put aside, and i«: artery isolated. But if there be not sufficient space to apply the ligature, the ernal oblique muscle must be divided upwards and outwards. Scarpa begins the cut half an inch under the upper front spine of the hip-bone, and inch and a half from it nearer the white line, and carried down near to the crural :h. Division of the three abdominal muscles and separation of the peritonaeum. '2) With a semilunar cut. Astlev Cooper makes a semielliptical cut, beginning near the spine of the hip-bone i terminating a little above the inner edge of the outer abdominal ring. The meurosis of the external oblique is divided in the same direction. This flap being «v a little raised, the course of the spermatic cord is seen, and if followed by the ger under the edge of the internal oblique muscle, the opening in the fascia trans- sahs (inner ring) is entered, and the finger touches the artery (4). The practice of Lisfranc and Anderson agrees with this, but the latter makes the less curved and a little shorter, (not quite three inches,) separates the skin upwards i downwards, and dividing the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle, terminates cut a little before the external abdominal ring. The aponeurosis is then to be sepa- ed from the internal oblique muscle, with the handle of the knife: the spermatic ■d now exposed, is to be raised, and its sheath lifted up and cut through with the knife iscissors. Through this aperture the little finger of the right hand is to be carried the internal ring, and the artery being reached, is then to be separated from the cJascia and vein by the introduction of a silver aneurysmal needle, and tied. .’UST, considers that the cut should be made in the same way, only three and a half f hes long, through the three abdominal muscles and the epigastric arterv which j st at once be tied. IS 3) With an oblique incision. t Sf' Delpecu, and others, determine that the cut should be commenced I aSCTL r , Re UPPel; fVcT,Srne the hip-bone, and continued across 9 a™®. tae rectlls a finger’s breadth from Poupart’s ligament, so that the cut t “4Ir ®i0U^pgerS,bl;0a-d- The division of the thl’ee abdominal muscles and so on! I ,cPr a°d P°fT (“)» m case of an aneurysm extending high up, made a cut four I >ei^front'snine of v™ °f SwelHug’ to a Point’ between the navel and the » swelii™ P ?i f th<Lhlp bo"e- The peritonaeum much thickened by the pressure of -ellmgneeded cutting. Bujalskv also makes the incision in the same direction U) ulDrw (6) 7 Preference and objections to these different operations! advlnw0 p . mode 0f t7.1Ilg the external iliac Guthrie observes “It offers advantage of greater space, which enables the Surgeon to see better what he is dnW- , 4te,zrdlv,n:f of w* “ «p » conseTOnIe I??, 1?, d,ffcr“l from the first, which is after all a matter o' L «l, uenc,r’ *5 wer.e found necessary to do it.” (p. 375). He also mentions tbn< I uckn-? the epigastric artery divided in this operation.* * * If the Surgeon ha° 1 U’ eaher ln ?“or in any °*er operation, all that he has to do is tr I a no^be of anv"! b0th the dluVlded ends i and 1 have no hesitation in saying n fins i °P anJ consequence, either in this operation or in one for hernia Tf i f an in^in^xtoft ^wo^^atures1^^^ W°'ind his Peritonaeum of a quarter or of | ent of the external ilis fns H 1 epigas\r?° arteiT’ and a slight increase on the A ce in reality iht^ons’add httlf or nothing to the danger, which only takes it/ n v _ ^ie wound is closed up, and the arterv ic nlintimri ^i J ) u w. ce in realitv when th« ZW a • i 5 turning to me danger, which only takes ly.” (p 37o \ nim. v drSi C °Se£ Up’ and the artery is allowed to bleedy inter- red thc epigastric artery in i82°!’thThTee r ^ th'‘S t0 be CX?Ctly the case wheu >ped it by puttiL oTtwo ,1 U t ie bleeding was very copious, and though he *'ip . | f, gatures, the patient died in a few days of peritonitis (c).] \Z£tzxzr a>- po",'-AnT’s u«ammt “> m* <* J alartery, a cut is to be made midway between the iliac (6) Above cited1pn<284Med' “"‘VnW lleBistfr. vol. iy. p.443. * • (c) Avxbzll 8 Operative Surgery, p. 73262 CIRCULATION AFTER TYING snine and pubic symphysis, beginning at the edge of Poupabt s ligament, and continued somewhat obliquely from above downwards ^ Die hkmand , . n i a ~ flip (rlniids SCD&r&tGCl « anc •inti continued somewhat obliquely iroiu rhe sk"'“l<* mdeX tag fat are to be divided, the glands separated, and he super!,m aver of the fascia lata divided, where the artery is found the rand formed by the two layers of that.fascia, having the vein on the inner, and the nerves on the outer side. ie 1161 mmftnlv eives off the arteria profunda an inch and a half, or The femoral artery com™° \ J’. but it frequently arises before the femoral artery two inches below Poupabt s S > ,,, tb;s reason the direction to begin the cut an. has passed under manifestly, although the cm inch below Poupabt s C0Ilfined for isolating the artery. j may be several inches long, y V, & cut tw0 and a half inches long, half an mcl Textor and Robert Tbor ;tg lower ed„ej s0 that it corresponds to the below Poupart’s ligament, an p g direction the cellular tissue and fascia are U middle of the femoral ring. , . > ich the director is only to be introduced a short tnnce and the division iu ~ , . . 1481 The vessels by which the circulation is kept up, after tying the Itnoi iliac artery are the anastomoses, between the gluteal, iscluatic external ibac artery with the circumflex arteries, which ans< i/TtheTee^artery from the external pudic, epigastric, and circumflex of^neurysm'into*the Artery, but no enlargement of the aneurysm from. ‘plortolfbttmemtaed tot many of the patois had been already ranch to e“CfcP(0to toSSilto artery fourteen ^.totydng the femoral of . in the dissections of drree of to css.:- which Astley Cooper tied the external w'^ndS'days after the operation, ‘‘it if: In the case (c), which died X arte.is wereldU open, and that the blood » found that the femoral, tibial, and 1fibula:1 • anastomoses. The internal pudend conveyed into the femoral aiteiy by g ^ 0f the penis, and the Carter/formed several had'determined ti branches freely communicating with ttie extern 1 the lateral sacral artery si blood into that artery, and by this channel into ;uld the iiio-lamb sent a branch on the iluicus interims muscle, into the ‘ these three routes, t artery freely communicated with the%£££ £anches of arteries al blood found direct ingress to the f™al artery arteries, the obturator passed from the lateral sacral to the orator arteries, a free commum< this case having its origin from the epigastric. arteries, with thebrandu’ ST 5S& STf - ---- ^ t n3®#“*3E£52S£ 00 Hodgson, volAv. Tslrn " " «TIIE EXTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY. 263 .ud continued to convey a portion of the blood; but, below this part, it had become .imply a ligamentous cord. The internal iliac artery sent first a very large artery of mummification to the epigastric and obturator artery, so that the epigastric was supplied vith blood from the internal iliac; secondly, the internal iliac sent an artery of com- mmication upon the sciatic nerve, to the internal circumflex artery. The gluteal artery *J;ave a large branch to the origin of the profunda ; lastly, the internal pudendal artery Sargely anastomosed with the obturator; the obturator, therefore, sprang in this case jjJrom two new sources, viz. from the internal iliac, and from the internal pudendal .rtery, and the obturator thus formed sent two branches of communication to the internal ircumflex artery. The arteria prof unda was in this case supplied from two sources lirectly from the gluteal, and more indirectly from the internal circumflex, by the ■bturator and ischiatic arteries. The external iliac artery was obliterated to the origin . f the internal iliac, as other arteries usually are when ligatures are made upon them to mhe first large anastomosing vessel. The principal agents then of the new circulation are She gluteal artery with the external circumflex, the obturator artery with the internal irtircumflex, and the ischiatic with the arteria profunda, and the obturator artery is applied with blood principally by the internal pudendal when the obturator arises from le epigastric artery.” (p. 429-31.) Both preparations are in St. Thomas’s Museum. In Cooper’s third case (a), eighteen years after the operation, “ the external iliac •tery was pervious to the extent of rather more than an inch from the bifurcation of ae common iliac, but had become somewhat diminished in size, and altered in shape. No branches were given off from this portion of the vessel, which, when filled with hjection, presented a conical form, tapering downward to a mere point, and terminating a rounded cord which constituted the remaining part, or the obliterated portion of the jrtery, and was continued down to the spot where the operation had been performed. I'he ligature had probably been applied just above the origin of the circumflex and Digastric branches, although no evidence remained to indicate the precise spot. Just ove Poupart’s ligament the iliac artery became suddenly restored, (apparently by the iflux of blood from the branches mentioned above,) and assumed about half its natural ze. The obliterated vessel presented the appearance of a continuous unbroken cord, •om the cessation of the iliac above to its restoration below. * * * The vessel liavin o- igained about half its natural size, passed into the thigh and was continued without ■ceiving any accession from collateral vessels, until it reached the origin of the profunda • •om which branch the trunk appeared to derive a large quantity of blood, sufficient to re- .ore it to the ordinary extent of calibre which the femoral possesses in a stout muscular mb; the remaining portion of the femoral artery below the profunda presented nothin o- nusual in its appearance, and bore no indication of having received any further influx blood through collateral branches. Just above the origin of the profunda, the femoral Irtery had become distorted, and irregular in shape, and was rendered somewhat iVior!"6 Y 1 C°n"ex.lon WI‘h what aPPeared t0 be the remains of the aneurismal sac anterl0r surfa?e °f thei vessel and gluing it to the adjacent muscles and • . There can be but little doubt that the original opening of communication ween the sac and the femoral trunk had existed at this spot, viZSjustToveTe ■ X S6em fYal,y aPParent that, as the aneurismal tumour i Kspl i teiated in the progress of the cure after the operation, the opening into the i itas mabnrZl 5^’ Whlle *e of the al’terial trunk, above and Mow the 1 MnS2dtt-UT TTe- The collateral circulation had, in this instance Lp! ,7? he jr,ctlon of the ilio-lumbar, obturator, gluteal and ischiatic - ranches from the internal iliac, with the circumflex and epigastric of the external Riac ? hli thefemrL Theyconsisted°ffeofcoriSgy^ I irface Of thodRlr-e-PftlY1,y °T 1 ie fore Part> the internal side, and the poISr n rticulation rWfJ°'nt’ and may,bu descr>bed as forming a circular plexus around the luX?-T^I,lg amor'g the muscles of that region. * * * The iliMumb - > Zc, bit it dots'nm annear ^ en“sly dilated- Theinternal pudic is also of large i >. 48-50 'I n;c° aPPcar. to furnish any direct communication with the femoral ” * °') Thls Preparation is in the Museum of Guy’s Hospital.] I Jfnce be.8it“at?d i» ‘he lower third of the thigh, or at 'he r,„|s;! f ; ' l8 bcst ‘° ''f f/ppral artery ia the following manner. here it is oni,? j., 7 Sl“'"1:1 he followed from the groin downwards, and . oout two nS " lS‘,n<;tIy ? ' “ ‘° be tbe e"d of a c“‘. which begins , ‘wo and a half mehes below PoorAttT's ligament, and descends on (a) Guy’s Hospital Reports, vol. i. 183G.TYING THE 264 the inner edge of the m. sartorius, in the triangular space formed by the vi. adductor secundus and vastus internus. The skin and\ fascia fate being . divided, and the edge of the m. sartorius drawn somewhat outwards, the artery is found enclosed in its cellular sheath, with the femoral vein under it, and the branches of the crural nerve on its outei side. Wlen the artery is properly isolated, the ligature is to be carried round it with the anje„TS™"Std(t femoral artery m ,he lower half of .be .high; div*. . laiVbM^th/edge6of <^^i^sck!1fsol^edethe artery\^i^^ben^&?and tied it nrar\e P'1” f,T S' 5 »d cut through, and the artery isolated in the way already mentioned. 1483. If an aneurysm be in the ham or on the upper part of the ar enes of the le°- there may be sufficient space for tying the artery in the ham, bu tonaccoun of the depth of the vessel, of the difficulty of its isolation, kfnearness to the joint, and so on, this operation is to be considered as by far more dangerous and less safe than that of tying the femoral arteiv. In i aneummsTyino- the femoral artery is to be unconditionally preferred and only in cases of wound of the popliteal artery is its tymg ^dicat^im which sufficient enlargement of the wound is the rest, the popliteal artery has been tied in three different parts, middle, upper, and lower part of the ham. 1484 If the artery is to be laid bare m the middle of the ham, the line of the ham, through the skin and aponeuiosis, takina thevena saphena ; .hedges of the wound being then geon penetrates deeper with careful cuts, and with the haili t » through the cellular tissue, often side' L ££ as tul trz arteries. When the needle is to be carried round the arterj, tne 0 be somewhat bent. „ tn be made* 1 If the artery be tied in the upper part of the ham, , ed on the i\ somewhat on the inside of the base of the triangular .1 * outsjd& j inside by the m. semi-tendinosus and semi-membranosus, and o y | by the l biceps femoris, to the top of this ^gie, the skin^d J are divided, and the rest of the operation performed as m the tome ^ ^ . In tying the popliteal artery at the lower part i of the ham, t be made somewhat on the inside of the mesial line, ? the knee-joint, from three to four inches long, abo'e j the interspace g W through the skin, cellular tissue, and aponeurosis; the w j between the two heads of the m gastrocnemius4hen hcome into be separated, and the trunk of the vessel and the sural branches (a) Scakfa, Translation, p. 278. (V) Transactions of a Society for the Improve- ment of Medical and Surgical Knowledge, vol. i. ^ m; p. 148 vi on, p. 278. _> . w eo r a A Vt r*1 t (c) Caii.t.ot, above cited, p. <- i loilhunde, K i Host's Magar.in fur die gesammte Ueli»POPLITEAL ARTERY. 265 ■ view with the veins and posterior cutaneous nerves of the leg. These parts i ire to be drawn aside by an assistant, and the cellular tissue being divided vith the handle of the knife, the popliteal artery is found on the inner ,ide, the vein in the middle, and the nerve on the outside. If the cut be omewhat lengthened in this proceeding, the posterior tibial artery may be ied at its upper part (a). Jobert (b) ties the artery in the internal epicondyloid pit, viz., in the triangular epression bounded within by the m. sartorius, gracilis, semi-tendinosus and semi-mem- ■anosus. The knee is to be half bent, and a cut made on the outer edge of these nscles, two inches long, through the skin to the fatty tissue. The skin is to be then rawn outwards, and a second cut across the former made, but without wounding e skin, by which the tendinous expansion of the m. adductor magnus is divided. The irefinger is to be passed beneath the tendinous expansion, and a button-ended bistoury troduced upon it, to cut through the superficial layer of the aponeurosis which covers e artery. The pulsation of the’ artery is then felt, and in some thin persons may ven be seen. The fatty tissue is to be penetrated with a director, which is carried with e greatest care between the artery and vein. 1485. If the aneurysm be situated at the commencement of the tibial rtery, the femoral must be tied in the way mentioned (1). But if it be lower ■II the tibial artery, the inflow of blood, after tying the femoral artery, is ufficient, in large aneurysms of the foot, to keep up the disease, and it is herefore necessary to tie the affected artery in the neighbourhood of the neurysmal sac (2). [(1) The following case of aneurysm of the posterior tibial artery is a good example [ ■< f the practice recommended:— i Case.—M. H., aged 38 years, was admitted, I) Sept. 13, 1832, with a pulsating tumour at the back of the upper part of the right :g. He had fallen down stairs a twelvemonth since upon a brush, and at the same time risted his leg, which laid him up with great pain and swelling for ten days, but after at time he seemed to get well, excepting that he had a little continual pain and always throbbing behind and below (he head of the fibula. Six months since, after having b alked a considerable distance, his leg began to swell and be so painful as to compel , im to keep at rest. There is now distinct pulsation below the head of the fibula and t an opposite point on the inside of the leg beneath the gastrocnemial muscles. The :>i osterior tibial artery does not pulsate at the ankle; and the anterior tibial beats but . :ebly. The girth of the affected leg at this part is nearly sixteen inches, whilst in Ml le other it is only thirteen and a half inches. The temperature of the limb is dimi- ; ished; and he has numbness and pricking of the whole limb below the tumour, more a articularly affecting the foot. Pressure of the femoral artery at the groin, or on the to des of the swelling, diminishes it half an inch, but it fills immediately, when the ■ ressure is withdrawn. Sept. 21. My colleague Green tied the femoral artery at the usual place in the middle f the thigh. The pulsation ceased when the ligature was tightened. Oct. 2. Has been going on well; the limb about an inch smaller, but more yield- tg: the pricking and numbness of the foot have ceased. Oct. 30. The ligature came away. After which the wound soon healed ; but at two lonths end the size of the limb had only diminished an inch. Astlev Cooper mentions a case of “ anterior tibial aneurism a little below the head 1 the fibula, for which the femoral artery was tied; the pulsation ceased in the aneu- ism, and the swelling for a time subsided. The case did not ultimately recover, for a ough of the aneurismal sac took place.” (p. 63.) (2) The younger Cline had a case of aneurysm of the anterior tibial artery “ on ie upper part of the foot, and he tied the anterior tibial artery at the lower part of the g, but the pulsation in the aneurism continued when the boy left the hospital ” “ It will ' "cnT[Lvlri8ht\ IT As™ CoopE?’ “ t0 tie the artery by opening the sac. so as to a7ve a?d b.e °w the aperture, if the aneurism be seated low down in the limb, me anastomosis with the plantar arteries is exceedingly free.” (p. 63.)] -Fkoriep, R., 'above cited, pi. xu.-Dietrich, 8 » p . l. 1,2., pi. x. lig. 3. A, B. above cited, p. 334.—Manec, above cited, pi. xi. (£») Nouvelle Bibliotiieque Medicale, 1827, Feb.266 TYING THE TIBIAL AND PERONEAL ARTERIES. 1486. In laying bare the anterior tibial artery somewhat above the middle of the leg, the space between the anterior tibial muscle and the < loner extensor of the great toe, is to be chosen and the great toe moved , whilst the finger is carried outwards from the crest of the shin-bone. I he « skin and aponeurosis of the leg are to be divided for two and a hall inches- in the direction of this space ; then with the finger, or with the handle of the knife, these muscles are separated, and at the depth oi an inch! the anterior tibial artery is found, with its accompanying single vein and n6jfa the neighbourhood of the instep the artery is quite superficial, covered by the skin and aponeurosis ol the leg, between the tendons of the m tibialis anticus and extensor pollicis longus. If the dorsal artery of the* foot is to be laid bare, a cut is made in the direction of the second toe, on the back of the foot, through the skin and aponeurosis, and the artery is iound» between the tendons of the m. extensor pollicis and the first tendon of the . ni. extensor brevis digitoruni. 1487. The exposure of the posterior tibial artery in the middle or in the* unver third of the leg is very difficult, on account of its depth and of them expansion of the aponeurosis being tightened by the contraction of the* muscles of the calf. A cut is made along the inner edge of the shin* bone for three or four inches through the skin, and the attachment of« the m. soleus divided throughout the whole of this extent. The muscle must then be turned a little aside, and the aponeurotic expansion, separaW ing- the muscles of the calf into a superficial and deep layer, divided, under which the artery is found, between two veins, and accompanied? with the tibial nerve on its fibular side (1). At its lower part the postern* and may by a cut • i„v,^. liotwppn the inner ankle and the Achilles teiicion. tibial artery lies vcj , . T tendon two inches lone;, between the inner ankle and the Achilles tendon lies closer to the heel than the tendons of m. tibialis posticus, and flam diqitorum pedis, and is surrounded with fat and cellular tissue, r /,, T+ -11 not be out of place here to give a caution as to the treatment of a ?Sii35 2SHZS --- ™-T- if reached till this be opened very freely, as it is very unyielding. J. F. .] 1488 If the peroneal artery be tied in the middle of the a Cl*f be made from any one pardof the outer side of the Achih.bs and carried obliquely upwards and outwards to the hmder outer .rft of the splint-bone. The external saphenous vein is to be avoided, apolZTs divided, and the forefinger, passed bfo. the Achilles tendon, is carried upon it before the muscles of the ca t, senarate them from the deep layer. The fascia covering the deep muse* LT be cut through, and the inner edge of the m. flexor pollicis^fc* upwards and outwSrds. The artery is found sometime between the fibres of this muscle, and sometimes between it, the splint-bone,267 CIRCULATION AFTER TYING THE FEMORAL ARTERY. interosseous membrane. If the artery be looked for deeper than the middle of the les?, as Charles Bell proposes, its hinder branch only is found. 1489. What lias been already said about aneurysms on the front and back of the hand, applies also to those on the sole, and on the back of the foot. If here it be not permissible, on account of the position of the aneu- ysm, to open the sac, and tie the artery above and below, the flow of blood mist be prevented by tying the affected artery still higher, and, after (opening the sac, it must be completely prevented by pressure. This reatment must also be followed in wounds of arteries on the back of the i foot and in the sole (a). 1490. When the femoral artery is obliterated at the origin of the arteria J profunda, the blood passes from the branches of the internal iliac arteries into the circumflex arteries of the thigh, and by the descending branches f the a. profunda into the articular arteries, whence it passes into the runk of the femoral. If the obliteration occur in the lower third, the irculation is kept up, not merely by the anastomosis between the a. pro- iS funda and the arteries of the knee, but also by many anastomotic or a muscular branches. If a part of the popliteal artery, or even the origin >i of the upper or lower arteries of the knee be obliterated, the blood passes 4 by the anastomosis of the a. profunda into the upper, thence into the 4j lower arteries of the knee, and from them into the recurrent branches of ii the tibial arteries. [The following is Astley Cooper’s account (6) of the dissection of almost seven s - years after the femoral artery had been tied for popliteal aneurysm. “ The femoral j artery which is necessarily obliterated by the ligature, was here converted into a cord, ii from the origin of the arteria profunda down to the ham. The whole of the popliteal r artery was also changed into a similar substance ; and thus the natural channel of the [I blood from the groin to the lower part of the knee was entirely destroyed. The muscles $ therefore which usually receive blood vessels from the femoral artery, as the sartorius, * rectus and vasti, had no branches but from the arteria profunda and circumflex arteries; if, and the articular arteries from the popliteal, although they were still capable of receiv- >{< ing blood, derived it, not from the popliteal artery, but from the communicating vessels j of the profunda. The arteria profunda formed the new channel for the blood ; consi- k derably enlarged in its diameter, although still not equal in size to the femoral artery at the groin, it took its usual course to the back of the thigh on the inner side of the thigh bone, and sent branches of a larger size than usual to the flexor muscles of the leg, and :k just midway on the back of the thigh it began to send off those arteries which became u the support of the new circulation. The first artery sent off passed down close to the ■ back of the thigh-bone, and entered the two superior articular branches of the popliteal v artery, which vessels supply the upper part of the knee-joint. The second new large i vessel arising from the profunda at the same part with the former, passed down by the inner side of the biceps muscle, to an artery of the popliteal, which was distributed to f , gastrocnemius muscle. Whilst a third artery dividing into several branches, passed down with the sciatic nerve behind the knee joint, and some of its branches united them- selves with the inferior articular arteries of the popliteal, with some recurrent branches t l0SC ?rter*es> w*lh arteries passing to the yastrocnemii, and lastly with the origin of !• e anterior and posterior tibial arteries; and these new large communicating branches ■ were readily distinguished from others by their tortuous course. It appears then that is those brandies of the profunda which accompany the sciatic nerve, that are the P nrapal supporters of the new circulation. They were five in number, besides the two artenesiwhich do not accompany the nerve. The external circumflex was :0f ? fger tbaT\ usual for the supply of branches to the muscles on the fore part itlirl llg ’’ , U iad no branches for the new circulation. The obturator artery enlarrr ,ai>Pear ar8e[ than usual, and although much pains were taken to trace any vessefs l™nmUe1CatI-nS branches between the ischiatic arteries and profunda, yet no f capable of receiving so large an injection could be found.” (p. 254-56.)] («) Scarpa, p. 225.—Roux, Nouvenux Elcmens de Medeclne Oppratoire, vol. i. pt. ii. p. 698. (6) Med.-Chir. Trans, vol. ii. 1811.[ 268 ] VI.—OF ANEURYSMAL VARIX AND VARICOSE ANEURYSM. Hunter, Wm, M.D., Medical Observations and Inquiries, vol. i. p. 340, vol. ii. p. 390. Guattani, De cubiti flexurao aneurysinatibus; in Lautii’s Col lectio Scriptorum, &c., p. 203. Scarpa, above cited, p. 421. Translation. Hodgson, above cited, p. 496. . . « Adelmann, P., Tractatus anatomico-cbirurgicus de aneurysmate spurio-vancoso. Wirceb., 1821. 4to; with two lithographic plates. J Schottin, Merkwtirdiger Fall einer aneurysmatiscben VeneDgescliwulst. Alten- burg, 1822. , ,, „ . Breschet, Memoires cbirurgicaux sur differentes especes d Anevrj smes. 1 ans, 1834, p. 98. _ 1491 If a vein and an artery connected with it be so injured, that by the subsequent adhesion of the edges of the wounded vessels, an immediate communication between the two vessels is produced, it is called an A/ieu- n/smal Varix ( Varix cmeurysmaticus, Aneurysma per transfusionem. A arterioso-venosum.') It occurs most frequently at the elbow-joint, as consequence of blood-letting; it is, however, also observed in other parts (1). f n On the upper arm, by Richerand, Cloquet, Jaeger ; on the radial artery, and cephalic vein, by Schottin ; on the subclavian, by Larrey ; on the carotid by Larrey and Marc ; on the temporal, by Bushe and myself; on the femoral artery, by Siebold, Barnes, Dupuytren, Breschet ; on the popliteal, by Lassus, Sabatier, Richerand, Boyer, Larrey, Hodgson ; on the external iliac, by Larrey ; and on the division of the aorta and vena cava, by Syme. . i TMy friend Mackmurdo has very recently had a case of aneurysmal varix between the1 internal jugular vein and carotid artery close to the skull. Its existence was not known prior to death. The man had had scrofulous enlargement of the glands of the neck near the angle of the jaw, which suppurated; a sinuous ulcer formed from which arterial lnemorrhage occurred twice, and Mackmurdo thought it advisable to tie the common carotid artery which arrested the bleeding; but the patient s«mk after seven days, and on examination, besides large destruction of the bifurcation of the caro artery and of the internal jugular vein, the aneurysmal varix, already mentioned, was found.—J. F. S.] 1492. Aneurysmal varix is characterised by a circumscribed swelling of blue colour, and small extent, which is formed by expansion of the vein and in which a peculiar tremulous motion, and whizzing noise are observed, produced by the overflowing of the blood from the artery into the vein. The swelling is generally, at least, at the bend of the arm, not larger than a nutmeg, (on the femoral and subclavian, it has been seen as large as an egg, and even as big as the fist,) accompanied with vane swelling of the neighbouring veins; it subsides entirely by pressugj shows less pulsation if the part on which it is situated be raised ; but greater if the part hang down, or if pressure be made upon the vein be this swelling. If the artery be compressed above the swelling, the po- tion at once ceases, but returns directly the pressure is withdrawn, trunk of the artery above the swelling pulsates more strongly than on opposite side, and is much distended; below the swelling, the pulsation i weaker, but after long continuance the diameter of the artery dW increased, and the artery often becomes tortuous. The size of thes 1 depends on the size of the opening of communication between the;arte. vein, though the swelling usually diminishes somewhat; if the neighbo S veins be enlarged, it then increases no more and no or^ei particular inconvenience. In other cases, however, it is accomf269 ANEURYSMAL VARIX. vitli diminution of the pulse in the lower part of the artery, with a diminu- ion of temperature, sensation, and motion of the parts below the aneurysmal arix, which fall into a state of complete torpor. Breschet (n) has proved, by careful observation and experiment, that in the systole he blood flows out of the artery into the vein; and in the diastole, out of the vein into he artery; and that, on the latter condition depend, the enlargement of the lower part of he artery, which is often tortuous, and of which, on account of its weaker pulsation, it has een falsely asserted that it is diminished in diameter, as well as the other circumstances ud changes of the arterial walls, into a condition similar to that of the veins. By he passage of the arterial blood into the veins, the walls of the latter are thickened, and esemble, in a degree, those of arteries. As in the extremities, the passage of the blood rom the vein into the artery takes place more readily than in aneurysmal varix on the eck and head; so he explains how the symptoms are milder, and why in the latter ften only during the horizontal position of the head, symptoms as fainting, and the like ccur, they being grounded on the overflow of the blood from the vein into the artery’ [Sevnertus (6) is first considered to have described aneurysmal varix; his descrin-2~° ANEURYSMAL VARIX. P at the wrist than it was in the natural state, which will be found out by comparing the • i size and the pulse of the artery in both arms at these different places,” (p. 392) • the l reasons for which he thus gives:—“Why is the pulse and the wrist so much weaker in ■ the diseased arm than in the other ? Surely, the reason is obvious and clear. If the blood can easily escape from the trunk of the artery directly into the trunk of the vein, ' it is natural to think that it will be driven along the extreme branches with less force't J ■ and in less quantity. Whence is it that the artery is enlarged all the way down th»2 arm ? I am of opinion, that it is somehow the consequence of the blood passing so • • readily from the artery into the vein, and that it will always so happen in such cases. 11 That it is not owing to any particular weakness in the coats of the artery, like that in a 1 true aneurysm, naturally and constantly tending to rupture, but it has rather such an t extension as happens to all arteries in growing bodies, and to the arteries of parti- •- cular parts, when the parts themselves increase in their bulk, and, at the same time • retain a vascular structure. * * * I presume that the derivation of blood to the am by ». the wound of the artery has been the cause of the dilatation of that vessel; and that in die living body an artery will as certainly become larger, when the resistance to the blood ■ is taken off, as it will become smaller when it is compressed, or, as it will shrink and : become a solid cord when the blood is not allowed to pass through it at all. * * * Jn . order to conceive how or why the trunk of the artery will become larger, in consequence. , of an immediate and free communication with the trunk of the vein, let us take another view of it, thus:—Suppose that instead of a simple aperture, there was a large branch . added to the artery of the same diameter as the aperture, and that it ramified in the r common way through some adventitious vascular part, a wen, for example, and termi-ui nated in corresponding veins, and that these ended in the common trunk of the basilic vein, every body must see, that in this case the trunk of the artery would dilate till it became proportionable in capacity to its branches ; for till then the trunk would be the , narrowest part of the canal,-—the part where there would be the most resistance, and therefore the yielding coats of the artery would give way till the just proportion was established between the trunk and all its branches. These two cases, I apprehend, are similar as to the principal point, but differ in some particulars. In the case of an aper- ture, the resistance to the blood is diminished; thence it will move with more celerity;' i the trunk of the artery will be less enlarged, and the branches will shrink a little. But in the case of an additional branch, the resistance, I presume, would be as great as before ; the celerity, therefore, would not be increased, the old branches would continue of the same dimensions, and the trunk would therefore increase still more.” (p. 407- 411.) (1) Lawrence (a) observes on this point:—“ The sensation is almost the same as that which is communicated to the hand by the vibration of the cord of a musical in* i strument, and it is particularly described by some writers, who call it a rilling noise;- some call it a whizzing, and some a vibratory noise. This noise is not only heard in the swollen part of the vein, but it also extends along the course of the vessel up the arm.” (p. 166) Liston (b) says:—“ On applying the ear close to the tumour,or listening through the stethoscope, the peculiar noise is not only felt, but heard of almost startling intensity, somewhat resembling the noise of complicated and powerful machinery softened and confused by distance.” (p. 676.) Liston relates an excellent instance of aneurysmal varix in the femoral vein and artery, consequent on a deep chisel-wound in the lower part of the thigh, which at the time bled profusely, but having been stuffed and compressed, healed in course of eight days.” A twelvemonth afterwards, troublesome pulsation was perceived in the part; at the same time, the veins of the leg became varicose, and a succession of ulcers formed on the lower and anterior portion of the limb. The affection attracted little attention till between twelve and thirteen years after, when he observed a considerable swelling w the site of the wound, beating strongly, and the pulsations accompanied with a peculiat thrilling sound and feel—not confined to the tumour, though strongest there, but ex- tending to the groin along the course of the femoral vein, which was evidently much dilated throughout its whole course. Six months after, the tumour was nearly equal tc the fist in size, of regular surface and globular form, pulsating very strongly, and im parting to the hams the peculiar sensation of aneurismal varix, remarkably distinct «w>* powerful. The pulsation and thrilling are continued in a less degree to Poupakt * ligament, and down to the calf of the leg. * * * He feels little pain, but exercise anc exertion of every kind are seriously impeded.” (p. 676.) Firm and constant pressun of the swelling, with uniform compression of the whole limb, were employed, and Liston («) Lectures, above cited. (fc) Elements of Surgery, port ii. London, 134®. insnHMMHBi271 TREATMENT. forms me with success. There is at the present time, (April, 1846,) in St. George’s ospital, a case of varicose aneurysm in the thigh resulting from a knife-stab.—j. r. s. William Hunter also points out the marked distinction between aneurysmal varix id false aneurysm. “The natural tendency of such a complaint,” says he, “will be iry different from that of the spurious aneurysm. The one is growing worse every >ur, because of the resistance to the arterial blood ; and if not remedied by Surgery, ust at last burst. The other in a short time comes to a nearly permanent state; and if >t disturbed, produces no mischief, because there is no considerable resistance to the ood that is forced out of the artery.” (p. 393.) In the first case which he saw, at the id of 14 years, the swelling, nothing having been done to it, was nearly in the same ite. The second case, in which the swelling had the size of a large nutmeg, so mained, when seen five years afterwards.] 1493. The cure of the aneurysmal varix may be in many cases effected Y continued compression, which either effects obliteration of the artery, • brings the wall of the vein so into contact that the aperture of the ■ter)' is closed. But as this mode of treatment, if the walls of both >ssels be not connected, exposes the patient to the danger of a complica- te with aueurysm, so may it be employed only in recent cases, and in )ung or thin persons, where the walls of the vessel can be sufficiently impressed, and the patient recommended abstinence from all exertion of ie part, when from that evil no further symptoms are caused (a). But the above-mentioned inconveniences of diminished nutrition, sensation, otion, and so on, occur, the operation is indicated, and not indeed, as by any advised, by tying the affected artery above the aneurysmal part, but tcording to the old method, by cutting into the sac, and applying a liga- re round the artery above and below the wounded part (1). (1) Breschet has, from the above-mentioned causes, proved that the tying of the tery, according to Hunter’s plan, in aneurysmal varix, which has existed for some ne, produces only temporary improvement, but that all the symptoms soon recur, as fore the operation, and render tying the artery below the wounded place necessary • the opening of communication between the artery and vein does not close, and is pt up by the introduced collateral circulation of the previous condition. He also kubts the benefit of simply tying the artery below the wounded part, as recommended ' Brasdor. In an aneurysmal varix of the temporal artery, in which, by tying the common carotid tery I obtained only temporary improvement, Stromeyer produced a radical cure by ling the vein (6). He divided the varix; at the bottom of the sac found with trouble mall opening, into which he introduced a probe. He freely separated the lower part the much-expanded vein, and applied two ligatures around it; a third ligature tied a “w”r °CClpf’ whl?h communicated with the sac. After the bleeding was thus rru, i wound was closed with six interrupted stitches. I eVeThmSh! WMch D,r- ga.ve t? the y°unS lady ™s “to do nothing while I SfSSiS f C0,nsiderable alteration ” (p. 398) in the swelling, which she followed , ingle aSy ' yearS’ And m the second case not a hint is given about I hich u\?e°sceEn o'f h N° Trf0n baS bem required for tllis disease- in any case V It rll f ’ 1,Sn0t a dan£erous state, either to the life, or even to the ATKivsovdnfS vC a™ weaker, and nothing more serious arises from it.” (p. 84.) | „• A ‘ l . York (c), however, in a large and increasing size of an aneurysmal Ration!] US lt U neCGSSary t0 take up the brachial artery, but the patient died of morti- | ct4??;. a Vtf’ wounded in the way described, be not in immediate con- tlique no SHo^en7t,W0Unded,at ^ "T* ***’> °r * 011 account of the ,<| no ob hZ? th-6 WAUnd’ °r. by the compression employed, the blood m ,fl°WlnS int0 the vein, the cellula/ tissue which jra\ s Iy an( VGln expa|:>^s into an aneurysmal sac by which ovici^HPA’ abovc cited> P- 432.—Brescdet, - - J . VUU tl \c) Cooper s Lectures, vol. ii. p. 84. (6) 43urckhardt> Archiv. der physioloirischen neilkunde von Hoser und Wunderlich, 18-43.VARICOSE ANEURYSM. 272 the two vessels communicate with each other. The vein is somewhat dis- tant from the artery, and the blood flows from the sac into the vein and thus is formed a Varicose Aneurysm (Aneurysma vancosum.) In this case the aneurysmal sac enlarges, and, it is to be feared, wi 1 buret; Clot forms in the sac, and, together with the tremulous swelhng of the vein is felt a firm pulsating swelling, of defined extent, which, if the artery be compressed above, does not, as in vanx, subside. I he above- described symptoms are also present Tying the artery above the sac, held by Scarpa (a) and Hodgson (ft) most favourable for the cure, is for the above-mentioned reasons most, uncertain on account of the speedy:; danger of a relapse ; and tying above and below the sac is the most.. proper (c). r William Hunter, was also well aware of this form of the disease. He, ?ays “ AMthe^diVerem^iii such cases will arise from the different maimer in which the 0f tve artery may be united or continued with the orifice of the vein. In one case,' sfraSrf ofTffiffe “flammationani S £eS Sole tumefaction will be mote regular »d moreh"f“S«sSS — vein mtoha ha? M in a common spurious aneurysm, and so make a sort ofcanal betwm vein, into g, , of the vein will then be removed to some distance iron Ifftr mk Jthe artJry and the bag wiR be situated chiefly upon the under side of the may be formed, as in the common spurious aneurysm, (pp. 394, 95.)] In operating on such a varicose aneurysm, when, after the applicative of a tourniquet, the swelling is cut into throughout its whole length, am the blood absorbed with a sponge, at the bottom of the cavity is s aperture made by the lancet, in the hinder wall of the expanded vein L no robe be introduced into it, it passes into a second sac, but not into artery6 which is ascertained by* the ease with which the probe mere, nround and the difficulty with which it can be carried in the direction the artery. After the introduction of the probe, this opening is to be enr Wed and the second sac, which is full of coagulated blood and layer of membrane, laid open throughout its whole extent. After emp ) o cleanffi " the sac, the wound of the artery appears in the bottom tlmiug which the sound is to be introduced, and the ligature applied aboie am below. . . [My friend Green had some years ago a case of vancose aneurysm^ e an it in the frontal branch of the temporal artery and vein, about t e sueat: _ entere which resulted from these vessels havmg been wounded m eupp g- j j tw0 0r onesidthe sac, but i. did not pass ou( «t the other,* fices iu it. He removed the whole mass and the preparation is mKjW s Co g fiCThe highly interesting case described by * aneurysm? does not appear to me to correspond at all with t Hodgso term varicose aneurysm generally implies, and in which it is used by both (a) Above cited, * 433. Rbove dted.-B,BEANCHING ANEUEYSM. 273 id Chelius. The former specially observes:—“ If the vein be not in immediate con- ct with the artery, or if the blood meet with obstruction in its passage from one to the her, in consequence of the obliquity of the wound, the employment of compression, or iy other cause, the cellular membrane connecting the vein and artery may be dilated to an aneurysmal sac, through which the two vessels will communicate with each her. In this case the vein will be removed to some distance from the artery, and the .eurismal sac will be situated betxceen the two vessels; the blood will first pass from the tery into the aneurismal sac, and from the aneurismal sac into the dilated vein. This xietv of disease may with propriety be denominated varicose aneurism, to distinguish from aneurismal varix.” (p. 507.) In Perry’s case, however, there was nothing of is kind. He says:—“ Atthe spot in the thigh where the communication had been pre- med to exist between the artery and vein there was an aneurismal sac about as large a walnut, firmly ossified within, which, by the pressure it had exerted upon the vein, d caused absorption of its coats, so as to form a circular opening of about two lines in meter, into which the aneurism had burst; thus inducing a free and persistent eom- mication between the vessels. Just below the aperture, the vein was obliterated at a lgle point, below which it was again pervious. In all the rest of its course up the igh it was diminished in size and thickened.” (p. 42.) From this it will be clearly ;n, there was neither condition of a varicose aneurysm, neither an intermediate sac, r a dilated vein, but exactly the contrary. Neither was it an aneurysmal varix, for jre was no. special tumour of the vein, nor was it enlarged, but just the contrary, Unfinished in size and contracted.” If the account of the case be carefully examined, hink it must be admitted that it is none other than a simple case of aneurysm, having : very rare termination of bursting into a vein, just as in the cases already mentioned ir. 1402, note) where aneurysms of the aorta have burst into the pulmonary artery, which reality belongs to the venous system, as it conveys the spoiled blood to the lungs for rification. That so far as the femoral artery was concerned, it was subject to aneu- sm by dilatation cannot be disputed, for Perry says “ the coats of the femoral artery, •oughout its whole course, were scarcely, if at all thicker than those of a vein, the enuation having, as careful dissection afterwards proved, taken place equally in all coats. Immediately below the origin of the profunda the vessel was greatly dilated, U Jving the appearance of an aneurysmal sac. Its coats were here softened and much at enuated, large enough to admit the point of the ring-finger.” (pp. 41, 42.) The ossifi- h ion of the aneurysmal sac at which the artery communicated with the vein has nought tt do with the question.—J. F. S.] B.-UNNATUEAL EXPANSION IN THE BEANCHES AND EAMIFI- CATIONS OF AETEEIES. fi VON W aether, Journal fur Chirurgie und Augenheilkund, vol. v. p. 244. | Breschet, above cited. 1495. An unnatural expansion of an artery, to a greater or less extent d ten throughout its whole length, and in its most principal ramifications’ th simultaneous lengthening of the vessel, which becomes tortuous, and th numerous curvings and windings, forms swellings of various size, on iny parts presents knotty elevations, or little circumscribed aneurysmal ' '6TgS’ which sometimes are true sac-like aneurysms, sometimes also 'fX, aneurysms, with torn internal coat, (Breschet,) produces Branching neurysm {Aneurysma racemosum, A. cirsoideum, A. anastomoticum ■ anastomosium, Varix arterialis, Tumor sanguineus arteriosus ) It ! "n'Lm0SAu0mm0n.1y in arteries of the third or fourth order; on the r danches of the carotid, labial, temporal, occipital, ophthalmic, and supe- u artf1CS 5 on the arteries of the fore-arm and leg ; in the l4Qfi 'U'n^S °n t ie palm an(l s°ie; and in the vessels of the periosteum. 2 )nof 1 1,s aneurysm IS characterized by a more or less strong pulsa- i ^san, hvteVe+? 6Tr!ded ,arterie8’ and their various arches and branch- Irvarious^; Jl°tt^’-8gfti • ’Vld’ Pulsatlng swellings, forming distinct tumours vol n ’ " UC 1 16 oootiguously in rows, or even upon each other. Tbranching aneurysm. 274 Every increased congestion of blood by exertion overheating, and so on, increases the pulsation, which, by compression of the principal trunk, is diminished or entirely stopped, and at the same time the swelling subsides ^d becomes relaxed From the various situations of his aneurysm to an, “T IL peculiar symptoms may arise; the patient hears violent pulsation^^ has whizzing and roaring in the head, which disturb him in his sleep • often shooting pain in the course of the arteries; and if the swell- imr lie on a bone, it is absorbed by the pressure, or groove-like depres- s^ns aie formed on it in the course of the several enlarged vessels. AY itb the Quicker or sloWer enlargement of the swelling, the skin thins mon and more and bleedings at last take place spontaneously, or from trifling “hS are oftfn difficult to stanch, are frequently repeated, am. eauK deatli. alleurysm is distinguished from other swelling.!,, ,, IV; Jtnuiation and the considerable expansion of the artenes tot, the distinct puls the puisati0„ of the compressible bothYnay °®c^^t^®®,^j®^^t^|^^ane]^^^^QaUof*pranching anem giectasy, 01 1 y pxnanded arteries thin, soft, and falling SeSic’aS£ .'%S^Ttlle ‘affftKnW to oj^r co-operating , general Affection of the arterial system show branding aneurysm, when it has attained,^ they may be BItirPa*e^°SSft Sly becomes dangerous ; » . or manifold tying, as proposed m teieangiec^ l ^ to , simple tying of the swelling and pressure (1) is also aPP‘lc^‘_ bl^din , (a) BnESCHET, above cited, pi. li. «g- >*•ANEURYSM OF BONES. 275 landed to a great extent, they, to wit, the temporal, occipital, and other fflrteries, have been severally tied, but their manifold anastomoses have in ich cases nearly always soon produced a relapse, even when continued ressure has been kept up on the swelling. Tying the principal trunk, ie branches of which are expanded, is in such cases always the most ivisable, although experience also shows that even therewith a relapse equently ensues; in which case the swelling subsides only for a short me, but soon arises again, and increases, together with the pulsation lused by the introduced collateral circulation. After tying the principal unk it is therefore always advisable to employ, a corresponding antiphlo- gistic treatment, cold applications and pressure (2). If the disease occur i the limbs, and in such degree that the modes of treatment recom- ended are inapplicable or ineffectual, amputation of the limb is the only >medy, but it rarely has a satisfactory issue. (}) Graefe, in the largest pulsating swellings, made a long and deep cut, imme- ately pressed down firmly a large sponge, and, before the blood could escape, quickly iplied a soft agaric between the edges of the wound, covered the whole with a sponge an ch thick, and confined it with strips of sticking plaster laid cross-ways and a circular indage. The result was favourable (?) Travers (a), Dalrymple (b), and Wardrop (c) have, in such aneurysms in the bit, tied the carotid artery with, success, which is accounted for by the smaller and ss numerous anastomoses. Rogers (d) cured] an aneurysm by anastomosis of the ex- •nal maxillary artery by tying the carotid. On the contrary, Dupuytren (e) tied e carotid on account of such swelling situated on the ear and region of the occiput, for fich compression and tying of the temporal, auricular, and occipital arteries had been karformed without success; the swelling diminished, the pulsation ceased, but it re- 4 rned about the seventeenth day, and continued, only less strong than before, in spite ru a compressing apparatus. Mussey (/) tied both carotids, on account of such swell- r(j » upon the crown of the head, with little benefit, as the pulsation recurred four weeks ss :er the second tying; and in the extirpation which was performed two quarts of blood a: ire lost, and forty vessels tied. With equally various result was the carotid tied, jl Iupuytren.) I have seen one case, where the femoral artery was tied without ii nefit, and amputation of the thigh became necessary. ) 1500. With branching aneurysm in the soft parts, those swellings which 1 spend on similar diseased changes of the arteries in bones, actually 'ree> and are therefore distinguished by Breschet as Aneurysm of the v teries of bones, and by Scarpa as Aneurysms by anastomosis of bones. ’a Pears°n (fiO communicated the first observations on such swellings, and after him / arpa (Ji) More recently Lali.ejiand has made known a similar observation • and 1 ieschet (i) has added remarks, as well as historical inquiries upon the existence of 1 5a*es. lrl the earlier writers, with several observations by Dupuytren. arpa (j) also has subjected this disease to a special inquiry. jf 1501. frequently, from sudden and undiscernible causes, often a shorter ' Jon"er time after the operation of any external violence, more or CSS severe pain occurs upon some one spot of a bone, most frequently in f ® '^ghbourhood of the joint-ends of tubular bones, which, when the i lent is quiet, diminishes, or even for a time subsides ; but then returns severely. A swelling appears, the veins of the whole limb swell • t pain sPreads over the entire limb, which has a bluish-red colour. S??,‘Chjr. Trans, vol. ii. p. ]. 2B7 ’’ V°Ux- P- 203; and Lancet, vol. xii. S'J) Medical Communications, vol. ii. London, of Medicai sdence-vo1- 1790; p. 95. (A) On Aneurysm above cited, p. 478. . -rf *000, :4fwec ?rvo1'vm-p- iig-bbe- 1./1 Iilnrlnn Af... 1; 1 . J' f\ r 1 lcu> P* J 1 London Medical Gazette, vol. vi. p. “fi. f •. : .. ~ r “VS mw-ius ues us. ruT18 (Jj Annali Universali di Medioina. May, June, 1830 (O Observation sur une Tumeur Aneurismale, accompagnee de circonstances insolites, par M. Lallemand, suivie des observations et des re- flexions sur des tumeurs sanguines d’un caractere equivoque, qui paraissent etre des Aneurysmes des Arteresdes Os. Paris, 1827. 4to T 2276 ANEURYSM OF THE Pulsation is soon felt in the swelling, which is at first indistinct, but sub- sequently becomes stronger, and as strong as in aneurysm 1 his pulsation is Synchronous with that of the artery, without a rush, and if the disease have previously made much progress, with extension of the swelling in every1 direction. Pressure on the principal artery of the limb, between the swelling and the heart, completely stops the pulsation, by wh ch theb well I- loses its tension and subsides, but returns immediately the com- pression of the artery is removed. The patient has often continued pain. Fn the affected part, which is swollen or wasted, and the motions of which are entirely, or only at the joint, in the neighbourhood of which is the* swelling prevented/ If the swelling be pressed with the fingers, there is often observed at some parts a crackling, as in squeezing parchment ?„ftge"hi or in breaking1/.. egg-shell. If the.one be competelyfe stroved the part may be moved m every direction (a). 11 the syrelllMl £ developed in the neighbourhood of a large artery, it may most coma monly be followed over the swelling. Nicol (b) has communicated a case precisely like mine. _ 1509 On examining these swellings after death or amputation of thd affected par the principal vessels have been found throughout their whole fu c uSiuH and neither by injection nor by the closest e—to could any trace of disturbance of their continuity be observed. On o,*a inn the swelling, the condition of the parts varied according to the « ferent decree of development of the disease. When the bone was » J d7stroy^,7he°aneiirysmal sac, of which .he walls were veiy thick oft« cartilaginous, and formed of periosteum, contained a quan j found but very thin, destroyed in some places, in others but s sXg the pressure of the huger, resembling a cartilagmo^ p am, wM yields to pressure and again rises or breaks like anes‘iefrom th neighbouring joint was always healthy, even whe . 1 ., Th aneurysmal °J only by the layers ^ reveral Cavities fiU^with it, wherewith every —^x£^^ aiT50l3.thThesCe swellings are developed on ^ nnt unfreauently on several bones of one and the sa 1 . , w skull, trunk, and limbs, most frequently on the upper bone# j below the knee, on the shin, or splint bone alone, jn ti , onceW (Pearson, Lallemanu, Dufuytren) ; but hardly ever middle of the long tubular bones. , , rnaj vi< I The occasional causes of these swelhngs are commo^ h vejgh.. lence, a kick, blow, fall, or any violent exertion in lifting a heavy . n !«1 Joura , a p„KI ills Zur Lelire von den schwammigen Auswiichsen del harten Himhaut unddes SchadeU. Heidelberg, 1831. fel. Erste Ueobachtung, p. 43. 7,) Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Jo° July.ARTERIES OF BONES. 277 nd so on, in which the patient feels a crack at the spot where subse- uently the disease is developed; the interval, however, between the peration of such cause and the origin of the disease is very great, and uring this time the patient often feels no pain, or only indistinct and ransient pain. Lallemand observed this disease occur after acute heumatic swelling of the knees. Ordinarily the swelling has a general iternal cause, manifestly corresponding with which is its not unfrequent — " 11 ’ t T 1 l > t [ a case, &c. ; in Med.-Chir. Trans., vol,ANEURYSM OF THE 278 * * * unaccompanied by hemorrhage. * • ^ P On examination, **the lamour was found » ““"«f »». a-T On =«*», •' the tumour,,, found •«-«-Urc/Zr^ ! dense osseous tissue, the latter situa e T1je^,llolu series 0f femoral, inguinal, and which it appeared to have originated. _ _ A tv*o fpmnwl v___i worp rnnvert J-;0 •which it appeared to have originates g tumours. The femoral and %'\\, lumbar absorbent glands were conv nart of the thigh, the femoral artery wa» iv* popliteal arteries were sound. Uithe P^ absorbjng glands which were closely '• a little compressed and displaced by t StanlEy mentions two cases of Hone- Jfj! united to it.” (p. 304-306.) Under this head i ^ of which son’s, of encephalon! tumours in t tnmrmrs owed their pulsation I know not, but I VL Hodgson observes :—“ To what the . „ * jg0 a case 0f Lawrence’s (a) of : thought it was dem^from c°^ ig^ias of ^ ^ attended at one period with ' “ medullary tumour developed m the neaa,uid’ posterior tibial arteries at the pulsation and suppression of the pu limb ^ Lawrence states that the i ■ •** 5•"MSiXETSS,S?& S«« dlrision of Um.vm : S~i^^tof the ; . medullary tumour had piotruded fiom tb b tbe interosseous ligament,” which 1 artery, and the passage of th e:anterior early period; for the I u n;W/.,imctQnpp np.munts for the pulsation 1c ,Poc pnrtfinpd hv « i ~ artery, and the passage of the anterimfor tfc “ circumstance accounts for the pulsation morbid growth was confined by L suppression of the pulse in the tibial hen the progress of the swelling , the fascia of the leg, andits subseqiaent pressure.” Stanley also refers . through the fascia had liberated the artene P ^ the nates as large as an to a case of Guthrie’s (b), m which therew „ the puisation was decidedly adult’s head, which was considered to be aii aneurys ^ P sound attendant on manifest in every part; and, on putting.the ear^ * - * The liga, the flowing of blood into an an|“ls“dc°bJfdiminution of the tumour to the extent ot ture of the common iliac was followed by a di lete five months afterwiM one half, and the recovery from the operation 1 examination tbe tumour was 1 the tumour again enlarged, alK\s’l®J^d' l)S3tancek The arteries were healthy. Of found to he composed of cerebnform ^"e^i tumour originated in the second kind, was Stanley s °^n casN ed with cells dispersed through it the ilium, it was soft, spongy, an bloo^. Bunches of convoluted vessels each about the size of a pea, and fi when macerated, this substance « •were drawn out of this spongy substau , > swelled spieen or placenta. Heft j reduced to a tissue closely resembling distension of its vessels and ceUs; and was a structure capable enlargement continuot with the arterial system, it may b. assuming these to have been due y -would give to the whole mass a pal; added, that the rush of blood into such a street ^ .g ^ertain that this tumour die sation resembling that of aneurism , tbe ’aorta was compressed through the possess such pulsation, which ceas 3 enlarged and became tense when tto abdominal parietes; moreover, that the » ^ der similar circumstances femoral artery below it was compiessed, n T, EY uy younger Law $3? toe /one.” Similar“ rence, of Brighton, in which the tum°ur in t e 88 after which it rapidlj increased to the size of an egg, was len over^he whole tumour, and a6®®™* increased The pulsation continued, was unitoim over lne . . lb tumonr wa panie^by a distinct bruit.” . The man died and on The vessel- found to consist “ of vessels intermixed with soft gelatinou and very con formed more than half the tumour, were ab°ut; tlhe s^?. (pp. 309, 310.) Tb voluted; and were directly continuous with therefer t^d with the third form is the disease which Bresctet and Sca . Stanley relates in wbic which they have given must be included Lukl ’ i.. was firmly nm|e< T man o720yeagrs broke his thigh; 7f f^£55.* ** ~ A month afterwards, by a second accident, the bone w as o A tumour no' | p„™“ Reunion of .heW.ure ensued to ^ ,.d **• * formed in the situation ot the injury ; it wM hard in so Pf &lloWC<|. Tb ethers A grooved needle was introduced into it, and J . ..j pulsation m . 1 tumour increased to the size of a large melon, became very pam^ a^ P'“ ^ , wS now discovered. Suspicion of its being an aneunsmin ^ thc effect < ltotinn it was determined to tie the femoral arter} , . tkg extent < i (a) Observations on Tumours ; in Med.-CUlr. . and vol. vi. p. 101. 1835' Trans., vol. xvii. p. 39. 1»3Z.279 ARTERIES OF BONES. rihe medullary artery was greatly enlarged, and threw out a forcible jet of blood. The an left the hospital with the stump healed, and in every respect well. On examining the nb, the lower third of the femur was found expanded into a spherical tumour, in the terior of which were cells of varying size, some of the largest about an inch in dia- eter, and tilled with blood. The femoral and popliteal artery were entire and healthy.” p. 311, 12.) Although Stanley places this case among the third kind of pulsating mours, yet it seems, from the history, that it has greater resemblance to the cond. From the recital of these cases, one important point immediately attracts attention, hich is, the absence of any peculiar character by which either form of swelling could ■ distinguished from aneurysm, for which they seem to have been almost universally istaken.—J. F. S.] 1505. In treating this disease, in some cases applications of various nds, leeches, rubbing in, mercurial treatment in presumed syphilitic seases, and so on, have been employed, but without any result. Only in a strict and sufficiently long continued antiphlogistic treatment, with tention to the general causes standing in somewhat causal relation, per- ips prevent the development of this disease. If the swelling have ready acquired a certain stage, according to our present experience, mg the principal arterial trunk, or amputation (if the situation of the sease permit) can alone effect a cure. 1506. Tying the principal trunk of the artery gives the more hope, :cording as it is undertaken early, even before considerable destruction 'the bone has taken place. Lallemand’s case proves that a perma- ;nt cure may be effected ; but when the diseased change in the bone has i far advanced, only temporary diminution of the swelling and removal ’ the aneurysmal symptoms are effected, whilst the disease of the bone mtinues spreading, as shown by Dupuytren’s (a) case, in which, seven >ars after the femoral artery had been tied for such swelling at the pper part of the shin-bone, amputation was required, as, without the appearance of any aneurysmal symptoms, it had attained an enormous ze. In all cases where the. destruction of the bone has already far Ivanced, amputation can only be considered as a means of deliverance ; must not, however, be herein overlooked that with existing constitutional isease, even after the operation, without any cause, the disease may be :t up again, as shown in Scarpa’s (b) first case, in which, five years fter amputation, during which time the patient’s health was good, the isease, without any cause, again showed itself on the stump of the thigh- one. BC.—UNNATURAL EXPANSION IN THE CAPILLARY-VASCULAR SYSTEM. t Bell, J., Principles of Surgery, vol. ii. p. 456. On the Aneurysma per anastomosin. * Graefe, C. F., De notione et cura angiectaseos labiorum. Lipsise, 1807. 4to. Ibid., Angiektasie ein Beitrag zur rationellen Kur und Erkenntniss der Gefassaus- ennungen. Leipz., 1808. 4to; with copper-plates. J Richerand, Nosographie Chirurgicale, vol. iv. p. 120. i Hodgson, above cited, p. 441. 15^2’ Rela,tio" d.’un Voyage fait h Londres en 1814; ou Parallele de la Chirurgie giaise avec la Chirurgie fran^aise. Paris, 1815, p. 211. 820*^8^^’ ^> ’ ^lemoire sur les Fongus medullaire et hematode. Paris and Geneva, (n) Burse het, above cited, p. 15. (5) Above cited, p, 483.TELEANGIECTASY. 280 VON W ai/ther, Ueber Verhiirtung, Scirrhus, harten und weichen Krebs Medullar- sarcom, Blutscliwamm, Teleangiektasie, und Aneurysma per Auastomosin, in Journal fur Chirurgie und Augenbeilkunde, vol. v. p. 189. ,, J i 1507. By the unnatural expansion of the capillary vessels are pro- duced soft elastic swellings, which, consisting merely of numerous vessels tortuous and connected together with loose cellular tissue, can ^respect' to their internal structure, be compared with nothing better than the nlacenta The different designations, Fungus hamatodes, honor Jun- gosus sanguineus, Aneurysma per anastomosin, Aneurysma spongwstm,- Blutscliwamm, Teleangiektasie, Tumeur erectile, Splenoide haie been* aPf^ito the best of all these designations. The term bloody fungu,. (Funaus hamat.odes') 1 employ here, but not in the sense oj Hey and others, who thereby (cungus na.mai.uuea j y j », . , T - i„r tue term Funaus medullaris more designate another degeneration, for which I consider tne wrm *unyu w annroDriate • at least, I cannot, after numerous examinations, admit (as v\ althsM does) any other Fungus hamatodes besides teleangiectasy and medullary fungus.. 1508. These swellings, which originally have their seat in the skin ando underlying cellular tissue, occur either in children or adults, or are i congenital. It generally begins with a red or bluish spot, which at firsti L little or not at all elevated\bove the skin, and ncreases in a shorter or longer time to a variously shaped swelling, in which the Patie»t fe^ peculiar crawling and beating, which on closer examination maj be more or less distinctly perceived. The colour of the swelling is sometimes more red, sometimes more bluish; it enlarges and pulsates more d;stincdy at° every exertion, by which the circulation of the blood is quickened When it has attained a great extent, single fluctuating spo s anse, skin thins, bursts, and considerable bleedingensues recurs The apertures often close with a seemingly firm scar , and often red, fungenis granulations spring up from them, which consist merely of oM blood. The interior of such swelling exhibits a convolution of « c rable vessels enveloped in loose cellular tissue, many cavities filled• wJUi Si,-! single vessel, full of holes, out of wta* ‘ trickles. If these swellings exist in the cellular toue beneath fl I the latter retains its" natu ral co,edition fhr .1-*-,. — fluctuation is felt; the skin gradually allied in the^l mentioned; tTe disease rarely extends between the deep-lying Ojg-J Swellings of this kind may be very eas ily.mistaken The'fungous growths, after the bursting of teleangiectasy,, result» ther’s opinion) if no definite general dyscrasy ha present ?n medal * and fungous teleangiectasies, but never any extension to diseases, thev «!*• lary fungus. Also in this degree, if teleangiectases arise after 1 ral d - ’depjnd , cially affect the constitution by repeated loss of blood. Ep the drcumstancS tha j favourable results produced by suppuration and scarring, as also the bursten teleangiectasies are often closed by a tough scar. _ for 1509. These swellings originate in an unnatural the* i tainly also in a large development of the capillary vessels , In nC6( I must-be considered as the terminations of the arterial, and the imfl I ment of the venous system, we find m such ^^^’iiferv-vascula the arterial, sometimes rattier the venous side of o | system affected. This difference manifests itself bj I' the swelling, and the circumstances accompanying its de I : Sangicctiy, Which affects rather the artenal stde of the caput*.281 TELEANGIECTASY. ystem, the redness is brighter, the pulsation more distinct, and the Ljiargement more rapid; but in the venous blood -fungus the redness is Lore dull, bluish, the pulsation less, frequently not at all perceptible, and be growth slower. Jaeger’s assertion, that teleangiectasy never exhibits pulsation, and that this is only he case when it is accompanied with Aneurysma anastomosium, is incorrect. Certainly, t never is perceived in flat though extensive teleangiectasy, but it certainly is, when it |as risen up to actual swelling, and especially in great agitation of the vascular system, •hen the crawling pulsation is perceptible even to the patient himself. | 1510. Besides the considerable ramification and development of the essels, various changes may also arise in such swellings from thickening |nd degeneration of the uninjectable part of their cellular tissue, whereby he swelling varies more or less (1) from that above described. Teleangi- kdasy may also, especially by continued irritation, be accompanied with \neurysma anastomosium, if situated where there are numerous arterial [.unifications and anastomoses. Teleangiectasy then increases more rapidly tronger pulsation is felt in the neighbouring branching arteries, and the ulsation in the swelling itself even, is greater (par. 1496.) (1) I have seen one such teleangiectasy between the thumb and metacarpal bone of he forefinger, as a dusky red swelling, expanding at certain parts into thin blood sacs, rith crawling pulsation, additional swelling, and redness in hanging down of the hand, bd diminution of these appearances on raising the fore-arm, or compressing its vessels [r the swelling itself with the fingers, in which the sac felt as if full of wool. I pplied to it the name of Teleangiectasis lipomatodes. Tying the radial artery dimi- Sshed the extent, and all the other appearances of the swelling (a). | 1511. The causes of this disease are obscure. It occurs at all ages, and |i all constitutions, though most commonly in young subjects of flabby jabit, in children, and women. It is developed in all organs, but espe- pally on the upper part of the body, in the skin of the skull, of the weeks, of the eyelids, and on the lips. A. contusion frequently gives rise 11 must deny von Walther’s assertion that teleangiectasy must be always congenital fecause that peculiar vascular development, and alteration of the iujectable part of the QDStanO.f* Ol t.nP OTfran wVlinVl lmnnonc in A • _ , 1 . . • i i . . ^ uy ns ana 'o10! by the age and constitution of the person affected with it Thp one-emtnl rorl orW t 1 1 .. .. - ‘ c (a) Heidelberg Med. Annalen, vol. i. p. 101. pi. iv.282 TREATMENT OF removal either by extirpation or tying, by destruction with caustic or with the actual cautery, by exciting a pretty violent injlammation and suppuration, and by tying the principal trunk of the artery, with the branches of which the swelling is connected. I he choice and preference of the several modes of treatment depend on the condition and seat of the disease, and we must be especially careful in the selection of these, that the teleangiectasic tissue be capable of sufficient inflammation and suppuration, and that the scar thereby produced can be converted into a tough tissue, with obliteration of the vessels, without it being necessary to destroy or remove it entirely. 1514. Compression of teleangiectasy, either alone or m connexion at the same time with astringent remedies or cold, can only be employed in a slight degree of the complaint, in congenital red spots, if their seat, permit it, with some degree of success (a). I have, however, from thiaq mode of treatment, frequently as I have tried it, never obtained any sato* factory result. Abernethy (b) recommends pressure, and if this be inapplicable, the appheataon o cold rose water and alum. I have instituted several experiments with kreosote, but have never observed the slightest result (c). Compression has been used, according to dXent seat of the disease, with flat plates and stirrup-shaped compressors, and even with plaster of Paris. 1515. Extirpation of teleangiectasy with the knife, is always accom-r panied with more or less considerable bleeding; as, if the patient be youno-, and the seat of the disease such that it is not possible to complete the operation quickly, the danger maybe imminent and even fatal_ Evegl thing depends on the cut which is carried round the swelling being madw at sufficient distance from it in the healthy parts, as otherwise, on account of the very numerous and largely-distended vessels, severe bleedip ensues ; and if a part of the swelling be left, its recurrence is to be feared If it be requisite to leave part of the swelling, the actual cautery m applied, or caustics with subsequent pressure in order to cause destruc- tion, and at the same time to stanch the bleeding, wound is to be treated according to the general rules. This treat“en^ often tedious, because frequently no satisfactory suppuration ensi the edges of the wound long continue loose. In large and A?1 te giectasTes, therefore, extirpation can never be employed, but especially only in those which are elevated and have a narrow base. _ . £ I have known two instances in which children died upon the operating tab c in « pating^teleangiectasy from the face; and at least in one of the cases, no one cool doubt the capability of the highly-distinguished operator. 1516. Tying a teleangiectasy has always this great advantage o extirpation?that nothing is to be feared from bleeding. Its employ is specially applicable to projecting swellings with narrow base , but in the large and out-spreading teleangiactasies, which are prom ’ £ <f mode may, according to White (rf), Lawrence 0), and Brodi-U be employed with the best result, as has also happened to m cases. Lawrence penetrates the base of the swelling. with a stto .. slightly-curved needle, carrying a double thread, whichl is m) cl both sides As soon as the mass of the swelling blackens, it may off wilh the knife, and the ligature removed. Brodie thrusts a ha^ Col Roux, above cited, p. 248. (e) TraDS’ ° P j gj «• * W 1W. vol. XV. pt. i.283 TELEANGIECTASY. Jeedle through the swelling a quarter of an inch from its edge, and a i might needle with a double thread at a right angle with this needle and J eneath it; the double ligature is then separated, and each tied under the m rst needle. [ I prefer Brodie’s method with the two needles, as thereby the whole base of the /elling is more completely included within the thread. If the swelling be large, it ill not be possible, at once, to compress it with the ligature, so as to stop the circulation id cause sloughing. In such case it is better to take hold of the middle of the tumour, ,d having lifted up and squeezed it, so as to empty out the blood, to pass a needle, med with double thread, through its base. The threads are then to be carefully ;lparated, and each pair of ends being carried round the half bases of the tumour, are id firmly on opposite sides, and then attached to Graefe’s little screw tourniquet, most excellent instrument for the purpose, with which, as the threads, ulcerating e skin, become loose, they are to be every day or two tightened, till the strangulation id mortification of the swelling is effected. In this way I operated, six years ago, on child, twelve months old, who had teleangiectasies on the temple and ear. She was rn with one, about the size of a sixpence, and bright-coloured, on the temple, just above e auricle, which soon became sore, and occasionally exuding a few drops of blood. In e course of nine months, it acquired the size of lialf-a-crown. When the child was ut six months old, two other little ones, about as large as a pin’s head, were noticed the ear, one on the back of the helix, and the other on that of the concha. All continued wing, but were flat and distinct from each other for the next three months, when ey began to rise above the skin, having previously been flat, and soon ran into one other, forming one mass. The principal and most elevated portion was on the head, mediately above the auricle, extending back on the occipital bone, as large as a crown ece, and gradually rising towards the centre, which was half an inch above the sur- _ce of the skin. From the lower part it continued on the auricle, covering the top of 8e concha, spreading over the upper part of the helix, and turning round upon the front the ear, as low as the tragus. The pulsation in the temporal portion was very distinct; s :e vessels could be easily emptied by pressure,but immediatly on its removal the tumour >• sumed its usual size, and swelled out when the child cried. Its colour was bright scarlet, s’ id it had the feel of a mass of small vessels, or rather that of a sponge. The temporal por- j an was operated on, as I have advised; but although the ligatures were tightly drawn, k rangulation could not be effected; the bright colour remained, and the tumour swelled i hen the child cried; Graefe’s screw was attached, and the threads drawn as tight as ■ sssible, but without change. On the third day, serum freely oozed from the surface • id on the day following the ligatures were hidden, but with scarcely any appearance of iving cut into the base, and the bright colour remained. The screws were tightened, J it no change followed. On the seventh day, the ligatures had begun to cut through' * 1(1 there was a free discharge from the track, but the granulations of the skin were inos- - dating with the under surface of the tumour, which seemed hardly at all separated. On i- ie eleventh day, the screws were again tightened, but without producing any change in 5 le appearance of the swelling. On the following day the hinder ligature came away at no part of the tumour separated with it; a piece of lint was gently insinuated eneath it. On the thirteenth day, the whole swelling appeared about to fall off; it was little shrunk, but the bright-red colour still remained. On the sixteenth day, it came off faving a granulating surface which slowly healed and contracted. The child was at ais time taken into the country, with the promise of bringing her back again, to have fe remaining part on the auricle, which thrust it away from the head, and turned it own at right angle, operated on ; but I regret that she never returned. So far, how- ver, as it went, the operation was completely successful.—J. F. S.] I 1517. The destruction of teleancjiectasy by caustic is, in all cases, to be onsulered as the most proper, where the swelling is broad and super- cial especially in children, as here extirpation with the knife is accom- amed with difficulty, and speedy danger of imminent bleeding; and an k 0n af.co,unt °( the seat of the disease and the delicacy of the child, austin ^ , Lt| e rel\ec\ on as the hgature. The most proper caustic is n arlnu ^k *PPhed.as a paste in an aperture of sticking plaster, put or th! !, tHe tel®angiectasy, or smeared over the part to be destroyed, purpose of making a slough of sufficient thickness and size, and284 TREATMENT OF then covered with sticking plaster. When the slough is thrown off by suppuration, it is to be treated simply as a suppurating part; healing follows with a corresponding scarcely perceptible scar. In very much spreading teleangiectasy, if on the first cauterization, the disease be not entirely destroyed, and show itself afresh, I have never noticed its qmckei spreading, and it is always cured by repeated cauterization. In adults, ] have also employed IIellmund’s remedies for destroying teleang,ecta.s\ with the best result; it must, however, be recommended for childra always with great caution, as, in its extensive application, the possibihh of absorption of the arsenic is not to be denied (a). The application o: caustic potash is especially efficient in congenital teleangiectasy, wh.c! appears as little superficial red spots in the skin by which they may Is certainly removed, as every other treatment is declined by the parents o. account of the inconsiderable appearance of the disease. The apphea 101 of caustic potash is, on every account, to be preferred to the actuaj cautery. ?',yth! hnlk ofan orange It was then removed by a double ligature, excepting,] 1518. For the production of a sufficiently violent inflammation andsi.f puration, to consolidate the tissue of the teleangiectasy and «««** vU a mass of scar, various remedies have been employed. First thetrej quently repeated and slight touching the teleangiectasy from its circum flrence towards its centre with caustic potash; by which, after . falling off of the thin slough, suppuration is kept up for:a ^ger ^ ■ children who have not been yet vaccinated, the introm of the cow-pock into the teleangiectasy; several slight punctures I be raade into it and its neighbourhood with a lane,et morstened » lvmnh and at regular distances apart. If there be bleeding, some ljtnp is to be at once introduced into the wound with a lancet, and eienj folds of linen, steeped in the lymph, applied to the tel^ngiecta^y. ^ I form in the ordinary manner, and after the slough falls off, the teleanff . v bos ceased (/>)■ Similar to this treatment is the application * (Hickman) ; after .he ptodo^fj taL poultices are to be applied, and after sepjrat.cn of the s^oag , tuies, puu • , , caustic, and bound up with stiCM and bound up with - („) Heidelberg, klinisclie A.nnalen, vol. iv. p. Med.-Chir. Review, vol.vii. p. 280.—Lancet, vol. xii p. Glasgow Med. Journal^vol. i. p. L in Lancet, vol. ii. p« 237*TELEANGIECTASY. 285 t laster. Third, the practice recommended by Marshal Hall (a), of t iercing with a fine needle through the whole mass of the teleangiectasy, Sose to the sound part, and its repetition in from eight to ten different rections. The punctured canals heal and the tissue is thereby changed. «here possible, pressure may still be employed, but it has no particular ect. Fourth, according to Lallemand (b), cutting into or cutting I it a piece of the teleangiectasy, and uniting the edges of the wound ith the twisted suture, or the introduction of long and thick needles irough the swelling, which are not however used for twisting round ie thread, but their points only bent up, and the part defended with a roper covering. When the needles have suppurated out, if the swelling ill continue, they must be introduced again. We need not be uneasy at le bluish, almost blackish, appearance of the swelling immediately after te introduction of the needles; it is a good sign that the inflammation will tain sufficient height. A frequent repetition of the lunar caustic is ne- :ssary ; perhaps the application of nitrate of silver is better. Fifth, the troduction of a seton by means of a needle, through the teleangiectasy, f which the bleeding from the needle-stab is stanched, and by it imaining in a proper degree of inflammation and suppuration is pro- iced (c). If the latter do not occur, some irritating injection should 3 thrown into the puncture, as Lloyd (d) has recommended, without ie previous introduction of a seton. The advantage of this, as well so as of IIall s piactice is that the skin upon the swelling is preserved _ld a smaller scar made. Of these different modes of treatment, which are rn U Tyrrell was in thp TinLii nf +1 •280 treatment op teleangiectasy. pansion of the anastomosing branches of the arteries exist at the same time with the teleangiectasy, the final remedy is tying the principal trunk of the arteries with which the swelling is connected, and if this be insufficient in teleangiectasy of the extremities, amputation of the affected part must be performed. It is always advisable to apply a lipture before proceeding to amputation, as the latter can always be done swelling increase, after the vessel has been tied, by the ^lMeml circu^ tirm • it is therefore of the utmost importance to apply the ligature aa» nni hie to the swelling. In extensive teleangiectasy on the head, LTeS5^21 tSy7ng the common trunk of the carotid artery even on both sides, has rarely permanent result. Besides .he earljoaen.ioned esses of«yi»g {par. 1436,) and in branching aneurysm, ( p . the’caroti(1 artery produced only mo- large teleangiectasy on the ear, m d y g old obtained only imperfect mentary benefit (a). Mott ina™ subsequently tied the carotid on the other result from tying ^ <*^d f^and «"S^both carotids with success (b). 1 STh8e“ri°“n £S$2S£iof .he swelling, » P™1”* * and that where undertaken it would Without branching aneurysm or other degey assertion. Teleangiectasy is of i s > otber means than amputation remains neration, to attain so frightful a teleangiectasy showed itself after birth, as a small rec I have seen one case in which a teleangiec y h the frightful spreadmg hat spot in the middle of the upper arm :and in ‘ shoulder.blade SeV^ IVeS SuecessM. a„pu<a.io„ was .he onl5 mesas. "ThT^Lmfrf moles on .he The par. shoulfbe is .hen made .ighh - into the most delicate _ branches of t h the skin which is formed of whit covered with colour similar to the natural coio their points projec s-s sass (6) Jaeokb, Handworterbnch, vol. u P- *>• • («) von Walther, above cited, p. 241^ Above cited)(p.293[ 287 ] D._OF UNNATURAL EXPANSION OF THE VEINS. ■ Of Varices. II.—OF VARICES IN GENERAL. Desault, (Euvres Chirurgicales, vol. ii. Petit, Traite des Maladies Chirurgicales, vol. ii. Volpi, Saggio di Osservazioni e di Esperienze Medico-Chirurgiche, &c. Milana et ivia, 1814-16. 8vo. vol. ii. Velpeau, Lemons Orales de Clinique Chirurgicale. Paris, 18 . Hodgson, Joseph, On Diseases of Arteries and Veins, above cited. Brodie, Observations on the Treatment of Varicose Veins of the Leg; in Med.-Chir. ans., vol. vii. p. 195. , Lectures illustrative of various subjects in Pathology and Surgery. 8vo. mdon, 1846. Bell, Charles, System of Operative Surgery. London, 1807-9. 8vo. vol. i. p. 89. 1520. The veins are, on account of the weakness of their membranes, bject to a great degree of extensibility, and then form swellings which are lied Vein-knots ( Varices, Lat.; Blutaderknoten, Krampfadern, Germ.; arices, Fr.) 1521. Expansion of the veins generally takes place very slowly, and at st is not accompanied with any inconvenience ; it gradually increases, Se veins describe, in their course, larger curves, form unequal, defined, uish or blackish prominences, which diminish on the application of essure, but quickly return on its withdrawal, and cause a sensation of ;ight, and often severe pain in the part where it is situated. Varicose 1 ins, by their lying together, often produce large swellings and oedema of )i e whole part: the coats of the veins thicken, adhere to the neighbouring rts; the skin covering them inflames, abscesses form, ulcerations also h le place in the skin, and cellular tissue, (varicose ulcers,) which are >sely connected with this varicose state, and so long as it continues can- > t readily be induced to heal (1). Often by bursting of the vein consider- ) le bleeding ensues; and sometimes the blood is poured into the cellular ■’ sue by tearing of the vein. Often the blood coagulates in the expanded • ssel, and the knots thereby produced are hard and incompressible (2). * >r the most part only the superficial, more rarely the deep-seated ms, in many cases not only the venous trunks, but also the minute anches, sometimes they alone, are expanded, and considerable swellings ise here and there. a Lte! says:—“For the most part, the effect of inflammation of a varicose inflamerl vIri^°dU“ her ab,scess or ujce,r- 14is vet7 remarkable that the blood n Thprp c cose vei,ns coagulates; and they become choked up with the coagu- iditv of tfcf L?S i° bif- something m an inflamed vein that is unfavourable to the ns of i b ood. ^hlch it contains. You observe this not only when varicose ^ Sin agcrofn^ed%bUt^hen thC vdDS are inflamed under other cirTum- ge and very tender' -A.t0 -y0U with an external pile, which is two it becomes filled rd.amed' At II c°utains fluid blood, but in a day dark-coburTd fihriri I? Solld “atter’ and Lf You sl>t it open you find a solid lump '■se circumstances you win nkofi °F*h ar‘lnflam?d Vncose duster in the leg, under :‘gulated blood * VU* S0 lnd,tbat 44le cavity is filled up in like manner with ed. Other varience el„ci ° coa£u'um fills uP the vein, and the vein becomes oblite- ancose clusters may appear afterwards, but this one is cured. * * *288 VARIX. By (legrees.thc inflammation the absorption proceeds, the s des of the vem pp frequently find the- skin ance of a narrow cord. In old cases of varicose veins, , ^ S and ,)e become affected with a chromc m amm , jt’were abraded, and an ichorous irritable and tender. Sometimes the cuticle is, aisi whok of the skin of the discharge takes place from tie re cu^ .g a chroniu inflammation of the cellular leg is in this condition. Inotl'c int0 ;t and the limb becomes oedamatous. membrane. There is an eflusio , t t wjth jn other cases of venous * * * These inflammations are analogou!J1. J ation taking place of a different congestion. But in some instance y surrounding the varicose cluster. The kind in the cellular membrane, uhy coagulated lymph, so that the varicose- cellular membrane become Jdtn ama^ss of soMsubstancI At first you would sup- cluster is, as it were, imbedded 1 gQ qqie lymph which has beer pose that these veins are oblitera ^ v(,ssel are thickened, but they remain deposited becomes organized, an hich may be perceived with the Auger, • pervious nevertheless is thisdeposit of lymph in the flowing freely through the gr y 1 ^ becomes inflamed near it, and this may cellular membrane round the vein, usual history of a varicose ulcer, how- give rise to a troublesome ulcer. sorae pojnt, and a scab forms upon it ever, is as follows tlie skin is ul(Per spreads. The varicose ulcer When the scab comes off there is an u ^n ^ ^ mayP0ccur in other parts of the in most instances begins about the inn ’ ovay form, the long diameter of the leg. * ** Such ulcers are inclmed to assume an ovai io , Tfiey are generally oval extending in the course of the vein upwar ^ of them is dark-colourdii nearly on a level with the s^rr0UI^d ,i veins are filled with blood; but when thi when the patient is erect, an w b ge taking place very speedily from dark ti patient lies down it becomes florid, the h ge t S the ulcer are generaUy o florid and from florid to dark. Thei skin ^ &at it is often difficult to sav a dingy-red colour and partly d P d begins. Varicose ulcers are generally ven where the latter terminates and the iil g ]mich his feet, they assume a foa irritable and painful. If fofreouently are disposed to bleed.” (p. 165-168.) and sloughy appearance, audHotmf^equLn J ^ does nptin general fin the vessel- (2) Hodgson (a) says correctly • flPw of hfood, and causes the dilatation t but, by diminishing its calibre, ^ retards^ ^ ^ branches which opened into H increase in the inferior Poltl°“ • mstance (b), was accustomed to open vancos Petit, who had observed th , By removing this cause of obstruction veins, and draw out the string of coag but the dilated vessels frequent! not only the increase of the disease5 ^ P however, the coagulum accumulate t peculiar direct,on “u„„nt an) perceptible b. and so on (1). Sometimes ' f the body, and seen** drance to the circulation in different i rices mostl *show theniselv depend on weakness of the ven0US g° be t of the blood is someth, where under natural circumstances the retur ^ veins 0f d difficult therefore especmlly mhe lower ltn bf O* ^ closely co, | I I .. . (b) Above cited,'p. 41. p. 63. j, 1793.289 VAEIX. «ted, as not only to prevent all circulation of blood through this part of the vein, but ven in a great measure to prevent the admission of air by inflation. * * * The blood eing prevented from passing through the vena cava inferior, flowed into the lumbar eins, enlarging them gradually, as that vein became contracted, till they were of suf- cient size to receive the whole blood which returns by the vena cava. * * * The en- irged veins were in some places thrown into varices, as must naturally take place under le circumstances we have mentioned, (pp. 127, 28.) Brodie (a) says he has seen varicose veins of the fore-arm to a considerable extent, 'here had been inflammation of the median-cephalic and cephalic veins. These had —ecome obliterated, and in consequence of their obliteration, the blood did not easily ;turn from the fore-arm, so that the veins became varicose.” (p. 159.) Scarpa (6) observes:—The celebrated Mr. Cline having found in the body of a man, -C inferior vena cava obliterated a little above its bifurcation, in consequence of a eatomatous tumour, which had formed in the cellular tissue behind the peritonaeum, id which occupied a part of the pelvis and lumbar region, remarked that the epigastric -ins were become as large as the little finger, and that the superficial veins of the idomen, as well as the lumbar, and those of the internal cavity of the abdomen, were i a similar manner very much dilated ; the internal mammary vein likewise greatly darged, and also the epigastric, with which it anastamosed, opened, as usual, into e superior cava, near to the origin of the subclavian veins; by which circumstance le venous blood of the lower extremities was poured into the superior cava, by means the mammary vein, and into the inferior cava by the lumbar veins above the com- •ession caused by the steatomatous tumour.” (p. 21, note.) Brodie relates the case of “ a man who had varicose veins all down the right arm id to a considerable extent down the right side of the chest. He had difficulty of earning, and cough. One day he felt as if he had received a blow on one side of the est, and immediately a large abscess presented itself externally, as big as an orange, hich had evidently made its way from the inside of the chest through one of the inter- nal spaces. Immediately upon the appearance of this swelling, the varicose veins sappeared. I he man died, and on examining the body after death, it was found that ere was disease in the bronchial glands; suppuration had taken place in them, and a rge abscess had been confined in the inside of the chest, which pressed on the right c avian vein, and this caused the blood to stagnate in the veins in which it had its Ugin, and which had in consequence become varicose.” In another case, “ the super- nal veins otme chest and upper extremities were extensively varicose. * * * On ex- uning the body, a large medullary tumour was discovered within the chest, which bv TTwiVw the lower part of the trachea, and on the junction of the two subclavian od tolbrCted °nCe th” e/Dtra0Ce °f the air int0 the IunSs> and the return of the 3oa to tne superior vena cava. (pp. 159, 160.) )2:^K.el*ra'ly speaking, the superficial veins are most prone to become varicose, and t uall} those of the lower limbs. Hodgson saysThe only instance of varix nail iUPF!r ,Wlth whlch he was acquainted, is mentioned by Petit (c) • it was I “„J foar the Dunrno°se f ""’“c ^ £ti,ent WaS 80 fat that 110 °ther v«n could be | WhlCh °peratl0n PETIT heatedly performed by iV^LPEADTfvTiSLTnti0n-ed are alS0 examP,es’ though from different cause, th vari^sesweflingf. TTn P,™- the armS’ f°re-arms, and hands covered e jaw and the£FcUvlZ*™85 °f mnceS as b'S as the fist> between the angle of e edge of thc^orbit^n nV(r!id,.ln ay°unS man> * varix as large as the thumb under jittal suture which b i l an(^ a Pretty large one, in a man, upon the course of the W £ I nmli h° COn:,? £°“ the ^ong‘tudinal sinus. And he mentions Rut ti ,i ° as . thumb, beneath the tongue, (p. 420.) | en within The 'greata£TeTor?}Vtal'\S° !}f^Cted’ as ln the instances just cited I lomas’s Hosnitaf ?^ 1 of the trunk. I have also very recently seen in St. -reART's liga^nt as bigTs ,of lh« Wal vein, immediately below ' which it might’have be^ TV P,?Ti S eg&and ln the seat of femoral rupture, scribed ink“i?.i__v been ea?,]y mistaken. Hodgson also says:—“Mr. Cline 30ribed in l»* 1° ’’T coonjr illlJjUlKCJn. HOD ck‘ which biTsuTdTrovedTataflT V™” ?vho had a l;irge pulsating tumour in her ffinlar vein. The carotid -in/ y baimorrhage. A sac proceeded from the internal !=•” (p. 539.) I n! a e.r00ve at the posterior part of this fseum at St. Thomas’s which T th.at,thls ,s the brief history of a preparation in the “) Above Cite/ ^lch preC1Sely corresponds with the account.-J. F. S.l (6) On Aneurism (Translation.) VOL. II. -p , \u) uu aneurism ( t,c) lraite des Maladies Chirurg., vol.ii. p. 49.'TREATMENT 290 1593 The cure of varix first requires the removal of the cause wind, hinders the circulation in the veins ; and this done, it frequently_disapp|*j of Self. Obstructions in the bowels must be got rid of, the mode oi livino- nroperly regulated, continual standing, and the like, for nddeu. The most proper remedy, if after the removal of the causes the knots dc the most 1 i depend on local weakness, is the suitable conipret zr^sllsM***** *• «f "'"ichtis •*** Z employment at the same time of strengthening contracting remedies A ra ieal cure thereby is rarely effected, for when the compression » removed, the swellings of the veins, a*- and varicose ulcers return. ,i t„ ...,,,, v cases where the disease is limited, you may apply meiylp [Brodie says --- In ™y r which will answer the purpose perfectly, pvm. a partial bandage ot aahes e p > u. for example, only two or tbre the patient scarcely “J/”“”e0”“eed not trouble the patient with a complete band.g. >«,“»ttrZiS s ™£en” *' *» across the varicose vessels, and a the plaster is not thrown into fold.* comp, with a little soap cerate, e extensively varicose, this partial compre*M0. ^^not b^suffiSent^mid you^ too'mnch h«ii Calico, flannel, or stockmg-web roller; the weak vessels. Lace cloth, or spiral wire are sometimes use, but the latter two are objectionable on1 accountt of*ehea^ bed inthe recun If the varicose veins become inflamed, “^ed . aud occasiouall bent posture, have cold lotions app ie , an which Brodie gives the followin it may be necessary to over the "veins ; they shoal wards.” (p. 173.)] _ . , 1 1524. In order to effect a radical cure of varices y c osure u1 of blood, and by obliteration of the vein, various earliest times been proposed. First, puncture ; second, incismn, j»m extirpation ; fourth, tying ; fifth, cutting througJ1f Sl* ^ap£terai cop caustic; seventh, piercing with needles or thieads, eigh , ouH n frirravatiou of the disease, in addition to the danger oitj mg I I sion of the veins. . . ,, ^mosed 1 1525. Puncture of the varix with a lancet (ancicn > 1 j ippocitATBS) must especially be employed in vanees largely UM Hippocrates) must especially be employed („) OrrENUKiM's ZelUchrift Krdie gcaammte Medicin, vol. xxii. pt. »•OF VAltlX. 291 | oagulated blood, as well also as in those which are very painful, inflamed jj nd much expanded; and, after the removal of the blood, pressure, j igether with cold applications and the horizontal posture are to be em- it loyed. 1526. In cases of larger size and greater extent, the skin and the vein j uist be cut into, by an incision two inches long, upon the largest not, the escaping blood kept back with the finger, the cavity of the vein lugged with sponge or lint introduced into it, and the bleeding stanched yr the application of compresses and circular bandages. If the varicose tpansion be only on the leg, one cut is sufficient; if it extend to the middle the thigh, one cut is to be made above the ankle, a second close above e knee, and if the whole thigh be affected, a third cut is to be made at [ual distance. The limb is then to be bandaged, and cold applications to used for some days. Inflammation takes place in the vein which so reads from the principal to the other varix, that a greater degree of asticity arises in them, and the neighbouring varices disappear (a). 1527. In some very prominent knots, or even in swellings formed by e agglomeration of various veins, extirpation, (cirsotomia,) originally oposed by Celsus, has been practised. In the separate knots, the skin, movable, should be cut through in a single fold, so that the cut may ach from above to below, over the knot, which is then to be raised with e hook, separated, and cut off above and below. If the skin be ad- rent, it must be taken away as well as the knot. In the same manner e large swellings are to be treated, and the divided vein tied at its per and lower end ; or, if the position permit it, the bleeding is to be inched by pressure (5). 1528. Tying (proposed anciently by Aetius and Paulus AEgineta) to be performed in varix of the lower extremity, on the principal ink of the saphenous vein, above the swollen part, which is to be laid re ) a suitable cut through the skin, freed from cellular tissue, and the ;ature carried round it with a probe ; after which, pressure is to be ‘ pt up in the horizontal posture (c). Ricokd (d) removes the sub- igneous connexion of the vein, lifts up the vein in a fold of the skin, d thrusts a suture needle, armed with a double thread, through the skin land the vein, then lets go the vein, without leaving hold of the skin, d carries the needle back through the same holes reversed above the * in, so that the vessel is caught in a subcutaneous loop, both ends of which mg held together at the same wound in the skin, are tied on a piece elastic bougie as in the quill suture. In a similar way, but with two ips, the subcutaneous tying may be performed, according to Tavignot’s a Jthod. (par. 1432.) SvSf/ 7ing.£e saphenous vein was revived by Sir Everard Home, for o .f hr eg,Leither W,.th or without ulcers; and he stated (e), “that in the size- and^alffh1" the °P®ratl011’ the veins in general were very much diminished „ -n thVee Vhe»CKSeS thC U CCrs put on a much more healthy appearance in less 3red to nrevenH?er ^ TT°n> and from that time, where no circumstance oc- | prevent it, went on healing like ulcers in healthy parts.” (p. 330.) It, however, (d) Du Traitement des Varices par la Ligature sous cutanee des Veines ; in Bullet, general do I heraneutiaue. .Tulv 183Q. Second P Graefk, in his Introduction to C. Bell's _ j j oyKIl» train'- des Maladies Chirurgicales, vl citedI!I;L’'-a,IX>Vv, Cited' P- 91— Hodoson, - « cued, p. ooO.—Moulinik, J. Therapeutique. July, 1839 (e) Practical . , Observations on Ulcers. Edit. 8vo. 1801. u 2292 TREATMENT happened ^,t.t^^^a^™“j’^^^^e'ngap!^^fa^an<opera?io™™f UdB Wnial^ ru 5$*3£5!£&3U «s— »it "“I.*»-*1 apprehend, few persons who would now venture on performing it.-J. F. S ] 1529 Solera practised cutting through the vein above and n ow the knot above the knee and low on the leg ; he made a longitudinal cut by J the ’ide of the vein, cut through the vein, and prevented its union by he , .. f i:nt Brodie(o) makes the subcutaneous division of the “ 1. S a !!., very pointed, slightly-curvedb jloury, flat o^the side of the vein, between it and the an, and, cuts through the vein without wounding the skin, lhe biecumg tt.1 stanched by pressure. h^fmmtrlfo'perated F “ With my appears to me that, in ordinary cases, 1 smaller ones appeared, one on each however, is proper where there is a varicosefe by having recourse to it: and “dp “SSJXth^h clusters L or are pot likely to to. afterwards.” (pp* 189, 90.)] # 1 The application of the actual cautery (according to Lelsus, upon thelnot SS a it Ihrough the S ^VtoirMchlhe, ^ rise 0); butfl,. ■ feittr strrVe s?ssr%£ - needles after Da vat’s method, and ETfroriep vein, after laying it bare with a cu , extremity with com- nverlavs very large expanded veins of the lower extre y . presses moistened with concentrated, not smoking nitric acid, t' < ' Ernes erysipelatous, and the swelling firm and painful, and repeats, it after the subsidence of these symptoms, till the cuie. s ’[ (i) Mayo (d) has also recommended the use of caustic potosK or a caus epa on me sub-cutaneous venous trunks of the leg in cakes ofvan* T'm ven , ^ ^ "is often tender during several days, for the extent ofthree or tha„ place at which the caustic is applied. The obstructed part d trvone in half an inch to an inch in length. I have it? employing this practice.” (p.433.) Brodie, how etc , , . sloueh took» he says :—“ The application of the caustic potash was vei > p > cpister w'15 wlimeto separate; the sore took a lon? time to cured, other clusters appeared. Altogether it was a very tedious process, an experience does not lead me to recommend it. (.p. 18. ■)] . r_Jnces- 1531. The introduction of needles through the walls of n• i tin pi ‘ either only slight irritation of the vein and the formation of^ rf fills its area, and finally causes its obliteration ; or, witl and their irritation of the opposite points of tl.e internal co^ of the > simultaneous contact, produces its obliteration. In the^ * 1 i (a') Above cited. . (i>) Archives generates de Mcdecine. 1839. June, Dunvini v.in.iug.—. August, 1839 Outlines of Human Pathology. (c) Bulletin Chirurgical. (<o ‘ "293 OF VARIX. II pin (an insect-pin) is to be carried transversely through the vein, and eft there for from two to six days with rest, and corresponding dietetic reatment of the patient. On the second day swelling around the pin >egins, which is caused partially by the clot formed in the vein, partially iy the slight inflammatory process set up in, and around it. The swelling ncreases on the following days, becomes at the wound, more rarely hroughout its whole extent, of a pale rosy-red colour, and at the same ime the vessel, as well as its neighbourhood, without pain on pressure, eels more compact. The earlier this appearance sets in, the sooner may the pin be removed. With small veins one pin is sufficient; but in he larger it is better to introduce two or three, in which case the one rings the front, the other the hind wall of the vessel nearer together, nd the third is thrust through the middle of the vein. Experience is Strongly in favour of the symptoms ensuing, and of the results arising rom this mode of treatment (a). In the second proceeding, a pin is to >e thrust transversely under the vein, which is to be raised up by it, so that : second pin may be thrust through it twice, in the longitudinal direction. Vith this object a second pin generally straight or curved, round or Lattened, is introduced through the skin and vein, about a line below the lace where the transverse pin cuts the axis of the vessels, carried up- wards beneath that pin, and thrust from within outwards through the vein 8 nd skin—the two pins, forming a cross, are to be surrounded with a thread, i )ne pin may be also thrust transversely through the skin and vein, and a thread twisted round it, like a figure of QO. The pin is to be left till it ^ave excited inflammation (about five days.) The little fistulous wound oon heals. This mode of treatment should be prefei'red before all the 1st, on account of its slightness, of its less pain and danger, and the cer- inty of the cure (h). Experience, however, shows that wide and deep- reading phlegmonous inflammation, with fever, redness of the tongue, oty colour of the teeth, irritation of the mucous membrane of the amach, swelling of the inguinal glands, extensive suppuration, and even ath may ensue from this practice (c). According to Franc (r/), the n should be thrust through the skin near the vein, carried behind it, rust out at the other side, and a thread wound around it. Two days are fficient to produce complete obliteration of the vein (1). Fricke (e) troduces, with a moderately strong needle, one, and, in great varicosity, yeral threads dipped in oil through the vein, and ties the ends upon the in in a bow. In from twenty-four to thirty-six hours the threads are n be removed, the patient kept quiet, without any dressing, and, on the ippearance of inflammation, cold water or lead wash are to be applied. 183G, p. (e) Mi en par- Ilambur (/) Lcjohs Orates. Hamburg. Zeitsch, vol. i. pt. i. p. 12.’294 TREATMENT OF VARIX. . , , . , „ T W1 pomino- to an end. Unfortunately, at last it came.” A patient judge what fear I Fad of it commg to an cn^^ ^ ^ Jwere removed on the sixth, was operated on by hm U£ature’s on the following day, the tied parts being scarred, and the other two, w t g • > nipht, however, he was attacked with and the patient free from p • . nausea aud vomiting; and on the following intermitting shivenngs aceomp j • j extended next day up the thigh, and where morning the leg was livid spots appeared the ligatures hadbeen “PgjJ ,th^“e Srious, had continual tremors, and weak on diiierent face had become purple, the lips dry, and he quick pulse. On ttejcmte 7 snots appeared on the inside of the arms, and was very comatose . large I PP limb which had been operated on ,he liad been tied had not been perfectly obliterated, (pp. 442, 43). j l been tiea nau. uui uecu y*.*- , 1532 Lateral compression of the vein (according o reschets practice in Varicocele) has been performed by Sanson (a) by means of forceps between which a pair of metal plates, fifteen lines long .covered with leather, which compressed the vein, raised up in a.fold ofsk.msvfa cientlv to prevent the blood circulating through it. The forceps are to be frequently applied at different places, so that no slough should be formed^ A plug* of blood is thus produced, which stops up the vein. 1533 In reviewing these different modes of treatment for the radica curi of mriritmusfbe remembered that in all those accompanied^ wound of the vein, there is danger of venous inflammation arising,!' nc 1 sOTeadswidely^and causes death. This is the more important, as persons> who are subiect to varix have, for the most part, accompanying gouty or rhja SlitSlns stoppage, and fulness in .he in the venous system at the same time, whence they are the more tn.posai to such inflammations ; so that it must not be “V^^diUons “‘often nf the causal relations of varix to such general diseased conditions, it oueu beiot^s‘‘‘the relative well-being of the patient, and never6 be nndemhe, without careful review of the patient’s general condition and never wi^ “ important reason, and pressing demand. -In old persons i has . J benefit. Puncture is least dangerous; but, in regard to its h radical cure, very uncertain. Tying and .nets,on most• frilly dangerous inflammation; less so do extirpation a ,. • )gam. threads. But even in the latter seemingly triflmg proving, mation of a very severe degree may ensue, though less after ^ introduction of the needle or thread, (Kun, Fricke,) than i - vdn aJ the same time, (Davat, Franc and others ) in ^ lation through it is entirely arrested. In this respect the sir pression of the vein, after Sanson’s plan, deserves especial notice, if observation should prove the certain closure of the vein thereby. i;f 1 1 I (a) Gazette Medicate, 1836. Feb. Hamburg. Zeitsch., vol. ii. pt. ii. P -’>0’ l a»R,‘-ps ^ isch. Kupfertaf., pi. ccclxxxvi.[ 295 ] II.—OF VARICOCELE. >i Varicocele, Cirsocele. Lat.; Krampfaderbrucli, Saamenaderbruch, Saamenader- geschwulst, Germ.; Varicocele, Fr.) H Richter, Observations chirurgicse, fuse. ii. p. 22. .dim)., Anfangsgriinde der Wundarzneikunde, vol. vi. p. 165. Murray resp. Bonsdore, Dissert, de cirsocele. Upsal, 1784. Leo, F., Dissert, de cirsocele. Landish, 1S26. enedict, Ueber Hydrocele, Sarcocele und Varicocele. Leipzig, 1831. Landouzy, above cited. Fritscui, J., Ueber die Radicalkur der Phlebectasia spermatica interna oder sogenn. sricocele, u. s. w. Freiburg, 1839. 1534. Varicocele or Cirsocele is a varicose expansion of the veins of e spermatic cord, and in a more advanced state of those also of the epidi- tmis and testicle. The disease always commences in the spermatic cord, d generally makes itself known by a heavy, often smart pain, which 3tn time to time darts to the testicle and loins; the ailment, however, aquently develops itself without any inconvenience. An irregular elling, consisting of several threads, is felt along the course of the ermatic cord, which diminishes on slight compression. In proportion the swelling gradually increases, it approaches nearer the testicle, which larges, and becomes heavier ; by degrees the varicose condition extends the epididymis, and thence to the testicle itself, which is loosened into soft, doughy mass, and presents only a convolution of expanded vessels, obably simultaneous thickening of their walls, and of the cellular tissue nnecting them. The purse also is expanded, and the patient feels a mblesome or painful weight in the testicle, which sensation extends to e loins, especially when it has existed a long time. The characteristic *ns of varicocele are the ready disappearance of the swelling on com- ession, its quick reappearance when the pressure is withdrawn, as well its increase on long-continued standing. As these appearances belong ruptures, and as in a large varicocele the swelling enters the abdominal ig. by which it is enclosed, and its condition, when touched, has resem- ance to that of omental rupture, the history of the disease, and the maracters already described (j?ar. 1200) must give the diagnosis. The words cirsocele and varicocele are used with different significations. Many riters apply the former only to a simple swelling of the superficial veins of the purse; it the second to a swelling of the spermatic veins. Some employ varicocele iu this •uble acceptation, and cirscocele as a swelling of the vessels of the epididymis and tes- ,i de: again, others consider both designations as of similar import. According to Breschet (a) spermatocele is a swelling of the spermatic cord, and es- cially of the epididymis, depending on retention of the semen. It begins with a nsation of pressure, distension, and more or less severe pain. If the semen be not iided by pollution or by connexion, inflammation, bursting of the swelling, and actual ■tula ensues, which is characterized by the escape of the semen (1). This affection of the •ididymis is especially observed in gonorrhoea, and the swelling of the testicle ensuing proportion to the decrease and entire cessation of the gonorrhoea, which always begins the epididymis, depends on the retention of the semen. In this spermatocele, connexion, oderate living, avoidance of exciting the imagination, cold washes to the generative •gans, and, in inflammation, the application of leeches are to be recommended. In >tula nothing can be done directly. 1(1) Spermatocele is often a sore nuisance to young people; the testicle become so tceedingly tender that the mere pressure of the dress upon it causes great pain. It is 't generally accompanied, at least in the cases I have seen, with much swelling and I tve never seen it followed by suppuration, as Breschet states. But I have known it («) Oliservationg et Reflexions sur la Fistule spermatique on Spermatocele; in Journal general > Medecme, 18J6, June, p. 348.VA11IC0CELE. 296 recur very frequently, at intervals of two or three months, for as many years betlen sixteen and two or three and twenty. I do not believe it will have usually the r«ul,s stated - but it is a most troublesome and annoying complaint, compiling the patieai to keen himself completely at rest, and is not very easily controlable Keeping the bowls free and avoiding excitement of all kinds, bodily or mental, with a cool dressing, and supporting the testicles with a suspensory bandage, is almost all that can lie done, aud that not of much benefit. Usually after a time it is outgrown, and the disposition to it ceases^—J. F. S.] . . JKH 1535 The causes of varicocele are various, though in some cases often not at all determinable. For the most part it depends on weakness of the spermatic veins, produced by great congestion in consequence of venerul 1 * or from long-continued libidinous appetite, or alter excesses, OlianiMii, — — ** r :x ii . previous inflammation of the testicle, from obstructed return of the blood In persons of sedentary habits, in swellings and costiveness of the bowels, from a truss pressing the spermatic cord, from particular employm*! and so on. The disease occurs more frequently on the left than on tfagfl rio-ht side, the ground of which is to be sought for in various causes (lg Sometimes it is accompanied with hemorrhoidal inconvenience Ihel disease is most commonly noticed in young persons, from fifteen to tbfrM years of age, rarely in older people. In many cases, however, the ®t«*» lo«y of this disease is quite obscure, and it is indeterminable what the above-mentioned causes have on its origin. The complaint, often renmuM in a slight degree stationary, although, on account of the mode of_h™n| and employment of the patient, its increase is on every ground to $ fe f i?Mmt derive this disease from pressure of the sigmoid flexure of the color, ™ the an obstacle, as the two streams do not take the Xo^eencharged^-'Ch it,°as well* by he enlargement of the swelling are produced swellings of he ^ the purse, inconvenience from its weight, and not unfrequently co^ able pain, especially on long-continued standing, or any o t and even the impossibility of walking without a suspender. ~ there is also a greater secretion of the scrotal skin Where a of the disease, with violent pain and speedy wasting of the test been observed, (Pott, A. Cooper,) it appears to depend less on cocele than on another and indeed traumatic influence iti 1537. The treatment of varicocele must principally depend and when this is known, it must be removed according to ■ cause, and when this is kiiowu, re , the pursbl general rules laid down. In a trifling degree of the disease, in F ^ may be supported by means of a well-fitting suspender ;; and hyt! Sed use, during the day, of cold astringen application of solution of alum, aromatic decoctions, frequent washings wi • ~j{nerali. dies or with cold water and spirits of wine, or h J ^ t( IIoffm., naphtha, and so on ; even blisters may be appliedl to 1 tim, incmae"the contractility of the part. The pa,tent must at the same (a) UtLi’Ecii, Precisclcmentaire, vol. in. p 266.TREATMENT 297 ?oid all exertion, constant standing, and walking; and especially lie ust properly, regulate his living. In most cases, however, the inconve- ence of the patient is only lessened, and a check given to the progress r the disease. 1538. In the more advanced state of varicocele, if it cause considerable convenience or be connected with rupture, various modes of treatment ive been proposed with a view to the radical cure, as extirpation of e varicose vessels, tying all (1), or a single bundle of the swollen lins (2), tying the spermatic artery (3), carrying through threads or ;edles, or a simultaneous surrounding of the latter with threads (4), cision of a part of the purse or its inclusion in a ring (5), the en- eathing of the skin of the purse (6), and the continuance of pressure by eans of a compressor or a pair of forceps (7). (1) According to Celsus the superficial veins were cauterized with a pointed iron, d the whole bundle of deep veins tied and extirpated. In the same way have Pare, bister, Petit, Cumano, Key, and others, proceeded with some modification, in lich they have only removed the veins, or even the testicle itself. (2) Charles Bell considered the separate tying of one or more venous strings suffi- ;nt. The veins are to be laid bare by a longitudinal cut through the skin and neral scrotal covering, one of the largest venous strings grasped with the fingers, oarated and tied with a thread. When this disease is very large, two and even three •ings must be tied; and the wound closed. The ligatures separate in a few days. Delpech (a) divides the skin by a cut of two inches long, parallel to the spermatic rd, cuts through the m. cremaster and sheath with the forceps and bistoury, raises e vein from the rest, isolates it, passes under each a piece of thick soft German ider, and then puts a single ligature on the latter. The ligature is only to be drawn i as merely to bring the walls of the vein together, and prevent the flow of blood rough it; whereupon great swelling of the varicose vein ensues. The wound is to lightly filled with lint and covered with a softening poultice. The ligature is to be noved on the third day. Delpech has noticed, after the performance of this opera- m, the restoration of the function of the testicle. Tavignot’s subcutaneous ligature in the way already mentioned, {par. 1432.) (•3) Maunoir, (6), Brown (c), Amussat (d) and Jameson (e), have tied the spermatic tery successfully, but Graefe (f) without success. According to Maunoir, the t should be made half an inch long, below the abdominal ring in the course of the rd, its sheath opened, the artery separated, a double ligature applied, and the ssel divided between them. If the varicocele exist in such degree that simultaneous '""ning of the spermatic cord and testicle expand the scrotum to a large swelling, this ceding is more difficult, and it would be better to make, close above the external dominal ring, a cut two inches long, obliquely upwards and outwards, to cut through b outer walls of the inguinal canal, to open the sheath of the exposed spermatic cord th a shallow incision, and carefully to separate the artery. In this case it must not overlooked that the spermatic artery also divides below the external ring (g). (4) According to Fricke a part of the purse should be grasped with the left hand, that one of the expanded veins may be found between the fingers, upon which with !s xunmoii needle the skin and vein are to be pierced obliquely, and a thread intro- “ced which is to be tied upon the skin. This operation, which may be repeated on e or two other veins, is easily performed and little painful. The purse should be pt horizontal and supported on a pillow. If, on the next day, redness of the skin ' d sensibility of the testicle occur, the thread is to be withdrawn. The swelling adually subsides, and the veins are converted into solid strings, free from pain. According to Kuh (A) every single vein of the plexus, on both sides of the purse, is be grasped with the fingers and perforated with a needle, each needle to be en- eathed in a proper cork, and the purse supported with compresses or a suspender. .«) Memorial lies Ilopitaux du Midi, 1830.— lrnalvoN Graefe u. Wai.tiier, vol. xvii. p. 329. . .. ..... million^ rui. Am. p, d Nouvolle Mi-diode de traiter le Sarcocole, * avoir recours a l'extirpation du testicule. etc. extirpation du testicule, etc. "eve, 1820.—Journal von Graefe und Wai.- vol. iii. p. 360. (c) New York Medical and Pliys. Journal, 1824, March. (d) La Clinique des Hopitaux, vol. iii. No. 82. Medical Recorder, 1825, April, p. 271. /) Klini8clier Jaliresbericlit, 1822. tfl) Dietrich, above cited, p. 448. (/i) Above cited, p. 52.298 TREATMENT According to Davat and Franc (a), tlie varicose veins should be separated from the vas deferens and one or two needles thrust between them ; a waxed thread is to he . twisted several times round such needles, and tied fast, by which the vein is constricted and obliterated Fuanc believes that two days, and even a shorter period, is sufficient » •» P™'«e complete ' but that he applies • 'aivides the spermatic cord till the skin alone remains IndMdedfwhfch/atei the ligature has been drove out, is divided upon a director, and - should^pporuhe testicle like a suspender. By this mean, the varicocele » dunk I***isrutfr *w,lh*** Sh1^ SttS SnSySeoverii ,„h sdekiug pl*ttr « pressors, both for the swollen veins o 1 P ^ those of a recent date derived. . LZZv^'ubove cited.- Boons™; in Bulletin * ™"»~ vol. vii. pt. i. 1 539 Of these various modes of treatment for the radical cure cocelfboTaccording my own and Bresciiet as regards its easy employment, its applicabi j ^fstLes of thS disease, its certainty, and its freedom from danger, «£ be esteemed the most proper and the most prefeiable. x 111 ‘ •, testicle, and tying the whole bundle of veins, quently did not advise it(g). Tying the spermatic often scarcely possible, on account of its intimate cuiinex variet tones of the cord, without injuring them, and on account of the rare . of its ramifications uncertain in its result. Piercing l >e r eins ' j „r .Leads often risks the danger of success The introduction of one or several threads, or ot a - o below the bundle of veins, may also produce se'’^ cti( tedious, more painful, and consequently less favourable than 1 of bSschet (/,). The drawing into a ring, and cutting off Haps scrotal skin, are merely palliative. ((M 'Ste^Mrdicale, Deo. 1837.-FroiuKp’8, N Notizen. Febr. 1839* No. 93. (c) London Medical Gazette, 1838, April. [d) Guy’s Hospital Reporta, 1888, p , iboo, p , v:// - ’ (A) Dofreshk, above cited.—Lanoouzy, 0) I’r.-Vereinneitung, 1840, No- (/) Mcmoire sur unc noavelle ‘ Vuicoef- trniter ct. do guerir lc Cirsoctdo * lu ;i l'Academie dos Sciences le 13 J» (</) llKt.i., Cbari.ks, vol. i. P-y-’-OP VARICOCELE. 299 il 1540. In order to include all the veins, in the operation after Breschet’s o >thod, the patient must walk about for some hours previously in sum- >r, and in winter keep in a very warm bed, by which the veins are filled th blood. The purse is to be shaved, and the patient placed in front of j operator, who with his left hand grasps the right side of the purse, th the fore and middle finger behind, and the thumb in front, with its on the septum, whilst the two fingers support the testicle; the finger tthe right hand is to be applied to the left side of the purse, so that the gers may touch. The vas deferens is now to be found, which is easily lie, in consequence of its position at the back of the cord, its string-like iracter, its equal thickness (that of a crow quill,) throughout, its hard- s but elasticity, and by its peculiar painfulness when pressed. The vas ferens is now to be kept back with the finger and thumb against the iturn, whilst the veins are drawn out from it with the same fingers the right hand, in doing which especial care must be taken that not a gle vein remain with the vas deferens. The penis is to be kept by an istant lying upwards upon the belly, for the purpose of preserving on its der surface a sufficient length of skin, so as to prevent painful distension the often recurring erections. The compressing forceps are then to be Dlied, first the upper as high as possible on the purse, though at suffi- nt distance from the penis as not to produce excoriation ; the under one if an inch below the first, without, however, touching the testicle. The ceps are applied so across, that their arms grasp nearly the whole adth of the left side of the purse, up to the septum, that the vas defe- s remains unenclosed, and only the outer edge of the purse, to the rl ;adth of from two to three lines, without the veins, is contained in the d ice between the arms of the forceps, and when they are closed is not a ieezed. The arms of the forceps are now closed as tightly as possible Ih a screw, then by means of more violent pressure on a narrower i ice, a concealed plate on the upper arm is pushed forwards next the screw t. the septum, and then that on the other arm screwed tight. The patient i then put to bed, the forceps kept against the belly by long strips of 2 eking plaster, and the purse supported with a cloth or with a ball of t. rhe same method serves for the left side, on which varicocele is most frequent, as t described for the right side, only the position of the hands is reversed. ?or the above described compressing forceps, and their mode of application, see Lan- ;zy, f. 1,2, 3. Breschet’s original forceps, their improvement by a movable plate, f iffect pressure on three sides. I have employed the latter always with the best result. • 1541. In the first hours after the operation, the patient feels a sharp >n in the purse and in the groin, but this subsides. Applications of f ^'-wasli are to be made to the purse. When on the second or third day if J forceps become loose, the plate is to be screwed tighter, which, if it ' now only as at first properly done, does not cause much pain. When ' Sppuration ensues, between the fifth and sixth days, the forceps are to be Roved, and the remaining suppurating parts treated simply. If painful •etions of the penis take place, which are most surely prevented by eping the penis against the belly during the application of the forceps su scquently, which I have never practised in my operations, small v o camphor, with nitre, may be employed. The time necessary for ',<ines between three and six weeks. It is advisable, for some uns alter the cure, to wear a well-fitting suspender, and to use the lfl bath and lead washes.[ 300 ] HI. OF HEMORRHOIDS OR PILES. Haemorrhoids, Lat.; Hcemorrhoidalgeschwulste, Germ.; H&norrholdes, Fr. Theden, Chirurgische Wahrnehmungen, vol. i. p. 56. Richter, Anfungsgriinde, vol. vi. p. 393. Abernethy, Surgical Works, vol. ii. p. 231. New Edition. 181.). Kirby, J., Observations on tlie Treatment of certain severe forms of Hemorrhoids s Excrescence. Dublin, 1823. 8vo 1 i Copeland, T., Observations on the principal Diseases of the Rectum and Anus Loudon, 1814. 8vo. Whyte, W., Observations on Strictures of the Rectum and other Affections, et Third Edit. Bath, 1820. 8vo. Howship J., Practical Observations on the symptoms, discrimination, and m-atmo , of the most common Diseases of the Lower Intestines and Anus, etc. London, J8^» 8vo. i-J Dupuytren, De l’Excisiou des Bourrelets He'morrhoidaux; in Lemons Orales i Chirurgie Clinique, vol. i. p. 339. Brodie, Sir Benjamin, On Haemorrhoids; in London Medical Gazette, voL r 1835. J Bushe, George, M. D., A Treatise on the Malformations, Injuries, and Dise»f of the Rectum and Anus. New York, 1837. 8vo. Syme, James, On the Diseases of the Rectum. Edinburgh, 1838. 8vo. 1542. Hemorrhoids or Piles are varicose expansions of the veins inti lower part of the rectum, in which, by the collection of blood in the vessels, unnatural bags and sacs of different size, fiom that of a peat that of a walnut, are produced. These swellings are commonly calkA blind piles, (Hcemorrhoides ccecce,) to distinguish them from flowing^ (Hcemorrhoides fiuentes, apertce)-, they swell periodically, and as?, become lax, so that only the empty bags remain. If they have consul** able size, they are called sac piles (Hcemorrhoides saccate) ; it sma;, tubercular piles (Tubercula hcemorrhoidalia.) The blood coagulates .) the sacs often into a hard mass, so that a firm swelling is formed. Only when these swellings are not very large, may they be formed simply by exp sion of the walls of the veins; but if they be of greater size, the blood is poured;. beneath the inner coat of the rectum, and expands it into a sac; hence the large « which the swellings often attain. It often happens that in cutting them off little or bleeding occurs, and it is then distinctly perceived that they consist only » They have also frequently a peculiar form, which yarn cannot so e i ) 1 This is proved, especially by Kirby’s careful observations, viz., that these exc do not consist of expanded veins, but of a sac-like lengthening of the thi^enesl ^ tissue, surrounded with some veins, and covered with the integuments of the tissue, surrounded with some veins, and covered with the integuments of the foldedmn . of the anus. The veins are branches of the internal iliac In every case of .mm piles the structure was the same, but the veins appeared wider, and were of the tremorrhoidal vein. Brodie, on the contrary, asserts that ln al! found the luemorrhoidal knots only as expanded veins. In those of mge more indeed than simple expansion of the veins is found, as there is effusion of J® and thickening in the neighbourhood of the expanded vein. 1543. These swellings are often seated on the outer edge of the or on the inside of the rectum, in the region of the m. sphincter 1544. The consequences resulting from piles are, suppuration, discharges of mucus from the rectum, and cornu f bleeding. If these swellings attain a large size, if, on going • ( the piles within the rectum be protruded, they are often grasped jTREATMENT. 301 , rture of the anus, swell considerably, are protuberant, and very . nful. The pain often spreads over the whole belly, and the patient Is extremely painful tenesmus; the piles even become gangrenous. If y go on to suppuration, in which case syphilitic causes are mostly in ,Jy, suppuration may easily spread into the loose cellular tissue of the tuni, producing great destruction and fistula. Not unfrequently do ;e piles become converted into a hard fleshy mass, and even into cancer. Bushe has detailed an awful account of the symptoms of piles, most of which, how- ■, result from the constitutional excitement they produce when inflamed, and are i occasionally very severe. The local symptoms are well described by him :—“A feel- of weight in the loins, hips, and groins ; dull throbbing pain in the rectum, attended 1 a sense of increasing heat, tenesmus, mucous discharge, and occasional darting sen- ms, resembling those of electricity; itching of the anus, and finally painful, dif- It, and frequent micturition.”—(p. 140.) Frequently the loss of even a small quantity of blood,” observes Bushe, “ re- ?s the feeling of weight and tension in the perinceum, rectum, and lower part of the ;, as well as any other disagreeable symptoms which may have existed. The amount uemorrhage, however, is not always in proportion to the severity of the symptoms )ting the loaded state of the hmmorrhoidal vessels—the quantity being sometimes f great, though not preceded by well-marked premonitory signs ; while, in other s, the discharge of blood is trifling, notwithstanding the fluxionary movement may 2 been well marked. Generally it ceases after a few days; yet not unfrequently it inues for months. In some instances it occurs but once in life ; again, it may re- in the course of a few weeks, months, or even years. Occasionally it assumes a adical character, returning with the season or the month. The amount of blood varies; a drachm, an ounce, or even a pint may be discharged at a time, though it t be confessed, that the admixture of other fluids is apt to impose, upon the mex- enced, the belief that the loss of blood is much greater than it reallv is” 146, 147.)] J ' 545. The causes of heemorrhoids, besides predisposition, which is •ibed, to walking upright, to the difficult flow of the blood into the tal system, which is unprovided with valves, to hereditary habit, to the flow of blood into the abdominal organs in advanced old ao-e* stoppages and costiveness of the intestines, much sitting, pressure°of pregnant womb, local irritation of the rectum from hard stools and itinual riding, or of the neighbouring parts ; for instance, of the bladder j urinary stone, and so on. . 546. The treatment of haemorrhoids is various, according to the % ^"ftances in which they are found. If they be inflamed, cooliim " ledies must be employed, cream of tartar with sulphur, leeches to the I mourn, cold applications; and if these cannot be borne, mild ointment b 1 soothing fomentations. If the inflammation result from straugula- II of the piles, their return must be attempted with the finger oiled'’ the lent, icing placed with his rump raised high, and all pressure removed ; it this be not easily effected, to empty them with a simple lancet cut. toey suppurate, the abscess must be soon opened to prevent burrowin°- of : pus, and if the ulceration depend on a syphilitic affection, the proper mrirb ^?Tral r?TdieS must be employed. If the bleeding from the orrhoKlal vessds be very severe, so that the patient is much weakened ttru««te-e,!t auSered’ reSt and the horizontal position, best on a hard LS5 “ ? be recommended ; internally, milfoil or other astringent wine ’ n e.rna ty’ cold hip-baths, cold water with vinegar or spirits ■ ne, cold decoctions of astringent vegetables, or solution of alum and th S TrP!0yed 518 ln'lections int0 the rectum, or as fomentations i blperlin i 1 IUSe means be not of use, and the danger pressing, ng must be stopped by plugging in the way described {par. 934.)302 TREATMENT 1547. If the piles produce by their size or hardening constant incon- venience bloodv, mucous, or purulent discharges exhausting the patient’s powers, continual pain, and the like, if they be external to the rectum, , or project at every time of going to stool, and prevent the discharge oi ,j: the motions, their removal is indicated. It is, however, to be remein-» bered that after the destruction of the piles by the reflection of mflagprff: mation upon the other veins, their tone is raised, and thus in part tl« (t. cause of the luemorrhoids is removed. Where, however, they are a • healthy habitual emptying, or when they have causal relations with ej incurable diseases, as, for example, phthisis pulmnnahs, we must be can-• tious with their removal; it must either be not undertaken at all, or, a' ; least, all the piles must not be removed at once. . 1« 1548 Extirpation of the haemorrhoids has been proposed in tbreml different ways. First. A ligature to be applied around the base of the*' whole swelling, and this gradually, and not at once, tightened, till thrtP knots have fallen off (1). Second. The external skin of the pile is t<; be divided with a cut down to its base, and separated on both sides fron^ the under-lying skin, which is to be cut off with scissors. I he advantage, of this practice is, that the remaining external skin covers the seat of tta# vein, and prevents the bleeding. Third. The pile is to be grasped w.tl A the forceps, drawn forwards and cut off with scissors in such wayttadjj some still remains on the base, by which the wound is partially covered In external hemorrhoids, the cut is to be made in the parts below tk svhincter. The entire surface of the wound retracts into the rectum, amG by the action of the sphincter is contracted, whence the j bleedina- is very much diminished. If the wound be retracted above th e sphincter, internal bleeding may take place. This practice is ea>J> . J preferable to the others, as after the ligature there is often severe _pam] Inflammation, vomiting,’retention of urine, and so on; an the ,«i , the external, and the ^traction of the internal skin, .s always d (fled, ,1 and in many cases, on account of their union, impossible. Ihe la^« hHemorrhoids, also, are mostly formed by effusion of blood beneath thjj internal coat of the rectum m Rousseau J. C. (a), passes a needle with two threads of different the anus outwards, through the swelling; then two-thirds of an inch fart er >ae from without to the anus, thus leaving between the stitches a loop of thre: , , • | ong, and thus carries it around the whole swelling. He then cute through heU^ Sue colour to the outer, and that of the other on the .nncw side towar^ the «t Tn this way is each part of the swelling surrounded with a bgature, which drawn tight, and cut off short. If the swelling be large, the ^d parpen become insensible, is to be removed, but not too close to the ligatu . “SSSS lb. of .he ^..^,1! ‘! •<*"* .%»»??.??“ . * riece of wood so as to compress the anus between the two pessaries. shonld , P fCorEL\ND and Brodie lay down as a general rule that^ internal pnta ^ ^ removed by ligature. Bushe also prefers tins mode, and sajs^ ^ performed ft, I^am sure, upwards of a hundred times, and ^ |ia;car^^r ve, symptom follow it.” (p. 187.) And Syme observes^-';! sUgh«e risk of serious or alarming inconvenience, (p. 76.) It must not, now e , ; [hat seHous inconvenience and fatal results will, occasionally, follow .he aPPu<*» (a) Annual Medical Recorder, vol.ix.p.2«2. (.)) Memorial de la Clinique de Montpellier, 1830, 8ept. p. a-u.303 OF PILES. ligature to piles. Petit (a) mentions the case of a woman in whom, under very l ourable circumstances, he tied three piles, which at first did not cause much pain ; , five hours after, she was attacked with violent colicky symptoms, for which she was dfour times without benefit; the ligatures were then removed, the symptoms yielded, 1 the patient recovered. In another case related by Petit, five ligatures were applied once, inflammation and swelling of the belly, vomiting and hiccough ensued; the itures were removed, but the patient died. And he observes:—“ I compare these nptoms with those, accompanying a rupture, in which a small portion of intestine is uigulated; if this kind of rupture be not speedily relieved, the patients die, some- les in thirty or forty hours, of gangrenous inflammation of the whole belly, but par- ilarly of the intestines; thus this patient died before the conclusion of the second (p. 125.) Kikhy mentions two similar cases, one of which was scarcely saved, and other died of tetanus. Brodie relates two fatal cases after ligature, in one of ieh the patient died, “ in consequence of diffuse inflammation of the cellular mem- ,ue running up on the outside of the gut as high as the mesentery; but it was in a stitution broken down by long-continued haemorrhage, and in whom any slight ident might have produced equally bad consequences.” In the other case, the patient, ii week after the operation, and having been quite well in the interval, had an attack of n in the abdomen, and shivering attended with fever, and died. An examination of body not having been allowed, the precise cause of death was not ascertained.” p. 844. ‘ The safest and best way,” says Copeland, “ is to pass a ligature round one only of tumours at a time, the most painful and troublesome of them, and to wait until the ient has quite recovered from this operation before anything more be attempted, if 'thing more should be still necessary. * * * It is better that this operation by ligature uld be repeated two or three times, if it should become necessary, than that the ours should all be removed at once, at the imminent risk of the life of the patient.” 64, 5.) t is right that the day before the operation the patient’s bowels should be cleared h castor oil or rhubarb, which prevents the necessity for disturbing them for a few is afterwards. Brodie recommends that the piles should be well protruded by silting ver a pan of hot water, which will relax the sphincter muscle, and at the same time iilse the veins of the rectum to become filled with blood. If this be not sufficient, let the ient have a pint or two of warm water thrown up as an enema, and when that les away, the piles will probably descend. * * * Let the patient lean over a table, lie on one side in bed, with his knees drawn up, the nates being held apart by an stant. Each separate pile must be separately tied. If it be of a very small size, you jy just take it up, with a double tenaculum, draw it out. and tie a ligature round its e. But if the piles be of large size, a large curved needle, armed with a strong ble ligature, is to be introduced through the base of one of the piles, and the needle a cut off. The double ligature is now divided into two single ones, which are tied nd the base of the pile ; one on one side, and the other on the other, with a single )t. * * * When each pile is thus secured, cut off the convex portion of each pile, so b o make an opening into the cavity of the convoluted vein which forms it. Thus you i e off the tension produced in the pile by the blood which it contains, and are enabled t lraw the ligature tighter than before. It should be drawn as tight as possible; for r n the subsequent pain will be less, and the separation of the slough quicker. A ■ ‘ble knot having been made on each ligature, the threads are to be cut off close to 1 knots, and the piles, and the remains of the ligatures returned into the rectum. In >ut a week the ligatures are generally detached; and at this period the bowels should kept gently open with lenitive electuary and sulphur, and cold water be thrown up !■ rectum every morning, in order to prevent a recurrence of the disease.” (p. 844.)J 1-549. The extirpation of the large swellings, degenerated piles, is - tformed in the following way. After the bowels have been emptied a purge, and shortly before the operation by a clyster, the patient is to placed on his belly with his buttocks raised, or upon his knees and elbows, upon the side, in which case the opposite thigh is to be drawn up vards the belly, and the buttocks separated by an assistant. In internal es, the swelling having been protruded by the pressure and straining of - patient, also after the employment of a warm hip or vapour bath, is le grasped with broad-bladed forceps drawn forwards, and the pro- lng part cut off at one or more strokes with curved scissors. In the (a) Cliuvres Posthumes, vol. ii.304 TREATMENT OF PILES. same manner external haemorrhoids are to be treated. 1 le most u portant thing to be dreaded, after the operation is bleeding; often is inconsiderable, stops of itself, or can be stanched with cold water. WhJ £ more severe, it may be most certainly stanched by cauterizing bleed ™ part with a bean-shaped iron. The patient must always at h, bl attended by an experienced assistant, as be not cauterized, is always to be dreaded (1). Alter the removal ot internal pile, there may be imminent danger without it being nob** The natient always feels an increased warmth m the rectum, sM accompanied withthe symptoms of concealed bleeding. A cold clyst must be immediately given ; by straining and iotemg,, the Wood lust discharged and the bleeding part protruded, upon which the not iroi to be applied The inflammatory and spasmodic symptoms, as fev«( retention of urine, and no on, which soon come on after the opr., tion ’especially if cauterization be employed ; must be got nd of accordr^ to°circumstances by blood-letting, fommitetions to Ae^^lly,^tdr<^ctt boogie, smeared with cerate i. be°introduced from time to time, to prevent a narrowmg of the rectum ( Plugging the rectum may, .1 “ S When die EiSg after the removal ■will not submit to the actual cautery, B lithotomy. This instrumen r KESS tie i= i'bl means rf™***- i This” instrument should be introduced, and the th hcemorrhage has caw j let off the air and withdraw the instrumen . P e we must again inflate ^ but if we find that it returns on the removal of the piessure, we u b “S?The il^rCniKK was accustomed to cut off piles; j a time, followed the same practice “ thinking Bi the pain produced by it very tnflmg as compaie hg y candidly mentions, i met with several fatal cases from this mit > - ^ h cissors the pa one case, “ a very few days after remov*formed under the 9h complained of pain by the side o constitution was already broken up, an < muscle, which discharged abundantly ; his constoi ha'd removed inti died in consequence of the discharge. In the second casene ^ aft piles, by excision, from a nobleman, without ill co>q ^ u ^ followed by ^ststs. SnbK;&«™ („) Dupuythkn, above cited. (6) Lectures on Surgery ; in Lancet, 18-J, -■», voi. Third Edition. 1826-[ 305 ] THIRD DIVISION. . SEASES DEPENDENT ON UNNATURAL COHERENCE. First Section.—ON UNNATURAL COHERENCE IN GENERAL. . 550. The unnatural coherence of organic parts consists either in the ton of neighbouring parts, which naturally are distinct; or in the forma- . of bad scars which diminish or destroy the movements of parts, by pre- ting their extensibility ; or in a narrowing or closing of their outlets, by ch their functions are considerably disturbed or rendered quite impossi- They are specially either consequences of previous inflammation, or of the original formation and congenital. 551. In order that parts, which in their natural state are distinct, r uld unite together, a proper degree of inflammation, destruction of the | n, and long continued close contact are required. The union is either , nediate, by means of a scarcely perceptible, interposed layer of plastic lph, into which the vessels shoot; or it is fleshy, and depending on the ■. elopment of granulations, and the formation of an intermediate sub- ■ nee, oftentimes having perfect resemblance to the parts it connects; the connecting interposed matter is fibrous, membranous, in which e it would seem that there had been previously a more intimate con- i’ cion, which, in consequence of the movements of the connected organs, 1 formed these membranous lengthenings. For example, in the hand- le adhesions between the peritonceum and the surface of the intestines, ween the pulmonary and costal pleura. All organs are, under the >nDve-mentioned conditions, capable of union; the serous structures and I lovial membranes are most prone to it, the mucous membranes least so, 1 only when their surface is destroyed, and the underlying cellular i oue laid bare. 1552. When in a wound accompanied with loss of substance, especially a severe burn, the treatment has not been conducted with due care, d the parts kept in proper position, the edges of the skin either greatly ntract towards the centre, and a tough cord-like scar often connected i th the underlying parts, or a superficial, prominent, knotty, misshapen nr is produced. In consequence of this the position and movements of Part are in various ways damaged or completely destroyed, or great formity is produced. It must not however be forgotten, that in long ntinued unnatural position of a part, consequent on a scar formed in one ! these ways, secondary contraction of the muscles, and alterations in *e. Uints may be produced, by which the movements are still further re- icted ; and this condition may even become incurable. ' 'J-°u ^ie outlets are peculiarly constituted. They are either > 'mished with a true muscular apparatus, or at least are endowed with a . ecia! contractility, upon which their alternate expansion and contrac- >n tlenfinrl Their inner surface is always overspread with mucous x depend. vOL. II.UNNATURAL COHERENCE 306 membrane, in consequence of which they can, exclusive of the cases from . * compression by neighbouring swellings and the like, be narrowed or closed in a variety of ways : thus, first, by spasmodic contraction, some. J closed in a variety ui ways . t,*.^, -j ~r — - , . *?■ times transient, sometimes continued ; second, by hypertrophy, thickening and swelling of the parenchyma of the mucous tissue lining the outlet, con- * sequent on m-evious inflammation, and on an unnatural vegetative process:^ third, by actual growing together, when for instance the mucous mem- , brane of the outlet is destroyed ; and, fourth, by scars which form at the , edge of the outlet, or in its neighbourhood. fc 1S54 The congenital closure of outlets, (Atresia, Imperjoratio,) as well , as the con o-enital union of parts, which should be separate from each other, , (Sunechia,) are arrested formations, in which the fcetus,. at an early stao-e of its development, remains stationary, when the openings and cleft* ^ ondie outer surface of the body do not yet exist and parts which at a later period become separate, are still united together. I he skin on8“*'jL ally overspreads the whole surface of the body, and has on the fartu* j where it closes the openings and clefts, the same character as elsewhere ; it thins gradually, appears then as a peculiar secreting membrane, and is , lastly removed by the process of absorption. As the Atresia are in the earlier stages of development of the foetus, natural formations soalsoare | the Synechia; for instance, union of the eyelids with each other and wi4% the eyeball; the union of the tongue, of the glans penis with the prepuce, , “ 1555.’if"the closure of the outlets be a vicious primary formation, either the organization of the outlet is natural, and its opening only closed! by a mere skin, though sometimes by a tough fleshy mass, or no trace ^ an onTlS can be perfeived externally. . When the £ an outlet bv which matters pass exists, it shows itself soon after birth, $ L closure 0^ Hie urethla, and the like ; but if it only at a later period assume the peculiar condition of outlets, as, 1 ample the vagina, the closure is generally then first obsenable. *| 1556. The treatment of union of parts, which in the natura free and movable, requires division with the knife, together witl P vention of reunion, and all contact of the divided parts by careMin^ tion 0f folds of linen, or lint besmeared with nnld, and afterwards dry in" ointments. The parts must also at the same time be kept 1 p pel position, and during the period contraeting parts, —| position and movement, only in rare cases can any C0IlsldLra . and th€. be effected by the continued use of softening ointments, • ^ ^ like; usually,7by operation alone can improvement or perfe ditioi), effected ; the management of which is different accou ing s|l0rtnes , 3 seat’ of the scan If the scar be cord-Uke> t®* and destroy motion, several transverse cuts may be made o ^ * mass, and afterwards an apparatus put on, by which the i retained in natural posture, so that the rf.^ parts be effected. When the scar is broad, or united with the u 3' * ^ » 1 owever that its release is possible without W » * it must be cut out. The scar must be included betweenIN GENERAL. 307 fcarated by careful dissection from the parts beneath, or the cellular lembrane. If the skin in the neighbourhood of the wound be yielding, ■3 edges of the wound, if it be not of very great extent, must be set free far, that they may be united with the interrupted, or with the twisted j ;ure. Although the edges of the wound be thus much stretched, and the a; n also in the subsequent healing be still so, yet in a short time it yields, 1 d all deformity disappears. When, as is commonly the case, this union ij impossible, the wound must be treated as one suppurating, and retained ; a proper apparatus in its straight posture. For the purpose of making i> scar sufficiently broad, frequent touching with lunar caustic must a resorted to. I have, however, always found that, in consequence, •respondent condition of the scar is produced, that is, the tough, knotty ojection can be prevented ; but the special contraction of the edges the skin towards the centre is encouraged. In all cases, therefore, in ich I wish to form a broad scar, I only cover the suppurating parts :h softening poultices or washes, and but rarely use caustic. When ! scarring goes on tediously, there is always least disposition to contract, 1 the easier is it to produce a broad scar. If the scar project in knots 9 1 thereby be disfiguring, it must either be removed with the knife held cfrom its base, and the wound healed up in the usual way ; or it must cut completely out, and treated according to circumstances, after the t )ve-mentioned rules. >r )n the different modes of treating deformed scars, compare j.JECK; in Heidelb. klinisch. Annalen, vol. v. p. 213. B)upuytren ; in his Lemons Orales de Clinique Ckirurg., vol. ii. p. 1. £l558. The narrowing and closure of the outlets require, according to a ir several causes, a different treatment. In spasmodic contraction, both (t al and general, corresponding antispasmodic remedies must be employed, tithe narrowing result from an organic change of the mucous membrane, f-must be specially ascertained whether, and what is the cause of the animation, which must be met with corresponding treatment. Should 6 3, however, not be sufficient to get rid of the narrowing, the employ- i' nt of mechanical means, which gradually widen the outlet, is required ; i the removal of the hardened part of the mucous membrane must be ■i empted with the knife, with caustic, and the like. In these various cdesof treatment, it must always be remembered, that should the natural ibre of the outlet be restored, the mucous membrane has always a mliar disposition to reproduce the narrowing. 1559. The cure of imperforation is more or less difficult, in proportion ■the seat of the closure is more or less deep, and depends on a membrane, .'■a fleshy mass. The closed part must be cut into, and its reunion pre- • ited by the introduction of mechanical bodies. In closure of an outlet 'membrane, if the latter be thrust down, in a flask-like form, by the i lection of the excreted matters, the division is easy, and the skin must ’divided with a crucial cut. But if the union be intimate and fleshy, lvision is more difficult, and so much more so, in proportion to the atness of its extent; it must always be made in the middle line of the on. It there be scarce any trace of the external opening of the outlet, cut nmst be made in the direction in which it should open, and the let there sought for. x 2[ 308 ] Second Section.—OF UNNATURAL COHERENCE IN PARTICULAR. f. '• T. -OF THE UNION OF THE FINGERS AND OF THE TOES. T 4 Earle, Henry, On Contractions after Burns or extensive Ulcerations; in MedJOurj li Trans., vol. v. vOl. Y. Further Observations on Contractions succeeding to Ulceration of the Skin, h ’V,;- Trant vnl. vii. d Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. vii 1LU. Beck, K. J., Ueber die angeborne Verwachsung der Finger. Freiburg, 1819. 8vo. ; Seerig Ueber die angeborne Verwachsung der Finger und Zehen, und Ueberzah h derselben! Breslau. 4to; with two lithographed plates. 1560. The union of the fingers with each other has different degree-*? of intensity and extent, and is either congenital or accidental, especially#- after burning the fingers. The congenital union arises, first, from bridge i of skin ; second, from connexions of skin and flesh ; and, third, from run™W toother of bone. The first kind of union is the most frequent. TW natural formation of the finger may also be variously degenerated in thqM 1561. The single mode of getting rid of these deformities consists, ttij. dividing the union, which is alone contra-indicated, when the soft parts o>,l. the hand are grown together in an unshapely mass (1), and the bonesjj the finders so run together, that there is scarcely any connexion by joints 11 Diseased condition of the skinny covering of the ill-formed Wdl highly scrofulous condition of the constitution, still existing niflanuflia O ' i .a;_ • r\f fV»ck rkavfv TBflV 1*611(167 tb IS that time,rexcept for very special reasons, it should not be deferred Wji fact however, that even after the operation-wound has been perfeM* healed, the fingers will again grow together, which depends on deficiency of the skin, and its production not corresponding with the fons*| tion and growth of the finger, partly on the incompletely dividedjmo . stretching on with the enlargement of the finger, is of the are^ 3 portance°and must, if the union of growth do.not prevent, seem mostpj perly to put off the operation, till the complete development of the fin,, { . The painfulness of the operation, as well as the ensuing i»flamm JJJ action, depend on the degree and extent of the union on which ac ^ only one hand should be operated on at once, and the other a distant time. IS Lclll L Lillie;. , 1 (1) In a case in which the hands of a child presented only two lumps ^ a single undivided nail, five movable fingers were made, by cutting throug mon cartilaginous mass (h). 1562. The result of the operation is often unsatisfactory, 33 rcu"^? the divided parts will occur, under the most careful treatment. ^ to be especially feared at that period when the tog& to be especially feared at that periott wnen tne ‘t(^th the hinder angle of the wound, and the edges of tlm wound dra o ^ from both thia vnrimis modes of operation proposed. [ me VVUUI1U, aim MIC — To prevent this, various modes of operation na 1563. In a simple, merely skinny union, after properly fixing the h 1 n #V 5. (a) Seerio, above cited. (ft) Lkroux ; Journal de Med., vol. xiv* P* P309 TREATMENT OF UNITED FINGERS. (J ointed bistoury is thrust, either with its edge towards the operator, I iewhat above the angle of the natural junction of the fingers, vertically, , ough the connecting skin, and then divides it in the mesial line to the 1 rer-tips; or tiie knife is carried from the points of the fingers back- rds through the connexion. The irregularities of the edges of the lund are to be trimmed with the scissors. If the bones be also coll- ated, the soft parts must be first divided with the bistoury, and after- Irds the bony union, through the mesial line, with a little watch-spring The dressings must be most carefully applied: a strip of linen, | ead, at its ends only, with adhesive plaster, must be placed in the angle the wound, and the two ends respectively fixed on the front and back the hand. Over this a small long pad is placed, the surface of the and covered with some folds of linen, spread with ointment, each I eral finger enveloped in a bandage, and the finger, by means of a piece card-board or wood attached to the hand, kept as straight as possible; 3 may also be effected by particular contrivances (a). The dressing iiuld be daily and very cautiously renewed once or under particular umstances even twice, with strips of linen laid close in the angle of wound ; and towards the end of the cure, by a moderate application caustic, the growth of the granulations there must be repressed. Icpuytren (b) applied a narrow long pad with its middle on the angle of the wound, ried its ends to the fore-arm, and fastened them to an arm-bandage. He could not, fever, by these means prevent the reunion. And he did not succeed any better with arrow strap which he buckled to the arm-bandage. i 1564. To prevent the reunion of the angle of the wound, which feecially in firm union, is to be dreaded, Rudtorffer (c) thrusts a steel (idle fourteen lines in length, the point of which is lancet-shaped, and other end having a hole, for the reception of a leaden thread two flies long, vertically between the two united fingers, and thus introduc- lj the leaden thread, bends and leaves it there. Cold water checks the eding and pain, and the sticking of the leaden thread is diminished by earing the edges of the wound with oil. The thread is to be frequently . >ved, and the drying up and scarring hastened by use of lead wash. :ck (d) uses a lancet-needle ten lines broad with a leaden thread of ual width, which is left for some time, till the scarring of the edges of B 3 wound. The leaden thread has a decided preference to the leaden e ite, as by fixing its turned ends, pressure is always kept up against the n gle of the wound, for with the leaden plate, with which this cannot be ne, the growth at the angle of the wound goes on, and the lead is thrust ‘ t, as I saw in one instance. 1565. If the skin upon the back of the united fingers be sound and tural, it should be divided, according to Zeller (e), a little beyond the 3ond phalanx; a V-shaped cut should then be made in the skin on the rsal surface, with its point on the middle of the connecting substance. ie skin should be detached, turned back, and, after the complete vision of the union, this flap should be carried down between the gers towards the palm, and fixed with sticking plaster. This treatment neikunst sicli bezienden Beobaclitungen, vol. ii. p. 478.' (ci) Above cited. 00 Abhandlnng iiber die ersten Erscheitmngen venerischer Local-krankheitsformen, p. 109. Wien, 1810. 1 '0 Zaxo; Dardellung, u. s. w., vol. iv. pi. iii. v ,T!£‘>n* Orales, vol. ii. p. 30. 'JAbliandlung liber die einfachste und sichcrete henL?n™<?ho<le ein K^perner listen- und Kell,ruche; nebst eincm Anhanee merk- raiger, auf den operativen Theil der Wundarz-GROWING TOGETHER 310 is rarely possible, as the skin is most commonly hard, callous, morbidly changed, and the flap commonly dies (a). Krimer (5) has, however, given some satisfactory reports of this operation. 1566. If the reunion of the fingers cannot be prevented, the operation must be repeated, but the inflammatory reaction and plastic activity must have completely subsided. II -OF GROWING TOGETHER OF THE JOINT ENDS OF BONES, ANCHYLOSIS (c). Muller, Diss. de Anchylosi. Lugd. Batav., 1707. Van Doeveren, Diss. de Anchylosi. Lugd. Batav., 1783. Murray, Diss. de Anchylosi. Upsal, 1787. Delpech, Precis Elementaire, vol. i. Barton, On the Treatment of Anchylosis, etc. Philadelphia, 1827. Lacroix, De 1' Anchylose; in Annales de 1’Anatomie et de la Physiologie pathologiqua,* publ. par Pigne, 1843. 1567. Every intimate union of two bones, which naturally are con- < nected together in a joint, produces complete loss of motion in the joint* (Anchylosis, Lat. ; Gelenksteifigheit, Germ.; Anhylose, hr.) Anchylosis is commonly divided into true and false. Under the is' C0“P£ hended the loss of motion in a joint, depending on the union of the joint-surfaces, undate the hitter that condition, in which the movements of the joint are only more orles^ interfered’with, as is observed in long-continued inflammation of join ts, in swelling of w the ligaments n tumours near the joints, in continued contraction of the muscles, and . the ligaments, in tumours ne J > incorrect and objectionable, because, in , ents, m tumours near me m , : . . ,, * • the like. This division is, to a certain extent, incorrect and objectionable, beca , the so-called false anchylosis, the hindrance of motion is only to be considered as ». me so caneu iai J „,ioi tcLIpL the nlan of treatment must be the so-called false anchylosis, the hindrance of motion is only to ne consiuereu « . symptom of the disease, towards the removal of which the plan of treatment must be directed? and the union of the joint-ends of the bones is alone to be considered as the. actual disease. 1568. The growing together of the joint-surfaces may be produced in ; various ways. It is usually consequent on inflammation of the parts com* posing the joint, especially when of some standing, and when the joint has been lone at rest. If the inflammation go on to suppuration, and the cartilaginous surfaces be destroyed, if there be carious destruction of the bones, granulations may form, which, by shooting into each other, may become the means of union. Long-continued immobility of j may also cause an union of the surfaces. Although this is veij' rare. a may be readily distinguished, from the restrained motion which is con sequent on habitual contraction of the muscles, on swelhng of the 1 ga ments and the like, observed after dislocation, and after the treating of fractures, and may be got rid of by motion, softening rubbings and so on it is, however indisputable ; although the ordinary explanation ^ of’it, from want of synovia, or comparison of it with the obliteration of blood vessels, when the circulation is suppressed, is insufficient (')■ 1569. According to the sort of union of the joint-surfaces p d and its duration, is the nature of the connecting substance. It * *“ j, soft and yielding, frequently lengthening into ligament-like ban , o, converted into an actual bony mass by the deposition of plio-p Walthkr, Ph. P, Ueber die angebomen (.) All the additions wluch seemeito me W vval * T nnrlsrhut 1814. fol. sary, have been already made at p* r ;0Jni vol. xiii. gangAnchylosis as a termmabon rf J- P- 602> (rf) Delpech ; above cited, p. 611.311 OF THE ENDS OF BONES. 01570. The treatment of anchylosis must be determined by the follow- 1, circumstances. In most cases where anchylosis takes place, it is a | iirable result, for example, in caries of joints, the so-called white swell- and the like; and it should by no means be sought to prevent it, for ; the attempts made with that object will only increase the inflammation, j the danger of the anchylosis. In such cases, therefore, the joint must kept in the most perfect rest, and in such position, that the anchylosis suing will be most convenient and advantageous. Subsequently, when * inflammatory symptoms have disappeared, three conditions are pos- le : the substance connecting the joint-surfaces is either yielding, and by itinued and gradually increased movements of the joint, may be length- id into ligament-like bands, or these motions may reproduce the aminatory symptoms, or they may be very difficult, and become every y more and more confined. In the first case, the movements are always lompanied with pain, which must be got rid of by emollient and soothing alications, rubbings in, bathing, and the like, and motion not carried to ;h extent as would produce fresh inflammation of the joint. In the :ond case, all motion must be avoided ; and in the third, no effort can be the least useful, because the mass has been already more or less con- rted into bone. f. Rea Barton (a) sawed through the thigh-bone at the trochanter, in a case of an- losis at the hip-joint, brought the limb into proper position, and by motion prevented on. He also employs this practice on other joints. It is only practicable when the ient is in good health, and when the stiffness depends on the soldering together of bones, the soft parts at the same time being unaffected with disease, and all the scles and tendons which contribute to the motions of the joint healthy ; when the se of the disease is entirely removed; when the operation can be performed so e to the original point of motion, or so near to it that the functions of the greater iber of muscles and tendons can be preserved; and when the deformity and incon- ience is so great, that the patient is induced to subject himself to the pain and danger such an operation, von Wattmann has obtained a favourable result by sawing ough the upper-arm bone in anchylosis of the elbow joint. Dieffenbach (b) ieves that the separation of the united joint by means of the chisel and saw, would • be more hurtful than the above-mentioned sawing through of the bone, to form an h ificial joint, inasmuch as the anchylosed joint is no longer a joint, and therefore o unding it is not to be so much dreaded. 1571. The slighter degrees of the so-called false anchylosis, depending contraction of the muscles or ligaments, or on contracting scars, may completely removed by rubbing in suppling ointments, by relaxing ths, steam, and the like, with the simultaneous use of apparatus (1), \ rich gradually straighten the joint. In the more severe forms of con- iction little or nothing is effected in this way ; in such cases, violent and dden extension; gradual extension with an apparatus, the tendons 'ving been previously divided; or, sudden and violent extension soon ter cutting through the tendons, have been proposed and practised. The j st mode of treatment (Louvrier’s) is objectionable (2) ; the extension, r aPparatus, after division of the tendons is generally tedious, must be •ry long continued, often produces considerable pain, and frequently eets with invincible obstacles; with it, however, no dangerous symptoms e to he feared. The violent extension after division of the tendons will ■nsiderably shorten the cure (Dieffenbach). This mode of treatment rmat?on If A J^tT?nt of Anchylosis by the (fc) Ueber die Durchfclineidimg der Selinen und >d i « f ArPflclal J°lnU; >n North American Muskeln, p. 249. • am' burg- Journal, vol. iii. p. 279. 1827.GROWING TOGETHER OF CONES, especially applies to the false anchylosis of the knee; it may, however ■ employed in other joints. ’ ' the various apparatus forextending the knee-joint (Stromeyer, Dry., Bouvier, and others) I think Stuetter’s the most preferable. (2 ) APfnvflinrr frv Ttminn C* n n i i ! . y ~ ^ muoi pi ClCI HUltJ. (-) According to Berard, (a) of twenty-two cases of false anchylosis, treated * Louvrxer s method, three were fatal, on account of the severity of the violence; in neitW was a well-formed joint produced; in the greater number there was dislocation rf the knee backwards, and always renewed though slight contraction. lot 2. In contractions of the knee-joint the patient is laid on his bellv that the crooked knee may project beyond the edge of the table. The tendons, having been rendered very tort by violently pulling the leg, are- cut through beneath the skin, and the limb bent so strongly that the bee1 shall touch the buttock. It is then again forcibly extended, and agaiflw flexed, and this backward and forward motion is continued till the limb U> straightened. Sometimes there is a loud crack, from the false connexions : being thus torn through. In grown persons it often requires the united i strength of three or four men, to break the knee-joint perfectly straight, t Even in a case of true anchylosis, consequent on a penetrating wound oJ i the joint, and its resulting suppuration, the breaking through of the; united knee-joint, and the straightening of the limb, is required (Dief- : fenbach.) Immediately after the extension of the limb is effected, the ; knee-joint should be covered with pads, enveloped in a flannel roller, laic t upon a padded hollow splint, and the splint and limb fastened together 9 with a second flannel bandage. On reapplying the apparatus, the limb musi ; be carefully cleansed, and in replacing it, much local pressure must lx avoided, or slough of the skin will quickly ensue. After completion o: t the cure, the straight stiff joint must be carefully bathed and rubbed withi suet. In many instances, if the joint again become flexible, the patient may be able to walk without halting (Dieffenbach.) 15 i 3. Very severe symptoms may result from this violent extension o i the limb, great inflammation, with its consequences may ensue, so as t< render amputation necessary, and may even cause death. These emergencies as well as the more or less favourable result of the operation rests, inde ? pendent of the constitution of the patient, especially on the changes whicl # have occurred in the joint itself and in the neighbouring parts. In con i tractions already long existing, and accompanied with great alteration o * the joint, there is always a dislocation of the leg upon the thigh, fron ■ within outwards, or from without inwards ; the shin-bone often gets unde u the thigh-bone, so that the foot is shortened, the knee-cap very prominent h and the ham less hollow; the condyle of the thigh-bone is often curve* m backwards, the whole limb wasted and atrophic. In such cases littl* t violence is needed to dislocate the leg backwards. Even when by sucl alteration of the joint, the straight posture is effected, it has a most im tsf perfect result, as the joint always remains more or less bent, the leg mor i)j or less placed behind the thigh, and the patient is only able to go on a crutch q In long-continued contraction of the knee-joint, the popliteal artery may b so considerably shortened, that extension of the limb cannot be effect61 4 without tearing it. (Chassaignac.) The splint-bone may be also so fas a connected witii one or other condyle of the thigh, or may be so thrust i i between the shin- and thigh-bone, as to render the straightening of th 1 limb impossible. If the contraction of the joint be only consequent on | 00 Gazette Medicate do Paris, vol. ix. p. 324. Paris, 1841.313 AND OF THE NOSTRILS. Lnge of the surrounding parts, the result of the operation will be more ourable, as the joint will resume its natural form, power, and motion, this case the joint is always more movable in the flexing direction, •eat crookedness of’the knee-joint often cannot be rendered straight ,aer cutting the tendons; it will always crook again. The cause is, in s case, in the shortness of the lateral ligaments, usually in the external ?e, which is stretched under the skin, and must be cut through be- i ath it (a). III.—OF THE GROWING TOGETHER AND NARROWING OF THE NOSTRILS. 1574. A complete closing up of the nostrils is more rare than their v rrowing, and is commonly the result of ulceration and burns; it is rely congenital. In slight narrowing, the malformation is inconsider- le, and usually requires no assistance. In more considerable narrowing, ,7(j growing together, the breathing is affected, especially at night, and the :ech also. The connexion may be either at the edges of the nostrils, or [e wings of the nose may adhere to its septum, and the growing together y extend more or less into its cavities. By the projection of the air in wing through the nose, with the nostrils still open, the extent of the a nnexion may perhaps be ascertained. 11575. When the nostrils are merely narrowed, after an assistant has .Bed the patient’s head, a director is to be introduced into the nostril, and si ion it a narrow straight bistoury, with which the narrowed part is to be .1 t through according to the form and direction of the nostril, which is ■ n us widened. If the nostril be closed by a mere skin, this must be b erced with a bistoury, and its edges, having been taken hold of with ,«i rceps, raised and cut off. If the nostril be completely grown together, fe e bistoury must be thrust in the direction where the cavity should be, 1 it reach it, and being then withdrawn, and a director introduced, e bistoury is to be carried in upon it, and the connexion divided, as ;.i ove described. This operation is always more doubtful, and its conse- lences less certain, the higher the connexion extends. ' 1576. After the division, the natural calibre of the nostril must be pre- ryed by dressing, which is managed by introducing plugs of lint, or a l ‘ill wrapped with lint, by gum-elastic tubes, or Benjamin Beel’s little ) bes (b) smeared with lead ointment, and kept in position by a bandage >und the head. The dressing must be renewed daily, all foreign matters moved, the nose cleaned, and after injection of lead wash, reapplied. If >e introduced hard substances produce much irritation, plugs of lint must 5 used instead. This treatment must be continued till the opening of the istril be completely skinned over, and even still longer, if we desire to When such disposition is noticed, it must be opposed by the use of ‘panders, sponge-tent, and the like. •oid all disposition to a recurrence of the growing together or narrow- er WUn a: ij.- j ° ° the great disposition to repeated closure, the operation must never be ,“ ’jken whUst the plasticity is still very active. When the narrowing of the nostril -pcnas on unnatural formation of the bones, no expansion can be effected. («) Phillips, Ch., De la Tenotomio souscutanee, &c., p. 114. Paris, 1841. 8vo. (6) System of Surgery, vol. iv. p. 88. 1786.[ 314 ] IV. OF UNNATURAL ADHERENCE OF THE TONGUE. Petit ; in Mc'moires de 1’Academic dcs Sciences. 1742. Louis, Sur les Tumeurs Sublinguales ; in Mem. de 1’Acad, de Chir., vol. v. p. 410. ,' Oehme, De Morbis recens-natorum chirurgicis. Lipsise, 1773. Lanc, De Frenulo linguae, ejusque incisione. Jena;, 1785 JjAINU) L/u x icuuw 7 » 1 ^ 1577 An unnatural adherence of the tongue, by which sucking, the ■ movements of the tongue, and proper articulation of the voice, are more »j or less prevented, may depend,on a tough, fleshy swelling of a brownish colour, and often nearly of the same size with the tongu^d beneath which it lies; second, on the tongue-string (frccnulum,) which . either extends to the tip of the tongue, or is too short, {tongue-tied oi common language, J. f. s.) ; third, on membranous connexions of the ; tono-ue on one or both sides ; fourth, on union of the under surface of the ■ tongue with the corresponding surface of the mouth. _ The diagnosis of these conditions rests on examination. _ In children,- bv holding the nose, the mouth is made to open, and then with two fingers the tongue is raised and pressed towards the palate and sides. I he examw nation is more necessary, as in many cases, the inability of children to suck* from their mother and wet-nurse is ascribed to the tying of the tonguw whilst it really depends on other causes. . 1578 When by this unnatural attachment of the tongue, sucking u prevented, or at a later period the speech is interfered with, the tongue must be set loose that it may enjoy free motion. _ 1579 In cases where the above-mentioned tumour is observed undo J It/ i »/• 3 Ll^L in PnttinC ■ the tongue, speedy assistance is always needed, which consists in cutting j into the swelling. An assistant holds the chdd s^nose, forcibly ^ °lj th^tongue with°the thumb and forefinger of the left hand with * pH upwards by which the fleshy mass is made more tense, and then it is cm i bRo with a pair of blunt-pointed scissors. The wound generally heals u a few days the spittle and milk render any topical application useles I andTt is^necessary to move the finger under the tongue frequen^g » the day in order to prevent the reunion. In some cases it is J scarify the tumour with a lancet, to diminish its size and give the on^-j free motion. If the ranine artery or vein be wounded, it must b I aS i580d Tl^di^sion of the tongue-string either when too short, or wheM reachingThe tip ” the organ, 1st be effected after properly j ton-ue as in the former case, with the two fingers of the left nan or with a spatula having a cleft in it for receiving t le _ j3"?'1, ^ and rendering it tense, by Schmitt’s tongue-scissors, which, \ convexity upwards, are’carried to the frcenidum and cut ®tr0ke, to the necessary extent. In doing this the scissors aredirt^ low as possible, towards the bottom of the mouth, to avoid in] g ranine artery. , • - ,n\ Rn*. The instruments referred to are Petit’s spatula, with a snap-km t Bell’s scissors (6). Schmitt’s scissors (c). ' 1581. When the tongue unites with the corresponding sur mouth, the child's mouth must be kept open by meanso P ^„ thrust between the jaws, and the tip of the tongue being ra,s (e) Loder’s Journal, vol. iv. part b> P 1, 2. (а) Above cited, fig. 1,5,6,7. (б) Above citetl, vol, m. pi. *>»• 1166.315 GROWING TOGETHER OF THE GUMS AND CHEEKS. ,,, e and middle fingers of the left hand, the tongue must be set free with ! urved bistoury to its proper extent. Occasionally, though not, I believe, very often, after severe sloughing of the mem- ■ ’ ne of the mouth, mostly after the use of mercury, the tongue contracts adhesion with 1 clieek. I have recently had one such case under my care, the only one I have seen which the side of the tongue was attached to the extent of half an inch. I applied '“’wature around the band, which separated in three or four days, and set the tongue ci I preferred the ligature to snipping it through, lest there might be trouble from -* ;r-bleeding.—J. F. S.J (1582. The accidents which may occur after separating the tongue in , above cases are bleeding, and when the tongue has been divided to a jat extent there is danger of suffocation. Attempts to stop bleeding the wounded ranine artery must be made with little bundles of lint, listened in styptics, Theden’s arquebusade, or a solution of alum, which I juld be pressed against it with the finger ; or the actual cautery may be plied to the bleeding part, which in all cases is preferable to the com- * jssors of Petit, Jourdain, and Lampe. Bleeding may also be pro- 1 ced by the child sucking his tongue; in which case the blood will be • allowed. Care must, therefore, be taken for the first few days, that len he awake he be laid on his breast. f If there be danger of suffocation by the tongue turning backwards, it ■ ist be brought forward with the finger in the mouth, put in its place, - d there kept by means of a thick pad put upon the tongue, and fastened u: a bandage carried round the lower jaw ; this must be removed as often 0 the child needs to drink (a). 1 1583. The membranous connexion of the tongue with the correspond- g part of the gums, fixes the tongue either equally on both sides, or it 'drawn to one or other side, according as it is unequally attached, or ion one side. The division of this connexion is always easily effected with e scissors. V.—OF GROWING TOGETHER OF THE GUMS AND CHEEKS. 1584. The growing together of the gums with the cheeks is mostly con- (quent on inflammation and excoriation, the violent use of mercury, and - <e severe salivation following it, if the lips and cheeks be quiet. It may ny of greater or less extent, by which chewing and speech are more or less ndered. It may be prevented in the above instances by frequently cleans- fg and injecting the mouth, by pencilling it with mucilaginous fluids, by the Production of pieces of soft linen, by frequent movements of the parts, ' hd introduction of the fingers ; and, by the same means, an already formed Jglutination may be got rid of. If the connexion be firmer it must be vided with a bistoury, and prevented reuniting. VI.—OF NARROWING AND CLOSURE OF THE MOUTH. Dikffendach, Erfahrungen iiber die Wiederherstellung zerstorter Theile, u. s. w., ct. iii. p. 65. Rost, G., Diss. de chilo- et stomatoplastice. Berol., 1836. Baumcarten, Diss. de chiloplastice et stomatopoesi. Lips., 1837. Zeis, Handbuch der plastichen Chirurgie, p. 435. 1585. Complete closure of the mouth as a vice of the first formation, is 6ry rare, and mostly accompanied with other vicious formations. A (a) Petit.NARROWING AND CLOSURE 316 small opening must be first made in one or other corner of the mouth, (Y whilst lifted up with the forceps; a director is then introduced, and upou it the closed membrane must be divided. 1586. Narrowing of the mouth frequently happens in consequence of , large scars after the operation for cancer of the lip, or after any other t, wound with great loss of substance ; usually, however, the mouth expands r and the lips and cheeks retaining their extensibility, gradually allow its . return to the ordinary form. But when there is a hard callous state of scar with simultaneous great loss of substance, and growing together of , the membrane of the lips and cheeks with the gums, as after burns, destroyino- ulcers in herpes rodens, but especially after excessive and ill- « employed use of mercury and the like, then such enlargement of die , mouth will not follow, and three degrees of deformity may be distin- ; mushed: first, narrowing of the mouth from growing together of the , internal surface of the cheeks and lips with the jaws in which the rater- .. nal lips are unconcerned ; second, the growing together of the mouth, antei the conversion of the cleft of the mouth into a small round hole; third f ■ destruction of the external lips with great loss of substance to a WHfejl extent so that the teeth are exposed, and the jaws cannot be separattM from each other (Dieffenbach.) The inconvenience is various accord-^t ing to the degree of narrowing; the introduction of food and®h® ,n°’'M more or less difficult; the patient often can take only liquids widjj; trouble; the nourishment fails, tartar collects on the teeth ; the smell dl the breath is very offensive, and the like. , »] 1587. Widening of the mouth by cutting at both corners, as former advised, is useless, as the cut always again unites, and the defonm^g worse. The treatment must vary according to the several degrees of naMi rowing and destruction of the lips. +t,r«al-lika» 1588. If the lips, otherwise unhurt, be connected by adhesions to the jaw, that part of the lip where 1:he union J ‘ be strongly drawn down, the tough scar divided, and the adbema throughout their whole extent properly removed with the* knife• or^ . J far as possible, to allow the lower jaw to be depressed. The mouth- a then to be well washed with cold water, and frequently widely opeoed* I and the cure usually soon follows. But if the entire surfaces be pm I together, a corresponding portion of the sound membrane o I must be separated to the thickness of common pasteWd applied 9 that part of the cheek opposite the meeting of the teeth andfeten^ ^ the interrupted suture, so as to prevent the reu i < . h ^ | face by the mucous membrane spread over it. W hen l - the breadth of the lips is narrowed by previous ulceratio O . portionally shrivelled, no advantage will be derived •is they will always remain attached to the jaw s. 1 e j of theyaPerture of the mouth must also be effected in the way abov. mei589. In considerable narrowing of the mouth from lts ^ I gether and firm scarring, which mostly affects one oro mr modc j mouth, or even both, Dieffenbach’s (a) and Werxecks W (a) Rwr’s Magazin, vol xxv. p. 383, and work B'7(n <Ueber> die kiinstliclie Mundwinkel- und Lippenbildung durcli blutige Umsolrlagung der Mundliaut; in von GRAtra und Journal, vol. iv.p. 202. Hu. mode ‘wb5 similar to DiefkbnbacH s, but publislt quentlv.317 OF THE MOUTH. treatment are the best. A thick strip of the entire soft parts, down to n mucous membrane, which must be left uninjured, is to be cut from the •Juth at one or both sides; for which purpose, the pointed blade of a 'tjr of sharp scissors thrust into the corner of the mouth is carried to •jne extent between the soft parts of the cheek and the mucous mem- ,tne, and the cheek cut through to the part where the angle of the mouth o be formed. From the lower corner of the mouth, a cut parallel to former is connected by a short circular cut. The.piece of skin thus cumscribed, is now to be completely separated from the mucous mem- me, and afterwards the other side similarly treated. When the bleeding stanched, the lower jaw must be much depressed, by which the exposed icous membrane will be considerably stretched, and must then be larated for a few lines from the membrane of the cheek, and divided the middle, but not so far as the corner of the mouth. After stanching > blood and closing the wound, the mucous membrane must be drawn t over its edges, and the edges of the membrane connected around with e needles and the twisted suture. The mucous membrane folds op- site the middle of the lip which has not been disturbed. The part the mucous membrane not cut through should be well drawn out at rners. he bloodless expansion of the mouth with sponge-tent, and the like, is useless, ■rizontal cuts on either side, as formerly recommended for widening the mouth, are vailing, inasmuch as they always re-unite, and the person’s condition is worse, practice of Kruger-Hansen (a), who, after Rodtorffer’s statement in reference nited fingers, {par. 1555,) made an opening with a trocar into a mouth half closed a callous scar, at the point where its boundary was to be fixed, in which he allowed fl :aden thread to remain till the part had skinned over, after which the remaining cut 3 made, is tedious, uncertain, and produces a callous aperture for the mouth. 0 1590. If with narrowing of the mouth there be such loss of substance in lips, that the teeth are exposed, and the jaws cannot be separated from ch other, and in which often the small opening of the mouth is dragged il ion the cheek, the deformity can be only somewhat improved, and the 1 tient’s condition alleviated, after careful examination of the peculiarity the case, by cutting out the hard scar, loosening the attachment to the 4 lvs» drawing over the skin, and the like. r. Compare also an interesting case of a similar operation of Dieffenbach’s (6). VII.—OF NARROWING OF THE (ESOPHAGUS. Bleuland, Observationes anatomico-medicce de Sana et morbosa (Esophagi structura. lgd. Batav., 1769. Von Geuns, M., in Verhandelingen uytgegeeven doorHoll. Maatschappy der Wetens- ■' iappen, vol. xi. Haarlem, 1769. Kunze, A. G., Commentatio pathologica de Dysphagia. Lips., 1820. Home, Everard, Practical Observations on the Treatment of Strictures in the ™ a a".- ,(EsoPhagus. vol. i.p. 536. London, 1805 ; Third Edition, vol. i. p. 395 ; •cond Edition, London, 1821. ” ’ BPtWeHER, Robert, Medico-Chirurgical Notes and Illustrations on some dangerous • J c s of the Throat; on Strictures of the (Esophagus, &c. London, 1831. 4to. Mondiere ; in Archives generates de Medecine, vol. xxv. p. 58. 1831. Appia, Dissert, de Stricturis (Esophagi. Heidelberg®, 1842. '' •tmah^vol’ YeptCri?ie Behandlungder Stricturen des (Esophagus; in Heidelberg. Medic. («) VON Orakfe und Walther’s Journal, vol. iv. p. 513. (6) Erfahrungen, sect. Hi. p. 110.318 STRICTURE OF THE : i 1591 Narrowing of the oesophagus may be produced by various causes; by scars’ after wounds or burns {par. 474) ; by the swelling up of its walls consequent on chronic inflammation of its internal coat; by scirrhous or callous hardening ; by fungous, polypous, or warty growths ; by a varicose condition of the vessels; by tumours, especially swellings of the glands which compress the oesophagus; and by spasm. Hoederer (a) observed an oesophagus with a blind end in a monster. The same was also seen in a full-grown and otherwise well-formed child (b). _ _ 1592. The consequence of narrowing of the oesophagus is more or less in- terfence with swallowing; the symptoms, however, vary according to the kind and seat of the narrowing. „ ... , 1593 In simple (membranous) stricture, which, resembling a fold of. the internal membrane of the maphagta, occupies only a small extern, and is usually situated at the upper part of the tube, opposite the cn^id cartilage, the patient first feels, at one particular spot, a slip cult; in swallowing olid food, and, when the food passes over the part often . shivering in the back. This difficulty continues a longer or shorter ttme, diminishes or ceases, and reappears without any particular cause, or after a chilliness, mental emotion, and the like. The disease may thus long continue getting better and worse. Earlier or late^thed,ffi^,n »* lowing becomes greater, large pieces of food will be retained at that particular part of the oesophagus, in consequence of which, symptoms of choking with the sensation of a violent, spasmodic contraction of the necki couo-h “and great straining are produced, by which the food, frequaifljj Sh an audible grating noise, passes over the obstacle, or by the contrac- tion of the wall! of the oesophagus, and the straining of the patient, if dine to time, a little improvement, for which, subsequent aggravation, no reason call of swaUw modic affection be not assumed. With the esmm , there is, however no > caus5e9s4tl,arrowing, L which it forms a Wm contracting itself to the smallest aperture, generally clepenas flammatory condition of the mucous membrane °fSS'i quently, however, no decided cause can be found ; ofJe“tl“^. A. alternateh a cold At the beginning, the disease, on account of i s ge t | 1 ^ better and worse, is thought to be a spasmodic affection, it is, no ^ bable that a spasmodic affection may P^“to P™^ tly in mid-life form of narrowing of the oesophagus occnrsmove Irequen y ^ men and, according to my experience, more fiegw^ f I have however, noticed it in persons of fifty or sixty years Home (c) has given a beautiful engraving of a membranous stricture. (a) Commentar. Societ. Goetting., vol. iv. (fc) IURI.ES8, Rliciniscli. Jahrbuclier rider Med. und Chir., vol. i. pt. - (c) Above cited, p «.v> i. **-*(ESOPHAGUS. 319 1595. The callous narrowing of the oesophagus mostly consists of a Ircular thickening of the walls of the tube, at a particular spot ; it may, i.wever, be variously spread, often only one or other wall of the oeso- V mgus is affected to a different extent. It is generally, from the first, ;r companied with great inconvenience ; the food, at the moment of swal- wino% causes violent pain, mostly between the shoulder-blades; it is ! rowm up, and commonly also with it a morbidly large quantity of tough ,ucus, secreted from the almost entirely closed breathing passages. The i.tient assists himself by throwing himself back, stretching out his neck, d similar movements, in order to carry the food over the seat of narrow- d t ; oftentimes the food passes on with a noise and cessation of pain ; ij terwards every portion of food is returned, with a gurgling noise and >( olent cough. This disease also for a time yields, and usually makes slow ^ o°ress; I have, however, seen in one case the patient starved to death i three months, and on examination a circular, regularly callous thicken- er of the walls of the oesophagus was found at its upper part, and i adually lost itself both above and below. ■ 1596. In scirrhous hardening of the walls of the oesophagus, which r herwise in its symptoms has great resemblance to the callous condition, , d is generally situated at the lower part of the oesophagus, and even at •' e cardia, the difficulty in swallowing usually increases slowly, and the tient has also a dull, weighty, dragging, and often very painful sensa- m at the part, especially opposite the spine, which diminishes on lying >wn. 1597. The symptoms and accidents in this stricture of the oesophagus, e especially different in reference to its seat and extent, and particularly i. regards the condition of the oesophagus above the stricture; as when, £ is frequently the case, it is considerably expanded, the food that is 'allowed, collects in great quantity, and is only afterwards thrown up. The expansion of the walls of the oesophagus is either of the whole of the canal, oi- ly; partial, and depends on the protrusion of the internal coat between the separated ' I res of the muscular coat, so that a sac of various size is formed (Diverticulum, Hernia sophagi, (Esophagus succenturiatus, &c.) This partial expansion occurs also fre- ently without any narrowing of the oesophagus; at least, I have never observed it th, but twice without stricture. It depends on the excessive expansion or tearing of >ne muscular fibres in the swallowing, and sticking of large, hard pieces of food, and 1 like. The food gets into this sac, expands it still more, and sooner or later, without y straining, is thrown up into the mouth. Whilst eating, the patient, when this sac is 111 and at the upper part of the oesophagus, must, as I have witnessed, empty it, from ■he to time, by pressure with the fingers, so that he may be able to swallow better. 1598. In the scirrhous and callous, cartilaginous and bony, narrowing of e oesophagus, which occurs, specially after the abuse of spirituous liquors, om the habit of eating and drinking very hot things, from the suppression the ordinary discharges, from the venereal disease and alike, generally 2 advanced age, and in men, ulceration comes on at the later period, by nch part of the stricture is destroyed, and symptoms of hectic con- niption ensue. When these strictures are of long continuance, the ulce- ion always begins on the side next the stomach, which must be attributed ueed to the frequent efforts to vomit, by which the walls of the oesophagus ' the ?£ricture are deprived of their natural activity and natural ii C*Ur°' lhe ulce™tion is usually seated on the hind wall of the rj; ayus next tlie spine, and not unfrequently attacks the bones ; it may, ever, destroy the trout wall and the corresponding part of the trachea320 STRICTURE OF TIIE or bronchi, and a communication may be produced between them, in which case most violent cough, choking on every attempt to swallow, and haemorrhage are produced. I have seen one case of callous stricture in a man sixty-three years old, in which there was a communication between the right bronchus and the oesophagus. Meyer (a) relates an instance of strictured oesophagus with a communication between the left bronchus and the oesophagus. Genduin' (b) communicates two cases of narrowing of the , oesophaqus at the region of the cricoid cartilage, in which there was also a fistulou* orifice into the trachea, and cough in swallowing, vomiting fluids, speaking through the nose in consequence of the changed direction given to the air. 1599. In narrowing of the oesophagus from fungous growths, fluid? usually pass with more difficulty than solids ; if the food be again throve up it is usually mixed with bloody mucus, and membranous fibres, which even on examination with the sound, present a yielding obstacle and become ^'leoo! The compression of the oesophagus by swellings of any kind in it: j neighbourhood, can be ascertained by careful examination of the neck a O _ « • - I. lib ibn .—nl* ♦ V*nen tnmmiw the difficulty of swallowing corsesponds with the growth ot these tumours a , J i :n T-oarlllir In this disease than in stricture** tne UlinuuiLy Ui r . ,, . ... an oesophagus sound will pass more readily in this disease than m stricture If such swellings be seated in the chest, the diagnosis is also mor doubtful. See also in Kunze (c) the different observations on these swellings. ■ Here also belongs the so-called Dysphagia lusona depending on the unnatural araJ f +iio snhelaviau 'artery by which the oesophagus is compressed. Bayford (i) and hi. observations have been conSrnied to «J»r , (Richter (e), Valentin (/), Autenrieth) (fir)- BJ' some this cause of •; rlm Ll f Fleischmann (A), Rudolphi,) because the unnatural course of the sal HI ,s demed, (hLEiscHMAN t , without this disease; and this notion is settled b. tl'Z EiN ays he origL of ffie dysphagy in this unnatural course of the subclava : , I SC+prv d^nends on whether the artery pass before the trachea, between it and tl - rLmul or between it and the spinal column, in which latter case the disease mu f rt ’ The inconvenience first appears at the period of puberty, or on thesa ! take plM ^ he “Sn * hen the congestion towards the chest is greater. Tl •.« KZs Lr°Stat PpiIti.n and danger of suffocation on every attempt* aceompankd rvith ^mulons tow;*** W- > .hftoSSSSufeSce is in ™»Uowi5e alone, and even thenota- . I*"l601. The spasmodic stricture of the esophagus is usually seatedmo at the lower Jt towards the stomach, ! ' tion of'“the tying together a fast-fixed’substance ; sometimes the orffOtM tion oi tnc iyi >D o _ ;n cnnsmod c tension; the ei >1 swallowing and the “muscles of the neck are in spasmodic tension ; the* is increased by cold drinks, and diminished by hot ones. It » panied with spasmodic symptoms in other organs, qualmishness, \oi IZX, secretion of a watery mucus, not unfrequently symptoms of ^ d .. ” i’ of speech, and the like. The spasm frequently interim-, St o iritowevcr, continue for a long while .which rend# jiTlosis difficult; and also that, probably, during this long conunwa ■ membranous stricture (par. 1594) will be produced. If pasmbead , to organic stricture, the symptoms will be quickly increased. Vereiimeitung fur Preussen, 1836, (a)_Med ^ fit'journal des Connalssancea MedlM-Chiiurgi- Cvol! kSi l839 ; Oestr. medicin. Jalirbilcher, vol. xxvii. pt- 2. (r) Above cited. (/,) None Schriften dcr Krlanger pliys. med. Gescllsch (d) Memoirs of the Medical Society of I*** (e) Chirurgische Bibliothek, vol• P (/) Journal de Mcdecine, Chirurgie, "'(s’)6 Pdciderer (Prats. AOTtNWETH) Dysphagia lusoria. Tubing.* 180o. * vol. ih(ESOPHAGUS. 321 I -here is a difficulty in swallowing, which may amount to the greatest degree of pha °y, dependent on a chronic inflammatory, and consequent spasmodic affection 4 he upper part of the pharynx, and which, on account of its usual connexion with etiginous diseases, and the peculiar change of the mucous membrane of the pharynx, j ^''distinguished as Angina impetiginosa. This disease develops itself without any <*;, ided cause, and after a catarrhal affection of the throat. The difficulty in swallowing j -eases gradually to a very great degree, so that it is often quite impossible for the ent to swallow, and the smallest portion of food or drink is thrown up, with which ■u' -e are also spasmodic contractions in the throat, and difficulty of breathing. It is ■: .culiarity in this complaint, that it is more difficult to get down fluids, than more l j jistent mucilaginous substances; there is often such dread of fluids, that when of jght to the mouth there is the most violent spasm of the glottis, so that every a mpt to swallow is impossible. If the throat be examined by proper compression j,:r he tongue, the hind wall of the pharynx is found to be especially changed; the r£$ 'ous membrane has a net-like or latticed appearance, and between the paler streaks . j perceived a few light red island-shaped elevations. The redness is very indistinct, M er pale, and inclining to yellow; at several parts there is a sort of papular and id .ctenous formation. The patient complains usually, besides the difficulty in swallow- » of a burning or stabbing pain at some one part of the throat; he has often the sen- 1 ii m as if several little knots or bladders had formed and burst, after which a wound, rj|c r sensitive to the touch, remains for some time. These sensations, as well as their - -] es, alternate irregularly. The patient f as frequently the sensation of a circular con- i tion at the upper part of the ossophayus. I have noticed this disease in young and old i ] ons, and always perceived a certain disposition to previous, though inconsiderable timic affection of the skin. The resemblance of the symptoms may mislead to the | umption of an organic stricture, and many patients in this condition have been sent teiflj e by distinguished practitioners ; but an examination, with the oesophageal sound is, i ccount of the excessive sensibility of the throat, impossible, and the alternation of ; i symptoms, and especially the peculiar appearance of the back of the pharynx, can " 1 e determine the diagnosis. The treatment is one of the most difficult questions. In : , i rang man the disease had withstood, for many years, the most different and severe Jedies, both internal and external, employed by several practitioners; at last he sub- J edto mine; but, up to the present time, the observations I have made point out no . iitiite rule. Close consideration of all the previous circumstances, and constitutional i dons, must lead the practitioner in the treatment, which requires equal perseverance ■ i he part of both him and the patient. In one instance, repeatedly touching the back 11«tie pharynx with lunar caustic seemed effective. To a certain extent this condition i I be compared with the spasmodic contractions of the sphincter, in fissura ani. 1. 602. The prognosis, in stricture of the oesophagus, depends on the d and seat of that affection. The simple, membranous stricture *jllts a favourable prognosis, and may be completely got rid of by :>er treatment. Callous and scirrhous stricture rarely allows any sk to its development, and, when once existing, its alleviation is cely possible, and still less its cure. Spasmodic stricture may mostly 'Spot r‘d by proper treatment; the disease however often recurs, is fluently very stubborn, and may run into organic stricture. In svvell- ! ^ "'"'ell compress the oesophagus, the prognosis depends on their nature JnIrmrV ^OOPER (“)'mentions a case in which, during stricture of the crsophaqus, ' l,v .,,4 m. fr°m b outwards by ulceration ; the patient was kepi alive some I fiftq Tnlfnng trough an elastic catheter.—J. F. S.] • • n those cases in which the alteration of the mucous membrane H ^fl’hagus depends on chronic inflammation, a strict attention to ° i- in° accompanied at first with antiphlogistic treatment, :nia nfi60 i^| the continued internal use of hydrochlorate of am- 'ivation , e . ck’ of mercury, of iodide of potash, with simultaneous h caref lilssues’ birUir emetic ointment, setons, and the like, together w s is hn U y'reSu ated living, are required. The progress of the stric- > wever, rarely checked by these means; and its existence may be IJ (°) MS. Lectures.322 TREATMENT OF ascertained in addition to the symptoms described, by the introduction of a sound, in the way presently to be described, which finds a distinct obstruc- tion, and is stopped at the seat of stricture. . . . > 1604 The introduction of an oesophageal sound is the most simple remedy to get rid of an existent narrowing, by gradual extension. I In, Client in membranous stricture ensures a satisfactory result; ,n callem and scirrhous stricture it is never, according to my experience, to In I relied on The introduction of the sound has frequently only the palta. free effect of prolonging the patient’s life, by the passage of food into the Itomach In such casls, however, the irritation of the sound may, with, out delay, drive on the stricture into malignant degeneration and ulcerauou 1605 The introduction of a sound into the mophagus must be cojn ducted with the greatest care and delicacy, or otherwise injury to the wall, of the ZmvhaqL, false passages, and hastening the miserable end oftho disease will be produced. The following is the best mode of proceed- Sf The patient sits upon a chair, his head moderately thrown tack, and held by an assistant, his mouth wide open, and tongue a httie pro- truded (1) ^ The oesophageal sound provided with a leaden stilette, dlffl t f! curved at its tip, is then introduced into the gullet, and gently ouied onw^I men i? has reached the seat of stricture, care mas, V taken, and an attempt made, by gentle - gerrughihe szx x ursi?, a ^ one must b.i chloseu and «dln ^hd°aSfi-Ms ^SaiLidT^fr, ^ : the parts may become accustomed to the irritation, and J « arsxKtss : Sir *• o, tx *35 ■ £R£SfWS5t£?XX.'XA * foMi‘ fThSr^fa^rpV'« yth» "£» 5-? safe wi jgmg I**? fell Fit P («) Richeband, Nosographlo Clururgicale, vol. in. p. -W.323 STRICTURE OF THE (ESOPHAGUS. )und, made of modeller’s wax, may be employed, with which slight pressure may be ,}1 je against the stricture, and an impression of it obtained as I have sometimes Served (2). f n) The practice here recommended, of protruding the tongue, preparatory to i ;ing the sound or bougie, and which, I believe, was first recommended by Home, is v y objectionable, as in proportion must the epiglottis be raised, and greater facility for ,u entrance of the instrument into the windpipe afforded. Moreover, it is quite need- as the passage into the beginning of the oesophagus is rendered easy by placing two \ ;ers of the left hand upon the tongue, and pressing it into the bottom of the mouth, ® ch readily exposes the whole cavity of the pharynx. fjl 2) Asti.ev Cooper (a) used to mention a case of this kind; he had been called to • i-rson with stricture of the (esophagus, and had attempted to introduce an urethral tS gie, but in vain. Another Surgeon was called, who passed an instrument, with # liness, as he said, and then injected some milk and wine through it. A swelling uli lediately arose at the upper end of the breastbone, and the patient cried out, “ Oh 1 :* burn me.” The same evening the man was dead. The instrument had been •li ist through the oesophagus into the anterior mediastinum, into which the fluids had fl i poured. The preparation of the parts is in the Museum at St. Thomas’s Hospital. i. F. S.] . 606. If in this way much expansion of the stricture can be effected, i swallowing be in a corresponding degree improved, for the purpose of 11 aining a continual cure, a sound with an olive-shaped dilator must be .id, which after some days must be changed fora thicker, and, according furcumstances, for the thickest. In introducing a sound with a dilator, t in passing a common sound, care must be taken that the dilator be 4 bed gently through the seat of stricture, which is distinctly marked by f resistance. The instrument is either moved up and down a few times 4 )ugh the stricture, or, when it is ascertained that its thick part is in the jeture, it may be left there for some time, and then drawn back. I I e never observed that in thus doing the patient has suffered much in- '■* venience. The sound with the dilator is generally borne as well as ul common oesophageal sound. When the swallowing has become J feet, the sound should not be given up, but passed once a week or i night, to counteract the disposition to narrowing again, which I J e also endeavoured to prevent by introducing a seton in the neck for ne time. . ;his treatment has, in all cases of membranous stricture in which I have employed it, < :ted a permanent cure. The dilator is either made of ivory, slipped on the-.sound at ;^e distance from its tip, and there fastened, or the sound itself is furniskqd with a ymg enlargement of caoutchouc at the same place. These dilators are of various ; Jkness, up to an inch in diameter. The mere introduction of a common sound, up to argest size, may relieve and improve the patient’s condition for some time, and may y luce even complete freedom of swallowing ; but a permanent result is not thereby momy produced; earlier or later the disease recurs. UT use of bougies, armed with lunar caustic, for the destruction of stricture of the •4r\ • must considered highly dangerous in every form of the disease, i v * lnft.e^ °f the gradual violent extension of the stricture, employs an oval t iio» 3 °r’ , ,lca be uses either alone or with a sound, or with a sound armed with ;lft’ PaSSe( “*ree or f°ur times through the stricture. * tim^fif1* USCS f metallic instrument, which either serves for tearing, or merely 1 lehcc -,e iStn<Ttur , esophagus. It is curved in front, consists of three close-lying fwigtin J'th "he"the instrument is introduced into the stricture, they are separated fit diffipiiii 6 ,d. . e use °fthis instrument is, in my opinion, accompanied with i whSXJi , ’ln stricture deeply situated, it is not at all efficient. The introduction jading the sSct^^Unot^oper.38&*,roban®’ with a sPonSe ^ for the PurP0Se ) Homk, above cited MS- Lectures- > Philadelphia Mpdili i , (e) Gendrin, Du Catheterisme curatif du Re- ) Above cited. ecorder, Jan., 18-o. trecisseraent de l’a5sopliaee ; in Journal des Con- naissances Medico-Chirurgicales. Nov., 1827. Y 2324 NARROWING AND 1607 In membranous stricture, besides the above-described, no further treatment is necessary. In callous and scirrhous stricture, the previous mentioned (par. 1603) treatment, both internal and external, must lie I simultaneously employed. Spasmodic stricture requires.the use of anti- snasmodic remedies, especially ipecacuanha in small doses, an the appli- cation of emp. belladon. around the neck. The introduction of the sound has often, in these cases, better effect than any other treatment. t r, i v, the congestion about the chest must be relieved by strict atten- ti.^t^hTmode oflmng, tbe bloid^ust te^Werted^toth^o^^pa^^upp^reswdmra. aud strengthen the cellular tissue connecting that tube to the aiteries. 1 BJ 1608. If the sound be used for the purpose of introducing strong broth, one should be employed which has a funnel-shaped horn mouthpiece. The sensation of warmth which the patient feels in the epigastric region is a proof that the fluid has entered the stomach. Previous to adnmnstenng the fluid attention should be paid to the symptoms described (par 1605> as occurring on accidental introduction of the sound into the windpipe. The Dysphagia Pa™}y£c“ cannot"Son any decided ^tetade^any pm Si 3$ quently there is a greater or less degree of accompany be sufficient!; LoSS” Ite W gSes if lilt. rad. pgrethri especially useful, als. Hi* to the neck, and arnica. I i;v; : h ups It. ft B& yill OF NARROWING AND CLOSURE OF THE RECTUM. Pappendorf, De ano infantum imperforate. Lugd. Batav., 1751. Lit Remarques sur differens Vices de Conformation a 1’Anus, que les enfou appOTtent en naisslce ; in Mem. de V Acad, de Chirurg., vol. up. 377. Stipr. Luiscius, Ueher Verschlossenheit des Afters; in Hufela Journ. der ausland Med.-Chir. Literat., vol. n. pt. u. p. 50. Jolliet, in Journ. de Medecine, Chirurgie et Pharmacie, par Leroux, vol. P Metzler, Ueber die widernatiirlichen Verengerungen des Mastdarmes; m B®* land’s and Himly’s Journal, vol. vi. pt. i. 1811. von Wr, Beobachtungen iiber Verwachsung des Mastdarmes. I t • Copeland, Thomas, Obse^ationsonthepriuHpal Di^i^sof particularly Stricture of the Rectiun, &c. London, > White, M„ Observations on Strictures of the Rectum and other affections. 1820; Third Edition. . . m) Howship J A., Practical Observations on the symptoms, discrimination, an rnent of some ot the most common Diseases of the Lower Intestines and Ant* London, 1820. 8vo. . ,s9n Wandesleben, F , Dissertatio de Intestini Recti Stnctnra. Hal. 1 - • ^ Calvert, George, Practical Treatise on Hemorrhoids or Piles, Stnctur . important Diseases of the Urethra and Rectum. London, 1824. by Salmon Fred., A Practical Essay on Stricture of the Rectum, > 0r(rans v showing the connexion of that disease with affections of the U .^jEditiff Uterus with Piles, and various constitutional complaints. London, - , Hedenus, A.V., Ueber die verschiedenen Formen der Verengerungen und deren Behandlung. Leipzig, 1828. tfifCLOSURE OF THE RECTUM. 325 | Flachs, Dissert, de Atresia Ani congenita. Lipsise, 1834. r T\nchou, S., Traite des Re'tre'cissements du Canal de l’Uretre et de l’lntestine H etum, contenant l’apprcciation des divers moyens employe's dans le Traitement de ces dadies. Paris, 1835. 8vo. , „ Brodie, Sir B. C., Clinical Lecture on Stricture of the Rectum, &c.; in London Ejdical Review, vol. xvi. 1835. a Bushe, George, M.D., A Treatise on the Malformations, Injuries, and Diseases of , ■ Rectum and Anus. New York, 1837. 8vo. ISyme, James, On Diseases of the Rectum. Edinburgh, 1837. 8vo. Avon Ammon, Chirurgische Pathologic in Abbildungen, part i. pi. x.. 1609. Closure of the Rectum (Imperforatio, Atresia Ani, Lat.; Ver- st Uiessung des Mastdarmes, Germ. ; Imperforation du Rectum, Fr.) is . Lays a vice of the first formation; but Stricture (Strictura Ani, Lat.) serengerung des Mastdarmes, Germ. ; Retrecissement du Rectum, Fr.) ,snst usually arises subsequently, and is rarely congenital. J1610. The congenital closure of the rectum depends either on a simple imbrane, which more or less resembles the general coverings or the I ;estinal membrane of the gut, and is situated either immediately at the anal n urture, or more or less high in its cavity ; or there is not a trace of anus, } d the rectum opens more or less high in a blind sac. Those cases of ■ngenital malformation must be now also mentioned, in which the rectum, iH ens into the urinary bladder, urethra, or some other aperture, whilst the y. .us is closed. . Compare von Ammon (a) upon the unnatural openings of the anus, and the other ^formations therewith connected. 1611. Closure of the rectum always causes violent forcing and strain- ; with which, nothing being discharged by the anus, painful tension the belly, vomiting of green or yellowish matter, arise; and to these umptoms convulsions are afterwards added. If the rectum be closed a simple membrane, it is, especially when the child cries, protruded ■ .e a sac, and the meconium is seen through it. If the closing membrane higher, it is ascertained by the introduction of the finger or of an ' istic sound. [Although imperforation of the anus or rectum is generally soon discovered by the 1 Aid not passing motions, yet a case is mentioned by Wolff (A), in which it was not | and out till the evening of the twelfth day after birth, when the child was attacked with uniting, hiccough, and convulsions; the belly was very full and tender. The anus -'.(is found imperforate, but the gut could not be opened by a lancet thrust in to the depth two inches. A pharyngotome was then passed up, and with it an aperture made, d by the use of clysters and tents the child ultimately recovered.] 1612. If the external opening of the rectum be closed by skin, it is fficient to thrust into it a straight bistoury, and to enlarge the wound 1 Jh a button-ended bistoury on a director; and, if it seem necessary, the •ps thus formed may be removed with the scissors. If the closed part the rectum be higher up, a narrow, straight bistoury must be intro- iced, in a proper direction, upon the forefinger of the left hand, or upon director, through the closing membrane, and the opening thus made en- rged with the button-ended bistoury ; a trochar or a pharyngotome will iswer the same purpose. Tins treatment is, according to the kind of 0sure, accompanied with more or less difficulty ; the expanded part of e rectum, instead of the seat of closure, may be lighted on, and fatal usion into the jrelvis follow. The closed part may be hard, callous, car- t'd Cited at head of article. (6) Lanoknbeok’s Bibliothek, vol. iii. p. 231.CONGENITAL CLOSURE 326 tila«inous, and very thick. rlo prevent tlie re-closure of the recturA it • is necessary to insert a plug of lint, fastened up with strii)s of stickingitff plaster, and with a thread attached to it, for a long while in the cavity of the gut, or to introduce the finger, well oiled, from time to time into the rectum, as the disposition to re-close is often very considerable (a). J; 1613. When there is no trace of an external anal opening, tiie difficulty!-,■ of the operation depends on the higher or lower position of the blind end . of the rectum. If there be no fluctuating swelling, no accompanying pro- iection or depression, which can direct the practitioner, he then, after carefully introducing a catheter into the bladder, and in a female a sound into the vagina, for the purpose of emptying the urine, and distinguishing, during the operation, the position of the bladder and vagina, makes a cut with a pointed bistoury between the beginning of the raphe and the coccyx, in such way, however, that there be an inch distance between the latter and the cut, as in children the rectum does not lie so close to the coaM as in adults. Having penetrated about half an inch, the finger of the left ^ hand must be introduced into the wound, the blind end of the gut soughtpj for, and then the cut is to be cautiously continued more deeply, following, as far as possible, the course of the straight gut, and taking care not to wound the bladder or vagina. When the cavity of the rectum is penetrated, the aperture made must be enlarged with the button-ended bistoury, on the. fino-er or on the director, and the dressing to prevent the re-closure apph®' in °he usual way. If the penetration have reached a depth of two inches, without coming to the gut, it has been advised to proceed with tM operation by thrusting a trochar towards the blind end of the rectum; the objection, however, seems to be correct, that the operation is equally! hazardous and useless, as, although the gut may be opened, effusion ol meconium into the belly is the consequence (h). Here also may be men- tioned Amussat’s (1) mode of practice, in which he draws forth the blutt sac of the intestine exposed by the cut, opens it, and attaches the cut edges of the gut to the edges of the external skin. (1) Amussat (c) found, on introducing his finger into thevamm,>*.“ “J on the top of the sacro-vertebral articulation, which he took for the end ^ He made one transverse cut behind the proper seat of thejmw, and then_ another reached the coccyx. Through this T cut he introduced his finger, cafrying U along ^ sacrum to the end of the gut, and therewith broke down the adhesions; he the £ the intestine, with a pair of forceps, to the external opening, cut into it, and fixed ^ two stitches, so that the mucous membrane overlapped the edge of the externa ^ [Sometimes the two portions of the ileo-colic valve are adherent to each oth , *- . .i loo*! thp nrpsumntion of the large General Lying-in Hospital, in tne summer oi io%z. auc ™,“u did not June 6; and some hours after, no motion having passed, castor oil was Au d d ^ operate. On the evening of the same day, an elastic catheter was introduce Return, to the extent of two o, three inches, and no obstruct™n tarn. £ castor oil was repeated, but did not produce any stools. On the following m evening or mis uay i saw uei. uu - - yin(i finger up about two inches, but not farther, and the gut seemed to termina ‘ ider pouch; no sensation of fluctuation above could be felt; and I thereforeidid not c® ng myself justified in passing a trocar, without knowing where it might go, ^ desirous to give the child a chance of life, I determined on making an art ing For this purpose 1 cut upon the tinea alba about half au inch above the pubes, a , P®1 (a) Henkel, Neue Bemerk., fuse. i. p. H vAdecine, Is35’ (b) ZANO.Dnrstcll.blut.hcilk. Opemt., vol. iii. (c) Archives generalcs de M pt.il. p.436. P-~d'-OF THE RECTUM. 327 -j « peritonaeum, caught up a portion of small intestine, and having cut into it, fixed the t edges by stitches to the wound in the linea alba. Soon a quantity of meconium passed, d continued to do so on the day following; but on the third day she began to vomit e and frothy mucus, and at 2 p.m. died. On examination, the gut was found adherent , i the wound. The colon was quite empty and contracted to the size of a crow-quill, i t it was continuous with the rectum, and both intestines were quite pervious. The <rer had been prevented passing up the rectum by a sudden turn, at which part it 3 is close bound down to the sacrum. The jejunum and ileum were much distended with ,, cal matter; and on slitting open the latter, the two portions of the ileo-colic valve t;re so nearly adherent, that nothing would pass through, although there was a very * ■ tall aperture.—J. F. S.] t 1614. When the rectum opens into the vagina, a director must, if pos- tie, be introduced through the latter into the anus, thrust down verti- > lly, and, when its position has been ascertained by the forefinger, a draight bistoury or a trochar must be thrust through the closed anal >■§ lerture, towards the groove of the director, and the puncture afterwards ^larged in the manner described. This practice is, however, generally 5uitless, and it is preferable to divide, through the vagina, all the parts ,ck into the rectum, and by the insertion of lint, or, still better, by the ily introduction of the finger, oiled, to prevent the re-union. & In one case, in which this treatment was in vain, as the artificial opening of the rec- m n closed again, whilst the opening of the vagina remained, Barton (a) employed the sallowing method with success. He passed a director through the hole of communica- .1 i<n in the vagina, and divided the whole wall of the vagina to the place where the j ,'tural opening of the rectum should be. He did not use any dressing, but every day (j ssed the finger, smeared with cerate, into the rectum to prevent it closing. The vagina •_us perfect, and the rectum had a direct opening, except that the stools passed involun- rily. Satchell (b) also, and I myself have by this practice obtained like favourable . suits. Velpeau (c) had proposed this operation on the recommendation of Vicq. .s:Aztr. After the division is perfected, a canula should be introduced into the rectum, ot:ed towards the hind angle of the wound, by means of which the aperture must be -reserved, and the divided parts enabled to unite in front. it|Dieffenbach (d) introduced a director much bent inwards, through the vagina into the iierture of the rectum, thrust a pointed bistoury close behind the fossa navicularis into the i foove of the director, and cut out from thence with the point of the knife, at the same ?ine dividing the whole perinceum and widening the aperture of the anus, at a single -•t iroke, to near the coccyx. The rectum was laid bare by the division of the cellular a -sue, stretching forwards to the vagina, and presenting at the bottom of the wound, uje then dissected the edge of the rectum from the wound he had made, divided to the • ;tent of an inch in the direction of the external skin and the muscular wound, and i stened the separated edges of the rectum on each side of the cleft perinceum. The ■ >erture of the rectum in the vagina closed very completely during the after-treatment f occasionally touching it with lunar caustic. On the complete cure of all the wounded irts, three weeks after the first operation, the formation of a new perinceum was tempted. The hind surface of the open end of the rectum was farther separated from ® vagina. The portion of intestine thus set free in the middle, contracted remarkably, id receded about four or five lines. The scar of muscle and skin was removed from ie thus formed interstice, the deeper-lying parts were brought together with a needle- itch, but the edges of the wound with two very short harelip-pins and the twisted ‘ture. The cure was completely successful. 1615. When the rectum opens into the urethra, a sound must be passed y the latter into the bladder, and the unnatural opening in the urethra ivided upon it towards the coccyx, and with some cautious strokes of the nife the aperture in the urethra and the wall of the intestine opposite the ace of the anus divided. If possible, the sound should be brought rough the unnatural opening in the urethra, into the cavity of the °f Medicine and Sureery- (Cl Elemens de Mod. Oper., vol. ii. p. 979. |(6) Ibid. * "* * W Ueber die Verschliessung des Afters; in IIkcker'b Annalen. 1826, Jan. p. 31.328 OPERATION FOR CONGENITAL rectum, and such direction given it, that it may be distinctly felt from the 1 perinceum, and the covering of the urethra divided in the course of the raphe, together with the wall of the straight gut opposite the place of the anus, or treated according to Amussat’s plan (par. 1613.) When the rectum opens into the urinary bladder, it is possible for a girl to live, on account of the shortness and extensibility of the urethra; but in a boy this malformation is fatal, if the wall of the rectum, opposite the place of the anus be not open, or an artificial anus made. In a case, in which the rectum was imperforate, and opened into the bladder Fergusson (a) made a cut into the neck and body of the bladder at the place of the anus. [Cbuvelhier (6) gives an instance in which the rectum opened under the glans penis, 4 by means of a canal which was formed in the substance of the raphe scroti. A similar case to this occurred to me, and will be described at the end of par. 1617.—J. F. S.] 1616. In all cases, where, by the above-mentioned modes of treatment, opening the imperforate end of the rectum is impossible, or when the rectum terminates by a blind end in the belly, as also in the not-to-be- > overlooked narrowing of the rectum by unreachable strictures and the like, some assistance, though not much, may be afforded by the formation of an artificial anus at the lower end of the colon, (laparo-colotomia,) which may be performed in two ways. First, A cut from an inch and i a half to two inches long is to be made obliquely from behind forwards,i so that its lower end should be a little below the upper front iliac a spine, and half an inch from it, and continued, layer after layer, through^ the skin and muscles; the peritonceum is then carefully opened, raising it with the forceps, and the sigmoid flexure of the colon sought for, drawn» to the wound, two waxed threads carried round it, and a longitudinal cut having been made in it, returned into the belly; and, by means of the threads, retained between the edges of the external wound with which > it unites (1), Second, In order not to wound the peritonceum, a cut, three > inches in length, must be made, according to Callisen’s (2) method, in the left lumbar region, between the iliac crest and the short ribs, on the front edge of the m. quadratus lumborum, at which part the descending colon lies enclosed in cellular tissue external to the peritonceum, and is here to be opened (c). Amussat makes a transverse cut two inches above the iliac crest, from the outer edge of the m. quadratus lumborum to the middle of the iliac crest, through the skin and abdominal muscles, thus cutting across the m. transversalis and its aponeurotic layer, then separates the fatty tissue which covers the gut, passes two threads through its trail, to prevent it falling together; then stabs the colon with a trocar, enlarges the aperture with the bistoury in several directions, and connects it by four stitches to the front corner of the wound (3). (1) This operation was proposed by Littre in 1720 ; but first practised success fully by Dinet in 1793 (d). See also Freer (e). (2) This mode was tried by Roux without success. (3) Amussat has performed this operation successfully in a woman of forty-eight and in a man of sixty-two years of age (/). Pilore (</) made an artificial anus on the right side, by which he opened the cttc,in (а) Edinb. Med. and Surg. Journ., vol. xxxvi. p. 363. 1831. (б) Anat. pathol., livr. i. pi. v. 1. fig. 6. (c) Svstcma Cbirurgitc Medicinro, vol. ii. p. 842. Hafn., 1817. (ri) Sabatier, Med. Oper., vol. ti. p. 336. (e) Prino; in London Medical and Phjs Journal, vol. xlv. p. 9. 1821. (/) Memoir? sur la possibilite d'etabliron An Artinciel dans la region lombaire sans pene dans le peritoine. Paris 1832. (g) Aetcs de la Societe de Lyon. 179/■ P-329 CLOSURE OF THE RECTUM. ,i previously advised by Benjamin Bell, and as was to be done in the immobility of f o S. Romanum. The formation of an artificial anus has been also proposed in adults, for the not-to-be- ■rerlooked narrowing of the rectum from unreachable strictures, and the like. Freer (a) nade a longitudinal cut, of three inches, in the left iliac region, about an inch above i, e upper front iliac spine, and an inch and a half in front of it, laid bare the colon listened it with two stitches in the wound, and opened it longitudinally to the extent of jjifo inches. The patient died on the tenth day. Pring (6) made a cut obliquely down- wards, and inwards two inches above, and an inch on the inner side of, the front iliac .j)iine, to within three-quarters of an inch of Poupart’s ligament, through the skin and * uscles; opened the peritonaeum, and enlarged it to three inches. The sigmoid flexure ;is' the colon was laid bare to the wound. The result was successful. ■p Compare also Martland, a case in which the operation for artificial anus was success- is lly performed; in Edinb. Med. and Surg. Jour., vol. xxiv. p. 271. 1825. S7 Svxtzer, E., Anotationes in Colotomia. Hafnse, 1827. ;T; Oettinger, Ueber die angeborene Aftersperre. Miinchen, 1826. a. Loper, Dissert, de Yitiis fabric® primitivse Intestini Recti. Wirceb., 1827. ** Klewitz ; in Med. Zeit. des Verein. fur Heilk; in Preuss., No. 17, 1835,—No 2-> B38. a Although in imperforate anus, if no assistance be rendered, fatal consequences rt isue, in consequence of the stools not being passed; there are, however, instances in t .hich, with imperforate anus. and even with accompanying deficient urethral opening, I jve has been sustained months (c), and even years (d) ; in which cases the stools have wen vomited by the mouth. 1617. When the anus, though not imperforate, is yet congenitally nar- jnved, the existing aperture must be enlarged by means of a button-ended tastoury and director, and then its reunion prevented by the introduction : f lint. This congenital narrowing of the rectum may be to such extent, aat so long as, during infancy, the stools have little hardness and thick- ?L3ss, it is of no consequence, but as the child grows, and the motions Mocome larger, inconvenience arises (e), and the treatment must be such as : ready mentioned. t [I had under my care, very many years ago, a case of imperforate anus (f) milar to that mentioned by Cruvelhier. At the time of birth there was not any ' oenrag, but a slight puckering marked the place of the amis, and this was protruded u lch time the child cried. In front of the scrotum, and in the track of the raphe as it issed on to the prepuce, was a small aperture, just large enough to admit the entrance a probe, and from it, when the child cried, a small quantity of meconium passed I ‘ the Puckered skl“. hut it was full an inch before the rectum could be reached id I then opened it sufficiently to admit a large urethral bougie, and the meconium •ad ly escaped. A probe, introduced at the opening before the scrotum, passed alone a mal, beneath the urethra, through the perinaeum, becoming larger and lareer as it oproached the rectum, in which it terminated. No bougie, or anything else, was left J i, as I thought keeping the bowels loose would have been sufficient to prevent union • CTSe °f/ f0rtnXht the ™d had cl0Sed- aad no W^ passed,’ ! aperture in front of the scrotum. I therefore had to cut into the rectum ^or four re ,b°Te was tbeu ln‘rotduced, to he worn constantly, but removed It nrnllhl V f°r emPt>'lng the howels. This went on very well for a time fro™ negligence, the scar contracted, and at the end of three months the '1 dSl W°U,ld ,n0t admit ?ven the P°int of a Prohe. The scar wasXrefor? iort d‘' d ,aild a larger bougie introduced, and worn for a fortnight, after which a i -event it slinffin^ ab°.ut1th? thickness of the little finger, with a circular shoulder’to 'ntinual V )v ?ga “d S7 " ‘ ^ waf, n;tr°duced, so that the motion might pass ipped out 7n A d *h,U 0p?ni!lg established. Two months after, the pipe having .rgffig whh hl.hrnfn?8 UCte<. ’ ‘htL0Peni,)g had again closed, and again required em (.TIKd.^, af tUle- Th' .gain lompdkd ■’ SDA?o^.in‘ Jo"eMedecine, vol. AAv^ '-13’ (/) St. Thomas's Hospital Reports?pi* j 21. London, 1836. 8vo Malad. Chirurg., vol.SPASMODIC CONTRACTION 330 the dilatation of the aperture with the knife, and a large bougie was directed to be passed • frequently. I did not again see him until he was seven years old, when he was a well- grown boy, but with an enormously distended belly. The anus continued open, though not very sufficiently, and the orifice before the scrotum was still open, and,occasionally iuo. tion passed by it. I was desirous of removing this unnatural canal, but the mother va* averse to it, and the child’s unhealthy appearance did not lead me to expect that he would live very long. I had entirely forgotten him, when, eleven years after, (he being , then eighteen years old,) I was surprised on seeing a fine healthy young man who said he was the person on whom I had previously operated. The appearance of the am could be compared to nothing else than a bullet-hole in a board: he said he had no difficulty in passing or retaining his motions; but it was quite evident, from Ins linen, that there was a continual oozing. The opening in front, instead of being n<*r die frcenum prceputii, was now close to the scrotum, and a small quantity of stool occasionally escaped from it. On examining more closely, I found the anal orifice completely filled I with a protruded portion of the lining of the rectum ; it, however, oflered no obstruction to the finger, which readily passed up as far as the knuckle, and was received into a large cavity full of feculent matter, and running forward along the penncEum, beneath the * membranous part and the bulb of the penis, to the back of the scrotum where the canal narrowed, and would only admit the finger ; with this the opening before the scmm communicated. It was carious, in this case, that although there was an entire absence , of the sphincter muscle, the stools did not pass involuntarily ; the protruded fold of the internal membrane seemed to form a valve which prevented ordinarily theesape of the stool, and compensated the deficiency of the sphincter. I proposed to him the re moval of the continuation of the bowel into the perineum, but he would not submit to any operation. I have not seen him for the last eleven years. J. h. b.J 1618. The narrowing of the rectum, which takes place in later jears, arises either from spasmodic contraction oj the m. sphincter ani, or fiapt * a thickening, swelling, or degeneration of the mucous or other membrane*, of the rectum, or from swellings in the neighbourhood of the rectum, or . from large scars, which have formed near the anal aperture. ‘ !619 The spasmodic contraction of the anus is, for the most part, ac- companied with a fissure, or with a cleft in the folds of the muscle • though it is, however, seen without either. Adults appear to be almost exclusively subject to this complaint, and women more than men. Its causes are very obscure ; it is frequently pr^eded^ by hemorrhoidal congestion, or it occurs after the removal of piles- It**™ probable, according to some, that the fissure is produced by the contraction, than that the latter is caused by the fissure. From my own observations, however, I hold the contrary opinion 1620. The disease develops itself very stealthily ; at first t 1 are accompanied with heat and burning, which, however gradud^ sub- side, and often cease entirely, if the patient take heating drinks, use clysters, and wash frequently with cold water. The sensation oflm | burning soon, however, returns, and continues for a longer time, after ggj to stool. The relief of the bowels is mixed with b food, the pain inC fJ*Jh aperients, clysters, and cooling diet, indeed, produce alleviation, though only for a short time, and the complaint proceeds m spite of their e> pl^ ment Going to stool becomes so difficult, that the bowels cai . be forced eve'ry forty-eight hours, by a purge, by repeated clystere o » jections thrown up every hour. If the costiveness continuemevem day-, ^ relief is followed by pain as severe as if a hot iron w^e thru t ^ rectum; even convulsions and fainting may ensue, and after the r ^ , the bowels, there remain pain, shooting, and beating, taken in | irirt Every violent efiort, the use of too heating food, or , too great quantity, always aggravates the coin plaint, and the j*\ ;n i0. , forefusua'ly taka dot little nourishment. In females, the l«m •*» ■ ■ ■■331 OF THE ANUS. aj-eases at the coming on of the menstrual periods, and also arises from every ukertion, cough, jumping, making water, and the like. Some patients, in 4!iis disease cannot sit, whilst others cannot stand. In consequence of this iSmtraction, very large quantities of stool are retained, the pressure of ,, hich, against the anus, causes long-continued and fruitless straining, and ies discharge can only be produced by injections, or by the mucus which ■trie intestine secretes; even the escape of air is often accompanied with lin. When the disease has long continued, wasting takes place from the .■ji-verity of the pain, and disturbance of the rest, very great sensibility, ( ‘ten hypochondriasis, and affections of the neighbouring organs, as oBtention of urine. 1 1621. On examining the external orifice of the rectum, hemorrhoidal unmours or little knots are often found ; also, in some cases, a slight dis- .sparge, which symptoms, according to Boyer, not in immediate relation kith the complaint, on the contrary, are so, according to my experience, :aijs, after the removal of such knots, I have noticed a speedy cure. In those ; ises in which contraction of the anus is accompanied with fissure, the ji wer end of the latter is found at the part where the patient feels pain, . bually in the right or left side of the circumference of the anus : in most i ises it, however, can only be seen, when the buttock of the affected side i . forcibly drawn back, and the anal orifice drawn a little asunder, in many ises, indeed, the fissure cannot, even in that way, be discovered. The : traduction of the finger into the rectum, which always causes severe and tmost unbearable pain, if it press on the fissure, discovers a violent, per- manent contraction, but neither swelling nor hardening of the mucous embrane: but at one spot, a lengthy indentation running the length :f the intestine may be found; or the fissure is distinguished by the peculiar din which the patient feels when pressure is made upon it. ! ?s [Bhodie observes, that, “ in connexion with the spasmodic contraction of the ■ hinder muscle, you will frequently find a small ulcer of the mucous membrane of ,e rectum. This ulcer is always in a particular spot, at the posterior part, opposite to e point of the os cocci/gis. I imagine that it arises from the mucous membrane there :ing torn by the pressure of the hard faces, at the time that the evacuation is labour- g, as it were, to get through the contracted orifice of the anus. Such an ulcer as I ive just described adds very much to the patient’s sufferings. It is always excessively nsitive; the least pressure of the finger upon it occasions the patient the greatest pain, id the pressure of solid faces produces the same effect, (p. 26.) Bushe (a) speaks of another form of spasmodic contraction of the sphincter ani, in nich no primary affection of the gut is discoverable, and in which the introduction of e finger into the gut does not give pain. (p. 126.)] 1622. Spasmodic contraction of the anus may be distinguished from s narrowing, by the swelling, and by the disorganization of its mucous lembrane, by the pain which accompanies going to stool, and continues >me time after, by the absence of discharge of matters, by the long-con- nuance of the complaint, and by the introduction of the finger beyond ie contraction of the sphincter, discovering neither tubercle nor hard ng formed by the internal membrane of the rectum. The characteristic ign is the fixed pain at one spot of the circumference of the anus. It ms not, however, be overlooked, that continued spasmodic contraction gnadually c.auses a greater development and activity of the up o-n/ % af/-H/.° exudation, organic changes, and thickening of fr0m the constant irritation. 1 he remedies employed for spasmodic contraction are, cooling (a) Above cited.332 TKEATMENT OF SPASMODIC treatment, the avoidance of all heating food and drink, frequent use of , gentle purgatives, and clysters several times a-day, steam-baths of hot water decoction of chervil, infusion of elder flowers, cold hip-bath, whole or half bathing, application of leeches, narcotic injections, suppositories of opium, hyoscyamus and belladonna, a dram of acetate of lead, a dram I of extract of belladonna with six drams of fat, according to Dufuytiien s Description, opiate ointment; also, a salve, composed of equal parts of lard expressed juice of houseleek, nightshade, and sweet almonds. *1 These remedies, indeed, relieve the patient, but are nearly always inefficient for the cure and even commonly for assuaging the complaint (1). Any » attempts to enlarge the anal orifice with bougies, according to Boyek and others, increases the pain and contraction. Beclard (a) has, how- ever employed masses of lint, of gradually increased thickness, to cure the spasmodic contraction of the rectum without fissure According to Seeaporte (b) the bougie should be smeared with belladonna ointment. ^ prefers this to cutting, and does not object to touching the fissure at the same time with caustic, by which the pain is suddenly got rid of : he men- tions instances in which cutting was of no service. According to Bpshe c) all purgatives should be avoided, as they always irritate ; a lmseed cl,, er daily together with careful cleansing of the parts, is preferable. If the M disease be slight, the application of lead ointment may be sufficient, and m violent spasm, extract of belladonna at the same time. In superfioa fissures, lunar caustic should be used, and with it a dressing of lmt sprad with one part of extract of belladonna, and seven parts of ung. rosat. (2)J According to Pag en (d) the parts should be smeared with a mixture e ■ n^prate and extract of moncecia; and Bretonneau (e) recom-|j of opiui f il tanv i jiave in some instances, effected a cureat smeared with tine «**-£ t°uc r er t >y 1 agcertaine(| by0experience, that spasmodic contraction of the. T and little excrescences about the female urethra, after Ilia jam “iTmovai of wtoh the most severe symptoms of difficulty to-** ivater quicklyf-Mda I SedruU^whicflsoLn useless, if too iongdelayed till to** mentioned changes of the rectum have occurred (3). (Prsf fl one case, in which the spasmodic contraction of ^ ^ , M- i ISM D 109 (rf) Gazette Medicale, vol. vUi. P- /„) Bulletin des Sciences Med., 1825, p. l»». jA J (fc) Revue Medicale, vol. h. P- HO. ^ Tbousseau; in same. No. 36. (c) Above cited, p. 137.CONTRACTION OF THE ANUS. 333 • without fissure, if it withstand the previous treatment, is, to cut into e edge of the anus, either at the seat of the fissure or at any other part, he patient should take a mild purgative three days before, and on the orning of the operation a clyster to empty the bowel, and to avoid the .jessity of going to stool for some days. lie should be laid upon his de, as in the operation for fistula in ano, the forefinger of the left hand, led, passed into the rectum, and a narrow, button-ended bistoury intro- iced flat upon it, the edge of which being turned to the side on which ie fissure is, cuts through with a stroke the intestinal membranes, the i ihincter muscle, the cellular tissue, and common teguments, forming a Jiangular wound, the apex of which corresponds to the cavity of the )wel, and its base to the external skin ; sometimes a lengthening- of the tter is requisite, which must be done with a second stroke of the bistoury. |‘, by the escape of the bowel from the edge of the knife, the wound in f£te cellular tissue be higher than in the intestinal membranes, the latter ! ust be further divided with the knife.or with blunt-pointed scissors. In Wiry violent contraction of the anus, two cuts may be thus made, one on i*ich side, and if the fissure be before or behind, it is not to be included in 'line cut. The success of this operation is often very surprising. £ 1625. The dressing consists of a pretty thick plug of lint between the fges of the wound, upon which some wadding and an oblong pad should ! applied, and the -whole fastened with a T bandage. Bleeding but virely occurs, and is easily stopped by a slight pressure. After three r four days, the first dressing is to be removed, and replaced daily till the i ire is completed, which happens in about four or six weeks. Walther objects the introduction of lint and the like as useless and painful, i Upon this subject, see further, 1. Delpech, Precis Elementaire, vol. i. p. 598. : Boyer; in Journal complementaire du Diet, des Sciences Med. Nov., 1818. Baii.lie, Matth., M.D.; in Med. Trans, of College of Physicians of London, vol. v. 136. ' Gaitskell : in London Med. Repository, vol.iv. p. 51. Blackett ; in same, vol. vii. p. 377. Boyer, Traite des Malad. Chir., vol. x. p. 125. Basedow, Ueber die Strictura Ani spastica; in von Graefe und von Walther’s Durn., vol. vii. p. 125. Nevermann, Ueber die Fissur des Afters oder die Strictura Ani spastica ; in Hol- der’s hannoverischen Annalen, vol. i. p. 729. 1626. The narrowing of the rectum, depending on chronic infiamma- on and incipient degeneration of its mucous membrane, is always of slow reduction. At first there is a troublesome itching in the bowel, and a icretion of muco-purulent fluid. By degrees the patient is attacked ith frequent inclination to go to stool, when he strains much and passes nly ^arfl motions, of thinner size than usual: there is a sensation of ful- ess in the course of the colon, but especially in the region of the sigmoid exure ; going, to stool becomes more painful and difficult, digestion fails, •equent belchings occur, with occasional severe colic ; the collection of uol is often so great that the belly becomes swollen, and inflammation nsues. Frequently, if the narrow part be high up, and the bowel below ave ost its expulsive power, the stools squeeze through the stricture in e pieces, collect beneath it, and are discharged in the ordinary sizedCHRONIC STRICTURE 334 masses. If diarrhoea occur, the patient usually feels more easy. In rare cases there is diarrhoea throughout the whole course ol the disease ; these are of the worst kind, as ulceration is going on simultaneously in the upper part of the intestinal canal. 1627. The disease proceeds more or less quickly according to the dif- ference of constitution; the general health is sometimes affected early, sometimes remains for a long while undisturbed. As the narrowing in- creases, the costiveness becomes greater, the belly harder and fuller; the digestion becomes more affected, the colic more frequent and severe, and the feet swell. From the continuing costivenesss, faeculent vomit- ino-, as well as quickly fatal inflammation of the belly, or perforation of3the intestine above the stricture, may ensue, especially if kernels or other foreign bodies remain sticking in the stricture, and completely close it. If there be perforation, it usually occurs close to the stricture, at one part softened by inflammation, at which the stools are rarely poured forth into the cavity of the peritoneum, but rather into the cellular tissues surrounding the rectum, and gangrenous abscesses form around the anus and on different parts of the buttocks. When these burst, or are opened, a quantity of foetid ichor and motion burst forth, a large part of the coverings becomes gangrenous, and the patient dies quickly, orywrtM form, and the person may live some time in a lamentable condition. The stricture may run on to ulceration ; severe pain, ichorous dischargi and even bleeding then occur ; all assume a carcinomatous character; M> destruction attacks the neighbouring parts, fistula form, the skin about a the anus and on the buttocks, the urinary bladder, the vagina, and womb, are attacked with ulceration ; and when the destruction has extended far, the stools cannot be retained, but pass involuntarily, and the patient dies* exhausted. [“ in some instances,” Brodie states, “ the patient dies with symptoms of hernia • that is, a piece of hard frees is lodged above the stricture and cannotp* through it; thus there is a mechanical obstruction to the passage of l * becomes tympanitic, the tongue dry; there is sickness, vomiting, and theoteW STSfiSg strangulation. He injections and the use of a bougie, may recover; he may have a se<»ncl, a . an(i then he mav have a third, which may prove fatal, (p- . A,™V tom M 3 to relate the case of a who, : uader JJ tlire of the rectum, was obstinately costive. On examination, a j fhf to have lodged just above the stricture; it was removed with stone forceps, recovered.] > 1628. By the chronic inflammation, which causes stricture of the ,j the mucous membrane, the cellular tissue beneath it, and a „ijted. the other membranes, are thickened, till at last the whole: gut The changes which the inflammation produces are either its con into a hard, fibrous, even cartilaginous tissue (1) or into scirrhous dege^ ration, or into ulceration, with or without fibrous, cartilaginous, or cedematous degeneration, or into the formation of i n 0f Si sarcomatous excrescences (2), or into shrivelling a"d contrac the parts at once, so that this part of the gut is diminished to a quill, and its cavity often completely disappears. ndthe-l (Yl) Brodie says“ On dissecting a simple stricture ofthe ! /'“he nuiscalw mucous membrane thickened, of a harder structure than natural ^ tunic thickened also. The stricture sometimes occupies the whole g (n) MS. Lectures. -f. •* ‘t-t* t TiftyWH riOF THE RECTUM. 335 it • some way up, above the anus, perhaps three or four inches; at other times it is only I short extent.” (p. 28.) , . , , , , T •>) This, I presume, is the condition to which Lawrence (a) refers, where he speaks ,1\< auother form of disease, (stricture of the rectum,') in which the mucous membrane -ms to be formed into a large, spongy, soft, excrescence, in which the patient was l ected with all the symptoms that would be produced by stricture; for this spongy state a the membrane diminished the dimensions of the bowel.” (p. 855).—J. F. S.J u 1629. These changes have either a less or a greater extent; commonly, ttey are circular, and the narrowing is so considerable, that an aperture, Jiit larger than a straw, alone remains ; often they occur only at one side r on the edge of the valvules conniventes, in consequence of which cord • bridge-like contractions, single, cone-like growths are produced. These ij owths, of different size, attached with narrow necks or by a broad base, hard, spherical, oval, single, and vegetating sparingly, or growing si xuriantly, collected in wide or thick groups, are often confined to the edge e the rectum, or spread over the whole extent of the cavity of the rec- oin, or even extend into the colon. Although at first insensible, they j ,ow, become painful, and terminate in cancerous ulceration, as already -dtscribed. The distinction between these excrescences and the hard, memorrhoidal knots consists specially in their yellowish red colour, their ■dhooth-skinned, even, tense surface exhibiting not the slightest trace of ood-vessel, in their regular, firm, in some degree elastic consistence, in e absence of all fluctuation, and in their complete insensibility on great essure. The various form and condition of these hardenings depend on e seat, extent, and character of the inflammation and irritation. sI See further on this subject, -JDessault, Squirrhosites du Rectum, in his (Euvres Chir., vol. ii. p. 422. :u Schreger, Ueber tuberculose Excrescenze; in his Chirurg. Versuchen, vol. i. p. 258. Tanchou, above cited. | 1630. Stricture of the rectum, from the above-mentioned changes of h 3 membranes, may happen at all parts of the bowel, but most frequently the region of the internal sphincter, about two or three inches above w ie anus. The knowledge of stricture of the rectum, its seat, nature, id form, is simply and alone to be obtained by examination. On the troduction of the finger, oiled, a narrow, hard, unyielding part is felt, ther as one or several little, projecting folds or partitions, into the open- ig of which the finger can be introduced only with difficulty or pain, or it at all; or as a hardening and contraction of the walls of the gut to a reat extent; or as ulceration, with hard edges ; or as tumours of various "to. The examination should be always made in the recumbent posture, Jcause the valve-like narrowings at the upper part of the gut, which ostly are seated on its front, form a sort of pouch in front, and above ■e narrowed part, which, when the patient stands upright, prevents the <amining finger discovering the stricture. If the narrowing be so 'gh that the finger cannot reach it, the examination must be made ith a wax bougie or a sound covered with modeller’s wax, which, softened M oiled, should be carefully introduced into the rectum, and gently ressed on the seat of stricture, in order to take an impression of it. In orog this, the anatomical relations of the rectum, and the rules subse- "en y laid down for the introduction of the bougie, must be remembered, prevent mistake, as the examination by this mode is much less certain («) Lectures ; in Lancet, vol. ii. 1829-30. >15336 STRICTURE than with the finder. Particular instruments, used for examining stric- tures of the rectum, a stem with a ball, as recommended by I low ship and Calvert, are to be set aside, if the finger can reach the stricture. When the symptoms lead to the supposition of stricture of the rectum, the examination should always be made as soon as possible, m order to discover the disease in its earliest stage of development. [Lawrence (a) observes We cannot, however be certain that stricture of the ret- om is the cause of any of the symptoms under which a patient labours, unless we have the powerofS the contracted part of the gut with the finger, or of ascertaining its ex- fstlnce by an instrument, a rectum bougie, introduced there: and indeed we can hardly Let dear evidence of the fact, when stricture is higher up in the bowel than we can teach with the finger; for you will recollect that the course of the rectum is by no means Itra JlR and the surface of the intestine is not smooth and uniform; in its natural state there are folds and irregularities which present obstacles to the passage of an instru- I „ w it * * * In all instances, therefore, when the disease ot the bowel is si hutted higher up than you can reach with the finger, the evidence is more or less uncer- tain^ unless^the difficulties in the evacuation of the faces, or the peculiar configuration and diminished size of them should be well marked, (p. 856.) Bushe (6) remarks, that “ organic stricture (of the rectum) is supposed by many to be of very1 common occm-rence, bu? I have not found it to be so ; for the cases I have seen bore no portion to the number I ought to have met with, were the statements made inThere has been muchlaid and written as to the usual seat of stricture of tibe redam; it has been said to be most common about the termination of the colon (W hite^ (c), or five Lr sTx inches from the anus, and next in frequency at the junction of the sigmoid Zlnre oUhe colon with the rectum. (Salmon) (d). These, however, must be very rare fnr nll the best authorities declare the stricture to be almost universally low cases, for all t'ie savs-—“ Not unfrequently, the inner edge of the deepspAtw- tZi bS?X ^aLof fiiis^tricture ;and theil the &ger only entlrs to the depth of d, lecZd ioinf when it is obstructed by a sort of membrane standing across the pass^e ,, times the stricture is more than two inches within the anus, and feels like a per- Sometimes tlie sti f , / f ) savs;_»In a few instances the stricture lias been forated septum. CP ^“'i^Xfit could be but barely touched with the point of the’ seated so high up JLc’desired “ to force down,” and then a satisfactory examina- finger, until he patient was desired totoree{, u stricture 0f\he rectum l0" Lr fsaw one case where stricture of the rectum was. about six“bove the up w one case where stricture ot tne rectum was auuu. and I saw another where there was stricture in the sigmoid flexure 9^^ j0T^ vailed among some members of our profession, that a stricture ^ g P almost in („•) Lectures in Lancet, 1829-30, vol. ii. >1 < Piteil at lieail of article. ® Observations on Strictures of the Rectum. Bath, 1810. Third Edition. fat head of article. , On the Diseases of the Urethra, Vesica Urmaica, Prostate ami Rectum. London, 18— surgery, - (/i) Elements of Surgery. (») Principles of Surgery. 8 vo. (/f) Above cited. | i (/) Dublin Hospital Reports, vol. v. t^v (,;) A System of Pathological and Op** Sunzerv, vol. iii. Edinburgh, 1S--*. gvo * * - *■" — London, »<*>«.• Edinburgh* ^337 OF THE RECTUM. ider such a disease, by the introduction of long [bougies into the bowel. The only idence of the existence of a stricture in these cases has been, first, that there a as obstinate costiveness; secondly, that a bougie introduced into the rectum could iit be made to pass beyond a certain number of inches beyond the anus. But what is -n e value of this evidence compared with that which anatomy affords of the rarity of ;>ais kind of stricture ? Are there not many causes of a costive state of the bowels, be- lies mechanical obstruction ? Will it be always easy, even in the most healthy rectum, ■ introduce a bougie more than a few inches into it ? Although we call the lower ' i >wel the rectum, you know very well that it is anything but a straight gut. Three or ur inches above the anus, the rectum begins to make flexures, which increase as you if bee it upwards, imtil they terminate in the sigmoid flexure of the colon. These flexures the rectum differ in different individuals, and even in the same individual, at different •riods. When a bougie is introduced, be it small or large, it is certain that it will be : bpped somewhere or another by one of these flexures ; and nothing can be more un- • lilosophical than to conclude, because a bougie meets with an impediment at the (lis- i \nce of five or six, or eight or nine inches, that this is the result of an organic disease the rectum, when the natural formation of the parts will sufficiently account for it. i\ jut let us suppose that you actually meet with one of those rare cases in which there is (stricture in the upper part of the rectum ; by what means are you to recognise the dis- se in a living person ? Or if you can recognise it, how can you know its exact situa- :: )n ? If the bougie can only be introduced to a certain distance, how are you to be cer- in that it is stopped by the stricture, and not by a fold of the bowel, or even by com- g in contact with the sacrum ? Further than this, if you employ the force which you ould suppose to be necessary to make the bougie penetrate through the stricture, is ere no danger of penetrating the tunics of the intestine instead ? This last is no theo- tical objection to the use of these long bougies in diseases of those parts. I will not y that I have seen the patients; but I have been informed on good authority, of not ss than seven or eight cases in which this frightful accident occurred, and the patients ed in consequence.” (p. 30.) Lastly, Bushe states :—“ Independently of the malignant mis of disease hereafter to be described, I have very seldom seen a contraction of the ctum which was not within the reach of the finger.” (p. 265.) I am afraid that the u inclusion of one of his notes is not without its parallel in this country, and ought to be * ;ld “P to the reproof it richly deserves. “ I am mortified to add,” says he, «that I have hod reason for supposing there are a few who make a profitable trade of treating dys- : :ptic patients for stricture of the rectum, asserting that the obstruction is high up, when truth, this intestine is perfectly free from structural disease. Such practitioners, by issmg bougies, apparently cure, what in reality never existed, and thus obtain a cha- ■ct^for skill in the treatment of this disease, which in truth they do not possess.”— 1631. The immediate cause of stricture of the rectum is always a more r less extensive inflammation or continual irritation of the rectum, in onsequence of which there is secretion of plastic matter, thickening and egeneration of the tissue. The causes are, hsemorrhoidal affections and bdominal plethora, anomalous gout, syphilis, metastasis of skin diseases, jppression of the usual discharges, frequent indigestion, badly treated Titation of the intestinal canal, diarrhoea, improper use of irritating urgatives, constant costiveness, injury of the rectum by foreign bodies, xtirpation of hsemorrhoidal knots, operation for fistula in ano, and . *^7! 513 I have witnessed in two instances. r.i«» VTu6 ProPnos^s differs according to the degree, condition, seat, and -ith 2 str.^ture- Membranous, circular, and strictures unattended isea Jtratl0n’lf not seated high up, lead to a favourable prognosis. If the eated v-e/nore adya!lced>the stricture accompanied with much hardening, ourahlp • Up’,atK lts causes cannot be removed, the prognosis is unfa- '■ ’ PerliaPs bv cautions treatment temporary relief may be lf the stricture have run on to btainpH PerhaPs by cautious treatment temporary relief may Icerathm^ D?r a perfect cure‘ lf the stricture have run or {lent not * Jf patient> generally, can scarcely obtain relief, and any treat esuhs T|SpeCIa ^ cau^10usi renders him worse, and hastens the evil esults VOL, II. pj * i ****** "uiocj dim iici *ne same happens in carcinomatous degeneration.338 TREATMENT OF FBrodie observes, that “ success in the management of this disease will vary very much in different cases. It will depend chiefly on the period of the disease on which vou are consulted. If it he quite in the early stage, you may render the patient great service- and although you cannot cure the stricture of the rectum, any more than you can cure the stricture of the urethra, yet you can dilate it, and keep it dilated, so that the natient will suffer little from it, and that it will not shorten his life. But if you are consulted in the advanced stage, when the stricture is much contracted, when the mucous membrane is ulcerated, when abscesses have formed in the neighbourhood, . you can only palliate the symptoms in some degree. The patient under the eircum- j stances in spite of all your efforts, will lead a a miserable life, and in all probability will ultimately fall a victim to the disease.” (p. 30.)] _ 1633. The treatment of stricture of the rectum consists in subduing n its cause and the constitutional disease in causal relation to it, and in the removal of the stricture. The first indication requires the use of suitable antiphlogistic remedies, or such as operate on the skin, purging, proper • treatment of hsemorrhoidal affections and abdominal plethora, and on; but especially strict attention to the mode of living, carefulness as to free * relief from the bowels, repeated application of leeches, soothing injections into the rectum, hip-bath, rubbing in mild ointments with, according to circumstances, extract of belladonna or cicuta. By such treatment, with H proper care, and corresponding to the circumstances of the individual a case, a stop may be put to an incipient stricture, as I have in some in- stances observed. I have also used at the same time, internally, iodide ot potash with good effect. But such result is only possible mtheW- beginning of a stricture ; if it have already proceeded farther, no effect can be produced on the stricture itself, but it is necessary, if t^e ^rict“” * and the rectum be in a state of irritation, to undertake in addition the direct employment of mechanical remedies upon the stricture, vhichr consist of stretching, cutting into or cutting out, and cauterization ot tbe i cases” says Brodie, “the faeces accumulate above the stricture, the i i bowel in this situation, becoming distended into a large bag, forming an immense reservoir of feculent matter, always pressing against the stricture, and aggrav ng the disease It is very important to empty the bowel which is thus loaded and you can only do it in the following manner ^Introduce an elastic f1““a stricture into the feculent mass above; inject tepid water, or tepid soap and water,or " solution of caustic alkali ; and by repeating tin,e® gut with warm water every day, or every other day, you may at last^get the ^ the feculent accumulation dissolved, and empty the reseivoir. toDre- accomplished, the injection of warm water should be constantly repeated, so P vent the accumulation taking place again, (pp. 29, 30.)J , , 1634. Stretching, by which the narrowed part may be enlarged, 1 consolidation of the cellular tissue accompanying it ,jJ with plugs, wax, and elastic bougies, sponge tent, with metallic. or goldbeater’s skin dilators, and the like. . . f635. The plugs of lint which Desault used with the especial o J of introducing medicated substances, are carefully passed into *16 * to with a plug-liolder, after having been smeared withp ^ld ^Sion which extract of belladonna, or cicuta have been added , or J and of decoction of cicuta is made. The plugs should be nia e. bear allowed to remain up for a longer time, according as the patient cW ^ them. As their introduction with the holder is often d1u<>- completely closes the rectum, so as even to prevent the e.c. Tanchou has proposed fixing the plug on an elastic metal canula,^ introduce it on a silver button-ended probe, first passed into duced 1636. Elastic and wax bougies, of corresponding size, are339 STRICTURE OF TIIE RECTUM. Rnto the stricture. Properly prepared wax bougies, of from one to three „ nd half inches in circumference (Salmon) are the best. In introducing hese bougies the following rules are to be observed, according to the it afferent heights at which the stricture is situated. The bougie, curved ccording- to the curvature of the rectum, and well oiled, with the convexity Corresponding with the first curve of the gut, and directed towards the &acrum, is thrust in upwards and backwards, in this direction, to the ex- tent of two inches. After a little waiting, the bougie is intx-oduced still ligher, from three to three and a half inches above the second curve of "i he rectum; the inner extremity of the bougie still remains in the hollow if the sacrum, and the outer end is inclined to the left side. If the bougie ajpe introduced still further, its direction must be changed, the outer end I ieing raised from left to right in a semi-circle, and pushed forwards at the t ame time, and in this manner it may be introduced yet four inches further. ■ f the instrument have to be passed into the sigmoid flexui-e its outer end l oust be pressed gently down, and pushed upwards, till it be completely parried in. The deeper the instrument is introduced the more care must ■iite taken, lest dangerous irritation, or even perforation, of the sigmoid lexure should occur. There is, commonly, pain over the whole belly, i x.nd violent forcing. The contraction of the sphincter causes the most difficulty; the bougie, therefore, of different length, according to the seat f stricture, is to be well passed into the rectum, and there retained by neans of a bandage attached to it. The patient should keep quiet in bed, ; i.nd the bougie allowed to remain in, not longer than from six to ten iiinutes, nor so long, if the patient complain of severe pain. Its introduc- : ion is to be repeated every two or three days, its size increased, as also the * ™e it should remain, according to the patient’s irritability, but every ’iolent irritation should be carefully avoided. I have used elastic bougies vith a dilator, as in narrowings of the oesophagus, ( par. ] 606,) which I >nce introduced into a stricture, and repeated every two days, as dilatation, continued, for sometime, easily sets up considerable iritation, and even becomes unmanageable. In strictures, situated high up in the rectum, •die elastic or wax bougies are the only remedies which can be employed. ; [Brodie observes:—“ In a great number of cases, where the disease is far advanced, rou cannot resort to the use of the bougie in the first instance, or, if you do, it must be • mployed in combination with other remedies. It will be necessary to lessen the irri- abihty of the bowel by the introduction of an opiate suppository every night, and a ' K ' “Penent taken in the morning. The patient may take a combination of caustic llr.f/lth copaiba; half a dram of balsam of copaiba, fifteen minims of liq. potass. wZTmc\0t mucilaee of gum ai-abic, and about nine drams of carraway water. A ittYf^0 f cS,C°mp0Sltl0n,n,ay be taken three times a~day with very great advantage. Hiichl’fcn! E<g<Tare'road’ recommended tome a decoction of Achillea millefolium, ■unces of thl TPu,yed m *ome °f these ,cases with manifest advantage. About two lint, of wWi At\!‘l may be put lnt0 a pint and a balf of 'Tater an(1 boiled down to a With i. ,Patient may take a wine-glass full three times a-day.” (p. 29.') inestion how f t0.lbe US? °f bouSies *u stricture of the rectum, Lawrence says“ It is a Sure 8°SV e StnCtUre T bC rdieved by the hitroduction of bougies. When the vhen you can tW 7 t0 tbe a”“f that J011 can examine it with your finger, and [he bowel W>,L e efore’ ascertain with considerable certainty something of the state of Natation’willL>iU Ca“ a8certalII> '>}' s«cb means, how far the mechanical irritation of 'he urethra hot m.,0™6'/011 may cautiously use bougies, as in the case of stricture of Its in that case miiSt emp °y tjle(n.under the same kind of restrictions and cautions t>f the rectum than ; ’ /°[l bn,d lt; nccessary to be even more cautious in the case v’°u meet with n Vum ,at of [ne urethra, inasmuch as you are so much uncertain, when the gut. Yon rn., t1UU T’ w. 't ler y°u are pressing against strictured or sound parts of iou must employ instruments which will not be likely to injure the bowel. z 2340 TREATMENT OP Verv commonly yon find instruments of elastic gum recommended for this purpose, mentsG Therefore you had better use rectum bougies, made of a soft composition ; and “Sider indeed, hat rZum%Z^e g£ a sufficiently soft substance for a rectmnb g ■ hUo t id water, they will beim- ^ «•1— recommend; and you should never employ any - ( l « p have thought that the with ointment; .he boy to aootod, must be dM *° %‘XZpZ: of ZZ&iXS&o. a, pleasure, «jd ,o operate" specially V" the narrowed part, peculiar dM. proposed by Arnott, Bekmond, and Costallat ^Ahnott, as weU as Charles Bell, introduces a piece of prepaied gu , , ,, sound, into the stricture; the distension of the ®*s L\ an(j ing in air, and of the latter by injecting water Blonds U Costallat’s (b) apparatus consists of a little bag ?. beater’s skin, introduced into the stricture, afn^h^y ^“fg1 The con- extension can be made specially at the seat of the irrita. stant distension purposed by these apparatus eas y tion and pain which is unbearable. , dilators recommended Tn the dilatation by metallic means, as the dilators recoinmeucu of the bowel in course of a few weeks in two mstences. ^ ^ metallic instruments can only be employed 1 inflammation carried in upon the introduced finQ notches made in the stricture, and the bridges divided with it, or several notchesm^e ™ at proper distances apart from each other or a 1 ^ J and Strays If possible these cuts should be made tow » cut open with care not to extend beyond the bounds of the disease, the walls of the bowel itself. . Wiseman (d) first made use of such cuts in stricture ofThe re for a long time Copeland (e) says “ In the indurated annular stricture, wii mQre than once resisted the introduction or the enlargement of thei boug , 1 ‘ d parts> on that introduced a probe-pointed curved bistoury and d‘vld^^"quently seen.the o^2. “«■ p- »*»-»«»■'•* <*■ K,",r “a,> w- (e) Above cited. .1STRICTURE OF THE RECTUM. 341 I"Rrodie recommends the division of the stricture, in the following manner “ In- duce a bistouri cache, and let the screw be so adjusted that the blade may be opened Cut the sixth of an inch, but certainly not more than a quarter of an inch. The ktouri must be introduced with the blade shut; then press on the handle, open the ! lade and drawing it out, you nick the stricture first in one part of its diameter, then n another and then in a third. This being done, a larger bougie maybe introduced 1 lan could’be done before, and the cure is very much expedited.” (p. 29.)] 1640. Extirpation can only be employed in narrowings of the rectum , ependent on tuberculous excrescences, when situated at the edge or n the lower part of the rectum, from whence they may be drawn forth, ,r protruded by straining at the anal aperture, and being held with , brceps or by a thread passed through them, may be removed from their »ase with knife or scissors without danger. Schreger, from experience, irefers extirpation in such cases, although it had been objected to by / Desault. If the excrescences be seated higher, extirpation can only be lerformed under certain conditions as to their form, that is, when they ire provided with a neck. No important symptoms follow this operation, is the absence of vessels in these excrescences and their insensibility pre- | ;ent bleeding, and sympathetic affection of the rectum, and the internal mat readily shoots over. If the excrescences be situated higher than we ;an venture without danger to extirpate them, the removal of those nearest :he anal orifice will, however, relieve the patient’s condition; the applica- tion of pressure sufficient to efface those above facilitates, and consider - ibly shortens the cure. Compare Rognetta (a) in reference to those warts of the rectum, which in their issue precisely resemble warts on the skin, and must be removed though they frequently •eturn. 1641. Cauterization with a bougie armed with lunar caustic has been Employed by Home (b) in ring-shaped stricture of the rectum, and caute- irization with dilatation by Sanson, in three cases, though without particular leffect. (Tanchou.) Sanson has recommended a caustic-holder similar to that of Ducamp ; Tanchou employs an elastic catheter, opened at the side, into which he introduces a second fitted with caustic. Cauterization must always be considered a very uncertain mode of treatment: it can only be of use when properly performed, and the dilatation is sustained (e). 1642. If, in the course of this disease, fistula: form about the rectum, ';the treatment must first be directed towards the stricture, and when that is got rid of, the fistula may be treated in the usual manner. If the disease be cancerous, alleviation only can, in most cases, be obtained by thin plugs, smeared with softening and soothing ointments, by injections of decoction of cicuta, suppositories of hyoscyamus, bella- donna, and the like. But, if the disease be seated at the lower part of the rectum, if its upper boundary can be reached with the finger, if the cellular tissue surrounding the lower part of the gut be healthy, the bowel movable and permitting its drawing down, the extirpation of the can- cerous part, according to Lisfranc’s (d) proposal, may be undertaken. 1643. The patient being placed as in the operation for the stone, two semi-circular cuts should be made about an inch in front of the anus, which, dividing the parts to the cellular tissue, should meet behind. The intestine is then to be dissected from its connexions till it is completely Medicate, vol. iv. p. 387. 1836. (c) Tanchou, above cited, p. 182. si! .ICT Observations on the Treatment of (d) Revue Mcdicale, vol. iii. 1830, p. 471. otnctnres of the Urethra, &c., vol. ii. p. 418.342 TREATMENT OF STRICTURE OF THE RECTUM. set free all round. The forefinger, half bent, is now to be introduced into the gut, and sufficiently drawn down to make the mucous membrane protrude, so that a portion of it can be easily removed with curved scissors, • or with the knife. If the cancer affect the whole thickness of the intestinal wall, and do not extend more than an inch upwards, the whole gut must „ i. i rlicodc^ Inirl V>nrp T'Iip p.vp.rtfid Dart is thfiii tA tl # Ij Ij m be everted, and the entire disease laid bare. I he everted part is then to be cut into, parallel to the axis of the trunk, and cut off with the curved scissors. Should the cancer have affected all the membranes of the intes- tine and the neighbouring cellular tissue, then after the first two cuts have been made, and the lower part dissected, a cut must be made with a pair of straight scissors upon the introduced forefinger, through the whole wall of the intestine backwards, where few vessels and the peritoneum can be wounded, and which has also the preference of rolling out the gut and laying bare the disease at the same time, after which it is to be removed with scissors in the sound part. In operating on men, a catheter must be • kept in the bladder, to prevent injury to it.. The bleeding vessels must, as far as possible, be tied, or sponge dipped in cold water, or a sufficiently thick bundle of lint introduced. If the bowel have been plugged, the plug must, after some hours, be renewed. For the purpose of preventing the narrowing of the gut whilst the scar is forming, a pretty large bundle of lint must be introduced, and there kept, during suppuration, for a month, h This operation is more difficult in the female than in the male, andean assistant must keep his finger in the vagina to prevent its injury, whilst the operation proceeds. In 8 the female, after an oval cut is made, distant about three quarters of an inch from tie opening of the rectum, and continued to the gut, the rectum must be gently pulled, and a two inches of its side and hind part removed, without injuring the vagina. I he pro- * iection which the rectum forms in front is about sixteen lines, on account of the ; connexions it has with the vagina, which, formed of an aponeurotic tissue, and very thick cellular tissue, stretches through the muscular fibres from the fatty tissue beneath the skin, at a depth of three lines. When, in the female, the rectum is dissected up to the attachment of the peritonceum, and drawn by means of a pair of forceps, there is a space of six inches forwards, and aside between the lower end of the bowel and the peritonceum, but behind we may proceed still higher, on account of the meso-rectun. « « the male, the distance from the anus to the peritonceum is about four inches. -1644. When the narrowing depends on a large scar, nothing more can be done than to cut deeply into it at several places, and to widen the anal * aperture by the introduction of plugs, lint, or sponge. . In the narrowing * of the rectum by tumours in its neighbourhood, which impress it, we > prognosis and treatment are guided by their situation and condition. A narrowing of the anus by growing together of the buttocks, as the consequence o > badly treated ulceration, so that the motions are only as thick as a feather stem, ana _ the most part involuntary, Rust (a) cures completely by division of the uni buttocks. _ 1645. If narrowing of the rectum run on to closure, and ileus be p 1 duced, the formation of an artificial amts is required, although always very doubtful remedy {par. 1616.) IX -OF GROWING TOGETHER AND UNNATURAL CLOSURE OF THE 1 PREPUCE. Petit, J. L., Traitc des Maladies Chirurgicales et des Operations qui leur confien- nent, vol. ii. p. 421. Zieb, Dissertatio de Phimosi et Parapkimosi. Jena, 1785. (<i) Magazin, vol. i. p. 237.343 PHIMOSIS. Muller, De Phimosi et Paraphimosi carumque curatione. Erf., 1797. I Lodek, Medicinisch-chirurgische Beobachtungen, part i. p. 84. Weimar, 1794. r Travers, Benj., On Phimosis and Paraphimosis; in Cooper and Travers’ Surgical issays, part i. Loudon, 1818. 8vo. .. Kirnrf.rgkr, Tiieod., Historisch-kritische und pathologisch-therapeutische Abhand- n*T iiber die Phimosis und Paraphimosis. Mainz, 1834. 4to. Collie, Die Beschneidung der Israeeliten. Dresden, 1812. Terquem, Guide de Posthetomiste, avec un expose d’un nouveau precede'. Metz, B4&- Bergson, J., Die Beschneidung vom historichen, kritischen und medicinisclien Stand- iiinkte. Berlin, 1844. With a plate. I 1646. The unnatural narrowing of the prepuce, so that it cannot be eadily retracted over the glans penis, is called Phimosis; and if the :ery narrow prepuce which has been retracted cannot be again brought " arward, it is named Paraphimosis. 1647. Phimosis is either a vice of the first formation, and congenital, r it may be accidental, from inflammation of the glans and prepuce; in ,-hich latter case it is named by some complicated phimosis, in opposition •o the first form. 1648. The prepuce, in children, has generally so narrow an aperture, (hat it cannot be retracted over the glans; and peculiar symptoms may 'iccur if this aperture be very narrow or entirely closed. When, for example, the orifice of the prepuce is smaller than that of the urethra, the irine cannot flow in its usual stream, part of it collects under the prepuce, listends it, and can only be completely voided by pressure. By the urine ;hus retained, and becoming putrid, the prepuce is inflamed, often lengthens ind becomes hard ; and even stony concretions may be formed between r.he glans and the prepuce. If the prepuce have not an opening, it be- comes distended by the collecting urine to an oval transparent swelling, md the retention of urine may be fatal, if assistance be not afforded in proper time. 1649. If the congenital narrowing of the prepuce be not so great as to produce the just mentioned symptoms, it is rarely noticed before puberty. If the erections of the penis then occurring be not sufficient, by degrees, to enlarge the aperture of the prepuce, so that it can be easily retracted over the glans, which depends on the great length of the prepuce or the shortness of the frcenum connecting the prepuce and glans, or it may be on the imperfect development of the penis itself, erection and connexion will be painful; inflammation, excoriation, and so on, will be produced by dhe obstructed flow of the urine, and by the collection and putrifying of the cheeselike matter beneath the prepuce ; and also the proper ejection of thz semen will be prevented by a very small orifice of the prepuce. 1650. Accidental phimosis arises from inflammation, in which, as con- sequence of swelling of the prepuce, its aperture contracts, and, as consequence of increased determination of blood, the glans itself enlarges. Usually, those persons are attacked with accidental phimosis who have, rom birth, a very long and narrow prepuce. The special causes may be, V/nC^a^ U'C6rS’ w*ien seated on the edge of the prepuce, upon the corona g andis, or on the frcenum, internal or external gonorrhoea, warty excres- 'Cences, and excoriation of the prepuce from putrescence of the cheese-like i • a. * reta*ned beneath it, or from any other irritant. The inflammation ei er' acute or of un erysipelatous kind ; often is the prepuce swollenTREATMENT 344 with cedema. Phimosis may also be produced by any chronic swelling and thickening of the prepuce, as in hardening, in scirrhous or any othei degeneration. 1651. The symptoms caused by such phimosis vary according to iti ! degree and its cause. In venereal ulcers upon the corona glandis, if th< pus be retained, the prepuce may be gradually eaten through, and the ] whole glans often protrudes through the hole. The inflammation may rur ; on to gangrene, which is particularly to be feared in adults, and if mer cury have been previously and frequently used ; the urine collected beneatl the prepuce may cause excoriation, may be effused into the cellular tissu. of the whole penis, and producing gangrene, cause its destruction. lhi swelling may even be so great that the glans and urethra may be partiallwl compressed. If the inflammatory stage pass by, a chronic phimosis mat remain, in which there is a hard, cartilaginous swelling of the prepuce, o; i growing together of the prepuce and glans. Should the obstruction t< > the voidance of the urine by the narrowness of the prepuce, affect UhJI bladder and urethra, distension, weakness, and even palsy ol those partita may be produced. 1652. The treatment of phimosis consists in removing the narrowing by operation ; or in phimosis, accompanied with inflammation, by remedial j capable of diminishing the swelling of the prepuce and glans. In chil* dren this operation is only called for when there is complete closure of tbl prepuce, or the congenital phimosis is to such degree that it prevents tb discharge of the urine, and in adults, when, besides the voidance of the - ui-ine, the discharge of the semen is also stopped, connexion painful, or w the orifice of the prepuce have a cartilaginous ring. If the narrowing of the prepuce he only slight, softening rubbin^-m, bathing, anI; repeated daily attempts to retract the prepuce, are sufficient to wideri its orffi s!L Particular instruments have been also used, for this purpose (6). p ever, always tedious, painful, and can only in a few cases be effective. 1653. The two usual modes of operating for phimosisr are circumcime and slitting up the prepuce, with or without removal of theflaps. lt- congenital phimosis be distended by collection of the urine, it is sufficien to thrust in a lancet at the under and fore part of the prepuce, ^V1 1 injuring the glans, and then, after every discharge of urine, to insert ■ little plug into the aperture for a time. . I 1654. Circumcision (Circumcisio, Lat. ; Beschneidung, Cerm., 1 concision, Fr.) consists in the operator taking hold of the Prepuce, a . and below, with the thumb and forefinger of the left hand, so tha ¥ are about a line distant from the glans; an assistant draws bac fold of the prepuce, as far as possible, to the root of the pen , ^ q presses the glam with his thumb and finger; the operator then, cu*o that part of the prepuce »Inch he holds,. with “ 3 cautiously, that he do not injure the glans The size of the p ^ removed must depend on the length of the prepuce, and ^ of its narrowing and thickening; too little, however, must not ^ as, if so, the inflammation following the operation oawtyP c)ain, narrowing. It is superfluous to hold the part to be cut o s ti as recommended by some practitioners. If, as almost ahvays h pp« ^ outer fold of the prepuce be retracted further than the mne, must also be cut off to correspond. The bleeding, which is often ,pl.xxvi.f.a. Lodeh, above cited, p. 90. (fc) IIxisteb ; Instit. Chirurg.,345 OF PHIMOSIS. arable, must be stanched with cold water, with sponge, with continued ■ssure/or if any single vessel spirt forth, it must be tied. iamuel Cooper and Wattmann recommend the connexion of the two folds with rhfjewwA circumcision differs in that after the child is wrapped from the shoulders ,’he cubes and from the middle of the thighs to the ankles in a cloth properly fastened 1 hfj aCross the thighs of a sitting man, by whom he is properly held, the circum- L grasps the prepuce with the thumb and forefinger of his left hand, draws it wards, and inserts it in the cleft of an instrument similar to a silver spatula. Thus ■ling the prepuce, and raising the penis upright, he cuts off the former close to the Ie ,vith a single stroke of a button-ended knife. The circumcisor now, as quickly as uible seizes the inner fold of the prepuce with his thumb-nails, which have been spe- iu cut for the purpose, and tears it immediately up to the corona, glandis. He then •ts some water from his mouth upon the wound, takes the penis in his mouth, and ks the blood out of it a few times. A strip of fine linen is then wound round the ma and the cut surfaces, as a dressing, and the penis laid upon the pubes, in a ring Prevent it being touched (1). Cerqdem (a) speaks in favour of removing the inner layer of the prepuce, and has posed an instrument like a pair of scissors (posthetome mobile) for the purpose. 1) Many years ago I was present at a Jewish circumcision, and was so much lick with its facility and appropriateness to the purpose, that I have ever since per- ched the operation in the same manner, except that instead of inserting the prepuce be cleft spatula, I merely grasp it with a pair of dressing forceps, as close as pos- i e to the glans, and then cut it off before them. The tearing up the inner part of the pace to the corona is a very important part of the operation, and far preferable to its fision to that extent with the knife, as, whilst the inflammation is subsiding, the cut |es, especially near the angle of the wound, are prone to adhere together, by quick on; and even if this do not extend far, it causes a girthing of the glans, which is ionvenient and often requires a second division to complete the cure. By tearing the ;er skin, which should always be torn completely behind the corona, or the operation 1 be useless, the edges of the wound become sloughy, and disposition to quick union prevented. From repeatedly having performed circumcision in this way, 1 am sure « the best mode. And I may add, that, as regards circumcision or slitting up of the puce, the former is in every case much to be preferred. I never, however, put in v stitches, as they are not merely superfluous, but add to the necessary inflammation :hout sufficient reason.—J. F. S.] Jpon the bleedings after circumcision, see Goldmann (b). 1655. Slitting up the prepuce is performed in various ways, in doing tich, however, it must always be remembered that the outer fold should ?t be well drawn back, so that, as far as possible, an equal division of th folds should be made. Through the orifice of the prepuce is to be in- duced Savigny’s fistula-knife, or a knife specially for this operation (c), th its point guarded, and held flat, till it reach the middle of the corona 'indis; it must then be turned on edge, and, by sinking the handle and idng the point, it is thrust through the skin, and then being drawn "ards the operator, it divides the prepuce at a stroke. The flaps are to grasped, one after the other, with the thumb and forefinger of the left ,n > and cut off obliquely downwards and forwards with the curved issors, along and close to the frcenum, or, if they be not too large, they M e left, and gradually shrink and retract. According to Cloquet’s e V )j a director should be introduced at the under part of the pre- ' th ^ra t0 the franum, and upon it the division made with the knife, he Yr<x.nu™ '3e vei7 short, it must also be divided with the scissors. ungitudinal wound becomes transverse by the retraction of the ePuce, and heals without deformity. “) '"»ve cited. .und V0N Walther’s Jc Off,,’vo1* p. 201. ' } GmLL*KSAU, Ben,. Bell, Petv Latta, have proposed particular kinds of knives for this operation. (rt) Bulletin des Sciences Medicales, 1826, June, p. 206.346 TREATMENT Covering the point of a narrow bistoury with wax, for the purpose of introducing into the aperture of the prepuce, is unnecessary. Many persons in this operation us j button-ended scissors ; others introduce a director up to the corona glandis, and upon i a narrow-pointed bistoury, whicli they thrust through, after withdrawing the directoi and divide the prepuce as just mentioned. If in consequence of the retraction not having been properly made, the external fol of the prepuce be insufficiently divided, it must be done with the scissors. If the nai. | rowing of the prepuce be of that lcind that slitting it up half way is sufficient, th; must be done, and the flaps cut off obliquely from above downwards, or left to retract I In order to prevent the swelling of the flaps of the prepuce, which, by sewing u getlrer, causes that of the obtuse angled wound, Fricke (a) makes, after the division < > both folds of the prepuce as already directed, a cut of the length of half an mch throng .. the skin to the underlying cellular tissue, towards the root of the penis. The divlsic- of the prepuce at the upper, middle, or under part, is always preferable to that o \s either side. Sometimes the narrowing of the prepuce depends on a hard ring, situated in it inner fold; it is then sufficient to pass a narrow button-ended knife behind this rini and to cut through it in withdrawing the knife. 1656. After the bleeding is stanched, the edges of the wound should b covered with lint, confined with sticking plaster, a small compress, and narrow bandage, and the penis placed upright towards the belly. If in : flammation ensue, cold applications are to be made; and in cedematowH swelling and gangrene, warm ones. The dressings should be removed a often as necessary. 1657. Although circumcision of the prepuce is by many practitionei considered to have great advantages, especially when its aperture is nar rowed merely by a hard ring, if the fore part of the prepuce be not onl unnaturally narrow, but also thickened, relaxed, or to some extent con tracted into a tube (//), yet by this treatment less of the inner than of th outer fold is cut off, and frequently so much less that the object of th operation is not attained, if the inner coat be not also either cut into o cut off- for which reasons the slitting up of the prepuce is., indeed, i o-eneral properly employed (c), and circumcision only in the simultaneou great degeneration of the prepuce, and then the inner fold must be atoj specially divided. It is also always most advisable to remove the Hap after slitting, as already mentioned, as they swell considerably alter operation, remain thick and misshapen, and render connexion painful, o prevent it, and only in children after the lapse of some years resume pi proper size. This renders Cloquet’s proposed operation superfluous. 1658. The operations in which not the whole thickness of the prepu but specially only its inner fold, seem preferable to those alrea y ®enJ tioned. The origin of congenital phimosis is not, as usually supposed, narrowing of the two folds of the prepuce, but merely a want of exte bility in the inner one. The operation may therefore be most simP*y^ formed in the following way. The external skin of the penis should oe rt tracted sufficiently far to discover the aperture of the prepuce, int0 a narrow-pointed bistoury, with its edge upwards, is t0, beJ.m.t,r0?UC a pair of scissors, and some lines distant of both folds divided. , the turners of the left hand the skin is much drawn back over t,ie£ ' which,°thus somewhat uncovered, the slightly extensible inner fo e PP tightly stretched over the glans, and preventing the retraction o P puce y This inner fold is now to be divided either with the knife or as often as is necessary till the prepuce is quite free> upon t*e >f „ capable of being brought backwards and forwards. The bleom g ^ („■) Annal. dor chimrg. Abtli. des Hamburger (t>) Lodkr, above cited, p. 36.-R'cBT**’ (a) /vniiiu. * fangsgrnnde, vol vi. p. 191. Krankenha , • ' (c) Zanq ; Operntioncn, vol. iil. pp. 34 and 40. •m In347 OF PHIMOSIS. ,0nsequence; the whole after treatment consists in repeatedly drawing back he skin over the glans and bathing the penis in cold water. In a few lavs the patient is cured without any mutilation. I have frequently performed this operation, with the best result (a). When the cellular tissue connecting the outer with the inner fold of the prepuce, is ess extensible, and the outer fold itself less yielding, the latter must be so far cut nto as to allow the prepuce being very easily drawn backwards and forwards (b). Lanoenbeck (c) proceeds in a similar way, though manifestly less simple and satis- aetory. After an assistant has forcibly drawn back the general coverings, he grasps the ■dge of the prepuce with a pair of forceps, introduced within it, and with a pair of scis- ors makes some little snips at different parts, and so many of them, till the whole irepuce can be completely drawn back. After each snip the prepuce must be still Irawn back, till it be everted and the inner fold come into view, in which he then aakes the snips which may be still necessary. In old and hard prepuce, with little •xtensibility of its inner fold, Begin (d) employs a practice which indeed is to be con- idered as a modified slitting of the prepuce already described. After previously slit- iug up the prepuce, he cuts off the corners of the flaps with scissors, so that the wound ft- ecomes round; he then retracts the skin of the penis, and cuts off the inner fold of the • irepuce. as far back as its base, with the scissors. The skin will soon draw together, nd healing follows, a V-shaped scar being formed on the inner fold, by which its ireadth is increased. According to Vidal de Cassis (e), the operator, whilst an ssistant fixes the prepuce with a strong pair of forceps, from above downwards, passes hrough the prepuce, below the forceps, three transverse threads, and a fourth ver- bally from before backwards ; then with strong scissors he cuts off the prepuce in front f the forceps, avoiding the threads. The forceps being then removed, the glans is artially exposed with the threads over it. The middle of each thread is now taken aid of with forceps, and being drawn a little forwards, four loops are made, each f which being cut through, eight sutures are formed, which after just sufficiently cut- ing through the inner fold of the prepuce strongly retracted are tied, and thus the dges of the outer and inner fold of the prepuce brought into contact. 1659. If the prepuce be united to the glans, after that it has been cut nto where not united, the connexion must be separated with the spatula h he scissors, or the knife; but if their junction be so complete that no nstrument can be introduced between the glans and the prepuce, a cut 5 t0 be made carefully lengthways through the prepuce without injuring he glans, and then it must be attempted by lengthening the cut upon he director or by careful dissection, in which the knife is to be always nore towards the prepuce than the glans, to separate the connexion and emove the divided flaps. In all cases where the union is close and firm ‘'here no instrument can be introduced between the glans and prepuce’ ‘ie operation is excessively painful and difficult, and the result rarely cor- S ho0 f exPf ^ation .(/)• In such case therefore the practitioner 0 cut in! c°,ftent’ lf the parent do not urge the more extended operation, otr(xWH° the,rrtUre 0/ the PrePuce so far, and so to enlarge it by the bougies that a free escape of the urine may be effected. isueh ih!;hen thc connexion of the 9l<™s with the prepuce by bands m7any Actions of the penis are interfered with, the operator a assistant the.thumb and forefinger of the left hand, whilst uces * d d°Wn and stretches the prepuce near the bands, intro- Wn formin'0 theU76d ^ b°tt0m °f the triangular fold of (a) Z? ' S the fr<snum’ arid draws °ut- Lint moistened with lead id mXtn mC„n'Ci inquiry into the ancient rethra and mf,'?' °f cun.nS Diseases in the EdUion U &c- *?nd°n> 1*26. Svo. a Pni—• ehrier, Note sur I’Opcration 9 p,iimosis snr ruprration • 305,_r.„vre ’ 1® Revue Medic., vol. viii. himosis: in Ii “I’iPeb^r pbimo»is nnd Para- « Annal- ->■ - iv. n (,C), ^'CU? Bibliothek fiir die Chirurgie und Oplithalmologie, vol. iv. (d) Nonveaux Elemens de Cliirurgie, vol. ii. p. ooO. Second Edition. (e) Traite de Pathologie exteme et de Medecine Operatoirc. Paris, 1838-41. Large Svo. ) Richerand, Nosographio Chirurgicale, vol348 TREATMENT OF PHIMOSIS. wash is put between the edges of the wound, and the prepuce kept re tracted as much as possible till the cure. . 1661 In the treatment of phimosis arising from inflammation, its thre stages may be observed; first, swelling and inflammation of the gUxn which can be got rid of by the proper application of antiphlogistic remedies second, such considerable swelling that the urethra is compressed, part* stricture thereby produced, and if unrelieved, abscess ulcerations of th urethra, extravasation of urine, and gangrene of the coverings ensue third when the chronic phimosis cannot be altered or got rid of, the glar, and the prepuce become firmly connected. In such case the prepuce ha often entirely lost its cellular structure, and is thickened; the surface., the plans is covered with warts, shrivelled, the proper opening of th urethra scarcely to be found, and the glans often nearly entirely separate from the spongy body by a deep pit (a). . . . 1662 The treatment of phimosis caused by simple exconation c putrefaction of the cheeselike matter, requires frequent injections of wan water with a little liq.plumbi acet., frequently bathing the^m* in luke warm milk and water, and placing it against the belly, and also leech. atT distance from the inflamed parts. When the inflammation subside slightly astringent injections may be used. If any hard swelling remai. about the aperture of the prepuce, it is best to rub in mercurial ointme. with camphor, and in cedematous swelling, bags of aromatic herbs, strewe* Wi1663.mSyphilitic phimosis, depending on chancre or clap first require corresponding antiphlogistic treatment, blood-letting, leeching, so Doultices and luke-warm injections, in order to wash out the matter co fected^between the prepuce and glans. As soon as the inflammation^ swelling subside, mercury is to be used externally and eternally^ . used earlier, there might be transition to gangrene. If with veneres clap and chancre phimosis be feared, it can often e Prev^ J tj ouent purifying injections, quietude, and laying the penis straj^t upon S P If after the inflammation, swelling, and narrowing of the preput have ceased, its growing together must be prevented by fiequen ) in°- backwards and forwards. . . . ,. keeDh increased inflammation and gangrene; °ff about the cu increased, and sometimes growths difficult to get rid^of a - bgneath tl The oneration is only called for when the pus is . . • „nd a nrenuce tot it cannot bo washed out by injection and K get an outlet by ulceration. In such case, however « “J',,,. sary to divide the whole prepuce, but it is generally s ^ ai enlarge the aperture of the prepuce so much tot the pi - dling injections be admitted. If the retained matter form a large J (a) Travers, above cited. i » ei s» ■im > *n -on O iKf uf •du ui xla oi349 PARAPHIMOSIS. Cl ne or other part of the prepuce which runs on to bursting through, it tust be opened with a lancet for the escape of the pus, and injected, f the prepuce be eaten through, and the glans protrude through this ole it is best to cut off the prepuce on the side next the constricted part, . its opening cannot be again brought to its natural place. 1665. Io those cases in which from the pressure of the inflamed and .vollen prepuce upon the orifice of the urethra, the voidance of the urine ; stopped, the ulceration must be prevented by the early introduction fan elastic catheter into the bladder, and if it already exist, at least the urstiug of the urethra, and extravasation of urine which often causes an°rene of the whole penis, be prevented. 1666. The above-mentioned statement (par 1658) that congenital himosis does not depend on narrowing of both folds of the prepuce, but lerely on deficient extensibility of the inner one, is important in explain- ig the origin of Paraphimosis. If, for instance, the very narrow pre- uce be retracted in connexion or in any other manner, its narrow perture where the two folds meet, is situated like a cord behind the glans, he inner coat is turned outwards, and the prepuce everted. The inner oat forms one or more swellings, behind which, and mostly covered by t, the constricted part is exposed. The symptoms caused by paraphi- mosis are various according as the prepuce and glans had been previously lealthy, or both inflamed, ulcerated, or in any other way diseased. In he first instance they are usually not of importance; the swollen, everted old of the prepuce inflames and becomes more swollen, and especially ■n the sides and beneath, the swellings are greatest, become like bladders nd transparent. The swelling spreads to the glans, but usually in a ooderate degree. I have only once noticed priapism accompanying para- phimosis. In the second case, the inflammation and swelling are more ijuick and violent, as both the inner coat and the glans may be consider- ably swelled : retention of urine may occur from the contraction, and •ven gangrene of the glans. In both cases the prepuce may mortify, but isually only the constricted ring behind the glans is destroyed by ulcera- ion in consequence of neglect. When the constriction is not very great, nd the prepuce is not brought over the glans, its folds behind the glans nay grow together by the accompanying inflammation, and in this way n irremediable deformity be produced. 1667. The treatment of paraphimosis always requires the replacement f the everted prepuce as quickly as possibly, which must be attempted i various ways. The glans should be squeezed with three fingers of one ■and for several minutes, or plunged for some time in ice-cold water, to educe its size, and then with the finger and thumb of the other hand, it nust be attempted to draw the prepuce forwards whilst the glans is -ressed back. This handling however is rarely successful if there be nuch swelling and some time have elapsed (1). If the paraphimosis be ac- ompanied with inflammation, blood-letting, leeching, and other anti- •ogistic remedies proportionate to it, must be employed: the handling Js Proposed will only increase the inflammation. Scarifications of the *° en PrePuce> recommended by many, can only be useful by the bleed- tv According to Waltiiek (a) the swelling of the inner fold should moderately pressed, so that it may slip in, and the prepuce return J^^ie 'u.r|,<!' ,i?e<'UCit'onTi'er Paraph>ni09is und nal fur Chirurgie und Augenlieilkundc, vol. vii- ule Meh»n«Hung dot Phimosis ; in his Jour- p. 847.350 TREATMENT OF to its place. By this easy and almost painless handling, Walthe almost always effects his purpose; compression of the glans in doin this is unnecessary, but if this treatment be ineffectual, the operation required. m) The reduction of paraphimosis in this, which is the best way, is often excee <J inely difficult, and always excessively painful, so that frequently a strong-minded pers< I will scream like a child from the pain. I have, however, scarcely ever known it fail, at I hardly remember it needful to perform any operation with the knife. It requires, howevt * great patience and perseverance, often for the space of half an hour, at the very least, and , have often succeeded when the prepuce had been everted six or eight days, and it mig A have been supposed that the adhesive inflammation would have prevented the replac i ment of the skin. Although the diminution of the bulk of the plans, by pressing t, I blood as completely as possible out of it, is a very important part of the proceeding, j 3 squeezing out the fluid effused in the prepuce is no less so; and unless both be dona there is great hindrance to the replacement of the skin. I, therefore, always fir* squeeze gently, but steadily, for a few minutes, the prepuce, till it become somewh flaccid and then firmly press the whole glans with the thumbs of both hands, whilst t; 1 two forefingers of each hand grasp the penis behind the everted prepuce, like a colk 1 and draw it forwards, whilst the thumbs empty and thrust back the glans. Or if I do n • so suceeed, I grasp the whole penis with the left hand, making the thumb and for-j finger a collar behind the everted prepuce, which thus rests against it, whilst, with ti thumb and fingers of the other hand, the glans is emptied, and thrust within the co stricted ring by pushing first one part and then another of the corona glandis till it g beneath the constricting band ; and this done, the rest soon follows. Immediately th I the least bit of the corona has been thus got in, that next it must be poked in (do bettn expression than this can be used) with the finger end, and so on the next, till the greater pf has been thus returned, and the reduction is speedily completed. It must, however, remembered, that directly the return has commenced, the poking must be contino. without intermission, as, otherwise, the whole proceeding will have to be repeated as, - the least cessation, the glans again fills and protrudes. If the everted prepuce do d relax by pressure, the constriction being so great that the effused serum cannot be d'g versed easily upon the body of the penis, it will be found very convenient to make a ft punctures through the skin, by which the squeezing presses out the fluid, and then t prepuce is rendered flaccid. It is always advisable to try this mode of proceeding even Dart of the prepuce should have become gangrenous, as this is often merely superficial a: the replacement puts a stop to its progress. After the reduction, it is well for some bon to wrap the pejus up in linen, and keep it constantly wet with co d water, for the pmpc of preventing the disposition to erection, and re-protrusion of the glans, but after th time a warm poultice will be most agreeable to the patients feelings, and most fevm able to the dispersion of the inflammation. The soreness, however, will ™°ub« tinue for many days, proportionate to the severity of the constriction and its; durat.o No attempt at retraction of the prepuce, to see what is going on inside, should be ma for several days, or the mischief will probably recur. J. r. o.J 1668. The operation for paraphimosis is best conducted in the folio' ing manner. A little fold of the outer skin of the penis, just behind tl constriction, is to be raised and cut through ; into this opening a sma director, curved at its tip, is to be introduced, and thrust into the cellul tissue beneath the constriction, forwards, till it can be felt on the otli side, and then upon it the constricting skin is to be cut through. Am this operation the prepuce cannot generally be drawn over the glans, cause it is too much swollen, and attempts to bring it. forward are us less and dangerous; but it returns gradually when the inflammation ai hard swelling of the prepuce diminish. If the return of the prepuce impossible, on account of ccdematous swelling, a few little cuts may made, and its contents squeezed out. The longitudinal cut soon becom transverse. In the mode above mentioned, the operation for paraphimosis from that already described {par. 1658) for phimosis, namely, the differs, in no respe division of the ap* I351 PARAPHIMOSIS. hi ture and inner skin of the prepuce. The object of the operation is not the division I tjie swelling and of the circular protuberance, but of the retracted aperture, and of the | ,uner f0id of the prepuce. On this presumption, I cannot agree to the unsatisfactory I; million which Walther has given of the operation for paraphimosis (a). Langenbeck y is also of the same opinion. 1669. If suppuration have already occurred at the circular constriction, iq the operation is superfluous, for the two folds of the prepuce are already ^divided, and there is merely the oedematous swelling, which drawing for- 5 ward the prepuce prevents. In this case, the prepuce must either be h. irought forward in the way already described, by squeezing and diminish- >i .ng the size of the swollen inner fold of the prepuce, or several little cuts m mist be made into it, so as to squeeze out the fluid. 1670. After the operation, merely cold water is to be applied, and the 1 oenis laid straight upon the belly. If, during the operation, the spongy I jody be wounded, and there be consequent bleeding, this must be stanched ,o with cold water, or with pressure when it can be employed. An oedema- 's :ous swelling of the prepuce frequently remains a long while after the rj; operation, to disperse which bags of aromatic herbs, rubbing in mercurial em ointment and camphor, and if these be inefficient, cutting into it, or nmoderate pressure by rolling the penis, should be employed. 1671. Constriction of the penis may also be caused by threads or thin > apes, and the like, which have been voluntarily put round it. The symp- i :oms, in general, become quickly very severe ; the place of constriction is pl speedily and completely covered by the swelling, and the band will quickly jjjjout into the urethra. A thin director must be attempted to be passed I leneath the band, which is then to be cut through with a narrow curved i: listoury, If the constriction be caused by a metal ring, it must be cut. hrough with a file, or with nippers, and removed in the most careful ' nanner. X.—OF THE NARROWING AND CLOSURE OF THE URETHRA. Daban, JObservations Chirurgicales sur les Maladies de l’Uretre, traitees suivant a nouvelle methode. Paris, 1748. ? Guerin, Dissert, sur la Maladies de 1’Uretre, avec des reflexions sur la methode (uont employee jusqu’a present les praticiens. Paris, 1780. t I. Hunter, John, A Treatise on the Venereal Disease. London, 1810. Third Edi- Whately, Thomas, Observations on Mr. Home’s Treatment of Strictures in the an improved method, &c. London, 1801. 8vo. Ibid., An improved ^ netaod of Treating Strictures in the Urethra. London, 1804. 8vo. hopart, Traite des Maladies des Voies Urinaires. Nouv. Edit., par Felix Pascal. k* karijj 1821. • Sur la Nature et le Traitement de Retrecissemens de l’Uretre: in Four- R0Y> Medeeine Eclairee, vol. i. fiP,raAi£7> Maladies des Voies Urinaires ; in his CEuvres Chirurgicales, vol. iii. Paris °* i. ixlited by Bichat. abraud, Sur le Retrecissement Chronique de l’Uretre. Paris, 1805. L beman, Dissert, de curandis Urethrae Stricturis chronicis. Erlangen, 1811. " Irethra'nn^V-ERofI>rr?>raft'cal 0bservations on the Treatment of Strictures in the IIo, d m he London, 1805, 21. Third Edition. ^ndorj^ig'i’fj^011^’ ^>ract'ca' Observations on the Diseases of the UrinaryOrgans, &c. f an tiIE8’^‘P’LA Treatise on Strictures of the Urethra, containing an account improved method of treatment. London, 1819. 8vo. (a) See my Observations on Phimosis and Paraphimosis, above cited.STRICTURE 352 Bull, Charles, A Treatise on the Diseases of the Urethra, Vesica Urinaria, Prostate and Rectum. Third Edition; with Notes, by J. Shaw. London, 1822. 8vo. Decamp, Theodore, Traites des Retentions d’Urine causees par le Rdtrdcissement ■ d’Uretre et des Moyens a l’aide desquelles on peut detruire completement les Obstruc- tions de ce Canal. Paris, 1822. Lisfranc, J., Des Re'tre'cissemens de l’Uretre. Trad. Lat. par J. B. Vesicnie ei . J. Richard. Paris, 1824. 8vo. Lallemand, F., Observations sur les Maladies des Organes Genito-Urinaires ' 2 Parties. 8vo. Paris, 1825, 27. Winzheimer, M., Ueber die organische Harnrohrenverengerung und die ver- schiedenen Untersuchungs- und Heilungsmethoden derselben. Erlangen, 1832. 4to. Amussat Lecons sur les Retentions d’Urine causees par le Retre'cissement du Cana.- de l’Uretre’, et sur les Maladies de la Prostate. Publie'es sous ses yeux, par A. j Petit. Paris, 1832. 8vo. Tanchod, Traite des Retrecissements du Canal de l’Uretre, &c Paris, 1835. 8vo. » Brodie, Sir B. C., Lectures on the Diseases of the Urinary Organs. London, 1842' i 8vo. Third Edition. Kdgler, J., Praktische Abhaudlung liber die Verengerung der Hamrdhre, und ihn Heilung ohne Aetzmittel. Wien., 1843. 1672. Stricture of the Urethra (Strictura Urethrce, Lat. ; \erenge- j rung der Harnrohre, Germ.; Retrecissement de V Uretre, Fr.) results more frequently from a change of the mucous membrane with which it is lined, than in any other outlet. In women only it is very rare, on account of the shortness of the passage. The narrowings of the urethra from other causes, will be treated of subsequently, u considering retention of the urine. 1673 The development of this disease is always exceedingly tedious and at first is usually not noticed by the patient. He first feels a slight pan ■ in passing his urine, and there is frequently some mucous discharge from thi urethra'.which spots the linen. Gradually more frequent urgency t( emptv the bladder comes on, and the voidance of the urine is accom panied with much straining. The stream of the flowing water begins t< diminish in thickness, is frequently divided and spiral, or if the urine havt been already discharged in a stream, a small quantity still falls vertical!, in drops. Frequently all the urine is not voided at once, and a large quantity is still passed on additional effort. When the proper of the urine is completed, there still remains a small portion behind tm strictured part, which, as the 'penis hangs down, gradually escapes J _ own gravity. If there be several strictures existing at the same the stream of urine is powerless, and the urine drips away. In t is s the patient long continues getting alternately better and worse; an a violent exertions, after taking heating food and drink, after connexio , after catching cold, a momentary stoppage of urine may occur. rBrodie iustly remarks, that “ in some cases the urine dribbles away 1 j involuntarily, and the patient’s clothes by day, aud his bed by night, are j sopped with mine, maJdng him disgusting to himself and to all involuntary discharge of urine does not indicate an empty and contrai te ^ ftnbe The bladder, in fact, is loaded with urine, and it is when it does not a‘‘ wilboii distension that the urine overflows, and all beyond a certain fluannt> ’ felt lik the patient being able to prevent it, the bladder being at the same tin an enormous tumour in the lower part of the abdomen.” (p. 1 L)j onp 1674. At last the disease reaches its highest pitch ; the urn j( be voided witli the greatest effort and in extremely small quan i » discharge is often completely stopped. By the pressure o353 OF THE URETHRA. inst the stricture, the urethra behind it is expanded, and it may be so , Soh that the urethra tears or is destroyed by sloughing, upon which the rine infiltrates into the neighbouring parts. If only a small quantity of i rine be extravasated into the cellular tissue, it forms a hard, definite wellin0-, which runs on to abscess. In greater extravasation there is a preading tumour, which may extend from the perineum over the scrotum, Inis, groins, and so on. The skin has at these parts a dusty red, shining npearance; gangrene soon conies on, and, after its separation, fistulous pertures are formed, by which the urine escapes. In this state the con- titutional powers often soon sink, and the patient dies. ' [“ Conceive,” says Brodie, “ a distended bladder, and the spasmodic action of the bdominal muscles and diaphragm of a powerful man acting like a syringe, and ircing the urine through the lacerated urethra into the cellular membrane. In fact, o«ie scrotum, the penis, the perinceum, sometimes even the groins are enormously dis- 7/ ;nded with urine. The first effect of this mischief is to relieve the patient’s sufferings, 'here is no more straining, and the spasm of the stricture, no longer excited by the ressure behind, becomes relaxed, so as to allow some of the urine to flow by the atural channel. After this deceptive interval of ease, another order of symptoms shows self. The urine, under any circumstances, would irritate the parts unaccustomed to a contact; but, in a case of retention of the urine, it has been long in the bladder, 3 inch of its watery parts have been absorbed, and it is in consequence unusually impreg- ated with saline matter, so that its stimulating properties are much increased. Where- iverthis acrid fluid penetrates, it first excites inflammation, and then kills the parts with which it is in contact.” (p. 13.) i “ In cases of stricture, where the disease has existed for many years, and nothing ffectual has been done for its relief,” Brodie observes, “ abscesses form in the cellular aembrane external to the bladder, but communicating with it, similar to those con- lectedwith the urethra. A considerable time elapses before such abscesses present hemselves externally, and they point at last in the groin, or above the pubes, discharg- ng a putrid, offensive pus in the first instance, and giving exit to urine afterwards. In )r. Hunter’s Museum (now at Glasgow) there is a preparation exhibiting an abscess >f this kind communicating with the bladder at the fundus, extending upwards in the ourse of the urachus, and opening externally at the navel. I believe that the formation >f these abscesses is always preceded by chronic inflammation of the mucous membrane >f the bladder, and their existence is marked by severe typhoid symptoms. For the nost part they may be regarded as a sign of approaching dissolution.” (p. 26.)] 1675. If this do not happen, however, severe symptoms arise from he changes which the mucous membrane of the hinder part of the urethra indergoes in severe and long-continued strictures. By the constant rritation of the urine collected behind the stricture, it swells up and be- comes spongy; this change spreads upon the mucous membrane of the irostatic part of the urethra, the prostate itself enlarges and its mucous ollicles swell considerably (1). Hence arises the sensation of weight in he rectum, the frequent, often useless straining at stool, the mucous, lometimes purulent discharge which precedes the flow of urine ; the fibrous, enacious urine, with the deposit of long mucous threads upon the bottom ‘f the chamber-pot, which may be drawn out to the extent of two or hree feet. The hind part of the urethra, and the neck of the bladder it last become so expanded, that the urine is only retained by the stricture, ind drips involuntarily (2). By the extension of this diseased change in the nucous membrane to the excretory canals of the semen, and the seminal > esicles, there is frequent swelling of the testicles, very quick discharge of the <emen in connexion, (in which it also escapes without elasticity, and often ^ ore the venereal orgasm is finished,) and frequent nightly pollutions. In Vf;]*y severe state of the disease voidance of the semen at a half erection, ‘out the patient having any sensation of it, with the efforts to discharge - YOL. a. 2 ASTRICTURE 354 the last drops of urine, and in going to stool, occurs. These changes last reach the mucous membrane of the bladder, the walls of which th< often become considerably thickened ; they extend even along the urete to t.he pelves of the kidneys, which, in like manner, are expanded (3 The great disturbance of the general health which accompanies long-coi tinued stricture now appears ; the more or less disturbed digestion, wastin; feverish symptoms at uncertain periods, often accompanied with viole: headache and great heat, sometimes with shivering and without particul; heat, at other times with cold shivers, great heat, and copious sweating (4 [(1) The following observations of Brodie, in reference to the combination of strictin with enlargement of the prostate, are most truthful and well put, and, if borne in mir will save the patient pain, and the Surgeon credit. “ Although the combination stricture with enlarged prostate is common enough; yet it is not,” says he, “ so eomnu as it is by some Surgeons supposed to be. An old man, who has a frequent desire to vo his urine and voids it slowly and with difficulty, applies to a Surgeon, whose hand light and accustomed to the use of the catheter. The instrument is then introduce readily, or, at any rate, meets with no obstruction until it reaches the neck of tl bladder, and the case is set down as one of enlarged prostate, which it really is. Anoth' old man, under precisely similar circumstances, applies to a Surgeon, who uses tl catheter rudely and incautiously. The urethra resents this rough usage; spasm induced and the point of the catheter cannot be passed further than the membranoi part of the urethra. The case is then supposed to be one of stricture, and is treated such ; I need not tell you to how little purpose.” (p. 23.) (2) Brodie mentions a remarkable instance of enlargement of the urethra lollowm “stricture at the distance of three inches behind the external meatus. The posterior pa of the urethra was so much dilated, that, whenever he made water, a tumour, as larp as a small orange, and offering a distinct fluctuation, presented itself in the pennteun it might be compared to a second bladder. Once, when he sent to me labouring und< a complete retention of urine, I punctured the tumour in the perinceum with a lance Immediately the urine gushed out in a full stream.” (p. 8.) . . (3) “In some instances,” Brodie observes, “the mucous membrane is protrude through some of the interstices of the muscular fibres, forming numerous small cyst; communicating with the cavity of the bladder. These cysts appear to be formed m tt following manner; when the patient strains in making water, the mucous membran- while it is pressed on by the muscular fibres externally, has to sustain an equivato degree of pressure on its inner surface from the reaction of the urine. Wherever tbeit happens to exist a small interstice between the muscular fibres, the latter force alom operates, and the bulging outwards of the mucous membrane is the necessary consequent These cysts, however, are not peculiar to cases of stricture of the urethra, and they oecr equally where the obstruction to the flow of uriue arises from an enlargement of tn prostate gland, or from any other cause.” (p. 25.) He mentions “ a case of long-ne{ lected stricture of the urethra, in which, on examining the body after death, I touna on of the cysts interposed between the bladder and rectum; at least, equal m capacity to bladder itself. * * * For the most part the contents of the cysts are similar to those ot tn bladder itself; but I shall have occasion to mention a case in which a large cyst ot J description contained pure pus, while in the bladder there was nothing but urine. (PI 25 6.) He also observes that he has “ met with several cases of stricture of the nretnn in which the mucous membrane of the bladder was found, after death, n0k.0?J^ t flamed, but encrusted, even over a large portion of its surface, with coagulated lynp Such an effusion of lymph is the result of acute inflammation, differing in its chara from the chronic inflammation which produces merely a secretion of the vesical m« ■ and it is observed chiefly (if not exclusively) when the patient has died alter na been harassed by repeated attacks of retention of urine.” (p. 24.) . (4) “ Rigors also occur,” says Brodie, “ in many cases of stricture, maepe of abscess. We meet with them most frequently in patients from hot , K usually recur at irregular periods, being in many instances brought on by the tion of a bougie, or the application of caustic to a stricture. The parouse o resembles that of an intermittent fever, and it is more severe when it follows . ^ a bougie than when it occurs independently of it. In general, the cold lit ; 8 ^ .1 K.. fit nnrl thnt hv n nrofuse nersniratioil. tile patient IS fell • jia d‘l >‘)fc !.% iv •tr aii «c mo 01 ■ J* d t It I ■i. StJ ,<;a do airt fid h' a uuu -.v x >1 11. 1U — - Y £ followed by"a iiot fit, and that by a profuse perspiration, the I^ient ”Towards • J ' •’ :-’:-“wbed fora great length of time afterwan^ other times, however, the constitution is disturbedloragre^ and sometimes the rigor is followed by an attack of continued fever, which lasts llOF TIIE URETHRA. 355 j or even for some weeks. I met with a case in which a rigor followed the applica- > ion of caustic to a stricture, and this was followed by an attack of mania, which (if my Kecollectiou be correct) did not subside for nearly a month. Another patient had | -poured under a stricture of the urethra for many years, during which no instrument . iad ever been made to enter the bladder. I succeeded in introducing a small gum i atheter. Having emptied the bladder, I removed the catheter. In a few hours after j pere was a severe rigor. An attack of fever ensued, attended with rheumatic inflam- nation of the muscles of the neck, from the effect of which the patient never entirely :r ecovered, though he lived for many years afterwards.” (pp. 27, 8.)] 1676. The origin of stricture always depends on, and is accompanied t vith, a chronic inflammatory state of the mucous membrane of the urethra, ii >y which it is swollen up, thickened, and loses its natural extensibility. t n many instances the immediate cause of stricture is unknown. It is u requently observed after gonorrhoea, especially if that have been long nr ontinued, and improperly treated. The causal relations, however, which i he stricture has to a previous clap, are often unknown, as it is observed i fter both severe and slight clap, whether treated with or without injec- ions. Strictures, also, commonly appear long after gonorrhoea, often as sj ong as thirty or forty years. Neither their seat nor their extent at all { orresponds with that of the previous gonorrhoeal inflammation. Scrofu- tp ous or gouty inflammation, long-continued onanism, accidents which tefal the urethra, and long suffering with stone in the bladder, especially n old persons, may be causes of stricture. Warm climates seem to be nore favourable to their development than cold. Varicose swellings of he vessels, as well as tumours in the neighbourhood of the urethra, may 1 .Iso produce them. [ Brodie mentions that “ in some cases of long standing, we find a gristly in- larated mass at the lower portion of the penis, where it is covered by the scrotum. Hus is, probably, in some instances, the contracted portion of the urethra, thickened •nd converted into a substance approaching in its character to cartilage. But, in other ases, it depends on a different cause. A gentleman laboured under a stricture, and •oided his urine with great difficulty. A hard oblong tumour could be felt in the ieighbourhood of the stricture, though somewhat anterior to it, at the upper part of the crotum. I dilated the stricture so as to enable the patient to introduce a bougie for him- clf; but still the stricture remained unaltered. He died about a year afterwards of an accidental attack of disease in the brain; and I found, on dissection, that the tumour iad arisen from a deposition of lymph into the cells of the corpus spongiosum. Imme- diately^ behind the stricture there was an orifice leading into a long and narrow sinus, ^tending from the urethra into the gristly substance of the tumour. The direction of be sinus was from behind forwards, so that it was evident that it could not have been produced by the improper use of the bougie. I conclude that it was the result of the orcible and the repeated pressure of the urine against the urethra behind the stricture ” PP- 8, 9.)] 1677. The most common seat of stricture is at four and a half, or five and a . inches from the orifice of the urethra, rarely at other parts (1). The itrictured part is, according to the duration of the complaint, more or less !,’ '''hite> almost fibrous, generally of slight extent, not exceeding a me s breadth, as if the urethra were tied round with a thread ; but some- mnes it is wider, and then not equally thick, and the canal of the urethra is nously curved. These changes seem to result from repeated severe attacks •endp^f"1^1-0?’ which even affect tlie sPongy body of the urethra, and lt .I r 11 ^lck and hard. Sometimes several distinct strictures exist Stricture does not always attack the whole circum- n V the urethra, it is often valvular, or tape-like, divided and branch- loticJT .sornet™es runs lengthways. Not unfrequently strictures are j ie middle of which is ulcerated. Complete closure of the urethra 2 a 2STRICTURE OF THE URETHRA. 356 from stricture is very rare; but most commonly in long-continued stric ture, the urethra in front of it is contracted. The so-called caruncle, o growth from the inner membrane of the urethra, which was formerly con sidered the most common cause of stricture, and probably nearly always confused with what we call stricture, is rare. They are frequently foum as little masses of soft warts behind the stricture ; at other times they are not found behind, but before the stricture ; they are commonly simila to those growths observed on the prepuce and glans. I have seen in on person, who had frequent claps, the urethra tilled with round excrescence for an inch behind the fossa navicularis. •<* A- ■lii 1 X lia iti i to» Hunter (a) has described three forms of stricture of the urethra; first, a permanei stricture depending on a change in the structure of the urethra ; second, a mixed cot dition of permanent and spasmodic stricture; and, third, a simple spasmodic stricture The adoption of this third kind rests on the notion that the inner membrane of the uretlir is endowed with actual capability of expansion and contraction, depending on its muscula nature. This opinion is contradicted by examination, which shows that the membranou part of the urethra is surrounded with an injectable tissue similar to the spongy body, br in which no muscularity can be discovered (6). Charles Bell (c), who considered tb urethra to be simply elastic, supposed that many symptoms of stricture depended on th influence of the perinacal muscles surrounding the neck of the bladder and the vrethre Although there may be some grounds for this opinion, a certain capability of contrac tion and expansion cannot, however, be denied to the urethra, as so many excretory pair sages which equally exhibit no muscular character, and where only very rich yascula. ramifications are noticed, are so endowed, without, on that account, distinguishing wit* the name, spasmodic stricture something else than a stricture (depending on a change c structure in the inner membrane of the urethra) which is accompanied with great u flammation, great sensibility of surface, or in the neighbourhood of the canal oftb urethra, and with increased irritability of the surrounding muscles, by which a grer degree of stricture may be produced. Here, also, must be distinguished from spasmodi contraction of the urethra and neck of the bladder those cases which come on witbem inflammation and organic change, and merely as a symptom of diseasedly incr^ sensibility of the bladder and the urethra, and mostly only transient (d)._ Itnw also be remembered, that even spasm may accompany every acute and chronic lnhan mation. The mistake must not be made of assuming the existence of spasmodic stnetun because on examination of the urethra after death no trace of stricture can be found, t which, during life, there were symptoms, and which generally depends on the mode ■ examination, as, if it be not carefully conducted, nearly everything disappears on cutting into the stricture (e). „ , _ ,. re- r (i) “In the majority of instances,” observes Brodie, the disease (s ,. , began in the anterior portion of the membranous part of the iirethra limn . behind the bulb and in the situation of the triangular ligament of the penniTum, in some instances it had its origin in the urethra, somewhere between the pa j_ mentioned and the external orifice ; and that in a few cases it is confined to t e orifice, and the canal immediately adjoining to it. Occasionally where t le g> and principal stricture has been in the membranous portion of the urethra, another stricture anterior to it; and in cases of very long standing it is not unu find the greater part of the canal in a thickened and contracted state, (p- *■) - . ture which affects the external orifice, and anterior extremity of the urethra, it many cases, connected with an adhesion of the inner surface of the prepuce clans. Such adhesion is usually the consequence of a congenital narrowness prepuce, combined with want of due attention on the part of the nurse to ti cleanliness; and hence it is that patients who labour under this kind of stri ’ queutly declare that they do not know when the disease began, and that t 3 remember the time when the urine flowed in a full stream.” (pp. 6, /•) J 1678. The diseases which may be confused with stricture are, in . mation of the urethra, clap, spasm of the muscles surrounding the abscesses or swellings in its neighbourhood, stone, and diseased j am ■jX ■«* » q*l > 1, ;oo VO! 'I Iw Ift ! ;uti t'% ; Oil Above cited, p. 120. (<d Above cited. . . ois.—Lisrs*1'1 ,l\ Shaw .Iohv, On the Structure of the Mem- (rf) Soemmkrino, above cited,p.- (UJ OHA», > . M„1 n|,<, Tnn. ‘ ‘ branous Parts of the Uretlu-a ; in Med.-Cliir, Trans,, vol.x. p.339. 1819. above cited. (e) Amussat, above cited.357 TREATMENT. V close inquiry into the course of the disease, a careful examination, . ,nd the following circumstances decide the point. In stricture, the dis- j :harge after connexion occurs quickly, and recurs usually after a week ; clap rarely appears before the third day, increases, and the pain on \ caking water and inflammation become more severe. Stoppage of the •rethra by stones is distinguished by the previous symptoms of stone, by he sudden stop to the flow of urine, and the striking of the sound against he stone. Swelling of the prostate is felt by the finger through the ecturn, the catheter can be readily introduced as far as the prostate, but t then frequently excites severe pain, and most commonly only an elastic atheter can be introduced. 1679. The prognosis in stricture of the urethra varies according to the eat and condition of the disease. The nearer to the orifice of the urethra, < he more recent and extensible, the shorter and narrower the stricture is, )i o much the more easily can it be got rid of. When, however, the ;; ymptoms mentioned (par. 1675) have set in, the prognosis is more j oubtful, except that the patient’s condition may be rendered tolerable; l z cannot, however, be decided whether after the removal of the stricture, hese symptoms will diminish or cease. The treatment is in many cases . edious, and relapses are very frequent. If urinary fistula have already .i ormed, what has been already mentioned (par. 948) must be borne in find. 1680. In the cure of stricture, two circumstances must be distinguished, amelv, whether the voidance of the urine be completely stopped, or [» Aether the patient suffer under the common symptoms of stricture; the atter only will here be considered, but the former in treating of retention Of >f urine. R* ) t ! 1681. The object in the treatment of stricture, is to get rid of the bstacle which opposes the passage of the urine, and which is to be effected ither by gradual widening of the canal of the urethra, by the introduc- tion of foreign bodies, as tapers, bougies, or catheters; or destruction of he stricture with caustic, with conical catheters or special instruments, f the stricture be in causal relation with syphilis or any other dyscrasy, hey must be counteracted. General treatment, however, has not in itself ny effect on stricture. 1682. The first object of the treatment by widening or with bougies, * to determine the seat of the stricture. For this purpose, an elastic wax •ougie corresponding in thickness with the orifice of the urethra, and meared with oil is to be introduced into the aperture of the urethra, the '?lls being held with the finger and thumb of the left hand behind the j1.®' but without pressing the urethra. The penis is then drawn up, ‘list the bougie, held like a writing pen, and gently rolled from side to ■ e, is passed in so as not to get entangled in the mucous membrane. ’ .®n . ® bougie has reached the seat of stricture, a mark is to be made ' WrYhe c*ose to the mouth of the urethra, and thus the dis- e ot the stricture from it is shown. ays which is used for the purpose of examining the urethra should,” le jt a ,,’V 0 a mil size, that is, large enough to fill the urethra without stretch- aus lead vnll i °,U^1C deceive in two ways : it may pass through a stricture, and aveits noin* 1°, .t there is no stricture when there really is one, or it may tune accidental1' , lr? the orifice of one of the mucous follicles of the urethra; or in osing that th . lrr?£u‘anty of the canal, and lead you into the opposite mistake of sup- ere is a stricture where none exists. If you use a bougie of the size of358 TREATMENT OF the urethra, you are not at all liable to the first error, and you are much less liable the second than you would be otherwise/ (pp. 29, 30.) J 1683. A thinner elastic or wax bougie, about the thickness of tl stream in which the urine flows is now taken, and a maik made upon at the same distance from its point as on the former one; after whici beino- introduced as already directed, an attempt must be made to pass through the stricture, in doing which all violence must be avoided. TK entrance of the bougie beyond the nail-mark shows it has passed tl stricture, and this is still further proved when, on drawing it back, it somewhat held, and if left quite alone it does not rise up. The last ci cumstance shows that the bougie has bent in the canal of the urethra front of the stricture without penetrating it. If the point of the boug enter a mucous follicle, it is known by the nearness of the obstacle to tl orifice of the urethra, by the pain the patient feels, by its further progre when the bougie is drawn a little back, which is effected without the lea difficulty, and then again introduced in a different direction, and by tl absence of any impression of the stricture which is always observed, whei the bougie is withdrawn, to have been made by the stricture. If tl bougie will not enter, a smaller one should be tried. If the condition of tl stricture be such as to render the passage of the bougie impossible, v must endeavour to obtain an impression of it with Ddcamp s mode bougie, presently to be described, which must be pressed against it a litt while for that purpose, so as to give to the point of the bougie to be intr duced the proper curve by which perhaps it will pass through t | stricture. Or a very thin bougie is to be carried down to the obstacL and there left some hours, from eight to twelve ; afterwards it will of itsa* enter the stricture and pass into the bladder (Dupuytrex.) When t bougie have to be pushed beyond the curve of the urethra, beneath tl arch of the pubes, it is most advantageous to give it a proportionate curv- or to introduce a stilette of lead or iron properly curved into the cavity an elastic bougie. Or if a straight bougie be carried beyond the curve the urethra, as soon as its point gets under the pubic arch, the pe/ns^mu* be depressed to lessen the curve of the canal, the bougie gently rotated as is pushed forwards, and assisted by pressure of the finger in the pennam The introduction of the bougie is often rendered difficult by the spa modic contraction of the muscles surrounding the urethra, especially^ irritable persons, or if the stricture be in an inflammatory state. In case the introduction of the bougie may be often effected, if a slight ru bing be made on the perinceum with one hand, whilst the instrumen gently pressed forwards with the other, or if it be allowed to lie some tun upon the stricture, and then attempts made to pass it farther. L ndertie circumstances, remedies which lessen the great irritability, as hike-war bathin", clysters, leeches, and the like should sometimes precede the u: of the°bougie. No force should ever be employed in passing a bougi if it will enter only a few lines deep into the stricture, there it shoul allowed to remain, and by repeated introductions it will pass further. Common bougies, wax bougies, are prepared in the following ,’iannc^'TA. P’^, fine linen, which has been already used, nine inches long and to an men according to the thickness of the bougie to be made, is to be dipped into meh dp ^ and when a little cooled, spread flat and even with a spa tula; it is then to b; together between the fingers and afterwards between twopiates ofmarl.htl t ^ firm and smooth. The bougie must be equally thick tliroughout its I about one inch from its point, from whence it should gradually taper an ii f 0 - i* H r A ■4 ■ >ih 4 di n <ii k. id i i ra uc ■in xv « rSTRICTURE OF THE URETHRA. 359 a firm round point. Bougies are also made by dipping cotton threads in melted 4 ax till they have acquired sufficient size, after which they are rolled between marble I ,‘tes By the addition of various medicaments to the substance of which bougies are I i gj were made the bougies midicamenteuses formerly in use. The elastic bougies re to be preferred, as besides their flexibility they are also tolerably firm, and not so i usily dissolved by the urine. If hollow, an iron stilette may be introduced into them, ;j id their strength thereby be much increased. Wax bougies seem preferable to elastic ones in all cases where there is difficulty in fesnetrating °the stricture, as, on account of their great flexibility, the urethra is not i isily injured. In very narrow strictures, the introduction of silk-worm gut bougies as been recommended, which enlarge about half their size, and by their softness yield I] , the directions of the canal. The objection made to them, that by their irregular - ad hard point, they injure the canal of the urethra, and even pierce through it, may a: e diminished by their proper preparation, and careful introduction (a). If the wax bougie, when it has penetrated the stricture, be a little while withdrawn, * a impression upon it from the stricture is observed, by which the condition and , ctent can be determined. The same also happens with the silk-worm gut bougie. [In passing wax bougies, Asti.ey Cooper (b) directed “ always to warm them by ‘ ie fire, for the purpose of rendering them soft; when, if they are introduced into the 8 rethra and pass through the stricture, you will ascertain the distance at which it is 1 1 tuated from the orifice, and the form and size of the stricture will be modelled on the ougie. You then pass another bougie a little longer than the first, and directly that is renthdrawn, another still larger. On the following day you again introduce two bougies, g tat is, if there should be no existing inflammation to prevent it; the first bougie you & ten use is to be of the same size as the one with which you concluded on the previous f: ly; after this has been withdrawn, you again pass another, a size larger than the first, !■ tus using on every occasion two bougies, always beginning with one of the same size ; that with which you had concluded on each preceding time. By adopting this plan, :•:< rictures may be cured in a quarter of the time that they usually are, and the stric- ired part of the urethra speedily made to regain its natural size. * * * Never attempt > pass a bougie in its straight state, for if you do, it will be obstructed in its passage, ■ hether there be stricture or not. You invariably give it, before its introduction, the 1 irve of the catheter.” (p. 223.) ; Abernethy (c) says:—“ You should pass a bougie very gently, and withdraw it im- 1 lediately after the first application, and if no reaction ensue, you will find that the . art will bear twice as much next time; but if you pass it roughly, the contrary will appen, and you will increase the disorder. You should never repeat the passing a . augie till the effect of the first stimulation is completely gone off. In many cases there 3 • no necessity for introducing them more than once a week.” u i Brodie justly remarks:—“Success in the cure of this disease will depend on your ttending to this important rule. Whether you use a bougie, or a sound, or a catheter, •t the instrument be held lightly, and, as it were, loosely in your hand; it will then in nne measure find its own way in that direction in which there is the least resistance; hereas, if you grasp it with force, the point can pass only where you direct it, and it is ist as likely to take a wrong course as a right one. A stricture will invariably resent » >ngh usage; it will yield to patience and gentle treatment.’’ (p. 68.) In the treatment of stricture of the urethra, there is difference of opinion as to the I latenal of which the bougie or sound should be made, whether wax, elastic gum, cat- ut, or metal is to be preferred; and whether such instrument should be conical or • ylmdncal. 1CooPER saJ's“ The bougie I use is madeof silver ; it is of the form of the • meter, but at the point, and running back for some distance towards the handle, it is leal. The way 1 use it is this, I first pass down in the manner above described, a x boupe, for the purpose of ascertaining the form, size, and distance of the stricture. oin^TT1 a knowledge of these, I then introduce my conical silver bougie, the ilatati Whl j bav!nS entered the stricture, the further it passes the greater is the mnd °n» pr, cec*’ *? consequence of the form of the instrument. This bougie I have ot it t , , y serv‘cea,)le> aD(lis the best with which I am acquainted. When it is An na. * USe a common silver catheter instead.” (pp. 223, 24.) asmf!d'lETfH-Y observes “ Metallic instruments are good in some cases ; if there be a ion • CtUre at.five inches, and another at six, and one beyond it, when a com- („) K pe “Passed it may get by the first stricture, but when it reaches the second it eil“ng;InRn«V«»^rr’ihren'?trictur ihre W lectures; in Lancet, 1833, 4, vol. ii. Third s. m must s Magazin, vol. xv. p. 1. Edition. (e) MS. Lectures on Surgery.360 TREATMENT OF •will be so gripeil by the one through which it first passed, that it will go no farther f here, then, the metallic is useful; it cannot he indented, and, being exceedingly polished :< it slides on, but it requires great knowledge of the direction of the canal, and grea . gentleness in passing it.” _ In the following observations it will be seen that Brodie considers difference o ii% situation of the stricture requires corresponding modification in the treatment with 1* instruments. “ Strictures in the anterior part of the urethra, but behind the orifice,” says he g “require to be mechanically dilated by the introduction of bougies or metallic instru ments. At all events, I know of no better method of treatment ; and sometimes th> i patient obtains relief on very easy terms, the dilatation being readily accomplished, an> the use of a bougie once in three or four days being sufficient to prevent a recurrence O' ^ the contraction. At other times, however, the disposition to contract is so great, that; . becomes necessary to introduce the bougie once or twice daily; and, indeed, I hav 1 known cases in which the patient was seldom able to expel his urine until the bough. r had been employed. “ The simple rules which have been just laid down are not sufficient for the treatmen / of strictures at the bulb of the urethra.' The circumstance of these being situated when l the curvature of the urethra begins, at a distance of six or seven inches from the exter - nal orifice, and their liability to spasm, distinguish them from strictures in the anterio | part of the canal. The management of them requires greater skill, attention, am a experience on the part of the Surgeon; but, at the same time, it must be acknowledge!, K that it leads, on the whole, to more satisfactory results than that of strictures whict take place elsewhere. If you were to ask me, how then do you treat strictures at th • bulb of the urethra ? my answer would be, I have no particular method : sometimes. adopt one method, sometimes another, according to the peculiar circumstances of th. I case (p 49 ) The methods which are chiefly useful in the case of stricture at the bulb of tlie urethra, are: First, The dilatation of it, by means of the common plaster bougie. 1 Secondly, The dilatation of it by means of the metallic bougie, catheter, or sound Thirdly, the retention of the gum catheter in the urethra, and bladder, fourthly, I hi jj application of the bougie armed with nitrate of silver. . “ The common plaster bougie, if of small size, should be of a conical shape, but if 01 d a middle size or of a full size, it should be cylindrical. Ascertain the size of the stTean of urine, and introduce a bougie of this size, whatever it may be. If the bougie be ven small, it may be used straight, otherwise it should be curved like a catheter, but in a les decree. Neither you nor your patient are to be disappointed because the bougie does no enter the stricture at the first trial. In many cases this will not happen until yon have seen your patient three or four times; and in very difficult cases, the de ay may be stu greater than this. When a bougie has once entered the stricture and bladder, allow it t< remain for a few minutes. In two or three days introduce either the same bougie or on. of the same size. Then withdraw it, and use one of a size larger. Allow tlus m remain for a few minutes, and after two or three days more, repeat the operation, m by degrees, you dilate the stricture, until it is of the same diameter with the rest o ^ urethra. This method of curing strictures is applicable to a great number ot. and, whenever it will answer the purpose, I would advise you to resort to it in P1^ , to other methods. The common bougie gives little or no pain; it excites no *rrl ' unless it be introduced clumsily or rudely; and it can do no harm by penetrating . i tearing the membrane of the urethra. _ , which a “ The metallic instruments which I am in the habit of employing are not tnose ■ are sold under the name of flexible metallic bougies. These are liable to loee« shape which you have given during their introduction, and, in fact, are at the sam too flexible and too inflexible for any useful purpose. Those which 1 haTf’ ii • _1 J 1 _ _I n nnli.l ci 1 uni. th a lni..ruri Anne A f* Cl 1VPT Ol* StCClt VSTRICTURE OF THE URETHRA. 361 it o-ently, against the stricture, in the expectation that it will gradually become dilated lid allow the point to enter; then depress the handle, and pass it into the bladder, rovided that you can do so readily, and without the application of force, but not other- ise. Two or three days afterwards, (and the interval ought to be never less than this, id sometimes it ought to be greater,) introduce the sound which has been passed .fore, withdraw it, and introduce another of a size larger ; and thus go ou dilating the ricture until that part of the urethra has regained its natural diameter. If in the nirse of these proceedings you are in doubt whether the sound has reached the bladder r not, you may easily determine the point in question by introducing a catheter, ou might, indeed, use the catheter from the beginning, but that the openings near the aint, and its comparative lightness, render the introduction of it less easy than that of rie solid instrument. This method of treatment is applicable to a large proportion of le cases which you will meet with in practice: first, to those of old and indurated stric- ires, which the common bougie is incapable of dilating; secondly, to those in which, in msequence of some improper management, a false passage has been formed, into which ie point of a common bougie will easily penetrate, but which an inflexible instru- ment may be made to avoid; thirdly, to those in which, from long-continued disease, r id without any previous mismanagement, the urethra has become distorted and its irface irregular; and, fourthly, to several recent cases, in which the smooth, polished irface gives less pain to the urethra, and is less likely to induce spasm, than the softer, •iat less smooth surface of a common bougie, (p. 51-4). “ In treating a stricture of the urethra with the gum catheter, you are to introduce it and itlow it to remain day and night in the urethra and bladder. If the patient can bear it i be retained for a sufficient length of time, the stricture will become dilated not only i the size of the instrument employed, but to a size considerably larger. Perhaps you ) ill be able to introduce the catheter without the wire or stilette. Do so, if possible. If iot, yon should employ one mounted on a strong, unyielding iron stilette, having a flat- bed handle, like that of a common sound or staff. Being so mounted, it is more readily irected into the bladder than when mounted in the usual way on a piece of thin flexible ire. When the gum catheter has entered the bladder, withdraw the stilette, and leave le catheter with a wooden peg in its orifice, which the patient is to take out whenever e.has occasion to void his urine, it being at the same time secured by a suitable andage. After three or four days, you may withdraw the catheter for twelve hours ; ', if much suppuration be induced in the urethra, you may withdraw it for a longer eriod. Then introduce another catheter, larger than the first; and thus you may, in ie course of ten days or a fortnight, dilate a very contracted urethra to its full diameter, his is a very certain and expeditious method of curing a stricture. You may by'these eans sometimes accomplish as much in the course of ten days as you would accom- lish in three months by the occasional introduction of the bougie. This method is irticularly applicable, first, where time is of much value, and it is of great conse- uence for the patient to obtain a cure as soon as possible; secondly, where a stricture gristly and cartilaginous, and therefore not readily dilated by ordinary methods ; nrdly, where, from the long continuance of the disease, the urethra has become regular in shape, or where a false passage has been made by previous mismanagement, nder these circumstances, if you can succeed in introducing a gum catheter, and let remain for a few days in the bladder, you will find your difficulties at an end ; the ^regularities will disappear, and the false passages will heal; fourthly, there is still oother class of cases in which this method of treatment is particularly useful. I , .to those in which a severe rigor follows each introduction of the bougie. This isposition to rigor is such, that it is sometimes impossible to proceed with the treatment lllnt aU way- Observe, in these cases, when the rigor takes place. It seldom nip * l 6 usu. ot’the bougie immediately. It almost always occurs soon after the on h , -S V0lded hls urme> aild seems to arise not as the immediate effect of the opera- ilatJl v con)equence of the urine flowing through the part which the bougie has ’ ".°T’ ”.,lnSte, , a bou£ie you use a gum catheter, and allow it to remain, ap resorted to it.” (p. 57-9.) noted °vShTthe barmlessness of plaster bougies is asserted by the high authority just equentlv ?,a"r°!t,aCC<’rd 7-lth that statement, for I am quite sure that they are very 'jury mav mischievous, and that, even with the greatest caution, much all of thp „ //°ne -Jy *heir Wiently slipping from the stricture and perforating the rethra in front of it, and producing false passages, and not very uncom-TREATMENT OF 362 monly laying the foundation for urinary abscess and fistula. The quickness with whicl they often soften by the mere heat of the part is so uncertain, that it is almost iinpossibk to be sure of the precise quantity of pressure which they will bear; and when the) once begin to yield, they speedily curl and twist in a very extraordinary manner neai their tip, and, though they may not actually penetrate the wall of the urethra, yet the) may seriously damage it by their increased bulk at this part, as the curve assumes the shape of a corkscrew to a less or greater extent. I have known bougies pushed through the urethra again and again, and false passages formed whilst the Surgeon supposed hi was making progress in the cure of the stricture, when, in reality he was making matten worse. There are, I apprehend, more false passages made with them than with an) other instrument, and few Museums are without examples of such results. 1 therefon have long since almost entirely given up using bougies, and prefer a catheter or a sound, as with either of these the precise quantity of pressure made, as well as the actual course which the point of the instrument takes, is more readily ascertained, anc if it be inclined to go wrong can be more easily and satisfactorily corrected. And with them there is little or no excuse for tearing the urethra. In addition to which, expe- rience shows, that the smoother surface of the metallic instrument greatly favours its movement along the urethra, and that its tip will often, without difficulty, overcome an) little spasm about the stricture, and pass through it, when it is impossible to make a bougie move on without ^mischief. I do not think it of much consequence whether a catheter or a sound be used ; perhaps the former has the advantage of showing at ones its entrance into the bladder, by the flow of urine through it, whilst the latter, on the whole, passes more readily, and with less resistance, as its own weight gently urges it- on if it be only kept in the proper direction. A silver sound is preferable to a steel- one as most practitioners who have been in the habit of using it will bear testimony: but'it should be solid silver, and not, as is too commonly the case, merely a silvei catheter filled with composition, which is not only less weighty than the solid one, but is liable to be broken in two if it be necessary to make any alteration in its curve, as le not unfrequently requisite, to adapt it to the particular case. I think, also, the conical form recommended by Asteey Cooper is highly advantageous, and of the best which can be used. A couple of them is amply suflicient for any Surgeon s armamentarium, of which the point of one should be that of No. 3 or 4, and of the other that of No. 5, increasing in size upwards to Nos. 10 and 12 respectively. Some practitioner; are in the habit of using a straight sound like a skewer, with a conical point; but if the stnetare be in the membranous part of the urethra, it is a very dangerous instrument in the hands of most persons, and not adapted, I think, for general use. _ The excellent directions given by Brodie for the introduction of the sound or catheter leave little to be added. The importance of avoiding all violence cannot be t<xi strongly urged. An instrument to be passed into the bladder should rather, as An nethy used to say, be “coaxed,” not forced. There are, however, other twopomL which must be carefully attended to in this operation; the urethra may fall into toms, either in its length, or in its transverse diameter, in consequence of which the P01®1 the instrument becomes entangled, and will be at once stopped, and may or maJr J! thrust through the side of the canal, although at the part where the hitch is, no s exists. The urethra folds lengthways, when the instrument does not comple e y for which reason it is always advantageous to introduce such an one as near ) size of the urethra, as will have a chance of its point entering the stricture , an ' convinced that there are few strictures in which it will be necessary to commence of* tions with one smaller than No. 6 or No. 4; provided the cure only of the stncmrt considered, and not the immediate relief of the bladder from retention of u • which case a small instrument is admissible. But small catheters or sounds ari times very dangerous, except in more dexterous hands than those by wtuen i • commonly Jj and, as they more quickly slip through the wall of the larger ones, the patient’s condition is rendered worse than before, beamseitoflen^c. necessary to suspend the use of instruments, if luckily the accident shot, d be tow**** which is far from commonly the case, till the tear has healed up, even if :orse opportunity for the escape of the urine, and so give rise to abscess, me tr. folding of the urethra most commonly occurs in the membranous part, and m • ‘ ^ whether the instrument be small or large, and the obstruction thus* pr°do«Verse fluently leads to the presumption of a stricture when none really exists, in > lhc folding depends on the penis and urethra not being sufficiently drawn forw. P instrument; so that, when the handle of the instrument is depressed to tilU he_po>^ behind the suspensory ligament into the bladder, the point lifts with it t Atten- in front of it, and, doubling it, forms a valve which blocks its further progre Y U ■ 0*9 rti Vi, >m 4/1 ilr a b’ti bit * *ir 190 tap xct to 0 . ,7P £ • uh hr363 STRICTURE OF THE URETHRA. ion to keeping the whole length of the urethra stretched will generally prevent this, or t may be corrected by elevating the handle of the instrument so that the point disen- ables itself, and will then pass on without hindrance. The point of the instrument 5 also not unfrequently stopped, by depressing the handle too early, that is, before it has . ompletely entered the membranous part of the urethra, in which case it strikes against he front of the suspensory ligament, and will not pass further. The greatest care ■>! iaust therefore be taken that the instrument has passed well beyond the ligament before ..he handle is depressed and the point tilted up; and if then it will not enter the bladder t, cithont much difficulty, it is better to pass the finger into the rectum, and the end of the .astrument being felt, it is in general easily directed into its proper course, and little - isk encountered of thrusting it through the urethra between the bladder and pubes, or •, etween the bladder and rectum, which, especially the latter, is of not unfrequent oc- •. urrence in not very practised hands. When the instrument has entered the bladder, ii (ps point can usually be freely moved in any direction; but when it will not move but irorward after its handle is depressed, it is pretty certain it is not in the bladder but in a . .Use passage, and must be withdrawn, and fresh attempts made to carry it in the proper irection, instead of thrusting about and doing serious mischief. The frequency of in- -oducing the instrument must vary according to the irritability of the urethra; in some i • ases it cannot be used more than once a week at first, as it will frequently produce :t were irritation in the passage, and be followed by shivering, and occasionally a hot fit it afterwards, and it may be necessary to defer the second introduction for even a still ‘anger period. But if no febrile excitement follow, it may be introduced every third or > econd day, which is generally often enough. It is also very advantageous to bathe the v erineeum night and morning with warm water, and even immediately after the intro- : uction of the instrument, if it have caused much irritation ; and if there be continuing ain, it is best to apply a few leeches. Going into a warm bath twice a week, and the i! se of leeches to the perinceuvi as frequently, if the stricture be very obstinate, will be ften found to assist very materially in hastening the introduction of the instrument, and f ie widening of the stricture. If the patient be desirous of keeping the passage free, he l Mould persevere in passing a large bougie once a fortnight, long after the cure appears 9p have been effected, as there is always great tendency to its recontraction. Some surgeons consider the introduction of a bougie is rendered more easy, by having its tip neared with extract of belladonna. I have tried this plan, but I think not with much dvantage. If any benefit be gained from it, it will not be immediate; the bougie thus neared must be passed down to the stricture, and left in some hours, after which it ■lust be withdrawn, and another introduced. It may, however, be doubted whether the fiere residence of the bougie in the urethra has not more to do with the relief than the peration of the belladonna; for occasionally a bougie thus managed, as recommended ; y some French Surgeons, will facilitate the introduction of an instrument which pre- lously would not enter the stricture. I do not like cat-gut, nor elastic gum-bougies ; they ; re tough enough to do mischief, but not sufficiently firm to enable us to judge of the ressure made with them, nor to guide them properly. I ca‘lnoj say that my experience, as regards the wearing a gum elastic catheter for the ! lre °f stricture, has been so successful as Brodie has found it. Frequently the irrita- on set up by it in both urethra and bladder has been so great as to compel its removal • 1 although I think wearing a silver catheter is more easily borne, if the patient be pt m bed, which, under either mode of treatment, I have always found necessary to ™^ CVen then 1 have kn0WE in one instance a slough of the urethra take place in , Zufi the scrotum’ without warning, in the course of a few hours; so that, although the ZT seemed t0 be going on well at one visit, on the following day the first step f awards a certain aperture in the urethra has been made.—J. F. S.j * 16?4’ 1 be time which the bougie should remain in the urethra must pecially depend on the sensibility of the patient in general, and of the re hra in particular. It must be so managed that the patient shall suffer ie n t- Pam aS Posfible- Tbe bougie should, therefore, remain only till uarw"^?]?11^!118 of Pain’ which on the first daY does not exceed a • iinutp<i °F nrv .an h°ur’b,lt in an irritable urethra not longer than a few av Tf fi If in*;r()( Action must be repeated about every other or every “brilp lthe;°Ugle b? left in Ionger, severe pain; swelling of the testicles, f tt.p t rnpt0m'S’ and abscesses near the urethra, often occur. The use ougie must then be suspended for a long time, and the inflam-364 TREATMENT OF (r) Above cited, p. D-- matory condition got rid of by blood-letting, quietude, warm bathing, anu j antiphlogistic diet. Many writers have, however, advised that the bough. * should remain for several days, in consequence of which an increases i secretion of mucus in the urethra is excited, its sensibility blunted, ant ,1 it is protected against the presence of foreign bodies (a). For the mos part, patients soon become accustomed to the longer resting of the bougii. w in the urethra, and after some days it may be left. It is then advisable 4 to exchange it for an elastic catheter, which' is specially indicated, if there t be already^ fistulous openings, because the patient is thereby relieved fron the necessity of its frequent removal, and re-introduction, for the purpose u of discharging his urine. The bougie, or catheter, when left in, should be properly fastened; i 3 tape must be bound tightly round it at the mouth of the urethra, the end; > of which carried over the glans penis, must be fastened behind it with several turns of sticking plaster, and the loose ends tied together. Thl mode of fastening is simple, safe, without difficulty, and preferable t< f< fastening a thread to a ring placed upon the penis. (DurcYTREN.) When the bougie has been long left in, it often, specially at first, acquires an indep I from the stricture, in consequence of which, if it be carelessly withdrawn, violent pair ; may be produced. This may be prevented, if the bougie be frequently moved, am gently drawn up and down. 1685. Thin bougies, or catheters, should be gradually exchanged fo: - thicker ones, which, in not very tough strictures, may be soon; and thl ) should be repeated till the urine is voided in its accustomed stream. Tin bouo-ie must not be left off at once, but must still be left in for some time every day, or every other day, and afterwards every week for some hours It will be also advantageous in dispersing the hardness of the membrane! of the urethra to apply, externally, mercurial ointment, and to give, in- jj ternally, cherry bay water (b) and the like. _ . . , J If afterwards, the stream of urine should begin to diminish, and the a patient have difficulty in passing it, the use of the bougie must again lx ii prescribed. In order to effect the expansion of the stricture at pleasure, Arnott (c) has proposer an instrument, consisting of an oiled silk tube, which, for the purpose of rendencgi air-tight, is lined with the thin gut of some small animal, and connected with anotnei tube through which air can be blown, or water injected by means of a syringe, ana re- tained by a cock. Although the introduction of this instrument is generally as easy « that of a bougie, it is, however, frequently, better, especially in an irritable introduce it through a canula. When it has penetrated the stricture, it is to be bliec with ’air or water, as long as the patient can bear it without pain. fConundrums of this sort are very well pour s’amuser, but every practical perso be very well aware that if a stricture will admit such a contrivance it is suttwi expanded not to require the assistance of a Surgeon, or any one else, but haa oe left alone.—J. F. S.] 1686. The operation of bougies consists in the expansion, compression and irritation, produced by their introduction and inlying, in conseqoen of which an increased secretion of mucus, and modification of the vita y and condition of the diseasedly changed mucous membrane is set up^ common cases their presence in the urethra excites only a little P» mucous discharge ; but in sensitive persons, violent pam and painful erections, transition of the inflammation to the testicles, an • .* of the inguinal glands, will be produced with the inlying also inflammation of the cellular tissue upon the outer surface of t (a) Desaui.t, Choi-art, Delfech, Precis Elc- mentalre, vol. i. p. 558. (6) Richter, Anfangsgnindc, vol. vi. P--83,STRICTURE OF THE URETHRA. 365 j ,»rminating in suppuration and extravasation of the urine. All these , .Tuptoms require, besides the removal of the bougie, an antiphlogistic •eatment corresponding to circumstances, blood-letting, spare diet, luke- arm bathing, and the like. If, during the use of the bougie, an abscess >rm, with severe pain increased on pressure, Desaui.t (a) advises the i ntroduction of an elastic catheter, not to open the abscess, but to let it k -urst of itself, or, if it empty into the urethra, to let the pus escape ay the catheter; but if it be then necessary, on account of the great size sf the abscess, to open it, then always to make a small opening, as large aperture retards the cure. Although, however, I have in several . istances pursued this treatment successfully, yet it appears better, on ac- ■ aunt of the danger from extravasation of urine, in these cases, as soon , inflammation shows itself, to remove the bougie, and to employ active itiphlogistic treatment by general and local blood-letting, bathing, soften- I g poultices, rubbing in mercurial ointment, and the like, and if fluct.ua- j 'an should show itself, by early opening the abscess (h). ft >[Astley Cooper adverts to the not unfrequent circumstances of bleeding from the ethra after the introduction of the bougie; or, it may be added, of a sound or catheter ■ lich has been roughly handled, or after the use of a caustic bougie. He says “ The ssing of a bougie is often attended with very considerable haemorrhage from the sthrcij and mentions a case in which he u pressed a roller upon the perinceum, which stantly checked the flow of blood. A short time after he was sent for to the same > dent, the hemorrhage having returned ; he had been lounging before the fire with a Jt on each side of the chimney-piece; the warmth coming in contact with the perinceum, S brought on a renewal of the haemorrhage. He made an incision on the part, and vided the artery of the bulb; this operation completely succeeded, and the bleeding is permanently subdued.” (p. 225.) I apprehend the necessity for such active treat- * 15jare, at least I have never seen any need for it, and believe that Abernethy’s xle of proceeding (c) is amply sufficient in most cases. “ When hemorrhage occurs is best, he says, “ to put the penis in a tumbler, so that the quantity of blood may be ident. I cover the feet and upper part of the body with the bed-clothes, leaving the ns bare; I then wash the perinceum with vinegar and water. The vessels of the °thra speedily contract, and the bleeding stops. 1 would recommend you to do these oo nngs yourself, and not trust to the Datient or his attendant.” ’rate of silver or caustic potash. The application of both these remedies .AS:a,CCOrdin&as the cauterization is made upon the stricture from he- ,!6f The destruction of stricture by caustic is effected either with366 TREATMENT OF (a) Above cited, p. 139. these circumstances he was seized with pain in the act of making water, which laste for some minutes afterwards, being referred to the situation of the stricture m the posU rior Dart of the urethra. The pain beeame more severe, and the patient described ,t to b intolerable, saying that he could compare it to nothing but the sensations which h suDDOsed would be produced if melted lead had been poured into the canal. Ever half hour he had a desire to make water, and his groans might he heard not on! through the whole house, but even in the street. In the course of a few (lays the* symptoms began gradually to abate, and now it was discovered that the urine flowed i a much larger stream. When the attack had completely subsided, the condition of tb patient was much improved, and he made water more easily than he had done for man years.” (p. 15.)] 1688 In cauterizing a stricture from before backwards, a commo bougie is to be first carried down to the stricture, for the purpose of oper ino. the canal of the urethra, and the distance from the orifice of the cana must be marked close to it on the bougie. This having been witl.drawr a corresponding mark is to be made on a bougie armed with lunar caustic which after having been properly oiled, must be carried down the uretb. to the stricture, against which it must be moderately pressed, and accordin to the patient’s feelings, for a different length of time, though on th first day not for a minute. In this way the armed bougie is employe every other day, or in obstinate cases, daily. When the slough has bee. thrown off, an elastic bougie is to be introduced, and thus gradually tb natural calibre of the urethra is restored. Bournes armed with lunar caustic are made in the following wayIn forming th common bougie a piece of wire is rolled into it, extending about half an inch into i substance When the bougie is nearly completed, the wire must be pulled out, and * 2 of lunar caustic inserted in its place. The bougie is to be then again rol ed that the sides of the caustic may be firmly surrounded with the linen, which gives a Win eniu°NTEeRb(a)S^d> for applying the caustic, a flexible silver catheter, provided with stilette which had at its extremity a portcrayon for holding the caustic. fin the directions which Hunter gives for the introduction of the caustic, he tions it is necessary for the canula to be furnished with a piece of sllTer stfleto having a button at one end, forming a kind of ping, J^ich should projec‘ J end'of th^cmiula ami give itarounded end, to Facilitate its passage along the ,«*•« the stricture haviug reached which the plug is withdrawn, and the portcrayon,jh.c may be attached to the other end of the stilette introduced mito1 stead Tins apparan w J however, a very bungling contrivance, and Hunter doubtless found it «0»« mentions in a note, “ that before his death Mr. Hunter left off entirely the of th silver canula, and used the lunar caustic inserted into the end cfaeommmbo r 140 ) the mode in which it is now, whenever employed. The great advocate f ment with lunar caustic was Home; but it was soon fiercely and efficient^ attacked 5 Whatei.y, who shewed the mischievous and dangerous results en*“’"g ' lives, m use Lawrence’s words, “ if we are to credit the description which HoMEgw^ thine would be more safe or effectual than this mode of treatment . , , trca however, to peruse the cases he gives iu illustration of the Jario^ P°'“^ of f (roatin ment we find that serious mischief is sometimes produced by this mode t me Sure ; and as he (Home) is highly favourable to the plan, we may at a 1 events 1 pose that he has not exaggerated the ill-effects of the treatment (p. 802.)] 1689. This mode of cauterization has considerable objection, as necially in strictures behind the curve of the urethra, the easily destroyed, false passages made, and considerable Weed‘ng 1 ,; Not unfrequently the aperture of the stricture u slouffh, and complete obstruction to the voidance of the unne prou and further, by the hard, formless scar which is produced, the returns more severely than at first. v _ of these dis 1690. It is attempted to overcome the greater number367 STRICTURE OF THE URETHRA. («) Ab°ve cited, p. 137. id vantages by cauterizing the ivalls of the stricture. According to lRNOTT («), after the seat and condition of the stricture have been ascer- lined by careful examination, and with a very soft bougie, which should • te introduced through a canula, and take every impresion of the stricture, pretty large canula should be carried down to the stricture. A piece of io mar caustic, somewhat smaller than the stricture, should then be pierced irough its middle with a metal stilette, and upon which it must be re- ined, half an inch from the tip, so that the stilette may be surrounded sith a piece of common bougie, both in front and behind the caustic. The • ilette is then passed through the canula down to the stricture, and : irough it, so that the caustic can be applied to any part of the stricture, s i/hen the caustic has been properly used, a small wad of linen is to be in- > oduced by means of the same stilette and canula, to sop up all the caustic 1$ thich has become fluid. I[lt must not be supposed, as Chelius would seem to infer, that Dr. Arnott is the iginal proposer of the treatment of cauterizing the walls of the stricture with lunar ustic; for Whately, in his Observations on Mr. Home’s Treatment of Strictures A c Wished in 1801, eighteen years before the first edition of Arnott’s book on Stricture d mentioned among the advantages of his construction of caustic bougies, by gluing i end of the instrument, and applying it to a given quantity of powdered lunar nstie, that “ in the first place, the bougie may be of any size, even the smallest size a by this method become the vehicle of this powerful remedy; and maybe readily sse(j \nto: _or a . beyond, such strictures as are extremely narrow : or such as are ended with considerable contraction of the orifice of the urethra.” (p. 68 ) Anda°-ain-— f the stricture be open enough to admit a bougie of moderate size, such a bouqie armed •th caustic may very readily be passed into or beyond it." (p. 72.) Perhaps Dr. Arnott s unaware of Whately’s observations, for it is rather curious, that although Hunter tn^hASR-LEYtP00PiER’ LfLLE»IAND' Ducamp, and other writers on stricture are men- ?lef°nl[ u<?t.lce taken °* Whately is, that a naval captain had obtained in le rdief under his care ; and that after his death the captain’s stricture having he P^ed himself under the care of other Surgeons, but without receiving much their treatment He at length, in 1824, consulted Dr. James Arnott, who ployed the dilator invented by him, from which he obtained considerable relief (p 111 'l »T: Aknott s new method is precisely the same as John Hunter’s mode of ■sfic U hddonTnv/11^ WhlChihe gKVt: UP aS “efficient, with the exception that thf Stic is held on a piece of wire, by which it is pierced, instead of a portcravon ns in E7b e; ;Td 7 rP°rt7 addition’ that the stilette of the plug, instead gnJS? Pr07crayonattachedt0 the other end, as recommended by Hunter has erflnnfc -°f hn fixued 0n. whlch 18 iatroduced before the caustic, to absorb’anv 3 s .v'SlwnTi”8 ‘he h“"'i0r fthe • 691 Ifcjujstiepotj^h be used for cauterizing the walls of the strip i tochS6 °f ™ffldenVhjckness *° “ter stricture with difficulty ^gietrith the nail K *? ,A "'“k is ‘hen made on the enit l l half an inch from the orifice of the urethra and P musHhbeen ,W1.thdrawn> a little cavi|y about the twelfth of an’ inch *Pthan hbeG man6 rounded end> int(> which a small piece of caustic e of thPLSmf1IeSt -Pin’s b?ad’ must be P»t, and so pressed in that m ft be mt]SibTnd * T° fix the caustic, the bougie h lard. Thus armfifTnifaft 7 fi?ger?’ and the interspace filled arried down tho T ’ ? haVlnS been vveI1 oiled, tl.e bougie stic begin to bLoml T' 1° 'i ®tnctur.e’ where it is to be held till the egin to become fluid, and the patient feels a burning pain. It isTREATMENT OF 368 then to be introduced a quarter of an inch farther into the stricture he tnen to ue of seconds, and then passed a little further, till 1 there abou P1 tfae a oach Gf the nail-mark to the lips of tl a peculiar fe , y ^ 1 • h penetrated the stricture. If no pa once or twice a day; bn, occur, tne ooug be used. The whole operation should u there be Pal">1 Generally after the first use of the caustic there exceed two m -• ttinorJin making water, and its discharge but little pain, <. D , ° The bougie used should correspond drops during the *™t » ^ ted afhJr every eight da;. *d"gie incrS in’site till the natural site of the ure,kra, attained ^ . . -l itt tVtp treatment of stricture, was also first practised dl [The use of caustic potash ‘he, “ been my good fortune to discover am Whately (a). Vlie ^aine time, a less painful and hazardous remedy (than lw efficacious, and, at the .same urn , Valuable remedy is the kali purnm, which. I caustic) for the d.sease in‘“^ly to be7 described, will be found ; used in the maimer, and with the P 1 „ ( 23.) The directions for preparing . t singular efficacy mremoYngthecornplamt^ Upon this mode ; bougie, and its mode of use, are^^ ^ ^hatkly seems to have been as cautious in s treatment Lawrence obse • Fyfrard Home was bold in his use of Ini S employment of this substance, as ^ fra t of potassafusa, not larger than i caustic, for he recommen j be never USed a portion larger than thetwei seventeenth part conceive,According to the description Mr. Whately i of a grain. * * *. I should con , °ood which the simple introduction c ^ I cannot "think it had any effect whatever as an esc | r°ti1C692P' Although these two modes of cauterizing the interior of the str » , ' .nSerable advantage over that of cauterizing from before baa j ture hav , ]itt]e certainty in practice, and in many respects** thV"hSisPrS^ri from all the previous modes by its accuracy <S certainty. method the seat of the stricture is f « 1693. According to DuC^M^d^e Situation and condition of its ap I found with a bougie or sound, and the^situation a ^ .g cQve | ture ascertained by an exploration-sound, the e ^ acrainst. § ESs I ever, does not appear stable J °tten b ^dually tine somewhat the.very ..arrow opemng.of.to > somewhat tne veiy 7r, i Vimnries, which may be left m half an hour. 1694 The cauterization is performed w ith a , -...1 4 ^,u,l Hnwn tn the obsta caustic-holder, " j1* 1694. The cauterization is performed who.J - and then its in I I “to tie cam,la, a„d the instrument taken out. II the rutge | (<) An <‘> Ato” P ''369 STRICTURE OF THE URETHRA. ii picture be at the upper or under part, or on either side of the urethra, F Inch is shown by the impression on the exploration sound, the caustic •* ust be directed to that spot. i K small piece of lunar caustic is to be put into the inner shaft of the caustic-holder, sft A the flame of a wax taper directed upon it with a blow-pipe ; the caustic soon melts, . [(j completely fills the whole groove. The heat must not be too great, or it will swell a > the caustic; it must only be sufficient to fuse it. If any points project, they must be I moved with pumice stone. The groove will hold about half a grain of lunar caustic, A ^ if the instrument be kept in not longer than a minute, about one-third of it will i- ssolve. As by this method the caustic will be easily too much swollen up, and little imaiu in the groove, Hahn, according to Berg, proposes the following method:—Some wdered lunar caustic, from six to twenty grains, is to be moistened with water in a tie porphyry dish, boiled up over a spirit-lamp, and constantly stirred with a silver life till the water have evaporated, and the caustic remain fluid in its water of crys- ilization alone, which may be ascertained by its thin pap-like appearance, and the filiation of the crystallization-film. This paste is now to be spread with the spatula the slightly-heated groove of the shaft, and, when it has cooled, any projection is to be moved with the spatida, or with pumice stone. Whilst boiling, the caustic flies about tartly, and therefore it is necessary to put on a glove, so that the hand be not spotted :th black. 1695. If there be only a single stricture, the patient feels, on the day ' cauterization, little pain, but without passing his water in a larger ■ ream ; on the third day the slough separates, and the stream is then increased. The pain caused by the cauterization is scarcely more than m iat produced by the introduction of a common bougie. No inflam- ation occurs; very rarely a discharge, and, if previously existing, it is opped. 1696. After three days a new impression is to be taken with the explor- ing g sound, which shows how much the opening has increased, and what Burt still projects, and must be destroyed. A moderate-sized bougie must ien be passed and carried into the bladder, to ascertain that there is not ■ipiiother stricture. The caustic is now again to be applied as before, and u; the most prominent part. Three days after a third impression is to be i ken, and if the parts forming the obstacle project little, and a bougie, - o. 6, can be passed with ease, the enlargement of the canal has com- I enced. If there be still any prominence, or if the bougie pass with ! fficulty, the caustic must be applied a third time. If there be a second o ' third stricture, it is to be attacked in one or other of these ways. 1697. For the purpose of keeping the scar as wide as the urethra in its 1 Rural state, Ducamp employs peculiar dilators, and bellied bougies mtxntgies a ventre.') Three days after the last cauterization, a dilator of ! iree lines diameter is introduced, inflated with air, and left in not 'tiger than five minutes. Next day the same dilator is passed, ex- 1 iiided with air or water, and after ten minutes withdrawn and replaced wy a bougie of two and a half lines diameter, which is left in for twenty ? nnntes. This bougie is to be introduced for the same time next morning jj 1(i evening. On the following day a dilator of four lines diameter is to |*e passed, withdrawn after ten minutes, and replaced by a bougie of three f J?es> which also, on next morning and evening, is to be left in from 1 keen to twenty minutes. Two days after a dilator of four and a half nes, h* introduced, and afterwards a bougie of four lines morning and i G ening, each time for a quarter of an hour. After thus proceeding for a ee the bougie is only to be passed once a day, and allowed to remain »r a few minutes ; for the following four or five, the bougie is to be intro-310 TREATMENT OF •is, 183d. 8vo. (d) Above cited, pi. i. f- b duced once daily, and withdrawn immediately. The scar is then wf-> a consolidated, and is four lines in width, as in the rest of the uretln canal. Ducamp (a). ™ r 2 Dubouchet (6) thinks that the bellied bougies, will do as well as the dilators ; ai indeed, experience proves it to be so. 1698. Ducamp cautions against the application of caustic when t urethra is inflamed ; that in long strictures it is best to destroy them 1 by bit, by applying it only for two or three lines, as a longer slough sep u? rates with more difficulty, and the canal may be stopped up. If the stri i ture be six inches distant from the orifice of the urethra, a curved caust,- 1 holder should be employed. As Ducamp’s instrument will admit of f twisting, and as, on account of the different dimensions of the urethi * the cauterization, even up to six inches, cannot always be performed wit out danger of making a false passage, so Lallemand, Amussat, Segala t and Tanchou have proposed modified caustic-holders, which may be i i troduced into the stricture with greater certainty. For the enlargement of very narrow strictures, Lallemand uses catgut. As the use -a l . • 1 1,o-Kunt on in rnon\T inctnnpps nrfwlllPPK frrpat na r Ul lilt ^CUILUL U1 VLl j UUI1V/U — O the exploring bougie, with however great care, in many instances produces great pa: ■ t #»F_ t- tA„ a: A ^ tho wtov mop rrof lrwACP nnrl hv Rtnnninfl' nn f . | Hie expiui lllg UUUgic, nuu iiu V,, — — J r - v * and often much bleeding, and some of the wax may get loose, and by stopping up canal cause retention of urine, Lallemand, if the impression of the stricture be not a lutely necessary, introduces a bougie smeared with wax into the stricture, which,aft some time being withdrawn, by the pressure it has suffered, shows the length and ei the situation of the obstacle. By the caustic bougie a second and third stricture may attacked before the first is perfectly removed. Ducamp says that caustic should k a lono-er be employed after a bougie No. 6 passes easily over the obstacle. Lallemasi « experience shows that in such cases it is better to cauterize again, than to persist in ' enlargement, if changing to a larger sound cause pain. Lallemand does not agree w Ducamp in destroying long’ strictures bit by bit, but advises cauterizing their wb i length at once, as he has never noticed complete retention of urine in such case, l it even in that of deeper strictures from the separation of the sloughs ; and, even shoulc:.«d occur, it might be easily relieved by the introduction of a bougie. Lallemand consul- a the subsequent widening of the urethra by dilators useless; the bellied bougies will l * easily take the necessary bend so as to be'carried over the crooked urethra, which howe' % I must from experience, contradict. Elastic curved sounds or bougies are most tive, which should be left in for fifteen or twenty minutes, and should not go beyond t ’ width of Nos. 11 and 12, as if they pass, we may be quite sure of a successful result, t Amussat employs both straight and curved caustic-holders (c). Segalas’ caustic-holder is distinguished by its introduction, covered, into the stnctu It consists of a graduated gum elastic catheter, in which a canula serves the purpose-r sheathing the stilette of the caustic-holder, which, with its olive-shaped button, fits cl< to the mouth of the canula. The instrument is passed down to the stricture, then t d canula carried down it, and, being withdrawn, leaves the caustic-holder uncovered *5 tliG stricture. . . Tanchou’s caustic-holder, by means of a projecting stilette, is more certainlyinti duced into the stricture, and the formation of a false passage thereby prevented, consists of a graduated elastic catheter, with a niche for the reception of the caust which is placed on a metal shaft, having its extremity spiral, so that it may be me flexible and more readily applicable to the curves of the urethra, and of a silver or g< stilette, which is conveyed through the sheath of the instrument, and also guides it passing forwards into the stricture (d). 1699. Opinion is still very much divided as to the preference of t treatment of stricture by bougies, and their destruction by caustic. • ii • i • >t • i iiii m i i Lieu, Line lit; on — - O 7 ~ . * . 1 : must be borne in mind, however, in making the comparison, that tne im chief usually assigned to the destruction of strictures by caustic, n occurred only by the use of armed bougies, (par. 1689,) but not since t improved method of Ducamp ; by which it is believed that there is grea (b) Nouveau p. 206. Paris (a) Above cited, pi. i. to iv.—Froriev, ChirurRisclie Kupfertaf., pi. lxxxi. eau Traite des Retentions d’Urine, fc) Above cited, pi. iii iv-371 STRICTURE OF TIIE URETHRA. ,-} jrtainty in the application of the caustic, and that the cure is quicker t< id more constant than by dilatation ; that the pain is less as experience ; roves; that the hardened part which forms the stricture is very little insitive, and that in the cauterization there is only pain when the sound nt of the urethra is touched with the caustic. These circumstances are iK ie more weighty, the older and tougher the strictures are, as only in re- I .nt cases, and when the stricture is easily extensible, and especially if soiort, can they be soon cured with the dilator. In strictures which are a }ry close, and also not very long, dilatation may, indeed, be of some rvice, but the cure is very tedious, and not so radical as by cauter- liation. The preference given to bougies, because long, and several s'i pictures can be treated together, applies equally well to the improved & odes of treatment with caustic. Also in great sensibility of the urethra, >j which the presence of a bougie can well be borne, and the above- ascribed symptoms {par. 1686) are to be dreaded, the sensibility is often It uch blunted by cauterization. These advantages, however, even in the st modes of applying caustic, are not to be received as general and iff iconditioiml; for even with them severe inflammatory symptoms and si lse passages may be produced, especially if the stricture be seated at wn e hind part of the urethra. The rapidity with which cauterization a -mgs about the cure, is counterbalanced by the transient nature of its £. suit, as the seat of the scar in the urethra, after complete subsequent ( latation, has always a decided disposition to contract, by which the most fiiibborn form of stricture is produced. I have seen in many instances, a id even in patients who have been cauterized by Ducamt himself, i lapses, the cure of which was exceedingly difficult. Although the dilata- 5 )n with the bougies is more tedious than cauterization, yet I must assign 1 them the greater certainty of a permanent cure. But after the natural * idth of the urethra has been restored the introduction of bougies must i; ! repeated from time to time ; and it must be especially noticed that in a ■r ricture, which has been many years forming, and has been of long con- 9: auance, the canal of the urethra is not in the course of a few weeks to be stored to its natural condition. It is especially not attending to these 2- rcumstances, that in dilatation, lays the foundation of relapses. Only very old hard strictures, in which dilatation cannot be effected, or is | O' painful and intolerable, do I consider cauterization to be indicated. t h Also in fungous degeneration of the mucous membrane of the prostrate gland, which ^urs in long-continued strictures ( par. 1675) when, besides a copious secretion of mucus, rrownd ueshy lumps is discharged with the urine, and the urethral canal is not ; 1LaLLE,man;d (®) has touched every degenerated mucous membrane with his ina in order to decide on its vitality. ,g.P°“TtJ’e employment of caustic in the treatment of strictures Astley Cooper i nrod, ™tU*le of caust,c has certainly keen very much abused, and in many instances Dlovml ,v ♦ TT ";orKt consequences, and I would say that it never ought to be •Khiml.T Z-? the :8tnct“re 18 accompanied with fistula in perinceo, and that entionofvT-5 nhen, ther<Tan bu no apprehension of the caustic occasioning nB ™ 1 “rine> wh,ch it has done when injudiciously employed.” (p. 224.) ver resort fi T7 US® the arme(* bougie m my own practice, and I atment in l h firSt lnstan,ce- My reasons for preferring the other methods of ism, it aiS() vpr‘ ry ca8^' are these -.—first, although the caustic often relieves the Patient to make wit1!!? U' f ^ue’ ,that iu many instances it enables a retention ofj.nf Wlth more facility; but in many instances, also, it brings ' the caustic I ' hffimorrhage 18 a more frequent consequence of the than of the common bougie, and it sometimes takes place to a very (a) Above cited, p. 76. 2 b 2372 TREATMENT OF great and to an almost dangerous extent; thirdly, where there is a disposition i rigors, the application of the caustic is almost certain to produce them ; and frequeutl the application of the caustic induces rigors where there had been no manifest dispositk to them previously; fourthly, unless used with caution, the application of. caustic ma induce inflammation of the parts situated behind the stricture, terminating in the form; tion of abscess. I have known some cases of abscesses formed under these circur stances, which, from their peculiar situation, have proved more troublesome and mo; difficult to manage than the original disease.” (pp. 61, 2.) Upon the same point Lawrence says“ From the various results which attend tl free employment of caustic in the urethra, I think that we may safely say it is a mode treatment not applicable to bad cases of stricture; that is, cases where the change •; structure is considerable, and the contraction is very extensive ; and in cases not so serio1 we know that the application of caustic is not necessary, for the simple bougie, sound. silver catheter, will accomplish the object we have in view. The use of caustic has, general, been very little favoured on the continent; they have generally healed stnctarv there without it, and have been averse to it from knowing its ill effects; it has be* partially employed in this country, but never got into very great use, and I believe k been generally less and less used, so that at present it is but seldom adopted in the treat ment of stricture of the urethra." (p. 802.) . , , With these opinions, as to the disadvantage of using caustic, I fully concur; and 1 rare employ it in treating strictures. Another reason may also be given against it, which i that though for a time, that time only, however, when the slough of the cauterized strictm has been thrown off, and the part is still sore, it may enlarge the passage of the urethr yet as the sore surface heals a new and closer scar is formed, by which the previous narrowed passage will be necessarily rendered still smaller. Every young student knov. the common mode of contracting apertures in the soft, and even in the hard palate, 1 producing sloughs of their margin, with the certain knowledge that the subsequent?| forming scar will diminish the size of the hole, and that a repetition of the same practi will at last completely obliterate it. And the result must be the same by its applicant to a stricture, although at first there may be a seeming improvement. 1 must comess', cannot understand the reason why, although objecting to the use of caustic under circumstances, Asti.ey Cooper allows it when there is pennaeal fistula.. J. h. o.J 1700. Cutting into the stricture, and subsequent dilatation,, lias bee also recommended for its more speedy removal ; and for this purpo; various modes of proceeding have been advised. 1 he older ^urgeo* used the trocar and the pointed sound (a). Doerner (b) recommended- tube through which a stilette, with a lancet point, should be passe* Dzondi (c) a catheter open at its end, through which a lancet-shape knife could be carried forwards and backwards ; and in like manner ais McGhie (d), Amussat (e), Despiney (/), Dieffenbach (y), and chou (Ji). These modes can only be employed with safety in short m not very tight strictures. The proper use of bougies and caustic; ce tainly render it unnecessary, and it can only be considered as in l when neither dilatation nor repeated cauterization have any resu > the stricture remains hard, and the urethra does not acquire its calibre. . f,] Jameson (i) seeks for the causes of stricture in an unnatural transverse fibres of the m. accelerator urina, at its fore part, which cr j right angle, as well as of the same part of the m. levator am, in contt urethra. For the radical cure of this disease, he cuts through the just namea partly through the penis, and partly through the perinaum. (а) Lafaye and Viouebi ; in Chopart, above ' cited, vol. ii. p. 328.—Allies, Traite des Maladies de l’Uretre. Fans, 1735. p. 73. (б) Vorschlag eines neuen Mittels, liartnackige Harnrdhrenvorengerungen Icicht und aus dem Grunde zu lieben ; in von Sikbold’s Chiron., vol. i. i; e) Above cited, pi. ii. vfcdedne, vol. : ) Archives generates de Medecin , V (c) Gescliichte des klinisclien Institutes fiir Chirurgie und Augenheilkunde zu Ilalle. 1818. P'(dj Edinburgh Med. and Surg. Journal, vol. xix. p. 301, L823. p. 140. 1826. May. . nJllpr. P- 11 (fl'l Hf.ckf.r’s allgem. A. i^hind f* 182(1. The cut should be made " ™ilaWtion , wards. Proper instruments for tli recommended. (A) Above cited pi. ii.^v.FFORpAh^ of 1 tion and Incision of ‘ London, lk UOH 11I1U Aliciaivwa V. - ' _ Urethra bv the Lancet Stilettes ■o. Third Edition. 051 (i) Medical Recorder, 1824, Apnl, P- bvoSTRICTURE OF THE URETHRA. 373 d Upon breaking through strictures with the conical catheter, refer to Retention of Urine ILTisia.) 1701. In stricture of the urethra behind the bulb, especially if a hard, i iff bougie be used, if with it, or with a catheter, force be employed, or if • iere be abscesses near the urethra, its walls may be easily torn, and by ! ie entrance of the catheter or bougie, a false passage formed either in ie spongy substance of the urethra or in the space between the bladder id the rectum. This is easily perceived when the instrument is pushed trwards, with much pain, and on its withdrawal, which is done readily, i ;) urine, but only blood flows out. This false passage, in most instances, venders the introduction of a bougie or catheter difficult or impossible, Because they always run into it. The careful impress with Ducamp’s ex- loring sound, and the introduction of a straight bougie or sound, or the i (plication of caustic with Lallemand’s sound, in the proper direction •' the urethra, may render the introduction of the catheter possible. If this cannot be done, and infiltration of urine occur, the following k iust be the treatment. A sound must be passed into the urethra as deep b* possible, and a cut made from without towards its point, which will cer- ■ inly be found behind the stricture. If the false passage be between the - rethra and the body of the penis, the urethra will be laid open, the v lint of the sound having been first bared. A sound is to be introduced 9 'ito the opened urethra, thrust towards the plans, and the stricture broken irough; or two sounds must be introduced, one by the mouth of the rethra, and the other by the wound to the stricture, and pressed together i the proper direction, for which purpose a pointed sound is best; and >i aus the stricture is penetrated. An elastic catheter is then introduced om the opening of the urethra in the wound, and carried into the ladder. If the false passage be between the urethra and the external i on, the cut must be made through the latter upon the sound, the urethra pened, and an elastic catheter introduced. The treatment of the wound to be conducted according to the rules already laid down {par. 965.) [I cannot agree with the method, here recommended by Cheeius, of passing the •und into the bottom of the false passage ; for, if this be done, there will be consider- >le difficulty in finding the urethra. The instrument should be carried down only to e stricture, and then its point cut upon; which done, the stricture must be cautiously it through, from before, backwards in the mesial line, by little and little, and the ethra behind the stricture continually sought for with a probe’s point, the patient ■>ng at the same time directed to strain, so as if possible to force out urine, the point escape of which will afford a guide to the exact track of the urethra. Much caution requisite, that the urethra be not completely cleft, and the suspensory ligament deeply it into, by which the difficulty in discovering the urethra is considerably increased. U 1S,?i. acci(lel:lt t0 which young and not much practised operators are very liable to ,1b and be sorely hampered by. The division of a stricture, and the re-connexion of portl°i‘s of the urethra by a catheter, is generally an operation of difficulty er the most favourable circumstances, but when the neighbourhood of the canal has ,av hi0Ugii Up Wlth false Passages, the difficulties are considerably increased. It ; V We t0. me,ition, that the first cut should be made in the raphe, and the whole . m the mesial line; and I do not think any material damage is done thrnmh8 t lr°Ugh th.e. bulb of the Penis’ which, indeed, is often absolutely necessary, lerel.v P[acU‘loners imagine that the generative functions of the organ are y interfered with, to -which, however, I do not assent.—J. F. S.] . Ilf Wh,en the urethra is closed, as a vice of the first formation, there rowirfV ia suPerficial membranous closure of its mouth, or the «i to i°^e* l(i,r may deeper situated. In the former case, the prepuce e ra'vn ^ack over the ylans, till the tip of the glans is exposed,374 OF CLOSURE AND and then a lancet thrust in, with its edges upwards and downwan tf. through the closing membrane, and reunion prevented by the inserti * of a piece of linen smeared with oil, or of a piece of bougie. In t £ latter, a thin trochar must be pushed in, according to the direction of t >. mouth of the urethra, till it enter the canal, which must be kept open I introducing a piece of bougie; or, if this cannot be done, the urethra * to be opened where the collected urine bulges it out. I was obliged to & this in an accidental case of growing together of the urethral orifit a arising from a destroying venereal ulcer, in which there was not the les « trace of an aperture in the hardened part to be discovered. When the urethra opens at some distance from the glans (Hypospadias) it will necessary for the relief of impotence consequent thereon, to perforate the glam witl k trocar up to the false orifice, to introduce a canula, and to heal up the lower openi: I which must be previously scarified. It is rare that this union can be effected, whi however, does not always frustrate the object of the operation, as the discharge of i j semen through the new aperture will take place. According to Walther (a), 1 J closure of the lower aperture should not be at all cared for. It has also been ad vis. 4 if this operation do not succeed, to cleave the glans from the urethra up to its very t d and to heal the wound over a tube introduced for the purpose, or to cut off oblique d a piece of the glans from the false urethral orifice to its tip. The cases, however, . % rare in which this degree of misformation becomes the cause of impotence. In c case, a child in whom the urethra opened at the root of the penis, Dufytjtren formed, by means of a thin trochar, a new canal, which he cauterized throughout its wb 1 length with the actual cautery ; and after the severe inflammatory symptoms had past I by, and the slough had been thrown off, he kept it open with an elastic sound. T fistula closed. XI.—OF CLOSURE AND NARROWING OF THE VAGINA. 1703. Closure of the Vagina {Atresia Vagina, Lab : Verschliessu* 4 der Mutterschiede, Germ.: Imperforation du Vagin, Fr.) may either a vice of the first formation, or may occur subsequently by its grtr < ing together. In the former case it may depend on union of the labia ai -! nymplice throughout their whole extent, in the midst of which common ;t a white line is perceived, through the hymen, which has no aperture, ai 4 is also both firmer and tougher, or by a similar membranous closure mo or less high in the vagina, or the passage of the vagina is closed byj fleshy mass. In the latter case, the closure of the vagina is the cons quence of a growing together which takes place after ulceration ai 4 wounds of its walls. _ , J 1704. If in congenital closure of the vagina, the orifice of the be not also closed up, it is rarely discovered before puberty. Then ? J menstruation comes on there is pain in the back, pressure, straining, weig ^ in the genitals, fullness of the belly, frequent urging to void the urrnr I sometimes complete retention, difficulty in going to stool, and the UK and no menstrual discharge appears. These inconveniences at first appe monthly, and subside ; but at last, when the collection of the blood is co siderable, they no longer subside, but increase every month, and gener I symptoms appear also, anxiety, pale countenance, pain in the belly, tain ness, loss of sleep, labour-like pain in the genitals. If the collected b _ 4 can find no outlet, it gradually increases in quantity, so that it disten s womb, and empties itself by the Fallopian tubes into the cavity 0 j belly, or menstruation may be set up in some unusual way. (a) Salzb. Med.-CUir. Zeitung, vol. i. p. 188. Edit, par Sanson (et »EO'">vo1- .iSjUt! I jgjg' fknbach ; in Hamo. waga*. (/>) Sabatier, Medecine Oporatoire. Nouv. vol. iv. part i.375 NARROWING OF THE VAGINA. _ ,samination always readily discovers the closure of the vagina. When 1 |u‘s depends on the hymen, or on a mere skin, it is always distended like a ac by the collected blood, descends and fluctuates. I- 1705. The narrowing of the vagina extends either throughout its whole li euo-th, or is confined to one part. In the former case it depends on an rrested development of these parts ; in the latter, is usually the conse- i ,uence of injury of the vagina with loss of substance, in difficult labour, i ii which a part, has been destroyed by gangrene, and the scar contracts the ■ anal, or bands are formed which cross the vagina, or partial union of the ' massage takes place. There are sometimes one or several small holes in he membrane closing the vagina, or the hymen, although pervious is un- • lSually tough. According to the degree of narrowing various symptoms jkj uay be produced, as obstructed menstruation, pain in connexion, and the ike. Although the complete introduction of the penis into the narrow v. agina be not possible, yet pregnancy may occur. 1706. The cure of the closure of the vagina consists in opening it to | uch extent that it can perform its functions, and in preventing its re- inion. This operation is more or less difficult, according as the closure is i .t the orifice or higher up in the vagina, as it is thinner or thicker, or 0 nore or less extensive. The prevention of reunion is often attended with :onsiderable difficulty. 1707. In complete closure of the entrance of the vagina by the hymen, he person must be laid on her back with the thighs drawn up and sepa- rated ; the labia are to be held aside by assistants, and a lancet passed nto the middle of the stretched membrane, without injuring the rectum or )ladder. The aperture is to be enlarged with curved scissors, or with a iarrow curved bistoury, introduced upon a director. When the hymen s firm and tough, some practitioners advise the removal of the flaps thus firmed. If the operation be performed on a child, or in a case where here is not any collection of blood, especial caution is requisite to avoid njuring the bladder or rectum. The membrane must then be divided with lautious cuts, and previous introduction of a sound or catheter into the irethra, to prevent it being injured. When the urethra is also covered vith this membrane, the operation must be performed with the greatest ’are. If the labia be completely united, they must be stretched as much is possible to either side, and divided in the middle with careful strokes the knife, till a director can be introduced, and upon it a bntton-ended bistoury must complete the necessary enlargement. The same proceed- ng must be adopted if the entrance of the vagina be closed by a fleshy mass (a). J 1708. If the mouth of the vagina be only partially closed by the hymen, 3r the labia be united, a director must be introduced through the aper- ure, usually existing at the upper part near the urethra, upon which a narrow button-ended bistoury is passed, and the connexion divided to the necessary extent. !nrl^fan^ il is better not t0 use a knife> bllt merely to pass a probe through the aper- wlit, (|WC , n t° the bottom of the os externum, and then pressing the connecting skin I, , Pr°t>e point upon the finger-nail, till it make its rallv , Pro!* P01n* upon the finger-nail, till it make its way through, which is gene- forward W , 1 ease.; one en<1 of tbe Probe must be held steady whilst the other is drawn aeedfnl ’ m lts way out A Plece of lint inserted between the parts is all that is required 7.° n.ot re^olluct a case among several on which I have operated, that imred any further interference.—J. F. S.] (®) Donavld ; in Journal do Mededne, vol xxxvii.376 NARROWING OF TIIE VAGINA 1709. If the closure be more or less deep in the canal of the vagiw\ | its condition and extent must first be carefully ascertained by examini® tion by the vagina and rectum. After emptying the bladder and rcctu, f the oiled finger of the left hand is to be carried up to the closed pa> $j& placed upon its middle, and a narrow scalpel, guarded with plaster I within an inch of its tip, or a pharyngotome, or Osiander’s hyster tome (a) is to be introduced and thrust in the direction of the vagin a through the closed part. The aperture is to be enlarged, rather 1 pressure than by sawing with the knife, according to the situation, whet]* it can be done without danger of wounding the bladder or the rectutM The point of the left finger is then to be introduced into the openin • which is to be enlarged with a button-ended bistoury, to the extent and the direction where it can be done most safely, and seems most necessaryJ In complete closure of the vagina, without any symptoms of retained menstrual flu l the operation is contra-indicated, as the womb may be wanting, and the blind extremb* of the vagina may touch the peritonaeum.. Columbus (A), Bousquet (c), Meyer (i and Kleinkosck (e), have given cases of this kind. Stein (f) and Busch (g) oj rated on such cases, and opened the peritonaeum, in consequence of which the worn ? died. In a case of Oberteuffer’s (A), the woman did not indeed die, but the open. • tion was useless. In all these cases the women had not menstruated. 1710. When the canal of the vagina is only partially closed, a butto: ij ended bistoury is to be introduced by means of the left fore-finger, or . director, and the connexions divided to the proper extent, without wournJ ing the bladder or rectum. Membranous bands are best divided wb I blunt-ended scissors, which are introduced upon the left forefinger, closure of the vagina accompany pregnancy, the operation must be fin ; performed, when, the pains coming on the membranes present, which a be easily felt through the vagina or through the rectum (i). [My friend Dr. Locock informs me that he attended a lady who, in consequence previous difficult labour with tearing of the perinccum and vagina into the rectum, hi M as she recovered numerous bands formed across the vagina. She became again pre ,i nant, and great fear was entertained as to the result of the delivery. He allowed tlty labour to go on as usual, and as the child’s head descended, and the bands becau 1 stretched, he divided them carefully with a bistoury, and the case did well. _ A secot i pregnancy and delivery followed under similar circumstances. If no operation be pe formed, and the child’s head cannot descend, the womb will burst, and as m the ca related by Kennedy (A), a triangular flap of the mouth aud neck of that organ thrown down into the vagina. In another case, which occurred to Labat, one band hi ■ been divided, and whilst waiting for pains to force the other, the whole recto-vagm > septum gave way, and the rectum and vagina became one cavity, leaving, however, tl b) sphincter aid unhurt.—J. F. S.] 1711- If the vagina be only narrowed, it may be attempted to enlarge it gradually with bougies, sponge tent, relaxing injections, and the lik< If pregnancy occur during such narrowing, the vagina often yields durin that period, and during labour, to such extent, that although previously >i had not the width of a quill, yet the expulsion of the child is effected ('I In cases where this yielding does not follow, some sufficiently deep cut« (a) Neue Denkwiirdigkeiten fur Aerzte und Geburtslielfer, vol.i. p. ii. f.4. Getting. 1727. (b) De re anatomica, book xv. p. 495. (c) Journal de Medecine, vol. vi. p. 123. 1775. (ri) Schmdckek’s vermischte chlrurg. Schrift., vol. ii. p. 299. (e) Dissert, de Utero deficiente. Prag. 1777. ff) IIufeland’sJournal. May, 1319. in') Rust’s Magazin,vol.x. party. (A) Stark's neucs Archiv. vol. ii. p. 227. (i) Nakoi.k. Krfalirungen und Abh»ndb'nP ■ is dem Gebiete der Krankheiten des neiWic ‘si’lilucts. Mannheim, 1812, p. 334.—-vvn ' n.n, 13., Handbucli r.ur Frkenntnissund Hedur. •r Frauenzimmerkrankheiten. hranki., tr eond Edition, vol. i. p.216. . (A) Johnson’s Med.-Chir. Jour., vol. xxxi. p* 1 339. (I) Antoine: in IIist.de 1'Academia de»^c cl, 1712, p. 48.-Ot«.Anat.2.-To.«oN,ib'<l 48, p. 8.I.—Obs. Anat. 1.377 AND OF THE WOMB. inust be made in the narrowed parts (a) ; and, if possible, they should be unde on the sides, as if they be directed from before backwards, there is langer on account of the growing together of the vagina with the bladder ncl the rectum, of wounding them. If the vagina be extremely "narrow, 9 pening the head by a cut through the perinceum may be required (b). 1712. If the menstrual blood be collected behind the closed vagina, it « scapes after the opening is made, and is black and free from smell. It xl uust be completely emptied by injection, otherwise it will putrify on the ^ dmission of the air, and unpleasant symptoms will be produced. At first & he most proper injections are those of luke-warm water, of decoction of v lallows or marshmallows; but so soon as there is the least smell tincture rr f myrrh should be added, or injections of bark, with the addition of acid, Ipirits of camphor, solution of chloride of lime, and the like. If there t e active inflammation, smart antiphlogistic treatment must be employed, j n order to prevent reunion, it is sufficient, after dividing the labia, to il eep them separate with a piece of oiled linen. After division at the 4 ntrance of the vagina, a sufficiently thick plug of lint must be intro- duced. Where the narrowing, was high up in the vagina, and tough, its n eunion is much to be feared ; in such cases it will be necessary to oppose 4 his disposition by the continued introduction of thick plugs of lint, e ponge tent, elastic cylinders, and the like. The use of dilators often very u onsiderably assists these means. If it happen that, under these circum- :ances, symptoms of violent irritation ensue, a corresponding cooling and u< oothing treatment must be had recourse to. JI.-OF CLOSURE- AND NARROWING OF THE MOUTH OF THE WOMB. 1713. The closure of the mouth of the womb is either a vice of the rst formation, or first occurs at a later period, and may depend on a mern- rane closing the aperture, or on its growing together. The symptoms lereby produced depend on the retention of the menstrual blood, or if ie c osure first occur during pregnancy, on the obstruction of the labour ' /Vhe Jormer case’ cIosure of the mouth of the womb may be resumed, if, on the appearance of the symptoms accompanying menstru- alarffesbi.nddth°ril*f ^“ii happen regularly, the womb gradually •ilarges, and the belly swells. On examination, the vagina is found pei - .a blT’ , 1 dlStend1ed m™th ofthe womb descends into the pelvis, and Zna pu;fhed;pwar^ aad backwards by introducing the fingers into the .STfill i ® n,Tth 0f the womb be closec* by membrane, it is often >und filled out like a sac. The closure of the outer mouth of the irefulTn? dJstin&uished W the finger, and that of the inner by the ire4’'n introduction of a sound. y mtinup If the bI°°d colIected in the womb cannot escape, it may as it ally andTrea'finf 1 it§ Way throu»h the Fallopian tubes into the f lXZSt*l7T°ma- B,"t if the, m°Uth 0f the womb be closed hich will escape TfiJJ® t0rn.by the assure of the blood 1716. When the 7 fr,emedy consists in opening the closed part. >eleft hand with its nil mouth of the womb is closed, the forefinger of irt to be opened unnn T °r SUrfafe upwards’ must be introduced up to the ^terotome is to’be n ? curved trocar, pharyngotome, or Osiander’s C«) Prtit j , T . b: P d’ and the membrane closing the mouth of the **. vol. vi.’j/. /i'(J rrait® <les Maladies cliirurgi- (6) Champenois ; in Journal de Medecine vol. xli.CLOSURE OF TI1E WOMB. 378 womb pierced. But if the canal of the neck of the womb, or its inn j mouth, be closed, then must the pharyngotome or hysterotome, introduc* in the way described, be carefully thrust through the part to be opened and when the cavity of the womb is penetrated the opening must he e I larged sufficiently with the bistoury. 1717. The discharge of the menstrual fluid must be favoured by i 1 jections, as was done in opening the vagina, and its reunion prevented 1 a sufficiently long plug of lint, inserted into the new opening, or by t 1 introduction of an elastic tube. The after-treatment must be guide 1 according to appearance of inflammatory and spasmodic symptoms. The inflammatory symptoms after this operation are so severe that DcpuytbtI decides upon entirely giving it up, and rather to allow the patient to die more quietly a >1 slowly than to speedily hasten her death by the operation, which always results fr I inflammation of the womb, and which is the more violent in proportion to the distens; 1 of the womb. (Pigne.) Successful cases following this operation have, ^ howev j refuted Dupuytren’s assertion. Du Cumin (a) employed Dupuytben’h dou >] lithotome in a case of secondary union of the mouth of the womb, and the result t 1 permanent. The greatest care must be exerted for the complete discharge of all i j decomposed blood. 1718. When the mouth of the womb has grown together duri j pregnancy, or is so changed by hardening and scirrhous degeneration, tl it will not dilate during labour, perhaps the whole lower part of the woi | may descend so low, that there may be dread of it teaiing, then the ing or enlargement of the mouth of the womb must be resolved 1 ( Hysterotomia vaginalis, Lat.; Scheiden-Kaiserschnitt, Germ.) 1719. In scirrhous degeneration, or hardening of the mouth of the won 1 a button-ended concave bistoury must be introduced into it upon the foil finger of the left hand, a cut made into it, and continued from two anc.; haff to three inches into the substance of the womb. The direction j the cut should be to the left, or right, or forwards, or backwards, or in a i other way, for the purpose of giving the wound proper size, accordu! to the position of the womb, and, as far as possible, to cut into the pi least changed. A cut has also been made in stricture of the mouth of tr womb, during labour, throughout its whole length (&)• The labour pi ceeds naturally, or may require to be finished by manual and instrument assi^tan C6 1720. If the mouth of the womb be completely closed, or cannot be fe a blunt-ended scalpel is to be introduced on the forefinger of the lj hand, and division of the protruded mouth of the womb made careful from before backwards, or from one to the other side. When its cavity reached, the cut must be made with the button-ended bistoury in the dire tion laid down, and if the cut cannot be made of sufficient size a secoi must be made to cross the former. The further treatment is the same in the former cases. See also upon this subject— . Lauverjat, Nouvelle Methode de pratiquer l’Ope'ration Cesarienne. Pans, • Berger, F. G., Ad theoriam de foetus generatione Analecta. Pnrmissa est rano embrvulciae casus brevis historia. Leipsise, 1818. Rayner, F. B.; in Salzb. Medic-chirug. Zeitung, 1821, p. 398. Wheelwright; in Medical Recorder, 1824, p. 361, April. Cafe; in the Journal hebdomadaire. 1824, May. h (а) Gaz. Med. de Paris, vol. viil. p. 91. 1840. (б) Moscati ; in Omodei, Annali Universal,[ 379 ] FOURTH DIVISION. DISEASES DEPENDING ON THE PRESENCE OF FOREIGN BODIES. 1721. Under the term foreign bodies are included not merely mechani- al bodies conveyed from without into our organism, but also those Products which, generated and retained in our organism, react upon it Injuriously. 1722. They may, therefore, be treated of according to the following division :— I. Foreign Bodies brought into our organism from without, 1. Into the nostrils. 2. mouth. 3. oesophagus and intestinal canal. 4. air tube. II. Unnatural collections of natural products. a. In their natural cavities and receptacles (retentions.) 1. Ranula. 2. Retention of urine. 3. the foetus in the womb or in the belly J —- —v/iuw ux xxx LUC (Ctesarean operation, division of the pubes, Gastrotomy.) b. External to their proper cavities and receptacles (extravasations.) 1. Blood-swellings in newly-born children. 2. Hsematocele. 3. Extravasation of blood in joints. III. Collections of diseased products. 1. Lymph swellings. 2. Dropsy of the mucous bags, joints. 3. 4. 5. 6. 7. 8. 9. the chest and empyema. the head and spina bifida. Collections of pus in the breast-bone. Dropsy of the pericardium. — belly. ovaries. 10. Hydrocele, formations of stony concretions. Sunt otTlf SrtLn TetC°i.n(!Lti0nS Wh,'ch have been already considered, [penetrating tom2 t f-,40 othersJ for instance, foreign Nation of the bile of the Knitti1, • tn a. cxtr.avasatlons m the various cavities, the DUe’ ot the 8Pltt‘e m the Stenonian duct, and the like.FOREIGN BODIES IN THE NOSTRILS, MOUTII, 380 First Section.- -OF FOREIGN BODIES INTRODUCED INTO THE BOD' ! FROM WITHOUT. 1723. What relates to foreign bodies, which in various ways com plicae | wounds, has been already treated of, {par. 306 and 338,) both as regan i their effect, and the necessity, and the kind and mode of their remove I Here only will be considered those which penetrate into the open caviti of our bodies. I.—OF FOREIGN BODIES IN THE NOSTRILS. 1724. Foreign bodies which get into the nostrils, are retained, either 1 . the swelling which they undergo, as beans, peas, and the like, which chi | dren frequently thrust into their nose; or, if they do not themselvi i enlarge, are enclosed by the swelling of the mucous membrane of tl 1 nostrils, which they set up. 1725. The removal of these foreign bodies is not very difficult if then be not much accompanying swelling ; it is often, however, rendered easie by the softness which most of them acquire as they swell up. For the removal, curved, dressing or polypus forceps are used ; and if they canix , be got out whole, we endeavour to break them to pieces. When, in gun-shot wounds of the face, balls remain lodged in the nostrils, they i general so quickly produce violent swelling and inflammation that it is impossible to g them out. In many cases they may remain till discharged by suppuration. But if, b their presence, violent symptoms are produced, they must be removed; and if, c account of the peculiar form and size of the foreign body, the opening of the nostri offer much obstacle, it may be necessary to slit up one or other of them, and after tl removal of the foreign body, to reunite them by the application of a stitch. _ ^ The position and size of foreign bodies is often such that they cannot be seized wit- ! the forceps; in these cases Dupuytren (a) advises that they should be pushed bacM wards, so as to drop into the mouth, which is the way they generally take if left aloe for a time to escape of their own accord. . . [ A sti.f.y Cooper used to mention an instance of a ball having been received in tu frontal sinuses, which for a time remained quiet, but at last its weight caused ulceration • it descended through the nostrils, and, passing through the floor of the nose into tb mouth, caused severe bleeding from the palatine artery.—J- T- S.j II.—OF FOREIGN BODIES IN THE MOUTH. 1726. Foreign bodies which remain sticking in the inside of the cheeks- in the tongue, or in the palate, may cause severe pain, difficulty in swa lowing, and very considerable swelling of the tongue. lhey can b easily discovered by careful examination, and removed with the forceps? If allowed to remain, they are generally soon got rid of by suppuration.- [I have very recently operated on a ease in which a piece of tobacco-pipe, an ’lic[\an a half long, had been lodged in the cheek for ten months, without the patient bem aware of it. He had fallen with his pipe in hand, and wounded the outside ot ^ cheek ; much swelling ensued, and after a few weeks the wound healed, but he coni , open his mouth completely nor without pain. Twice during the following twelvemo the swelling, which still remained, became very painful, increased, and suppnra The last time he came to me, and the piece of pipe was readily discovered, run from half an inch behind the angle of the mouth horizontally back towards tne ^ of the jaw, the mouth could not be opened more than half an inch, and each 1 jaw was depressed he had great pain at the angle of the jaw. I cut upon the scar, ^ was very apparent, but had some little difficulty in detaching the end of the pip*-. ^ scar had probably sunk into its hollow; this done, however, it was easm i ■ with dressing forceps, like a dirk from its scabbard, and was evidently smeau ^ mucoid secretion from the sides of the cavity, which it had made for itseit. ^ (n) Blessures par Armes d<- guerres ; publ. par. Maux et Taillarp, vol. ii. p- ■>v ft381 AND CESOPHAGUS. »r its the effects of the operation ceased : he opened his mouth freely, and without pain, ail the sinus filled up. Bodies may sometimes be thrust into the mouth, within the arches of the teeth, and hen there become so fixed by the elevating muscles of the lower jaw, as to be incapable e removal without assistance; I knew of a case of this kind in which a girl thus fixed i apple in her mouth, which was only removed by the medical attendant cutting it to ieces.—J. F. S.] III.—OF FOREIGN BODIES IN THE CESOPHAGUS. 1 Hkvin, Precis d’Observations sur les corps etrangers arretes dans l’CEsophage, et dans n . Trachee-artbre, avec des remarques sur les moyens qu’on a employes ou que l’on peut jtnployer pour les enfoncer ou pour les retirer; in Me'm. de l’Acad. de Chirurg., vol. i. M. 444. , Bordenave et Destrejieau, De corporibus extraneis intra CEsophagum haerentibus. aris, 1763. 4to. | Venel, A., Nouveau secours pour les corps arretes dans l’CEsophage, ou description de latre instrumens plus propres qu’aucun des anciens moyens, a retirer ces corps par la juche. Lausanne, 1769. - Monro, Alex , Jcn., M.D., The Morbid Anatomy of the Human Gullet, Stomach, id Intestines. Edinburgh, 1811. 8vo. Gcattani, Essayes sur l’CEsophagotomie; in Mem. de l’Acad. de Chir., vol iii ) 351. Eckholdt, J. G., Ueber das Ausziehen fremder Korper aus dem Speisekanale und jr Luftrohre. Kiel und Leipzig, 1799. Large 4to; with plates. Nacta, Dissert, de corporibus peregrinis ex CEsopbago removendis. Workum "303. ’ Vignarbonne, J., Quelques propositions sur l’CEsophagotomie. Paris, 1805. Yacca Berlinghieri, Della Esofagotomia e di un nuovo methodo di eseeuirla. isa, 1820; with a plate. 1727. Bodies may remain sticking in the oesophagus on account of their •nze or hardness, or their irregular pointed surface. Bodies are often re- i tsiined in the oesophagus, which, as regards their size and character, might i ithout difficulty have passed through it, in which case it would seem i iat their fixture must be ascribed rather to a spasmodic contraction of b tat tube. The stoppage is commonly at the upper or lower part, and nrely in the middle of the oesophagus. ' [I recollect several years since examining the body of a man who was brought to the * •)8P,tah and supposed to have died of apoplexy. On accidentally removing the tongue mrrnx, and neighbouring parts, an enormous lump of beef was found completely fil?ing’ | ) the whole pharynx, and compressing the epiglottis. Inquiring about the circum- l ances of his death, it was ascertained that, whilst eating soup for his supper he sud- uny rose from the table, went out of doors, and shortly after was found dead’ near the 1 'r,efho d- The preparation is in the Museum at St. Thomas’s. I have known an instance occurring twice in the same person, who, had he not been ; medical man, would probably have been suffocated before assistance corld have been .lamed. In eating his breakfast quickly, he suddenly felt choked, could not swallow h,S th,ro!lt> and could not breathe; he thrust his fingers back to try and *he morsel> lia whlch he succeeded, and found the small portion of meat Wowed was attached by a thread of cellular tissue to another portion, which had ' ^effort ?g ed iV hlS tYCth,’.and thread had Pressed dowu the epiglottis, so that cond tlm! lY lWa °W made hlm Stl11 worse- The same accident occurred to him a nd time, but was in the same way relieved.—J. F. S.] J1728. The symptoms produced under this condition are, local pain :tm0 ,|Cfl,C01ntraction of the esophagus, disposition to vomit, choking’ ■ CU!-y 10 S,Wa!lowin^> symptoms of suffocation, and frequently irtlv f';tt;;Yatl0n’ wh.!ch dePend Partly on compression of the windpipe, KK hrJ iiSpaT0dlC,CYntraCti0n of the 9lottis‘ Sometimes, and, if the ) small and painful, there is merely a local painful sensation. The382 FOREIGN BODIES inflammation may also be so violent, that it may run on to gangrenil though this in general only occurs when forcible efforts are made for t i removal of the foreign body. 1729. It is often very difficult to decide upon the presence of a foreig-»| body in the cesophagns. When a body more or less bulky, or with i j irregular surface, is swallowed, if the patient feel pain at a particul > spot” if swallowing be difficult and painful, and the respiration intflt i fered with, yet these symptoms may be merely the consequence of t .1 descent of the foreign body, of wound of the wall of the (esophagus at. • particular spot, and of the inflammation resulting therefrom. If a bull j body remain sticking in the upper part of the oesophagus, it may often Aj felt externally ; or, if the tongue be strongly depressed, its presence m; be ascertained either by seeing it, by feeling it with the finger, or with ! whalebone or elastic sound, or with Dupuytken’s (a) oesophageal sound of elastic silver, with a little spherical ball at its extremity. These exam:: nations must be always made with exceeding carefulness, and especial ; i may be only made when active inflammation has not yet set in. ■ fit not unfrequently happens that, after a person has had a fish-bone stick in 1 cesophaqus, though he can take food, yet a soreness remains, which is generally suppos. to arise merely from the scratching of the lining membrane, and will subside in a ft days it being presumed that, as he swallows solid food, there cannot be any thing lodginj and this more especially if an oesophageal bougie have been passed into the stomac That this opinion may be too hastily formed, is proved by the following example, friend of mine, whilst eating fish, suddenly felt that he had swallowed a fish-bone, ai became so uncomfortable that he was obliged to leave the table, and within a couple . hours went to his medical attendant, who pulled out a piece of fish-bone with forcef On the following day he still continued very uneasy, his throat being very sore, ai felt assured that he had still a piece of bone in his throat; his medical friend, howevt vcinmlW Pnnsidered the sensation depended merely on the scratch of the bone I and considerably expanded by it. A halfpenny stuck six months, and was afterwards extracted by Moni (p. 18.) He also mentions an instance in which an e oriffin of the gullet, became lodged in a sac of some XlliUlCOU? - v length, which descended belun mIN THE CESOPHAGUS. 383 swallowing be not entirely prevented, or by the injection of a solution tartarized antimony into a vein (a). It must, however, be observed, in ference to the vomiting, that if the body firmly close the oesophageal be, and will not be moved by the sickness, the mischief is increased, and en tearing of the oesophagus may ensue. If the foreign body be at the upper part of the oesophagus, it may often, the tongue be strongly depressed, be seized with the finger, or with a ir of oesophageal forceps, and withdrawn. If it be lower down, it may removed also by the forceps, or a blunt hook, formed of a piece of wire nt together; or by a whalebone sound with a piece of sponge attached its extremity, which is to be passed below the body, and when the jnge has swollen by the absorption of the moisture, may be withdrawn, ttle pointed bodies, as needles, fish-bones, and pieces of bone, are gene- ly more easily removed with the sponge. A flexible sound, havino- its tremity aimed with several loops of metal, has been recommended for ■ s purpose. Bulky bodies, which completely fill the oesophagus, are very licult of removal, because the instrument cannot be passed beyond them, tempts at removal must always be made with great care and considera- n. Delpech (b) objects to the use of the hooks and metallic loops as efficient and dangerous. 1 S* peculiar operation of the vomiting is not merely the commotion but the inverted fraction of the muscular fibres of the (Esophagus. For the purpose of making the pAn?vnlliPfery’ mU?lk?1r°,US and 0lly remedies. melted butter, oil with camomile 5 6gg a,nd.thc most be administered. Tobacco clysters are often ! ,ntaoe0uts. m pi oducmg vomiting and diminishing the spasm. The removal of a , - o°k, which had been swallowed, the line of which remained hanging out of the Tlet’aho^tS H a fe ^ bullet through which the thread was passed, and the by FmoHT (c). n 10 CUrVe °f thG h°°k S° aS t0 Shidd its point, is men- 1732. In thrusting down foreign bodies into the stomach, a whalebone lTtht|a of sponge at one end, commonly called a probang, first ed with oil, is employed. This mode is to be practised especially if A,tdeign b-°fy ui S°ft- and have a smooth surface; but if it bePrough or ■rown anTJm VnJUFy tofthe ?S0Pha9us be effected by thrusting l^nce in ti ! 7 f' SUCh character’ that on account of its mere >-nce in the oesophagus, dangerous symptoms may be dreaded Under mo8V'rge"t tie { 1st1 down Tb 16 h,”dy,ln a»y other way, will determine that it should be Lad and tb, liL^'f"! 7 bealImved to swallow mouthfuls of chewed i .h'ouUeBJm ' b0<'y,i0"'n, a"d “ bl°W bet'V“n t did ■n and ^kl^-d the XSS C:iir^edi“g to thrust I S^nTf & J235*!*, a ^ b cnioved; the important of ddn^ thk’!° ”7” ifbe within reach, and can * Vl* P* »10.—Grakpk. July, (rf) MS. Lectures.384 TREATMENT OE FOREIGN however, became worse, were followed by convulsions, and, between ten and elew o’clock of the same evening, the child died. Having obtained permission, Coon opened the larynx with a lancet, and found a piece of fish-bone situated just at tl alottis which he readily hooked out with his nnger-nai . # i D Brown (a) mentions the case of a woman who in eating oatmeal porndg swallowed a piece of a broken delf plate, which pierced the asophagus on the right s.d midway between the cricoid cartilage and the breast-bone. She soon made an effort vomTt lnd a discharge of blood from the mouth ensued and repeated on the passage a p“obang which she thought displaced the bit of delf. On the day following she w Sd’a protog was twite passed with facility. Leeches a.td eeHloti, telt exteinany , P & the inflammation had almost ceased, and she swi were applied, ai siJwas attacked with pain in the stomach, which last, lowed well. On the mnth ^omRed a pint of dark foetid blood, which continued two days, and on twelfth dav she spat up more than a pint of brown feet as that organ was comparatively empty from the acc t it of the stomac. the fecal discharges. i Town has given me the following ca* low it with the morsel in her mouth. In ^P^ ^ CQU|h and , throat, produced a constant pncki g, c shortly after by a medical man,» peated attempts at deg utition. aLse of local irntatk examined the throat, and, finding &g wag worse> aud an emetic was given, whi- and treated it accordingly. y ^ threaten immediate suffocatr quickly aggravated the symptoms to suchmnextent, as to tbrea ^ ^ ^ ^ Twenty-four hours aftei the acciden , immediately below the cricoid cartilag once to perform tracheotomy, which he d d y catheter, which relieved h and, scooping out its under edge, he in u subsided he made an examinan directly. Four hours after, when the> spa® %suWe4 he m ^ , with his finger, by the mouth and could just fcel^ b■ COmmand of the fing- made, the point of what lie took for a pm , but it was into the throat, ai He then passed a pair of dressing foi ceps, bent f P P . during two hours, after persevering efforts, as the patient s ex laiis ion ^ penetrated the mucr last succeeded in pullingtout a bnsOe,, whuch, he ;r?itatio„, had preniue membrane at the root of the epiglottis, and, y t F S 1 Spasm of the glottis. The patient speedily recovered.-J. F. *] * 1733. When the body lias caused severe inflammatio « u traction of the oesophagus, all attempts at its and the treatment confined simply to blood-letti o' these mea tions, and if there be accompanying spasm, opium. ^have dimi the inflammation, swelling and contraction of the oph^us ^ ished, it not unfrequently happens that the ho j B 4 A lSneQ) a au - M A removed one way or another. . . j ffn frequently lot 1734. Whether the body be drawn up or thrust ani„iation, a inconveniences remain in the asophagus, “ and soothi snnnuration, which require corresponding antipniog subsequt treatment. ’ Narrowing of the axophagus^[SnU ensue, period, and if the body be bulky, s«PP^o» « ,L. 1 („) Edinburgh Med. and surg. Journal, >ol. xxx P385 BODIES IN THE (ESOPHAGUS. 1735. Thin and pointed bodies, needles for example, may penetrate 2 walls of the oesophagus and gradually make their way through neighbouring parts, so that they often reappear at very distant rts. This more frequently occurs when the bodies have passed into 3 stomach, and then travel through the different organs, sometimes companied with no pain, but at other times with great pain. i 1736. When the foreign body can neither be pulled up nor thrust down o the stomach, if it produce urgent symptoms, and be not very low in ft 3 oesophagus, or if it be of such kind that its descent into the stomach i juld be productive of great danger, then it must be removed by cutting #i;o the oesophagus ( (Esophogotomia.) This operation is always one of Mi most difficult and dangerous, though under the circumstances it must ti held to be the only means of relief, and by observing certain rules, is Mich facilitated. The parts of which injury is to be feared are the ; t'otid artery, the internal jugular vein, the recurrent nerve, and the thy- b Ideal arteries. ■JJallisfx (a), as well as Benjamin Bell and Richerand, only allow cesophagotomy t den the foreign body can be felt externally, and in the contrary case will have an e ining made in the windpipe to prevent the danger of suffocation. According to AlisG (6), however, the operation may be undertaken, if nothing be felt externally, if .y the place be known where the body is situated. In these cases also the mode of ^ration laid down by Vacca Berlinghieri may be safely performed. ■ As the more serious symptoms which occur when a foreign body sticks in the pha- ! x or oesophagus, depend, on the pressure it makes upon that part of the air-tube to rgich it is opposite, I think it would be advisable to perform tracheotomy in prefer- PjP' to the difficult and dangerous operation of cutting into the oesophagus. This mode t r treatment has been successful, as in the case of the boy who attempted to swallow :e pistoles wrapped in a piece of cloth, mentioned by Habicot (c). The packet * the narrow part of the pharynx, and he was almost suffocated. Attempts to > ust it down were made; but in vain. Habicot, therefore, to relieve the most urgent I cut *nto the windpipe ; the difficulty of breathing, the swelling and blueness tbe lace ceased immediately ; and the money then thrust down with a leaden sound * 0 “e stomach, was passed by stool a few days after.] ' - ^■ccorc^no jo Verduc-Guattani, the operation is to be per- ’ med Y1 following manner. The patient having been placed in an I f n-ehair, or laid upon a table, and his head properly held by an assistant, i ut from two and a half to three inches in length must be made verti- 1 |ly through the skin and cellular tissue, upon the leftside of the air-tube l>ween the larynx and the collar-bone. Then, the assistant having drawn F the wound sunder with blunt hooks, and the blood beino- ,0r 'v*th a moist sponge, it must be endeavoured to dig under the «?e ot the thyroid gland with the handle of the scalpel, and keeping still tne one side of the air-tube, and using the blade of the knife as little I !*• *, e’. esophagus is to belaid bare, and so cut into that the rif" n° y ,may be removed with a pair of straight forceps, without m tL 'e eC£es th.e wound. If the foreign body be a little distant iv sni ?pemno> a Pair °f curved forceps must be used for its removal, well aUn fJ?!86 8 •D?US1t be immediately taken up during the operation, U through6 hyr0ldeal arteries> if they come in the way, before cutting- !"n^|hi,Lh a cut.is made through the skin, close to the middle of j ned by the division’ dlvl*10P of the cellular tissue in the triangular space : e- ami the Isonho^fi thJS,muscle ,belore ,ts insertion into the hreast- and collar- Btribed. 1 J lUC bare and cut into, is manifestly less safe than that just ! ®y*tema Chinirgim vol. ii. p 421 o Vfpm A' r,A1* , (°i Operationen, vol.ni. p.40. ^OL. ii { ' M • de 1 Acad- dc Chir., vol. xii. p. 243. Edit, in 12mo. 2 C386 FOREIGN BODIES 1738. In those cases in which the foreign body forms no percepti swelling externally, and for the purpose of especially projecting the w of the oesophagus, it has been recommended to introduce a silver cathet or a forked curved sound, through the mouth into the oesophagus, and raise its left wall into the wound. The arrow-sound has also been advi for this purpose. Riciierand (a) objects to the introduction of any strument into the oesophagus, as a guide. Vacca Berlinghieri (6) b ij however, proposed an instrument by which cesophagotomy is more e and effectual than by any other mode. 1739. The patient is placed on a low stool; the head held four against the chest of one assistant, and the rest of the body by anotl t The skin-cut is to be made on the left side of the neck, in the direct*' of the thyroid and cricoid cartilage, on a fold of skin from the upper e< of the thyroid cartilage to two inches below it; if the m. platysma myou be not then cut through, it must be divided with a second stroke of the kn. into the underlying cellular tissue. The ectropoesophag, with the sprrn thrust fully forwards and thus completely closed, is to be introduced deeply into the oesophagus, and so directed that its lower end correspond to the lower angle of the wound. The fore and middle fingers are n to be introduced into the side rings of the canula, and the thumb into t of the shaft, which being drawn back, its spring end is set free, and with olive-shaped knob, the wall of the oesophagus is thrust into the wound. 1 instrument is now held steadily by an assistant, the cellular tissue ca fully cut into, and the oesophagus laid bare by drawing the m. star mastoideus backwards, the m. sterno-hyoideus and sterno-thyroideiu t wards, (with the assistance of the finger or a blunt hook,) and tt the m. omo-hyoideus, which crosses the wound obliquely, is divided oi director. The oesophagus now appears to more than the extent ot inch, and must be cut into on the side, and a little forwards, between canula and the diverging arms of the shaft, for two lines above the oh shaped knob of the latter, and the cut enlarged upwards as far as n seem necessary. A blunt hook is then introduced into the f°Pha^. keep it steady. The ectropoesophag is now taken out, and the tore* body removed with the finger or forceps. The ectropoesophag may be so easily arranged, that it may be used even if the operat be performed on the right side. 1740. According to Begin (c), it is impossible to operate upon t oesophagus in the region prescribed by Yerduc-Guattani s p > properly to introduce the instruments recommended for mtroducuu others, and to retain them in suitable position, as the irritated par bear constant touching, and the breathing lias already become dim ^ His method, which is founded on the most careful considera u anatomy of the parts concerned, and which has been severa performed on living persons, is the following :—T lie patien » narrow bed, his shoulders and chest slightly raised, the hea • ^ back, and supported with a pillow, and the neck m°deratcly ^ The operator standing™ the left side makes a out though ^ V ifc The operator buuiumg uu tnc id. oiw, - ~ ,:„Ar>inp the groove between the sterno-mastoid muscle anil the n IP*’ he begins a finger’s breadth above the sterno-clavicular articulation, (a) Nosoeraphie Cliirurgicale, vol.liS. p.260. Cb) Journal von Graefk und von aether, vol. V. p. 712.—Chirurg. Kupfortaf., pi. cxxxv. (c) Diet, dc Med. ct dc xii. p. 152; and Nollv 'i‘<'m^ond Edfiion- Med. Operat., vol. i. p. becoIN THE CESOPIIAGUS. 387 y rries up as high as the upper edge of the thyroid cartilage. lie now e , titles with long strokes the m. platysma-myoides and cellular tissue, and Kcends deeply into the cellular space between the windpipe and ceso- agus within, and the deep vessels and nerves without, which are covered the sterno-mastoid muscle, and the assistant, standing on the patient’s ;ht side, draws inwards the parts on the inside of the wound with his o gers or with a blunt hook, and the operator, with the fingers of his left i-iiimi thrust in more deeply draws outwards the parts on the outside of the i'.iund, and with the point of his finger covers the vessels and nerves. ; fete m. omo-hyoideus is then seen running obliquely outwards and down- Si .rds in the upper half of the wound, which, a director having been intro- id ced beneath, must be divided. The cesophagus now appears, and is >! ..own by its position behind the windpipe and larynx, its round fleshy V -face, its movements and hardness in the attempts to swallow. If the ! reign body form a projection, it must be immediately cut upon; but ooder contrary circumstances, the knife is to be carried boldly in the 0 ddle of the wound parallel to the axis of the cesophagus, into it, and an s gening made about half an inch long, from which immediately some icus and spittle flow out, and in which, by the contraction of the cular fibres, the mucous membrane becomes visible. A button-ended v toury is now introduced upon the forefinger, and the wound enlarged ii liciently upwards and downwards to admit the introduction of "the .-•ceps. It is better to enlarge the wound upwards rather than down- , rds, as wounding the superior is less dangerous than wounding the erior thyroideal artery. Every bleeding vessel must be immediately 1 ; :en up during the operation. J 1741. No precise rules are laid down for the removal of the foreign i ly; it must depend on the delicacy of the touch, manual dexterity | ,1 thought of the operator upon the moment, to determine how the 11 acuities may be best overcome. Curved and pretty strong polypus- . ceps, with double curves, are in general most convenient, and a ncient number of them, of various form and size, must be in readiness. (. EGIN.) lJ!LAffter thr rem0?1 °f ,the forei> bodJ> quick union should r , at according to the usual mode, with dressings; the edges of the und are to be brought close together with sticking plaster, and the head t inclined a little backwards and to the right side. For the first eight ,s the patient must be supported only with nourishing clysters and baths • ' t6n w;.th gelatinous substances in small quantities by the mouth at the p^ients tormenting thirst must be quenched with Seville orange 1 SU1g,ar’ (Par• 473>) and taken into the mouth. But according -*egin, should the wound unite neither by sticking plaster and still l„f ’ £?>“ i" ‘b* condition of the walls Jthe tte mo„ be? and 80 O".agglutination/as if, orfina^wfunds Ii Srf„rat5CSbbUt'f8'* f‘°uld be br<>“gbt together, covered JS t th a Scn?rT° , 'V1 7?!’ a,rf wa*,inS '««' compresses, • °my te*™?k T ^ ?,.the pat,e"t subjected t0 iophal some „o?S, ? ? ,,".caPablIlly to want of rest and so » "is by —[ 388 ] jy OF FOREIGN BODIES IN THE STOMACH AND INTESTINAL CAN/ IIevin, above cited, p. 590. 1743. When bodies, insoluble by the powers of the digestive organs,! thrust down or swallowed into the stomach, they may produce differ, symptoms, depending principally on their form and nature. Bui bodies often pass without any difficulty through the whole intestinal can pointed bodies are easily retained, and produce frequently limaiiimat and ulceration. pof the foreign substances received into the stomach, the most remarkable am- is that given by Dr. Marcet (a), of the sailor who swallowed a number of clasp knixi In June, 1799, after having witnessed a display of jugglers’ knife-swallowing, he, l-.; drunken fit, boasted he could do the same, and accordingly swallowed four P?cket-km. successively. On the following afternoon he passed one knife by stool, and on the follow dav two more, but the fourth knife never came away, nor gave him inconvenience. March, 1805, in the course of a couple of days, he swallowed fourteen knives more; on the following morning was attacked with constant vomiting and pain at his stom; which compelled him to go to the hospital, and in the course of a month, he was sal- delivered of his cargo.” In December of the same year, he swallowed on one day f and on the next fourteen more. He was very ill the next day, and obliged to put him under medical care, but without benefit till three months alter, when having taken ca oil he felt the knives “ dropping down the bowels,” and became easier, but was not aw of having passed any. ifjune, 1806, he vomited a knife-handle; m November, passed some fragments, and again m February, 1807. In August of the samey he was admitted into Guy s Hospital, where at first his account was not believed bm held fast to his story, and as he suffered intense pain at the region of the stomach, at hardness was thought to be felt, some credence was at last noticed were found of a deep black, indicating an accumulation of his bowels. On examining the rectum, a portion of the knife was felt lying acrossit, could not be extracted on account of the great pain he suffered in the attemPt* j6! it. Various attempts were made to dissolve the knives, but without success, and at ta in March, 1809, he died in a state of great emaciation On exone J blades and one of the back springs were found in the intestines, the latter, and a half long, had transfixed the colon opposite the left kidney, and projected mto cavity ofthe abdomen, while the other was stretching across the Athene o extremities actually fixed in the muscular paneto of the pelvis. Nostool ever, escaped, nor were there any signs of active inflammation. thirty or forty fragments, of which thirteen or fourteen were evidently l“,m corroded and diminished in size. They are all m the; Museum at Guy s Another instance is also related by Dr. Baknes, of Carlisle ( ), J gP ’ t 17th November, 1823, accidentally swallowed a table-knife with a tone hand , e nine inches in length. The account given by the man was, that ?,‘?®brou for a small sum of money to swallow a table-knife, a new one was from a neighbouring shop. The method by which I pretended to swallow it ^.feI the handle and part of the blade down my throat, and hold the point of t with my teeth. When I was on the point of drawing it out again,some p - • ^ unexpectedly behind me, gave me a smart stroke on the back, the *uVPrl^ , ; caused me to lose hold of the point, and immediately the whoie knife slipped^ the stomach. I directly made very violent eflorts to throw it up, but l ’ endeavours of the SurgLn were equally useless.” The man * much alarmed, expecting instant death. Attempts were made withtheid ^ long forceps to seize the knife, but it was far beyond their reach, a . in felt on the external surface of the stomach. Next day he comp aim i * . stomach, for which he was bled, and a clyster given; and aftemrM* y g the left shoulder shooting across the chest to the stomach, lie was • tly on after the handle of the knife could be felt very distinctly by P 1>ss1"g..ft, 0f‘tca < navel though slight pressure gave him considerable pain; but a sing liisappea' hide food of any kind distended the stomach so much that it entirely disappc (a) Meil.-Cliir. Trans., vol. xll. P. 52, 1822. Jameson's Edinburgh Philosoph. Journ., vol xi p. 319, ia--l-—Hadheld, AStatement of the Case of W. Dr.vrsTEB, consequence of having swallo Middlewich. A pamphlet.FOREIGN BODIES IN THE STOMACH AND INTESTINAL CANAL. 389 is rious suggestions were made, and among others gastrotomy, but the patient would not isent toTt. He was able to walk about a little during the day, and could sleep 0 night on his back, but not on either side. He was frequently squeamish and sick at mach, and sometimes felt a severe twisting pain in that organ. He kept quiet 1 • 28th December, when he left on his way to London, but died at Middlewicli on the j h January following. From the account it is very evident that he never laboured Oxlcr any urgent symptoms, and seems to have been worn out rather by terror and ' ciety. “On opening the belly,” Hadfield says, “my first attention being of course d fee ted to the stomach, I found the knife beginning to protrude through a gangrenous e 'iiing about two inches and a half from the beginning of the duodenum, on which part V knife had lain. After opening the stomach, I found that the point of the knife rested that part of the greater curvature, almost exactly opposite to the cardia, and r | likewise very nearly perforated the coats. * * * The handle of the knife was ri- npletely dissolved, the rivets had disappeared, and a considerable portion (at least : | --third) of the blade also. What was left appeared exceedingly rusty and black.” Ih is knife is in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons. In the same collection I s - some knives voided by a soldier in St. George’s Hospital.] . 1744. Bulky bodies are most commonly retained in the stomach and i the ileo-colic valve. They may remain in the stomach a considerable nie without causing symptoms, which, however, they easily produce the intestinal canal, even if they be not fixed. The symptoms Specially depend on the stoppage of the alimentary canal, or on the inflammation and injury which the foreign body produces by its peculiar in. In the first case symptoms of ileus arise; in the second, more less severe enteritis. Oxidizable metals for example: copper coins eoduce no peculiar symptoms, as their oxidation, whilst resting in the I mentary canal, is exceedingly slow and not to that extent, which rduces dangerous effects (a) ; indeed, in general, they are not long t -ough retained. r1 In the College Museum there is a very interesting preparation from a woman who ; d long suffered under symptoms of gall stones, and at last died exhausted. On ; immation, the gall-bladder was found thickened, contracted, and both it and the liver \ imately adherent to the duodenum and adjacent organs. Between the gall-bladder \ a duodenum was a large ulcerated ragged opening of communication, through which arge gall stone had passed, and, getting into the ileum, had blocked it up. Above s part the gut was distended with air and biliary fluid. In the Museum at St. Tho- i t 5 s there is a portion of small intestine from a child, which is in two or three parts ! nP;fte y filled with lumps of hardened stool, in appearance resembling album Grcc- t n, the result of quantities of carbonate of magnesia, which becoming entangled with mucus of the bowel, had formed complete plugs of an inch or more in length. ’ i J? vTlge Musemn also possesses an example of cherry-stones lodged in the eacnrn, rWvfii • n swal,ow.e<1 l»y a boy twelve years of age, at least sixteen months before y. aeatn, during which time he continually suffered from symptoms of chronic enteritis. i tn£CS^AFF ^ glV6S an account of a madman who swallowed a silver table-spoon in ,' ,r’ ’827' . Soon after his health gradually declined. Although he lived abstemi- , uni,;! ,ge<-StlVe or£ans were disordered; he suffered from dyspepsia, and frequently it all ti? °* an aCUte pain 1,1 ,he rcS,on °f the cacum ; and he persisted in declaring be, ‘ “SF syniPtoms were occasioned by the spoon he had swallowed. His account was anv W esPec,a"y cautious examination of the belly was made without detection ■ i?i 7* He. c°ntlnued t0 suffer from the effects of pain in the situation of sed wUi a- CT"’ and frequently said he felt the motion of the spoon. He was mptomsofH?rrhOC?’,-an(1 the evacuations were often mixed with blood and pus. rerlimL umeased hver came on, and were followed by ascites and oedema of the water and * n these Clrcumstances Langstaff tapped him, drew off a bucketful •efullv erlil „.?as ‘greatly emaciated, I was induced,” says Langstaff, “to ected^a solid snhstn!' ’u1 Could the sP00n, when, to my astonishment, I ■ ^ ^ u sta,1ce in the situation of the cacum, which induced me to believe surl’Em^n^«onnprnon!’nP<'vo” n* f* .GO Catalogue of the Preparations, &c., con- 5t,tut,n§ ,hu Anil,omi™1 3 •••■u.uuuv.iu in uacuui in ur.utu Lanostaff. London, 1842. Svo. p. 228-32.FOREIGN SUBSTANCES 390 that it was the spoon he had swallowed.” He died about twenty months after, and .k- examination it was found that “ the mucous coat of the stomach, as well as the dui Hil num, jejunum, ileum, and caecum were more vascular than natural, and there * fit evident signs of their having been ulcerated on different portions, and that nature } K. put a perfect stop to the ulcerative process, by uniting the boundaries to the submuc J. tissue. The greatest degree of mischief had been effected by the passage of the sp fit through the Ueo-ccecal valve, which was greatly dilated and the circumference thidlg ened. The mucous coat of the caecum was nearly destroyed by ulceration. The sp - sfi was found in this intestine, with the bowl downwards, where it had formed a la fifi sac, which prevented its passage into the colon." The preparation is now m f- Museum of the College of Surgeons.] 1745. Pointed bodies, when they remain hanging in the’walls of intestines, excite inflammation to such extent as to produce union of surface with the peritonaeum or any other part, so that when suppurat takes place by the continued operation of a foreign body, it may make, way in different directions, and proceed either to the surface of the tux or even into any other cavity, as, for instance, into the bladder. rin rare instances a foreign body will make its way through the walls of the intes- and belly, as in the case of the boy ten years old, from whom plum and cherry stc were discharged by an abscess communicating with the gut, and which are in the Colt collection.] P746. In order to protect the stomach and intestinal canal against • effects of any such body, mucilaginous ensheathing food, and especia antiphlogistic treatment and purgatives, to hasten the passage of i foreign body through the alimentary canal, must be employed. [This is the ordinary practice usually employed; but I am not sure that the late. Francis Chantrey’s proceeding under similar circumstances is not preferable had accidentally swallowed the gold fastening of one of his teeth, and, being;m alarmed, came to my friend Green, to consult with him about the matter, at the SH time suggesting the propriety of eating freely of suet pudding, ^th the hope of tangling the little gold plate, and favouring its passage through the bowek Gw saw no particular objection to this proposition, and accordingly a due . medicinal pudding was swallowed. Nothing more was heard or seen of thetoottph and whether passed or not is unknown, but it never gave any inconvenience. . • 1747. If there be a foreign body in the stomach, or in the aliments canal, which will not pass off by the usual ways, and if it danger to life, it must be removed by cutting into the stomach (('astr° mia) or into the intestine (Enterotomia.) To decide on tins 'ery • gerous operation is always extremely difficult; it should on y ,e u taken when most positively called for by the situation of t ie oiel? r„d on this point the symptoms are very doubtful. The tntestme m ah. the foreign body is may be far from the wall of the belly. > s ° ° . ■ very severe symptoms occur, the operation should not be ras i J on • and if they have already set in, the result of the operation is th doubtful. Gastrotomy has, however, been performed successful j v /> Delfech (6) considers that there never can be such foreign body in the stomach and intestinal canal as to ld« o tomy If there be a swelling, with fixed pain, the treatment should be ^ out wVion thpckm is distinctly Dressed up by the suppuration, t u -n* 91 iio T4 > 9 art r i )W •1} >r„ «8 swelling, witn uxi-u palu» tin. wiuse til to a superficial cut, when the skin is distinctly pressed up by the suPP'ir“'' ’tion 0f fe 1 • ■ -hat extent union is effected, aud whether extraction is no certainty to what mCrfS SESSk case in which a fork basing been swallowed, cncitcd <*f tion, and by enlarging the opening of the absc^ wM removed Qc> GraBA*’8 « For the removal of poison from the stomach, Read s, or VV tns “> macli-pumps may be employed. Wf ss. (n) llAUUNOEU’s Neuea Magazin ITir Aerzte, (b) 'cidr. Zeitung, juh 1336,I>' vol. xiii. p. 567.—Host's Magann, vol. vni. pt. i. (c) baliburfc, aica.391 IN THE STOMACH AND INTESTINAL CANAL. 3*. [Barnes (a) quotes from Becker the case of a young peasant, -who on 29th May, ilv 535, whilst endeavouring to produce vomiting with the handle of a knife, let it slip sKom his fingers, and pass into his stomach. He was much frightened, but able to go ,V out his usual occupation. It was, however, determined to remove the knife by 4 oration, which was done on the 9th of July following, by a Surgeon and Lithotomist, it .med Shoval. “ A straight incision was made in the left hypochondrion, two fingers’- i eadth under the false ribs; first through the skin and cellular membrane, then i' rough the muscles and peritonaeum. The stomach subsided, and slipped from the . igers, which prevented it from being immediately seized; but it was at length caught Id of with a curved needle, and drawn out of the wound. A small incision was then tr ade into it upon the knife, which was then easily extracted. The stomach immediately | Uapsed. After the external wound had been properly cleansed, it was united with it f e sutures, and tepid balsam poured into the interstices. Tents impregnated with the ii.'ime balsam, and a cataplasm of bolar earth, the white of egg, and alum, were then ! plied.” (p. 324.) Two sutures were removed next day, on the following day two Bibre, but the fifth is not noticed. On the fourteenth day after the operation, the wound fed healed. Dr. Oliver (b) saw this knife at Konigsberg in 1685, and says it was : i and a half inches long. The patient completely recovered.] 1748. If the stomach contain nothing but the foreign body, it must be oderately filled before proceeding to the operation, with mucilaginous j; tid, for the purpose of bringing it near the wall of the belly (c). If ii-7 feeling, the position of the foreign body can be distinguished, the cut ! ould be made upon that part: but under other circumstances, upon the v ont wall of the stomach, an inch below the sword-like process of the ! 'east-bone, to an inch and a half above the navel, about three quarters an inch to the left of the white line, that the cut may be between r ie great and little curvature of the stomach. The wall of the belly is to 4! cut through with some careful strokes of the knife; and then the Jmach being laid bare, search is made for the foreign body, and a knife i .rust into the stomach at the proper place, and the wound enlarged with button-ended bistoury. The foreign body is then to be sought for with pair of forceps introduced upon the forefinger of the left hand, taken >ld of, and drawn out. The further treatment must be according to the les already laid down for wounds of the stomach {par. 541.) & Hevin also proposes piercing the front wall of the exposed stomach with a grooved -car, and to enlarge the wound upon it right or left. 1749. In enterotomy, the wall of the belly should be cut into where the reign body is distinguishable, though, if possible, on that part where the 'Mgastnc arteries can be avoided, search made with the finger for the sition of the foreign body, the intestine containing it drawn into the )und, and then sufficiently cut into for the removal of the foreign body. if treatment is the same as in wounds of the intestine {par 529 a the following.) 1 £Srthe,-inteft:ne naS been proposed for stricture and closure of the large ificial ’ unre '®vable ccBection of stools, for ileus and volvulus, in which cases, an (m(1L y be at the same tlme formed (par. 1616.) Although in such cases tliecause" aXf thfpef°fme,d yet on “count of the uncertainty ns, to a creit t seat of the disease, as well as on account of the symp- « practitioners arf rard^inSf * ** °perati°n’ iS S° 41 citcd- e> flEviVo1; p- 1408. 1700-01. 598. ’ Mem'de 1 Acad, (le Chirurg., vol. i. 598.'"""’ *“i,,era'ae ‘ Acad, de Chirurg., P,> D,issert- rtc mutuo Intesti- rus Dissertationum, vol. iii. See also, Leclekc D Histoire de la Medecine, p. i. 1. iv. ch. vi.—Hevin! Kecherches Ilistoriques sur la Gastrotomie, ou 1 ouverture du has-ventre dans les cas du volvulus ou de l'mtussuseeption d’un intestin; in Mem. e l Acad. de ( hirur^ , vol. iv.—Hebenstreit’s /usatze zu 13em.'s W. A. K., vol. ii. p. 359.— 1-ucMsius; in Hufeland's Journal, 1825, Feb., p. 42. * *[ 392 ] Y._OF FOREIGN BODIES IN THE RECTUM. Morand, Collection de plusieurs Observations singulieres sur des corps Grangers, 1< uns appliques aux parties naturelles, d’autres insinucs dans la vessie, et d’autres dans 1 fondement; in Mem. de l'Acad. de Chirurg., vol. iii. p. 606. 1 ^ ' * VON Walther, Bcobacbtung eines fremden Korpers von ungewohnlicher Grosse '» Mastdarme; in Journal fur Chirurgie und Augenheilkunde, vol. i. p. 4.35. 1750. Foreign bodies may be introduced through the anus into th rectum, either voluntarily or accidentally, in making a careful examinatio for certain things; or bodies which have been swallowed, after havin passed through the bowels, may remain a longer or shorter time in th rectum ; the passage of the swallowed body, however, in general causes n difficulty, as it is involved in a thick mass of stool. If the foreign body L the rectum excite symptoms, they depend on its peculiar form or it great size. [(1) Phillips (a) mentions the case of an old man brought into St. Mary-le-bon Infirmary, who was delirious, and complained of having a stick in his rectum, an being unable to sit up without pain; but as no other information could be obtaine about it, and no stick could be detected on examining the bowel, it was believed h was labouring under some delusion. A clyster was however given, but no stick wa passed. On the third day he died, and on examination, at six inches above the a mu was found the inferior extremity of a stick, which was about as thick as an ordinary indicator finger; it was covered with its bark, and carefully rounded at each end. It superior extremity had passed through the sigmoid flexure of the colon into the paw toneal cavity to the extent of four inches. The peritoneeum was highly inflamed tliroug. its whole extent, but there was very little thickening about the tissues in the immediat vicinity of the perforated point. There was no appearance of disease in the rectum' McLaughlan (b) relates the history of a Greenwich pensioner, aged forty-nine who having introduced an immense plug of wood fitted to the anus, for the purpose c stopping a diarrhoea, fell accidentally upon a stool, and forced it up into the gut. Eign days after he applied for assistance, having in the mean while suffered severely fror continual efforts to void his stools and urine, which last was done with great difficult}* The whole belly was considerably enlarged, and felt knotty from the stools so Ion., retained. The end of the forefinger could barely reach the plug on account of th inflamed and swollen state of the gut, which had begun to suppurate. The ordinary in struments were unavailing for its removal, and a peculiar pair of forceps were inven e for the purpose, and fitted upon it with a screw. The operation was very painru and required much force. In the course of a fortnight he completely recovered. A case is reported by Johnson (c) of a man who died immediately after Wan* admitted into King’s College Hospital; he had been labouring under obstruction at a bowels for five days, having eaten a large quantity of peas on the previous day; an during the last three days had also suffered from retention of urine. During * ’ time he had had severe pain in the belly, costiveness, and bilious vomiting; P’11^8 were given without relief; and when admitted he was much debilitated, Ins tonure. pale and shrunken; skin cold, and pulse feeble. On examination, the b 8 found distended, its base nearly at the brim of the pelvis, and its top reaching navel. The intestines were distended with air ; but the rectum contained UPW8. pint of gray peas, which had been swallowed dry and almost without mastication,, had not undergone any other alteration than becoming swollen; some were ^ stool in the colon, but the greater number were on the rectum, where! they fornu ■ mass, occupying almost the entire pelvic cavity, pushing up the bladder andprosta o compressing the urethra, so that there was considerable difficulty m passing t (2) Brodie (d) mentions the case of a person who had obstruction ot we_ caused by a piece of apple core which he had swallowed on the day 1 _ ^ Welbank tells me iliat on a similar occasion he pulled out a piece of rcr < < about an inch and a half long, part of a mutton chop which had beer swallowed.] _ ^ nhstTUC 1751. The symptoms occurring under such circumstances are, tion, or entire prevention of passing stools, very severe tenesmus, i V) I/ondon Med. Gaz., vol. xxix. p \b) Ibid , vol. xxx. p. 462. 1842. 846. 1842. Ibid., p. 605. Ibid., vol. xvii. p. 27. 1886.393 FOREIGN BODIES IN THE RECTUM. iifhmmation, and swelling of the inner wall of the rectum, extending to |e‘neighbouring parts and to the bowels, violent fever, tympanitis, and ~ like The "danger is always great, and the foreign body must be 'moved as quickly as possible. The removal is often exceedingly ■ dicult, on account of the seat and form of the foreign body, and the Uo-ree of inflammation and spasmodic contraction of the sphincter. itr Abscesses by the side of the rectum are occasionally formed by hard substances, Such have been swallowed, making way through its wall. Brodie (a) mentions an Stance in which a very large abscess was found; it was opened, and sticking across it His a lon»- fish-bone, which he extracted. Green tells me another instance of a ' iiale in^whom the abscess was so distended with pus, that when punctured it flew ■ross the room; from it part of the pelvis of a snipe was removed. JiBut still more serious consequences than abscess occasionally happen when a foreign fa dy remains fixed in the rectum ; it may cause complete closure of this gut, as in a iiise which occurred to Coulson. The woman, previously in good health, was thirty- tsiir years of age, and between the fourth and fifth month of her pregnancy, when she s.: is attacked with sickness, constipation, pain, and distension of the belly. These 1 mptoms increased in severity, faecal matter was rejected from the stomach, the belly Lcarne more distended, and no relief from the bowels could be obtained, injections srfiich were attempted to be thrown up the rectum, being immediately expelled. She lladually sunk, and on the ninth day from the commencement of the attack, died. On & emitnation, the colon was found exceedingly distended, especially its descending part, n d between three and four inches from the anus, a foreign body, believed to be a small > rtion of fish-bone, found adherent to the lining membrane of the rectum, and in this : nation pressed on by the gravid womb. Immediately below the bone, the gut was com- jtely closed to the extent of three inches. The preparation is in the College Museum.] I 1752. When the position of the body in the rectum has been ascertained •r the introduction of the left forefinger oiled, a pair of polypus or stone- -Srceps are to be introduced upon it, the foreign body seized and withdrawn. |4he removal may be always facilitated by injecting oil into the gut. In vio- iiint inflammation, blood-letting should be resorted to, and in spasmodic smtraction of the sphincter, suppositories, with the addition of extract of Stlladonna or hyoscyamus. In a case in which the size of the foreign body ias very great, a pair of forceps with a movable lock were employed, so hat each blade could be separately introduced (b). In case of a very tangible body, as glass and the like, in which danger was dreaded from j3 pieces, the hand of a child was employed for its removal (c). The »e of the various anal specula can render easy the grasping foreign . jxlies; but the force accompanying the use of these instruments, renders iiem dangerous, if there be much inflammation. In these cases it is ';2tter to cut through the sphincter ani, and thereby relieve the obstrue- >ion which prevents the removal of the foreign body. (DELrEcn.) Marchettis (d), in a case in which a swine’s tail, with the thick end upwards, «1 been introduced into the rectum, used a hollow tube, which protected the inner tembrane of the rectum from injury. i ?8TANCE (c) mentions the case of a man who fell on an inverted blacking pot, and id the whole of it forced up the rectum■ Attempts were made for an hour and a half dilate the sphincter, and remove it with forceps, but in vain. The small end of an iron ■istle was then introduced, till it touched the bottom, and being held there firmly, was ruck with a flat iron. At the second blow, the pot was broken into several pieces, T w<re rL‘rnoved piece by piece with the forceps, or with the fingers. Next morning aboured under severe intestinal inflammation, with incessant vomiting and excru- ' °VCT ^,e whole belly; and he died at night. The pot was two inches and ' e eiE *ths at the brim, an inch and a half at its base, and two and an eighth in depth. £ £?) fcondon Med. Gm, f yd ‘’jEssERsciiMUvr; in \c) Nolet* Vf - vol.vii. p. 27. 1836. W a ether, above cited, m Mora no, above cited. (rQ In Morand. (c) London Medical Gazette, 1820. vol. iv. p. 18.FOREIGN BODIES 394 Lawrence had a case in which a man had broken the neck of a wine-bottle ir his rectum; he gradually dilated the sphincter, introduced his whole hand, and 1 moved it.] VI.—OF FOREIGN BODIES IN THE LARYNX AND WINDPIPE. Hevin, Precis d’Observations sur les Corps Strangers arrete's dans l’CEsophage, et da la Trachee-artere, etc.; in Mem. de l’Acad. de Chir., vol. i. p. 565. Louis, Me'moires sur la Bronchotomie—Second Mc'moire sur la Bronchotomie, oil 1’ (. traite de Corps etrangers dans la Trache'e-artere; in Me'm. de l’Acad. de Chir., vol. i p. 455. De la Martini£re, Observations sur un Corps etranger qui penjoit la Trachee-arter in Mem. de l’Acad. de Chir., vol. v. p. 521 Lescure, Sur une portion d’Amande de noyau d’abricot, dans la Trachee-artere; : same, p. 524. Suite d’Observations sur les Corps etrangers dans la Trachee-artere; in same, p. 52 i , Porter, Will. Henry, Observations on the Surgical Pathology of the Larynx ai Trachea, &c. Dublin, 1826. 8vo. Stokes, William, M.D. A Treatise on the Diagnosis and Treatment of Diseases 4 the Chest. Dublin, 1827. 8vo. Wendt, Historia Tracheotomiae. Vratislav., 1774. Ficker, De Tracheotomia et Laryngotomia. Erfurt, 1792. Desault, GEuvres Chirurgicales, par Bichat, vol. ii. p. 255. Klein ; in Chirurgisch. Bemerkung. Stuttg., 1801 ; in von Siebold’s Chiron., vol. i j|f, p. 649 ; in von Graefe und von Walther's Journal, vol. i. p. 441; vol. vi. p. 225. Michaelis; in Hufeland’s Journal, vol. ix. pt. ii.; vol. xi. pt. iii. Pelletan, Me'moire sur la Bronchotomie ; in Clin. Chir., vol. i. p. 1. Lawrence, Will, On some Affections of the Larynx, which require the operation « W Bronchotomie; in Med.-Chir. Trans., vol vi.. p. 221. 1753. Foreign bodies usually get into the windpipe, when during the ac li of swallowing, the epiglottis is raised by speaking, laughing, and the like ‘ or when they are thrown into the mouth. The symptoms produced depem j«s on the obstructed passage of the air, and the irritation of the lining mem a brane of the windpipe. Immediately there occurs a severe convulsiv h cough, with danger of choking, with a whistling and rustling in the throat d which sometimes relaxes for a space ; the patient points to the seat of pah I with his finger, has more or less painful effort in swallowing and in breath n ing ; his voice is altered and becomes hoarse, or is completely lost; by th jjj obstructed return of the blood from his head, the face at last becomes puff | and bluish, the eyes start out, the veins of the neck are swollen, and abovi jj the collar-bones there appears an emphysematous swelling. These symjH « toms sometimes continue with the same violence, sometimes cease, boil recur at irregular periods ; occasionally only some of them diminish, const- (j derable pain, oppression, and difficulty of breathing remain. The conse quences specially to be feared from foreign bodies in the windpipe are I suffocation, if the entrance of the air be completely prevented; empty'1 j sema of the lungs if the position of the body prevent the escape of the air inflammation of the windpipe and lungs with their outlets, and apoplex) -j from the collection of blood in the brain. [Porter (a) well observes :—“ This accident never happens at the time it is generally j considered as most likely to occur, namely, in the act of swallowing. When a perso jg is engaged in the performance of this function the root of the tongue is depressed, wm I (a) Above cited.IN THE LARYNX AND WINDPIPE. 395 Ie larunv is elevated; the epiglottis is thus mechanically thrown as a bridge across the ■runx and so effectually closes it that the smallest morsel, or even a drop of water, can ' r id no’ admission. * * * But it is different when a man attempts to draw a full inspira- L whilst any foreign body is within reach of the current of air about to pass into the Rn»s At this time the epiglottis is raised, the rima glottidis is distended, and every- siiins' appears to favour the entrance of the air, and, of course, of whatever it bears Don| with it. Thus, a person holding a sup of wine in his mouth to enjoy the flavour, 06 cautiously attempts to breathe, a drop of the fluid enters the larynx, it produces great Ofritatiou and the spasmodic cough that ensues throws it out with great violence, per- Bms even through the nostrils.” (pp. 184, 185.") _ ...... j I One of the most remarkable instances of a foreign body getting into the windpipe Ji'ithout passing through the rima glottidis is mentioned by De la Martinique (a). A is lild, nine or ten years of age, amusing himself with cracking a small whip, was sud- * inly seized with extreme difficulty of breathing, and soon exhibited all the symptoms iq:' approaching suffocation. He complained, by gesture, of some impediment in the ,i achea. The Surgeons who saw him, aware that he had never been left alone, and that f»! 3 could not have put anything into his mouth, did not suspect the existence of a foreign nj^xly impeding respiration.” He was bled, the throat examined, and an oesophageal [! lugie passed, without making any discovery. The symptoms became more urgent, and ‘ ie la Martini ere saw him an hour after. “ On examining the neck externally, I ' .und,” says he, “ a small red spot on its fore part, like the middle of a flea-bite, iinme- ately below the cricoid cartilage, and beneath it was felt deeply a little circumscribed so inglion as large as a lentil, corresponding to the red spot, and of unnatural bright- I] ass; the sensation could not have been more distinct through the thickness of the parts. :> at once determined to cut through the skin and fat upon this spot. The finger having 5i ;en introduced into the wound, and touching the tubercle, which was close to the wind- i pe, I deepened it with a second stroke of the knife, and laid bare the cartilaginous i- ngs of that tube. I felt with my nail an irregularity, projecting at least a line above t s convexity, and endeavoured in vain to seize it with the dressing forceps. Luckily I r ad with me a pair of hair-nippers, and with these caught hold of the body, which I | rew out, and, to my great surprise, found it to be a large copper pin without a head, jgl lout an inch and a quarter long, which had pierced through the windpipe from left i i right.” The child got well in a few days.] 1754. The difference of the symptoms depends on the particular seat, i irm, and condition of the foreign body. If situated in the rima glottidis, !i nd completely closing it, the patient is suffocated, if not quickly relieved, nr the foreign body do not change its place by the violent inspiration and Expiration, which, however, is rarely the case, on account of the spasmodic ; ontraction of the rima. If the rima be not completely closed by the foreign jody, violent convulsive cough comes on, and the patient points to the Nieat of the body with his finger. A foreign body, if not of large size, lay remain lying in either of the laryngeal ventricles. Its symptoms are it first less severe, but the continued residence of the foreign body will, fi the end, be fatal (1). If it be loose in the windpipe, it moves up and town with every inspiration and expiration ; symptoms come on at inter- nals; the pain is severe; changes its place; the cough is frequent and Convulsive, so that, in very rare cases, the foreign body is coughed out; : ranger of suffocation occurs if it be forced up against the rima glottidis. groreign bodies rarely drop into either bronchus (2). Pointed rough mdies cause violent symptoms; the mucous membrane of the windpipe inflames, swells, and the passage narrows where the foreign body is fixed, f Lhesame happens with those bodies which swell with moisture. In rare ases the foreign body, after remaining a long while in the air passages, nd producing symptoms of phthisis, is thrown out, and the case terminates satisfactorily (3). • 1 ^ foreign body, to be lodged in the ventricles of the larynx, must be extremely , onali; and I apprehend such as are generally described as so situated are not so, but only (a) Mem. de l’Aoad., above cited.396 FOREIGN BODIES in the body of the larynx, of which there are two examples in the Museum of St. Thomas’ > Hospital. In one a piece of mussel-shell lies lengthways in the leftside of the larynx, wit} ,v< its upper end jammed into the base of the epiglottis. I cannot get more information of i $» thau that the child lived a fortnight after the accident. The other, a case related h> Bollock (a), was a girl of six years, who swallowed a pebble. “ She was seized wit) l a most violent convulsive cough, so that she became black in the face and was nearh lit • suffocated; the paroxysm continued for half an hour and then subsided. The throa t was examined, and an oesophageal probang introduced, but without, however, discoverin) -V any extraneous body. The three or four following days the child merely complaint- 4>| of a sense of soreness in the throat with nausea, which was accompanied by occasiona slight paroxysms of cough with a copious mucous expectoration ; she was also hoars*- u but had no pain or difficulty in deglutition. Aperients and an emetic were prescribed- S > she was not benefited, and, as she still persisted that the stone remained in the throat- ill was again, on the fifth day, very carefully examined, yet there did not appear to be any: <5 evidence of its existence either in the oesophagus or trachea.” As she had not hat ? hooping cough and was constantly playing with children who were labouring unde; > that disease, it “ appeared to warrant the conclusion that no foreign body had passer ij either into the oesophagus or trachea, and that the cough was among the first symptom: jn of a severe form of pertussis. At the end of the fifth day she had marked symptoms o ns inflammation of the mucous membrane of the bronchi, namely, cough, generally occur 0 ring in paroxysms six or seven times a day, attended with a kind of whooping inspire WJ tion and a copious expectoration of tenacious mucus; the hoarseness was likewisi i* increased, while over the trachea and upper part of the chest there was a loud inucou: tfc rattle, which was in part sonorous.” Leeches, and calomel, and antimony were uset \ for some days, and in a month from her first attack she was stated to be “ quite well,' f having regained her flesh and healthy appearance. A fortnight after this, however * she was attacked with symptoms of pneumonia,” and she died in twelve days, “ eigb weeks from the supposed accident; but from the time she was reported quite well to thi t day of her death there was no return of the convulsive cough nor any uneasiness alxm- in the throat. On the day-of her death, however, she again said she could still feel tb< r stone, and in the same place as at first. Examination.—On laying open the larytutjU and trachea a quartz pebble was exposed, lying partly in the cricoid cartilage and partly Ii in the trachea, of the size of a horse bean, of irregular figure and smooth surface; r 5 was retained in its situation by a layer of apparently organized lymph of very con- v siderable thickness. On removing the stone the mucous membrane was m a state o. i ulceration (and the front of the thyroid and cricoid cartilages bare.—J. r. s.) Thaj calibre of the tube was so nearly obstructed by the presence of the stone and lymph a< to render it difficult to pass an ordinary-sized probe downwards. The whole of tht I mucous membrane of the trachea was thickened and its vessels congested. About f < pint of turbid fluid was in the right pleura, containing flakes of adventitious membrane*. ■ with which the pleura pulmonalis of that side was also covered. Nearly the whole ngm and the lower part of the left lung were in the several degrees of hepatization and pura- . lent infiltration, (p. 952.j . , . , , . . <■ ,v,f (2) When the weight of the foreign body lias carried it low down into one ot m bronchi, most commonly the right on account of its larger size, as first noticed by v it may block up the passage so completely that no air, or but little, can pass into lung below it, and consequently it remains fixed by its own gravity-, causing pain in ■ chest opposite the part where it is lodged, which is increased on deep inspiration, is accompanied with “a catching.” Violent cough and a disposition to vomit, or vomiting, occur immediately after the accident, but after a time subside, and an ocor sional dry cough comes on at irregular periods, and in the intervals the patient tolerably well and able to follow his ordinary occupation, or the symptoms ma.v.D*~"?r more urgent, may be accompanied with repeated attacks of/iff mo/rtyst*'and termin '- vlithisis, even although the foreign body have been coughed up after having been re weeks or months. Some remarkable cases of this kind will be presently refer , j.v_ (3) The time which a foreign body, after the first severe symptoms have Pas-'. , may remain lodged in the air passages varies very considerably. The loupes pe ^ which I am aware is that of the female mentioned by Sue (b), who when n M year, had the rump-bone of a pigeon slip into her windpipe; she betame s j^. attacks of hemoptysis and other symptoms of pulmonary disease, but withou ^ till her twenty-fourth year, when she began to decline rapidly. Two yea- * -lh threw up the bone in a violent fit of coughing; but she died eighteen month Qi (a) London Medical Gazette, vol. xviii. 1836. Mem. dc 1’Acad, de Chirurglc, vol. v- P >.533.IN THE LARYNX AND WINDPIPE. 397 -ofuse purulent expectoration. Dufuytren (a) gives an account of a man who lived K years after a small coin had got into his air-tube, and on examination it was found fin bedded in a tubercular cavity in the lung; Louis (6) also relates another case, which after swallowing a louis-d’or, a man lived six years and a-half, and then died iith his right lung completely destroyed by suppuration. My friend Sutton, of Green- Jlteh has mentioned to me a case of hcemoptysis, which he attended many yearssince. The an had frequent attacks for more than a twelvemonth, from each of which, however, e rapidly recovered Upon the last occasion, he was summoned suddenly to see _.e man; who was said to be in a dying state. On his arrival he found the patient had yud a very severe attack of dyspnoea, and threatening suffocation, from which, however, , had been immediately relieved on rejecting from his windpipe a common lathe nail, uch corroded. The man was a plasterer by trade, and now remembered that some time ; fore first requiring Sutton’s assistance, he had swallowed a nail whilst lathing a i iiling, but had thought no more about it till it was thrown up. He died some years Iter of diseased lungs. Dr. Paris (c) relates the case of a girl twelve years old, who •. staving put a small cowrie shell in her mouth, was seized with a violent choking fit, in Sjnsequence 0f its having been supposed to have gone the wrong way in the act of swal- ' wing it. The spasmodic paroxysm was described as most alarming, and continued for 3 fveral seconds, which induced her father to thrust his finger with considerable force wn her throat, which afforded immediate relief, and therefore convinced him that he Mid thrust the foreign body into the oesophagus, and that it had passed into the stomach. * * In the course of four or five days a slight cough came on, hut it was not cha- Hcterized by any symptom which would lead to the suspicion of it having been pro- ■ ' iked by the presence of any foreign body in the air passages, and this opinion was con- ■ 'ined by its speedily yielding to the ordinary treatment.” Between three weeks and a A:ionth after she had “ a return of the cough much more violent than usual, and accom- imied with slight hcemoptysis. This, however, again subsided, and she remained for ; {any months in perfecthealth ; her breathing was never disturbed, she indulged in her - sual active habits and daily exercise, and declared that she was perfectly well. * * * 1 bout twelve months after, she had danced at a ball during the whole evening, and at :»; conclusion, in the act of moving briskly, she was suddenly attacked by a violent spas- »odic cough, which threatened suffocation, when by a sudden and convulsive expiration, a ibstance was ejected from her mouth with such force as to be carried to a considerable dis- nce. This proved to be the remnant of the shell, the animal principle of which had dis- npeared, and its earthy matter alone remained.” (pp. 116, 17.) In the younger Travers’s ’se(d), a girl of six years, who was suddenly thrown back whilst eating cherries, “ was (: ^mediately seized with a violent fit of choking and every symptom of impending suffo- i.tion. This condition lasted an hour, and then she fell asleep.” On the next day she ,'id some spasmodic pain in the chest, and on the following “ morning the breathing •as very difficult, and other symptoms of inflammation present,” which were relieved y blood-letting, a calomel and jalap purge, and calomel and opium. On the afternoon ,*k.e f°urth day “ she had a violent convulsive seizure, with cough, small quick pulse, livid surface, suffused eye, and every sign of threatened suffocation. It was stated in uidence of the violence of the spasm, that the stools and urine ‘ flew’ from the child iring these attacks.” She grasped and pulled her throat in a peculiar manner, “ ery- : g in a half whisper ‘ take it out! take it away !’ The spasm subsided after two hours’ ’ntmuauce,” and a few hours after she was so tranquil as to lead to the belief “ that no tone could have passed into the trachea.” In the middle of the following day the fit Mcurred, with “ violent jactitation and abundant flow of frothy mucus from the mouth. hen it,had subsided, the probang was introduced, and the child swallowed with greater kjcuity.” On the seventh day there came on a similar attack ; on the thirteenth, and 190m that time daily, till the nineteenth day, when Travers saw her, and she had then requent paroxysms of croupy cough, attended by great restlessness and the peculiar jasping of the throat” Under these circumstances, he performed tracheotomy ; but - iso °ne T38 n0t tllrown out! breathing, however, became tranquil, and the cougli ■ _Ce?e<1’ returned, however, on the twenty-sixth day, but less severely. About iliuvWla"er’ the woun(l> which had been tented healed, and soon after “ the child Ition v lucess.ant'y> had nightsweats, with loss of strength and appetite.” In thiscon- ione to f c5lntln')e<l Ml the ninety-sixth day after the accident, when she threw out “ the ^Dector* t |fcr W . a table-spoonful of pus, during a violent paroxysm of cough ; having ,v. rof1 C<1 ^|US ln SInah quantities for many days previous. From this time the cough urned, and the general health was soon re-established.” (p. 108-12.) ’(*;*MlmnafraAe9’iTOi1' p- 58'*- (<-') Med.-Cliir. Trans., vol. xxiii. 1840. U ) Mem. de 1 Acad, de Chir., vol. v. p. 529. \d) Ibid.398 LARYNGOTOMY. 1755. As foreign bodies in the oesophagus produce the same symptonu h as those in the windpipe, it is always necessary, by examination of the throat, by the introduction of a sound, with a piece of sponge upon its ,* end, to be sure of the oesophagus (1). Foreign bodies are only in very rare instances, thrown out by violent 6 coughing : on this account a severe emetic or artificially excited sneezing increase the danger (2). The only remedy for the certain removal of the foreign body is opening f the windpipe, (Broncliotomia, Tracheotomia,) or opening the larynx (Laryngtomia.) This operation must be undertaken as quickly as pos- ■ sible, because if put off, such symptoms as violent inflammation of the ‘ lungs and windpipe, emphysema of the lungs and the like arise, which even after the removal of the body may cause death. The operation is in all cases required, where suffocation presses, or an aspliictic condition has set in ; further, if dangerous symptoms occur from time to time, and the ■ 1. foreign body be observed rolling up and down in the windpipe ; or if fixed t pain °point out its exact seat. But if the patient be free from all these t$ symptoms, and the seat of the foreign body cannot be discovered, we must . i wait till there are symptoms of change in its situation, and a possibility ol t its removal. [(1) In reference to this subject Stokes (a) mentions one instance in which a piece ol ; money lodging in the oesophagus produced croupy breathing and laryngeal symptoms. ,!>j And in his Lectures he used to speak of another case in which such symptoms were pro- \, duced by a foreign body (a plum-stone) in the oesophagus, that his first impulse was to » - perform tracheotomy with his penknife. An oesophageal bougie was, however, intro- p duced, and the substance having been pushed into the stomach, the symptoms ceased,.,-r and a day or two after the plum-stone, with which the child had been known to he play-. f i- ing previous to the accident, was voided by stool (6). (2) Occasionally it may happen that although violent fits of coughing having failed ■- to expel the foreign body from the windpipe, yet by some accidental change in the : ? patient’s position, the foreign body is removed from its lodging place, and is then thrown up with little effort. Such seems to me the explanation of Cock s case (e) ot | a sixpence slipping down the throat, and at first lodging in the tow; “ violent. J coughing, wih the most distressing sense of suffocation, immediately took place, and | during the paroxysm he threw up a quantity of blood. On his admission he was still struggling for breath, coughing incessantly, and suffering great pain and irritation which he referred to the larynx, where the com appeared to have lodged. bhortivug after “ the sixpence had left the larynx, and descended into the trachea; its change oi position being immediately followed by an abatement of the previous urgent symptoms.! t| He still coughed almost incessantly, stated that he could feel the sixpence movingnp ... and down the windpipe, and complained of pain and soreness in the chestinthesw on m the right bronchus, and also just below the larynx." Towards the end of the sunc^ evening the symptoms subsided, and he went to sleep. On the following day he much the same state, and “as long as he remained calm and quiet, he nothing but a feeling of general soreness along the larynx and windpipe. V he_ sw I evening the sixpence was thrown out without surgical aid. “ I was asleep, saia y patient, “and dreamed I was drinking a pot of porter, and the attempt to swaim^ ! made me cough. I awoke, and found the sixpence in my mouth. O^KOhs.'r ^- _ . , ° .i n i r.oi nioroct thnt. the iorng11 . I awoiiti, UI1U 1UUUU LHC Ill 111J mvuvu. £ “It is perhaps worthy of remark, and not destitute of practical interest, thatu>ew'6 bodv, which had retained its position during the most violent expiratory efforts, si ^ - - * ,1 n TxoT’iori wiion flip mu snips nf flip nlnttis were nrobaoly in a s . II body, which nau reidincu. u&pwsiuwu t • • crate ot length be ejected, at a period when the muscles of the glottis were probably m ® ^ quietude, and being taken unawares, allowed its expulsion, under a gentle act oi e ing.” (pp- 554, 55.)] _ . . 1756. Opening the larynx or windpipe is also required to assi. entrance of the air into the lungs, when it is obstructed under any o circumstances, and suffocation is dreaded; in great swelling (&_) Wells ; in Diet, of Pract. Surgery, vol. i. p. 516. (a") Above cited, p. 265. . ... «f,ries, 1845- W ■ (c) Medical Gazette, vol. i. New Senes,399 LARYNGOTOMY. H*Teneration of the structures about the throat; in diseased changes of the A iglottis ; in great swelling of the tongue, if the danger cannot be relieved i bleeding, scarification, and the like; in fracture of the thyroid carti- 1 je, if the dislocated pieces cannot be otherwise brought into place; in B lamination of the epiglottis (Angina larynged) ; when foreign bodies t j in the oesophagus, and cause suffocation ; in compression of the wind- je by tumours; in gun-shot wounds of the throat, which, on account of 2 great swelling, are attended with danger and suffocation; in drunken suffocated persons ; in croup, if the membrane be loose and cannot be jghed up. (According to Desault (a), in the greater number of these cases in which it is only ftessary to assist the entrance of the air, the introduction of an elastic tube through i nostril renders the operation superfluous. No other person, however, but Desault ds this notion. Samuel Cooper (b) objects to it in drunkards and suffocated persons, M l considers opening the windpipe to inflate the lungs, most efficient. However, the iefit of cutting into the windpipe, undertaken in this spirit, is not supported by precise p soning. >r n Angina laryngea, which is characterized by difficult breathing, with pressing suffo- >v ion, very hoarse and only whispering voice, and frequently accompanied with pain in St asophagus and difficulty in swallowing, without apparent swelling and redness of the h oat, the operation must not be long delayed, if relief be not soon afforded by general a l local blood-letting, blisterings, and the like (c). In Angina membranacea, >) yngotomy and tracheotomy are generally useless, because the mass blocking up the , -tube, is not merely in the larynx, but extends through the whole windpipe and even ) the bronchi (d). In more modern times, however, many cases have been published fj vhich this operation has been successful. * VEVEKMANN (e) has collected all the cases of laryngitis and trachceitis, in which f ’heotomy has been performed; and the result is that out of one hundred and forty ■■ twenty-eight have.been cured, and one hundred and twelve died. ° Ieetonneau ( f) considers that tracheotomy can only terminate favourably, if the I “ng be made moderately large between the thyroid gland and the breast-bone, and v free entrance and escape of the air maintained by a sufficiently large and wide canula. ® the same time he introduces calomel dry, or moistened with water, through the k ind into the windpipe. In one case he succeeded. * -"ROTSseau (g) also recommends the introduction of a thick catheter, and scraping out 0 windpipe with a probang, and dropping in a watery solution of nitrate of silver four ins to a dram of water. Gerdy (A) also advises the introduction of a weak solution ! lunar caustic. : Kirby (i) is decidedly opposed to bronchotomy for croup ; he says “ I have per- iled the operation myself on the child, and have seen it frequently done by others in no one case has the life of the patient been saved.” (p. 63.)] J757. The proceedings vary in laryngotomy and tracheotomy, in iierence to the special object desired, according as the entrance of j air is to be assisted, or a foreign body removed. 1758. In laryngotomy, after placing the patient’s head in such a 'ition as that his uneasiness shall be least, and the front of the neck J accessible, the skin is to be moderately stretched on both sides £ ;e fi"gers of th.e Ieft, hand> and the larynx at the same time fixed ; * -ut is then made lengthways, about an inch in length, the middle ) Above cited. ) Bictionarv of Practical Surgery, p. 1202 Farh* ; in Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. iii. p. 84. MAs'Tm’f-’ Ibld- ">1. iv. P- 29.—Wilson, u *> vo1- v. p. 150.—Arnold ; Ibid., • p.dl—Hai.i., Marshali,; Ibid., vol. x. * «V^RTI,l;Abid-’ vo1' xi'P- H4.-Wk.de- 1 n»i:volrx°Np l07.>:FK Und V°N WALT"f;,1’s ^Sacbsr, vol. ii. p. 277 j the best writer on ) (v.’I'r’ v,e‘l- Centralzeitung, 1830, July.— ition ifr ’ V',’ °n thc Causes of the Fatal Tcr- *UOn of cerU>n cases of lironchotomy; in Edinb.Med.andSnrg. Journal, vol. xxix. p. 75, 184‘>J^n 0FebHEL 5 BulIetin de Therapeutie, f f) 1 Ics Inflammations speciales du Tissu mu- queux eten particulier de la Diptherite,ou inflam- mation pelhculaire, connue sur le nom de Croup, d Angine maligne,d’Anginegangreneuse, p. 21',— dflo. Pans, 1826. 8vo. ,, Ci|) Journal des Connaissances Med.-Chirurg 18,14. June. Archives generates de Medecine, vol. v. p. ’' /, 1834.—Stiliuno ; in Berlin Med. Central- zeitung, 1835, May 9. (i) Observations, cited at the head of article.LARYNGOTOMY. 400 of which corresponds to the crico-thyroid ligament. A second cut divi( | the cellular tissue between the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscl and lays bare the crico-thyroid ligament ; the bleeding must be stanch with a sponge dipped in cold water. The lurynx is then to be fixed wi a finger on each side, and the forefinger of the same hand placed on t upper third of the ligament; after which a lancet is thrust in, and! wound of sufficient extent made, which is to be kept open by inserting [ between the angle of the skin and of the muscular wound, and the win covered with gauze, and the patient allowed to bend his head towards * chest. This method appears preferable to using the tracheotome and introducing a tube i the aperture made in the crico-thyroid ligament, for the tube always excites inc venient, and frequently unbearable irritation, is frequently stopped up, and eanv I be properly fastened. The cases in which cutting into the windpipe is perforn J" are urgent, and the tracheotome cannot be sufficiently commanded. If the opening i:, the crico-thyroid ligament be insufficient, the cut must be lengthened through the cric cartilage. For the purpose of effecting expectoration, if much tough mucus coll the wound must occasionally be held with the fingers, and the patient allowed to cou 4 If a canula be used, it should always be sufficiently large. For the purpose of avoiding an often not inconsiderable arterial branch upon crico-thyroid membrane, we must feel with the finger if the membrane be quite ba and when it is exposed, we must endeavour to avoid it, for which purpose the membrt1 is to be divided transversely at the upper edge of the cricoid cartilage. [Some persons are in the habit of introducing a tube into the larynx after hav I opened it. This as a general rule is quite unnecessary, as if there be any fear of , wound closing before the air can recover its usual course through the rima glottidis is better to cut out a piece of either the laryngeal or tracheal cartilage, as may >1 according to Lawrence’s recommendation. And it is also improper, as a opening will be formed, which on the subsequent removal of the canula, may contracl J as to require a second operation, and often cannot be done without. If, however, st * practice be adopted, it will be necessary that the instrument should be taken out fr time to time to ascertain that it has not been corroded; for if not, it may break, and I part within drop down the windpipe, whilst that without falls from the wound, with A notice. A case of this kind was admitted into St. Thomas’s Hospital in DeceniL I 1844; a tube had been introduced about two and a half years previously, and on morning of his admission whilst walking along the street, it slipped out broken, symptoms of consequence, however, appeared till towards evening, when the breath: | became difficult, and attended with a whistling noise; the veins of his head and f. p distended, and the surface covered with cold perspiration. My colleague and assists the younger Travers, therefore, thought it necessary to pare the edges of the openi and dilate it upwards and downwards upon a director. Some blood running into $ windpipe caused violent expirations, and in one of them two fragments, which font the remainder of the canula, were expelled, surrounded with a clot of blood, and ^ relief was immediate. Another canula was introduced. The patient did well; and t broken corroded instrument is in St. Thomas’s Museum. Occasionally it happens that after a severe cut throat, the aperture remains, from so ■ cause or other, fistulous; and as the scar contracts, the passage for the air is so narro* , as to cause great difficulty of breathing, and require surgical aid. I had a case of «| kind some years ago, in a Hindoo woman, who, in her voyage to this country, f | attempted suicide, and nearly cut through the larynx, between the thyroid and cnc' j cartilages. She had been very refractory, and the skin had turned over the lower « i of the wound, and become connected willi the back of the organ, so as materia to diminish the passage, and cause her breathing to be very laborious, and with a *° : hiss. As from the account given, these symptoms were daily becoming worse, I j through the front of the cricoid cartilage vertically, and inserted a short but pretty * tube, through which she breathed freely and did well, leaving the house some time a to return home.—J. F. S.] 1759. If laryngotomy be undertaken for the removal of a foreign hot the crico-thyroid ligament is, after the bleeding has been stanched, to be c through its whole length, from the thyroid to the cricoid cartilage; ant this be insufficient to allow the foreign body to be removed or withdrawTRACHEOTOMY. 401 trough it, a director somewhat curved is to be introduced, by means of iieh a button-ended bistoury is passed in, and the thyroid cartilage suffi- >ntly divided upwards in its centre, or the cricoid cartilage, and the upper rt of the air-tube so far cleft as the removal of the foreign body may ;m to require. 1760. After the opening is made, if the edges of the wound be gently awn apart with blunt hooks by the assistants, the foreign body usually pears and is thrown out by coughing; but if this do not happen, its sition must be sought with due care, and it must be removed with aight or curved forceps. The treatment, after removal of the foreign dy, must be precisely similar to that already laid down for longitudinal unds of the windpipe, {par. 467.) 1761. In tracheotomy, where the entrance of the air merely is to be isted, a cut should be made through the skin and muscle on the mesial e of the windpipe, beginning below the cricoid cartilage and continued wn to the edge of the breast-bone. The edges of the wound are to be d asunder with blunt hooks, the blood sopped up with a moist sponge, 'cellular tissue and vascular net upon the third and fourth cartilaginous gs divided, and thus the windpipe laid bare. Bleeding is stanched by d water, or, where possible, by tying the vessels ; the lobes of the thy- d gland, which are a little in the way, are to be turned aside, and two Idiree rings of the windpipe divided vertically. The further treatment s;fhe same as after opening the larynx. |'he same reasons against the use of the tracheotome and the introduction of a tube, |ch have been already given (par. 1758) also apply here. Lawrence (a) advises, if f opening the windpipe, the introduction of the tube cannot be effected, to cut off fan inch through the cartilage, and to remove a small slip from the edges of the ind, so that the opening may continue to gape. 762. If tracheotomy be performed for the removal of a foreign body, air-tube must be exposed and cut into in the way just described, only . size °f the cut must be proportioned to that of the body to be removed. Iqi removal itself must be managed as in laryngotomy. hen the foreign body is lodged in the bronchus its removal should be first attempted eversing the patient’s natural position, and placing him upright, or nearly so, with aead downwards, and then striking his back or shaking the body smartly, by which »ay be hoped the foreign substance will move from its situation, and, dropping ,ugh the windpipe, be ejected at the rima glottidis. Of the two very interesting cases ■ mch this practice was successfully adopted, Brodie’s patient (J>) had first attempted i the sixteenth day after the accident, by “ placing himself in the prone position, with urn resting on a chair, and his head and neck inclined downwards, and having o. _ so, he immediately had a distinct perception of a loose body slipping forward along A V1° ?nt c°nv,ulsive cough ensued. On resuming the erect posture hf Isensatl°n °f a loose body moving in the trachea, but in an opposite diree- Ipletdv’- S tH? Ch,eSt i The experi“ent was reP^ed six days after, move 6 hineoin tbl place.<*’ m tbe prone position, on a platform, made to be movable L£f Tho i? m S° tha\°nre Cnd of 11 beinS elevated, the other was equally ?( w.„„ | 1 hcshoulders and body having been fixed by means of a broad strap the »a*™.,4th. 1 It; and on tbTw ^ • 7C’ 1 , Process was twice repeated with no better ‘ding WAS so alarms occasion the cough was so distressing, and the appearance of dthLx' r ^ boCame CVldent 11 would be ^Prudent to proceed further was therefore dcmrm-S0Te pr,ecau.tlon w?re used t0 render it more safe.” Tracheo- ore determined on two days after, and “ in proposing this,” says Brodie, ■Hi A (fc) Above cited. '< Above cited, p. 219. OL. H, 2 D402 TRACHEOTOMY. « we had a twofold object; the one, that if the coin were lodged in any part from wine it might he safely extracted by the forceps, this method might be had recourse to; an the other that if relief could not be obtained in this manner, the artificial openin mifflit answer the purpose of a safety valve, and enable us to repeat the experiment ( inverting the body on the movable platform without the risk of causing suffocation The operation “ being completed, some attempts were made to reach the coin with tl forceps introduced through the opening The contact of the ms runmnt with the i. tern il surface of the trachea, however, induced on every occasion the most violent an S ToSing The coin was not seized, nor even felt.” The attempt was thereto, given im for the time, and repeated five days after with no better success He was le auiet for ten days to recover from the exhaustion he suffered, and the probe was pass, occasionally1 intothe wound to keep it open. At the end of this period, on tl.e third* dav after the accident, “ the patient having been placed on the platform, andbroiig) into the same position as formerly, the back was struck with the hand ; two or thn efforts to cough followed, and presently he felt the coin quit the bronchus,^firkin almost immediately afterwards against the incisor teeth of the upper jaw, and the: dropping1out of the mouth. A small quantity of blood drawn into tin trachea fro: the granulations of the external wound, being ejected at the same time. No spasm too place in the muscles of the glottis, nor was there any of that ?" Tl Which had caused uo small degree of alarm on the former occasion, (p. 288-91.) II case did well. Macrae (a) did not make any opening into the air-tube of his patier but on the third day after the mishap, had him “ strapped securely to a common char tot he might be eJily suspended from the rafters of the roof, with his head downwar in order“hat his chest might be conveniently shaken by a rapid succession of suddc smart ierks and that the weight of the bullet might favour its escape from its se in the lungs. He was kept depending as long as he could endure such an uncoil able position, and then placed in the horizontal posture for a few minutes to rest. W h Sfiy^uted he was hung up again. Upon being described the pain in his breast as having moved^ nearer to the top of ^ during the third suspension he joyfully exclaimed, thamg^a . t g • C it has°come in the Gaelic language,) immediately after a smart shaking and a few t» S4 5 £» 0nifhtHs1mode(Pof treatment be insufficient to dislodge the foreign ^ “ bronchus, it will be necessary to attempt its removal In’L^ ing it out with forceps. This operation was first performed, and suc^ttolyj^ ^ in 1833 (h), on a female of thirty-eight years, who r,ot . p .1 urine a entangled in the glottis, whilst eating some hashed meat By in of threatened suffocation, she succeeded in dislodging it, hut it passedto> the trachea,” * * * and lodged permanently under the g ^er^O C ;on, and tl tion. An attack of bronchitis supervened, followed by <»u|h ^d expe rec0TCre inflammatory attack was repeated several times; fromoneiiftees ‘ J of peculi; * * * The inspiration was somewhat noisy, and there was some g , sonorous rale perceived on applying the ear to the chest at the the foreign body had become fixed. The operation was performed, one Pa ^ opening laterally were introduced; a hard substance^could be patient was re-assured. and allowed to recover the elfects of th * P ‘ l{^, to seize it. Another instrument with the blades differently arrange’ ‘ \;aU,lv down the tube, at least three or three and a half inches, and the bon c of t) and extracted. * * * The result of the case was most satisfactory. l | lsoSU forceps was seven inches, (pp. 415, 16.) The se“nd °Pe[atl0n ^f a bov of df cessfullv by Dickin, of Middleton, near Manchester, in 183- ( )> . during*• years, whoVving “found a bell button, which lie placed in ,, w f ^ . n; a noccnrl Knnlrwnrds into the windmDe. He instantly 1 years, who having “found a bell button, wlncn ne piaceu m ^ do%rn. to/ ■ict of jumping, it passed backwards into the windpipe. He 11 - • distant niak« appearance in a state of suffocation, and was taken home afew yanlsdisWM, ^ ?he most violent efforts to respire; after which h.s breathing became ea.y, ^ (n) Liston's Practical Surgery. Fourth Edl- ti0(b)UvscA»; In Lancet, 1833,34, vol. ii. p. 419. —Also Liston's own notice of Ocalftirewyj"fromWhicli I have quoted, (r) Liston ; just cited.403 TRACHEOTOMY. :: peateil dispositions to cough, which alarmed him, threatening instant suffocation. ; * * He complained of a sense of constriction across the chest, * * * had fits of aiiiighing, which came on at intervals of two or three hours, during which he was Smparatively easy. The face presented a purplish hue, with great anxiety depicted.” : liree days after, on examining the chest, its “ appearance was most remarkable. On the ■ i;ght side a loss of symmetry, with evident depression and altered action in breathing. ,Hhe stethescope indicated no respiratory murmur ; whilst on the left side there was the ump symmetrical beauty of a youthful chest, with the common action of that side in i nspiration. * * * On the sixth day the cough ceased, and also the fits of suffocation, r&iaich evidently indicated a fixed position of the foreign body.” On the tenth day it j.ais determined to perform laryngotomy between the cricoid and thyroid cartilages; >bhich done, a pair of forceps invented for the purpose were introduced, and “ acted as a I land, for on their introduction Dickin detected the presence of a metallic body. r#iey were introduced again without the slightest inconvenience to the patient (at least ? (parently so,) when again the point came in contact with the button, which was laid ; | Id of, and removed in their grasp. * * * For several days a considerable quantity of uOico-purulent matter was discharged through the wound, having accumulated around button in the bronchus.” (pp. 419, 20.) In a fortnight the boy was well, and returned hi school. /If after opening the larynx or windpipe, the foreign body be jerked up into the wound, 1 shot through it, immediately after the free admission of the air, the windpipe be exa- ued by passing a straight sound through it towards the chest, and no obstruction be ; rnd it will be right to examine the larynx itself, and the rima by passing a sound i- wards into the throat. The necessity for doing this is seen from the case related by 9 iULETAN (a), in which a person suffered severely from having a portion of tendon of al lodged in his throat; it was so large that it was presumed to have lodged in the 9 ophagus; no relief, however, was obtained by the introduction of instruments, and < u.letan therefore opened the larynx by division of the thyroid cartilage, and on traducing his finger, unawares tlirust the tendon upwards, after which with the i obang it was forced down the throat, and the patient recovered.—J. F. S.] I 1763. If bronchotomy be considered in reference to the three parts at i inch it may be performed, namely, on the thyroid cartilage, on the crico- byroid ligament, and in the windpipe, the following circumstances must be f ,rne in mind with reference to the special object of the operation. »In cutting through the thyroid cartilage, it may be feared, in addition I J, possibility of it being ossified, and therefore difficult or incapable j being cut through, that the laryngeal ligaments may be wounded, and ijat in those cases in which the operation is undertaken, on account of a II ollen and thickened condition of the inner membrane of the larynx, the (K may not obtain a sufficient entrance ; the voice also may remain for a 1 Wig while, or even permanently hoarse, if the operation be undertaken in e larynx. (Peleetan.) il Tracheotomy, to wit, the cutting into the windpipe from the cricoid !.milage to.the upper edge of the breast-bone, is always dangerous; the < ahvays interferes with the anastomoses of the thyroideal arteries; if X arterial plexus of the thyroid gland be wounded, it is very difficult to luoh t bleeding, and the blood flowing into the windpipe causes violent f,n thick-necked persons the operation maybe extremely difficult, even impossible. In children it is always very difficult, on account of tuckness of their neck and the depth of their windpipe (1). If there ' n arlena thyroidea irna, it will certainly be wounded. ir(lsTin° th,6 crieo-thyroid ligament, and enlarging the wound down- ,,,1 • Ir^/^ * * 16 cr'c°i^ cartilage, and the first two or three rings of the ‘’•eons ary^9°'tracheotomia) seems therefore to be the most advan- jp an , hroce(:f lng, both where it is desired to assist the entrance of the > o remove a foreign body, because by this method the arterial (ji) Clinique Chirurgicale, vol. i. p. 13. 2 d 211ANULA. 404 plexus and the deep position of the windpipe are best avoided. Even if the foreign body be lower down in the windpipe, it may be either brought near the opening, by breathing or coughing, or it may be with proper care taken out with a blunt curved director or with the forceps. If it lie found fixed in the larynx, the cut may even be extended from the crico- thyroid ligament along the middle of the thyroid cartilage. By this mode of proceeding, then, the object of the operation is best attained in all the conditions of the disease which have been mentioned {par. 17o6); and a deeper cut into the windpipe would be required only in those cases where the situation of a foreign body in the oesophagus, or other tumours, r which compress the windpipe may render it necessary. m According to Allan Burns (a), the position of the thyroid gland should be determined hy the cricoid cartilage, and in children the space between this gland and theupper part of the breast-bone is great, therefore tracheotomy is easier. 1764 The varieties observed by Allan Burns in the vessels of the j neck always renders careful observation necessary during the course of the operation He found the arteria innommata near the under edge of the thyroid cartilage, and even the carotid itself crossing the windpipe. Second Section.-OF UNNATURAL COLLECTIONS OF NATURAL PRODUCi o. A. IN THEIR PROPER CAVITIES AND RECEPTACLES. I.—OF RANULA. Louis, Sur les Tumeurs Salivaires ; in Mem. de l’Acad. de Chir., vol. m. p. 462. Ibid., Sur les Tumeurs Sublinguales ; in same, vol. v. p. 420. Murray, De tumoribus salivalibus. Upsal, 1/85. ... • Breschet, Considerations sur la tumeur nominee Ranula ou GrenomUe I Journal Univers. des Sc. Medic., 1817, vol. vu. p. -96 . Annaleo,* Reisinger, Bemerkungen iiber die Froschgeschwulst; in his Baier scl - V°Kell, Beob'achtungen iiber FroschgeschwiRste; in von Graeme und von Wallhek's Journal, vol. xxvi. p. 588. r, •//-«. \ 1765. Ranula {Ranula, Lat.; FroschgeschwiRste Germ, Fr.) is a tumour beneath the tongue, sometimes soft and fluctuating, times hard and firm, at first attended with little portion as it enlarges, it interferes with chewit occupies speech. Should the swelling attain a very considerable size, ^ the greater part of the mouth, thrusts the tongue upwards and to & occasionally also the front teeth outwards, and at the same tun* ^ swelling beneath the jaw. In this state the symptoms 6„d very marked, the swelling itself becomes painful and may ^ ■ & downwards, forming beneath the jaw and on u.e ^ for an neck a very considerable swelling, which may be easily mistake abscess. tit 9*1 a iscess. , „ alarms (a) Surgical Anatomy of the Head and Neck, p-405 RANULA. ■ evoking into which, Clink observed a large ranula thrusting back the tongue, which he istantiy punctured with a lancet, and relieved the patient from the threatening suffoca- on.—J. F. S.J 1766. Passing; over Parers opinion of the nature of ranula, that it ..insisted of a cold, moist, clammy, matter, which proceeded from the .rain to the tongue, two different views have been taken of it. First, It ,as been considered as an encysted swelling by Fabr. ab Aquapendente, n Iionis, IIeister, Meckel, in part, von Winter, Syme, and others. Secondly, As a stoppage or closure of the Whartonian duct, from which esults the retention of the spittle of the submaxillary gland and the disten- oi ion of the walls of the duct in consequence of the spittle collected in it; n opinion first started by Munichs (a), afterwards more especially de- clared by Louis, and up to the present time held by most writers. This > pinion rests specially upon the state of the fluid contained in the swel- ing, which, similar to white of egg in colour and consistence, by long conti- mance in the swelling, becomes viscid, dusky, and frequently mixed with tony concretions (1); and upon the possibility, in many instances, by •pening the obstructed Whartonian duct with a probe, to discharge the luid and effect the cure. Reisinger, who frequently found, by examina- ion with a delicate probe, that the Whartonian duct was still pervious, apposes, on the contrary, that the thickening of the spittle was not merely he consequence of it being retained, and that this was always in propor- ion to the time the swelling had existed, but that unnaturally secreted pittle perhaps accompanied with atony of the duct, caused the develop- nent of ranula, and that it was not merely formed by the distended .Vhartonian duct, but that not unfrequently the distended Whartonian luct burst, and the secreted fluid poured out, and was contained in a sac .f cellular tissue, not unlike a cystic tumour; in which way the various orms of ranula, as well as the often occurring transparency of the Whar- onian duct could be accounted for. This opinion has also been more ecently put forth by ITennemann (b). Kyle endeavoured to deny that ■anula depends on distension of the duct; inasmuch as it is imposible, that o small and thin a duct could bear so great distension as is observed in arge swellings of this kind ; that the fluid contained is not at all similar o spittle, but of the consistence of fat oil, brownish, like yellow olive oil, dammy, clear, and transparent; and according to the statement of the Patient after the operation, tasteless, and that these conditions are really rom the first, and not as Louis supposes, similar to white of egg. When •welling has existed a longer time the submaxillary glands swell, inflame, he and harden, by which their functions are destroyed. Lastly, If the spittle continue to flow, as after Dupuyt ren’s mode of operating, the dis- use diminishes, at least it never increases, which, however, is not always he case. Upon these grounds, Kyll holds to the old opinion ; according 0 him, the swelling has a sac which is probably an hydatid. [0) T he elder Cline himself had a stony concretion in one of the submaxillary ucts, which was readily removed by a slight cut through the membranes covering it. I im not aware, however, that it was accompanied with any degree of ranula.—J. F. S.] 1767. As unfortunately up to the present time pathologico-anatomical > .starvations upon the seat of ranula are entirely wanting, it is impossible 0 &ive a very decided judgment upon these different opinions, and still (a) Praktykc ilfir Heilkunde, p. 141. (.6) Beitruge Meklcnburg. Acrzte zur Med. und Chirurg., vol. i.406 TREATMENT OF more as several swellings beneath the tongue are known, to which tin term ramila has been applied, which have nothing in common with it bu their seat beneath the tongue. In the entire absence of anatomical obser vations on the nature of this disease, chemical examination of the fluid cai alone be useful in more satisfactorily deciding whether it be spittle or not I have found this fluid, both in recent and long-continued ranula, pal yellow, or brownish yellow, clear, thickly fluid, like white of egg, ver fibrous, so that it could not be poured in drops, but hangs together lik viucus Its chemical examination showed no resemblance to spittle; i consisted principally of albumen. If, therefore, it be not admitted th the fluid which the submaxillary and sublingual glands secrete, ditter fror the spittle of the parotid gland in its composition ; or if, when ranul exists, there be not an accompanying qualitative change in the secretion of these glands, then manifestly ranula must be considered as the collec tion of a peculiar fluid external to the Whartonian duct, beneath th mucous membrane of the mouth, or in a proper sac (mucous bag) whic latter opinion I consider most likely, and therefore ranula must beranke with dropsy of mucous bags. According to the chemical examination of the fluid from a ranula of a hoy of twelv years old, which my respected friend and colleague L. Gmelts hf.s j consists of water 94-6, of soluble albumen with a very small quantity- of stearin- osmazome salivary matter (?), and carbonate, nitrate and acetate of potash, o 4, in 10 narts Hence the fluid has no resemblance to spittle, as it wants the sulpho-cyam e c potash and almost the entire salivary matter; on the other hand, it contains a Erg proportion of albumen, which does not exist in healthy spittle. Opposed to this ui b examination by Dr L. Posselt, of a stone weighing 0 • 623 of a gram, which I remove “m theWhartonian duct, from which it appears that in 100 parts were of matter soluble in water, which showed the reaction of sal^^' m‘1^e[.’ 93 of cafrbonai S“e 7-t r,s upon the mSgeneo-glossi, where they enter the tongue, a little distantfromisfron g T&efrcenJum lingua and behind the opemng of B^thoi^s duct Thej are som lines in length, very distinct, and of unequal size on the two sides tne n generally larger than the left. In one instance it was divided on the right . y P"wS™ SSyCne forms in W.™'. duct, inflammation and —* - arise in its gradual enlargement, by which the stone will be as I have twice seen; bu? never, even when the duct is completely closed bytheston is there any condition similar to ranula. There is inflammation an sw■ g ^ elands, which if the abscess be discharged by bursting or cutting soo - hardness in the surrounding cellular tissue remains for some time. 1763. According to the difference of opinion as the nature o rami i, the aetiology different. An altered condition of the spittle 1m h* assumed by trtich it is disposed to the drodAin tf stony >1 to S"eethicykening of the spittle, and thereby stoppage of the Wharton* duct is set up, or union of the duct by inflammation and the Ike. * / case have I been able to ascertain de^ se have I been able to ascertain any ueuueu j ‘ more fre is not unfrequently observed in newly-born children, and oecu nuentlv in early than in later years. . , ewellin 1769. The treatment of ranula consists either in opening revent th ii and discharging its fluid, with which also it must be sought to prefer complete olSufe of this ^ ent th nia complete closure ot this opening, so incu ui« c « ““A; °bv excitin have a continual escape; or in putting a stop to the secre - wit a sufficiently smart inflammation, by destruction of the swellingRANULA. 407 Justic, or by its removal with the knife. With these several objects ■nous modes of treatment Iiave been proposed. First. Opening the >t relling with the actual cautery, (Pare',) or with caustic, in persons who j ir the knife with butyr of antimony (Zang.) Second. Puncture or | tting through its whole length (Louis.) Third. Cutting into the a filing and filling it with caustic and irritating materials, honey of roses 0 ;th sulphuric acid, (IIeister, Dionis,) lunar caustic, (Camper,) muri- i.‘ ic acid, (Acrel,) stuffing with lint (Callisen, Schreger.) Fourth. [ irtially cutting away the external wall, (Boyer,) with cauterization of ji e hinder Avail, (Sabatier, Vogel, Wilmer, Chopart, Desault, 4 id others.) Fifth. Introduction of a seton (van ber Haar and others,) . ixth. Introduction of a leaden thread, or of a bundle of lint (Louis, Sabatier.) Sevetith. Extirpation of the whole sac (Marchetti, 1 JicHTER, and others.) Eighth. Opening the swelling and in healing a >• tie cylinder of two flat small silver, gold, or platina plates, or a similar instrument of elastic gum. (Henning.) n Richter (a) recommends, in the ranula of children, cauterization with lunar caustic. i tier a clean good wound has been produced by the first touching the whole surface, e caustic is to be repeated as often as the wound diminishes. This is never required S» are than ten times. £ When the ranula is not large and old, and its membranes are thin, the opening of the / livary duct sometimes appears like an aphthous spot, and is only closed with viscid 0 atter or with a stony concretion; in such cases the duct should, according to Louis, ii hopabt, and Desault (£>), be again rendered pervious by introducing a probe, and deavouring to discharge the collected fluid, with which object the passage of the anal must be endeavoured to be kept open, by introducing a leaden thread, which must i; om time to time be withdrawn to allow the escape of the spittle. All writers agree « at this treatment is rarely suitable in its operation, as has been already observed in making of the nature of ranula, and as in many cases the salivary duct is found w Tvious, it is highly probable that a change in the condition of the swelling will take 1 face without it. 1770. Of the several modes of treatment, that proposed by Dupuytren I the most simple and certain. A small cut, or a puncture Avith a lancet made in the swelling, and after the fluid has been emptied, a silver, old, or, best of all, a platina cylinder, three inches long, an inch and a ) Jalf thick, composed of tAvo little elliptical plates, externally convex, and .Eternally someAvhat concave, and then the edges niay be fixed about the |lylinder. My OAvn practice confirms this mode of treatment; I have in 'very case succeeded in effecting a permanent cure ; the inner cylinder (reduced no inconvenience; and when after some time it aars displaced Wnd throAvn out, the edge of the inner plate having produced union, and ||iere was no return of the disease. Others have not had success by this ■eet od (von Graefe, Kyll.) And if the SAvelling should afterwards 'V urn, the removal of its front Avail is most efficient, for which purpose | must be lifted up Avith forceps, and cut off Avith Cooper’s scissors (c). modification of Dupuytren’s cylinder, which he provides with an fOn tV° i , the constant escaPe of the flu'd, I have found without objection, i tetiflmln W 10 e’ ^ thin„k. A*0 best method of treating ranula is by hooking up with lone ’!! a Pert,10n 0p wall, and cutting it out with a pair of scissors; which f ;3ut it is ° 1 le wound should be found and freely cauterized with lunar caustic. ‘Beninv r-',■ , nec<'s^ai1.y to repeat this operation two or three times before a permanent liroutrh i 6- es, ,.lsked. I have, in a few instances, passed a needle and thread hread tier! \ including a quarter of an inch of the wall of the swelling in ■•lowever 1 "v a owed it to ulcerate out. The success of this mode of treatmen • ' («A m a-• than t lat °f the former-—iJ. F. S.] tE«vre3'chim1^ere',i>S:l?'t,ln8’,i®^' ^°' (c)BbesObet; above cited.—Schabtleb; Unrurg., vol. ii. p. 217. oesterr. Med. Jahrbiicliern, vol. xvii. pt. iv. the treatment is,[ 408 ] idi II.—OF RETENTION OF BILE. Petit, Remarques sur les Tumeurs formees par la bile retenue dans la ve'sicule d § flel et qu’on a souvent prises pour des abces au foie; in Mem. de l’Acad de Chirurgu a vol. i. p. 155. ' All v Morand, Observations snv les Tumeurs a la vesicule du fiel; in same, vol iii. Bloch, Medicinisc.be Bemerkungen. Berlin, 1774 iv. Serastian, A. A., Dissert, de Hydrope vesicula; fellis. Heidelb., 1827. 1771. The already mentioned {par. 912) overfilling and distension o | the gall bladder when the outflow of the bile by the ductus choledochiu prevented, always occurs gradually. The patient, having previously los d his appetite, feels, for a longer or shorter time, a dull pain under the rib >i on the rio-ht side, which often extends to the region of the stomach an. ,ft loins. Afterwards there frequently occur, with previously lost appetite J. disturbed digestion, costiveness, pain in the right hypochondrion, and mor or less severe jaundice, symptoms of colic, the seat of which is, especiall^A' opposite the points of the ninth rib, accompanied with frequent vomiting -h febrile and other symptoms. If, under these circumstances, the painful fiat ■ of the right hypochondrion be examined, a more or less distinct round swel, 1 lino- is observed, projecting a little below the front edge of the liver, con l*; fused with it above, and more or less easily felt in different positions of th A body. The swelling, sometimes of itself, at other times at the very me ,rt ment when pressed, diminishes and is less tense, vvhereupon all the symptt;. toms diminish and bilious stools follow. If the distension of the bladde if be considerable, and have existed long, the swelling loses its mobility .1 becomes united to the peritonceum, and appears equally attached to th * wall of the belly and to the liver. Tin the Museum at St. Thomas’s is a gall bladder equal in size to the urinary bladde 1 of an ox, which was taken from a female patient who had been under the care c > Cheston of Gloucester. She had had a projection at the pit of the stomach for a ft K years, which, as it increased, caused her much pain, and was presumed to be an ab^ f of the liver. It was punctured and a considerable quantity of bile flowed out »1 wound was closed, but she died a few days after (a).—J. F. S.] 1772. It appears that in this disease the flow of bile into the mtestina i canal is most commonly not entirely prevented, and the patient has datUB- natural coloured motions. The disease may terminate in biliary nsta^Wi which case the gall bladder having adhered to the peritoneum, the W « collected in it makes its way out externally. The gall bladder may ais I grow to the colon or to any other intestine, and empty itself into it; or a union with the peritonceum having taken place, it may burst, and a tata effusion of bile into the cavity of the belly may ensue. [Sometimes when the ductus choledochus is obstructed, the gall bladder herent to the duodenum, ulceration takes place, and by this new opening the bi e * I continues to be discharged, and the functions of the gall bladder ceasing, it dimunsKfl to the size of an acorn, as in a preparation in St. Thomas s Museum. J. r. I 1773. As to the treatment of this disease, at first it is merely coo ■ to the use of those remedies which soothe or remove the irrdabie h inflammatory condition. At the same time it must be attempted,'oy bing, stroking, and pressing the swelling, to empty part of its o ^ . | into the duodenum, and to apply discutient remedies. As k) g I uncertain that there is considerable union of the gall bladder m * tonceum (which may indeed be presumed, although it cannot (a) MS. Lectures.RETENTION OF URINE. 409 h ill perfect surety, if the patient have had frequent symptoms of inflamma- | n and the swelling is no longer movable, as also by a slight adhesion the u ter may be effected) we must not dare to undertake the evacuation by a enin°- the gall bladder, as fatal escape of the bile is to be dreaded. For l s reason it appears not advisable to open the swelling previous to the i lamination of the wall of the belly, and even of the external coverings I mo- distinctly ascertained, that the bile may make its way out externally, D which case the adhesion is always to a proper extent (a). * 1774. Opening the gall bladder is best managed by making a cut into X > skin an inch and a half long upon the swelling, and then smaller cuts I -ough the muscles down to the peritonceum ; then with the forefinger of I . left hand it must be cautiously ascertained if the gall bladder adhere, 1 at the most fluctuating part the bistoury or lancet should be thrust f •ough the peritonceum and the wall of the gall bladder. If the adhesion * .ween the gall bladder and peritonceum be not fully made out, then, j( er the peritonceum has been laid bare as just mentioned, a trocar is to I thrust into the most fluctuating part and the tube left in till the gall X flder and peritonceum have united together, or caustic should be applied \ the peritonceum to produce this union (b). c. 1775. When the gall bladder has been emptied the opening must be t ntly filled with lint, the inflammatory symptoms excited must be treated eh 1 roper remedies, and in other respects it must be treated as has | >n already mentioned in biliary fistula (par. 913.) III.—OF RETENTION OF URINE, u Llbrecht, G., De Ischuria. Gotting., 1767. 4to. u Vagner, J., Dissert, de Ischuria vesicali atque vesicae paracentesi. Argent , 1779. 4to. t iIurray, Dissert, de Paracentesi Cystidis urinarise. Upsal, 1771. 4to. flj Veldon, Walter, Observations on the different modes of Puncturing the Bladder ■j »ses of Retention of Urine; with an Appendix on Retention of Urine, and on Ca- ters. Southampton, 1783. 8vo. ,) Bonn, A., Bemerkungen liber die Harnverhaltung und den Blasenstich iiber dem ; laambein. From the Dutch. Leipzig, 1796. 8vo. s icHMip, W., Ueber diejenigen Kranklieiten der Harnblase, Vorsteherdriise, und Harn- a .re (mit Ausnahme der Blasensteine) denen vorziiglich Manner in hohem Alter aus- -■ etzt sind. Wien, 1806. 8vo. i 3nsault, GEuvres Chirurgicales, vol. iii. p. 112. Soemmering, S. T., Abhandlung iiber die schnell und langsam todtenden Krank- ten der Harnblase und Harnrhore bei Miinnern im hohen Alter. Frankf., 1822. 8vo. i :oud Edition. a Jhopart, Traite des Maladies des Voies urinaires. Nouvelle Edition, par E. H. I lix Pascal. Paris, 1821. 2 vols. 8vo. i Ieinlein, Bemerkungen iiber die Ischurie; in Harless Jahrbiichern der deutschen ■uicin und Chirurgie. vol. i. p. 185; vol. iii. p. 102. Charles, A Treatise on the Diseases of the Urethra, Vesica Urinaria, &c. * lr<l Edition ; with Notes by J. Shaw. London, 1822. 8vo. f Robert, A Practical Essay on the Diseases and Iniuries of the Bladder ■ ndou, 1822. 8vo. (■ lowsmp, James, On the Diseases of the Urine and the Urinary Organs. London, iWoulin, Nouv. Traitement des Retentions d'Urine. Paris, 1824. fl<76. Retention of Urine ( Retentio Urincc, Ischuria, Lat.; Urinver- ^1 Dilpich ; Pricis Elcmcntaire, vol. ii. p. 272. (i) Richter ; Anfangsgriinde, vol. v. p. 125-27.410 RETENTION OF haltung, Germ. ; Retention d’ Urine, Fr.) designates those diseased conditions in which the urine is retained by any obstacle in the canals destined for its discharge. This obstruction may be in the kidneys, in the bladder, or in the urethra, and hence is named either Ischuria remlix ureterica, vesicalis, urethralis. The discharge of the urine is thereby either completely stopped, or it may be voided with difficulty (Dgsuria) or only i by drops (Stranguria.) Retention of urine from growing together of the lips of the urethra has been already ■.! treated of (par. 1702.) That state of disease in which, on account of local disturbance in the kidneys or by ? \ general disease, no urine is secreted, (Anuria, Suppressio Urince,) must be distinguish** from retention of urine (a). | 4 i 1777. Retention of urine in the urinary passages and in the kidneys ? ) may be produced by foreign bodies which fill their cavities, as stones, l hydatids, lumps of blood, pus, thick mucus, worms, or by inflammation, t chronic swelling, and spasm of these passages, or by swellings which com-. press the bladder. The obstruction which prevents the passage of flu urine through the ureters is rarely on both sides, therefore complete reten-' > tion of urine is rare; the flow of urine may be completely or incompletely prevented. 1778. All the symptoms which manifest retention of urine in tin ureters are doubtful. The patient feels more or less violent urging. :>i stabbing pain, extending from the region of the kidney downwards, an? : i increased on motion. Although there may be a smaller discharge o !j* urine, yet are the signs deficient which show a collection of urine in flu (| bladder. But if the patient have previously voided some little stones wit! i the urine, if with previous pain in the kidneys a stabbing pain seem ti: strike downwards, and there be a sense of weight and tension at one par- : ticular spot, it may be presumed, with probability, that the ureter it. ‘ stopped by a stone. The distension of the ureter above the obstructioi t becomes gradually greater, though externally no swelling be observed r which, however, is contradicted by Allan’s (h) case(l). At last the urine collects in such quantity that the ureter increases tail double and triple its size. If the stoppage be only at one part, thdl ailment may continue longer without particular inconvenience; undeMj which circumstances, by the vicarious activity of the other kidney, tm • ordinary quantity of urine is passed. The dangers which may be specially,* produced by Ischuria ureterica, are complete suppression of the urinary ■ i secretion, by which the following general symptoms may be caused: in- flammation, suppression, and bursting of the ureters and kidneys;11' which case extravasation of urine into the cellular tissue and fistula; follow, or if the urine be poured into the cavity of the belly, inflammation. (1) The patient suffered early from gravel, and treatment was employed proper I symptoms of stoppage of the ureter by stone, which passed off in four days, A sWe,-p ' then arose on the left hip, which daily increased, whilst the quantity of urine diminished. Three weeks from the commencement of the disease the skin and m were cut through above the crest of the hip-bone, and the transversal fascia p> o « with a trocar, which was thrust into the cavity beueath, from which seven P1 p j urine escaped. The symptoms diminished; no tube was left in; the sj nip ' o J irritation returned, and after a week, a tube having been again introduced, six P . * urine and two of pus were evacuated. The disease subsided, and recurred trom (a) Abebchombie, J.; in bdinb. Med. and Surg. Journ., vol. xvii. p. 210. 1S-1-411 URINE. I P The patient died five months and eleven days after the operation during which j p’ ,he urinary fistula remained. Death was caused by gradual wasting. On dis- I oi the kidney was found expanded into a cellular sac the mucous membrane of a ureter thickened, and completely closed below with coagulable lymph (/>). M779. The treatment of Ischuria ureterica, when accompanied with llent pain and inflammatory symptoms, consists only in the employment ■antiphlogistic remedies, blood-letting, soothing clysters, bathing, stoups, el the like. In the contrary condition, shaking motions, as riding, and •?>n vomiting may be successfully employed, in order to favour the } <cent of the stone in the ureter. (1780. When the urine is retained in the bladder, various symptoms {, -ur according to the degree and duration of the collection. The patient f ]s a constant urging to void his urine, but is unable to do so ; there is ; io-ht and tension at the lower part of the belly, and in the penncEum ; i wellino- rises above the pubes, elastic and at times fluctuating, ascends it entimes up to the navel, and even still higher, generally in the middle the belly, but sometimes more to one side than the other. As the *■ dder enlarges, especially from above downwards, so it thrusts down its Ij ;e,' forcing it against the perincemn, presses upon the vagina and in | n upon the rectum, where on examination with the finger introduced i] o the gut, it is felt as a compressible elastic swelling. Sometimes the t .dder is but little distended, on account of the peculiar rigidity of j coats. In fat persons the swelling is not so distinctly felt as in d n ones. u in important symptom which is rarely wanting, and which may be perceived even i /ery stout persons, is the dull sound perceived on percussion from the sword-like 0 tilage down along the white line, and from the iliac spine of one side to that of the a er, in the region of the bladder, by which, as well as by the shriller abdominal | nd in the neighbourhood of the bladder, the extent of that organ can be ascertained. 1 other important pathological sign is the fluctuation of the fluid in the bladder, ?. ich is perceived when, with one finger in the rectum or vagina, and the other hand © ced over the region of the bladder, it can be produced and felt by the alternate je ssure of one or other (Pignb.) ’ 1781. If the urine be not passed in the usual way, the distension of the 7 (dder becomes greater, and the result of the disease varies. The bladder ii .y burst by partial gangrenous destruction (1), and the urine be poured it Ih into the neighbouring cellular tissue, in which case either urinary 'mice are formed, or death ensues as the consequence of gangrenous u lammation of the bowels. The bladder may be violently inflamed, and • ; inflammation spread over the abdominal intestines. Sometimes, when « i bladder has attained its greatest distension, the ureters are also consi- rably distended up to the kidneys, which on account of the oblique itrance of those canals into the bladder, has been doubted by some (jrsons. From the decomposition of the urine, and its reaction upon the ■fide organism, severe fever arises, with speedy sinking of the powers, 'tremely quick pulse, dry tongue, coma and delirium ; the perspiration i the whole body has an urinous smell; all the excretions are altered ; en there is watery vomiting with an urinous smell, and the patient soon »• Sometimes the urachus opens, and the urine flows out through the vel (2). T) Bursting of the bladder from retention of urine either without or with gangrene >f very rare occurrence; I have never seen nor had personal knowledge of such a (6) London Medical Gazette, vol. xix. p 883. 1837.RETENTION OF URINE, 412 case. Nor, as far as I am aware, is gangrene even of the bladder often met « Cheston indeed mentions (a) an instance, which however I think seems very doubt: ■ A woman thirty-five years of age, and four months gone with child, had suppression urine, for which a catheter was passed, and five pints of water drawn off. Seven eight days after she again had retention, but then only half a pint of water could withdrawn by the instrument; after this, however, water continued to pass. On fourteenth or fifteenth day from the first attack she died, the bladder having risen uj the navel. On examination, it was found to contain a quart of foetid, thick, purul , urine, and the/(«)rf«s of the bladder is stated to have been completely sphacelated. 1 walls of the bladder had doubled by the pressure of the womb, so as to form t cavities, and this fold had prevented the entrance of the catheter. (2) The opening of the urachus, I think, must be admitted with very considers doubt. I have on one occasion, however, seen in a healthy woman a very small ooz* of clear fluid entirely free from smell or acridity from the navel, which I thoug might have been from the urachus. It had existed for a considerable time. Astr- gents were used for some time without advantage, and she ceased coming to me J. F. S.j 1782. If a retention of urine have been slowly produced, so that for long time previous, only part of the urine has been voided, whilst t bladder itself still remained full, the symptoms are less active. Frc the urine collected in the bladder, which becomes decomposed, a sir inflammation is produced, which specially attacks the mucous membrat and alters its secretion. The general health is disturbed, the digesti- suffers, the countenance pales, the muscles become flabby, the patie suffers from fever, and the like. The walls of the bladder often becoi t much thickened, and frequently folds, and all the deepenings are produc by the separation of the muscular fibres (l). (1) These sac-like deepenings are the first step of the spontaneous perforation of- bladder, which Mercier (b) has well described, and which has been considered be caused by the use of the sound. The mucous membrane of the bladder pushes b i these deepenings, and is sometimes in immediate contact with the peritunaum; son times separated from it by a peculiar thick layer of cellular tissue. These deepenu occur specially on the sides, and on the under part of the hind wall of the blunt above the openings of the ureters. After a certain time the mucous membrane of ulcerates at the bottom of these sacs, and is followed by a pouring forth of the uni the mucous membrane may even be torn in retention of urine, and in the violent emH to discharge it, which cause these cell-like deepenings, after or even without prevu ulcerative inflammation (2). As the bottom ot these sacs have not contractility w > their opening, surrounded by muscular fibres, have, the urine contained in them, is w difficulty renewed; it collects, decomposes, and produces inflammation. Someiin stones form in them, which gradually enlarge, and distend the bottom of tne » without enlarging its opening, and thus encysted stones are formed, which excite inflammation, and cause perforation. The suppuration which results nw j perforation, may spread into the cellular tissue beneath the peritoneum, and mere m one or more abscesses, which open into the peritoiuBum, either without previous l sion, in consequence of which death speedily follows; or after the suppuration MS bounded by adhesion, in which case fatal symptoms less frequently follow, the abscess opens into an intestine, sometimes in the wall of the belly, into tn •! and so on, and cause death only consecutively. Under these circumstances also unnrsj fistulas may be formed (Pione.) T r ql [(2) The bursting of these deepeuings or sacs is certainly very rare.—J. r- ] 1783. The causes of retention of urine in the bladder may be,frsti 1“ . of the bladder ; secondly, inflammation ; thirdly, spasm; and ^ stoppage of the urine depending on foreign bodies introduced in j urethra or bladder, or on stones, coagulated blood, and so on, on ling and hardening of the prostate gland, on growths in the bla / . . ... OlO 1333* I (rt) Pathological Inquiries ami Observations in (6) Gazette Medirale, vol. in. p -> Surgery. Gloucester, 1700. dto.FROM PALSY. 413 srssure of the impregnated or unimpregnated womb, on swellings or be»trdened intestines, or on strictures. a 1784. Paralytic Retention of Urine (Ischuria paralytica) in general ro lies on slowly, the urine is no longer discharged with the usual power, "patient soon feels the need of voiding it again, which he can only ■xt with the greatest exertion. This difficulty gradually increases, the neat last flows off involuntarily, and the patient can by his efforts but le or not at all increase the flow, which at last stops completely. The tended bladder forms the already mentioned (par. 1780) swelling above ■mV; pubes, which is nearly painless, and sometimes in such degree that it 5y be mistaken for pregnancy or dropsy, which may be the more possible : the patient occasionally retains the power of voiding his urine by > jdent efforts, often even in a quantity equal to the drink taken in the day, -Jtthout, however, emptying the distended bladder. If the filled bladder I somewhat firmly pressed, a few drops of urine will escape through the js ithra. Is Sometimes paralytic retention arises quickly under severe symptoms of w'pasmodic and inflammatory affection of the neck of the bladder, when, if ii pedy assistance be not afforded, considerable distension of the bladder, i (j l palsy of its walls are produced. In the later course of the disease, >T ;re are accompanying it a flow of mucus from the bladder, thickening of walls, swelling of the prostate gland, and the like. This kind of para- ic retention of urine happens most commonly in old persons who have n dissolute in various ways, have suffered from gout and rheumatism ; id usually the gout or rheumatism is the proximate cause. 178a. When the bladder in this retention of urine has become very much tended, the pressure of the abdominal muscles and bowels prevents f| further distension; some urine always dribbles, and bursting of the adder does not take place. But inflammatory symptoms, and more | less severe fever may accompany it. The flow of urine is then com- < ptely stopped, and the bladder may be distended to such extent that 1 ‘may become grangenous and tear ; this, however, is a rare termination. s Oesteblen (a) divides paralytic retention into Ischuria paralytica partialis vesica, which the powers of the bladder and abdominal muscles are very weak ; and Ischuria * rn('/tica universes vesica, in which there is accompanying palsy of the bladder, and ►| • sphincter muscle of that organ. <>1786. This form of retention of urine is peculiar to old people, and - pends on the loss of contractile power in the bladder, and on the ! tnerally diminishing muscular activity in advanced age. It may be the 0 iu,t previous debilitating causes, debauched life, venereal disease, • quent onanism. T lie bad habit of holding their water very long ,J*:quently produces it in persons who lead a sedentary life, who work rd and frequently allow the disposition to make water to pass by without 4 r ending to it. It may also result from concussion and palsy of the lower ’ [rt of the spinal marrow and sacral nerves, or from organic disease of the •nal marow: it frequently occurs in nervous fevers. I1!8'1 The prognosis of this disease is guided by its degree and duration, .4 e age of the patient and by its cause. It is most easily cured in young e * the older the patient and liis disease are, the less hope is there of [e\ ^ ^he disease be caused by affections of the spinal marrow and !! ra nerves, the prognosis must be directed by them. (a) Heidell). kliniscli. Annalen, vol. viii. p. 421.414 TREATMENT OF PARALYTIC RETENTION. 1788. The treatment of paralytic retention consists in emptying tli bladder of its urine, and in restoring its contractile power. The remedies which answer to the latter indication are useless without attention to tli former. 1789. Emptying the bladder by means of the catheter, must be pei formed so frequently, that all distension from the collecting of the urin must be prevented. The catheter may be either introduced afresh asofte as necessary, or an elastic catheter may be left in, which in all caseswher* the patient is not under immediate observation, is the most fitting, as tli urine often collects again with great quickness, and therefore the bladde again becomes greatly distended. The introduction of the catheter is h these cases always unattended with difficulty, and generally in ashorttim: the patient may learn himself to pass it. If the bladder be weak, tli urine sometimes only Hows through the catheter, when pressure is matleo the belly. This indisposition of the urine to pass by the catheter, may lea- to the mistake that the instrument is not in the bladder («)• The cathete must be continued till the urine pass through it, and between it and tin urethra, in a strong unbroken stream ; and if even the patient should voi his urine without the catheter, it should be frequently ascertained by intrc ducing it, that no urine be retained in the bladder. 1790. The remedies which answer the second indication are, cold bath ing of the pubic region and perinceum; cold applications, cold injections int the rectum; rubbing volatile salves on the perinceum, and on the regioi of the bladder. Internally should be given arnica, oleum animate Dippeli cantharides to the amount of a grain daily with camphor and gum-arabic tincture of cantharides up to fifteen or twenty drops, with almond milk And in addition to these general strengthening baths, galvanism, elec, tricity, and blisters upon the sacrum. When the patient can again him. self discharge his urine, he must not dare to allow the least disposition t. void it to pass unsatisfied. 1791. In the quickly occurring paralytic retention, where gout o rheumatism are in play, warm sulphur baths, fomentations of aromati herbs with wine and vinegar, rubbing in oil of juniper, particularly o the inside of the thighs ; cupping and easily digestible diet are to b , used. If violent inflammatory symptoms be present, leeches are to b applied to the perinceum. The introduction of the catheter, necessfflf «! it be, is generally difficult on account of the contraction of the neck o bladder. . 1792. If paralytic retention have existed for some time, and be accom panied with an inflammatory condition, it must, according to circumstance* be treated antiphlogistically with blood-letting, clysters, diluting, shg . I astringent drinks, as alum milk, and the like. If the disease be incurau » as frequently it is in very old persons, and if it have long existed, j rwtJfiTit should alwavs use a catheter for emptying his bladder. The treatment of this ailment must consist in the gradual extension415 RETENTION OF URINE FROM INFLAMMATION. • I,,. Madder to their natural condition, which must be done by voluntarily retaining the * -ine or if this be impossible, by introducing a catheter morning and night for a long ,‘j hiie by which the intervals of relieving the bladder maybe gradually lengthened (a). L ,he over-sensibility of the bladder is thereby checked by compelling it to bear a greater (loree of irritation, and by the same means also the contractile power of its sphincter i Lav be increased. In most cases this great sensibility of the bladder is connected (when id does not depend on local disease in the urinary passages) with disturbance of the W<n>stive organs and irregular living, and requires gently purgative and afterwards tonic Enedies, lukewarm bathing or washing the perinceum with lukewarm water, clysters iiqr.th opium, purgatives, and strictly regulated diet. I: 1793. Retention of Urine, depending on inflammation, (Ischuria Hflavfmatoria,) commences with the most violent and dangerous symptoms. ' ides great urging, the patient feels a deep-seated pain in the bladder id neighbouring parts. There is accompanying fever, the distended i gion of the bladder smarts when touched, and is frequently reddened. In the inflammation spreads over the other bowels ; eructations and vomiting Ijicur, and if they continue beyond the sixth day, the patient’s life is in ffitreme danger, and death is almost unavoidable. Sometimes the inflam- mation takes a more insidious course, and puriform secretion with thick- :i )iing of the bladder occur. q 1794. The inflammation in this retention may be seated in the whole ) nal of tlie urethra, in the neck of the bladder, in the prostate gland, mid even in the bladder itself. i Its causes are, external violence, which attacks the perinceum and ■ gion of the bladder, stones in the bladder, extension of the irritation of a e rectum in hsemorrhoidal affections to the bladder, rectal fistula, and & e like ; a high degree of inflammation in gonorrhoea, suppression of the t> lual discharges, suppressed gout, repressed eruptions on the skin, and |b .tching cold. 1795. Antiphlogistic remedies must be employed in inflammatory reten- 1 )n of urine, with reference to the cause which has produced it. Blood >d ust be taken away and leeches applied to the perinceum; mucilaginous ! - inks taken, though in as small quantity as possible, in order not to increase il|e filling of the bladder. As in inflammatory retention, spasmodic con- iioiction of the neck of the bladder is always present, warm anodyne appli- Iftions must be made to the pubes and perinceum, warm vapour of ca- - omileto the perinceum, rubbing in volatile ointments, clysters with opium, > lid the like employed. Tobacco clysters are much relied on. Blisters 'I ust not be applied ; calomel and opium internally are specially effective. ■ 1796. In severe gonorrheeal inflammation soothing applications are also be made over the whole penis, the patient laid horizontally, and the r’ lsticles supported with a suspender. In hsemorrhoidal affections leeches ije applied to the rectum, and internally, cream of tartar and sulphur ven. 1797. Although emptying of the urine be necessary, as by its irritation >'causes the inflammation, it must not be used till the remedies already ■commended have been employed. The introduction of the catheter is ■re always painful and difficult; an elastic one is best used, and its point I ■ ould be passed far into the bladder, so that its walls should not be irri- e ■ ^ tbe catheter can in no way be introduced and mortification of I ilb?r ‘'i® Hambeschwerdon Ghckfe und von Walthkii’s Journal, vol. i.p.309. erminilerter capacit.it der Ilarnblaae ; in —IIysi.op; in Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. vi. p. I0S. — Hinoiiam ; abovo cited, p.RETENTION OF URINE FROM SPASM, 416 the bladder be dreaded, puncturing the bladder must be perform, without delay. 1798. In Spasmodic Retention of Urine (Ischuria Spasmodica) t neck of the bladder, and perhaps also the urethra, are narrowed at diff'ere parts, and accompanied with spasmodic contraction of the perinaeal mu cles. ’ It occurs specially in sensitive persons, in hypochondriacs, hemorrhoidal affections, in which there is often at the same time preset spasmodic contraction of the m. sphincter ani, fiom catching cold, inon nate drinking, worms, holding the water too long, and the like. TK retention is always peculiar in sometimes subsiding and again recurring it therefore has not the signs of inflammatory retention, at least in genei- they are not present, though they may at a later period accompany it. 1799. In this form of retention antispasmodic remedies are usual, employed warm applications of camomile, hyoscyamus, and the like, the perineum and region of the bladder ; rubbing in volatile ointment with opium or ol. hyoscyami; clysters of camomile, asajcetida and opiui tobacco clysters (a), lukewarm camomile hip-baths. Internally should I given Dover’s powder, or opium, with mucilaginous remedies, poll, lucopodii. According to its various causes, should be employed, in haano rhoids, sulphur, with cream of tartar; in colds, diaphoretic remedie especially camphor in proper doses ; in worms, anthelmintics; and accon ing to the fancy, unfermented drinks, calcined magnesia, with aromatic and the qIans penis to be put in cold water. 1800. If by this treatment the urine do not flow, a catheter must introduced, which always discovers a considerable obstacle at the nee of the bladder, sometimes even in the passage of the instrument in U urethra. If inflammatory accompany the spasmodic symptoms, the ant phlogistic must be added to the antispasmodic remedies. If the retentog of mine have occurred from having voluntarily retained it for a long tin in which case the symptoms are always more severe on account of greater quantity, the treatment must immediately commence vith 0 introduction of the catheter. . 1801. The retention of urine which depends on stoppage of t he _ may be produced by stones in the bladder when they be upon the inn apeDure^f that canal, or if being small, they have squeezed into it ( ) by coagulated blood (2), or thickened mucus ; by worms «h«* PJ* with the urine (3) ; by foreign bodies which have been passed out into the urethra (4). In all these cases the urethra is either con pletely closed by the foreign body, or in consequence of the irritation , spasmodic contraction which they have excited. ^*■1 [(I) Stones, if small enough to escape from the bladder, ^ rf i MS In the Museum at the College of Surgeons, there is a 'e, J T"1 j" tlu, momlirano case which occurred to John Hunter, in which a narrow stricture; in <1 ^ ,ine part of the urethra was blocked up by a very small stone, ha > and thesbo diameter; it is figured, in his work, On the Venereal Disease, (P • ..'dder in cons | notice attacked to it is, that the man “ died of a is interesting, as «1 ouence of a stricture and stone in the urethra. 1 nis pripa „ a canula ! stated cause of Hunter’s beginning to use caustic bougies, for he add., ^ M Ba.M, Henrv, On the use of Nicotiana in Retention of Urine; in Medico-Chinirg. Trans.,417 FROM FOREIGN BODIES, FROM STONE. ^i ntroduced from the glans down to the stricture, showing the practicability of destroying f : with caustic.” In the same collection, there is also another instance of a stone jjthe urethra behind a stricture, in a boy of four years old, to which he refers, (p. 124,) irsa the same work. (2) Howship (a) gives a good example of blood filling the bladder, in an elderly Sw ban, who was attacked with what was at first supposed to be a retention of urine, and 9 catheter having been repeatedly passed without any urine escaping, it was thought not fsb have entered the bladder. He died on the following day, and on examination, the ■ladder was found entirely filled with a very large coagulum. In another case, he Hpiientions the bladder being nearly filled with blood, and containing a stone in the jfjentre of the clot. i, When blood is found in the bladder, it is more commonly from fungous growths il either from the bladder itself, or from the prostate, of which Bransby Cooper (6) ives good examples. • The case of Mathieu’s, quoted by Samuel Cooper (c), appears to me nothing more | bian an enlarged prostate, which the catheters first used were not of sufficient length to i Jiach beyond, and not retention from a clot in the bladder. ■ I have known, in two or three instances after the operation for the stone, blood to mdow back into the bladder, and there coagulating, prevent for a time the escape of i *rine, either from the urethra or from the wound. Indeed, if for some hours after the s) operation, urine do not pass from the wound, it may, be presumed something of this ii ind is going on, and the bladder requires gently washing out, through the wound, 'z !? ith a syringe. I j (3) Lawrence (d) relates a very remarkable instance of an undescribed species of :*>| orms voided from the urethra, to the amount of from eight hundred to a thousand, by :i ; woman, aged twenty-four years. He also mentions examples of the larvae of insects having been passed. Of discharges if' worms and insect larvae, and portions of the lining membrane of the bladder, which ! djive been mistaken for them, there is no lack in the accounts of various writers. | GO Foreign bodies, of various kinds, have frequently been purposely introduced into i vie urethra, and escaping from the fingers of the holder, have either lodged in it, or more | generally slipped back into the bladder. Bougies, and elastic catheters, and even those | jijf metal, have been thus occasionally circumstanced by accident, the whole of the t 'dinner being sucked in, as it were, by the bladder; and the latter having been broken, I -ing pushed in by unskilful endeavours to prevent their escape backwards. But ■ abaccd-pipes used as substitutes for bougies, are probably the most common foreign yxlies which are met with in the urethra or bladder. Tyrrell (e) had a case in which Shie patient broke off three inches of the curve of a silver catheter, which slipped S.jito the bladder. He walked to St. Thomas’s, a distance of about twenty-one miles Mom his residence, without much inconvenience, except that “occasionally in stooping, [Walking up stairs, or raising himself in bed, he experienced lancinating pain, as if some n iarp instrument were penetrating the bladder. * * * On passing a sound, it was >1 und lodged at the fundus of the bladder transversely; its extremities being embraced lay that viscus, so as to be held with some firmness.” It was brought lower with a 1. mnd, hut still remained transverse. Tyrrell “ then introduced one of Weiss’s instru- rt ents for extracting small calculi, which was nearly straight, and had a strong spring ; tfl i? careful examination with which, he discovered that the extremity of the foreign f 'xly towards the patient’s right side was free, and that the other was covered with a ft*" of the bladder. After several unsuccessful attempts, he succeeded in seizing the 'ee extremity with the instrument, and by withdrawing it very cautiously, brought the J >ece of catheter into the urethra, when the forceps slipped from it. He immediately Introduced his fingers into the rectum, for the purpose of compressing the urethra utween the foreign body and the bladder, so as to prevent any retrograde movement of II •a®** This be'ng secured, he again introduced the forceps into the urethra, and - menrst attempt caught the piece of catheter, and drew it out.” i ‘ am indebted to my friend Crisp, of Walworth, for the two following highly inter- | tmg cases, which were treated by himb 6 J ' -'U8C 1. All olfl sail nr lint! hoon In fV»Q linVxif r\P il.n 1 1 „ 1 _j.l_ _ O _418 RETENTION OF URINE, FROM STONE; did not prevent him subsequently recurring to the same mode of treatment, when tl pipe ao'ain broke, leaving about an inch and a half in the membranous part of tl urethra This he attempted to remove, by making a cut with a penknife into tl perinamm as he lay before a glass, and succeeded in exposing the pipe, but beir, unprovided with instruments, and failing, by groping with his finger, to get it, he w: obliged to send for my friend, who drew it forwards with a pair of dressing forcep and readily removed it. The man did well. Case 2 A man in Walworth workhouse, having made frequent attempts to comm suicide, at length, for the same object, passed a piece of stiff wire, about five or s inches long into the urethra, as far as he could, and afterwards drove it with his fi under the arch of the pubes into the pelvis. By pressure on the perineum, the e: tremitv of the wire was indistinctly felt. A cut was made into the urethra behind tl bulb, about an inch and half in length, but the wire end not being seen, the cut w lengthened backwards about half an inch, which exposed the extremity of the wm Much difficulty was found in seizing the wire, as at each attempt it receded with the sc parts when the points of the dissecting forceps (which only could be used, on accoir of want of space) were introduced; but when seized, it was readily withdrawn, ai th John HuNTEutays, that “bougies have been known to be forced out of the bladd along with the water, by the action of that viscus, and in several folds, (p. 134 ; Th is certainly a very rare occurrence, but, by no means, impossible or improbable; f. there is a preparation in St. Thomas’s Museum, of a large adventitious membrane, for or six inches long, and an inch and a half wide, which was voided by the urethre and it is only necessary for the bougie to be so situated as to form a sort of plu against which the urine behind may be driven forwards.—J. t. b.j 1802. If a vesical stone lie against the neck of the bladder, andproduc ischury, the same proceeding as in inflammatory ischury, must be te recourse to, and the stone removed from the neck of the bladder, eitlu bv placing the patient on his back, with hispefois raised, or by introducir a catheter. Lumps of blood and collections of mucus in the urethra * also relieved by passing the catheter. If small stones or other hard bod* stick in the urethra, itself, it must be attempted, by employing, at the san time, antiphlogistic and antispasmodic remedies, to squeeze them graduaJi out of the urethra, or with Hunter’s or Cooper s forceps to withdni them after having carefully enlarged the passage by introducing tint bougies, etpecially^if silkworm gut. If the object be not thus attain^ a c, must be made, where the foreign body is situated, and thence it must ! removed (1) : a catheter is to be left in afterwards, and the edges of wound tried to be healed with quick union (2). Retention of urine from small stones, which have got into the mouth of‘ the! ««£ or into its membranous part, is probably much more frequent, than generally .. PF- in which case the diagnosis is doubtful, and if the catheter be cannot be felt, and the retention on the contrary, is to be considered mflanmiatory^ spasmodic. As symptoms of such ischuria calculosa may be to a certain - sldered their occurrence after any mechanical movement, without stones, wbt ence and their cessation after such shaking. For the removal of use btdetfo the introduction of a catheter is not possible for instance, when ‘here are tures, injections of water, made with some force into the must te emp._ together with rubbing and shaking the perinamm, but the bladder must not be p overloaded, or the urethra considerably inflamed (a). 0ften 1 \ f(l) If a stone or any other body be near the lips of the ^ ai (j removed with a little dexterity and patience, by curving the ey’fj®" L* £d it; th. I gently insinuating it between the stone and the urethra, ^’Ithepomt legrtbe rca< j using the probe as a lever, it may be gently drawn forwards, andif^henthe tf the orifice of the canal, it will not pass, a small mck with a lancet at JMpa ^ , j aperture, where it most clings, will soon allow it to ame out If * J .( out> 8 c, I in the membranous part, if the forceps fail in catchin0 hoi necessary to introdm ; must be made directly down upon it But m doing this it will be necessary | („) Schhkoer, CUimrglselie Versuche, vol. i. p. 187.-Cloqvkt, I.; in Jonrn. de MWoc ne, vol-419 FROM IMPREGNATED WOMB, ETC. Jot mi P,0f i 3-i'ie forefinger of the left hand into the rectum, so as to fix the stone and prevent it slip- Ljngor being pushed back into the bladder, in the attempt to seize it: tor should that x appen, it will be necessary at once to perform the usual operation for stone, t (2) If the cut be made in the perinceum, no catheter should be left in, but the wound h lowed to heal, as after the operation for the stone. But if the urethra be opened before ie scrotum, and specially if near to it, a catheter must be left in, to prevent the escape of i tie urine into the cellular tissue.—J. F. S.] 1803. In retention from the pressure of the impregnated womb, or other iscera, the palliative treatment consists in introducing the catheter: . the former case the ischury ceases after delivery; in the latter the tv.iardening of the viscera must be got rid of, as well as other swellings Ij-hich compress the urethra. Retention from retroversion of the womb &tas been already considered (par. 1308.) pj [I once operated for retention of urine in a case which, after death, was found to epend on a large cyst, containing an acephalous hydatid, which occupied the whole > , ivity of the pelvis, and lying between the bladder and the rectum, compressed the n .inner between itself and the pubes, and as the bladder filled, it rose high above the V rim of the pelvis, in consequence of which, even after cutting into the perinceum, the m 'essure was so complete that the urine would not escape, except on the introduction -ft a very long catheter, which was continually displaced by the contraction of the sp ladder into the compressed part, into which no urine descended, and was only :placed with the greatest difficulty. The man died on the sixth day of constitutional ritation. Besides this cyst above mentioned, which contained 44 ounces of colourless aid enclosed in the hydatid, there was another, about the size of a goose’s egg, at the aver part of the sigmoid flexure of the colon, with thick walls, and an eschar upon , where it had probably, at some time or other, burst. The bladder was empty 9§ “tween the lower and fore part of the large cyst and the arch of the pubes; and ?tween the cyst and the back of the fundus of the bladder were two or three small ?sts of the size of small nuts, and upon the fore part of the fundus another as big ; a swan’s egg. All the cysts contained each an hydatid, except that on the ■ctum, on which there were several.—J. F. S.] 1804. Growths in the bladder, especially about its neck, are causes of chury, and the diagnosis is always uncertain. Sometimes there is only ne growth of much size, sometimes several: some have a thin stem, and hers a broad base. The use of the catheter is the only palliative. Such inrowths when discovered in the operation for the stone, have been torn t ;way with the forceps (a). I 1805. Swellings of the prostate gland may arise in various ways, and -i- jie passage of the urine become difficult, or quite impossible. The swelling •ay depend on inflammation, varicosity of the vessels, hardening, and one. 1806. Inflammation of the prostate gland may be consequence of • '(morrhcea, of external violence, and the like; in general, it developes • l self quickly. The patient has a sense of weight and burning in the Merinceuni and anus, a throbbing pain, the seat of which he refers to the > /eck of the bladder. The pain increases on pressure of the perinceum, :-nd specially on going to stool: the patient has difficulty and frequent • FPDg to void Jus urine: the swelling of the prostate is felt on introducing one finger into the rectum. In proportion to the degree of inflammation, fccur inflammatory symptoms and so on. If the inflammation do not ^Mspme, it may pass on to suppuration. Under these circumstances, after r.,le ^flammatory symptoms have gone over eight days, a throbbing pain is dt, increased fever towards evening, shiverings, and symptoms of reten- "on of urine, which subside a little, and increase afresh. The suppuration lre y appears to be seated in the proper substance of the gland, but rather («) Desaui.t; above cited, p. 175. 2 e 2420 RETENTION OF URINE, FROM INFLAMMATION ; in its coverings, and in the cellular tissue, connecting the lobes of the glam frequently several groups of abscesses form, and in this case the patie. generally sinks, some abscesses opening within, and others without, t abscesses burrow, and fistulous passages, and wasting suppuration ensue r« as pie abscess advances, the perinamm becomes tender,” says Brodie, “ and th< is a perceptible, though slight tumefaction and hardness in some one part of it T abscess if left to take its own course, sometimes bursts internally, that is, into t urethra-, more frequently, it makes its way through the fascia, cellular membrane, a muscles of the perinaum, and bursts through the external skin, (p 144.) Bbod however mentions a fatal instance of abscess in the prostate, in which the patient, alx thirty vears of age, voided his urine every twenty or thirty minutes, complaining of aching pain in the loins; but of no pain any where else. The urine deposited, small quantity of yellow puriform sediment. He said that the symptoms had beg two years ago, and that in the commencement of the disease, the urine had been ting with blood * * * About a month after his admission into the hospital, he was seized vr symptoms of apoplexy, and died in the course of a few hours. * * * An abscess oft size of a large walnut occupied the posterior part of the prostate, and extended into t snace between the bladder and vasa deferentia behind the neck of the bladder /n irregular ulcerated orifice was discovered behind the verumontanum, through vrhi the probe passed at once into the cavity of the abscess.” (p. 146.)] 1807. The treatment of retention of urine from inflammation of t prostate agrees precisely with that of inflammatory retention alreaa described (par. 1795); blood-letting, leeches about the anus, bath soothino- clysters, poultices to the perinaum and the like. If the How urine be not thereby effected, the catheter must be introduced, whici however, can never be done without difficulty and great pain ; becam the swollen gland alters the direction of the urethra, on which aecouv also a catheter with a long beak is required, and sometimes must have laro-e curve (1). If an abscess form in the prostate, the introduction of ti catheter is the only remedy; the abscess is either opened by it, in dou which care must be taken not to make a false passage, or it bursts of itse and the pus escapes with the urine (2). The catheter must remain in bladder till the urine be no longer mixed with pus. Desault {> recommends cleansing injections of barley water at the same time. rri) In reference to the enlargement of the prostate gland from acute mtlammatic. Lawrence (b) says :—“ You should avoid, if possible, the introduction.of'a catibe^ There is a pretty*actively inflamed substance against which, in its introduction,! point of the catheter will necessarily come, and through which it must pass monk r enter the bladder. The introduction of an instrument, under such circumsteuce^nu be exneeted to aggravate the sufferings of the patient at the time; and therefore, you STpTt ? selfto .1.0 iufi.mmu.ion, and enable him to make mater wuh«u employment of an instrument at all, it will be very desirable for you so to da T therefore to antiphlogistic means, with which fomentations, the use of the hip or bath mav be combined ; and do not have recourse to the use of an instrument, u these means fail, and there should be an actual necessity for relieving the pattenif !he danger which the difficulty of evacuating the urine produces. If you come then the introduction of an instrument, you should be aware of the ^rticidar change i urethra, which the swelled state of the prostate produces, llie swelled pr°f*Sf t not diminish the dimensions of the urethra, but it alters the course canal in that part which goes through the gland; it presses the tl together and the swelling of the prostate, the principal part of which is situated be■ a> urethra, that is, between the urethra and rectum, pushes the urethra up towaris It the same time, the enlargement of the prostate in size, an enlargement whichtoK place in all directions, increases the length of this part of the canal. t then produced are, first, an elevation of the urethra, pushed upwards t • f pubes Pan elongation of the canal in its prostatic portion, and a pressing t ge (a) Above cited, p. 229. (6) Lectures in Lancet, 1829, 30, vol. «•421 FROM VARICOSITY OF THE PROSTATE. dik sides of it laterally. The best instrument in this case is a large elastic catheter; indeed, I should observe to yon, whether you employ an elastic or a silver theter in cases of enlarged prostate, you will always find it necessary to use an ^trument of full size, which will pass on much more easily than instruments of small •e. The best instrument is, the catheter made of elastic gum, and you should use • we which are made to retain their curved shape without a stilette. * * * If, however, u should fail in introducing such an instrument, you must have recourse to the silver heter,” and “ the extremity of the instrument should be prolonged, so as to represent >re than a quarter of a circle; * * * a third or a quarter of an inch over t, so as to enable the end of the instrument to rise over the elevated part of the )sthra.” (p. 811.) Brodie advises:—“ If there be a retention of urine, the gum catheter, without a wire stilette, may, in almost every case, be readily passed into the bladder. It is better to > a very small catheter, and to introduce it again, whenever it be necessary to do so, pin to leave it constantly in the urethra and bladder.” (p. 145.) As to the size of the theter in enlarged prostate, under any circumstances I must confess I prefer the ger, as recommended by Lawrence, for the reasons he has assigned, which have en verified by my own experience; and a silver to an elastic catheter, on account of greater firmness, which prevents mischief.—j. r. s.] 2) “ If there be reason to believe,” observes Brodte, “ that abscess is formed, you mid endeavour to procure an external discharge for the matter, in order to prevent bursting into the urethra. If the symptoms described exist, and go on for some time creasing, and you discover a fulness and tenderness of the perinceum, do not wait for y more certain indication of abscess ; but introduce a lancet in the direction indicated the tenderness and swelling. It will often be necessary to pass it quite up to the oulders, or even to the handle, before you reach the abscess. But you may do this lrlessly. There is no danger from any ill consequence from such a puncture. If ' "ere be abscess, you will, by this proceeding, immediately relieve the distress which e patient suffers, at the same time that you prevent further mischief. If, on the other nd, there be no abscess, the puncture does not make the condition of the patient worse n it was before. Indeed, partly from the loss of blood, partly by removing the sion of the soft parts of the perinceum, it is generally useful to the patient, even when ’oes not answer the purpose of allowing the escape of matter.” (p. 146.)] 1808. Swelling of the prostate gland from varicosity of its vessels curs in general, slowly, in old persons after previous hsemorrhoidal jnents, in stoppage of the bowels, after venereal debaucheries, after otypeated claps, with sedentary living and good living, after abuse of heat- fdg drinks, after frequent efforts in voiding the urine and going to stool, i; is always developed slowly. Emptying the bladder becomes more diffi- lt after violent exertion, after heating food and drink and the like. The ollen prostate is felt on introducing the finger into the rectum, but is e from pain, and the patient suffers no pain in the passage of the urine irough the urethra. The varicosity is situated rather in the coverings t ’ the prostate; the substance of the gland itself is therewith sometimes (Pift and spongy, sometimes tense and hard. I 1809. If this disease have any distinct cause, it must be removed. In Sjaieral, taking away blood from the perinceum, clysters of cold water or (i^coction of oak bark with alum, are sufficient. The introduction of the T 'theter is in this case always difficult, and the circumstances above nten- boned {par. 1807) should be always borne in mind. Sometimes a Ivvollen vessel is torn in passing; the catheter, in consequence of which feeding occurs, which gives relief. The inlying of a catheter is here fcj»ary for the purpose of compressing the swollen vessels, and by its pBcompanying irritation to excite their contractile activity. The treatment ■ l«TS *e(^ous> an(l no cure is to be expected under six or eight weeks. I 10. Hardening is the most common diseased change to which the Kirostate gland is subject. It occurs after previous slow inflammation, I 0S cor>nnonly after forty years of age, and earlier if the urethra beRETENTION OF URINE 422 affected, especially in scrofulous subjects and in those who when youn< have indulged in venery; after repressed eruptions on the skin, and as th consequence of gout and the like (1). It always proceeds slowly ; voidanc of the urine becomes difficult, and is sometimes completely stopped. Th prostatic humour is sometimes exceedingly copious and viscid. Th direction of the urethra is changed according as the right, left or middl lobe of the gland is swollen. The hardened prostate is felt by examina tion through the rectum ; the patient has difficulty in going to stool; discharge of mucus-like fluid, an unusual sensation about the rectum afte goino- To stool, as if the bowel were not completely relieved. All th: symptoms described (par. 167o) as belonging to stricture, fiequentl accompany swelling of the prostate (2). . In reference to the secretion of a mucus- or pus-like fluid which may accompany th various diseased conditions of the urinary passages, it may be remarked that the mor mucus-like, thick, pus-like deposit which the urine throws down, and which reman loose at the bottom of the chamber-pot, shows a catarrhal inflammation ot the mucot membrane of the bladder ; the mucus-like deposit which draws out in threads, is elaste like white of egg, and sticks to the bottom of the pot, characterizes disease of the pror tate; purulent deposit, and the prostate gland small, soft and flattened mark its destructio bv suppuration. If on examination the prostate be uninjured, the pus comes probably froi the kidneys (a). The mucus from the prostate is not ammoiiiacal; the mucus froi the bladder rarely appears in any great quantity without containing some earthy part rm “ Chronic inflammation of the prostate gland is, says Astley Cooper (»),. th consequence of age, and not of disease. When this disease produces partial retention < urine it should be considered as a salutary process, for it prevents incontinence of urini which, in old people, would almost constantly take place were it not for this preyentm It makes the urine pass slower than natural, but this, may be excused when it is means of preventing a continual wetting of the clothes.” (p. 239.) Brodie observes “ When the hair becomes gray and scanty, when specks of earth' matter be°in to be deposited in the tunics of the arteries, and when a white zone i formed at the margin of the cornea, at this same period the prostate 1 jjj$ perhaps say invariably, becomes increased in size. This change in the condition prostate takes place slowly, and at first imperceptibly, and the term chronic cnlargomer fs not impmpeUy employed to distinguish" it from the inflammatory attacks to whic the prostate is liable in early life. (p. 151.) The chronic enargementofthep^m maybe said to be a disease of a peculiar kind, having no exact resemblance to what» meet with in any other organ. It may, however in some respects be compared to * chronic enlargement of the thyroid gland, known by the name of brmchocek Likert latter it is generally slow in its progress, and frequently, after having reached a certt point,' if proper treatment be employed, it remains almost statuonary for many year It is on the whole, a rare occurrence for it to terminate in ulceration or a.. - the symptoms to which it gives rise, are, with a few e«*g®n£to be influence which the disease exercises over the functions of the paits in the g h°Although enlarged prostate is specially the disease of adv“c^’j[e’ Cooper says lie has “ known it occasionally occur in very young people, ofthis kind happened in Guy’s Ho.pil.l, . bey stone, in consequence of which he was sounded, and the opeiration of lit ' about to be performed ; the sounding, however, brought on inflammation of fl ,v„‘ptom which terminated in the boy’s death. Upon dissection it was found that the Sj P for which he had been sounded were produced by an enlarged prostate. IP- z''n “I have certainly seen a very few cases of it” (enlarged “ in young persons, but the great majority of those you have to treat for t are past the middle period of life.” _ (p. 813.) pniar(red is tha The part of the prostate gland m general considered as specially - ^ ,rr which John Hunter describes as that “ small portion <tf it which he. a T81' beginning of the urethra, swells forwards like a point into the Madder,“ting to'the mouth of the urethra, which can be seen even when the swelling s no ^ ^ dea, able bv looking upon the mouth of the urethra from the cavity of the bla give 1 body. It sometimes increases so much as to form a tumour (ofjdnch HuNT>g g , two engravings, V. and VII.) projecting into the bladder some inches. (P .. (C) LalleMAND ; above cited, p. 152. (f>) Lectures in Lancet. 1823, - ,FROM CHRONIC ENLARGEMENT OF THE PROSTATE. 423 I this come part which Everard Home has dignified with the name of third lobe of the Estate and claimed the discovery of, without adding anything to what Hunter had , d about it, except that of the five cases he examined, and on which he grounded his I iaim, “the appearance,” he says, “was not exactly the same in any two of them, i) 101 And yet this has got the name of Home’s third lobe, and is so continually i ’ailed in spite of John Hunter’s observation, and the knowledge that the French ana- *: musts have long since been well aware of it under the name trigone. In reality, However, so far as I have had an opportunity of observing, the two principal or side portions of the gland are most commonly enlarged at the same time and in the same abtroportion as this small portion which lies behind.—j. f. s. JJt “The next thing noticed is,” says Asti.ey Cooper, “ that the urine has a particu- iie irlv powerful smell, which arises from its being ammoniated in consequence of some r rine remaining in the bladder after each discharge. * * * The next symptoms &;re pain and numbness in the glans penis; sense of weight and uneasiness in the Werineeum, relieved by pressure with the finger; pain in the back of one or both thighs, i the loins, and at the origin of the sciatic nerves, and in the course of the ureters; the tees are flattened, from the pressure made upon the rectum by the swollen gland, ersons having enlarged prostate for any length of time, generally have, likewise, rolapsus ani and haemorrhoids. * * * The ammoniacal smell of the urine as the disease advances, becomes highly offensive, and at length the urine itself becomes white ;ir milky; this appearance shows that the inflammation has extended to the mucous lembrane of the bladder. If the urine be much retained, it has the appearance feoffee, occasioned by an admixture of blood with it; this leads many practitioners i suppose, for the moment, that the ease is one of stone; but if you question the atient for a few moments, your doubts on this point will be removed.” (p. 240.) “ Upon dissection,” continues Astley Cooper, “ the prostate is found enlarged sorne- } imes laterally; but most frequently the enlargement is in the posterior part, situated in ie middle or third lobe. As the prostate enlarges it is pushed forwards, in conse- uence of which the urethra becomes curved immediately before the apex of the pros- ite; indeed, the coming forward of the prostate causes the urethra almost to double pon itself. The curve thus formed is at the symphysis pubis ; and it is in this situation at the difficulty on passing the catheter in diseased prostate is found. Tracing on the mrse of the urethra, behind the curved part, that canal is seen much enlarged, and the Vwrethra itself is considerably elongated, that is, from an inch and a half to two inches; Igrhich increase of length is behind the pubes, and it is owing to this circumstance that - ou are under the necessity of carrying on the catheter so great a distance after its oint has passed the arch of thepubes. As to the prostate itself, we find that it may icrease to a most enormous size laterally without giving rise to retention of urine; but iat enlargement which occurs posteriorly in the third lobe, frequently occasions itention of urine, for the enlargement is situated immediately behind the orifice of the rethra; thus the urine collecting behind the swelling presses it against the mouth of e urethra, and forms a complete barrier to its passage.” (pp. 241, 42.) “ This tumour,” (of the third lobe,) observes Brodie, “ varies in size from that of an horse bean to that of an orange. When small, it is of a conical form, with the apex ‘ jf the cone projecting into the bladder, and the basis being continued into the rest ( >;f the prostate. When large, the basis is often the narrowest part, and it swells out so fHs to have a pyriform figure towards the bladder. In some instances, by the side fitf that which I have just mentioned, there is another tumour, formed by one of the t literal portions, also projecting into the bladder. The canal of the urethra, where passes through the enlarged prostate, is generally flattened; and when the latter >'i 'i divided transversely, the urethra appears like a slit, rather than like a cylindrical I anal. Not unfrequently the enlargement of the prostate so alters the form of the » rethra, that, instead of pursuing a straight course through the gland, it is inclined first iflo one side and then to the other. You would expect the urethra to be narrow, in Sfyionsequence of the increased bulk of the parts by which it is surrounded; and so it is -'< n many instances; in others, however,, it is actually wider, being dilated into a kind •' f sinus, where it lies in the centre of the prostate. 1 have known such a sinus duo contain two or three ounces of fluid.” (pp. 152, 53.) * (2) Astley Cooper asks:—“ How, when diseased prostate exists, are you to know it ? ’ 'Vhat are the diagnostic signs ? Why, the enlargement laterally may be readily ascer- 1 'ained by introducing the finger into the rectum; but the enlargement of the middle 4 'Obe cannot be so learnt. In what way then ? Why, by the introduction of a catheter ! »r bougie, and the latter is best; it will be found to stop suddenly; you are then 1,1-o introduce a catheter for the purpose of drawing off the water; the instrument will424 TREATMENT OF RETENTION OF URINE be resisted in its common course, and you must depress the handle a good deal, with : view of tilting its point over the enlarged gland ; thus the end of the instrument wil _ a > 1 • 1 1 • J 1. . . 1- t -A n ..1. ^w. rl'R AP/, Ik ♦ 1 , View U1 Lllllllg 1L» [JUllib uvu i/tiv/ “ ? "* he rising perpendicularly, as it jvere, behind the pubes. These, then, are the incaus yc are to employ to obtain a correct diagnosis.” (pp. 242, 43.) r J . r. ... ^ pmctitn ow. „„i. ire io empiuy ire- , “ The symptoms of retention of urine from enlargement of the prostate, are not ver different from those which occur where the retention is the consequence of stricture, bu the termination is different. I never saw,” says Brodie, “ a case in which, under the* circumstances, the bladder had given way, as sometimes happens, where there is a reten tion from stricture; but I am informed that such a ca6e has occurred, and that th bladder ruptured at its fundus is preserved in the Museum of St. Bartholomew’s H<e pital.” (p. 155.)] 1811. The prognosis in this disease is always unfavourable. Onl; in the beginning is there hope of being able to disperse the hardening in advanced cases, the disease may sometimes be diminished, and tin patient’s condition may be rendered tolerable by the inlying of th. catheter. At the first a corresponding antiphlogistic treatment must h employed ; afterwards issues and blisters to the perinaum, rubbing ii volatile liniments with camphor, mercurial ointment, iodine salve, suppo sitories of cicuta and opium', internally, cicuta, meicury, decoctioi of daphne mezereon, uva ursi, and the like, but especially hydiochlorat. of ammonia in increasing doses (a). If the hardening have a definit. cause, the curative means must be directed to it. In introducing tn catheter, the points already mentioned (par. 1807) must be considered If an elastic catheter be left in, it does not retain its pioper cuive afte the removal of the stilette, and the urine escapes; it is better, therefore to use those elastic catheters, which have a permanent curve. [As to the treatment of enlarged prostate, Astley Cooper says “ Very little can b effected here by medicine; it is a disease over which medicines have but very Iittl influence. You may, however, give the oxymuriate of mercury in very small quan tities, for I believe I have seen it, beneficial. But this is the treatment only for tL enlargement of the gland. * * * When no urine whatever can be passed, and whei there is great pain at the neck of the bladder,” he recommends to “ take blood from tb arm, apply leeches to the perinceum, administer purgatives, and put the patient in t warm bath. If these means should succeed in procuring relief, the best medicine ttal can afterwards be given for the purpose of preventing a return of the retention, and a the same time of lessening the inconvenience which sometimes attends the complaint, i composed of fifteen drops of the liquor potassce, five drops of balscopaib., and an ounce mi a half of mist, camph. If you give fifteen or twenty drops of the balsam it then produce a stimulating effect, and does harm ; administer it in the quantity just mentioned, in cot junction with the other medicines, to which may be added two drams of muc. gum. oca * * * Other medicines, as the carbonates of soda and magnesia, the liquor potass., wnt opium, are occasionally given, but as the latter produces costiveness it is improp. The first medicine will be found the best; it will afford considerable relief, which is al that you can expect, for you must not dream of making a cure. (pp. -43, 4., Lawrence says “ In the case of this chronic enlargement of the prostate, *e not much power of relieving the patient by producing any great reduction of t e . part. * * * By attention, however, to diet, careful attention to the state of the . and bowels, by a course of mild alterative and aperient medicines, we can keep patient perhaps in a tolerably healthy state. Attempts have been made sonie imef^ reduce this enlargement by seton or issue on the penneeum or upper part of the tin n, it is an inconvenient course of proceeding, and one to which patients are no t0 “’when from any cause the vessels of the prostate are more than usually turgid wid blood,” says Brodie, “ the quantity may be diminished, and thus a red,I^t'”V. to a certain extent, may be effected. It is with this view that we r<*°™FV all Pper- blood-letting, the exhibition of gentle purgatives, a moderate dieted, a *^ol feet rest in the horizontal posture. But we are not acquainted with an} treatment which is capable of restoring the gland to its original condition (P- ^ (n't Fisohkb; in Rust’s Magnzin, vol. xi. See also Home, Gland , i. , im, STiZdot p. 35* 1818. 8yo.425 FROM CHRONIC ENLARGEMENT OF THE PROSTATE. “ The treatment of retention of urine from diseased prostate,” observes Brodte, “ is 10 of the most important subjects in Surgery. The patient suffers miserably ; his life at stake; he lives or dies according to the skill which you are able to exercise in his „our, The case is altogether different from one of retention of urine from stricture, ugies are of no service; even if you pass one into the bladder, no urine follows ; the i mrts collapse and close as the bougie is withdrawn.” (p. 174.) Astley Cooper lays down that when “ called upon to relieve retention from enlarged estate, by the introduction of a catheter, the instrument should be fourteen inches in e«th, and a quarter of an inch in diameter. In consequence of the pressure within, broad instrument will answer better than a narrow one, for being bulbous at the end will readily ride over the enlargement. When introducing the catheter, you will meet ith no difficulty' until you reach the curve which the enlargement of the gland has •oduced in the urethra; the handle of the instrument is to be here slightly raised, for e purpose of insinuating the point through the curved part. Having passed this you e then to depress the handle completely between the thighs, so as to occasion the point r* the instrument immediately to rise perpendicularly above the pubes. * * * This ill cause the point to enter the bladder between the pubes and enlarged, lobe. * * * If it be deemed requisite to leave the catheter in the bladder, I should prefer,” says ooper, “ one of pewter rather than elastic gum, for it can be curved down before the rotum, and by plugging up the end, the patient may move about as he likes, and at any ne he wishes can expel his urine. * * * The pewter catheter should be quite new, d ought not to be worn for a longer period than a fortnight, for the urine acts upon the etal, renders it brittle, and may probably cause the instrument to snap, if the time be bended beyond what I have stated. If there be need of puncturing the bladder for larged prostate, it must be done above the pubes ; but it never need be attempted at all you can perform your duty.” (p. 243-45.) “ In instances where the bladder does not evacuate its contents completely, where ere is a constant accumulation of urine within it, the course you have to pursue,” ys Lawrence, “ is to introduce the catheter regularly once or twice in the four-and- I'enty hours, so as to draw off the stale urine, and to give the bladder the opportunity • recovering its power of contraction; and after following this up for some time, per- ps two or three weeks, you generally find that the evil is removed, and that the patient covers the power of completely emptying the bladder. * * * It is necessary that e catheter should be longer than that which is employed under ordinary circumstances; ve it the length, perhaps, of fourteen inches, curved as already stated, and always use catheter of full size. * * * In such cases where the smallest catheter could not be troduced, I have repeatedly succeeded in introducing an instrument of this size with e greatest ease.” (p. 813.) Brodie “ rarely uses any but a gum catheter. It gives you rather more trouble to urn the use of the gum catheter, and to become dexterous in the management of it, than does to learn the use of the silver catheter. When, however, you have once become miliar with the gum catheter, you will generally prefer it to the other ; and there is ways this advantage in it, that when you have succeeded in introducing it into the adder, it may, if necessary, be allowed to remain there. A gum catheter may be retained the urethra and bladder with very little inconvenience to the patient, which is not the se with a silver catheter.” (p. 175.) if Brodie uses, as did Home, the gum catheter without a wire, as a flexible, or with a $j»ire as an inflexible iustrument; and directs that it should not be mounted’on a small E< xihle straight wire, but on a strong iron stilette, having the curve of a silver B MteJj He beglns Wlth PassinS a sum catheter without a stilette; if it will enter « le bladder, so much the better ; it gives no pain, does not lacerate the urethra, nor pro- r ■ .hemorrhage; it may do all that is required, it can do no harm, even in a t Dugh hand; failure will not render it more difficult to pass another instrument In J.imcult cases indeed it will not succeed, and then the catheter with the iron stilette * = : betnsecL “Y°u ought ,n.ot, t0 use a catheter so large as to give pain ; but for the »st part you will find one which is large enough to fill the urethra, without stretching m°re eas>'of introduction than a smaller one, which approaches to a pointed ZCla T)I e extremity of it is liable to become entangled in the tumor of ►K.vious 1-JwiStl Ctt! 0U?ht ? ,be. considerably curved; the reason of this is ■ithafiXt uT b,e,a[. T,rld’ ’0 introducing the catheter, that it is to be used * erlK L l S 10.uUl be held’ as 11 were> toosdy with the fingers. It will then, r- great measure, find its own wav — : i • Misistnnna if... .. „ , . J in iMuui incrc is me lensi t Uictmv ‘ n,i u°U g.ra8i? 11 finn'y> 11 call only go where you direct it, and it is likely to I’ 1 lacerate the membrane of the urethra, and the substance of the prostate,TREATMENT OF RETENTION OF URINE 426 and to make a false passage instead of entering the bladder. [Most excellent direction: and cannot be too closely followed.—.r. f. s.] I generally find,” continues Bitooii uu cannot ue too cioseiy loiiuwcu.—j. *. o.j » gcuciauj uuu, wuuuura •• that I introduce the catheter best by keeping the handle of it close to the left groin oi the patient I pass it as far as possible in this position; then I bring the hand! forwards, nearly at a right angle to the pubes, and not elevating it towards th. navel. The next thing is to depress the handle, which is to be done gently and slowly by placing a single finger on it and pressing it downwards towards the space betweei the thighs. In depressing the handle, you generally find the point of the catheter slid into the bladder. Sometimes, however, this does not happen until you withdraw th *K^ ant rtf' rlrtiiifr this, thp introduction of the catheter is comnleted « into tne oiaaaer. sometimes, now ever, mis uui uuui jvu nuuuiaw mi stilette; and in the act of doing this, the introduction of the catheter is completed. * (p. 177.) “ I do not mean to lay it down absolutely as a rule, that you should allow th: *■« T nnvtain that it. i<; nrndont. to do so in the exeat maioritv n ^p, I//.; I ao not mean to lay it uuwu auaoiutcij as a tuic, mat juu m catheter to remain, but I am certain that it is prudent to do so in the great majority o cases. If you remove it, so abundant is the flow of urine which immediately take place from the kidneys, that you will find the bladder again loaded, and requiring th re-introduction of the catheter within five or six, perhaps even within three o four hours. It will be necessary to use the catheter again after another short interval and it will often happen, when there has been no difficulty in the first introduction of ii that there is considerable difficulty afterwards. You avoid all this by leaving th catheter in the bladder; and there is another advantage in this mode of proceeding; The prostate is kept in a state of more complete repose, and in one much mor favourable to recovery, so far as recovery can take place, that it would be in, if irritatet by repeated introductions of tbe instrument.” (p. 180.) “You will very rarely fail, b; dexterous management, to introduce the catheter, but you may fail, nevertheless in some instances. What is to be done under these circumstances? * r * koumay puncture the bladder above the pubes, or you may proceed thus ; When all your effort to introduce the catheter have been unavailing; when you feel the point pressing against the tumor of the prostate, and unable to pass over it, apply some force to th instrument at the same time that you depress the handle. It will generally penetrate through the prostate, enter the bladder by an artificial opening, and relieve the patient and, of course, will continue to relieve him, if you allow it to remain in the bladaeM This mode of proceeding has been strongly recommended by some very good Surgeons and I am not aware that it is attended with danger, although it may not be withou its disadvantages. There is reason to believe, that in some cases in which this tut been done, the natural orifice of the urethra has become so closed, that the patient couw never void a drop of urine by his own efforts, being compelled to rely wholly 01 the catheter ever after. Sir Everard Home has published the history of a case o this kind, which was attended by Mr. Hunter and himself.” (pp. 181, 82.) With regard to the question of introducing the catheter twice or thrice a day, ot after having introduced it, to leave it there, 1 must confess I prefer the former, and tn use of a large silver catheter; occasionally, it is true, there is some difficulty, buh general, so far as my experience has proved, the catheter, after having been pa few times, enters the bladder as readily as a sword into its sheath. On the o‘her I have found that leaving the catheter in for a time, is liable to render the b adde. irritable; and that if at the end of a week or ten days, it be withdrawn, it is almost invariably found encrusted, more or less, with calcareous matter, which often rem withdrawal difficult, and generally causes much pain, if not further mischief, 0J , roughness.—J. F. S.l . , 1812. If in strictures of the urethra, complete retention be proaow" either by the use of heating drinks or other excess, or by the progress o disease itself, the most proper treatment is to introduce a fine "ax bougvy which when its point has got into the opening of the stricture, is held, as is distinctly shown in the vain attempts to draw it back. as it will not move on without using violence, it must not be io_ farther, but allowed to remain, till a violent disposition to ma e ' ^ come on, when it must be withdrawn, and the urine generally flow out itj Some persons immediately introduce a bougie,^ a thin stream, oome persona niiuiDum^.; *■* ~~~ - ^ • • f generally passes further, and may remain till the urging to void t : comes on. At the same time, according to circumstances,may be i 1 * ^ blood-letting, leeches to the anus and perinceum, baths, eoouung; y ^ with opium and the like. After repeated introduction of the ^ bj general a thin elastic catheter may be passed into the bladd427 FROM STRICTURE OF THE URETHRA. . . hese means the clanger of the retention be removed, then the treatment ki f the stricture must be commenced according to the former rules. Kin Amussat (a) recommends the employment of forcing injections in cases of retention ai'f urine dependent on stricture. He introduces a flexible cathether, without a beak, town to the obstruction, compresses the penis, and screws on to the end of the catheter *'■ gum-elastic bottle, by which fluid can be injected and drawn out again. Lallemand dlnd Begin (6) think it must not be forgotten that forced injections may be useful, if \ Employed with moderation and prudence, and after the use of antiphlogistics and ttempts to introduce bougies have been fruitless; but that in such case care must e taken not to use too great violence, for if a plug of mucus be the only or principal K ause of retention, it will give way without any violent efforts, and if the parts be i > Hated by separating them, the power exercised in their contraction being equally on i 11 parts of the urethra, which the fluid fills, it will produce severe pain and increase B ie inflammation; or what is worse, may find some part of the canal which is more ,-iable and weak, and tear it. 1 [The treatment which a stricture producing retention of urine, will admit of depends rincipally on the degree of distension of the bladder, and the irritability of the patient, ittempts should always be made to introduce the catheter both before and after drawing lood quickly from the arm, and placing the patient in a warm bath, so as to induce intness. The catheter should be used with great care and tenderness, to avoid the irmation of false passages, which are too frequently made in striving to pass an instru- leut on these occasions. If the catheter cannot be got in, and the symptoms be urgent, c will be advisable to open the urethra from the perinceum, and if there be a stricture, > cut through it, so that the cure of the wound and of the stricture may go on together, it is better to resort to this practice early, if the retention be complete, rather than to ait till the urethra burst behind the stricture, and extravasation of urine take place ; as v so doing the wound heals nearly as after the operation for stone, without much diffi- S1« ulty, and the patient is saved from the trouble and danger of sloughing of the cellular ssue and urinary abscesses. If, on the contrary, the symptoms be not urgent, and the etention have not existed many hours, it is advisable to give tincture of muriated iron i sufficient quantity to produce nausea, by which sometimes, the spasm, which almost ivariably accompanies a stricture with retention, is relieved, and the patient passes his .aflater. Purging also of watery stools is also very often eflicient in relieving retention, d Jr which purpose a couple of drams of sulphate of magnesia, with fifteeen or twenty * i rops of tartarized antimonial wine, with mint water, may be given every two or three ■ f'ars, till the medicine operate freely, and then, generally, the water begins to pass. It Cutting into the urethra, however, should never be deferred when the retention is not, edler a few hours, relieved, either by these means, or by the catheter.—J. F, S.] 1813. If by these means no evacuation of the urine can be obtained, fund the symptoms become urgent, then puncture of the bladder is required. ! mr this purpose, several writers have recommended breaking through the 1 tricture, that is, with a silver conical pointed catheter to penetrate forcibly through the stricture into the bladder, to allow it to remain there several ,days, and then after a certain time, to introduce an elastic catheter for [•fhe purpose of keeping open the canal of the urethra. This proceeding, il nhich is especially founded on Desault’s observations and particularly ^defended by Boyer, is unquestionably, even in the ablest hands, most dtughly dangerous, as tearing the urethra, false passages, perforation of Mhe bladder, severe pain and inflammatory symptoms so easily follow it. Lhe firmer the stricture and the greater its extension, the earlier are these consequences to be dreaded. Only in strictures of slight extent, which |rave not been thickened and increased by frequently repeated inflamma- •on from previous attempts with bougies or caustic, does this method seem applicable. Even in these cases, the use of a conical, pointed sound, ¥> mi easily produce the above-mentioned symptoms, and the use of a thick 1'iound with a rounded end, as proposed by Mayor, is still the most S4^iao?livS G“n^ra'es lie NTcilecine, vol. ix. p. i oil vi p."^i 182K.DIE; J°Urnal de (/;) Diet ion naire tie Medecine et de Chirurgie pratiques, vol. xiv. p. 344.CUTTING INTO THE PEIIINJEUM. 428 preferable, as being accompanied with much less danger of forming falx passages and tearing the urethra. Under all other circumstances, if tin symptoms be pressing, puncture of the bladder deserves undoubted pre- ference. Upon breaking through the stricture, the following may be compared Desault above cited, p. 244.—Roux, Relation d’un Voyage fait a Londres, etc., p. 314. 1815— Boyer, Traite des Maladies Chirurgicales, vol. ix. p. 232.—Cross, Sketches of thri Medical Schools of Paris.—Charles Bell, above cited, p. 148.—Ducamp, above cited, p. 79.—Mayor, Sur le Cathe'terisme simple et force', etc. Paris, 1836. Secon... Edition.—A. Vidal de Cassis, Lettre chirurgicale a M. Mayor. Paris, 1836- Mayor, Sur le Catheterisme, en reponse a une Lettre chirurgicale de M. Vidal. Pari; et Geneve, 1836.—Principes fondamentaux du Catheterisme ; in Gazette Me'dicale vol. vii. p. 353. 1839. Of Cutting into the Urethra in the Perinccum. In retention of urine caused by stricture Eckstrom (a) has proposed a less dan gerous method of effecting puncture of the bladder, and has pursued it with happy results. After the patient has been placed as in the operation for the stone, a gmn- elastic catheter is carried down to the stricture, and held firmly by an assistant, who a the same time, when the stricture is behind the scrotum, as is usually the case, lifts th< scrotum up and stretches the skin of the perinaum. The Surgeon, with a pointed bistoury then makes, nearly the length of the raphe, and in the direction given by the sound, a cu an inch and a half long through the skin, lays bare the urethra, that the course ofthtf sound and its extremity can be traced. The patient is then desired to strain for the purpost of making water, by doing which, the urethra behind the stricture is distended and harmi a cutis now made into the urethra towards the sound, and the opening thus produced i enlarged to and through the stricture and sometimes behind it. The point of the fore' finger of the left hand must never for a moment during this operation leave the point o the knife, but must serve as a director. The urine now springs out with violence, am the bladder is emptied ; but if this do not readily happen, on account of the palsy o the organ from distension, a female catheter must be introduced into the wound, by the; aid of which, the tapping is effected. If no severe symptoms of inflammation oi< irritation exist, which however, is very commonly the case, a common silver catbetei No 6 is to be introduced into the bladder. When its extremity readies the wound: that is the spot where the stricture was, it must be continued deeper, the finger m tin wound' giving it the proper direction, so that it may not slip from the urethra, but gtj directlv into the bladder. When this has been once effected, and the instrument ha. Jeen left L the bladder two to four hours, there is no fear of the least difficulty in W re-introduction, and a flexible catheter of the same size may be used instead of the former, the wound is bound up with lint, or a compress, dipped in cold «ter> » ^ and it usually heals quickly. For the purpose of getting rid of theexistmgstT.cture. catheters of large size must soon be resorted to, but there must not be too ' especially before the wound has healed. On the other hand, should there be tory symptoms present, the introduction of the catheter must be stayed, in order not t increase the irritation. The wound in the perinaum keeps open bj the escape o urine, and suppurates more or less. Afterwards, the above treatment must ployed (1). ,, , • Jameson’s (6) treatment also resembles this. _itj, Lallemand and Begin (c) object to this operation the difficulty of find.ng wim certainty and cutting through the urethra behind the bulb, especially in flit P*1-*?”*' • . the uncertainty of the true condition of the canal of the urethra, and of the point behind which it must be opened. ... • fnr lYU) I leave Eciistrom’s description of the mode of cutting into the pertiwn retention of urine, just as Chelics has given it, for it cannot be better described, must deprive him of the credit of having proposed this mode of treatment. 1 o nij o knowledge, it has been for more than thirty years the common prachce.excephngAh^ a silver instead of an elastic catheter is first introduced down to the strictur fcti,05€ in St Thomas’s and Guy’s Hospitals, and among the Surgeons brought P in st. ltwST„;;« snent with us some twenty-five ye*^ lomas’s ana Uuy s nospitais, anu among five rears schools. In the many months which Eckstrom spent with us some twei y ) the since, be must have seen this ecr, operation perfonned again and_n«n ^ “ Froriep’s Notizen, vol* xviii. p. 155. 1827. JO Medical Recorder, vol. vii. I’^Ateve Cite.l,r. 3* p. 329.—Lkgsr; in Ischuria Peri nasi. Paris, l/«8. C . Dissert, de l’amcentcsi l retlir*INTRODUCTION OF THE CATHETER. 429 ■precise way in which he describes it; and it was then so old, that no one, that I am • ware, laid any particular claim to the discovery of it. He must not, therefore, run • way with the credit of having proposed not only the best, but the only operation for ■eteution of urine which ought to be performed, with the single exception of retention rom enlarged prostate, in which, if an operation for retention be ever required, that ibove the pubes must be performed.—J. F. S.] Of the Catheter and its Introduction. 1814. The catheter is a cylindrical tube of different thickness, straight- ess and curve, corresponding to the extent and curve of the urethra. It lay be either firm or flexible ; in the former case it is best to be made of fiver, and in the latter, of elastic gum or caoutchouc. The length of the atheter is different; for adult women six, and for young females five iches is sufficient; for adult men from ten to eleven, and the several leriods of boyhood from five to seven inches. The thickness also varies ; )r women two lines, for girls a line and a half, for men two and a half nes, and for younger males a line and a half. The front third of a small atheter is slightly curved, and corresponds to the segment of a circle f which the diameter is six inches (1) ; the other parts of the catheter are raight, and its upper end is provided with a ring on each side- The emale catheter is only slightly curved at its front extremity. The front ad of the instrument is rounded, and has on either side a pretty large nd well rounded hole. The walls of the catheter should not be very fin, and its surface should be well smoothed and polished (2). All catheters lould be furnished with a stilette fitting into their cavity, and in elastic itheters it is best that this should be made of iron. 1A large catheter is in general more easy of introduction than a small one, because properly distends the walls of the urethra, and is not so easily caught in its folds as a nailer one. In cases, however, where considerable obstruction has to be overcome, as i stricture, a small catheter is passed more easily. One oval opening on the side ‘ the front end of the instrument is better than several smaller ones, or than two i opposite sides; the little holes being easily stopped up in the former, whilst in the tter the necessary strength of the instrument is interfered with. The practice closing the open end of the catheter with a round plug attached to the stilette unnecessary. The curve, already directed, of the front third of the instrument, is the •ost proper; the Surgeon must, however, be provided with catheters of different #rves, which are often necessary on account of the particular seat of the obstacle, s lastic silver catheters are useless. m Elastic catheters, with a permanent curve, so that they can be introduced without a 1 *lette, are in many instances advisable. I double S (shaped) curved catheter of Petit is of no value. SDBerton (a) recommends the use of catheters, one having a curve at an inch and v*other at an inch and a half from its tip, so that the lengthening of the axis of the o? the instrument makes, with the prolonged axis of its vesical extremity an gie, in the former of from 9° to 10°, and in the latter of from 14° to 15° These ►4<rves do not exceed the smallest diameter of the urethra, which varies between three Straight catheters were already known to the ancients, as proved by those which have tn (lug up at Pompeii; they were but very little curved (6). KStiih® f° FA“IUrCIUS’ RAMEAU> SlETAUD; Santarelli, and Cassus used Cl Z men: recommended, in 1812, straight sounds in his r^ Civi ,! , C,rUAsh'ng St°neST; *utv of]ate they been more particularly advised the lAi'IU?,r 11 18 therefore remarkable that Fournier (c) should have f i,, the priority of discovery of straight sounds, because he has used them since tu G6 Zwzrf si&n' ral63 M‘!<k‘einet vol. x '* .(&) Cahsus, \/ed. Operat., vol. i. pi. iij. f, ]. (c) Do l’Emploi de Litliotritie, Sondes droites. etc. Paris, 1829.INTRODUCTION 430 f(I) I prefer the catheter with a very open curve, indeed with the point thrown ou rather beyond the quadrant of the circle, as recommended by Chelius, so as to forn with the stem, a curve represented by the long quadrant of an oval, of which the loiq diameter is double that of the short one. Most Surgeons have a peculiar curve of thei own, and those who have much practice in passing a catheter, soon find out tha with which they are most dexterous. f‘D The thickness of the walls of the catheter is a matter of great importance because unless sufficiently stout they are continually broken in the Surgeon s alteratioi of the curve to suit the particular case which is often requisite; and because, in passim the instrument, if it meet with much obstacle it is liable to be broken in the urethra, o even in the bladder. Catheters, as commonly made, are far too slight.—J. b. b.J 1815 The introduction of a catheter ( Catlieterismus, Lat.; Einfuhruiu des Katheters, Germ. ; Catheterisme, Fr.) is an operation requiring dexte rity and practice, and is not unfrequently accompanied with very grea difficulty It is best divided into three stages. In the first stage, thi catheter passes through that part of the urethra contained in the spongv body The Surgeon grasps the penis behind the glans, with the thuml and forefinger of the left hand, without compressing the urethra. With the thumb, the fore and middle finger of the right hand he holds thti unoer end of the catheter smeared with oil or lard, and introduces it point, whilst the handle is towards the navel, into the opening of* urethra, and then drawing the penis up with the left hand, he pushes lh* catheter down towards the perinceum. In the second stage, in which th< instrument passes through the membranous part of the urethra, when the beak of the catheter has got beneath the arch of the pubes, thes- is let sro, and the handle of the instrument being sunk slowly, and but i little, ~the catheter is now again pushed somewhat forwardsandu of6thiTbladder,’ is the inclination towards the thigljs Frst and™ the”catheter pushed slowly forwards into the bladder. W lien tb< beak has entered the orifice of the bladder, the handle of the catheter i- at last sunk completely between the thighs. It is most convenient for mtfentTlie onhis back during the introduction of the catheter, but h C e ther sit or stand ; and, not unfrequently, it is more ruud.ly ’ P-* hr one posture than the other. The elastic catheter, properly cursed may be used either with,or without the iron stnette. . bs Iii the so called tour de mahre the handle of the and with its convexity upwards, introduced into the urethr . turo, am reached the pubes, the handle is carried round towar s ' th ‘ catheter must then sunk. This handling is objectionable. In very Stout persons t at first, be introduced somewhat on one side. f . . t0 lg07 aw [For other observations in regard to passing the catheter, le e P nar 1811, and their notes.—J. F. S.] , *l.rM 1 1816. The introduction of the straight catheter requires the sai ^ stasres as have been just described. The patient must kneel on the i ^ the bed, with his thighs widely separated, mUi Ae uppw I ,f,L. t the bed, with his thighs widely separate, a..u « y , . th( body bent forwards, or he may stand or sit upon the edge o lef same posture. The operator sits or kneels before him, and wit, elbow upon the knee of the same side, grasps both ^*0/:'tJduceswi,l his left hand supine, draws it towards him horizontally an ^ ^ Q drill his left hand supine, draws 11 ...... with a drill the right hand a straight catheter of proper size, carrying he tbel ing motion directly horizontal till it reach the arch of with th< draws the penis still more forwards, and sinks it to0 dg th< catheter, till it has made a right angie without inc mmg * The patient then bows himself consideramy perinceum.431 OF THE CATHETER. niliat the urethra anti neck of the bladder are brought into a line, and the Catheter instead of following the upper wall of the urethra slips into the a ladder.—(Moulin) (a). •ioi. According to Amcssat’s plan (6), the Surgeon, standing on the Tight side or between “e legs of the patient sitting on the edge of a bed, with his feet on two chairs, draws e penis down with the left hand, till it be parallel with the thighs, introduces the raight catheter with the right hand into the urethra, and readily up to the pubic ch; he then draws the penis still more down, and holds the beak of the catheter rected upwards, which readily passes through the membranous part to the prostate, xq the prostate be healthy, the hand only is usually sunk a little more, and the point of the ,aastrument directed upwards to reach the bladder. If on the other hand the prostate £4 diseased, the operation is more difficult, and no positive rules can be given. It, ,e iwever, seems in general to be more advisable not to sink the hand till the instrument e ach about the middle of the prostate; the point of the instrument also must be > deavoured to he carried on upon the upper wall of the urethra.—(Civiaee.) '1 1817. The introduction of the catheter must always be performed with rt e greatest caution and tenderness; violence may cause severe inflam- it< ation, tearing the urethra, false passages, and great bleeding, i; The obstacles to the passage of the instrument are very various. If * e handle of the instrument be sunk too quickly, its beak strikes against fit e pubic bones, and a firm resistance is felt: it must then be drawn back, nc id introduced rather deeper before the handle is again sunk. In difficult i , ises, it may be ascertained by the finger passed into the rectum, whether [ft e catheter be beneath the pubic bones. If the instrument be introduced /do low, or its beak be found in a wrong direction, when it either pushes M e membranous part into a blind sac, or thrusts against a fold of the a ternal membrane of the urethra, it must be drawn a little back, the ring a i the right side of the handle attentively observed, and the catheter pushed itl rwards in the proper direction. The forefinger of the left hand passed ) the rectum can sustain the proper direction of the instrument. The >u itrance of the catheter is often opposed by spasm, or by swelling of the talustate. In the former case the catheter is to be held quietly, the V) rrinceum rubbed, and then the instrument pressed forward in the proper dr rection. In swelling of the prostate, the method to be adopted has * ‘er> already described (par. 1807.) Elastic catheters, when stopped by day obstacle, will often pass, if the iron stilette be withdrawn about an i ;ch,and the catheter then pushed forwards. In strictures of the urethra, catheter may sometimes be passed, if a bougie have been previously introduced, and allowed to remain some hours. In difficult cases catheters different sizes must be used, 1818. When the catheter has entered the bladder it is known by its ntee motion, by the direction of its handle, which sinks between the thighs, vtid by the flow of the urine, when the stilette is withdrawn. If the flow '(t prevented by thick mucus or clots of blood, which get into the holes or < to the canal of the instrument, the obstacle must be removed by injecting lukewarm water, or by introducing the stilette, or the water must be i-awn off by a syringe attached to the outer end of the catheter. In paralytic retention, pressure upon the lower part of the belly is often picessary to empty the bladder completely. If there be much difficulty in introducing the catheter, it is best to let * remain 5 ds aperture may be plugged, and it may be fastened by a ivl da n R,',cn‘inrf d’Ur‘nc W P. Eo°t, Divert, du Cathetcrisme exerce : P^,,1^.Par avec la Sonde droite. Stra,b„ 1825. 4to.432 PUNCTURING double bandage and circles of sticking plaster around the ■penis. T urine must be allowed to escape every three or four hours; and every t j or seven days a fresh one introduced, so that it may not get too mu. j softened and encrusted. If the patient cannot bear the inlying of t catheter, it must be introduced as often as needful. If a stiff elastic or silver catheter remain in very long, or if the urethra be shor > than usual, its beak may gradually penetrate the hinder upper wall of the bladdi and. cause fatal peritonitis. In this case the urine begins to escape after five or i days or it escapes between the urethra and catheter, and symptoms of peritonitis ari. To prevent this the catheter must be carefully fastened, not too closely, so that it not penetrate more deeply than that the urine may escape by its side openings. T. may be easily managed, if whilst the urine flows, the catheter be pushed a few lines ! and carefully fastened at the moment it ceases to flow.—(Lallemand) (a). 1819. The introduction of the catheter in the female is much mo easy than in the male. The patient being laid on her back, and h thighs somewhat separated, the forefinger of the right hand, with t catheter upon its volar surface, is passed between the labia towar., the orifice of the urethra, which is distinctly felt with its tip as .• aperture surrounded with a little puffy edge, and into it the cathel i is passed. If it cannot be managed in this way, the parts must exposed so that the orifice of the urethra may be brought into view. OF PUNCTURING THE BLADDER. 1820. When in consequence of retention of urine, the bladder is greatly distended, that dangerous results, as mortification, tearing of t bladder, or extravasation of urine, are to be dreaded, and the voidance the urine cannot be effected by the natural passage, there remains nooth means of safety for the patient than emptying the bladder by artific: means, or puncturing the bladder, (Paracentesis Vesicce, LaL; last stick Germ.; Ponction de la Vessie, Fr.,) as it is called. Phis opei tion ’is rarely necessary, if the introduction of wax or catgut bougie elastic catheters, and a mode of treatment corresponding to the charact of the retention, have been carefully pursued. It is, however, bad p tice to dispense with this operation, by trusting to the violent introduce of the catheter, in cases of insurmountable obstacles in the urethra. rua Hiring the bladder is not so dangerous an operation as by many suppose- its danger is only much increased when it has been too long delaxu • 1821. Puncture of the bladder may be performed in three ways: Jtr.< above the pubes; second, through the rectum, and in women, througn vagina; third, through the perinamm. 1822. In puncturing the bladder above the pubes, the patien placed in a half sitting posture in bed. The hair of the pubes .a been removed, an assistant fixes the bladder with both hands, an in the mesial line, corresponding to the linea alba. 1 he burgeon pn nail of the forefinger of his left hand upon the upper edge of tlie P symphysis; holds with the whole right hand a somewhat cur'e‘ , rant’s) trocar, lays his forefinger on its convex sy^ce, an 1 ^ ] with the concavity downwards, close above the nail of the h <■ ^ , the white line, and thrusts it through the walls of the belly m o e . When the trocar has penetrated from two and a halt t tu deep, according to the thickness of the walls, the operator grasp ^ ^ I (a) Perforation <le la Vessie par les Sondes fixes; in Revue Medicale. vol.ix., p. 299- 1THE BLADDER. 433 U vith the fingers of the left hand, and draws the stilette out with the ight. The urine now escapes by the tube, and being assisted by pres- u ure on the belly, is gradually discharged. In order to prevent the j harp edge of the instrument injuring or irritating the walls of the (ladder as it contracts, another silver tube with a blunt end is to be introduced through it, through the side openings of which the urine can : scape ; its other end is furnished with a stay (aj. For fixing the inner jj nbe, a cleft compress is to be so applied, that the tube may lie in its left. The vertical part of a T bandage is to be crossed before and h ehind the tube and fastened to the girdle part. The outer tube must be d xed by bandages, drawn through the openings in its outer end, to the [- irdle-piece of a T bandage. To prevent the inner tube drawing back, m ipes must be introduced through its rings, and attached to the openings f the outer tube. The direction to thrust in the trocar an inch to an inch and a half above the pubic b' 'mphysis rests on the notion that the bladder, in its ascent above the symphysis, is w ‘parated from the hind wall of the belly. However, in puncturing high, the danger ;c f wounding the peritonaum is greater, and the bladder may more easily slip away, J hen it contracts, after the urine has been voided. In very stout persons, if the’ ■ladder be not very full, it may be proper to make a previous cut of an inch and a ilf long through the coverings in the same place above the pubic symphysis, in the 4 hite line, till the bladder can be distinctly felt with the finger. * The curve of the trocar should be a segment of a circle of eight inches diameter 'r Jesault) ; its length must vary according to the bulk of the body, but should not be 8; 5S than five inches. i It is objectionable to introduce a second tube, with a rounded end, or a flexible S' •t‘leter, through the first, and to withdraw it, as the urine will escape by the side of ‘L e smaller tube. ■S 1823. After the operation, the urine must be discharged by the tube as ii ten as is necessary. If inflammatory symptoms arise or continue, corre- u 'onding remedies must be employed. Towards the seventh day, the tubes § ust be removed to be cleaned. The inner tube must be first withdrawn, » id then a curved steel cylinder having been introduced into the bladder’ d rough the canula of the trocar, the canula must be drawn over it, and’ t ter having been cleansed, must be returned upon it. I During the after-treatment, attempts must be made in every possible iy to restore the natural passage for the urine. When this can be | ected, and a flexible catheter have been introduced into the bladder the I la ^ withdrawn; and then, whilst the surrounding coverings’are i ! a Jack with one hand, the opening is to be covered with sticking plaster, it it will not close, must be frequently touched with lunar caustic. ! bll bw J^ih tlUblSC<7e 'Lalways necessary for a long while, because the union of a theblnd surface of the abdominal muscles is frequently not suffi- hesL vvn? a considerable time. A previous cut through the covering prevents this ist be thrust d^recfivTh’ the recPemneof thenatural passage is impossible, the trocar •charged £ fren LSr0^g n coverings, the tubes safely fastened, and the urine ;hth day and ti l ! / lhe tUbe’ whicb raust not be changed before the ionb£en^thfbTadTerZna FTSt T\the patient kept <luiet’ and when y be introduZd SI Z i ?bdominal muscles has taken place, an elastic catheter (luced into thZ wanZcf Zb ndfi S.CHREGER(6) proposes, by means of loops in- o contact with the «lil?lb fitr’ byithe sldes ot the trocar tube, to bring them wci wmi the walls of the belly, and encourage their union. i', ?*"0> GP®rationen. vol. iii. pt. ii. pi. i. The mode of proceedine. thouah with J V«L. II. proceedine thnnai, w th . 0h)ect, lsdirected by Deschamps, Traitehistorique V oceeaing, though with a different et dogmatique de la TaiUe, vol. iv. pi. viii. (4) Above cited, p. 231. 2 F434 PUNCTURING THE BLADDER, THROUGH THE RECTUM; Upon puncturing the bladder above the pubic symphysis, the following works m be consulted:— Mery ; in Histoire de l’Academie des Sciences. 1701, p. 378. Bonn, above cited. Mursinna, Neue medic.-chirnrg. Beobachtungen, p. 391. Berlin, 1796. Palletta, Della Punctura della Vesica orinaria; in Giorn. di Venezio, vol. ix. p. 2 | Desault, CEuvres Chirurgicales, vol. iii. p. 317. Meyer, Dissert, de Paracentesi Vesica;. Urlang., 1798. 4to. Soemmering, above cited, p. 52. Schreger; in his Chirurgischen Versuchen, vol. i. p. 211. Abernethy, Surgical Works, vol. ii. p. 189. Eothe, Wiirdigung der Methoden des Harnblasenstiches ; in Rust’s Magagd vol. xvii. p. 281. 1824. In puncturing the bladder through the rectum, after havi> cleared the rectum with a clyster, the patient must be laid on the edge ■ a bed, so that the depending thighs may be bent and supported apart 1 ; assistants. The Surgeon introduces his finger oiled into the rectum, abo six lines above the prostate gland ; then carries the curved trocar, with point retracted, upon it, to the part where the finger determines the pun ture should be made. The handle of the trocar is now sunk against t buttock, and at the same time the point thrust forwards out of the canul and the trocar pushed in the axis of the pelvis to the depth of an in< to an inch and a half. The stilette is then withdrawn, whilst the lefthai steadies the tube. The urine having flowed through the first tube, second, with a rounded end, is introduced, and both fixed by means of cleft compress and T bandage, and tapes drawn through the rings. The works which may be consulted on puncture through the rectum are Pouteau, Melanges de Chirurgie, p. 500. Lyons, 1760. Hamilton ; in Philosoph. Trans., vol. xvi. Reid, A., An Enquiry into the merits of the Operations used in Obstinate Suppu sions of Urine. London, 1778. 8vo. Klosse, Dissert, de Paracentesi Vesicse urina per intestinum rectum. Jena, 1(91. Home, Everard ; in Trans, of a Society for the Improvement of Medical a' Surgical Knowledge; and in Practical Observations on the Treatment of Stricter in the Urethra and the (Esophagus, vol. ii. p. 329. Second Edition. Carpue, History of the High Operation for the Stone, p. 176. London, 1819. 8t 1825. Puncturing the bladder through theperinceum, is the most ancie practice, but at present almost entirely given up. In this operation, eith the urethra and neck of the bladder are opened directly by a cut in perinceum or the cut is made upon a staff, (boutonniere,) into the neck • the bladder, or the bladder is pierced with a trocar, which is thrust either directly in the middle of a line supposed to be drawn from t ischial tuberosities to the raphe, two lines in front of the edge of the the point of the instrument being directed first parallel to the axis of t body, and then thrust somewhat inwards; or a cut an inch and a 13 long is made half an inch to the left side of the raphe, beginning bene®# the bulb of the urethra, and ending by the verge of the anus, throug cellular tissue and muscles ; whilst an assistant presses the bladder ovr. the operator’s forefinger of the left hand introduced into the wound, as** tains its position, and then upon it he carries a thick grooved troc directed somewhat upwards into the bladder. The urine having been charged, the outer wound is lightly filled with lint, the tube plngg fastened as in puncture through the rectum.435 THROUGH THE PERINEUM. 6 For a careful recital of the various methods of proceeding in puncturing the bladder » 3rough the perinaeum, see Poller, Ueberden Harnblasenstich im Damme. Erlang., 1813. 8vo. jt Upon the various modes of using the Sound, see Desault, above cited, vol. iii. p. 320. : 1826. Although opinions agree upon the undoubted preference of punc- ■ Wiring the bladder above the pubic symphysis, and through the rectum, to d uat through the perineum, yet do they differ in regard to the first two > lodes of operation. In regard to puncture above the pubes, it is considered as easily per- tirmed and slightly painful; that by it merely the coverings of the belly □d one part of the bladder are injured, where it usually is not inflamed, d'<ad where it can be best treated ; that the bladder cannot be missed, that if! le after-treatment is easier, extravasation of urine does not so readily V’cur, and the tubes, if they accidentally fall out, can be easily replaced, & id may be changed and cleaned with little trouble; and that the patient i in go about whilst they remain in. On the other hand, the slipping off [ • t the bladder from the tubes after the discharge of the urine, by its fall- s' g together, and by the pressure on it, if it descend very low, inflamma- u on and suppuration of the hind wall of the bladder, and thrusting the H ;be into the rectum, are to be dreaded ; also if the urine be not completely i; scharged, that a part of it always remains in the bottom of the bladder. For the preference of puncturing through the rectum, it is alleged that :i e walls of the bladder and rectum are in closer contact, that the trocar r mis no thick parts to penetrate, and therefore the operation is not painful; ■fat the swelling of the bladder is more perceptible, and failure in intro- ducing the trocar less possible. On the contrary, it is thought that in this » deration the bladder may be missed, a blood vessel, or the seminal vesicles, 4 tie Peritonceum wounded ; that its effects are always greater, the escape the tubes, infiltration of the urine, collection of pus and consequent / inary fistula, are to be feared. I • l82^- The objections to the puncture above the pubes are of little value, I in performing it with a curved trocar, and by the introduction of a ' ant tuj?e> no jnjury to the hind wall of the bladder can ensue, and the - -aPe of the urine can be furthered by the proper position of the patient, ir.ns mode of operation, therefore, serves generally, but is especially i. ererabie over that through the rectum in those cases where the bladder ilinnamed or othervvise diseased, in hardening of the prostate, in diseases ' ne rectum, specially in hsemorrhoidal swellings, and if the discharge ne urine through the operation-wound must be long sustained, or niToughout life. objections made to puncturing through the rectum, it may be I s • ’ ,at the inj.ul7 the seminal vesicles may be easily avoided by I ddlenftV deeP]y’ and thrusting the trocar directly into the . ,i„ i le swelling ; that wounding the peritoneum is not easily pos- Ue anriCj|US*e Ul tf!e elevation of the bladder, the space between the pros- IjLtnv ',<l membrane is increased ; and the slipping out of the tubes, in v't thrmi l ^annot produce any inconvenience, as the urine either flows it2r of tv ! 16 0Peil’no> or the bladder again fills. The preference, how- ■M^uliar .'e..Purlcturo above the pubes always continues the greatest. As Em amt„i ^f11,0,118 m^P'mofuririg through the rectum may be held, a very [ a ^er> ehhsion of blood into it, and an overweening dread 2 f 2THE CESAREAN OPERATION. 436 of the patient about an operation, in which case it can be done throu i the rectum, without his knowledge. Poller (a), in cases where the operation above the pubes cannot be performed, p , i fers that through the perinceum to the puncture through the rectum, especially if it j foreseen that the retention of urine may be continued a long time after the operatic! In the puncture through the perinceum, there are also some special objects attainable * the emptying calcareous concretions in permanent disposition to form stone, and the ■ 1 moval of the danger of ischury in consequence of large stones, which cannot be remov j I [But few Surgeons in England, I believe, at the present time, ever perform eit) l of the operations for puncturing the bladder, as above described, except in the sin: 4 case of enlarged prostate, in which the operation above the pubes should be {;) formed; and indeed, as regards that disease, the necessity for any artificial , i sistance,’ beyond that of introducing a catheter, is so rare, that it is scarcely thoui ii of In all cases the operation of opening the membranous part of the urethra, i introducing a catheter into the bladder, which is, and has been for many years pr commonly practised in this country, is the most satisfactory and the most effectttfl If there be stricture, it is the Surgeon’s fault if the stricture and the retention be rfl cured at one and the same time; and, to a certainty, it prevents the possibility# mischief from extravasation, as the urine speedily flows by the wound, and is ne- ; pent up. There is neither difficulty nor danger in this operation. With comipj attention, the urethra may, in most cases, be found, and a catheter at once passed i; the bladder. If it cannot be found, as occasionally happens with young operators, « ! cut right through the urethra before they are aware of it, if the cut be continued mi :j deeply, the bladder must be opened, if the wound be carried up in the axis of t pelvis ■ and if it be not opened, it is not matter of great consequence, provided th. be a free external opening, as in the eourse of a few hours the urine will find its wj into the wound, and be readily discharged; and in cases of stricture, if the stricture-'I so far forward that it be not involved in the wound in the penna-um, made by t i knife or by sloughing, if urine be extravasated, it generally relaxes so much, that, can be cured by the ordinary treatment with bougies, or sounds, during the reparatt of the wound in the perinceum.—J. F. S.] IV _OF THE CiESAREAN OPERATION. (Sectio Caesarea, Gastrohysterotomia, Laparo-Metrotomia, Lat.; Kaiserschutt, Gena| ^ Operation Cesarienne, Fr.) Rousset, Traite nouveau de l’Hysterotomokia, Paris, 1581. Translated also u 1 Latin by Bauhinus. Basil, 1582. Ruleab, Traite de 1’Operation Cesarienne. Paris, 1704. Simon, Recherches sur l’Operation Cesarienne; in Mem. de l’Acad. de Chirurt vol. i. p. 623; vol. ii. p. 308. Kaltschmidt, De Partu Cacsareo. Jen., 1150. Stein, G. W., Praktische Anleitung zur Kaisergeburt. Cassel, 1775. Weissenborn, Observations duse de Partu Caesareo. Erford., 1792. Freymann, De Partu Cmsareo. Marb., 1797. Hull, John, M.D., A Defence of the Caesarean Operation, & c. Manchester, 1798. Gaillardot, C., Sur l’Operation Ce'sarienne. Strasb., 1799. Stein, G. W., Geburtshiilfliche Abhandlungen. Parti. Marb., 1803. Ansiaux, N., Dissert, sur l’Ope'ration Cesarienne et la Section de la Sympbyse Pubis. Paris, 1803. Nettmann, J. F., Speciem sistens Sectionis Cicsarete Historiam. Hall, 1805. Graefe, C. F„ Ueber Minderung der Gefahr beim Kaiserschnitte nebst der eines Falles, in welchem Mutter und Kind erhalten wurden ; in Journal fur und Augenheilk., vol. ix. p. 1. ... . Michaelis, G. A., Vierter Kaiserschnitt der Frau Adametz. mit gi»c“,cn Erfolge fur Mutter und Kind ; in Neue Zeitschr. fur Geburtskunde, vol. v. p- Berlin, 1837. Kayser, C., De eventu Sectionis Crcsareae. Havniae, 1841. 8vo. Rigby, Edw., M.D., A System of Midwifery. London, 1844. 12mo. (a) Above cited, p. 47.—Moniukbk ; in Revue Medic»le, vol. U. P- 319. 1841.THE CiESAREAN OPERATION. 437 >7 1828. When the pelvis is so narrow that a child cannot be brought {into the world at all by the natural passages, or not alive, the delivery j L mst be effected by some other than the natural way, that is, by the Artificial opening of the belly and womb. ft 1829. The circumstances demanding the Caesarean operation are first, i -hen the antero-posterior diameter of the outlet of the pelvis is less than j£.vo and a half inches, and the child is alive ; second, when there is so i . reat narrowing of the pelvis, that the dismemberment of the child is tnpossible. I When it is not quite certain that the child is alive, perforation should be preferred to >e Caesarean operation ; as it should be also in misformed children. If the mother be rainst the operation, her voice must be attended to. In doubtful cases, for instance, hen the signs which declare for and against the life of the child are of equal value, f e choice of the operation is not to be left to her decision, if she resolve upon it iring the labour. [“ The difficulty of deciding upon the operation, according to the indications of the :ontinental practitioners, is,” observes Rigby, “ much more perplexing than ac- urding to that which is followed in this country. The question here is, can the lild, under any circumstances, be made to pass per vias naturales with safety to the other? The impossibility of effecting this object is the sole guide for our decision, ru using the operation as a means for preserving also the life of the child, we must not Sfc'ily feel certain that the child is alive, but that it is also capable of supporting life, •fore we can conscientiously undertake the operation upon such indications. This Kicertainty as to the life or death of the child greatly increases the difficulty of tciding. Under circumstances where there is reason to believe that, although the lid may be alive, it is, nevertheless, unable to prolong its existence for any time, ■d the pelvis so narrow that it can only be brought through the natural passage’ liecemeal, we are certainly not authorized in putting an adult and otherwise healthy f other into such imminent danger of her life, for the sake of a child which is too ,feak to support existence. Circumstances may, nevertheless, occur, where the I *ms is s? narrow that the child cannot be brought even piecemeal through the natural : ssage; in this case, even if the child be dead, the operation becomes unavoidable ii 'ader the above-mentioned circumstances, it is the duty of the Surgeon to perform the ! eration; and he can do it with the more confidence, from the knowledge of many ses upon record, where it has succeeded, even under very unfavourable circum- ices, and where it has been performed very awkwardly; moreover, it seems highly obable, that the unfavourable results of this operation cannot often be attributed to the meration itself, but to other circumstances. Not, unfrequently, the uterus has been In bruised, irritated and injured, by the violent and repeated attempts to deliver bv I ?'D£ °.r,the forceps, and the patient so exhausted, and brought into such a spasmodic « teverish state, by the fruitless pains and vehement efforts, together with the anxiety *r res . sness which must occur under such circumstances, that it is impossible for operation to prove successful.” (pp. ] 54, 55.)] r 18^- In a pregnant woman just dead, the Caesarean operation should ' informed, if pregnancy be so far advanced, that the child is capable n hving, if the delivery be not possible by the natural passages, and the CS actu"llV, not apparently, dead (a) ; in which case the operation ust be undertaken as quickly as possible. I £sv th<\actual death of t}»e mother being put, beyond all doubt, I ongly ilStak'n^*5? operation, under these circumstances, cannot be too itance ;!PSd' A , ?• fnend’ on whose veracity 1 can rely, told me of an I louring underP f er m the country, presuming that a pregnant woman % eratioif Wa? de?d’ f’egan the Performance of the Ctesarean v i Cn died P He 1 TmCh a™USmg from,her deathlike state, she screamed out, 1 > 1831 Ti °St practice’ and was obliged to leave the place.—J. F. S.J hund it f a® Caesarear> operation, partly on account of the very large | a nflicts) partly on account of the symptoms which follow after, ■ ost exceedingly dangerous operation. The number of patients (a) Kioaitdeaux; in Journal dea Syavuns, 1749.THE CESAREAN OPERATION. 438 saved is very few, in comparison with those who have died after i i Cases, however, are mentioned, where the operation has been pei ] formed, two, five, six, and seven times, upon the same person (a). u 1 more favourable result is to be expected, if the patient’s health be good > if she have not suffered from previous disease, fruitless labour-pains, c i artificial attempts at delivery, and if the operation be undertaken at tb i right time. [Michaelis, who has very carefully inquired into the subject, has considc-rab, i doubts of the authenticity of many of the cases of repeated Cffisarean operation on tl. same woman, which have been related by the writers of the seventeenth and eighteent centuries; for, as he observes, “ it must be considered remarkable that no writer, as seems, relates the circumstance at first hand, that is, from the Surgeon himself; for i No. 3, Cthe woman who stated she had been operated on thrice,) No. 7, (the ship captain who declared himself the sixth son of whom his mother had been delhered b i this operation, and that she died in her seventh pregnancy, because the Surgeon who ha i previously operated on her was deceased,) No. 8, (the Minorite, the fifth son of anothe- j in this same way delivered of all her children,) and No. 9, (the woman mentioned b, Count Tressan, who had been delivered by the Caesarean operation seven times,) tb woman, or the sons who related it, are not of sufficient credit. To this must be addec that some of these histories rest alone upon hearsay, or on suspicious witnesses. Thai was it, for instance, with Count Tressan’s case, at a time when, at least in Franc* literary intercourse was very active, that it seems incomprehensible^ how Baude eocque, in the Recueil periodique de la Soc. de Me'd., vol. v. p. 63 to 74, in which h * gives a collection of sixty-six cases, from the year 1752 to 1799, should never at al have thought of this most remarkable case of all; and it is almost beyond belief ufflJ it should remain for Count Tressan to discover such a case.” (p. 5.) “ This mquir} therefore, leads to the single result, that the old cases of often-repeated Cresareai operation must at least remain very doubtful. If, however, we be disposed to give credit one way or other, yet there is little benefit to knowledge from the want of oh precise data, as, on the whole, the case of Adametz alone shows the possibility of ai often repetition of the operation.” (p. 6.), ...... The most satisfactory inquiry into the result of the Csesarean operation is that maou n.r Vivsi',) (h\ who divides the historv into two periods; the former terminating witl Or in a decreasing ratio of 68, 63, and 49 per cent. ^ Where labour had lasted more than seventy-two hours, the mortality was <2 pa From 1750 to 1800 there were 37 successful 80 fatal cases. „ 1801 „ 1832 „ 54 „ 94 „ „ 1833 „ 1839 „ 37 „ 36 „ 128 210 (a) Simon; above cited, p. 636.—I.e Maistre ; in Journ. de MSdec., vol. xliv. 1812.—Sommer; in Russischen Sammlungen fiir Naturwissenschaft 'Kf< c’ped'at the head of the article. I am very sorry that 1 have been unable to lay hand on this future occasion to be more suiTHE CAESAREAN OPERATION. 439 si om pneumonia, one from rupture of the uterus, and consequent haemorrhage, on the i, ,veuth day after delivery ; one died from osteomalacia, and one from the immediate fo fects of the operation, only twenty-four hours after its completion.” (p. 129.) Michaelis’s own case is the most remarkable and best authenticated of any that have h >en published. The woman was delivered four times by the Caesarean operation. > he account of the first three is given by Feist (a), and of the fourth by Michaelis ' mself (b). k The woman was born at Wilster, in Holstein, in 1795, and was so ricketty that she •{ as only able to walk a little when in her twelfth year. She became pregnant, and on !i e morning of the 18th June, 1826, all other means of delivery being inefficient, the ftesarean operation was performed by Dr. Zwanck, of Eddelack. The placenta was separated and removed immediately after the child, which appeared to have been li me time dead, had been extracted, the womb contracting strongly; but this was billowed by a severe bleeding, which was stopped by dropping cold water from a sponge, ji: a height of some feet. The edges of the external wound fell so completely together i . i at there was not need of sutures, and sticking plaster was alone applied. Shortly after »■■■tree weeks it had healed ; before a month she left her bed, and two months from the 30 iteration mensturated. On the 21st Jan., 1829, she was again in labour, at the Lying-in i.dospital at Kiel, where the Caesarean operation was performed on her by Wiede- Mann: the child was born alive. The external wound was brought together with iL.ree stitches and sticking plaster, and a small tent left in the lower angle of the .bund. On the 21st Feb. she got up from her bed for some hours, and was very l ell. In the beginning of March the wound was perfectly healed, except a few to ints of skin and a small sinus, which had not healed when she left the house at the Kv jiter end of that month. On the 28th March, 1832, she was in Kiel Lying-in Hospital, :.i: ain subjected to the Caesarean operation, which was performed by Michaelis, and .Lie child born alive. The womb contracted imperfectly on the removal of the after- •orth, and there was then first a slight flow of blood from the womb, which was stopped a few minutes by a stream of water from a sponge. Four sutures were put into the mjin-wound, with a small portion of linen into its lower angle, and sticking plaster i ; :erwards applied with a circular roller. The wound was healed, excepting a very t* iiaM Part of the scar, by the 16th May ; but on the 25th, a small fistulous passage was iscovered running into the womb, which had become firmly adherent to the walls of .'bh belly. On the 10th June the fistula was healed (e).] 1832. The favourable time for this operation is that at which nature .buld, under other circumstances, expel the foetus; when, for instance, mcus, streaked with blood, flows from the generative parts; when the iouth of the womb is wide open, the waters have escaped, the head or i y other part of the child is perceptible, and the labouring woman has offered already actual, painful, quickly following labour-pains, nearly • iproaching convulsions. (Graefe.) [ ‘ Although it is so important,” says Rigby, “ that we should lose no time, still, Mvertheless, it does not appear desirable to operate before labour has commenced, any extent; for, unless the os uteri has undergone a certain degree of dilatation, it 1 . no.t; afford a sufficiently free exit for liquor aninii, blood, lochia, which, by stag- •ing m the uterus, after the operation, would soon become irritating and putrid, in ", r.Ca?e they would be apt to drain through the wound, and create much mischief.” < 155.)] 8fl833. The preparation for the operation consists in emptying the '-turn with clysters, and the bladder with a catheter. The instru- cts required for this operation are a convex-edged and a button- i .e. straight bistoury, a director, bandages, and several needles. The ||snion of the patient should be horizontal, upon her back, with the ’i per part 0f her back somewhat raised, on a narrow table, covered with |fna ress; she should also be covered with a cloth at those parts not hSpiioi . . (a) Neue Zeitsch. 6 U Cited at heart of article. 10 MfpiiAKois, (; Kiel, 183! ’dem”r“v1'ls' I'- M-n., Abliandlunge °m kebiete rter Geburtohiilfe. Geburtskunde, vol. iii. large 8vo.; with eight plates. Extracts from tho same in Neue Zeitsch. fiir Geburtskunde, vol. iii. p. 438. By Feist of Mainz.THE CAESAREAN OPERATION. 440 interfering with the operation, and should be held by assistants. Th face should be turned from the operator, or covered with a thin cloth. 1834. To prevent the protrusion of the intestines through the wound j | the walls of the belly, moderate pressure with the hands is usually en ^ ployed. Auterieth proposes the previous introduction of ligatures befoi m the womb is opened, and Rietgen, a girdle of plaster. G-raefe more pr< a perly makes well-regulated pressure with three sponges, each a foot lonj 11 six inches wide, and three inches thick, held by assistants, so that a spac. fl about eight inches long, and from three to four wide, is left clear, j I intestines be found between the womb and the wall of the belly, which nia be ascertained by the yielding elastic condition of the latter, they must fc ij first thrust back by gentle pressure, till a convex, unyielding firm hard bod*; be felt in every direction. At the very moment when the last part of th child escapes, the sponges must be more firmly pressed, by the assistant;, i 1835. The seat and direction of the cut has been variously proposed. First. The Lateral Cut, on the side where there is the greatest promt nence of the belly, or, directly opposite it (a), by the side of the white line; more or less distant from it, in or near the m. rectus abdominis, between the navel and the pubic bones, and a little obliquely from above down wards and outwards (b). Second. The Cut in the ivliite line, beginning from above or below th i navel, to an inch and a half or two inches above the pubic symphysis (cm Third. The Transverse Cut, upon the side, where the womb is mos prominent between the m. rectus and the spinal column, and between th. false ribs and the crest of the hip-bone, above or below the navel (d). Fourth. The Oblique or Diagonal Cut, the direction of which is fron ! the extremity of the lowest false rib to the horizontal branch of the pubit bone of the other side, obliquely across the white line, so that the middli of the cut falls immediately upon it (e). 1836. The choice and direction of the cut, with its accompanying ad- vantages, are not in general determinate, but must be guided by the par- ticular circumstances of the case, especially by the position and direction ot the womb, the pretty well known seat of the placenta, the position of the child, the size of the space between the navel and the pubic symphysis, and the like. As the placenta is most usually on the right side, though it may. be also on the left, preference has been given to the cut on the left side rather than to that on the white line. In this cut the outer and inner walls are parallel, all fluids escape more readily from the wound; the wall of the belly is at this part thinnest; in opening it no blood vessel is wounded, and the healing of the wound in the linea alba is as quick as in any other part of the wall of the belly. In the diagonal cut the womb, after the operation, contracts so that the wound in it does not gape. The same also happens with the oblique cut; in it, however, the wall of the belly is cut through at its thickest part, and vessels are wounded. "That part is to be specially con- sidered as the best where the womb and the child can be most distinctly felt. 1837. The operation consists of the following steps :—-first, the opening (а) Mir.lot, Observation sur l'Operation dite Cesarienne, faite avec sticces. Paris, 1796. Obser- vations sur les Causes et les Accidens de plusieurs Accouchemens laborieux. Paris, 1750. Svo. Se- cond Edition. (б) Rousset, above cited. — Levret, Observa- tions sur les Causes et les Accidens de plusieurs Accouchemens laborieux. Nouv. Edit. Paris, 1780. 8vo.—Stein, Abhandlung von der Kaisergeburt. (c) GuEhin, Histoire de deux Operations Ces«- riennes. Paris, 1750.—Baudelocqvk, L'Art <■<* Accouchemens, vol. ii. Paris, 1807.—D*Ltc*'E‘ Observations sur l’Operation Cesarienne a la iign blanche. Paris. 1788. (d) Lauvkrjat, Nouvclle Methodede prattqu l’Operation Cesarienne. Paris, 1188. (r) Stein, Geburtshiillliche Abhandlunge , vol. i p. 125.441 THE C/ESAREAN OPERATION. e >f the belly-wall ; second, the opening of the womb ; third, the draw- 3 ng forth of the child and of the after-birth ; fourth, the closing of the b round. 1838. The skin and abdominal muscles are to be cut through to the & -jeritoneeum in one of the directions given, {par. 1835,) with a convex bis- . oury. Any vessel wounded must be tied; a small opening is then made ■ii nto the peritonceum to admit the forefinger of the left hand, and upon it m he button-ended bistoury is introduced and divides the peritonceum the I rhole length of the outer wound. A cut is then made in the white line, as 'ft io vessel can be there wounded, bearing in mind the thinness of the ex- b; landed wall of the belly, with one stroke through the coverings and peri- \\mourn. A length of five inches for the cut in the wall of the belly is si ufficient, and of four and a half inches for that in the womb is generally t o be considered sufficient. The womb now presenting itself in the A round, of a bluish-red colour, its cavity is to be cut into with the convex ft >istoury to a small extent, and the wound enlarged in the direction of i be outer wound, as quickly as possible with the button-ended bistoury introduced on the forefinger. The child, grasped according to its posi- ;d ion, by the head or feet, is to be drawn out, but not too hastily, and the a- avel-string tied and divided. If the opening of the womb fall upon the fiddle of the placenta the cut must be quickly enlarged, the placenta cut ?! arough, the child pulled out, and the placenta separated. If the cut light .b pon the edge of the placenta, it must be separated. If the separated pla- I enta present itself in the wound of the womb, it must be separated by a e entle pull upon the navel-string and by a not very quick twist. If this be ii ot sufficient, it must be separated by introducing the hand into the womb. i Wigand’s (a) proposal of pushing the navel-string with a curved rod through the 0 .outh of the wound into the vagina is objectionable. iff? If the womb do not, by its own contraction, descend into the pelvis, it must be cau- Bjpnsly thrust down (6). (ji Various kinds of knives for the Caesarean operation have been recommended by 1 b>' Fla™and> with a removable sheath (d), by Zeller (e), and Mesnard’s fi 1838. After the blood, which has escaped into the cavity of the womb, ■'is been sopped up with fine sponge dipped in warm water, the mem- ranes which by stopping up the mouth of the womb prevent the flowing 0 way of the blood, are to be removed, the blood poured into the belly ptJy Passed out, and any of the intestines which have protruded havino- * -en replaced, the edges of the wound are brought together by the as° Iclosed with the sutures (g), which are introduced with • -Mies of sufficient breadth, in such way, however, that the lower angle of SenTTi m whlch astr.if foiled linen is to be placed, may remain d- • Stiekin Tcfpe °/ fluld; To suPP°rt the closed wounds, some pieces inSh 2 F i ’ !r°m fou? t0 five inches and a half ^ width and Middle nlnni? °F’ and ,once and a half surround the belly, their 1 ion nP * C °n the back, and the ends brought forwards crossing in front fct TZ ,and 8r* Mow. The open par, of fhe wound Peking n Ler rr W, , TaddlnS sPread with ointment, and over it S p aster, and the whole belly supported with a linen girdle, having 1 j *> Geburtshulflic^ AbhindlS!,"111110116 Abhandlu"gf i P- 96. Hamburg, 1812. UmIT* *" Geburtsl'r‘‘fe,gpl. Vi. figs.3,4. stnunen°te.NETTEa * Verzeichni83 der chi'urff- H? Divert, de l'Ope ration Cittrienne. Paris. fig *™®H0LZ'8 AMogie, pi. v. fig, 30, (ff) Uhaefe, above cited, p. 25,THE CAESAREAN OPERATION. 442 strings in front. The patient is then so placed in bed that the lower ang] of the wound may, as far as possible, be the most depending part. [In a case operated on by Goijkfroy of Mayence (a), after the womb had contracted i the edges of the wound did not come together, but a considerable space remained h tween them; he therefore passed some sutures of waxed double threads, with a needld a through the whole thickness of the womb. The wound in the wall of the belly was als 3 brought together by passing the needle through its whole thickness, and also throug ;i the peritonceum. On the eleventh day, the union of the wound appearing firm, th u sutures were removed. On the twenty-ninth day no trace of suppuration remained, an t the patient left her bed.- She recovered, and her child had been saved. Objection - 8 have been made by Desormeaux to sewing up the womb, but Godfroy thinks thei ‘ danger is exaggerated. “ The most dangerous circumstance in this (Caesarean) operation is,” observes Mr: it chaelis, “ the impossibility of preventing completely the effusion of the secretion fror- >■ ■; the wound into the belly. The choice of the seat of the operation, as nearly as possibl sjf parallel to the white line, seems to be always the most important point, for there mos i rarely do the two wounds separate from each other. I have already mentioned, i: ll another case (6), the remarkable circumstance that the wound in the womb lies tranv il versely, and sinks to the lowest angle of the wound in the wall of the belly; and ii fl other instances I have observed still more remarkable varieties in the wound and it -ij fatal consequences. It may be hoped that this more frequent separation would not b I so injurious, as the secretion of the wound discharges itself through the mouth of tin 'i womb and the vagina. The form which the wound assumes in consequence of the ft contraction of the womb is, however, unfavourable for this escape; it gapes externally!’* and lies close together within. Thus was it in my case, in which the whole wound ii o the womb remained long open, and was in general supported by purely mechanics .j means. But when the after-pains very soon subside the womb may so close, in conse- J quence of general turgescence, before the oncoming of suppuration, that the cure it j: quick and without suppuration. It is therefore important that the after-pains shoulc i be very early put a stop to, if possible, by the moderate, or even the more active use a d opium.” (p. 24.)] 1840. The after-treatment must be the same as that generally laid down v for large wounds of the belly, the state of the patient in regard to hei puerperal condition being borne in mind (c). The dressings must be I replaced when the secretion from the wound has penetrated through, or ii n there be any strangulation of the intestines or omentum. The removal ol i the sutures, if not previously required on account of inflammation, should a not be before the eighth or tenth day, first indeed, the upper, and after- 1 wards the lower ones. The vagina and mouth of the womb should be I examined every day, and every thing removed which can interfere with the lochial discharge. When scarring begins, a well-closing belly-band must ! be employed to prevent abdominal rupture, and all exertion avoided. [Michaelis observes, in regard to opium:—“ The employment of opium, at first in I large, and afterwards in small doses, I consider the most important remedy for the pur- pose of guarding the nervous system before it become affected by so great an injury as the operation, for moderating the pain and for diminishing reaction.” And as to the j necessity of keeping the bowels freely open, he says, that ‘‘ his own experience,® his observation of other cases, have disposed him to it; that there is scarcely a Amy I described successful case in which the relief of the bowels has not been frequent, ind®fa j where there lias not been severe diarrlura. Adametz had the bowels moved on t ® j last occasion, from the third to the twentieth day, almost daily six times, and on fourth day nineteen times; that this was excessive 1 will not deny; the inconvenience, I however, was trifling, and, indeed, had there not been on the fourth day so great a > charge she would have been with difficulty saved. It is, however, difficult to cnec ^ -1 relief at the proper time with the usual means. I believe, however, that we haw: I ice the safest and, in other respects, the most proper remedy; it at once ope quickly as a purgative if some doses of calomel be given with it.” (pp- 25, 6.)] I 1841. The following special proposals to diminish the danger of e rav Gazette Medicate, vol. viii. p. 444. 1840. (6) Pfaff ; Mittheilungen, vol. ii. P- ll9‘ v ' (c) Upon the after-treatment, see Graefk.443 THE CAESAREAN OPERATION. »t Cesarean operation may be here mentioned:—First. The head of the a child should be pressed up against the front of the womb and the belly by [i; the hand passed through the pelvis up into the womb, and upon it and the white line, the cut made as far as necessary in order to hasten the expul- ki sion of the child (a). Second. After the wound is made in the wall of the belly, immediately the womb, the vagina, and, if necessary, the mouth »i of the womb should be opened at a single cut, and the child drawn out tiji of the womb (b), Third. According to Rietgen (c), a semilunar cut hi should be made from the crest of the hip-bone to near the pubic sym- ,v ohysis, through the skin, whilst an assistant, standing at the patient’s left t) oreast, thrusts down the womb from the right side, by which the skin over ^ :he region of the wound is stretched. A cut of similar extent through n ,he muscles follows that through the skin, care being taken not to wound v he peritonceum. The cellular tissue covering the peritonceum is to be ;r oosened with the fingers, with the handle of the knife, or with the knife i | Itself; and the cavity of the belly undermined. The straight director is ^ aow introduced into the vagina, and so directed that its point pushes the u vagina above the middle of the right linea innominata. The operator It low thrusts the stem of the director through the wall of the vagina, and enlarges the opening with a button-ended bistoury towards the bladder, i i The director is removed and the cut continued towards the rectum upon - he right forefinger. If thje cut can be so made that an edge of two or i hree inches of the vagina be formed on the right half of the neck of the a' vomb, it must be divided obliquely with the scissors; the wound is then Q covered and the passage of the child watched. If necessary, the womb |£ Iso may be cut into on the right side. t Rietgen (</) considers that the wound in the walls of the. belly, made as above r hected, gives but little width, on account of the oblique direction of the descending 0 ibres of the external abdominal muscle, and that for the extraction of the child r second cut is necessary to divide those fibres transversely. Cutting into the mouth »i.nd neck of the womb seems in no case to he dispensed with, and after the first i< at has been made through the cavity of the vagina, must be immediately proceeded 'ith. By thus doing, the division of the hind part of the vagina is unnecessary, and ’■). ie considerable bleeding which accompanies it is thereby prevented, and what there is 1 lay be easily and completely stanched with a sponge dipped in cold water. The best hosen part for the cut into the womb is under that fold of the peritonceum which .! asses upon the round ligament of the womb, and partly lies upon it. Astley Cooper’s jhernial knife answers best for opening the .womb. 1 Bacdelocque’s (e) method agrees almost completely with that of Rietgen. He lakes in the right-sided obliquity of the womb a cut upon the left side of the belly along ■ ie outer edge of the m. rectus, from the navel to an inch or two above the si/mphi/sis. H 'n™W*terS fre dlscharged througb the vagina, the legs and thighs bent, and, with the 1, .5 mtroduced at the lower part of the wound, the peritonaum is separated through- r e, " .°® extent of the iliac pit, and above the iliac artery. One assistant then ■ raws pack the peritonaum and intestines, and another keeps the womb in its place by his : *PPhed to the belly. The operator introduces his hand into the wound, seeks for the icro kTTu and asce,rta,.ns whether any branches pass from it around the vaqina, and if ■ 1 is they.m??t be ?led before he cuts through them. The left hand smeared with I . earned into■ the vagina, which is to be lifted into the wound, and then cut into «own as possible below its insertion into the neck of the womb, and the cut ip ft'\ in GStt. galelirt. Anzcig., 181 <T Joho, \ersuche uml lieitrage, p. 268. Leip Anzeigei> <ler meclianisclien Hiilfen t 5K n nP’ P- 441 • Giessen, 1820. 1 rriihtet^n ""giinstigem Erfol ■Chteten Banchscheidenschnittes und Fob rungen daraus ; in Ileidelberger klinischen Anna- len, vol. i. p. 263. (c) These Inaugurale. Paris, 1823; and Nou- veau Moyen pour delivrer les femmes contrefaites a terme et en travail, substitue a TOperation Osarienne, suivi de reflexions sur ce sujet, par F. T. DuciiAteau. Paris, 1824. 8vo.444 GASTROTOMY. lengthened to four inches and a half. In left-sided obliquity of the womb, the cut i > to be made on the right side. Baudelocque calls this operation Gastroelytrohmy. Physick (a) proposes making the cut horizontal above the pubic bones, and t dig here beneath the peritonaeum. Experience has not yet decided on the value of these several methods, especially uportfl the various difficulties in bringing the child into the world. The advantage o i not opening the cavity of the belly is counterbalanced by the tearing away am ■ separating the peritorueuni, from which dangerous inflammation, effusion, and eollectioi ij of pus would necessarily ensue. [From the account which Michaelis has given of the woman Adametz, it is evident flj that, with good reason, he considers a repetition of the operation as more likely to b< i successful than the first, on account of the adhesions which the womb acquires to the M wall of the belly. He observes, that “ the growing together of the walls of the belly wit) the womb had the most favourable influence upon the subsequent operations. Tbit union had already taken place, at the second operation, at one part; in the third, three places had united; in the fourth, the union was complete as far as the cut extended' ( But I consider that even a partial union has an important influence, by preventing the wound of the womb separating so far from the wall of the belly, that the secretion fron: the former cannot find a free passage into the latter. It has also the advantage in this operation that if it (the adhesion) be above, the intestines cannot protrude there, but , if it be complete, there can be no protrusion. This would be a very untoward condition, if Merrem’s opinion (b) were correct, that ‘ in the adhesion the wall of the belly, in the1 latter half of pregnancy, there would be tearing from the little extensible belly-wall, and thus the flying open of the whole imperfect scar of the womb would necessarily occur;’- and that ‘ in such cases it was not to be supposed that the foetus would be carried its full time.’ Merrem, on the one hand, draws his conclusions from one single case ; but ; nature, on the other, has other means than theory imagines. These are, that the ad-< herent wall of the belly, or the scar, possesses the same extensibility as the womb itself. The first wound of five inches had, in the second pregnancy, lengthened itself to ten inches, and was four inches broad. In the third pregnancy it was twelve long, and five inches broad; and in the fourth pregnancy still larger. The contraction of the: scar after the fourth pregnancy was most surprising, for although the cut itself after some days had diminished to half its length, although it at last diminished from five inches to one, yet was the wall of the belly, at the part where the womb adhered,* smooth and free from fold; but where it did not adhere, were two slight transverse folds.” (pp. 22, 3.)] V.—OF GASTROTOMY. (Gastrotoniia, Laparotomia, Lat.; Bauchschnitt, Germ.) 1842. If a foetus be developed in the Fallopian tube, in the ovary, or in the cavity of the belly, or if by bursting of the womb or vagina it escape into the cavity of the belly, and its extraction cannot be effected by the natural passages, dangerous symptoms in regard to the mother are to be feared whether the child be alive or dead, and there be no signs that it can be discharged by the process of ulceration in one way or other by the natural powers, then opening the cavity of the belly is required. The other diseases which render this operation necessary have been already mentioned. The symptoms of an extra-uterine pregnancy are never so manifest, that before the usual period of delivery the operation can be decided on; although, if it «*n f performed between the second and fifth month, the hope of a successful result is by far greater than when it is undertaken at the ordinary termination of pregnancy ; *or. these cases the abdominal bowels are always considerably altered, the whole consUrae tion of the patient is greatly disturbed; it is not certain that the placentai rw r! X, JO 11 UI U1C pu UCUl. IO IjlUUI J UIOUI1 UVU « vv» «•••« ~ f completely separated; and in the separation of the membranes, dangerous bleem^ is always to be dreaded. In what way also is the lochial discharge to be got nd o It must also be remembered that the foetus, in extra-uterine preguancy, very rare y (6) Gemeinde ZeiUchr. fur Geburtsk., vol.in- p. 338. (a) Dewees, Compendious System of Midwifery. Philadelphia, 1824.445 CUTTING THROUGH THE PUBIC SYMPHYSIS. 1 caches the full period, that on the contrary it not unfrequently remains enclosed and .[ crumpled up in the membranes, which are thickened and hardened; or that in conse- quence of the irritation of tliefoetus, inflammation, adhesion of the neighbouring parts, and throwing off the foetus piecemeal, by suppuration, through the openings of the g abscess or by the rectum, may happen; so that, in most cases, it may be best to assist ”, nature in the discharge of the foetus, in the way just mentioned, by means which m encourage suppuration, and the like. According to Heim (a), most violent pains, and '0 the most pitiable and deplorable condition may exist, and in one case did for ten years. [It is an important question, whether a womb can be ruptured completely, excepting h its peritoneal coat, within which the foetus may be still retained, and so found by the ;i operation of gastrotomy. Blundell (b) thinks it can, and gives as an example i o ,Barlow’s (c) case, in which it is stated “ the uterus was very thin, scarcely exceeding that r of the peritonceum, and equally so throughout the whole extent of the incision.” .$ (p. 159.) Hull (d), however, considered “ that the child had escaped through a Iace- i ration of the uterus into the abdomen, enveloped in the secundines, and that Barlow j; had merely divided the membranes, when he fancied he had divided the uterus.” (. [p. 73.) But Blundell says:—“ To me it appears to have been a case of rupture of the si. muscular substance of the uterus, without rupture of the uterme. peritonceum.” (p. 552.) i Under such circumstances the operation performed would be merely gastrotomy, and ••not the Caesarean.] 1843. When in a tubular or ovarian pregnancy the membranes enclosing Kthe /oefas are torn, or by a rent of the womb, the foetus escapes into the | -avity of the belly, in which latter case the patient, after severe suffering 4 ind labour-pains, feels suddenly easy, and has a sensation of warmth spreading over the belly, the pulse small and quick, and the like, death in [/(general soon follows. i 1844. No definite rules can be laid down for the place and direction of 0 hecut. At the part where the foetus is most distinctly felt, and towards . which an assistant should press it with his hands spread flat on both sides, i cut of about six inches long should be made through the skin and •; nuscles down to the peritonceum, which must be then divided, as in 8 he Caesarean operation. If the foetus be uncovered by the membranes, J 1 may be removed in any convenient way; if it be enclosed, the mem- • oranes must be cautiously separated, the foetus, and afterwards the mem- 'ranes, if not prevented by adhesion (e), and the placenta removed. If qhe fetus be partly in a rent of the womb, it must be taken out cleverly, f possible without enlarging the rent. If separation of the placenta be - mpossible, the navel-string, after having been tied, must be left hanging * mt tbe wound till the placenta come away. The dressing and aftera reatment are the same as in the Caesarean operation. f 1845. If an abscess or fistulous opening have already formed, it must be !f. into or enlarged for the purpose of removing the foetus whole or 'lecemeal (/). VI.-OF CUTTING THROUGH THE PUBIC SYMPHYSIS. {Synchondrotomia, Lat.; Schoosfugenschnitt, Germ.; Symphysdotomie, Fr.) ingtrm’ Eplstola de emolumentis Sectionis synchondroseos Ossium Pubis. Groe- ^icault, Discours sur les avantages de la Section de la Symphyse du Pubis. Paris, ’^0Vp^,^rCheS Mst0riques et Pratiques sur la Section de la Symphyse du "b®r SchwanRerschaften aus- (c) Medical Records and Researches. London, 8vo. (d) Defence above cited. (ff) Veiei. ; in Wiirtemb. Med. Correspon- denibl. 1840. (f) hm./ni" . ,’ , ' "• denibl. 1840. ’ lssert- de I.aparotomia, novissimoquc ejus exemplo. Viteb., 1811. 4to.CUTTING THROUGH THE PUBIC SYMPHYSIS. 446 Leroy, Observations et reflexions sur l’Ope'ration de la Symphyse et les Accoucb t mens laborieux. Paris, 1780. Piet, Pense'es sur la Section de la Symphyse des Os Pubis. Paris, 1778. von Krapf, K., Anatomische Versucbe und Anmerkungen iiber die angebliche I .. weiterung der Beckenhohle, u. s. w. Part I. Wien., 1780. Part II., 1781. Siebold C., ET Weidmann, Comparatio inter Sectionem Caesaream,et.Dissections Cartilaginum et Ligamentorum Pubis in partu, ob angustiam Pelvis, iinpossibi j Wirceb., 1779. Walter, von der Spaltung der Schaambeine in schweren Geburten. Berl., 1782.' Micheli, J. P., Dissert, inquirens Synchondrotomiffi utilitatem in Partu diffici Lugd. Batav., 1781. 4to. Desgranges, Remarques critiques et Observations sur la Section de la Symphyse d :i Os Pubis ; in Journal de Medecine, p. 481. 1780. Lauverjat, Nouvelle Metbode de pratiquer l’Operation Ce'sarienne et Parallele 3 cette operation et de la Section de la Symphyse des Os Pubis. Paris, 1788. Baudelocque, An in Partu impossibili Symphysis secanda ? Paris, 1776. Salomon, Verhandeling over de Nettigheit der Sehaambenschneede, etc. Amsu dam, 1813. 1846. Cutting through the pubic symphysis is required in a narrowii- i of the antero-posterior diameter of the outlet of the pelvis of from tv and a half to three inches, and in a narrowing of the transverse diamet. ; of the brim and outlet of from two to three inches. To lay down determinate indications for cutting through the pubic symphysis ■ < difficult, as the experiments which have been made upon the enlargement of the pelv I dimensions, after division of the symphysis in dead bodies, have presented different resul- 1 and it has happened with this operation, as with many others, that it has been, on t one hand, too much vaunted, as on the other it has been unhesitatingly discarded. I indications here given rest on the experiments and practice of Ansiaux (a), from who it appears that the pubic bones, after the division of their symphysis, are capable of separation of three inches, without the sacro iliac symphysis being torn ; that by U separation the outlet acquires an additional extent of ten lines, and that by the entran of a part of the child’s head into the space between the separated pubic bones, a st further space of five lines is obtained. This proportion may, however, vary in sop subjects, which, however, can previously be just as little decided, as can any oaificatiw* of the sacro-iliac synchondrosis. In deciding, however, upon the results of cmm through the pubic si/mphysis in the dead subject, it appears to me an important circrn stance, whether the experiments have been made sooner or later after death. According to Vrolick’s ( b) experiments, in consequence of the intrusion of the rmn bone in the parting asunder of the separated pubic bones, the increase of thepem I space is little, and therefore a large restriction of the cut through the pubic symphy» 1 1S Further experience is still requisite to determine how far this operation is apphcah in the artificially produced premature labour (c). Ma J 1847. The operation is to be performed in the following way . ■ patient having been placed on her back on a narrow couch co>crt '' . a mattress, the pudenda cleared of hair, and the rectum and bladder, _ the latter of which the catheter is to remain, emptied, a cut is to hero at the part immediately corresponding to the pubic symphysis, begu • half an inch above the upper edge of the share-bone, and earned the clitoris, without wounding it. In the direction of this "ouna thing is to be cut through, down to the cartilage. An assistant now P the bladder aside with the catheter, and the operator introduces a (a) Clinique Chirurgicale, p. 79 ffcYVersuche iiberilas Zurilckweichen des heihgen s* Beines sowohl im unverletzten Becken, alsnach der Scliaambeintrennung j in von Sikbolu s Jour- nal fiir Geburtshiilfe, vol. i. n. 542.—von H r, Uebor die Austiilirbarkelt un.l den Nutzen des Schaaml’ugcnschnittes; in same vol. i. p. 50>. Orne ; Experiments to determine the applica- rurgicale, p. 79. , . .. . <v,minu bility of the Sectio Ossis pubis i in * le ■ L of the Massachusetts 51ed. Soc., • drotoir ISOS.—Coojon, C., Essai sur la S J nch pubienne. Paris, 1825. 4to. p.r.hccburt,: F (c) Rmhnom, Ibe kiinstbche Pr',hBv ein wichtiges Mittel in der fcntbindungs Augsburg, 1820.447 BLOOD SWELLINGS ON THE HEADS OF INFANTS. ided curved strong bistoury at the lower edge of the pubic symphysis, , id thrustino- it along the hind surface, divides the symphysis from within v wtwards. Any bleeding must be stanched by pressure or ligature. If the symphysis be ossified, a little straight button-ended thin saw is to be applied on L. Upper edge, and division made with some short strokes, during which the assistant raws the soft parts as much aside as possible. 1848. The share-bones now in general separate from each other, which *ie assistants holding the thighs, allow to take place but very slowly, and ie labour proceeds by the natural powers, or is completed by artificial d. If the bones do not part from each other, the thighs must be slowly •parated, till the space between the divided bones has acquired two, two ; id a half, to three inches extent. 1849. After delivery, the bones are to be brought together, as closely s possible, in doing which special caution must be had that no soft parts ■i. Is between them. The wound is united with sticking plaster, covered with i nt and a compress, and the pelvis supported by a close-fitting girdle : iplied around it. 1850. The after-treatment is specially directed by the ensuing symptoms r/ f inflammation. If the bladder or urethra be wounded in this operation, catheter must be introduced. If suppuration, fistulous sores, caries, or ■ icrosis occur, their treatment must be according to the usual rules, r: aflammation of the sacro-iliac synchondrosis, consequent on the extension ; id tearing it has suffered, requires antiphlogistic treatment. If collec- ons of pus form, they should be opened early. An imperfect union of ie share-bones, by which lameness or halting is produced, renders the i mtinued application of a firmly-enclosing girdle, perfect rest and the use f strengthening baths necessary. B.—COLLECTION OF NATURAL FLUIDS EXTERNAL TO THEIR PROPER CAVITIES AND RECEPTACLES. I—OF THE BLOOD SWELLINGS ON THE HEADS OF NEWLY-BORN CHILDREN. Leyret, in Journal de Medecine, vol. xxxvii. p. 410. 1772. Michaelis; in Lodebs’ Journal fiir die Chirurgie, vol. ii. p. 657. Naegele, Erfahrungen und Abhandlungen, u. s. w. p. 245. Klein, Bemerkungen fiber die bisher angenommenen Folgen des Sturzes der Kinder if den Boden bei schnellen Geburten, p. 20. Stuttgart, 1817. Valletta, J. S., Exercitationes pathologic®, cap. x. art. 1, De Ahscessu capitis san- “ne,p. 123. Mediol., 1820. Zeller, C., Pr®sid. Naegele, Comment, de Cephalacmatomate seu sanguineo cranii more recens natorum. Heide, 1822. HoereC. F., De Tumore Cranii recens-natorum sanguineo et extemo et interno, an- ■xis observationibus de cranii impressionibus et fissures. Berol., 1824. 4to.; with two es, in von Siebold’s Journal fiir Geburtshiilfe, Frauenzimmer und Kinderkrank- 81 ten, vol. v. p. 219. Scbiemann, J. F., Dissert, de Tumore Cranii recens-natorum sanguineo. Jen®, 1832. ignk, Memoire sur les Cephal®matomes; in Journ. Hebdom., vol. xii. p. 46. 1833. iitsLTE?oEK(i’ D’ssert. de Cephalmmatomate seu Tumore Cranii recens-natorum. 0™ng., 1833. 8vo. Bartsch, Dissert, de Cephal®matomate recens-natorum. Rostochii, 1833. nennd,i,N°8’ Observations on Sanguineous Tumours of the Head, which form spon- fineua N,^sometimes denominated “ Ceplial®matoma,” and “ Abscessus Capitis San- ">eus Neonatorum;” in North American Archives. July, 1835.448 BLOOD SWELLINGS Beitrage Unger, von der blutigen Kopfgeschwulst der Neugebornen; in Klinik. Leipz., 1833. Burchard, J. A., DeTumore Cranii recens-natorum sanguineo symbol®. Vratisl 1837. 4to. Feist, F. L., Ueber die Kopfgeschwulst der Neugebornen. Mainz, 1839. Chelius ; in Heidelb. Med. Annalen, vol. vi. 1851. Upon the heads of newly-born children there are not unfi quently observed soft, fluctuating, generally painless, circumscribed sw lings, upon which neither the hair nor the skin is at first affected, and the° interior of which, between the pericranium and the skull blood collected. It is usually seated on the parietal bones, more frequently th on the right side ; it has, however, been observed sometimes on the ba of the head, and on the forehead. It varies in size from that of a ha; nut to that of a hen’s egg, and even more. Sometimes, though rare': however, it spreads over the whole parietal bone, sometimes, thou;1 rarely, it spreads over both parietal bones at once; several of the. tumours of different size may also exist on different parts of the sku- Immediately after delivery, they are in general little raised andstretchel but they grow more quickly or slowly in the first few days, when t ■ swelling is less distended and pappy, and fluctuates. The skin coveri it, which was at first natural, afterwards assumes a shining, grayish, re dish-blue or violet colour, according to its tension and expansion. Son practitioners (Levret, Naegele, Hoere) have observed, by theappi cation of the hand, whilst the swelling is on the increase, a pulsation, o: peculiar hardness (Hey, Felder) in them, which, however, neither othe nor myself could perceive. When the base of the swelling is press with the finger, a firm, somewhat raised edge is felt, so that it seems* if a part of the bone were lost. Naegele’s opinion (6) that the blood swelling occurs only on the parietal boners. I opposition to the earlier statements (a) and to the observations of offers, (Momm Schneeman, Dieffenbach, Burchard,) who have noticed these blood swellings on occipital and frontal bones. 1852. In its further course, the tumour, if left alone and not lmmoc « rately handled, either diminishes gradually of itself, the blood bec0®“J] absorbed, and the pericranium re-applying itself, or, what is more usual, j the case, if the swelling be of large size, it undergoes a peculiar son metamorphosis, which consists in a thickening of the pericranium, ana- conversion into bone. The tumour lias a peculiar elasticity and pare- ment-like condition, so that when pressed, it is like a thin plate o 9 which after being pressed down, rises again, and has a peculiar crac ^ The swelling gradually becomes harder, and at last as hard as n UV that like an exostosis, it becomes firmly attached to the other bones; - then by degrees, in a space of time, between four and twelve tnoium, shrinks, and at. last entirely disappears, so that not the slightest trace m can be discovered. T first J This important metamorphosis, which the blood swelling und([£m;V Ffi«t 1 described, and pointed out its influence upon the .'treatment. Althhoi ascribed this observation to Schmitt (d), and has been followed by hig confirmed it, and though Naegele (e) has made no reference ‘o mv name u ject, those, however, who compare my essay of 1828, with those btfo time, will at least not misplace the plagiarism. , . 2 („) Feist, above cited, p.5-7. (rf) SaUburgt. Med.-Clur. Ze.tung., •• j (6) Erfahrungen und Abhandlungen, p. 24,, 1819. Traitc coniplet de lArt UUnT^n^en, vol. Iv. 1828. eoftuwns, voi.ii. p. 596. Fans, 1834. MON THE HEADS OF INFANTS. 449 ! first mentioned («) that Schmitt had pointed out this metamorphosis ; and nothing ijnre could be said of Schmitt’s observation. For according to Goelis, during the tatnient of a blood-swelling with caustic, when the tumour becomes as hard as bone, ■Bii. immovable, and is not dispersed by the maintenance of suppuration and the use !!• resolvent applications, it must be left alone, and gradually subsides. But Schmitt asserted the directly contrary and decidedly inapplicable explanation of this process, f>;iat the portion of bone lying beneath the swelling, which is at first pressed by the ght of the blood is, after the absorption of the blood, again raised up by an oscillation Bending on its own elasticity, to which the increased thinning of the bone, perhaps in- i' ved by its maceration in the blood, or the more influential act of absorption, seems to br.esome probability.” It may be further remarked, that this observation of Schmitt has . a noticed by no subsequent writer, and is not even hinted at in Zeller’s Dissertation. gU853. Any other termination of this disease, when left to itself, cannot c 11 happen. It is indeed stated, that if the blood can find no escape, it I rifles, is converted into a bluish, brownish, or soot-coloured substance, a ich is either thinly or thickly fluid, and has either a stale or putrid s ell; and as the thickening’ of the pericranium is prevented by the ! ernal discharge of the ichor, the surface of the bone is attacked, its rfole thickness destroyed, actual perforation of the skull takes place, and it .th follows. The blood-swelling may also sometimes run on to suppu- ion (b). From my own observation, however, as well as that of l- lers, I hold it decided that this result, although it may actually take j£e, is not to be ascribed directly to the blood-swelling itself, since, as effexbach has correctly remarked, the excess of blood, and the great 0 tntive condition of children, strongly withstands this mischievous effect 1 the pressure of the outpoured blood. Some other influences must, W Tefore, be added, as improper treatment with destructive remedies, tner after opening the swelling, or disease in the child, by which absorp- n is set up, and the destruction of the bone produced. I in which actual perforation of the skull has been observed, confirm the | e stated opinion, inasmuch as in all there was an opening of the tumour. Thus in I ty Na,egeee 0)> in which, after opening the swelling, the treatment ■ amJciseUsf!,;tKRA?Sf (f,)+5ase* Burcharb’s cases («), show also this perforation; I nsmeTtW Dt °f al -he prev\°us cond,tl°ns is wanting, and in one case it is I XtilSS ! of ,he cMId> “* ™th“’ • 8o4 The causes and modes of origin of blood-swellings are as nume- s as the various opinions which have been put forward in reference to the dart T^any -iaVe C0Lnsldered their generic relations as completely re nartt.if ?PenInCe sh?T8 ftft the^ °CCUr e8Pecia% after easy and, er breech f r7’ after q,mC,k la!?ours.; they have even been met with : force._ anm a f aft,®y dlfficult delivery and delivery with eased conrlvrhat eft6 ?lood'swellln8‘ 1S always accompanied with a * blood J"°n °f ft® ft06’ and destruction of its outer table, so that ■diet*! k°0ZeS °Ut °* tie rotten bone as out of a sponge is con- 'tc«L„byorS“ien? jhj roT."rSS of « welllX er dpenimr the ft tabft +whlch. 18 observed, not in all cases, tie late sgthe "g’ but Partlc"cularly when the opening is n. Th: consequence not the cause, and depends on absorp- I ler the pericrania 116 ft °°d’ ft extensive bursting, is poured out this, as well as toftl* no Prov®d by observation; and in opposition ,,) H*ndbucii Z he "° °f an onSinal disease of the bone, it ) Botch; Ilandbucli ilcr<\’nthVn,u'lnn- v . Cc) ^rfahr. unit AblmndL, p. 252. r ,nt')in'lungskun8t, (d Gemeinsame deuUche’Zeitschr. Kir Gobuxta- kunde, vol. vi. p.386. fOL. ir (e) Above cited. 2 GBLOOD-SWELLINGS 450 especially applies that when such are the actual causes the cure of disease cannot so easily follow. The assumption of a mere mechanical 4 fluence has therefore been attempted to be denied, in that this swelling ari ^ more frequently and immediately after difficult delivery, but of wh ' experience proves the direct contrary. Notwithstanding this objecti n the origin of these swellings from mechanical influence is, however, most probable, and is specially confirmed by their, in general, easy } s quick cure. We do not, therefore, trouble ourselves about a considera x degree of pressure, but specially about an unequal pressure, and endur 4 but for a short time, against a projecting or angular part, by which ; | vessels between the skull and pericranium are either torn or so injur 1 that they afterwards pour out the blood by transudation, in consequence; which, the origin of the swelling is first apparent a few days after bird The various opinions brought forward upon the nature of the blood-swellings of head, may be referred to the three following causes -.—first, primitive disease of bone; second, diseased condition of the vessels; and third, mechanical vide! Michaelis holds the first, that in all these swellings, the external table of the bon wanting, and the diploe bared; that the affection of the bone is primary, and the pc ing out of the blood secondary. Palletta also speaks in a similar way. 1 opinion, however, is contradicted by many cases, in which, on opening tl swellings, the bone has been found smooth, and the change which it, at a k period, somewhat suffers, is considered as the consequence of absorption, depend on the pressure of the blood. This entirely groundless opinion has, however, b recently again put forward by Langenbeck (a), so that the disease appears, in so > a vitium primes formationis as the tabula externa ossium calvaria at one part is deficient, so that the vena diploeticce are covered only by the pericranium, ga aponeurotica, and skin. As the vena diploeticce have very thin walls, so the bl< either escapes from them by rhe.ris or by transudation, and distends the pericranv into a fluctuating swelling to that point, where the external table is not deficient. 1 raised edge of bone surrounding the swelling thus points out the place where the t bones lie upon each other, at the boundary of the hollow. If the external table not wanting, it must, according to Langenbeck, be very porous, and many ves? penetrate it which serve as emissaria Santorini, and are the sources of the blood fou: in it and beneath the pericranium. A diseased condition of the blood vessels has been, in different ways, assumed as cause of these swellings. According to Naegele, perhaps the varicosity of the bk vessels penetrating the skull, which commence with the growth of the bones of' skull, and are torn previously to, or during birth, may cause the outpouring of 1 blood, the increase of which after birth may depend on respiration and the n circulation. Stein assumes an unnatural structure of the vessels; von Siebold similar condition to ncevus materials (teleangiectasy ?); Brandac and Hi t-mu* I original weakness of the vessels, as he has found these swellings only children ; Schneeman, a loose connexion of the periosteum with the bone in but U well-grown children, and the rush of blood in the ensuing respiration; and attributed the cause to the encircling of the neck with the navel-string in weakly, dren. von Ammon (i) imagines, that according to the pathological obsernn Hcere, Osiander, Bgrchard, and others, the vascular system of the bones* dura mater, as well as the pericranium, are changed by disease. He mm*“* sometimes found the veins enlarged upon, and in the bones of the head. By indeed, scarcely depends upon a deficient developement, hut is to be considered as sequent on a pathological formative process. . . ,_'ja Osiander (c) asserts, that a small artery, mostly a vatculum cimssarium ,oars- , v 1 N <1 n iL- 1 1 1 noroiuct tin' OllC Siuc by the blood collecting or from pressure, if the head be squeezed against the one the pelvis, or by the forceps if unequally applied, and that the^swelbng^ the pelvis, or ny tne lorceps u unequauy appneu, auu . c • r fonn takes place, especially on the parietal bones, where the emissaria Santorini a Wendt, Klein, Capuron, and Carus attribute it to the pressure on the nea its passage through the pelvis-, Becker (d), on the skull-bones being , (a) von Ammon’s Mormlsschrift fiir Medicin, Augenheilkunde und Chirurgie, vol. i. p. 76. (i) DieChirurgiscliePatliologlo in Abbildungen, vol. i. p. 20. (c) Ilandbuch der Entbindungskunde, vo . P’(d) Hufkland’s Journal, vol. Ivii. pb >"• 80. 1823.451 ON THE HEADS OF INFANTS. ccmaxn' (a), on the great overlapping of the parietal bones during delivery; j&okurba (o), on a distension of the soft parts of the head, accompanied with greater ■h] less pressure, and depending rather on one, than on the coincidence of several ij ises, in which the vessels, in consequence of the peculiar condition of the infant .!> janism, permit a trickling through of the blood. Bartsch assumes a me- ■ , mical violence, which presses on a projecting part of the bone, (as, for in- fo nee, the crest of the hip-bone,) for a short time, and unequally, or a violent fa .ugh short enduring irritation with which the vessels are affected, and which, it-.ether with the influx of the blood from the commencing respiration, they jpioiot withstand, and transude the blood through the weakened walls of the vessels. A*! cl Dubois (c) seeks for the cause in the peculiar structure of the bones of the head, lit their still imperfect ossification, they present fibres lying near each other, which i - m the elevation of the parietal bone, diverge, as from a common focus, towards the fcphery. Between these bony fibres there remain small fine clefts, which have not ■her the length or whole thickness of the bone. They exhibit a correspondently I ngy structure, appear to be penetrated with a large quantity of blood, so that after ! removal of the pericranium and dura mater, the blood may be squeezed out of these es and interspaces. The blood appears therefore during life to be enclosed in interspaces of the bony fibres by the dura mater and pericranium, and to stand : lose relation with them. If now one or other of these membranes be deficient at small part, an outpouring of blood takes place, and this may happen from any ■Jence operating on the head of the foetus in its passage through a narrow pelvis, its passage over hard, unyielding walls, or by the application of the forceps, the same way, on account of an original disposition, the natural connexion of ‘ pericranium at a certain point may be so weak, that the impulse even of the cir- i ntion may raise it up. In a similar manner, even a disease of the bone, as it t peases the influx of blood, can produce outpouring of blood by its destroying the iral connexion of the pericranium. Busch (d) observed on the hind-head of a |id, probably many days dead, and delivered by the violent use of the forceps, a It!sh, blood-sac, on opening which, there appeared a communication with the sinus. Me opinion founded on this circumstance as to the origin of blood-swellings of the - Id is less to be received, as the case was not that blood-swelling of the head which or, are now considering. Flint (e) describes a similar case of an outpouring of blood pi the hind-head of a child several days after birth, which, as dissection proved, i, connected by an opening in the diseased bone with the sinus of the brain ; on which :j bunt, the child died after a cut had been made into it. . 855. The result of the examination of the cavities of these blood- % ‘*!inSs after their previous opening during life, or on examination after iYth, varies according to the different period of the course of the disease, d the beginning, the blood is found more pale-red, and fluid ; afterwards, thicker, clotted, and blackish blood, even a tough jelly, (Palletta,) ; king to the bone, is collected between the skull and the pericranium. i :e external surface of the bone is sometimes rather wasted but smooth ttrietimes rough and eaten away, and, under the already mentioned b'turns tan ces, the destruction of the bone is more considerable, and pene- •ing even to the dura mater. At the commencement of the swelling W pericranium is firmly attached to the bone, but afterwards, when W cation begins from the pericranium, a delicate bony layer is observed : fits internal surface, and, as it were, attached to it (Krauss) ; and if ILT' f process extend further, a cartilaginous layer with some s of bone, or a firm bony plate appears, which imperceptibly passes . 0uter. surface of the bone at the base of the swelling, and from hrCan be seParated as easily as from every other part of -‘lone. I he cavity beneath this bony plate is filled with a grumous, i Py> gelatinous mass. (Buuchaud.) The upper surface of the skull 0**treicli. Mt'd?iahrbncher w,)'iv n <111 Schadel-Rliitgeschwulste neugehorener Kinder; 1 Above cited. ,vol. iv. p. 4.1, in Heidelberger klinischen Annnlen.vol. ii. p. 245. ) Kin Beitrag7,ur Aufkliirung des Wescn, der p. tnB,and Jonrn,‘l of Medicine, vet. ix. 2 a 2BLOOD-SWELLINGS 452 bones is rough, porous, and intimately connected with the gelatinous ma in some cases even perforated. (Burchard.) If when the dura malerbe gradually wasted, that part of the bone be examined, in children w u have afterwards died, where it has been eaten away, upon removing skin not the slightest alteration is found, the 'pericranium, is in its natu ;nj condition, and may be just as well separated as at other parts ; on : <j bone itself there is observed only to the extent which the earlier bio. tl swelling had occupied, a greater thickening which especially afievs the outer table, and on sawing through the bone a greater development:* diploe; otherwise there is no change of texture in the bone. These sli^fl variations even are probably entirely lost (a). Burchard, from the existence of this bony layer beneath the pericranium, .jfi led himself into a mistake, by supposing it the raised and expanded outer tabUM the bone; and hence has arisen the opinion of a blood-swelling, in which the bU i at is collected between the two plates of bone. The falsity of this opinion is pro'® by what I have above stated as to the course of the ossifying process in hlood-swi ings. It is further completely irreconcilable with the anatomical character of the sk-' :■( bones of a newly-born child, in which nothing can he said of a diploe, in its pecu-x sense, perhaps even only at certain parts of an external and internal plate. 1856. The distinguishing characters of blood-swellings from oth tumours on the heads of newly-born children, for instance, the cornuu head swelling, (caput succedaneum,) the congenital hernia cerebri, t so-called water-bags, and the blood-sacs, which are connected with one the sinuses (Bush, Flint) are, their circumscribed, elastic, fluctuate i nature; their usual seat on the parietal bones, and the impossibil 1 of diminishing them by pressure, in which no symptoms of pressor on the brain arise. It must, however, be observed in reference 4 congenital hernia cerebri, that when, as usual, it happens in the sutu » and fontanels, its existence is proved by anatomical examination at otl than at the seat of the sutures (b). The pulsation which is also given a characteristic sign in hernia cerebri, is not always distinctly perceptit j and even in blood-swellings may be observed ; the pulsation, however, ♦ hernia cerebri is always more decidedly manifest than in blood-swellin In hernia cerebri an actual opening in the bone can be felt; in the Ik < blood-swelling, when the tumour is not very tense, the bone may be 1 by pressing strongly upon it, inasmuch as in these swellings the hard ec > at its base is not formed by loss of substance of the bone, but by t1 swelling of the soft parts, as in common boils. In the blood-sacs c(< nected with a sinus, the diagnosis is founded on the perceptible edge of t pieces of bone, and the possibility of diminishing the swelling by pressu- A blood-swelling cannot be confused with oedema capitis; from the s called partial external hydrocephalus, in which the wrater is collected unc the galea aponeurotica or the pericranium itself, is a distinction scarce g possible ; the existence of such kind of watery head is rightly doubtt \ External violence which produces bumps, always more or less injui | the skin, which is tinged with blood and discoloured. The diagno j of the blood-swelling may be very difficult when the ossifying process already proceeded far, and the tumour has not been previously set-j Osiander (c) manifestly fell into this mistake, against which only * j observation of its peculiar elasticity, and careful inquiry of its earui condition can guard us. (a) My observations in Ileidelb. kliniscli. An- (6) Hofuno, Zwei Falle von Hirnhmeh{ 1 Xialen, vol. vi. p. 541. 1830. Casper’s Wochenschrift. 1835. >o. —>• (tr) Ilandbuch tier Entbiudungskunst, vol. ii.par. 203. Tubing., 18-1.453 ON THE HEADS OF INFANTS. [|j' Osiander believes the common blood-swellings cannot be confused with the congeni- til diseased bone swellings, which certainly belong to those very great rarities, in which ie bone is swollen in the diploe (?), in which swelling however the upper table is u .'.ever wanting, but only spongy and raised. With such swellings of the bone nothing >'"in be done; and cutting into them would certainly always be followed by death, if*hat Osiander here has mistaken blood-swellings which had already gone on to ossi- ; A-ation, and has given of them, as has Burchard, a false description, there can be no 1 Lmbt . In a case, where two swellings on the right parietal hone, the one more than • e other presented the above-mentioned conditions, and in which several practitioners serted a suspicious degeneration of the bone, I made known the true nature of the dis- r se and advised its being opened ; and its fortunate result verified my opinion, coagu- iheil blood escaping after the opening. In another case which I showed Naegele, he mitted that he should not have known it for a blood-swelling (a). ( 1857. The prognosis, if the disease be properly treated, is generally not ^favourable, if it be unconnected with syphilis or atrophy. All blood- i.ellings on the heads of newly-born children either disperse in the space * fourteen or twenty-one days by absorption of the blood poured out ’■neath the pericranium, or they subside after a longer time, after the j veiling- has become as hard as bone, very gradually. From the fear of .e bone becoming affected from the continuance of the blood under je pericranium, from the opening of the tumour being omitted or Jayed, which is not supported by experience, and from not knowing Dat. happens to these swellings if left alone, persons have been led to 3. e proposal of the most different reasons for their treatment. At least Ahave seen, up to the present time, in many cases where the pericra- I mot has been ossified, very large swellings subside without a single B Cident, in the course of a year. ■\858. The treatment of blood-swellings aims either at their dispersion I' increasing the activity of the absorbents and thus removing the blood 1 eniptying the blood by opening the swelling. 11859. I’lle dispersion of these tumours is usually attempted by vinous, c. imatic applications, by applying a solution of hydrochlorate of ammonia’ i. d wash diluted, arquebusade, decoction of oak bark, and the like. It ? pears, however, that with the application of these remedies, the neces- Idly accompanying slight compression perhaps contributes more to the v the mere °Peration of the remedies. I know instances in 1 he dispersion of these swellings followed simply from compression J "J Pad anc] a c]ose-fitting hood ; and it must also not be forgotten that W In°\these swellings, especially if they be small, entirely subside with- - ■ m/ftrmt™nt' Henschel and Schneemann have recommended as r.Zf e?1(CkIent remedy, compression by means of a hood, lined opposite IwTrrii/i HeSWe Wlt,h S6yeral folds of tinfoil. In no case should > whipli ;m° °r^°1C1 aPP lcatl?nf) or much compression be employed; ► Jbt ui mar.llfold1 respects injurious influence might be excited. I U vly-bohrri f.CMlViere bi a S'ugle CaSe °f blood-swelling of the head of * , bad res.d dren’ tum0ur was left to itself> which ever had r< cessarv • n, i’ °t f whl?h the °Pening would have been considered (i m ten to f T * io}Tmer]J asserted on this Point, that if in a space of 1 not dimin'isl T 1 T’ th® :swe.,hnS under the above-named treatment I?eSze Tt w!bei^U^t remained equally large, and was of unusually I )erience assert hof tf-^V1Sable to. °Pen 80 can I now from repeated iger It u thls Practice is to be considered safe and free from must, however, apply only to those cases which occur very («) My observations; in Heidelberg, klinisch. Annalen, vol. iv.BLOOD-SWELLINGS ON THE HEADS OF INFANTS. 454 rarely; so that the opening- is only the exception,and not as most writ r on this disease have laid down, to be taken as the rule. If the procesftji ossification have already begun, nothing must be done except leaving . 4 swelling entirely to itself, because after opening, the upper wall cam 3 on account of its firm nature, apply itself, and a tedious suppuration ij sues, as I have in one case witnessed. An early opening is equally objectionable, because in consequence of it there is 0 i a considerable escape of pale-red blood, whilst in a later made cut black blood is t! charged in no great quantity. The application of lunar caustic upon the swelling, and the keeping up suppura § after the separation of the slough for the purpose of favouring the dispersion of the • I mour, as recommended by Goelis (a), is on many grounds objectionable (b). 1860. Opening the swelling is best done with a lancet to such ext' j as to allow the blood to flow out freely. Some threads of fine 1 ;< must be placed between the edges of the wound, and fixed with stick;! plaster ; and over all a compress and close-fitting hood. For the £lj few days ordinarily a somewhat bloody, afterwards a yellowish serous, il at last a somewhat purulent fluid is discharged; but on renewing .1 dressings after a few days the integuments have generally become in so- degree united to the skull, and the cure soon follows. If, after rl opening of the swelling, the surface of the bone appear rough, the dress;-.; in this simple way must be employed. Opening the swelling by a crucial cut or throughout its whole length, is unnecess and improper; the introduction of a seton (Palletta) is objectionable. The sin: puncture of the swelling with the lancet, and closing the opening, may, if at the sf I time dispersing remedies and a compress be used, effect a cure. Should the fluid ►I lect again, the united edges of the wound may be easily separated with a probe, and il fluid having been discharged, the cure follows. When Dieffenbach observed, a ' small incisions, a secretion of ichor for several weeks, without the skin adhering in least, and after a free opening that a speedy cure ensued, and wheu von Ammos s ) poses that the blood-swellings more frequently heal artificially than by the natr- powers, the cut for assisting the discharge of the blood, the production of an adbeaj inflammation, or of a fresh natural activity, must be carried deep down to the peril nium, even into the diploe, and not merely through the whole extent of the swelh but into the sound parts of the neighbouring coverings of the head, inasmuch as sn cuts, which are rather punctures than cuts, produce venous bleeding from the vanrt vessels, difficult to be stanched, and which can only be stopped by a proper long £. deep cut. My own experience and that of others so completely contradicts this, t these bad consequences must certainly be ascribed more to some other circumstances^ the treatment, the time of the operation, and the like, rather than to the kind of openi Further, as regards von Ammon’s opinion, it may be observed that what I have alre«l sought to employ against Bubchakd, applies to it also. .1 Hoere (c) describes a case of a simultaneous collection of blood between the jw™| nium and the skull, and the dura mater and the skull, with which there was at the at spot a penetrating cleft of the bone. The internal swelling was as large as a P'P1’? egg, and had formed a pit in the brain of corresponding depth. The outer table Ov skull was unchanged, but the inner was eaten away, and at one place entirely winmw at one spot also production of bone seemed to have again begun. If Hoerf- suppc that the internal swelling had arisen first, and that by the changes of the bone• 1 sure had been depeudent on the birth, when the blood collected beneath the j had sunk down during birth, for which the destruction of the inner table spoke, jyyj this a merely voluntary assumption, and incorrectly has been founded upon 1]| ® ’ , of blood-swellings of the skull into internal and external, a division which « . I assumed, and added the collection of blood between the plates of the skull ,1S ])5 . form of these swellings, against the admission of which I have already given r (a) Saint). Med.-Chir. Zeitung, 1822. No. 81, vol. ii. Wien, 1819.—in Salih. jj „ 47,—Praktische Abhandlungen liber die vor- Cliir. Zeit., 1819. No.'-1, p. a-., ziicllchjten Krankheiten des kindliehen Alters, (b) ZiLi.KB, above cited. (c) Above cited.[ 455 ] II.—OF H/EMATOCELE. ([Hematocele, Lat.; Blutbrucli, Germ.; Hematocele, Fr.) Pott Percival, The Cliirurgical Works of, vol. ii. p. 382. London, 1783. ij,. Foelett, Journal de Medecine continue, vol. xiii. p. 422. s< Cooper, Sir Astley, Observations on the Structure and Diseases of the Testicle. 209. London, 1830. 4to. Brodie, B. C., A Clinical Lecture on Hydrocele and Hsematocele in London Medi- al Gazette, vol. ix. p. 926. 1832. Curling, Thomas B., A Practical Treatise on the Diseases of the Testicle and of the permatic Cord and Scrotum, p. 236. London, 1843. 8vo. 1861. Hcematocele is a large outpouring of blood into the various cov- rings of the testicle. The extravasation may be seated in the cellular ssue of the scrotum, in the vaginal tunic, or in the testicle itself. [This division of hsematocele is similar to that made by Pott ; but among most lodern British Surgeons the term is restricted to a collection of blood within the va- nal tunic alone. Herbert Mayo (a), however, observes:—“ This term is given to two Sections, one elfusion of blood, the other of sanguinolent serum into the tunica vaginalis. ■ he latter, I believe, may alternate with hydrocele, the secretion being from an acci- ental cause dark and turbid at one time, clear and serous at another. It may likewise use from blood being mixed with the serum of the hydrocele, in consequence of a .•uise on the testes, or from a vessel having been punctured in tapping a pre-existing Hrocele.”] 1862. The yielding nature of the cellular tissue in the scrotum, the vze of its cells, and the absence of fat render the production of this out- lburing of the blood easy, and permits a very considerable enlargement. t: he usual cause is external violence, a blow on the scrotum and the like ; Bso a wound in which the bleeding vessel cannot be tied may give rise . »it. That severe compression of the abdominal walls whilst the breath Mheld should cause haamatocele is unlikely. According to the size of foe injured vessel is the hematocele more quickly or slowly formed. The ridour of the swollen scrotum is more or less violet or dark, and the nwelling, although tense, is usually not painful. Similar ourpourings of .,ood, in women, occur in the labia. fThis form of the disease, Pott says, “ consists in a rupture of and effusion of blood i pm a branch of the spermatic vein in its passage from the groin to the testicle. In 8 nlc“ case, the extravasation is made into the tunica communis, or cellular membrane , .o muuo uvfumu/us, ui ceiiuiar membrane ■l nesting the spermatic vessels.” (p. 385.) Upon this point Brodie justly observes " | “e t,ssu? here (the cellular tissue of the scrotum) is exceedingly loose as in the eye- 's-and slight injury will rupture vessels and produce ecchymosis; but the name of anatocele is here improperly applied.” (p. 927.)] 1863. This outpouring of blood, although it may be considerable, ge- -rally disperses by antiphlogistic treatment, cold applications, the testicle ft1"?*11!the same time supported with a bag truss, and rest being enjoined, this do not happen, and the swelling become more considerable, the col- »ued blood must be discharged by several deep cuts, the bleeding vessels l u a-nt tl<Td; .°r lf thls be not Possible, the bleeding must be ucneu by msertiner lint moistened in some .nsfrinfr»n+ u.. ^(inched by inserting lint moistened in some astringent wash, and by ap- ! y>ng a close fitting bag truss. ’ J 1 (o) Outlines of Human Pathology, p. 561. London, 1836. Bvo,HfEMATOCELE. 456 1864. The htsmatocele which arises from a collection of blood in t vaginal tunic of the testicle is either consequent on a wound of a vessel ij that tunic in puncturing a hydrocele, or of the tearing of swollen vesse if which, in the quick drawing off the water, are suddenly deprived of the: $ accustomed pressure, or it may arise from a bruising of the scrotum. ' .1 the former case the swelling in general arises soon after the puncture, i the second it is more tedious. The diagnosis is in other respects eas. . In the third case the swelling has a resemblance to hydrocele; it, ho' , ever, generally arises more quickly, and is not transparent. If the blo<t« be partially coagulated, the swelling may, on account of its finer and irr > gular character, be mistaken for a sarcocele. Not unfrequently a haemun tocele of distinct portions occurs without violence, but from transudatir, 1 of blood, especially in gravel, and cannot be distinguished from a hydroceh < or there may be a bloody exudation with varicosity of the vessels in o t and very large hydroceles, in degeneration of the vaginal tunic and so o which is only discovered in the operation for hydrocele. Sometimes s 1 old persons mortification and death quickly follow (a). [Brodie says :—“ Hsematocele most frequently occurs in combination with hydrocc- i the blood being mixed with the fluid contained in the tunica vaginalis, and partial 3 dissolved in it. If the quantity of blood be small, which is most frequently the cas the solution is complete; but when otherwise, coagula are formed, which remain nndsj solved.” (p. 927.) Upon this point I must observe that I do not recollect to have seej a single instance in which haematocele followed the operation for hydrocele, though, am well aware that the disease is occasionally so produced, in consequence of tl trocar wounding the testicle, if the,vaginal tunic be thick and rather more than ordtj nary effort be used for its introduction; but I have never seen such a case, thought have seen many of haematocele produced by a blow.—j. r. s. Brodie mentions a remarkable “ case, where the extravasation was so great that tl tunica vaginalis was ruptured, and the blood escaped in large quantity into the cellule membrane of the scrotum.” (p. 927.) Astley Cooper mentions the case of “ a gentleman who had a large pyrnon swelling in the left tunica vaginalis, which had never been painful, and which liadM obscure fluctuation, but was not transparent. He made an incision into it, andai i charged near a pint of fluid blood. This swelling had not succeeded a blow, bntwij imputed to excessive exertions which this gentleman had been in the habit of making, (p. 214.)] 1865. Outpouring of blood into the vaginal tunic is rarely disperset i Cold resolving applications and the treatment above advised {par. looofl may be attempted, but if of no advantage, the vaginal tunic must opened, the blood discharged, any wounded vessel tied, and in a decide* I hydrocele the necessary treatment may lead to a radical cure (1). [(1) Upon this point Chelius is in error, so far as I have had opportunity of j serving these cases, as the blood is generally absorbed without difficulty in the coarwai of two or three weeks. The contrary is the exception.—J. F. s. _ , Of the length of time which a lucmatocele may exist without causing trouble A • ^ Cooper relates a remarkable instance, in which a hccmatocele “ as large as the fist had existed seventeen years, had not been attended with any pain, and its si _ weight were the only inconveniences it produced. Its cause the patient attnhu { blow, in hunting, from the pummel of the saddle, which gave him great F' ... j short time. The testes and epidymis could be felt at the lower part of the . j 9 and above it to the ring, a solid substance united with a fluid could be ejijD. \ was not in the least transparent, and he had never suffered pain in it. i• h ,]ov . was opened, a coffee-coloured fluid, blood and solid substance of a brov n J Jikt , colour was discharged, the tunica vaginalis was excessively thickened, 1 * ch , the densest parchment.” In the course of the same day, after riding feinted u iie was seized with a profuse haemorrhage from the tunica vaginalis, (a1 Excrcitationcs Pathological, p. 201.OUTPOURING OF BLOOD INTO THE JOINT-CAVITIES. 457 | Much constitutional excitement followed, clots of blood and profuse purulent discharge I endued, and after six weeks he got well.” (p. 210-12.) E More commonly, however, if the outpoured blood be not absorbed in a few weeks, it Si becomes an irritant, suppuration is set up within the vaginal tunic to get rid of itthe S scrotum on that side becomes of a dusky-red colour, and more or less tender, and, if left tf, alone, will sometimes point, and then clots of blood with bloody pus are discharged, and • continue till the whole sac is emptied, when healthjTsuppuration follows, and the cavity | the tunic is obliterated, I have seen two or three instances of this kind. When its H existence is suspected it is best to make a free cut from top to bottom of the vaginal tunic so as to empty its contents at once, healthy suppuration soon comes on, and the ;p oatient is cured.—J. F. S.] 1866. As to the outpouring of blood into the substance of the testicle, itj t is probable that it may be confused with some organic changes of that $i organ ; and if, in consequence of a violent bruising, blood be extravasated if: .vithin the tunica albuginea, and the above-recommended treatment, i#i castration must be considered necessary. ; [As the formation of hydrocele has been already shown (par. 1199, note) to take place •occasionally in the spermatic cord, so does hsematocele, ,as was noticed by Pott, who — ays“ The last species of this disease (hsematocele) arises from a bursting of a branch i )f the spermatic vein, between the groin and the scrotum, in what is generally known by itt ;he name of the spermatic process. This, which is generally produced by great or sud- felen exertions of strength, feats of agility, &c., may happen to persons in the best health. * * The effusion or extravasation is made into the cellular membrane which invests rrtnd envelopes the spermatic vessels, and has something the appearance of a true hernia.” 6; pp. 391, 92.) If discutient remedies be unavailing, Pott recommends the swelling J ;hould be cut into, and either the bleeding stanched with styptics, or, if the vessel be t arge, that it should be tied singly, and if that be insufficient, that even the testicle should arue removed, and the whole end tied. L Curi.ing says :—“An encysted hydrocele of the spermatic cord may beconvertedinto Bi n hsematocele. In the Pathological Museum of St. Bartholomew’s Hospital there is a bh preparation of encysted hsematocele of the spermatic cord. The cyst is empty, but it y s described to have contained blood, and its walls are deeply stained with the colour n >f partially decomposed blood. Its lining membrane is wrinkled and coarsely granular, PM thte tissues around it are thickened, tawny, and adherent together. I lately ex- l -mined a preparation in the Hunterian Collection, which I have no doubt is a specimen a ’’fold encysted hsematocele of the spermatic cord. There is a good sized cyst, lined by 1 membrane, polished, and a little wrinkled, filled with a soft tawny-looking granular ,j natter, resembling the altered coagulum of blood which I have observed in ordinary ucmatocele after long maceration in spirit. The tissues around the cyst are thickened Vfi-.m indurated, just like those around an old hsematocele of the testicle.” (pp. 249, 50.)] - III. OF OUTPOURING OF BLOOD INTO THE CAVITIES OF JOINTS. 1867. A collection of blood in the cavity of a joint occurs rarely, and f1!5 only the consequence of a violent bruise or wrench of a joint, or of a : vound, if the blood cannot escape through the outer opening. The quick iR ecurrence of the swelling after one of the above-mentioned causes, dis- inguishes it from other swellings. id menlions an instance of blood getting within the capsular ligament of the - , "^-joint in consequence of a wound, but no harm followed, and it was absorbed without avmg caused any inconvenience.] If J i iThe !reatment consists in the use of cold applications, general R'", local antiphlogistic remedies, by which dispersion is effected. In ner respects the rules laid down (par. 557 and onwards) must be borne (a) Practical Observations on Surgery, p. 354.(a) Essaies sur l'Anatomie I’atliologiquc en gr-iuJrnl, vol. i. p. 306. Paris, 1316. Third Section.—COLLECTIONS OF DISEASED PRODUCTS. I.—OF DROPSY OF THE MUCOUS SACS. (Hydrops bursarum mucosarum, Lat.; Wassersucht der Sclileimbeutel, Germ.; /. dropisie des Bourses muqveuses, Fr.) Koch, C. M., Untersuchung des natiirlichen Baues und der Krankheiten der Schlebdi beutel. Niirnberg, 1795. 8vo. Monro, Alexander, M.D. (secnndus.) A Description of all the Bursae Mucosae. > the Human Body, &c. Edinburgh, 1788. fol. Brodie, Sir Benjamin, Pathological and Surgical Observations on the Diseases a the Joints. London, 1834. 8vo. Third Edition. Schreger, B. G., De Bursis mucosis subcutaneis ; cum ix. tab. Erlang., 1825. f( Mayo, Herbert, Outlines of Human Pathology, p. 110. London, 1836. 8vo. 1869. Dropsy of a mucous sac produces a swelling, fluctuating, pect liarly elastic, in general not, but sometimes very painful; most general) occurring on the hip- knee- ankle- wrist- elbow- and shoulder-joints, an., having the skin over it of its natural colour. At first it is circumscribe! • and does not extend over the whole joint; its extent, however, may 1 very considerable. [Mayo says:—“ The bursa situated between the latissimas dorsi and the inferiorang of the scapula, is liable to become distended with a very considerable quantity of fluid, (p. 111.) He also observes, that “pressure will cause the developement of subci taneous bursa in the cellular tissue, where they previously had no existence.” (jib.) Tb is the comman opinion, but it must be taken with some caution, as the number of niucoc bags just beneath the skin is much greater than commonly supposed, so that one of ther originally existing, may only have become dropsical, and then first only have attracte. notice. There seems, however, little doubt that they are actually produced sometime when a part is subject to great pressure.—J. F. S.] 1870. This disease may be produced by external violence, by sprainim the joint, or by pressure ; or by cold, rheumatic, gouty or scrofulous disease, * and after the frequent use of mercury. The cause of the unnatural col lection appears to be always an inflammatory condition of the inner mem brane of the mucous sac, which corresponds in its physiological and patho- logical nature to synovial membrane. This inflammation is at first oftei very great, and appears to be related to the cause on which it depends The fluid is mostly thin, sometimes more consistent, jelly-like, and oftei. contains a great number of cartilaginous concrements, of whitish colour, smooth surface, and different size, often felt distinctly on examination ol the joint, and made up of coagulated albumen. The membrane of the mucous sac is often very much thickened, and nearly cartilaginous. I the swelling be highly inflamed, it may run on to suppuration, the pus mat be poured out beneath the skin, and considerable destruction and fistulous passages may ensue. This is very frequently the case upon the front o 1 the knee-joint. j Undoubtedly here belongs a peculiar kind of encysted swelling, described by , veluier (a), which is most frequent on the front of the wrist, less so upon its bac ’ jai more rarely at the ankle-joint, but always occurring in the neighbourhood ™ h capsules and tendons, most commonly divided into two halves connected witn, nu459 DROPSY OF THE MUCOUS SACS. 1 each other, by an opening in the tracks of two neighbouring ligaments, and containing besides a quantity of serous or synovial fluid, a larger or smaller number, even up to a 1 hundred, of oblong, smooth bodies, composed of numerous layers, from the size of an 31 oat, to that of a bean. The mucous sheaths of tendons are similar to mucous sacs, and the swellings deve- j0ped jn them, which contain a thin or more consistent fluid, (ganglia, Lat.; Ueberbeine . Germ.; ganglions, Fr.,) must, at least the greater number of them, be classed with v dropsy of the mucous sac3. [Partial enlargements of the sheaths of tendons by the collection of a fluid like ■ synovia within them, forming what are commonly called ganglions, sometimes occur in B very uncommon situations; I have in one or two instances seen a ganglion as big as a .pigeon's egg, and very hard, from its fulness, in the inner hamstring, just above the knee- joint. I have at present under my care, a young man, who after a little more than ordi- A nary exertion, had a swelling come almost suddenly just where the tendon of the m. sar- torius turns round the upper part of the shin-bone, and extending up into the ham, so as *v to have somewhat the appearance, at first sight, of a popliteal aneurysm, and nearly as I large as a goose egg, tense and free from pain. In the course of a fortnight it subsided ; -under the use of cold evaporating lotions.—J. F. S.] 1871. Among the dropsies of the mucous sacs, those are most frequent ri: which are seated on the knee-cap ; they are painless, without any altera- >- tion of colour in the skin, soft, elastic, compressible, of a spongy feel, A mostly oval, and always distinctly defined, or they are bean-shaped, puffy, Uphauging down from the knee, or more elevated in breadth. How- ever variously their extent may exceed that of the knee-cap, yet is ■ their base, however, always alone confined to it, and has no other attach- ment; and although the mass itself be movable in every direction, yet the » base can never be moved from this one spot. The fluid it contains is mserum, in which are frequently similar little bodies, to those found in the i mucous bags (1). Schreger (a) calls this swelling, which is usually 7 known by the name of Knee-fungus (Fungus genu, Lat.; Knieschwamm, r Germ.) or as dropsy of the mucous sac on the head of the shin-hone, an r. encysted dropsical sioellmg on the lmee-cap, (Hygroma cysticum patellare, : lat. ; Wasserbalgyeschiuulst ciuf der Kniescheihe, Germ.,) in which the ■i serous fluid is contained in a space naturally existing upon the upper sur- 0 face of the knee-cap, (bursa subcutanea patellaris,) but not in the mucous ^-bag on the head of the shin-bone (b), or in the fine plates of the cellular ai-fmbstance (c), or in a newly-formed sac like a true encysted swelling (d). This swelling upon the knee-cap is to be classed with that seated on the f olechranon, in the bursa anconea, appears mostly in old people, and in !• which the above-mentioned little bodies are observed in quantities. These 1 two swellings, especially that on the knee-cap are often accompanied at ! first with violent inflammation. The mucous sacs are capable of a degeneration in which an homogeneous, tough, moderately fabrous mass, connected with their walls, is formed, and gradually enlarges ell!len°r’T10U'S,S!Ze' 1 have Vot,iced swellings of this kind on the knee-cap and at the r/i" an(^ ^ave removed them successfully. All other treatment is useless. J 118 enlargement of the mucous bag upon the knee-cap is so very frequent among women servants, that it has acquired, and usually goes by the name of “ House- aoon th ''u0' t I1 !S also extremely common to observe the same kind of enlarged bag |i^^requent^ir^iu^e°—CJ.s!'] " ^ perSOn’S elbow havinS been subJect to * *ie, treat™?nt must be guided by the circumstances of the ^ weuing, and according to the causes with which it is related. Their Above cited p/Ti ' Sit’ V°'" ^ (?) Russell, .Tames, A Treatise on the Morbid (t) Cooper; SAMmi „„ 1L >■ • . Affections of the Knee Joint. Edin., 1802. Svo. }?• 74. London ISO? ' • sea of oints, (d) von Walther ; in his Journal for Chirurgie und Augenheilkunde, vol iv. p. 390.460 DEOPSY OF THE MUCOUS SACS; TREATMENT. dispersion is always the object, and if this cannot be effected, the dischar^ •{■ of the collected fluid and the growing together of the cavity of the mucoi sac. 1873. If the swelling be inflamed and painful, cold applications lead wash, leeches, and rubbing in mercurial ointment must be employee I afterwards when the inflammation has ceased, or the fluid still remain •, blisters kept up for some time, or rubbing in volatile ointments. If tl inflammation of the mucous sac be very severe, arising from mechanics : influence on a previously painless swelling of the sac, and if the swelling be very great, then usually all dispersive remedies are useless, and it mua be cut into to prevent the spreading of the suppuration. Serous flui and floccy pus escape, and the treatment is to be the same as after openin abscesses. If the swelling be, as usual, painless, volatile rubbings, Ion continued blisterings, warm douche baths, dispersing plasters, and the lit are employed, together with which those remedies are made use of whic counteract the general ill condition of the constitution ; among which have found vinurn seminum colchici of the greatest service, especially i gouty and rheumatic complaints («). 1874. If by this treatment the dispersion be not effected, and the stil increasing tumour cause inconvenience, it must be emptied by a punctur or a cut, and by the introduction of tents, by irritating the inner surfaci of the swelling with the blunt end of a probe, by injections especially o solution of iodine, by the insertion of a seton, or by a subcutaneous cu to produce such a degree of inflammation as will put a stop to all secre- tion (b). It must not, however, be forgotten that inflammation and sup- puration of a large mucous sac may produce dangerous symptoms. Il the walls of the sac be very much thickened, this mode of treatment can. be of no service, and it may be necessary, if the situation of the swelling permit, to remove the sac either entirely or so that its hinder walls alone remain, and be thrown off'by suppuration. The treatment of encysted dropsical swellings on the knee-cap agrees precisely with what has been just laid down, except that Heister’s prescription (c), consisting of litharge gvj., Armenian bole 3j-> mastic and myrrh of each 3iv., and vinegar a pint, boiled together for a quarter of an hour, and applied to the swelling on a folded cloth, four or six times a day, and keeping the patient quiet, with a moderately tightly applied bandage, will in most cases produce either the cure at once, or after the swelling has been punctured. In the encysted swellings, {par. 1870,) described by Cruyelhi f.r (d), it is not, accord- ing to Dupuytren, sufficient merely to open them with one puncture, but two should be made, and a seton introduced. It may, however, be sufficient in most cases, to open the swelling on both sides, and to use irritating injections, as the irritation of the seton may produce very violent inflammation and fatal symptoms. According to Lenoir (e), three mucous sacs are found on the sole of the foot, one under the heel-bone, an inch in length, the second on the under surface of the joint of the great toe, between the skin and sesamoid bones, and the third on the little toe at the same part, with a lengthening on the outer edge of the foot. The dropsy of these mucous sacs or their inflammation, with the serous exudation, may lie easily taken for abscesses. If opened, they readily become fistulous, produce ill-conditioned pus. ana are covered with a thickened epidermis. In inflammation, a corresponding antiphlogistic treatment, poultices, cuts, cauterization, or excision must be employed. Cliirurgische (а) Giehi, J. M.. Medicinisch Beobachtungen. London, 1807. (б) Upon cutting into these swellings beneath the skin and into ganglia especially, see Bartho- lemy, Chaumat, Markchal; in Gazette Medi- cale de Paris, vol. vii. p.773.1839.—Mai.oaione ; in Bullet, de Therapeut. 1840, p. 29.—Thieruy ; in Gai. Med. de Paris, vol. ix. p. 537, 1841.— IIennemann, Ucber cine neue Reihe subcuta Operationen. Rostock und Schwerin, 1843. (r) Institutioncs Chirurglcse, vol. i. P- “**■ Schreoer, above cited. (d) Above cited, p. 323. (e) Recherches sur les Bourses muqueuses *0^- cutanees de la Plante du Pied, ct sur leur l’resse Medicate; vol. i p. 48. in mation ; in ft* ^ « -461 DROPSY OF THE JOINTS. fl recollect seeing a case of the elder Travers’s in St. Thomas’s Hospital, in which m suppuration of the mucous sac upon the knee-cap came on very rapidly, and extended fc around the front and sides of the joint. The patient suffered severe symptoms of con- ;titutional excitement, and I must confess I thought the suppuration was within the g. itself; he however thought otherwise, and directed the swelling to be freely opened; 4- a large quantity of pus escaped, and the symptoms of irritation soon subsided. Union A ! of the skin with the parts beneath did not, however, take place very quickly, and when all was quiet, the introduction of a probe, which ran along freely immediately beneath the skin, showed that Travers’s opinion was correct. She recovered perfectly, and with full use of the joint in a comparatively short time. Irritation of the inside of these dropsical sacs by poking with a probe, setons or injec- tions, are on no account to be resorted to, as the very probable consequence will be severe inflammation, terminating in gangrene of the sac and neighbouring parts, and high institutional disturbance. i Occasionally it happens after the mucous sac on the knee-cap has suppurated, and either burst or been opened, that it takes on a fistulous character, and two or three or no re little wounds ulcerate through the skin, which are very plaguing to the patient, indvery troublesome to heal. Under these circumstances it will be found very advan- ageous to stuff in a little red precipitate powder, and apply ointment of the same with a oandage, keeping the patient at rest at the same time.—J. F. S.] II.—OF DROPSY OF THE JOINTS. (Hydrops Articulorum, Hijdrathrosis, Lat.; Gelenkivassersucht, Germ. ; Hi/drarthrose, Fr.) 1875. Dropsy of a joint is a collection of serous fluid within the capsular J ligament, by which it is distended into a swelling, soft, bounded by the at- tachments of the ligament yielding to the pressure of the finger, but without ■retaining any impress, distinctly fluctuating, little or not at all painful, and '1 >P°n which the skin is unchanged. The swelling does not entirely cor- n -espond with the whole extent of the joint, but is greatest where the cap- Bular ligament is most yielding and little covered. Thus, for instance, a fi.welling at the wrist-joint is especially distinct on its fore and hind sur- i ace, but is scarcely perceptible on its sides ; at the ankle-joint it is most ■remarkable on the front 5 at the shoulder it confines itself to the front, k md projects most distinctly between the deltoid and great pectoral muscle. Im the knee-joint, where the disease most commonly occurs, the swelling k-appears in front and at the sides, when very large projects most on the in- 1 me, is divided into two parts by the knee-cap and tendon attached to it, |ond extends upwards beneath the muscles of the thigh. The knee-cap is t brust forward, is veiy movable, and after being pressed down, again rises vhen the pressure is removed. When the leg is bent, the swelling on the ■ • ides is larger and more tense; when the leg is extended, the fluctuation is more distinct. The movements of the limb are little interfered with in ; dropsy of the joint. 1876 The disease in general is slowly developed. Its causes may be -Mx ernal violence bruisings, sprains, catching cold, rheumatic or arth- | i;‘C at™’ cartilage-like bodies in the joint, and metastasis, whereby a | low inflammatory condition and disproportion between the secretion |i-ffa7orptlon of syn°™a is produced. The collected fluid does not iseU-?K common synovia, except that in long continuance of the ’1 ease it becomes more consistent, viscid, and of a tawny colour. Miifiekened1 iilcer^toil^'or^i of. j°'.nt are organically altered, swelled up, i irmed in fS “Actions of mucus, or pus, are I > Heated droosv of «,; ♦ ondition, which has been by some described as com- j} 11 » requires only particular attention, if the disease which hadDROPSY OF THE JOINTS; PROGNOSIS 462 produced it diminish, in which case, if the absorption of the collected fluid have tRn n Kmrn.m /in An on trwnlmnnt I «//r 91 2 nnrl nnwar/lc \ i* piUUlU/CU. It UUiUUloUj 111 W 11 iv^n taotj xx iiiv/ uuoui \/x uiv w»iv.v/vcu xxxxikx iia> taken place under the above-mentioned treatment, (par. 213 and onwards,) it ma require to be discharged, which I have several times done successfully at the kne*. joint. h [Brodie (a) observes :—“ Cases occasionally (but not often) occur, in which a joint , $j swollen from a preternatural quantity of fluid collected in its cavity without pain ( :i inflammation. This may be supposed to arise, either from a diminished action of tl c absorbents, or an increased action of the secreting vessels. The disease may he con i t pared to the dropsy of the peritonaum or pleura; or more properly, to the hydrocele)* and it has been not improperly designated by the terms Hydrartlirus and Hydro] > £ Articuli.” (p. 7.)] 1877. The prognosis in dropsy of a joint is usually not favourabh unless when it have arisen quickly, and have not been of long com tinuance, in which case its dispersion may be often easily effecteo> But if the disease have existed any length of time, and be very con siderable, and if the ligaments have thickened, the hope of a dispersio: is very slight, and puncturing the joint for the purpose of dischargim the collected fluid, is an operation which may lead to the most dangerou consequences. Dropsy of a joint is also easily liable to a relapse, am when long continued, can produce organic changes of the joint, which build up new structures. 1878. The treatment of incipient dropsy of a joint is the same as tha directed for inflammation of the synovial membrane. If the disease have existed some time, it must be the object to encourage the absorption o the collected fluid ; frequent rubbing, rubbing in volatile ointments mercurial ointment with camphor, repeated blisters frequently and a different parts applied, and long persisted in, fumigations, warm ant cold douche baths, wrapping up in oiled silk, the moxa, the actua cautery, electricity, and moderate compression. The internal treatmen must correspond to the cause of the disease. Gtimelle (b) has ieconi- mended large doses of tartarized antimonial wine as especially efficient 1879. If°the absorption of the collected fluid be not brought aboui by this' treatment, if, on the other hand, the quantity increase, so tha great pain and inability of using the limb be produced, or if there bt also a foreign body in the cavity of the joint, the collected fluid be so discharged as to prevent the entrance of the air. With this object the fluid is to be pressed against that part of the joint where the coverings are thinnest, on the knee for instance, on the inside. i the fingers of the one hand the skin is to be drawn aside, and a m trocar, a lancet, or a bistoury, thrust into the joint, without, wounding the joint surfaces. After the discharge of the fluid, and the removal of the canula, if the trocar be used, in doing which the "Oun is to be closed with the thumb of the right hand, and the coverings he j back with the fingers of the left, the skin which has been drawn aside is I allowed to return to its place, so that the parallelism between the ou er j and inner wound is got rid of, and the wound well closed with sticking I plaster. • h the I Opening the swelling with a lancet, or bistoury, is preferable to thiat wiUi^ trocar, if the fluid be very thick, or if there be any little bodies at the san I present in the joint, of which the removal is also requisite. , T c;r. - I I can hardly think the operation of puncturing a dropsical joint is, unde ^ jhe cumstances, justifiable, as the inflammatory symptoms which follow a wO n^ synovial membrane, even when healthy, are generally so great, and the eo q („) On the Diseases of Joints. (h) Gazette Medicate de Paris, vol. vm. p-AND TREATMENT. 463 j 0 serious, and sometimes fatal, that the patient’s life ought not to be endangered by uch treatment. And should this practice even succeed, it is only useful for a time, s the fluid will recollect. As to the use of injections, after emptying the joint of its ontents, as advised by Velpeau, and presently to be mentioned, I think it cannot be oo much deprecated, and I doubt whether any English Surgeon would risk his eputation, and the safety of his patient, by a practice which must be attended with lmost certain mischief.—J. F. S.] 1880. After the operation the patient must be kept quiet for ten or r welve days, and the part bathed with cold lead wash. If pain and nflammation arise, the rules recommended for wounds of joints must ie followed. If these symptoms do not occur, or when they have been iut aside, all those remedies must be employed, after the healing of the round, which are capable of restoring the due relations between the ecretion and absorption of the synovial fluid. 1881. The simple puncture of the dropsy of a joint rarely ever indeed r; mxluces a radical cure, as the fluid re-collects more or less quickly, and resides severe symptoms and suppurative inflammation may ensue. To effect a radical cure, Bonnet («) has employed successfully in ropsy of the knee-joint, injections of iodine; and the same has been ; Iso practised by Velpeau (b). After the leg has been stretched i ut, an assistant places his hand on one side of the joint, for the purpose of pressing the fluid towards the other, at which' the puncture l « to be made. The outer or inner side of the joint above the knee- ;! ap may be chosen. The skin is then to be raised in a fold, the base *f which is punctured with a trocar, which must be thrust in at least bree-quarters of an inch, and so deep as that its point shall touch the front irface of the thigh-bone. A viscid transparent fluid escapes through the canula, of which only from five to seven drams is to be drawn away, w is. about a similar quantity to the quantity of fluid presently to be ©ejected. The canula is always to be directed upwards, so that it remain 1 ill of fluid, and therefore in the injection the air is more certainly ex- cluded. Various solutions of iodine may be used as injections ; Bonnet, wowever, especially prefers a solution of half a dram of iodine and one dram w iodide of potash, in four drams of water (1). The quantity of fluid ■hjected must not exceed that drawn off, and therefore, in dropsy of ? ;'e *nee-joint, never more than from four to five drams of fluid should lb thrown in. After the injection has been made, and the canula WT Y Wltl.ldrawn> the puncture must be covered with sticking faster, the limb laid in a tray, and kept perfectly still. The con“ ijcrrquence of the injection is an acute inflammation, the running on of mch t° suppuration must be carefully prevented. In very great and nlul swellings of the joint, from the excessive collection of fluid, it ’ !L!.neCeSSary t0 discharge part of the fluid by puncture, so as to ®en the symptoms. lately! SinJ m'lStak° proportions given for this injection, which unfor- I Enl/h s^Z t e,,°TrtUn,, y10t Venf>ing’ U must be highly caustic, and such as - ght6!J F !.] ’1 h k’W0U d dal'C t0 throw lnt0 a j°int, though a French Surgeon 11 'droplsiT et8l™Abc KTtSi™"8 ^ ^aJ,adies. Cl>roniq„es do.. Articulation par des In- Ulleting6nc,alXThArj™^Articulations in ject.ons irritantes. Strasbourg 1842. f1e- 1842-Mart,N, (Th^Vr^ai'teLntd^ isg 0%*** MMica,e ^aris> vo1- *• P* 651-vii. p. 1 III.—OF LYMPH SWELLINGS. These have been considered in par. 15-18, par. 59-62. IV.—OF WATER IN THE HEAD, AND CLEFT SPINE. (Hydrocephalus, Lat.; Wasserkopf, Germ.; Hydrocepliale, FrJJydrorachitis, \ Spina bifida, Lat.; Riichgrathswassersucht oder Gespaltene Riickgriithe, Gera t Hydroracliis, Fr.) 1882. The term water in the head, or watery head, is usually apph q: to a collection of serous fluid beneath the coverings of the skull, betwe * the skull and the brain, or in the cavities of the brain itself. Accordi ft to these circumstance, it is distinguished into external watery head, (Hyd. \ cephalus externus,) internal watery head, (//. internus,) and dropsy> I the ventricles ( Hydrops ventriculorum cerebri.) 1883. In external watery head the fluid may be either in the cellu §j tissue beneath the skin, beneath the galea aponeurotica, or beneath t i; pericranium. In the first case, the swelling spreads more or less over t a whole head, often over the eyebrows, retains the impress of the fingerli and is specially characterized as oedema. In the second and third cas. > be the swelling more or less spread, yet it never reaches to the eyelids.) is incorrect to apply the term hydrocephalus to this disease. It requiii merely the ordinary treatment of oedema, the use of dispersive application in connexion with rubbing and moderate compression, and if these 1 insufficient, the discharge of the fluid by cutting into the swelling. Whether a partial collection of water under the galea aponeurotica actually exist,;! i which the swelling depending on it may be confused with other diseased conditions,.-la been already doubted. 1884. The collection of water within the cavity of the skull appea c alone to deserve the name hydrocephalus. The collection of wai r between the membranes of the brain and the skull, is most properly d| tinguished as hydrocephalus externus, and that in the ventricles of t «l brain as hydrocephalus internus, or hydrops ventriculorum. Both cc ditions may agree together in being congenital vices of formation, thece'* sequence of the staying of the foetus at an earlier stage of developmetj Hydrocephalus, however, is frequently first developed at a longer -j shorter period after birth, and mostly without any very decided cam 5 The watery head now to be considered may be distinguished as hydi cephalus chronicus, from hydrocephalus acutus, which quickly ensues,'* consequence of inflammation. The primary existence of external hydrocephalus is indeed denied by many, and il 1 asserted that the water only reaches the surface of the brain by a ‘earing o I cavities (a); it is, however, possible, that the water may be originally secreted as wen theouter is’ on the inner surface of the brain (6); for according to Magesd.es , observation, there is naturally a watery fluid between the arachnoid coat and the. larcoat of the spinal marrow, which communicates with the ventricles of the Ira an opening in the bottom of the fourth ventricle. The same applies to the fluidjiewe| an ODening in tne oouom oi uie auui tu vcmnuv.. a . pvtpn i the membrana arachnoidea and pi a matir upon the surface of the bran. hudwephalus is at all events a rare circumstance; it is not easily d.stingu.shab e fn •H hydrocephalus, and resembles it in its;symptoms, and the treatment it quires fa) Monro, Observations on tire Eye, the Ear, and the Praia, P <7>) Mfckkt. ; Handbuch der pathologisehen (r) Journal de 1 hysiot Anatomle.voU. P-263. 18-.>7,Jan. .38. logic, vol.465 WATER IN THE HEAD; CLEFT SPINE. 1885. In the congenital internal hydrocephalus, which is developed at * no very determinate period of pregnancy, as also in that occurring after- ,> wards, the walls of the brain are considerably distended by the collection of water in the ventricles, are thinned, and the convolutions unfolded ; the i partition of the ventricles (septum lucidum) is destroyed, and their internal < lining generally thickened ; yet, however, with this great thinning and as :it were membranous extension of the brain, its gray and medullary sub- ■s stances are still distinguishable. In proportion as the collection of water a becomes greater, the still yielding and not yet firmly connected skull-bones bispread out, and the head acquires an enormous size. It is uncommonly Abroad, especially in the region of the ossifying points, because the bones, icspecially those on the sides, are thrust asunder by the water. The face has •no longer an oval, but a triangular form, the forehead projects considerably iiwer the orbits, and there is a remarkable disproportion between the size of 0 ibe face and skull. The skull-bones form slowly, and are connected only Itny a number of intermediate bones. The membranes enclosing the water Niure not unfrequently torn during labour, the water discharged, and the Coverings of the destroyed brain, for the most part, fall together. h 1886. If in great distension of the skull some parts be more yieldin0- o.than others, or the water sink from the fourth ventricle, between tire ow mater and tunica arachnoidea, into the canal of the spine, by which fcthe cartilaginous plates forming, previous to its perfect ossification, jilthe hind portions of the vertebra; are outspread, there are produced : elastic fluctuating swellings covered with a thin, sometimes transparent, ' S \ V£7°US size’ and forming the disease called Cleft Spine (Spina pnjida.) ihese may be diminished by compression, upon which ensue |,-oma, convulsions, palsy, and the like, Several such swellings may Jccur at the same time, so that the fluid may be driven from one to is mother. Their base is sometimes broad, sometimes has a neck, and examination with the finger the edge of the opening in the bone, E flU1? efaped’ is feIt distinctly, its shape round and regular , ,iii U I’ ailr.C oblone 011 the spinal column, where it is formed by ! nvZ!™ of spinous processes. These swellings may be seated at ! specially °tl c S tUl Where, the bones are seParated by the sutures, 1 ojw, y the. forehead, on the sides, and on the back of the head ; i Pine mfiSeVe TS- t(?gether- These swellings are noticed in the I eck’ v1 COmm,°n f 111 the lumbar region, more rarely in the back and • V ery rarely do several exist at the same time in the spine. If atiry W ™TXr ,anJ1C0:e.xist(:Ilce be assumed between internal hydrocephalus K Jnfirmed on numerous grounds ^^annot^h^^15’ bj^d.a’) which opinion is 10 Section of waterinth!^ k ’ , ho,wever’ be denied that a primary f ater in the head AlthoufTthTK.1 2°pinS the. sPmal marrow, may exist without oh rer, probable that it th , 1 the water be not always the same, it is, how- I V«r. 1884.) Gai l noticed™-!1101117 00 ,ect? between the vascular and arachnoid coats. I f the second third aml Wh , TP 6 111 a chlld eighteen days old with a cleft i> >e arachnoid coat dnml - f n th ,lu,m^ar vertebra, and a collection of water within | ft, I I! LugoHo Un‘versaU di Medlcin». vol.xv. ]8,’0. » • VOL. II. ‘ ^ ® Crov. Med. and Surg, Journ., vol. vii. 1844. 2 ii466 WATER IN THE HEAD, AND ranee was a tumour of the size of a large orange, membranous, but having in its cent ,. j a small portion of thin bone. This membrane arose from a projecting portion of hoc ' 1 almost circular, whose diameter was three inches and a half, and contained about hal S a pound of serum; when this was suppurated, it appeared as if there was a she ,vi of bone below, which was not complete, as the fluid run from this cell into the eavi ■■■» of the skull. The roof the orbit was nearly convex. On puncturing the right side \\d the anterior fontanelle, about five pints of serum were drawn off. The body was of J rickety appearance and much emaciated, and there was a spina bifida of the si 1 of a hen’s egg in the lumbar region. The child had possessed all its faculties uni a day or two previous to its death, but generally lay on a sofa with its head raised. Unij j five 'mouths of age the head had been normal, but then increased.” (p. 564.)] 1887. The mischiefs produced by hydrocephalus and spina bifida \ -j the functions of the brain and spinal marrow, are not always the .same 4 Most commonly children born with water in the head die soon after bird J either in consequence of the disease itself, or the damage which the hea f suffers during delivery ; in rare cases, however, they reach a more or le, ^ advanced age, and the head acquire an enormous size. Not withstands : the diminished size of the brain, its functions are not always propoi j tionally lost. Although the functions of the intestinal canal be in genert;j natural, the nourishment of the body otherwise is affected, so that ! is extremely thin and backward in its development. In those cast- > in which hydrocephalus is accompanied with watery bags, the above c mentioned mischiefs are usually slighter, and scarcely observable. 11 spina bifida, indeed, the condition of the spinal marrow is, for the mos| part, altered ; it is thinner, is dissolved into a watery substance, studde i with watery bladders, and at the seat of the cleft entirely deficient; : is, however, rarely altered further than at the seat of the cleft, and nc i always in the same degree. Symptoms of hydrocephalus usually accom I pany spina bifida, great wasting, weakness of the lower limbs, involuntarjl discharge of the urine and stools, spasms, convulsions, and so on. _ Thlj larger the swelling, and the nearer it is to the head, the more violenl generally are the symptoms. Mostly children so affected die soon; they I however, in rare cases, live a shorter or longer time. With hydrocephalu I and with spina bifida other misformations are frequently connected.Jo 9 instance, hare lip, cleft palate, club foot, and the like, whence it deci Jl follows that they must be considered as the consequence of an arrest**! development (a). Fisher’s (6) observations on tlie origin of spina bifida are very interesting, in two cases a union of two or more sacral ganglions, the passage of their rcspe&wm nerves through the sheath in one bundle, and the union of the end of the spina wu 1 with the walls of the sac. I have fully verified this statement, in a case in whicn ^ followed some time after puncture. Fisher hereon founded the following opinio • 1 first, that the union of the sacral ganglions depended on primary irregularity, < which arose the anomalous division of the corresponding nerves between the and the spinal marrow ; second, the growing together of the spinal mar™. . b , the sheath prevented the ascent of the marrow in its natural position, and to it » ascribed the irregular way in which the nerves are inserted into the spinal m ^ , third, the union of the ganglions may, in a degree, be ascribed to the dc''el0J>"’ , fonn process, by which the neighbouring ganglions, in many cases, themselves ot nan o unite with each other; and the general existence of this deformity at the m ' ^ the spinal column depends on the relative position of the sacral ganglions I in the sacral canal, whilst those of the other spinal nerves arc m the intervert • ^ b ( fourth, the incomplete form of the hinder wall of the vertebral column l (n) Murray, J. A., Progres. do Spina, bifidm congcnitis circa thoraccm ct abdomen. Eri cx_ mala osaium conformal,one Initio. Cooling., 1810. ^ ^ ^ phi, h. < Meckel, above cited.—Fi.eisOhmann, De vitiis Journal of Science, vol. x. p- 3 b, P- -467 CLEFT SPINE; TREATMENT. ascribed to the influence of the irregular development of the corresponding parts r of the nervous system, than to a peculiar tardiness in the process of ossification. [Hewett (a) observes, in regard to spina bifida:—“ The connexion which generally & exists between the chord or the nerves and the walls of the sac, is a point of the utmost si: importance. Some cases are related by various authors, in which neither the chord nor r$t the nerves had any connexion with the sac; these parts followed their usual course down ijj the spinal canal; but in by far the greater number of cases that have been placed upon ; -ecord, the nerves presented some kind of connexion with the sac. Of twenty prepara- 1* tions of spina bifida, occupying the lumbo-sacral region, which I have examined in 3> various collections, I have found but one in which the nerves were not connected with • he sac.” (p. 461.)] 1888. As to the treatment of these two complaints, it has been advised \i- 0 employ mercury internally and externally, repeated purgations, long- ■fcontinued blisters, issues, setons, and a due pressure of the whole skull vith bandages or sticking plaster (b). The unsuccessful result, after rn 1 rawing off the water by puncture, or after spontaneous bursting, had ru liscouraged this practice till more recent observations had shown, that joy small stabs with a needle or a fine trocar, the fluid might be repeatedly A imptied. In a few cases only, however, was a cure thereby produced, i s with the often repeated puncture and simultaneous use of moderate mressure, at last fatal inflammation ensued. Besides, in the critical ex- tj, mination of these cases, it is proper to bear in mind that the operation , i 5 only performed when the distension of the skull is very considerable ?An earlier employment of the puncture, by which the fluid can be radnally emptied, and the head at the same time properly compressed a nth a bandage, may perhaps allow the hope of a favourable result • p ut especially when the water in the head has not been congenital (1)’ if he place for the puncture may be chosen at any part between the sepa- 1 ated bones where there is no sinus. Asteey Cooper has recommended l Pa^ative treatment, which has had good results, by means of a bandage 1 'hlch completely keeps back the swelling in spina'bifida, and which must : e continued for some time (2). - h[ich th?nnJptMc S C<fE™ .0) to*8 7el7 carefully analyzed and compared the cases in k M?! P °f PU Y'.'lng the brain for chro,lic hydrocephalus has been practised ; mi011 ‘he subject is entitled to serious attention. He says .--“ From p}“?foC tbf 1 C0nrude that lnf,ammatotT irritation of the brain and its membranes t stem t Peratl°n m s°me instances; that the state of these parts and of the rendition fn tvte °ocurre“ce ; and that the encephalic structures are in a very different * infl' “ thlS dl.sease’ both mechanically and vitally, but especially as to proneness ■ ^^iSly'il556^^treVtme^Sas tLnso^ HSR? riod \vT ° bIa'n muSt be Penetl-ated to reach it at an early than ^t a later 0<i- vv hen punctures are resnrtprl tr, * . . A . a tatei riod wifpT t ^ uc peueiraieu to reacli it at an early than at a liter Wen relaxed • fo^we^ho^M^mf^H t0 medical treatment must not be abandoned, or < U as topromotZwt on^and -t0 T6”0™ tbe to effusion as . ; althy per for man e c oft he" ee re h vl'l f a,?ertain of pressure is requisite to the lid over the whl ! , • cereb,al factions, strips of plaster should be applied around An. nSlve H,:, t. P’ ln °.rder t0 prevent the coll:'Pse consequent upon the ojera- H °ne time; that gentlerreSure^houbl T t0 *1 frequen|’ Vor nmch fluid withdrawn n 6 Pressure should be made around the cranium during the dis- with Remarks; in 3/,i S.Gazette, vol. xxxiv. 1811. r.A j ti Bun r, ™C'v°t xxxiv. 1841. is 'ehanicaf^.?'1)”*^’ °n the effect of tafc and cure insert.?" °f thc lu'ml “ a preven- cure ,n certain cases of Hydrocephalus ; in his Select Dissertations, p. 380. London, 1822. ’ in London Med. Repository, vol. xx. p. 314. 1823. (c) Dictionary of Practical Medicine, -Art., Chronic dropsy m the Head, vol. i. Lond., 1844. 8vo. 2 ii 2468 WATER IN THE HEAD; CLEFT SPINE—TREATMENT. charge ; that the discharge ought to he stopped, and the puncture accurately closed, as to prevent the entrance of air, as soon as the pulse begins to sink ; and that resto tives should he exhibited in order to prevent convulsions or other nervous symptoi The operation seems to he best performed by a small trocar or grooved needle, but it difficult to withdraw any fluid with the latter, as the surrounding pressure fills up i croove The application of a cupping glass may, however, produce a discharge, pointed thin trocar, with a two-edged lancet-shaped extremity, not a thick tnangu instrument, is preferable upon the whole.” (p. 083.) (2) This is not quite correct. Abernethy first suggested the trial of slight pr sure on the swelling of spina bifida, even from the first, so as to excite absorpt'ty and to prevent the distension of the unsupported dura mater. He also first puncturer case of this sort, which was hopeless, and repeated it every fourth day for six wee during which time the wounds healed regularly, and the child s health remained und turbed. But at last the plaster slipped off, the wound ulcerated, suppuration ensu> and the child died. Astley Cooper first practised pressure, and afterwards puncti with a fine needle and pressure. In two of his cases the patients were alive and healtl the one twenty-eight and the other twenty-nine years after this treatment. Hewett lays down two good general rules in regard to puncturing spina bifii according to Astley Cooper’s method. “ First. The tumour ought never to be pm tured along the mesial line, especially in the sacral region; for it is generally at ti Dart that the cord and its nerves are connected with the sac. The puncture is to made at one side of the sac, and at its lowest part, so as to diminish the risk of woundi. anv of the nervous branches. Second. The instrument ought to be a grooved neet or a small trocar ; for if a lancet be used, there wiU be great risk of wounding soi- important part contained in the cavity of the tumour.” (p. 463.) Compare, on the Surgical treatment of Hydrocephalus and Spina bifida— Abernethy, John, An Account of Spina bifida; with remarks on a method of trer ment. London, 1810. Cooper, Astley ; in Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. ii. p. 324. 1813. Earle Henry, Case of Hernia of the Dura Mater connected with Hydrocephal internus;' in Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. vii. p. 427. 1816. Sherwood, H., in Medical Repository of New York, vol. i. p. 1. 1812. Otto; in his Seltenen Beobachtungen. Breslau, pt. i. p. 66. 1816. Hayes, Pliny; in New England Journal, vol. i. p. 237. Newendorff, De Spina; bifida; Curatione radical!. Lips., 1S20. Trompei, B., above cited. Freckleton, in Edinburgh Med. and Surg. Journal, vol. xvn. p. 240. 18-1 Lizars, in same, p. 243. Vacca Berlinghieri, above quoted, p. 251. Probart, F. L.; in Lancet, vol. xi. P-800. . of fluid drawn at any one time was twenty ounces and a-lialf, the grea : operationstn the same child five, at intervals of from two to six weeks. Ihelarge. “to known cases of puncture, a, one which he himself treated, and has determined the applicability oftlns . 1889 The nearly always unfavourable result of repeated Pu”ft“r“. ^ ha. recently led to various modes of treatmentvnth to effect, by the removal of the sac, at the same time, . ^ opentag excommunication with the spinal canal, ns DoBOt.no <», vignot (c) Bevnaud (rf), have shown, with s"c'^“ (a) Ueber die Punktion des chronischen in- (b, Jonrn. de :I. • „ Wasserkopfes; in Rust’s Magazin, vol. , A.; in New York Medical and Phvsical Journal, 1828.—Marsdkn; in Lancet, 1830-31, vol. i. p. 648. X,gV G^tte Medicate de Paris, vol. U. P-« p. TOO. 1841. (d) Ibid., p. 573.SEROUS AND PURULENT COLLECTIONS IN THE CHEST. 469 According to Dubourg, the tip of the swelling is to be taken hold of, j raised a little up, and a part of its base cut through with a straight knife, |p in such way as to form two flaps, which are brought down upon the spinal column, and without at first cutting into a middle string, which is gene- i rally felt, and is formed by the sheath of the spinal marrow. Immediately 1 after the rest of the base is cut off, and now but little skin remains. The at pressure of an assistant’s finger should prevent the escape of the fluid and a-the entrance of the air. The edges of the wound are then to be united i with two, three, or four hare-lip pins and the twisted suture. This ope- i: ration is required when the swelling and the opening are of small size 4 and the child’s health otherwise good. STavignot seizes the swelling at its base with an instrument similar to i pair of forceps, before which he cuts off the projecting mass, and then unites the edges of the wound as in the former mode. Beynard surrounds the base of the tumour with a spring, into which i ligature is introduced, and ties it up. The tightening of the ligature is f§' padually increased till the inner walls of the sac, brought into close con- F act, unite, after which it is cut off and the remaining suppurating part Ej Bought together with sticking plaster. If the tied swelling be very \ ense, a portion of fluid may be allowed to escape by puncture. 1890. Of these several modes of treatment that of Beynard seems pre- >1 erable, as by it the too quick emptying of the fluid, and entrance of the :»• iir are prevented, the union of the applied surfaces more certainly effected, il .nd the cutting off performed when union is produced. Dubourg’s me- lt 'hod is, in reference to these points, to be considered the most severe and ?< langerous. ■ C V—OF THE COLLECTION OF SEROUS AND PURULENT FLUIDS IN THE CAVITIES OF THE CHEST, r ®RANDES) De Thoracis Paracentesi. Gdtting., 1791. F Gomprecht, Depulmonum abscessu aperiendo. Getting., 1796. •* Andouakd, De l’Empyeme. Paris, 1808. ■ WMem°iresur les Epanchemens dans la Poitrine et l’Ope'ration de l’Em- > >eme; in Clinique Chirurgicale, vol. iii. p. 237. r IiHt%i^Hmp01442Ur lGS ^ r°Peration de fKmpyeme ; in Mem. de Chirurg. I Andrew, Contributions to Morbid Anatomy, No. IV. Empyema and Kfa nmato-thorax; in Edinb. Med. and Surg. Journ. vol. xvii. p. 322 1891 |SdSM'SS»rej»i’EmPyi”e P1“"ae "»»*> ®n Memorial ties Hopi- I Moan, B, Beitriige zu dner kiinftigen Monogiyphie Jes Empyems. Kiteingin, 1S39. I« edillot, De 1 Operation de l’Empyeme. These soutenue, &c. Paris, 1841. £ Be^bac^tungemDanziSg,*Il843?'^Un^ auf medic5nisch ™d operativem Wege 1 £"*Tond^'Large \^ema;in Cyclopedia of Practical Medicine, vol. ii. { Jr8_9i' If in U;6 cavity of the chest ^rous fluid {hydrops pectoris, hydro- I^Cl hirt a?e n(ro7yT“? C?le?’ 7mPtoms of compression of the lungs I f extravns'iti P uce<1’ Slmilar to those already mentioned when treating H colIcctil)l‘ "f *n ‘he cavity of the chest 1 1892. if the collection be only in one cavity of the chest, the patient canSEROUS AND PURULENT COLLECTIONS IN 470 only lie on the diseased side, and the breathing is exceedingly difficult: ; he lie on the sound side; if the collection be on both sides he can onl i lie on his back with the upper part of the body raised. The ailing sic a is more distended, the ribs separated from each other, and their mov< a ments prevented. In consequence of the compression of the lung, an § the immobility of the chest on one side, the healthy half of the che i t must move more actively. Although the intercostal muscles and tl. * external muscles of the breast be not inflamed, yet an oedematous swellin r occurs at certain spots, at least these muscles feel thicker. This swellin - ^ often spreads itself further over the diseased side of the body. If thei > ' be much fluid collected, pulsation is communicated to it from the hear 4 so that it can be perceived to a great extent, though often very slightly £ and sometimes not at all. The heart itself may, by the pressure of tb o fluid, be thrust to the other side, and even upwards. The diaphragm may also in like manner be driven downwards, often to such extent that swelling is observed below the short ribs and in the upper region of th'i belly; the patient has therefore specially in the sitting posture, a sensa tion of weight and pressure on the diaphragm. A fluctuation in th chest is often observed, on examining the body, either with the ear alon or with the stethoscope, and especially absence of the respiratory nuirmui on that part, except at the root of the lung. A bleating noise, age phony, is observed when the collection is not very great, but it is lost whe that side of the chest is distended by the collection. It is most distinct a the lower end of the blade-bone opposite the nipple. On percussion th s chest does not yield the usual hollow, but a dull sound. The symptom of hectic fever, dry or moist cough, small pulse, puffiness of the coun tenance, oedematous swelling of the upper limbs, and the like, in a great o less degree, accompany these symptoms. measuring (mensuration) an unyielding baud is to be applied in an exactly hon J il direction from the spinous processes of the vertebra: to the middle of the breast < In zontal direction from the spinous processes u ..... ........... j_ bone upon the sound and on the diseased side. Piorry (a) has proposed to perfect thi I horizontal measure with a vertical one, for which purpose, whilst the patient sits o stands, the one end of a band is to be placed on the top of the collar-bone, near tb | shoulder, and the other on the last sternal rib near its tip. _ .. ■" B Tarral has proposed feeling the fluctuation. The patient must lie on the disease* side, one finger is then to be strongly pressed into the intercostal space, whilst aiiothe. I finger gives a short blow on the corresponding interspace, and at such distance that tw■ direction towards the impressing finger shall be as much as possible perpeudieular. ^ If the flat of the hand be laid upon the walls of the chest, a vibratory motion is e on speaking, which, according to Raynaud, will not be perceived if there be etnis I The mobility of the healthy, and the immobility of the diseased side in breathing, 1 also be observed by the feel. _ , , Percussion affords us the most certain sign of effusion into the cavity of the cn ^ I and discovers to us most of the changes in reference to its origin and course, its alte I tions and diminution. If effusion do not fill the cavity of the chest, it changes its p I according to the varying position of the patient, and, in consequence of its grav*t.V| __ I to the most depending part of the chest. In the sitting posture it occupies the spat*- ■ between the hind part of the diaphragm, the spine, and the ribs. As this space is narrow, a small quantity of the fluid can afford a dull sound to a pretty large exten • ^ ' the part corresponding to the surface of the fluid a clear pulmonary sound is observ • ^ ^ the patient lie on his back, percussion gives a clear sound in frout, but a dud 0 ; hind, and this also happens if the patient lie on his belly, or upon one or ot“^\ , the sound is always dull at that part to which the fluid sinks. If the whole 1 filled with fluid, it cannot alter its situation, and the dull sound is observe^ £ part. In circumscribed effusion also, where bounded by adhesions, the u j remains at the one spot, whatever posture the patient may assume. If the soun ^ tb£ j duller or more sonorous where previously it was not so, it may be presuu (a) Traite du Diagnostic, &c., vol. i. p.570. Paris, 183).471 THE CHEST; PERCUSSION, AUSCULTATION. jfa 3uid has increased or diminished. If percussion at one spot constantly give sonorous I ;ouud, around which, according to the different posture of the patient, a sonorous and lull sound can be produced, it may be concluded that there is an adhesion of the lung i lt this Spot. Percussion is able to decide with accuracy the pressure which the sur- winding parts suffer by the fluid. Sometimes, after the fluid has diminished, a dull ■ ;0und is'observed opposite the lower part of the cavity of the chest, which depends on the false membrane that has formed there, or has been separated from the parts bove. It is not ever easy to distinguish between an effusion into the pleura, from one s. uto the pericardium. An effusion into the pleura cannot extend towards the front of u. he heart without arising behind nearly to the spine of the blade-bone; if, therefore, if! here be dull sound in the region of the heart without a rising of the fluid up to the $ ,oiut stated, it must be concluded that there is effusion into the pericardium. Auscultation affords different results according to the variety of the circumstances. ir n slight effusion the respiratory murmur may be distinguished, but it is weaker, and s eems at a distance from the walls of the chest; if the effusion increase, the respiratory Hi aurrnur ceases completely. In collections of fluid at the depending part of the chest, t there the upper part is free, the respiratory murmur may be felt below, and is per- il, eived above. If the patient’s position be so altered that the lower becomes the upper Bjtart, the respiratory murmur is heard on the former, where it was not heard, and it is Xu o longer perceived where it previously had been. This stethoscopic sign is of jpihe greatest importance. Laennec considers segophony as the pathognomic sign of ii leuritic effusion ; but this sign is of no actual value, and by segophony alone the ope- ;> ation of paracentesis must not be decided. If segophony point this out, it can only be s (,'howu at one part of the chest in a certain extent, and in a sharp change in the patient’s i ; oice; in other respects it consists in a strong resonance of the voice, which is trem- u ling and broken, but is not so distinctly transmitted to the ear as pectoriloquy. iEgo- Ythony, like the respiratory murmur, ceases in great collection, and in changes of its seat, riAccording to the different posture which the patient may be placed in. The height of effusion bounds the space above where it can be heard, above which the voice has tijs natural sound. This line of demarcation determines the addition to, and diminu- , i on of, the effusion. Coughing presents an analogous change in the voice : sometimes ariie voice is perceived at a distance with a peculiar change, to which has been given the j ame vox senilis, (e'gophonie a distance) ; but this sound may exist without effusion, it ®jin therefore afford only a conjecture. ; 1893. Notwithstanding all these aids which can be brought to the close r etermination of the state of the cavity of the chest, it is not ever easy to distinguish pleuritic effusion with certainty. Inspection and mensuration i ave no actual value. In healthy persons, the one side of the chest, imperially the right, is frequently more strongly developed than the other, ysvery circumstance by which the activity of the lung is restricted, favours i i ie diminution of the size of the chest ; the other cavity of the chest, in sproportion as the lung becomes more active than the other, acquires greater size. According to Stokes’s observation, the increase of the * liest on the left side, as a sign of empyema, is of more value ; upon the ght side it is only of consequence when it exceeds half an inch. In per respects, the quantity of effusion cannot be determined by inspection : !fd mensuration, as with a trifling distension of the ribs there may be '^nsiderable thrusting back of the diaphragm and mediastinum. ‘The '’f-riiDle dashing of the fluid, when the patient is held and shaken by the d boulders, is only perceptible when the cavity of the chest at the same time Ipntams air; it therefore often affords no sign except being very distress- B'g to, t*.ie P.atient, and the audible dashing must be distinguished from that Ijisembling it, which can be produced by fluid in the stomach. I have, in •j-ie instance, fully distinguished the two kinds of dashing from each other. || e setlslble fluctuation is, according to Tarrall, perceptible only in a ; "al1 'lumber of cases, in very thin persons, and if the pleura be distended if a ar^e quantity of fluid. The immobility of the chest may depend on I j ny ot ier circumstances. The vibratory movement does not, accordingSEROUS AND PURULENT COLLECTIONS IN 472 to Raynaud, always exist, and all the diseases which prevent the entrant ; of the air into the lungs do not admit its occurrence. Percussion ai i auscultation usually give the most decided signs, though even they in mar instances are uncertain. Thus a duller sound is observed in pneumonia n but it does not arise in this case so suddenly, or, so to speak, at once, asi: , effusion; on the contrary, it is gradually developed; at first weak an J scarcely perceptible, it gradually becomes stronger in proportion as tl inflammation more and more prevents the entrance of the air into the lun; ' but in the highest degree of hepatization of the lung, the dull sound is S distinct and complete as in effusion. The dull sound is generally circun.; ■: scribed, rarely corresponding to the whole extent of the lung, as on tl . u contrary it is not seldom that effusion occupies the whole of one cavity i; i the chest. In effusion the dull sound suddenly ceases above the levi v: of the effusion, and gives place to a hollow sound : this is not the case i > pneumonia, some cases of pneumonia lobularis perhaps excepted. Hepqfl tization alone produces so dull a sound as can be mistaken for extrcm hi: sation ; but about a hepatized part of the lung there are always others ol which are inflamed in a lesser degree, and which form a gradual transitio n from the diseased to the sound part. Percussion, therefore, carefully usee ;» may give a dull sound, which gradually diminishes till that spot whicjM corresponds to the healthy part of the lung be reached, where it is entireMcl lost. A further distinction between extravasation and pneumonia is, tha : in the former the seat of the dull sound varies according to the differen j posture of the patient, whilst in pneumonia it remains the same in ever position. In extravasation the dull sound always first begins at the mos' i depending part of the chest, whilst in pneumonia it is often first perceivei jj at the upper part, as it often is situated at a higher part. Hirtz (a), presuming that the physical phenomena vary according to the relation o ■! the lungs to the outpoured fluid, determines these relations upon three conditions; fast' . when the effusion is small, some ounces up to a pound ; second, if it be moderately great. g from one to three pounds ; and third, when it is considerable, three pounds and upward? If the effusion be moderate, it varies, according as it is recent or of some time standing u In the former case the effusion spreads around the lung, which, as it were, is bathec | in fluid; the pulmonary and costal pleura are separated from each other by a layer o M fluid, the thickness of which is everywhere nearly alike. In from ten to fourteen days the fluid, however, sinks down, and thrusts the lung upwards, if it be not hepatized oi adherent. A recent outpouring may be distinguished by the following signs:—breath-® ing, voice, cough short, broken, faint bleating, and a dull sound to a great extent; in 'f considerable effusion, the latter, but never the former symptom is observed. When > the outpouring has existed for some time, the dull sound is perceived only to a trifling height, as the fluid sinks down ; on the contrary, tegophony is deficient at the lower part, as for its production not merely is the fluid necessary, but that also a portion of the lungs should be surrounded by it. Above the collection a clearer sound is heard, and the respiratory murmur on auscultation. We are, therefore, led to suppose that the fluid has been absorbed, whereas, however, it has only changed its place, and sunk to the bot- tom. It may, therefore, be concluded, if with diminution of the dull sound, and a return of the respiratory murmur at the upper part of the lung, segophony be wanting at the lower part, that the fluid has changed its place, and has not diminished. The phenomenon of the descent of the dull percussion-sounds, without diminution of the fluid, . depends often less on the removal, than especially on the diminution of the size of the ^ lung, in consequence of the pressure upon it (b). («) Archives generates de Med., vol. i. 1837. (6) I.aennec, Traite de l’Auscultation mediate et des Mnladies des Poumons et de Camr, vol. i. p. 72, vol. ii. p. 230. Paris, 1826. Second Edition. —Piorry, Traite do Diagnostic et. de Semciologie, 3 vols. Paris, 1837. 8vo.—Stokes, Will., M.D., A Treatise on the Diagnosis and Treatment of the 8vo.— Schuh, Ueber den Einfluss dor Percussion nn<^ Diseases of the Chest. Dublin. 1837. Auscultation auf Chirurg. Praxis; in Jahrhiichern, vol. xxxvi. p 372.—von Rotteci ’ Ueber einige llmstkrankheiten, mit l»sonderer Kiicksicht auf ihre Diagnose aus physikalisen Zeichen. Freiburg, lSjy.THE CHEST; OPENING OF CHEST CAVITY. 473 1894. The collection of these fluids may arise in various ways ; by an g tbseess in the lung opening' into the chest, in consequence of an inflamma- 5 ion of the lung and pleura, after penetrating- wounds, extensive fracture ? )f the ribs, and the like, from a perverse secretion, from an insidious a nflainination of the pleura from organic disease of the lungs, as well also ili rom the slow occurrence of hydrothorax. * Abscesses on the exterior of the chest between the pectoral muscles and the pleura ,<j a rely penetrate the cavity of the chest, because the pleura in general becomes much hi lickened. ■ [Sometimes the empyematous matter is discharged either by bursting into the lung Tt self, or through the walls of the chest. Under these circumstances, the effusion is ircumscribed by adhesions, forming a distinct abscess, and separate from the general m avity of the pleura. According to Laennec, the matter of empyema is discharged more requently by bursting into the bronchi than by ulceration through the walls of the best. Townsend (a), however, thinks that their frequency is nearly equal. Some- id mes the abscess bursts both outwardly and inwardly, and thus a fistulous passage is il. inned for the escape of the pus. Instances of this kind are mentioned by Le Dran (b) ’ ad by Andral (c).J 1895. When from these collections in the cavities of the chest, the func- ions of the lungs and heart are destroyed to such extent as to endanger <i ife, when the accumulation cannot be got rid of either by the powers of y ature, or by suitable internal treatment, opening the cavity of the chest •' Paracentesis thoracis, Operatio empyematis) is required. This opera- 16 ion can, however, only have a favourable result when the purulent or v ,-atery accumulation is unaccompanied witli other incurable disease of " he chest, or with symptoms of general dropsy and the patient have not een already greatly enfeebled by long continuance of the disease, or by olliquative symptoms, and is not very much advanced in age. The accumulation of pus in consequence of external injuries is the most I 0Peful for a favourable result to the operation, which, however, must r> lways be considered a very serious one as regards the consequences that 0 lay arise from it; although, on the other hand, it must be remembered « iat the efficiency of the operation is considerably undervalued on account f its too late and rare performance. In the above-mentioned cases it is y ie only means of preserving life. 1 Opinions vary as to the period at which accumulations after inflammation take place ! ;„r£7Ule8 °o the chest’ as some are in favour of the early performance of the opera- Sk0“ks’ Baennec, Gendrin, and others); it can, however, only be msiaereu permissible under the above-mentioned conditions. (Krause.') it has hpen ' mentloned (par. 495) that and under what conditions, opening the cavity of the B 1 ls accessary in extravasation of blood and collection of air. ^ u 1896. Opening the cavity of the chest is performed either by a cut or >■ > a puncture with the trocar. Opening the chest has been practised from the earliest times in very different wavs • % thr°£gh the ribs (Hipocrates, Pare, Severinus,) or througl the | dilL0n nffEEN’r!{OGER,of l arma’ Hurdiann, van der Wvl, and others); second I >jna A the s°0 Par,s> “• Wlth the actual cautery (Euniphon of Cnidos, Paul of <1 enife”through the sVoZhrrIUvA™N’ and others,) /3. with caustic, and thrusting l by puncture with E Sp , ENIN’ luYSCH’ Bromfield, von Winter, and others) ; f making a cut through the skin and laying bare the fxivrL, )o^Bov :i1'NOI;N’ .?e™-’ and °thcrs’) or with the trocar, ■Rime, Beltostf\ or wdth and„others;) wlth blunt instruments, as a sound (Dionis! pe skin, by thrust’inir V (Hreck) ; 5. without previously cutting through y ting in a knife, (Ruazes, Diemerbroeck, Purmann,) or the trocar I 6) Nation, de Chlrurgie, vol.^V^T ^ ^ , s ■ vui. p. -oj. (e) Clinique Medicate, vol. ii. p. dSP.474 OPENING THE CHEST WITH A CUT. (n) Laennlc, above cited, vol. ii. p. 0'.9. (Drouin, Nuck, Palfyn, IIeister, Sharp, Leblanc, Rullier, Charles ]fi Laennec, Wattmann, Schuh, Krause, and others); s. by dividing the skin and must by layers with a funnel-shaped cut and the division of the pleura to a great ext t (especially Benjamin Bell, Laruey, Zang, Kern, and others.) 1897. Opening the chest with a cut is performed in the following w; The patient should be laid near the edge of the bed, bending over towa: >! the sound side, and his arm brought forwards, so that the light may 1 upon the part for operation. A cut of a full inch is to be made throu : the skin, in the middle between the breast-bone and the spine, on l j right side between the fifth and sixth or sixth and seventh ribs, reckoni .i* from above, but never lower, as otherwise the diaphragm may be eas. 9 wounded ; upon the left side, between the fifth and sixth, to the seventh a ; eighth ribs. The muscles are then divided cautiously down to thepleufM by repeated cuts lengthways, and properly away from the lower edge 1 the upper rib, without completely exposing the upper edge of the low rib, so that the cut is conical, and exposes about an inch of the pleut I If the finger be then introduced into the bottom of the wound, when t h patient holds his breath or inclines a little to the diseased side, and distir i fluctuation be felt, the pleura may be carefully penetrated with the bistoui <$ and the opening enlarged with the button-ended bistoury. If no fluctu 1 tion be perceptible, the pleura, which is frequently thickened, must divided by cutting cautiously. For the discharge of the fluid the patie: | must be inclined towards the diseased side. Deep inspiration, coughin j; and the use of pumps or injections, to assist the discharge, are dangeroi •< The place for opening the chest, when there is no protrusion of the pleura and act. if mulation beneath the external coverings, (locus necessitatis,) has been very various * recommended. Many (Sabatier, Pelletan, Boyer, and others) advise it on the h r side between the third and fourth rib, counting from below, and on the right bet we .1 the fourth and fifth ribs. Others (Chopart, Desault) on the left side, between t second and third, and on the right, between the third and fourth nils. According ' Bell the lowest and most fitting place for the puncture is the interspace between L sixth’and seventh rib, reckoning from above. According to Begin, the cut should .« made at the junction of the two front with the hinder third of the space between t 1 breast-bone and the spinous processes. Cruvelhier holds that the fluid should not ( 1 any account be completely emptied, and therefore the opening may be made where y< a PllH in a very fat person the ribs cannot be counted, the place for the cut may be deta i mined at from four to five fingers’ breadth above the last false rib. Opening the cue ,v.,rt nt n little distance from the spine is objectionable; Decays UUiUi uivu w** . ' , . * , * j" days after, and the opening in the pleura made as will permit (2). Laknneo. abovo cited.,PUNCTURING THE CHEST WITH THE TROCAR. 475 I CarTwric.ht (a) proposes, in order to prevent the admission of air in opening the ca- tj itv of the chest, to introduce a double'thread, shaped like the Greek fl after having 1* aile a small cut, and to apply sticking plaster over it. I f (1) I cannot think the recommendation here given of thrusting a bistoury into a pre- I a,R1([ abscess of the lung, admissible under any circumstances. I have great doubt i hether fluctuation could be certainly ascertained, and even if it were, I do not think i )ening it would be more justifiable, as it would be impossible to be sure of the thick- g -ss of the wall of the abscess; whilst, in either case, the patient would be endangered >Ji .'the bleeding which would follow wounding the lung; on which account, therefore, think it would be highly imprudent to risk so serious a consequence. I (2) I should also be exceedingly loath to open the chest on the opposite side, as here rj commended by Chelius.—J. F. S.] i • 1898. The dressing consists in the introduction of an oiled fold of half if [travelled linen, between the edges of the wounded pleura, without drop- i iugit into the cavity of the chest, its ends being fastened with sticking laster, and over it laid a plaster full of holes, soft lint and a compress d -operlv confined with a bandage over the chest and one shoulder. The itient should be laid so as to favour the discharge of the pus as much as A! issible. If the accumnlation be large, the dressing should be applied without discharging all i it. Pelletan (b) advises, in every case, the application of the above-described ’essing, so that the cavity of the pleura is opened, and the fluid can gradually escape, .d the air should not enter so that the lungs might expand. 1899. The after-treatment requires, according to the condition of the . itient, and the symptoms which may arise, a cooling, antiphlogistic, or a Aistorative treatment. The patient must be kept quiet, and not talk ; and rr.ie surrounding air should be properly dry and warm. The dressing iould be renewed as rarely as possible, at the utmost never more fre- Ipently than every twelve or fourteen hours. Injections employed for the purpose of encouraging the discharge are indeed usually objectionable. I t- ive, however, in cases where subsequently the discharge was very bad ■ id stinking, used injections of mucilaginous decoctions, with a slight ad- o tion of muriatic acid, and slightly astringent decoctions with advantage. ■ he wound must be kept open by this dressing as long as there is any P cretion. Tubes of elastic gum and the like, for this purpose, are objec- - unable; repeated experience, however, has shown that the mere intro- j lctlon of the fold of half unravelled linen is insufficient to keep the wound ■operly open. A fistulous aperture often continues for a long while, ‘ Inch only closes when the patient’s health is fully restored. To prevent the hectic fever which, after the operation for empyema, results from the ite? o«" and lts Putr«cence by the admission of air, RecImier (c) injects warm A 2° Reaumur, (95-99^° Fahu.,) immediately after the discharge of the fluid en k‘ ,i a .c<?r.resP°nding quantity to the discharge. The aperture should e 11 Wlth sticking plaster, and the patient laid with his pelvis high, so that pand wnly-COmplete-ly ^ the Cavity of the chest Jn proportion as the lungs Pand, m Inch is ascertained by auscultation, less water should be injected. b l!?0?: ^puncturing the chest with the trocar, between the fifth and ,‘n s’ ” t'iat Part yield a dull sound on percussion, and no respiratory ’ ~ rCeir!’ the P°int of the left forefinger is to be placed upon \ rusKn ei fu °/ t ie °lVer nb’ and the trocari held in the right hand, It not tr 1 n finSer-nai1 through the intercostal space, with sufficient s entered den ?Te3TT,e> tiU the °PP°sition offered cease, and shows it |e file S'.rW* ,°hesl; The “"“h is «« laken I,old of with S le left hand, and thrust deeper into the chest, whilst («) London Medical Gazette, vol. viii. p. 105.1831. 2 cited, v. ~9j. (t.) Bullet deTherap., vol. xii. 18J.% /.V . , vy wimuii 1 Y| (.0) Above cited, p. 295.476 PUNCTURING THE CHEST, AFTER-TREATMENT; (a) Above cited, p. 1G7 (c) Above cited, p. 174. with the right hand the trocar itself is withdrawn, immediately up / which the fluid streams out. From time to time the opening of the cam should be closed with the finger, so that the patient may inspire rather mo ^ deeply, and it may be seen when the discharge is completed; the cam should then be removed, and the finger placed upon the opening, whi is to be covered up with sticking plaster. Whilst the discharge is goi j on, to prevent the entrance of the air into the chest, and to assist the esca t of the matter, various modes of proceeding and practice have been reco t mended, as well also as different reasons proposed for the quantity matter to be drawn off. For the purpose of preventing the entrance of the air, valvular canulas and stop-coc ;o with syringes and cupping instruments attached to them, have been employed. Bocvre •< canula with a hall valve; Reybakd’s canula with a bladder; Recamier's trocar, t n front aperture of which, by drawing hack a stilette, is covered with a spring pa J Schch’s trocar, its canula furnished with a stop-cock, and a trough screwed on it, which the fluid as it escapes from the canula is collected, and may be raised higher th < the opening of the canula, being guarded with a leather valve. Krause (a) objects j Schuh’s trocar that its canula is too narrow to allow the escape of pus or thicker flu: d that the play of the leather valve is frequently out of order, so that the fluid sticks t its edge ; if the narrow canula be stopped up, the apparatus must be unscrewed, and ;> probe introduced. The following method has been recommended by Baum : the operat ;o holds above the plate of the canula, fixed by an assistant, a piece of goldbeater’s skin stretched with both hands that there remains only a small aperture, through which ff id fluid escapes directly. He must very carefully watch the discharge, so as to immediate ? close the opening air-tight by dropping down the goldbeater’s skin as soon as thestrea i begins to stop. Guerin, Stansky, and von Wattmann fasten a sucking pump to tl ; canula. Compare on the contrary von Winter (6). Laennec has proposed, in weak! patients, in whom the complete discharge of the fluid may cause dangerous fainting, ai u in cases where no cure can be hoped for, and the operation is undertaken only for relit vr that merely a part of the fluid should be discharged. According to Schuh, in those cas< ^ where the effusion is ten or twelve days’ old, the lungs and constitution healthy, and. . radical cure may be expected, as much as possible should be at once discharged, and th: a then it should be allowed to flow by the trough without much talking and effort. I li on the contrary, the pleurisy and its products be already a month old, and the patier ; cachectic; if there be htemorrhagic exudation, accompanied with tubercles on the lung - and no cure be expected, a small discharge will be sufficient, even when the fluid readil I empties itself with perfect freedom. Inattention to this circumstance produces 1 peritonitis, quick reproduction of the exudation, and pneumonia. Krause (c), on th other hand, remarks, that we may be deceived in regard to the existence of tubercles, s Skoda himself experienced in several instances ; and that, therefore, even in the moe r doubtful cases, the patient’s complete recovery should never be given up, and that it i x often not possible to retain the remaining fluid by the ordinary dressings. 1901. The symptoms which occur after puncturing the chest with th trocar, are, besides fainting, for which analeptics should be given, a violet) cough, which depends on the entrance of theair and of blood into the lungs . for which opiates must be given ,pleuritis, especially if the puncture be mad* whilst there is still inflammatory excitement, pneumonia, inflammation o the diaphragm, and speedy reaccumulation of the fluid. A corresponding antiphlogistic treatment must be employed for the inflammatory symptom* j and absorption of the recurring exudation, by those remedies wluc strengthen the powers and excite the secretions, such as diuretics. Kkacsi especially recommends milk at regular periods, and in gradually increasing , rmnntitv nnd iodide of iron. If the svmntonis of accumulating float quantity, and iodide of iron. If the symptoms of accumulating: urgent, the puncture must be repeated. t*J 1902. The preference of opening the chest by cutting, or by the trocar j (6) Jalirbiiclierdesarztlichen Vereincs m Munchen, Jahrg.1V- P i.l0.MODE AND CONDITION OF CURE. 477 k ust be decided by the following circumstances. In primary extravasation b "blood, and in accumulations of pus, the opening of the chest by cutting • ;to it should be considered preferable ; as in extravasation of blood its g ijoharge by the trocar cannot indeed be effected, and in the suppurative :i cumulation, a continued discharge must be kept up, under which cir- jt, amstance the union of the pleural surfaces is not produced by adhesion /, it only by firm exudation and granulations. On the other hand, puncture ritli the trocar is more proper in acute empyema and watery accumula- tion, in very weak patients, and when the operation is undertaken rather .■ ith a view to the relief of the patient. ; ■ In accumulations of pus Schuh has proposed, after removing the trocar-canula, to ■r troduce a gum elastic tube, and fasten it securely ; Krause, however, objects to this ■ i producing greater pain. If, together with the puncture, a cut be not made, the a mud, according to Krause, should be covered with a poultice; it closes, in course a few days, but, with the continued use of the poultice, sometimes opens again, and ■y. scharges pus constantly. If this be not done, a cut should be forthwith resorted to. 1903. The mode and condition by which, after the discharge of bloody, rous, or purulent extravasation from the cavity of the chest, the cure is .Mected, and the satisfactory or unsatisfactory result of the operation .ysues, is shown by the following circumstances confirmed by pathological latomy, In every large accumulation of fluid in the cavity of the chest the ng is compressed, the pulmonary vessels no longer permit the fluid to be ; operly poured forth, which, under natural circumstances, fill it, they "e gradually obliterated, the proper structure of the lungs wastes, and hangs quite shrivelled up, as on a stalk. If under these circum- ances fluid be discharged from the cavity of the chest, the lung is never ain expanded and developed, the space which had contained the fluid ' imains empty, and nature must effect the cure in some other way than ■ the development of the lung. Hence it must be concluded that the > suit of the operation is the more uncertain, the longer the accumulation fluid in the cavity of the chest has existed. If, after the discharge of 3 fluid, air enter the cavity of the pleura, which cannot by any precau- ■n be prevented, the walls of the cavity may inflame, and if the inflam- ition become violent, it may cause death. If the patient get over this nod, a profuse suppuration takes place over the whole surface of the 'Ura\ which runs through its stages with greater or less quickness, li wording to the constitution and age of the patient. A cure can only ppen when, by this development of granulations, by the successive ex- nsion of the lung, and by the dropping together of the chest, by which curve of the ribs is diminished and their form rendered more cylin- ca , thepZe2,m unites with the surfaCe 0f the lung. On these grounds - ^Plained why, in great and long continued accumulations, &c., in the ; the chest> and in old persons no cure in general takes place, • uugh in younger persons, in whom the walls of the chest are yet yield and if the accumulation have not existed long, the cure very com- .;nly, and often very quickly follows. The same changes affect the fiere abs^!n?-Ure Punchm»g with the trocar as those which occur Hause Sr ?f hi6 ,ias take» P^ce without the operation, i^rds and L° 1 ^ °hest in which the shoulder is drawn I ;8nd on tJM rn\1S lnclin®d towards the diseased side, which may U on the high position of the fistula in the chest («)• («) See Pellktan and Laurev, above cited.DROPSY OF THE PERICARDIUM; 478 Laennec (a) proposes, for the purpose of encouraging the expansion of the lung, i apply a cupping glass and syringe upon the wound. The return of resonance over the whole surface of the chest and of the respiratoiil murmur proves the subsidence of the effusion, but the continuance of the dull sou does not prove its continuance ; for very frequently pseudo-membranes form after pli ritic effusion, which overspread the lung to various extent, and in some instances co > pletely envelope it. As these pseudo-membranes produce a dull sound the continual. A of the effusion may he presumed, although it have already ceased. When these pseu< q membranes have long existed, and the patient is attacked with bronchitis or rheumaifl pain on the ailing side, it may be mistaken for an attack of pleurisy. But with pseu< q membranes the dull sound does not change its place according to the posture of t patient, and its height is not so well defined as in effusion. It rises to the same heig.l on the fore, and hind part of the chest, and this distinction is often so great thatt ft whole hind part of the chest gives the dull sound, whilst the fore part is perfect ;i sonorous. The dull sound may also exist at the upper or middle part of the che whilst the lower remains sonorous. A partial, circumscribed outpouring may, in tl i case, present the same peculiarity; but then, according to Louis, a partial elevation ; rt the chest has been noticed, as on the contrary, when the dull sound is caused by psenctj q membrane consequent on effusion which has compressed the lung, not unfrequently si slight sinking in of the diseased side is perceived by mensuration. When the raspbd it sound is also heard the presence of pseudo-membrane is beyond doubt (b). [The operation for empyema has been of late years not unfrequently performed -fug London, and an account has been given by the late and much regretted Dr. Thom S Davies (c) of the result of twenty-three cases, all of which, excepting six, were und his own care- Of these, eleven were operated on for empyema, eight recovered, t\ i died, and one was under treatment; nine for pneumothorax, all of whom died; ai three for hydrothorax, who also died. Davies observes, upon these cases:—“ Fir. The result of the operation in the cases of empyema is very satisfactory, eight of tl a patients out of ten have recovered. Of these, five were under six years of age, onew between eighteen and nineteen, and two were above twenty-five. Second. All ti l cases of pneumothorax were complicated with tubercular diseases of the lungs, a circur stance which, of itself, precluded a favourable result. All the patients were beyoi <: twenty years of age. Third. All the cases of hydrotliorax were the consequences -■« disease of the heart. Although none of the patients recovered, they were all relieve £sj by the operation for a considerable time.” (p. 43.)] VI.—OF DROPSY OF THE PERICARDIUM. (Hydrops Pericardii, Lat. ; Wassersucht des Herzbeutels, Germ.; Hy draper icarde, Fr.) 1904. Dropsy of the pericardium generally accompanies water in tli £ chest, and but rarely exists alone. The following symptoms accompan . it; the sensation of weight and pressure in the region of the heart, an. J a feeling as if the heart were swimming in water, great shortness r i breathing, and anxiety, which increases on the slightest movements of th I body, but especially in the horizontal posture, frequently going on t i faintness and danger of suffocation ; the beat of the heart is felt to a gr®1 extent, and at different parts ; also accompanied with violent palpitation I or more frequently a fluttering tumultuous movement of the heart, as l-j there were something lying within it. The dashing of water is often if I tinctly felt, or even seen between the third and fifth ribs. Ihe pulse i I small quick, hardish, often irregular and intermittent; cough occurs on; j spasmodically, and is dry ; the speech is difficult, and the voice hoar« ^ When the disease has existed long, the countenance is puffy, the ext l ties usually cold, and the patient feels a peculiar pain in the stomac an over the whole belly. Death follows either from suffocation or I apoplexy. (n) Above cited, vol. ii. p. 220. (V) Hibt*, P>0!fK (c) Cyclopaedia of Practical Medicine, above cited.DIAGNOSIS. 479 According to Laennec, slight effusions, as, under a pound, cause no decided symptoms; **< >ut those exceeding two or three pounds, are shown by percussion, auscultation, and in- : ii pection. £ jn Some cases of considerable pericardial dropsy, the breast-bone exhibits a remark- »s ible elevation. Piorry believes that a careful measurement would show greater disten- t ion of the left side from above downwards, or from the one side to the other. In one ( ase (a) the liver was so thrust down, that its lower edge projected two inches below the dge of the false ribs. If but little fluid be collected, it makes little pressure towards >; he sides of the pericardium ; therefore percussion discovers a dull sound, rather from J- bove downwards, than from side to side. This dull sound varies according to the dif- j erent posture of the patient, on his back, whilst sitting, or in lying on his side; the . • hange of place of the dull sound in the side posture is of less value than when on the * ack, or sitting, because it depends on displacement of the heart. In large collections r- f water, the stroke of the heart is, according to Bocillaud, deeper, less to be felt, and *> he accompanying murmur more obscure, less perceptible at a distance than in the i I atural state; and if to these symptoms be added a duller sound, the existence of dropsy ,v f the pericardium is exceedingly probable, even if it be not quite certain. (' According to Piorry, in large collections of water a perfectly dull sound is found in « pyramidal space; the base of which is the region of the heart, and the point at the MEBtj pper part of the breast-bone. [ Gendrin thinks that there is stabbing pain on the left side of the chest towards the ® boulder, arm, and back, opposite the base of the heart; or it may be confined to the o egion of the stomach on the outer edge of the ensiform cartilage, and is rarely want- lg; the point of the heart is displaced inwards and upwards to the top of the third S ib, and on account of the oblique position, of the large vessels thus caused, at the h lace of their opening, a rubbing noise is observed at the base of the heart, in the arch n f the aorta, and in the arteria innominata, which noise diminishes in proportion as the S - uid is absorbed. [' Hypertrophy and expansion of the heart may be distinguished by their slow origin, by i ie various condition of the beating of the heart, and by7 the dull sound, by the various Kji.ondition of the pericardium, and the dull sound in a round space. (Pigne.) El 1905. The quantity of water in the pericardium is various, and some- t .mes amounts to many pounds; it is usually like albumen, yellowish, f fhitish, reddish, and, when arising merely from a perverse secretion, is :(> naccompanied with any diseased change of the heart, or of the pericar- ) ium{b). Frequently is the pericardium united to the neighbouring ■arts, and thickened; the surface of the heart is inflamed, excoriated, ts imetimes covered with layers of purulent matter ; sometimes the water is |/)und in sacs attached to the heart or to the pericardium. At the same * me> other organic diseases of the heart, of the large vessels, and luno-s u re founcl> winch in many cases are the cause, and in other the conse- s: uence, of the pericardial dropsy, and therefore the fluid is of a different jvature. Chronic inflammation of the heart or its sac, wounds and the like ia) give rise to it: and predisposition thereto frequently originates in it regnancy and childbed. ° X /examX^v186^ 1jfla?Tnlation °f tIie pericardium runs on to suppuration: there is | he sJX'L°f h'S Vn.d W !'ch -has been 111 the Museum at St. Thomas’s many years. . , ?er was nnnei^T^^ f*J*e Pu of the stomach, and, being supposed an abscess of the ■1 rirnrdium h<? PUS ^.,scharged- . After death. the disease was found in the ■ amm. I do not know any further particulars of the case.—J. F. S.] l3S;oThen’ ln (l!'0p?y of tlie Pericardium. the diagnosis be decided, *i ise of the hea?tC®f?ined th^ ther!.is "0t any accompanying organic dis- . ater 6 eart’^ tlie usual remedies be unavailing, the emptying of the fcio" Teh0' -the b;°°d in (^’ 505), has been ^posed, an leered extrLeV^ous Pr“'i“ *** <"'*****’ must («) in Dict.de Med. et de Cl.irur:;. Pmt.,vol. x. p. 15S (b) Laennec; above cited, vol. ii. p.669.DROPSY OF THE PERICARDIUM; OPERATION. 480 This operation, first proposed by Senac, is rarely practised, and of all the cases pet 4 formed there are but two which had a favourable result. Kauawajew (a) has pet 4 formed it twice on account of exudation of blood into the pericardium, arising fror s scurvy ; one was fatal and the other successful, and in the latter case three and a hal 1 pounds of bloody fluid were discharged. Schuh (b) has also operated successfully. 1907. The seat and manner of making the opening have been various! ? given. A cut made on the left side, two fingers, and in a large extravasa Jr tion, at from four to five fingers’ breadth from the breast-bone, between th ) fourth and fifth, or fifth and sixth true rib, or at any other place, if th ; heart have haply changed its position, and there be distinct correspondin' t< fluctuation, carefully through the skin and muscles, down to the pleura■ M which must be opened with the greatest carefulness, and the opening en larged with the button-ended bistoury. The exposed pericardium is cau -i tiously opened with the bistoury, and the fluid allowed to escape gradually -fc Senac fixes the place for the opening between the third and eighth rit l and five or six inches from the breast-bone ; Camper between the fourt and fifth ; Romeiro and Larrey between the fifth and sixth ; and Desaul between the sixth and seventh rib. More recently, Larrey has propose f that in the space between the base of the sword-like cartilage and th * united cartilages of the seventh and eighth ribs, an oblique cut should b made along the lower edge of the cartilage of the seventh rib, to the es tremity of the eighth, by which some fibres of the m. rectus and obliquu . externus abdominis are cut through, and then should penetrate deepe i) through the cellular tissue, till that part of the pericardium is reache * which0projects between the first two digitations of the diaphragm, and int 4 which the knife is to be carefully thrust from above and to the left sidt il Hager’s proposal must also be mentioned, to draw out the exposed per. \ cardium with a thread, into the wound of the pleura, after the discharg i to bind up the opening, and to fasten the thread externally, so that A pericardium may unite with the wound. Skielderup (c) advises pe l foratina- the breast-bone between the fifth and sixth ribs, where the cartil lao-e of°the fifth rib joins the breast-bone, with a common trephine; and when, after the bleeding is stanched, the fluctuating pericardium into the aperture, to open it. This practice has the advantage o . ■ pericardium being laid bare at the part where it is directly m con 1 with the breast-bone, the pleura not at once opened, and the water n * poured into the cavity of the chest. Karawajew penetrates wrtni trocar, as advised by Senac, but warned against it by Desault, ■ ’ the fifth and sixth rib, three fingers’ breadth from the breast-bone, in « the pericardium; Schuh also uses the trocar in the fourth intercos space on the inner.side of the internal mammary artery. The dresswsi and after-treatment are the same as after opening the chest (d). Richerand (e) proposes to lay bare the front of the pericardium by rem g portion of the cartilage, and of the rib, and so to open it that not only the ”” ^ but such degree of adhesive inflammation is set up, that union of the secreting 1 and a radical cure ensues. (b) Above cited. l>e Trepanations Sterni et Aperture Peri- cardii ; in Acta Nord. Soc. Med. llarniensis, vol. i. , mo’. Haun., 1818. n, 11UUI1>) ioio. id) Senac, De la Structure du Camr, p. 3Go. Paris 1749.—VAN Swieten, Comment, in Aplio- rismos Boerhaavii, vol. iv. p. 138.— Desault, (a) Preuss. Verein7.eit. 1840. No. 52. . r ,BBKv, " CGuvres Chirurg., vol. il., p- -m , £ ' moires de Chlmrgie Militaire, vol. m. V Paris, 1812. 8vo. » nAtM et d* (r) Iliatoired une Resection dB&l" DisJC, Plevre, p. 10. Paris, 1.818. ^ p« sur le Danger de la Resection dcs Co . 1818.[ 481 ] If I —OF THE ACCUMULATION OF SEROUS AND PURULENT FLUID IN THE MEDIASTINA. 1908. A collection of water in the anterior mediastinum (Hydrops v iediastini) occurs only in connexion with dropsy of other kinds. More jquently a collection of pus or blood takes place in the mediastinum, in linsequence of an external wound which has penetrated the breast-bone, i lias injured its surface only after inflammation of the mediastinum, | Pleuritis Sternalis,) or it follows carious destruction of the breast-bone. [ 1909. The signs of such accumulation are more or less uncertain. If ■ ere be symptoms of inflammation of the mediastinum, fever, difficult heathing, pain behind the breast-bone, which generally extends down- irds towards the pit of the stomach, upwards towards the air-tube, and ll.ckgards towards the spine; if these symptoms be consequent on eternal injury, the pain subsides with frequent shiverings ; if the patient r<:bl a sensation of weight and pressure behind the breast-bone, if there be impression and hectic fever, no doubt can remain of the presence of pus 1 hind the breast-bone. If there be carious destruction accompanied with o,(fistulous opening, the introduction of a probe and the more free escape ? pus in particular positions of the patient, besides the above-described ■ :mptoms, point out the nature of the disease. If, soon after the breast-bone has been injured by external violence, difficult breathing, rsssure and weight behind the breast-bone, and general symptoms of hidden hfemor- • cage occur, an extravasation of blood has taken place into the mediastinum. 1910. When the existence of extravasation into the mediastinum is i certained, its removal is necessary, must not be long delayed, and is 1 fected by perforating the hr east-hone (Perforatio, Trepannatio.) This ■eration may be also necessary, in addition to the above-mentioned dis- V ses> for the purpose of removing a dead piece of the breast-bone, or in ■ der to make the reduction of a fracture possible (par. 624.) The part i which the perforation is to be made is directed according to the different fleets of the operation : thus, in extravasation, the aperture is to be made •posite it, and where possible at the lowest part; if the ends of a fracture driven in, upon the still firm remaining part of the bone near the edge at is depressed ; and in caries must be so made upon it, that all the ' seased part may be removed. I cut *s to ke made about an inch and a half in length along the iddle line of the breast-bone through the skin, its middle correspondino- t ,‘“e l)art to be perforated. The edges of this wound are then drawn inder by assistants, the periosteum cut through to the extent of the ') Tan-crown, and then removed with a scraper. The perforation is best £ mi 44i \ Vrephine’ accor<Jing to the rules laid down in trepanning ■ I he perforated bone must be lifted out with an elevator, and T y connexions with the internal periosteum divided with the knife. | th a trocar VuhoumiTa!iula*^J°D° is stiU ^tilagiuous, the perforation can be made d sonnir, er 10 lc;0 ecte< Pu'(* Pas been discharged by proper posture h ece of if Up Wlth ,a sP0,1ge) .a simple dressing must be applied, and a 1 stenerl fp,r?at^ ointment introduced into the wound ' Lndaee rr|S ”C r^ P^as*;er’ an^ bound on with a scapular and chest vol ir 10 (Mter~^rea^ment depends on the ensuing symptoms of 2 rDROPSY OF THE BELLY; 482 inflammation and suppuration, and is much the same as that directed aft l| the operation of empyema. Upon Trepanning the Breast-bone, see De la Martiniere, Memoire sur l'Operation du Trepan au sternum; in Mem. N l’Acad. de Chirurg., vol. iv. p. 515. Clossius, De perforatione Ossis Pectoris. Tubing., 1795. Fabrice, Diss. de Empyemate Mediastini ejusque curatione, ope Trepani. Altai 1796. (Hydrops Abdominis, Ascites, Lat.; Bauchwassersucht, Germ.; Hydropisie, Ascile, F j Martini, F., Ueber die Art der Abzapfung des Wassers bei der Bauchwassersuc;«i in his chirurgischen Streitschriften, vol. ii. p. 25. Monro, Donald, M.D., An Essay on the Dropsy and its different species. Lond< . 1765. 8vo. Third Edition. Ackermann, De Paracentesi Abdominis. Jen®, 1787. Spiritus, Dissert, varise rationes Paracentesis Abdominis instituendse. Jen®, 1< Ehrlich’s Beobachtungen von der Bauchwassersucht; in his chirurgiscfca Beobachtungen, vol. i. chap. x. 1913. In dropsy of the belly, the water collects either in the wbc cavity of the peritoneeum, ( General Dropsy,) or in a proper sac, (EncyM Dropsy,) which maybe attached either to the peritoneeum, or to one of folds or it may be formed on some one particular bowel, most commor- to the ovary ( Ovarian Dropsy.) In both cases, if the accumulation water be so great as to produce distension and fluctuation of the belly, a rlr, nnt vield to the usual remedies, then its removal by tapping (Far v VIII.—OF DROPSY IN THE BELLY.483 TAPPING. I ascites, the front wall of the belly is in general most considerably |L{ended,' and the straight muscles become much broader, there is not I frequently danger in making the puncture at the spot mentioned, of ufounding either a part of the belly where the muscles are thicker, or the ligastric artery, or one of its branches. On this account the puncture on j lewhite line, two or three inches below the navel, where the walls of the r; dly are generally thinnest, and no injury of any one artery is to be feared, iu preferable (a). * [According to Astley Cooper (b) we, at least in England, are indebted to the elder o'! line for the adoption, if not the proposal, of tapping in the white line. “ His reason io r this change was, that in the spreading of the abdominal muscles from the pressure i. the water, the epigastric artery is brought into a situation of risk of being wounded i • the trocar. This happened to him in tapping a person in SL Thomas’s Hospital: j. ,rid blood issued through the canula, and the quantity gradually increased as the Hater flowed: as the patient was becoming faint, he withdrew the canula, and closed is e wound, but the bleeding continued into the abdomen, and the man died; upon inspec- | mthe epigastric artery was found wounded.” (p. 381.)] 1916. When decided hardening of the bowels is felt, another, and indeed 0 le most distinctly fluctuating part is to be chosen : in encysted dropsy rnt, where the fluctuation is the most strong, care, however, being always ■i iken to avoid the epigastric artery; the navel, if its surface be distended ke a bladder; the scrotum, if there be a rupture-sac without gut or ty mentum; the vagina, when, by the pressure of the water, it is protruded. 6 n the latter two cases, care must, however, be taken that a piece of gut r amentum have not united with the rupture-sac, and that the protrusion f the vagina have not been caused by the bowels, especially by the urinary it ladder (<?). 1917. The patient is to be put into a half sitting posture, but, if very fl 'eak, he must be laid more horizontally on a bed, with the part where the 1 peration is to be performed towards its edge (1). A broad belly bandage, aving a four-cornered hole opposite the part to be punctured, is then 0 pplied and drawn rather tightly upon the back by assistants. The > perator holds a trocar of proper thickness, and furnished with a silver anula in his right hand, so that the forefinger stretches along the latter, II o about an inch and a half of the point of the trocar, which he pushes in 1 nth a rotatory motion and rather obliquely through the walls of the 1 ’dly, the thumb of the left hand being placed below the point of punc- ure- _ A diminution of the obstruction shows that the trocar has entered | afficiently deep, and then the operator, with the finger of his left hand, ixes and holds fast the canula at the edge of the perforated skin, with the 'tner hand draws out the trocar and allows the water to escape, the a ssistants generally tightening the belly-bandage in proportion, whilst nother assistant, with both his hands spread upon the sides of the belly, s noderately compresses it. If the quantity of water be large, the mouth of I >e canula should be frequently closed with the finger, or otherwise an J1 'verloading of the blood vessels of the belly and fainting will quickly •ccur. If the flow of water should be checked by the clogging of the I ^fnu , or anything lie against its inner end, either a probe must be I. r0f(!uced or a thinner canula, closed at its end but with openings on I ?'le» or ^ie direction of the canula already introduced must be changed, I 1 must be withdrawn a little. If the operation be performed on an i uwervAMUE''’ Dictionary of Practical (ft) Lectures on Surgery, by Tyrrcli., vol. ii. ’ fi‘ B1, (c) Zanq, Opcrationen, vol. iii. p. 2!)5. 2 x 2DROPSY OF THE BELLY; 484 incurable patient, merely for the purpose of relief, and the accumulat of water be very great, only a third, or, at furthest, not more than lu should be allowed to escape. When the fluid is so thick that it cam: escape through the canula, it is recommended to introduce a longer troc or to enlarge the wound with a knife, or with a piece of tent iutrodur. into the wound (2). A round and tolerably thick trocar is undoubtedly the best instrument for tapping ( [ (1) Before the operation of tapping is performed it is always advisable to pa: catheter so as to ensure the emptiness and safety of the bladder ; and this may alst. useful in correcting any mistake in the diagnosis as to the cause of the swelling, si o-i-eat distension of the bladder, from retention of urine, may so completely simu dropsy as to deceive the most wary ; at least, since John Hunter was deceived, : tapped a distended bladder for dropsy, if Everard Home tell truly, it well beht others to be cautious. . . , In women, also, it is especially necessary that no mistake should occur with reg to the condition of the womb. I knew of an instance in which a pregnant woi would most certainly have had a trocar thrust into the womb by a very eminent b geon had he not been providentially prevented by the better knowledge of an able p titioner in midwifery. Such dreadful errors have, however, been perpetrated. (2) I do not think a trocar of any kind is the best instrument for tapping. I were certain that the walls of the belly were always thin, and not tough, it might, j haps, be so, though I doubt it. But the wall of the belly is very often, nay, very quently thick, from effusion into the cellular tissue between the skm and muscles, ■: often tough also, and therefore the trocar requires to be thrust in with more force t is advisable or safe ; and it is only surprising that, in the careless way in which tapp is too frequently performed, so little mischief results from it, as too frequently danger of wounding an intestine by driving a trocar with a plunge into the belly u the hilt, does not seem to enter the mind of the operator. I much prefer the On: practice of puncturing the wall of the belly with an abscess-lancet and then in ducing a blunt-ended canula through the wound, notwithstanding Samuel Loop. assertion that “ it is superfluous.” Immediately the lancet, which should be rntrodn with its edges vertical, has entered the cavity, the fluid begins to escape, aud a bl canula can be passed without difficulty through the wound. In this way there u opportunity, or at least as little probability as possible, of injuring an mtestine, the wound, instead of being a bruised one, as it is from the trocar, is a simple clean most favourable for union. . . . I do not recollect to have seen any instance in which it was necessary to stop escape of the water from the belly on account of the overloading of the vessels or a ing. It is very true that in tapping a dropsy faintness does often occur, but depends on the want of support which the diaphragm suffers from .thejrithdrawa the fluid, which had previously thrust it up into the chest and diminished the of the lungs ; but when, by the escape of the water from the belly, and consequent re of the diaphragm from pressure, the lungs aud heart have increased room, au *. of receiving, aud do receive more blood at the expense of the brain, thei ensues. To prevent the diaphragm losing its acquired support, and to proem sudden descent and the consequent fainting, the common practice of a■ £bee passed round the belly, crossed on the back, and the two ends continually but pa. pulled by assistants, so as to keep the sheet tight and support the remaining cori t the belly against the diaphragm, and not merely to hasten the flow ot tue waw generally supposed, should be always employed. „nfppon If whilst the water flow off the patient become faint, which is not at all nnnF* the tightness of the draw-sheet should be carefully attended to, aud wine or given m such quantity as may seem fitting.—J. F. S.] 1918. When the water is emptied, the operator grasps the canula » the fingers of his right hand, closing its mouth at the same time wiJ finger, whilst with the fingers of the other hand the wall ot th . held back, and the canula slowly withdrawn by turning it on i I'/i'l Upon the different forms of trocar consult MANN.Uetersichtderberuhmteste^undje ^ C.usovius Dissert, quanovemParacenteseosinstru- liclistcn Instrumente, p. l mention ortertur, rfegiomont 1722 ; in Hallers Akiolog.e. Collect. Dissert. Chirurg., vol. v. p. Oil.— Ahnk-TAPPING; AFTER-TREATMENT. 485 . he wound is then cleaned, covered with a four-cornered piece of sticking 'aster, a compress put upon it, and the belly-bandage having been mode- itely tightened, is made fast. Bleeding may occur after tapping in three ways -.—first, by wounding a bowel in | ushing in the trocar, blood then escapes mingled with the water ; second, by rent of the $ ood-vessels from overfilling, after the quick removal of the pressure ; in this case, S: wards the end of the operation, the water is tinged with blood; and, third, by wounding .; ,e epigastric artery, or one of its branches, the blood then appears after the removal of rie canula, or it may be poured into the belly and symptoms of hidden bleeding ensue. In the first two cases proper compression of the belly with cold applications should gt > employed; in the third attempts should be made to stanch the bleeding, by the troduction of a stiff bougie or a piece of wax taper into the wound, or the wall of the > lly should be raised into a fold and compressed for some hours (a). e The external branch of the external epigastric artery, generally the largest, is some- ay mes scarcely observable, whilst on the contrary the vessel itself, with its principal -anches, passes upwards and inwards, where on tapping, a dangerous bleeding readily i isues if one or other of them be very large (6). r [I once, very soon after becoming Assistant Surgeon to St. Thomas’s Hospital, had S jf.ie misfortune to puncture the epigastric artery in tapping a dropsy of the belly. I had Spped this patient on the first occasion in the usual place, on the white line, midway .'tween the pubes and navel. Some weeks after my friend Green tapped him again, ■rbd about a month after, a third tapping was performed by me. Fancying that per- bnps the scar would not readily heal if I tapped in the same place again, I passed the at meet into the white line scarcely half an inch below the old scar, and afterwards the unt canula. As the water flowed he became very faint, but not more so than I have equently seen without any ill consequence ; and indeed wounding the epigastric artery 2'er crossed my mind, for I felt assured I was far away from it; nor was there any iv ood with the water, or from the wound afterwards, to lead to suspicion. Wine and r “indy were given, and he was put to bed quickly. He gradually sunk, and died m ithin twelve or fourteen hours. On examination, the belly was found full of blood, I i iould think four or five pints ; and on carefully dissecting the wound and its neigh- 'd Durhood, the epigastric artery was found to have inclined inwards, very soon after its f; rigin from the iliac, and ran up behind the white line through a large part of its d dent, between the pubes and navel, so that it was remarkable the vessel had escaped | onnd in the first two operations. From this untoward case I learnt a lesson I have ol ever forgotten, and which I would anxiously impress, to wit, that if tapping be per- i >rmed safely at one spot, it should be again and again performed in the same place, if !■> is patient required tapping twenty times. I have known another example very similar &■ - my case, which happened in the private practice of a medical friend, and with the HP; lme painful result. « I also had another case in which there was considerable difficulty in drawing off the to ater at all, as I had tapped with a trocar and open canula, and the intestines fell so i. pon the edge of the tube that I could only give escape to the fluid by introducing a S 'Hg elastic gum catheter through the canula into the belly. In this case, the water was '! ^uchA'nged with blood, and, on the removal of the catheter and canula, there was a and free 'kscharge of dark-coloured blood from the wound, which alarmed me much ! ™ was stayed with difficulty by pressure on the sides of the wound. No ill conse- r uc ’ however> ensued, and some time after I tapped her again without recurrence of Whe‘hf corl'ectl>' °r I presumed, from the dark colour of the I ’ttiat 1 had wounded some large veins.—j. f. s. *, m/*£!0N mentions an “ instance which he witnessed : clear serum issued for some I lnk ‘ i'5h the canu.la’ but at len6th Pure blood> not less than a pint. The patient I .CllME3“C" to ,n:es.iga,? the cam, of the blooding. In another irancrp v.. * n . — o* — — ui me uh^uiijh. in anotner |ooff fi’ i ^ell-authenticated case, the almost incredible quantity, twenty-six pints, of i TUt,.at thC ?rifiCcC rJe by thc tr0Car’ and afterwards separated into clot I, ie tapping le W°n(ler f those who saw the incident, the patient recovered from U ug, and the source of the homiorrhage is still a matter of conjecture.” (p. ;399.)] enwm- f°r lirst two f,ays after the operation, tlic patient should be " q et’ an(J avowed only a little light food. On the third day the (*0 Edinlmrrri, \r i . c Me<bcal Commmiicalions, vol. ii. p ai.la^b Mcd' a"d Sur«- •*ou,nab vol. viii. (c) bectures l’liysic, vol. ii. 482. on the Principles and Practice of486 DROPSY OF THE OVARY; DIAGNOSIS; dressings may be replaced, and at the same time rubbing in volatile oin fj ments, spirituous fluids, or diluted spirit of ammonia. If there be i fj flammation of the diaphragm, or of the bowels, the patient must be treat) I antiphlogistically, with due attention to the state of the constitution. Tl 1 inflammation sometimes runs on very speedily to gangrene or to suppur fj tion. Colicky pains, if not inflammatory, require aromatic waters, wi .j the addition of some antispasmodic. If the water re-collect, the operati) % must be repeated, when fluctuation is again distinct. 1920. The following remarks must be made in reference to the differe i) parts at which tapping must be, under peculiar circumstances, (par. 1916 j performed. In puncturing through the navel, the trocar must be thru through its bladder-like distension and the enlarged navel-ring. Punctu \ through the scrotum must be performed in the same way as will 1 i directed for hydrocele. In puncturing through the vagina (a), after ha S ing forced the water down still more into the pelvis, by means of a bell band, the patient must be laid upon the edge of the bed, her thighs sept rated, the trocar and canula introduced into the vagina on the forefing of the left hand, and then thrust .into the most fluctuating part. J encysted dropsy, after the swelling has been made very tense by placii a folded towel upon the belly above and below it, the trocar must be i troduced at the most fluctuating part. If the water be contained in sever sacs, it should be attempted, after introducing the trocar into one them, withdrawing the stilette and drawing off the water, to press the oth sacs against the inlying canula, and with the trocar again introduced open them; or they should be severally punctured. [Among the variety of schemes proposed for the cure of dropsy in the belly, the i , genious one of Buchanan (b) is worth adverting to, though it was not successful. B | object was to ascertain the effect of a communication between the cavity of the pent iiceum and that of the bladder, for which purpose he employed a curved trocar, smiu , to that commonly used in retention of urine. He first introduced the canula throup the urethra, towards the upper and fore part of the bladder, pushing it as far as possit up, to keep the coats of the bladder stretched; and then passing the trocar through lip, IU ivccp I JL1VJ l-uaro m laav. r— o - , i without difficulty punctured the bladder, and, withdrawing it, the water flowed ireen tmuuut UAAUV.UAUJ gliuviuivw - 7 7 O' , The aperture closed within a fortnight, and the operation was again resorted to, with the same result. About a fortnight after, the operation was repeated, but with better success, and was therefore given up.] 1921. Of all dropsies, that of the ovary is the most common. TI | fluid is of different nature, colour, and consistence, is contained either 11 one or several sacs, the walls of which are of different thickness. In mo j cases, this dropsy is accompanied with other degenerations and diseasal productions of the ovary, hydatids, steatomatous, and sarcomatous change i bony, stony, and other concretions. J The diagnosis of dropsy of the ovary is often difficult when the dis «- sion is very great. The following circumstances may direct the pra' I titioner: the swelling begins at one particular spot, on one or others! cl at which there is often weight or painful feeling for a long time, o = j after the stoppage of the menses, often after suppression of discharge* ■ j the generative organs. With considerable distension, there is also o I observed an irregular condition of one or other side of the belly. > 111 1IIIC 1 VIUI1I civtv - • .. 1 some parts, a resisting hardness. The state of the general health is usua y disturbed than in ascites. The situation of the vaginal part of the uom the (a) Watson, Henry, A Caseof Ascites, in which le water was drawn oil' by tapping the Vagina ; (6) Glasgow Medical Jot in Medical Communications, vol. don, 17S4. i Journal, vol. i. p. 195. 1S28. i. p . Iff- bo487 PUNCTURING IN ENCYSTED DROPSY. . ostlv changed, and dragged to one or other side. If the water be col- ]cte(f in several sacs, or there be also other kinds of degeneration, the veiling- can be only partially emptied by the puncture, and is then more distinctly felt, and may even be displaced. But if, with ovarian dropsy, ( iere be"also ascites, the kind of disease and the contents of the belly can ily perhaps be determined after previous tapping. Both ovaries are rarely •opsical at once; and the left is more frequently so than the right. According to Blasius (a), ovarian dropsy appears under three forms, as hydrops >/s idatidosus°saccutus, or cellulosus. In the first form, a number of hydatids are found nsneath the serous membrane of the ovary; in the second, the water is collected in a - Tstinct sac beneath the serous membrane; in the third, it is contained in numerous wills within the substance of the ovary. These cells are originally Graafean vesicles, • ive thick walls, hut in which openings are often formed by the pressure of the water, g , that several cells communicate together, or even tear on the surface next the cavity 'the belly, and discharge the water into it; or, in rare cases, when the Fallopian tube ■iis its open end applied to the ovary, the water escaping by the tearing of the corre- ^rdionding cell is discharged through the tube into the womb, and escapes by the vayitia; n which case, the patient, from time to time, loses a pale or discoloured bloody .'• sinking water, by which the swelling of the ovary is at the same time remarkably diminished, and the inconvenience, which it had at first caused, frequently subsides. :;uny immediate external violence is not necessary to cause this. Blasius has collected • camples of this kind, and has distinguished it as hydrops ovarii profluens. 1922. As puncturing an encysted dropsy, and especially that of the (Vary, is only a palliative, various modes of proceeding have been proposed : or the radical cure. After making the puncture, the canula of the •ocar should be left in, to diminish the size of the sac, and then by enlarging the wound to excite adhesive inflammation, or by introducing a >j .exible tube to keep up the discharge. Ollenroth (b), after first : taking the usual puncture, thrusts in a round-ended tube through the % inner. leaves it there some days, empties the fluid several times a day, and pplies moderate pressure on the belly. Le Dran (c) made an opening ffito the sac upon a director introduced through the trocar canula, or im- mediately upon it, to the extent of four or five inches, held the wound .pen, and endeavoured by injection or by the introduction of wadding to - 'estroy the sac, or bring about its growing together. Littre (d) effected y Bis by injection. Chofart and Desault (e) opened the sac with caustic, • y which it gradually flaked off. Dzondi (f) opened the sac with a cut, assed in a bougie, and separated the loose sac with forceps. King (<7), Vest (/t), and Jeaffreson (i), puncture the swelling and enlarge the {Wound, or make a cut on a fold of the wall of the belly, open the peri- r imaum, carry a ligature through the exposed cyst, empty it with a punc- ure, draw theswelling gently forward, put a ligature around its stalk, cut ff the sac in front of the ligature, and then unite the wound. But when here also exists degeneration of the ovary, or complete steatomatous altera- 1 >on, in which the former modes of treatment can have no satisfactory result, ') ;or the purpose of effecting a radical cure, De la Porte and Morand (h) proposed the extirpation of the diseased ovary; and L’Aumonier (Z), ^OT7rnontatio <'c H yd rope Ovnriormn pro- d 1H34. W.J) > Kjghter, Anfangsgrfinde, vol. v. p. 165- r.«lM*m0’r0 de VAca‘'- de Chirurg., vol. ii. (<0 Meni.de I’Aawl. des Sciences. 1707, p. 502. (e) CEuvres Ghirurgicales, vol. ii. p. 238. (/) BeitrSge 7.11 r Vervollkommung der Heil- knnde, vol. i. Halle, 1816. (g) Lancet, 1836-37, vol. i. p.586. (A) Ibid., 1837-38, vol. i. p. .>07. (i) Transactions or Provincial Medical Associa- tion, vol. v. p. 239. 1837. (A) Mem. de l’Acad. de Chiiurgie, vol. ii. p. 452 p. 455. (1) Ilist. de la Soc. Roy. do Mcdecine, vol. v. p. 296. 1782OVARIAN DISEASE, 488 Smith (a), Lizars (b), Ciirysmar (c), and Quittenbaum (fl), hat t successfully performed it. The practicability of this operation depern (j on the usually thin stemmed attachment of the dropsical and otherwi) 4 degenerated ovary, which is merely formed by the broad ligament, ar tj has usually no considerable adhesions. The wall of the belly must 1 ;i cut into on one side or the other of the white line, according to the set--4 of the swelling, and to a corresponding length, in which the protrusion < « the intestines must, as in the Caesarean operation, (par. 1844,) 1 prevented. The swelling is now carefully separated from whatevi-j attachment it has to the omentum, the peritonccum, and so on, wit- t the fingers or with the knife, and drawn out through the wound ; the no>: 9 apparent thin stem is pierced near the womb with a needle, and tied t 9 means of a double thread, to prevent the ligature slipping off. TH I stem is then cut through before the ligature, which is brought out at tl bottom of the wound, which is to be united after the rules above give i for the Caesarean operation. (1) Here also must be noticed Recamier’s (e) mode of treatment; the swellit t is emptied with a flat trocar, the canula thrust into the blind end of the peritonceum ti it is felt in the vagina, into which it is thrust, and an elastic tube introduced. Tl result was fatal. [(2) Brown (f) advises a combined constitutional treatment, with tapping and vei tight bandaging. He sums up the principal points in the successful treatment of tl four cases he has given in the following words:—“ I shall divide the treatment ini i constitutional, local, and treatment after tapping. First, constitutional; mercnria . administered internally, as alteratives, and externally by friction oyer the abdomen, an. continued till the gums are slightly yet decidedly affected, and this affection must 1 continued for some weeks. I lay particular stress upon this point. At the same tint diuretics must be given, and after the first week tonics should be combined with thenij The food should consist of light animal diet, and should be unstimulating, and thj patient should take daily exercise in the air. Second, local treatment; the careful an constant application of tight flannel bandaging, so as to procure considerable pressur over the tumour. When it is proved that the abnormal action has been checked pJ ^ positive decrease of the tumour, and a continuation of such decrease, or by a positive noi increase for some weeks, then the cyst should be tapped, and its fluid evacuated. Thin^ after-treatment; accurate padding (napkins folded in a square form and placed one ore the other, so as to form a firm pad) and tight bandaging over the cyst aud bell} gewe* rally, for two or three weeks after tapping, and the medicine and friction continued lc 9 at least six weeks. I would particularly wish to enforce the importance^ of the anew treatment, as on that depends very much the success or failure of the case. (p. IS O B Bonfils (g) aud Camus (/<) recommend, that after puncturing the cyst and witi drawing the water, the canula should be briskly moved in different directions, to b j and even tear the wound in the walls of the cyst, to prevent the adhesion of its eogBH and allow the continual escape of the fluid into the cavity of the pentonaum, w it will be absorbed. Berard, however, thinks that the movements of the instrument rather excite adhesive inflammation and obliteration of the sac. _ I (3) With regard to the advantage derived from tappingan ovarian dropsy, South am y * observes, from the analysis of twenty cases which he recites, “that ;i(/rnrrn/«SMJ which is generally considered the most effectual palliative, not only afi'ords a vc ; temporary relief, but is by no means unattended with danger. Thus fourteen dig within nine months after the first operation, four of whom survived it only a few | Of the remaining six, two died in eighteen months, and four lived for periods vairwij from four to nearly nine years. It further appears that paracentesis does not pro . I (a') Edinburgh Med. and Surg. Journal, vol. xviii. p. 532. 1822. (6) Observations on the Extraction of Diseased Ovaria, p. 9. Edinburgh, 1825, fob (n) In Hopff.k, Ueber Exstirpation krankhafter Eierstcicke ; in Graefe und W.vlther's Journal, vol. xii. P* 60. ((i) Quittenbaum, C. F., Solcmnia Ohbisti nate precelebranda indicit. InestCommentatio de Ovarii hvpertrophia ot Ilistoria Extirpations hypertrophici et hydropici prosperocum sucres, facial. Rostochii, 1 35. fto. (c) Revue Mrdicale, vol. i. p. 19. v*j .„re\ (/) Cases of Ovarian Dropsy, &c.; in nan 1843-4-1, vol. i. (pi Gazette Mcdieale, vol. xi. (ft) Ibid., vol. xili. r „ -to 184S (t) London Med. Gaz., vol. xxxn. p.OPERATIONS FOR. 489 ^ on an average for more than eighteen months and nineteen days ; and that one in B ye (i;es 0f the first operation. Another fact to be gathered from the table is, that the is eritoiurum being more prone to inflammatory action in some persons than in others, I meated tappings, instead of proving barriers to extirpation, show that (other circum- | aj,ces favourable) there is much less risk of inflammation fol lowing the operation (of it emoving the ovary.)” (pp. 237, 38).] . , , > The operations now generally performed for the extraction of dropsical or otherwise I ]seased ovary, are distinguished by the names, the small and the large operation. The small operation was evidently suggested by Dr. William Hunter (a), who *■ bserves:—“ If it be proposed, indeed, to make such a wound in the belly as will tit' dmit only two fingers or so, and then to tap the bag and draw it out, so as to bring j s root or peduncle close to the wound of the belly, that the Surgeon may cut it off inthout introducing his hand, surely in a case otherwise so desperate, it might be ik Ivisable to do it, could we beforehand know, that the circumstances would admit of 4s lat treatment.” (p. 45.) r, This operation was performed first and with success by Jeaffreson (b) of Framling- n am, in Suffolk, in 1836, and consisted in “ an incision of between ten and twelve lines i the course of the linea alba, midway between the navel and the pubes, and having »aus carefully exposed the sac he evacuated by the trocar, about twelve pints of clear •rum. During the flow of the serum, a portion of the sac was secured in the gripe of 5 forceps, to prevent its receding; and he afterwards extracted the sac entire from the fcb ivity of the abdomen, together with another sac containing two ounces of fluid; indeed v le entire ovary, having only to cut through a slight reflection of the peritonaeum and In varian ligament, which, with the exception of a small portion of the fimbriated extre- “i lity of the Fallopian tube, are the only natural attachments of the ovary to the uterus. ■ | -lut as this part was the medium of vascular supply to the sac, and the vessels on the ■i • irface of the sac were unusually large, but he thought right to include it in a ligature Si revious to returning it into the cavity of the abdomen; the ends of the ligature were ■; it off close to the knot.” (p. 242.) In King’s case (c) in which the same operation was urerformed, it was necessary, “ towards the termination of the extraction, that the open- 's* >g be enlarged to above three inches; and the obstruction which rendered this requisite, insisted of a solid tumour of about two and a half inches in diameter.” (p. 589.) ■ ‘ fkst’s was the third case, and he made a cut of two inches long in the linea alba, an >1- ich below the navel. The large operation, as practised by Macdowall of Kentucky, Lizars and Clay, is escribed by the latter (d) as “ a large incision of eighteen or twenty inches in length, or •om the ensiform cartilage to the pubes, the ovarian tumour is fully exposed, its pedicle id adhesions separated, its vessels secured, and the whole mass removed entire.” V alne (e,) who follows the same practice, after having made a small opening of an ich and a half in length below the navel, for the purpose of ascertaining the existence * any adhesions which may prevent the propriety of proceeding with the operation, lakes a cut of about thirteen inches, leaving a space of three inches from the pit of the ;°mach, and another an inch and a half from the pubes undivided. He advises, also, iat the skin should be marked with lunar caustic across the linea alba, previous to the peration, so as to ensure its proper re-adjustment afterwards. 1 he preliminary treatment consists in abstinence from animal food, and a general itiphlogistic regimen a few days previous to the operation, and Bird strongly recom- ‘ mis attention to the temperature of the room which was kept at 85° Fahr., and cra- uniy lowered as the patient became convalescent.] il923. In the critical examination of these various modes of treating en- y» ^dropsy, especially that of the ovarium, the following- circumstances ust be borne in mindthat in all cases in which the disease does not J*?™ annoyance, any operation is to be considered unallowable, as fre- „.i .,y th® tumour,when it has reached a certain bulk remains stationary, „]v Pf'^tmay ^ve f°r a long while; but by the puncture there is flench- ief’ 85 the fluid general]y re-collects so much the quicker the («) Re * 1S Puncturec*’ Sometimes life is much prolonged by repeated »« of itT Diseases uf¥,d lio" ofJPis,e“ed Ovaria.by the large incision, &c.; ani762Phy- MwmC8' V°L PP- 5;)’ °7’ 83> (*) Above cited. GA r'b°Te ' of Periton®al Section for the Extirpa (e) Removal of a Dropsical Ovarium entirely by the large operation. Two pamphlets, 1831.490 LARGE AND SMALL OPERATIONS tapping, but at other times fatal inflammation soon comes on. Only extremely rare instances does the puncture produce a radical cure (a). Ft tunate results have indeed been published of cutting into, injecting thesa and the like, but in the greater number of cases the result has been unsu cessful (1). The same also applies to extirpation, which, however, if t radical cure be undertaken in degenerated, hypertrophied ovary, vvh the position and attachments of the swelling are well made out ($ may be considered as the operation most to be depended on, and frequent performance with success does away with Boyer’s (6) dou of the possibility of carrying it into practice. In like manner, in drop of the ovary without other degeneration, the operation of openii the wall of the belly with a small cut, drawing out the cyst wh< emptied, and carefully cutting it off, after putting a ligature around itsstei (King, West, Jeaffreson,) appears preferable to all the other metho proposed for a radical cure, and is supported by the successful cases pu lished, as well as the fact, that such tumours, often even when of gre size, contract no adhesions with the peritonceum. On the other han it has been objected that although this operation at the first glan appears safest and easiest, as only a small cut is required, and t bowels are subjected to less serious influences, these advantages may outweighed by the difficulty of drawing the large mass through a sm: wound so as to reach and tie its stem ; whilst the large cut puts the patie in no greater danger of inflammation than the small one, and k the advantage of getting at the stem with certainty, and of drawing o the tumour without danger. This objection cannot be assented to, as - dropsy of the ovary, unaccompanied with other degeneration and adhesiot the smaller cut presents indisputable advantages, and therefore the advi is good, always to make first a small cut between the navel and the pubt so as to ascertain if there be any adhesions (c) (3). (1) The puncture of an hydropic ovary through the vagina, cutting into thecae, ® the various kinds of injection, are always followed, according to Cai.lisen, with a k (2) ^Martini, in one instance, found it impossible to draw out the tumour to « 1)£lS0 Cc) ^ rr.3) As to the preference of the small over the large operation, or thf contrary, mn must depend upon the character and size of the diseased ovary, and which can . decided in the course of the operation. It would seem, however, onl} r^as01*‘ ’ r making the exploratory cut for the purpose of ascertaining whether t ic tuim from adhesions, first to attempt its removal by the small cut, and afterward it, if necessary. , , .. . The results of the published cases of both the small and large operati .j, as far as possible, collected by Phillips, Jeaffreson, and up to the (July 1846) by T. Safford Lee, who has recently received the Jacksoni P , a very able paper “ On Tumours of the Uterus and its Appendages, not ) P hut from which he has kindly furnished me with the most perfect accoun tained: which, however, is only perfect comparatively, as one of the P°^"' , believed to have operated on the greatest number of cases in this town at press- not made known the results of his experience . h;ch t It appears from Phillips’s (/) table, that of the forty-five cases in ^ large cut and the removal of the tumour entire was practised, the mini _ntents cases was only eighteen ; whilst of the twenty-five in which as much o succeede 4i,n cnn wore withdrawn as was nossible, and the small cut only used, tic cases was only rigmeen ; miusioi uic ““ , ; , the sac were withdrawn as was possible, and the small cut only used, tic ■ ^ (n) BoYFn, Traite des Maladies Chirurgicales, mandois; in Journ. de Midec., par V°W B-Sniite des Maladies China*.*., V GO Sys?ema bhimrglai, vol. ii. n. 71. - Van- Se'nei vol.i p 473 1843.-bovTHA«, ^ (/) Meu.-Cliir. Trans., vol. xxvii. p. 4i3. 1S44.491 FOR OVARIAN DISEASE. Of the seventy-four cases of the operation for the removal of ovarian tumours which l9 uui j,een published up to October, 1844, and have been collected by Jf.ai frf.son (a), i appears, according to his analysis, that “ in thirty-seven cases the tumour was • euioved, and the patients recovered. In twenty-four cases the operation was followed iy the death of the patient; of these twenty-four fatal cases, the tumour was removed u fourteen, could not be removed on account of adhesions in six, and was found to be ther than ovarian tumour in four cases. Thus again in seventy four cases in which the i peration for extraction of ovarian tumour has been undertaken, it has been completed a fifty-one instances, in fourteen, out of which fifty-one, it has been followed by death, nd in thirty-seven, by the successful removal of the tumour and the recovery of the ; atient; whilst out of the seventy four eases selected, it was found impossible to carry ut the intentions of the operator in twenty-three; or in other words the diagnosis was y ot sufficiently accurate to enable the Surgeon to foresee the impracticability of carrying i :■ ut his intentions. Of these twenty-three cases, thirteen recovered with life to remain y a statu quo; and ten died. The cause of failure was impossibility of removing the ji :amour on account of adhesions in fourteen cases. No tumour was found in three cases ; i nd the tumour proved to be other than ovarian in six instances, (p. 648.) Lee states to me “ the actual number of cases in which the peritonseal cavity has been 0 'erfonned is one hundred and eight {commencing with L’Aumoniee’s case.) Of these (- tventy-nine were operated upon by the large incision, twenty-three by the short, and in :9=ax cases the length of the incision is unknown. The mortality in these patients is as one ‘t eath to nearly three recoveries—namely, sixty-nine recovered and thirty-nine died. |j 'he operation was not completed in twenty-four out of the one hundred and eight cases, > ither on account of adhesions or no tumour being found. Of the eighty-jour cases | rhere the operation was performed with a fair chance of benefit, fifty-three recovered nd thirty-one died, making as 1 death to 2§f recoveries. Of the seventy-nine patients Operated on by the long incision forty five recovered and thirty four died, making the t; lortality as 1 death to 2JJ recoveries. Of the twenty-three operated on by the small 11 icision nineteen recovered and four died, or 1 death to 5| recoveries. From these 9 : wts we learn that this operation terminates frequently fatally ; that a correct diagnosis b jivery difficult, and in many instances defective; and that the short incision has been •vised more successfully than the large.” Much difference of opinion still exists as to the propriety of subjecting a female to - ich imminent danger, as, without doubt, she must incur, in undergoing the operation • f the removal of a diseased ovary. In addition to which, much has been said in refer- f >ace to the malignant character of the disease, which if it were really so, would justly Jr Jrbid it being meddled with. Southam says, that “ having carefully examined several *cimens of dropsical ovaria, he is inclined to believe that they never present a truly m-rhous character ; on the contrary, that they generally consist of simple cysts, or par- ■ >ke of what is called cystic sarcoma (b), for the development of which, the peculiar ructure of the ovary appears highly favourable.” (p. 238.) The proneness of both far,es to be diseased has also been brought as an objection to the operatiou. But foctham says:—“ I have carefully examined the records of twenty-nine cases of true f mpsical ovaria, and found that there were but two in which the opposite ovary pre- 1 xd a decidedly abnormal character. Where, however, the disease was malignant, i ■ olh were affected m three cases out of four.” (p. 240.) held by some’ that tbe Patient bas a chance of recovery, without the risk of m^atlon’ by the cyst bursting of itself, and the discharged fluid being absorbed I ’ £eneral cavlty of the peritonaeum. Such bursting of the dropsical ovary does w then occur, but favourable issue is very rare. One case of this kind, in which, •onr! a ra hu,rstlnPs’ and the woman recovered, is related by Bonfils (c). Another ft :opSy for twfnt y t0 CAri($' «van 0ld rman 0f ei6hty-five, who had had ovarian ' tended witT, lva,,ld a.ha, f‘ £he W8S the" attacked with severe pain in the swelling, , vere StS lassi.t»de> shivering, and slight fever; on the following day, she had I ud nuke mdi ^ y’ wlth nausea, vomiting, great restlessness, colic, quick small and pmse, and anxious countenance: ' ■ ‘ rr" ' - - - — red; instead of projectin had lost in prominence. le etelValterpd. C0,untenance as.in peritonitis. The shape of the belly was com- $ % whatit hml wfad °f P.r°Jectlng’ ^as flattened in the centre, but had gained in ll«l H n<l(l lost in nrnmin<irmo Tto flnnL,ntL,« aj i .1 , 1 1 'en so distinct r" T7~~T" * bc fluctuation from one side to the other had never I .d in less than J fit • 1 dayS after fh‘“ ,beSan to void large quantities of urine, ■ eaccumulation br, the existence of fluid in the belly was no longer apparent, umulation, however, came on, and the belly became larger than before ; but at the S-W) Hodokin • in Mp.i „(")Lond°n Med. Oazette.vol. XXXV. 1844. 1821.). ’ ' • Chir. I rans , vol. xv. (d) Gazotto Medicate, vol. xiii. p. 158. 1845, > i(0 Gazette Mtdicale, vol. xi. p. 74G. 1813. and Rankin's Half-yearly Abstract of the Medical Sciences, vol.ii. p. 151. 184(i.r 492 OPERATIONS FOR OVARIAN DISEASE. end of six months the cyst burst, and the water subsided as before. The belly agai. filled, and at the end of four months and a half the cyst burst the third time, with lei 1 severe symptoms, and the patient recovered. Dr. Locock informs me, that he has a : present under his care, with Sir Benjamin Brodie, a female about fifty years of agi i in whom the ovarian cyst has burst several times. About a year and a half ago, Ion g before any tumour was discovered, she had about once in six weeks an attack of violer r abdominal spasms, of the same nature as those which have since clearly been connects g with the bursting of the cyst. These attacks became gradually more frequent, latterl s once in three weeks. The first discovery of the tumour was about six or seven room! 4 ago, a globular elastic tumour of the size of an orange ; but previous to this being fe i above the pubes, a very distinct elastic tumour was perceived by examination by th ' vagina. Suddenly spasms came on as before, and the tumour was gone, which le A Locock to think it was not an ovarian cyst, as he had previously called it, but only | collection of flatus in the bowel, as great eructations and general abdominal distensio - 4 always followed the attacks. After several repetitions of the rise of the tumour gn. * dually, the spasms, and the dispersion, it was noticed that the tumour became large and larger each attack. Then Brodie detected, after the dispersion, slight fluctuatio il in the abdominal cavity, which soon disappeared. The next time it filled, being the ;fi the size of a shaddock, they punctured it with a very fine trocar and drew off a fe\ ounces of brown fluid, exactly the same as usually found in ovarian cysts. After this • firm pressure was tried, for a week or two, over the tumour, but she could not bear th » pain it produced. Since this, the same alternate filling, bursting, spasms, and dis a appearance have returned at still shorter intervals, and recently her health has begir ; to fail. The extreme rarity of these favourable results, however, can scarcely be allowe i as argument against the operation. Cabius, from the inquiries he was led to in reference to his own case, has obtaiae X some very interesting conclusions: first, that in the rather great number of cases whic died immediately, or within a few days after the first bursting, the cyst had, previous t. ri its rupture, contained a purulent fluid, more or less altered, and not the usual seroir a Second, that others, after one or more burstings, ascites remained, though it was nc ; proved that the ascites and the dropsy of the ovary had not existed at the same time 'i Third, that most of the patients, who survived one or two burstings, were cured only fo ij a time, and at last sank under the progressive effects of the encysted dropsy, (p. 158.) - tj AsTley Cooper mentions two instances in which the ovarian cyst was burst by acci n dent; in the one, the patient was thrown out of a one-horse chaise, and the dise3s- seemed to have been cured, but it returned seven years after, and she was obliged to b a tapped: the other patient fell out of bed on the corner of a chair, she afterwards passe* large quantities of urine, but the disease returned, (p. 375.) But besides the very rar cure of ovarian dropsy by bursting into the general cavity of the belly, the eJ’® “? 1 very rarely bursts into the fallopian tube, and the water is discharged through » I womb. Astley Cooper mentions a case of this kind ; and also another m which 11 burst into the intestinal canal; and though the patient was subject to occasional return*■ of the disease, she ultimately recovered, (p. 385.) Sciimucker (a) also says, that in ‘ case, after the sixteenth tapping, the ovary became suddenly' extremely painful PJ night, and was followed by the discharge of a large quantity of very stinking ic 1 matter through the womb, which continued for some days, and then ceased. (P- Ijj 4 j Astley Cooper relates a remarkable instance, in which the navel ulceratefli^ large quantities of water were discharged for a considerable time, but ultimately cww*j and the disease did not return, (p. 384.) Similar to this, though the opening cial, is the case of a female of forty-three years of age, who was tapped for 0 dropsy by my friend Sutton, of Greenwich, in 1821, and three or four times alter, i uropsy ny my menu ouiiuw, ui uRcumuj, in .oil,...... ....oo o. .0-. a,.ter eacli occasion some hair passed through the canula, and at the last operation, mL . mined to lengthen the cut downwards, so as to empty all the hair, which he milieu to lenguieu ukui uii»..».iuS,»a, .... ....... , A portion of bougie was kept in by his direction for some months, when tin u e ceased; but the lady fearing the fluid might re-collect, continued the bougie wound’till her death, of apoplexy, in 1841. nniuions 0 In concluding this important subject, it will not be improper to give tne r ^ two able practitioners against and in favour of this operation, about which tne so much difficulty in deciding. . . ... , , .f which I hart Ash well (b) observes:—“ If the operation is to become established, ot h3. the strongest doubt, it must be confined to examples of the malady where PI been already so often performed as to preclude, from the experience ot .1 Chirurg. Wahrnehm.. vol. ii. Practical Treatise on the Diseases peculiar to W omen R44. bvo.493 DROPSY OF THE WOMB. tiny idea that it can ever be dispensed with; and where we are confident that great suf- , iring must lead to early death. Perhaps this may be regarded as too limited a view of „ tie value of extirpation, but it is, I think, the correct one. In such cases, if the diay- qsis excludes the belief that there are serious adhesions, or malignant and solid growths jabmplicating the tumour, and, if the patient strongly desires it, the operation is defen- ! ble. In all other examples, it can only rest on the patient’s own views of her future - rospects, and on a calculation of chances. She might live many years, and without m inch suffering; she may die in a few years, after great suffering; she determines, lerefore, being courageous, and probably strongly urged by her Surgeon to run the |' sk of immediate death, for the hope of immediate and radical cure. Whether she has - me wisely to submit to such a hazard, a successful operation can scarcely prove; that S (he has happily secured her safety, through imminent peril, such an operation does -ove.” (p 64S.) f i On the other hand, Southam (a) says:—“ The operation is perfectly justifiable when vtie patient’s sufferings are such as to make her life a burden to her; when the symp- ins of structural lesion of any important organs are absent; and when the constitution suffering merely from functional derangement consequent upon pressure of the ■ - mour on the neighbouring parts. On the contrary, it ought not to be attempted when I e well-known characteristics of malignant action are present; when the tumour is •lid, uneven, and has been of rapid growth ; when the glands in the vicinity are en- ,rged, and hard knots can be felt in different parts of the abdomen, or when there is > stinct evidence of other organs being similarly implicated. Still less should it be un- •rtaken until the Surgeon, by varied and repeated examinations, is convinced of the •:c rastence of the disease. Nor must the rules, which direct us as to the propriety of . berating in other diseases, respecting the condition of the sexual organs, and the fitness the patient s constitution to undergo so severe an operation be overlooked.” (p. 241.) The number of times which a patient may bear tapping is almost incredible • three , : ur, and five times are by no means unfrequent. fj Schmucker (b) mentions a woman of forty-five, on whom he operated twentv-nine u-nes in four years ; Ford (c) forty-one times in four-and-a-half years ; Schmucker (d) another woman, sixty years old, fifty-two times in four years. Mead (e) sixtv-five •■nes m sixty-seven months ; Callisen (/) one hundred times ; in Dartford church- .rd lies the body of Ann Mumford, &c. Her death was occasioned by a dropsy for 4 pich, in the space of three years and ten months she was tapped one hundred and )-five tunes. She died 14th May, 1778, in the 23rd year of her age” (q) But ca?e exceeds all, a woman who, he says was tapped six hundred and iy ve times in the course of thirteen years. Whether these cases were ascites or SrH Wg,eiT ,S r0t mentired' The (iuantity of water ^awn off, varies of course ' rdfore t£ehS1ne ° aCCUmulatT; a,nd whet.her the taPPinS be repeated frequently, d tefore the belly has recovered its former size. In the second case, recited above <m Schmucker, the quantity had been reduced to five pints; and in the greater num- r of these operations, three or four quarts only was the quantity withdrawn Asti fv Jhe smallest quantity he had removed was eight quarts, and the largest «’s Muienm >’Dd‘f ^ °Vanan dl'°pS>'’ the C>'st of Wch is now in St. Tho- vss Museum. Stoerck took away twelve gallons and a half. “The nronm-tim, •*7 ge?’ “y*. Astley Cooper, “ from twenty-five to thirty-two pints ” Id*374 1 nnrl ;«upon the whole, I believe, a fair estimate.] 7 P ’ CP’ 3'4)) and I “°™8 a,S0 *• —“ «f«rence «*»•—> ■» »->»«. -UEHUS ; in Heidelberg. Annalen, vol. i. • Ievin ; in same. fi?ut ThS °Perated successful I y by the large incision on a large tumour which i K With the unr ’ C0atamlno nine and a half pints of purulent fluid, so cK con v.val £Jd notbe atIS “h,ft ft °f ft11™ a“d ‘be intestines, that fts re- Ihequently st muSit witbft ^ dl^harged the pus, he filled it with charpie, and !< 'w'0,Vf' citerl> vol. ii. p.202. CO Chirurg. Ilodiern, vol. ii. p 55. 4 leihcal Communicationsr'vol.ii o P’S >K n’li'°.0F]BR’S ctures, vol. ii. p. 374. I > w*>^vc ei,o<t, p. 187. ' ' W. do In boo. Med. d'Emulatlou, vol. ii. *t!) Medical Works, p. 394 1815. ’ ' "* (0 Caspar’s Woclienschrirt, vol. i. p.513. 1833.494 DROPSY OF THE WOMB; OPERATION. the discharge had nearly ceased, and she shortly after returned to her occupation , fc midwife.] 1924. If dropsy of the belly accompany pregnancy, either at the ons< or durino- the middle of its course, very considerable uneasiness is product- * by the great distension of the belly, by the great swelling of the lowe I limbs, and by the pressure which the bowels suffer; breathing is muc ? interfered with, and at last death-like agony, and danger of suffbcatio ) ensue. .£ 1925. If pregnancy be connected with acute ascites, the regular fori ■ of the fundus and body of the womb cannot be distinguished by the touch | specially on account of the enormous distension and projection of tl I hypochondria caused by the quantity of fluid driven up towards tl i diaphragm between the fundus and back of the womb, and the bowel <:> The urine is scanty, and the perspiration ceases. In examining the drops :t of the belly, a fluctuation of water is felt, indistinct in the hypogastric <4 and on the sides, but perceptible and distinct enough in the hypochondria decidedly so and vibrating in the left hypochondrion between the upp< and outer edge of the m. rectus abdominis, and the edge of the fab- ribs. 1926. This place appears to be most fitting for the performance < paracentesis, without running the danger of wounding the womb or tl intestines (a). It is less proper to make the puncture at the usual plac. whilst an assistant with both hands presses the womb towards the spin, thus forming a thick fold of skin, which is either perforated with tl trocar (6), or previously opened with a cut made through the wall of tit bC1927? A collection of Water in the cavity of the Womb (Hydroj Uteri, Hydrometra) may exist in that organ when it is either unimprey nated’or impregnated. In the former case it comes on with pamffe feelings about the pudenda, numbness of the feet, irregular menstruatic and whites, a cold swelling in the region of the womb, spreading ah. over the lower part of the belly, in which, on careful exaimnatioi a fluctuating movement can be perceived. The patient has a ieelin of cold over the whole extent of the womb, of its dropping to one sid- -i. i tp it Hi — ~ InrcrP. tn61 and when she lies down. If the swelling be in itself very large, ther ana wneu nes uuwu. ^ . p n n A‘i ' n 1: is pain, indigestion, qualmishness, vomiting, frequent flatulence, costiveness, difficulty in making water, retention of urine, at las wasting and hectic fever. Sometimes the water is discharge! } vagina from time to time, accompanied with agony and labour-like panui This discharge is not unfrequently periodical. The signs of distinction between this kind of dropsy and pregnancy are, tlie en'^ ment of the tumour without regularity; its cold, fluctuating feel; ttejmouui o . womb is thin, tense, and contracted, and does not rise after the th*rd nioantn, occurrence in girls not arrived at puberty, or in old^ women> ^ throughcuU the. ^ • •ivea at punerty, or m om « uuicu, « uw im HfeTav'e been°unfruitful; the breasts ire generally withered and au(lib red. The absence of the child s motions and of tn the contrary is also observed, i ne aoseuee ui me —“ TT ~~ lliau ni I beating of the heart; and, in some cases, the existence of the disease for more j months confirms the diagnosis. 1928. In dropsy of the pregnant womb, which may be accompanitj („) Scarpa, Mcmoria sulla gravidanza susse- (10 Viksskvx,,On' ■ ,i!a; da Ascite, ed oascryazioni pratiche su i in London Medical and 1 lijsicai J avarUatari deUa'nuova maniera d’usare la para- centesi dell’addomine in simili casi. Treviso, IS17. 8vo 'u’j Bonn, Ueber die Mamvcrhaltnng, p-TYMPANITIS. 495 £ lith ascites, the belly soon acquires as regular distension as at the end of H ,Teo-nancy, on striking the belly nothing more is felt than a slight, deep, : all fluctuation ; the quick distension of the womb, the bowels violently lirust up against the diaphragm, in consequence of which there is diffi- ic tulty of breathing, and even danger of suffocation ; the feet generally well. A considerable quantity of water is not unfrequently passed, from o ime to time, often periodically by the vagina, with symptoms of threat- ning abortion. The birth, however, usually occurs at the due time, and t fter the discharge of the proper waters. The seat of this dropsical ■iccumulation is either between the womb and the foetal membranes, is etween the chorion and amnion, often probably in a proper sac; or « iere may be a very considerable collection of the liquor amnii. The V lacenta also may be affected with hydatids during pregnancy. An biydatidous degeneration of the ovum may even produce an accumulation | f water in the womb, and render the diagnosis extremely difficult (a). / : 1929. The causes of dropsy of the unimpregnated womb are, closing of s le mouth of the womb by spasm, its stopping up or growing together, and if>. diseased condition of the secretion of its inner surface. The removal of U: ie water is effected either by the use of the remedies specially employed | )r dropsy, which act upon the kidnies, the alimentary canal, and the Kpsorbing vessels; or if the mouth of the womb be closed, by warm 2i r steam baths, softening injections, or by the introduction of a female | hheter into the mouth of the womb when it is stopped up with plugs ■!' : lymph, and the like. If there be adhesion of the mouth of the womb, 0 ie above-mentioned remedies are useless; if the symptoms be severe, as 1:. hen dropsy of the womb accompanies pregnancy, danger of suffocation, arid the like, paracentesis uteri is required. 1930. This operation, when the mouth of the womb is closed, is -c erformed as already described, {par. 1823,) or between the navel and the ibes, the bladder having been previously emptied and a belly-band •plied ; or above the vaginal portion of the womb, in the fluctuating part the tumour, with a trocar (5). j J931. In distension of the alimentary canal with air, ( Tympanitis,') the h jeration of paracentesis has been proposed by some Surgeons, if the ■ment be idiopathic and not a symptom of any other disease, if it have Busted three or four days, have withstood all remedies, and the patient be pceedingly restless and distressed ; the pulse strong and quick, not small 1 d soft; and there be general heat over the whole body unaccompanied i coldness of the limbs. Other practitioners have decidedly opposed |ch treatment. J l In Pe.r[<>™ing the operation a long thin trocar with a canula perforated ■ the sides, is thrust into the middle of a line drawn on the left side from nth?/rd of sec0nd uPPer false rib t0 the front iliac spine, to the pth ot four or five inches, which directly opens the colon descendens. r.tain??r iuwl1thdrawn> wllilst the canula is held in, and the air eadv di? t ? b°-n eSCapes’ after which the tube is to be removed as nlAuh |ted'i l l.ePaUent should take but the smallest quantity of lice of?! ,? 7 a llUle 1Ced almond milk> and his thirst quenched with ot Seville orange, sugared, and kept in his mouth, or with a cool ’Anatorni« n.nTT clted.-CRuvEr.n.Kn, Kgaale. , ly,,!"10 en general, vol. i. p.2.-<0. S**0*1-".) niasert. ) rorriiuja Uteri gravldi. Heidelb., 1821. (6") Si-arpa, above cited. — Devilliehs ; in Journal de Medecine, par Sedim.ot, vol. xliii. loi2(HYDROCELE. 496 rather than a lukewarm bath. If there be no subsequent discharge fr ^ the bowel, purgative, and afterwards nourishing clysters may be give $ and to relieve the loss of tone which the intestine for some time suffi- * cold applications and swallowing small pieces of ice may be ordered (a > IX.—OP HYDROCELE. (Hydrocele, Lat.; Wasserbruch, Germ.; Hydrocele, Fr.) Heister., L., De Hydrocele. Helmst., 1744; in Halleri Diss. Chir., vol. ' No. 76. Douglas, John, A Treatise on the Hydrocele. London, 1755. Else, Joseph, An Essay on the Cure of the Hydrocele of the Tunica Vaginalis Tet i London, 1776. 8vo. Third Edition. Bonhofer, De Hydrocele. Argent., 1777. Warner, Joseph, An Account of the Testicles, their Coverings and Diseases. 1 don, 1779. 8vo. Second Edition. Dease William, Observations on the Hydrocele. Dublin, 1782. Pott, Percival, A Treatise on the Hydrocele, or Watery Rupture, &c.; in his 0 rurgical Works, vol. ii. p. 191. Edition 1783. Murray, A., In Hydroceles curationem Meletemata. Upsalie, 1785. Delonnes, Imb., Traite de l’Hydrocele; cure radicale de cette maladie, &c. Pa 1785. 8vo. Dossaussoy, And. Cl., Cure Radicale de l’Hydrocele par le caustique. Paris, 1711 8vo. Keate, Thomas, Cases of Hydrocele; with observations on a peculiar methoc treating that disease, &c. Loudon, 1788. 8vo. Bell, Benj., A Treatise on the Hydrocele, &c. Edinburgh, 1794. 8vo. Earle, Sir James, A Treatise on Hydrocele, &c. London, 1796. Second Edithd Farre, J. R., M.D., Cases of Hydrocele; in Medical Records and Researches, p. 1 London, 1798. J Cooper, Sir Astley, Observations on the Structure and Diseases of the Te&l London, 1830. 4to. Benedict, Bemerkungen iiber Hydrocele, &c. Leipzig, 1831. Brodie, Benj., Clinical Remarks on Hydrocele; in London Medical Gazette, vol.W p. 89, 136. 1834. I Dupuytren, Le Baron, De l’Hydrocele et de ses principales variete's; in his Lepfl Orales, vol. iv. p. 433, Art. 4. Paris, 1834. 8vo. Curling, T. B„ A Practical Treatise on the Diseases of the Testis, &c., P- London, 1843. 8vo. _ j Bertrandi, Mernoire sur 1’Hydrocele; in Me'm. de l’Acad. de Chirurgie, vo. 4 p. 84. . Sabatier, Recherches historiques sur la Cure radicale de 1‘Hydrocele; m l’Acad. de Chir., vol. v. p. 670. Lodeii, Ueber den Wasserbruch ; in Med.-Cliir. Bemerk., vol i. cli. vii. Helen’s Neue Bemerkungen und Erfahrungen, vols. ii. and iii. Richter, Vom Wasserbruclie ; in Med. und Chirurg. Bemerk., vol. i. ch. vn. 1 Larrey, Mernoire sur l’llydrocele; in Mem. de Chirurg. Milit., vol. iii- P- Paris. 8vo. Blandein, Art., Hydrocele; in Dict.de Medecineet Chirurgie Pratiques, vol. X. P® 1823.—Zano, Operationen, vol. >»• PP* * ! (a) Combai.usikh, F. P., Pneumotopathologie. ^le. 182v Paris 1747.—Dk Mabchi ; in Bhereii, Giornale, 291,317. ’ r.fvnAT : in Nouvelle Bibliotheque Medi- Lkvhat ; in Nouvelle Bibliothequi497 DIAGNOSIS. 1932. Hydrocele is a collection of watery fluids in the tunics of the Kcrotum, or of those of the testicle ; it therefore varies according' as the i rater is collected in the cellular tissue of the scrotum, in the vaginal o unic of the testicle, or in that of the spermatic cord. The latter two ,< re, however, in general alone considered as hydrocele, and the former as .S' edema. fl933. The collection of water in the cellular tissue of the scrotum onus a soft swelling, which retains the impress of the finger, and when it a nlarges, becomes tense and firm, unfolds the wrinkles of the scrotum, >; preads on to the penis and covers it, and by the swelling of the prepuce, r lie discharge of the urine is often prevented. Inflammation, suppuration, to: nd mortification may result from this swelling. 1934. This disease is either symptomatic and connected with general v ropsy and the like, or arises from pressure on the lymphatic vessels by an ij 11-fitting truss, or from accidental tearing of a hydrocele of the vaginal > unic, and in children from pressure during the birth, and irritation of the w crotum by the urine. The cure depends on the removal of these causes 3/ nd the use of means specially fitted to cedema. 1935. The collection of water in the vaginal tunic of the testicle, True ® hydrocele (Hydrocele tunicce vaginalis testis) is always produced slowly, P s a swelling rising gradually from the bottom of the scrotum towards the si bdominal ring, at first sometimes accompanied with painful distension, 1 ut at other times without any peculiar sensation. The swelling has h: enerally an oval form (1), is elastic, tense, sometimes distinctly fluc- uating, and the appearance of the skin over it is unaltered; in coni- n’ arison with its size it is light; it increases neither on coughing nor on ny exertion, and cannot be returned into the belly. The testicle is felt, > hen the swelling is large, generally on its upper and hind part as a hard art (2) j its position, however, may vary. The spermatic cord is felt above 9 ieswelling, if it extend not to the abdominal ring. If in the dark a light be laced behind the swelling, it is found to be transparent, if the fluid con- fined within it be clear, and the vaginal tunic be not thickened. Some- 7 raes when the distension is very great, the vaginal tunic and the cellular i ssue upon it and the m. cremaster are thickened, the swelling feels arder, is not transparent, and no fluctuation is felt; the vaginal tunic ■hay be even bony. In long-continued hydrocele the spermatic cord n id the testicle are varicose, the testicle sometimes wasted. From pres- | ire °.n the swelling, as in old bulky ruptures, the vessels of the cord are s >metimes separated, and thrust either aside or in front of the swelling, the swelling be very large, the veins of the scrotum swell, the skin names and sometimes ulcerates. ' wino.The ,ge?eral for™ of a hydrocele is pear-shaped, largest at bottom, and nar- 1'ic ef in u! ar ^,l!PWards; but vury oftun U is more °val, and sometimes even cou- ' >wever aS \° as?ume an hour-glass appearance. Care must be taken, I 'drl ’p f ?ln th,at th“ hour-glass form is not caused by the existence of two c . OoTnnH r ab°VG ‘ n 0ther’ of whlch Astlky Cooper mentions one instance, fe e lower lrtDIsE-a T ■ m0r,e rcmarkal,le one>in which “ he drew off the water from - ar ^ ^ up,per part The Patient came to him a 1 served thatSp^l v h®/ILv laVC the Water drawa otf again. Brodie 7 ' iter from ybt.“ntrachon of the hour-glass was narrower, and, on drawing off the [ luently forced m l Par’ f°^nd ‘ the ,uPPer one was not emptied, and was con- BginaUv a nnrti-.i Puacture that afterwards, so that it was evident what had been .91.) P contraction, in the course of a year had become a complete one.’' 2 K498 HYDROCELE; (2) Astley Cooper says“ The testis is generally placed two thirds of the swelli i <6 downwards and at the posterior part of the scrotum; pressure at that part gives t A sensation of squeezing the testis.” (p. 87.) I think, however, from my own observatit M that the testicle is generally situated still nearer the bottom of the swelling than stat ■' c even by Cooper. The quantity of water in a hydrocele varies from twelve to sixteen ounces, bu • jji have occasionally drawn off between twenty and thirty. The largest quantity on reec > i is, I believe, that of the celebrated Gibbon the historian, from whom the elder Cu. > drew off six quarts ; and Brodie says that he has “ seen a hydrocele hanging down the patient’s knees.” (p. 89.) The serum of a hydrocele is generally straw-coloured and transparent, but son } times so dark that the light of a caudle held behind a swelling cannot be perceivt -ft I have recently had a case of this kind, in which the serum was dark greenish-broM and could not be seen through, though transparent, on account of its colour; t 1 vaginal tunic itself was thickened, the hydrocele being very large and of long standirCS Transparency, as a diagnostic mark, must therefore be received with some caution. j Astley Cooper also mentions, that the serum “ sometimes contains a quantity i white flaky matter, produced by chronic inflammation,” and “ when produced uud acute inflammation, the fluid is sometimes of a red colour, from a mixture of red par. cles of the blood.” He has also seen “ in the fluid of hydrocele, loose bodies, of whit ' there is a specimen in the Museum at St. Thomas’s.” (p. 92.) ] 1936. Hydrocele of the vaginal tunic of the testicle is distinguish t. from scrotal rupture by the way in which it begins, and by the swellin i enlarging neither by cough nor exertion, and from hardening of the testicb ! by its elastic, uniform, painless fluctuating character, whilst the hardened testicle is hard, irregular, and painful. Hardening, swelling, and hydrdfl cele of the testicle may exist at the same time (Hydrosarcocele.) Hydro / cele has many resemblances to medullary fungus of the testicle, and some > times the fluctuation at different parts may at first render the diagnosm difficult. The transparency of the hydrocele, when a light is held behin; j it in the dark, is in all cases to be considered as its most certain character ^ J [Hydrocele may be accompanied with either scrotal rupture or diseased testicle. TfcM rupture-sac may descend as low as the hydrocele and no further, which is common] < the case when the two diseases exist together; but it may also descend behind th * hydrocele, and the existence of the latter may not be noticed till strangulation of th rupture taking place, it is discovered during the operation. Cases of this kind have bee ! already mentioned in speaking of the varieties of strangulated rupture, (par. 1199, note. The diseased condition of the testicle itself is usually without difficulty made out ' though imperfectly, before the operation for tapping the hydrocele is performed; bu its nature cannot be easily discovered, and therefore the Surgeon must be guided b; j circumstances in regard to the steps he must take with it.—J. F. S.] 1937. The causes of hydrocele are in most instances unknown ; it arise * of its own accord in healthy subjects, and is especially frequent in childrci 1 and old persons. Its cause often seems to be a slow inflammation of the t vaginal tunic; frequently it occurs after bruises of the testicle in riding i and the like ; sometimes from cold ; after inflammation or other affection! t] of the urethra; from wearing ill-fitting trusses, and from syphilis. According to Rochoux (a), the swelling of the scrotum, consequent on a clap, does j not, as generally supposed, depend on inflammation of the testicle, but on a bydrexw 1 arising from inflammation of the vaginal tunic (a vaginalittf, as he calls it.) grounds of this opinion are, that the testicle, surrounded by a firm, thick, fibrous mem- t brane, cannot swell up to such a degree in a few days, and sometimes even in a tv* hours, to double its natural size, and even more; that such swelling of the testicle rarejv goes on to suppuration, whilst inflammation of that organ from other causes, commonlv 1 has that result; that at the onset there is always tluctutatiou with this swelling, an j that, in some cases, fluctuation is perceptible on examination. Gacsseil (b) holds tua • (а) Archives ^encralcs de Modecine, vol. ii. p. 51. 1833. (б) Archives generates de Mcdecine, vol. xxvil. p. 188.499 PROGNOSIS; SPONTANEOUS CURE. i turbid, thick, somewhat sanguinolent fluid, corresponding to the size of the swelling, S' nd a thick glutinous matter are found. And liocaoux (a) has shown from the ex- ); uiiuation of six bodies that it depends almost exclusively on fluid in the vaginal tunic. [e believes, that if, in the after-course of the disease, fluctuation he no longer percep- ) ble, it depends on the sensitiveness of the part, which will not bear a close examination ■ ad that, when dispersion begins by the absorption of the thin fluid, the swelling takes u the same character as if depending on swelling of a solid organ. t Velpeau (6) considers that there may be an outpouring into the vaginal tunic, but rnt this is slight, and does not constitute the disease, that the pain of an inflamed tes- i ele is greater than when depending merely on fluid, that no transparency can be ob- i, >rved, and that the examination of the swelling with the fingers shows the epididymis gj irticipating in the disease. Blandin (c) holds that the state of the parts differs A ccording to the period at which they are examined; that at first the inflammation B.escends from the vasa deferentia to the epididymes and the testicles, and a swelling of PS lese arises, but that afterwards, and when the dispersion begins, the effusion is a prin- Ipal symptom of the disease. Pigne (d) remarks, in opposition to these statements, that i young persons affected with this disease, whose hydroceles have been operated on ith setons, in spite of the escape of fluid from both openings, a hard, irregular, pain- d tumour, of the size of a turkey’s egg, is produced, which can only depend on swelling the testicle. To this I would add, that after the operation by incision, the hydro- ■le, sometimes from the swelling of the testicle itself, most decidedly acquires the ze of the swelling previous to the operation. i 1938. The prognosis of hydrocele is favourable, and proper treatment t > Sects a cure, if it be simple and without complication ; but if there be a in ardened testicle, the cure is only possible when the testicle can be brought v ack to its natural condition, or is removed. If the hydrocele be left to i self, nature alone cannot effect the cure, which however is not infrequent bl l children. 1939. The cure of hydrocele is palliative or radical. The former con- t -sts in drawing off the water by a puncture with a trocar or lancet; it is squired in all those cases, where the radical cure is not proper, in very old ersons, when there is also hardening of the testicle, and when the patient C» ill not submit to its extirpation ; if there be intestinal rupture, connected L ith the hydrocele-sac, or with the testicle, in very large collections of ater, and in those cases where the condition of the testicle cannot be i -eviously ascertained. The trocar is, in general, to be preferred to the , ncet, for emptying the hydrocele, because the fluid will pass by the • inula, and not escape into the cellular tissue of the scrotum. The lancet > ay be used when there is but little water, and accompanying intestinal n-ipture, or hardening of the testicle, because with it all possible injury * ay be easily avoided. J [Spontaneous cure of hydrocele sometimes, though very rarely, takes place. Brodie • •> ™ u-CaSe °f tllIS klnl*’ in w 1,1 ch the patient not liking to submit to the operation, ' dcmI v Jffe w so large that he was obliged to resort to the “ old clerical cassock to uanrnty. When, however, he had had the disease for some years, the I )uhl«l isappear, and ultimately went away entirely, so that he was never Paeons,aherwards.” (p 90.) Astley Cooper mentions another mode ofspon- 4 ^ rean hydrocele be suffered to remain and become of large size; if the I fmnalis amt ^ nec?ssity of labour to obtain subsistence, inflammation of the tunica I iica ta'T„r ‘m W,lH aP8e f™m excessive distension. A slough of the scrotum and I mmation c!,^ ls,prodllce^> ,and as.it separates, the water escapes; a suppurative in- . n. r \ succeeds, granulations arise, and the patient in this way receives his cure.” ft iond ctsi. se®ras t0 lne that this is precisely what would have happened in the I 3Pin„ fu! speotimeous cure related by Brodie ; had he not checked the mischief by i t a turhirt k^lrocele’ and drawing off “ some ounces of fluid not like that of hydrocele, Be sometimes ,um’ s.uch as y°u fil‘d effused from inflammation.” (p. 90.) Hydroceles * A b 8t by a bl°W’ but’ accordil>g to both Cooper and Brodie, the disease yl V Atxivc cited^CC ’ ^®ancc Sept- 2/, 1896. (c) Gazette Mnilicale, vol. iv. p. 038. 1836. (tf) French Translation of this Work. 2 K 2500 HYDROCELE;TREATMENT is not thereby cured, but after a time reappears, the rent in the tunic having probat i 4| healed up.] 1940. The situation of the testicle must be ascertained before puna t turing the hydrocele : it usually lies at the upper and hinder part of t ] swelling, and the best place for the puncture is the fore and under pa:- ■> The testicle, however, may be situated elsewhere, it may be connect with the front of the vaginal tunic, in which case, a puncture at anoth a part is most proper. The puncture is always to be made in the midc ii line of the swelling, because, in old hydroceles especially, the several vessi- t of the cord are often driven out of their place. According to Richter (c % the swelling is sometimes oblique, or even completely transverse, j that in hydrocele of the left side, the puncture must be made on t . i right side of the scrotum. In large hydroceles, a narrower part of t :< swelling sometimes extends upwards, even as high as the abdominal rin 1 Under these circumstances, a part of the canalis tutiiccB vaginalis is di ;4 tended, and by the puncture of the larger swelling, the water escapes fro this diverticulum. In children, in whom the puncture is rarely necessaraj the testicle generally is lower than in adults, the puncture must therefoia be made rather higher than usual. The enlarged blood-vessels of tlij scrotum must be avoided in making the puncture. 1941. The patient must be placed on a seat, so that the scrotum mt1 hang down loose. The Surgeon grasps the swelling at its hind part, anl tightens the skin, whilst an assistant places his hand at the upper part n the swelling, and presses the water down. The operator holds a tk: trocar in his right hand, and puts the forefinger of the same hand on i i canula, to within half or three-quarters of an inch from its point, and the thrusts the trocar in rather obliquely upwards at the place determine ;. When it is ascertained, by the resistance ceasing, that the trocar has pen- trated the cavity, the point of the trocar is to be withdrawn, and tl : canula thrust in deeper into the vaginal tunic. The trocar having bet -• withdrawn, the canula is to be held steadily, so that it do not escape fro. ; the vaginal tunic whilst the water passes off. If there be a large collet > tion of fluid, its flow must be often checked by placing the finger on tl i aperture of the canula, so that the testicle should not be too quickly ri i lieved from pressure. When the emptying is completed, the canula is t- 1 be gently withdrawn, whilst the edges of the wound are held togetht j with the finger and thumb of the other hand; and afterwards is to tl closed with sticking plaster, and the parts supported in a bag truss. The elder Travers (h) has endeavoured to effect the radical cure of hydrocele wit * simple punctures. The scrotum is made tense with one hand, the patient being s * placed that the light may pass through the swelling, to avoid the veins, or an :< thickened and adhering part. The punctures are to be made with an acupunctut i needle, or what is still better, with a fine trocar, at equal distances, very' quicKl 1 after each other, so that the tension of the scrotum may be kept up. The pnnflF J point in the operation Travers holds to be the trifling discharge of fluid, and lb I escape of the remainder into the m. cremaster and cellular tissue. On the third, cj even on the second day sometimes, the fluid is absorbed, and only when, on account c i the smallness of the punctures, but a few drops escape, is the cure delayed beyond j month, or even it does not succeed; but in a large number, the cure is effected. 1 Lewis (c) considers a single puncture more efficacious and less dangerous. I n» I never witnessed a cure by these means in very many cases. , «• 1 [I have employed this treatment several times, and like Chelics, have not foun j ra-\ Anfanraeriinde der Wundarzncik., vol. vl. (6) London Medical Gazette, vobxi** P- Eg. (c) Lancet, 1S35-36, vol. ii. P- 206.501 BY PUNCTURE. . successful. The rapidity with which the absorption of the water emptied into the cellular tissue of the scrotum generally takes place is very remarkable; but the punctures in the vaginal tunic soon heal, and the water quickly re-collects, under which circumstances, I have several times had occasion to perform the cure by i injection. The danger from this treatment, which Lewis dreads, seems to me quite chimerical.—J. F. S.] 1942. If a lancet be used, it must, after the scrotum has been made rense, as already directed, be introduced with its edges above and ielo\v, at the appointed place, and the opening enlarged as it is withdrawn. Whilst the water flows, the skin must be kept sufficiently ight, so that the membranes shall not fall together, and prevent its escape; but if this happen, a probe must be passed in, and the flow ■estored. If the hydrocele be accompanied with intestinal rupture, it s most advisable to make a cut an inch long at the bottom of the swelling, to lift up the vaginal tunic with the forceps, and divide it vith a bistoury held flat. 1943. If after the puncture the fluid will not pass out, on account >f its consistence, or because it is contained in various chambers, either he radical cure by incision must be at once performed or the opening dosed with sticking plaster, and the radical cure afterwards undertaken. I have always found the fluid thin, and not contained in different sacs, when the esticle has not been otherwise diseased. But I have not unfrequently found, on the ^ niter surface of the vaginal tunic, a pretty considerable quantity of consistent, gela- !1D0US fluid* collected in the cellular tissue; whilst the fluid in the tunic was of its usual character. Sometimes bodies of various size, externally cartilaginous, but >ony within, are found swimming in the fluid. They arise, as I have often noticed P,“e operation for hydrocele and in dead bodies, from the surface of the testicle •nil epididymis, overspread the vaginal tunic, are always strung together at their ilace of attachment, and at last get loose; or are enclosed in a cyst between the /aginal tunic, and the tunica albuginea, from which, when it is opened, these little ■odies escape. I ?^be. Punc^ure generally soon closes; if inflammation occur, J :oJd applications and leeches are requisite ; and if it cause effusion into I e celluiar tissue of the scrotum, a cut must be made into it. If sup- •n mration occur, it must also be quickly opened. “ »e emptying of the hydrocele most commonly effects only transient • elief, and the fluid re-collects more or less quickly. In rare cases is it | • °Wfd by a racJlcaI cure. If the swelling speedily acquire considerable after the discharge, blood has been poured out into the vaginal ■ . ™C’;?1(:h ,must be cut into; and if the spermatic artery be wounded, < - must be tied. ’ |afe&PwtUring a by,d-r°,<rc!c but raruly cnrcs the disease; “but to give the 1 otion fn v -eSt pF.0SP^ct I** Astley Cooper recommends “a strong stimulating m fllamniation^’Tmnniy applled” And ,he c°ntmues “ Exercise sometimes produces 4 -avellw SV n!!Sj 1DSiancet? a Pers,on w'° ’«l a cure after the inflammation set up by t >• 98 this hSL/ 6 ,y1r0CC e havln6 been tapped the previous morning | ) try a -UCky ^anC6’ and Sh0uld 110t ^duce another person a entbin ii fk| for, m another case, he relates directly after, an elderly | animation nX btT“JapP,ed for hydrocele, died, in consequence of the m- I In old ", e - mCr y by- a l0"g walk 0,1 tbe same evening, (p.99.) » »be performed0-' the'ntb taPPlng iS °nly °Peration for hydrocele which ought * ^y ensue Tnd bei.^ f" Very dangerous- 011 acc°™t of the inflammation which »ue, and being without power, may run on to gangrene.—J. F. S.] ther rac!1ca^ cure of hydrocele may be managed in two ways ; iy increasing the activity of the absorbents, by diminishing theHYDROCELE; TREATMENT RY INCISION; 502 exhalation, and producing contraction of the vaginal tunic, whilst : | cavity is preserved, or by exciting such a degree of inflammation as w Jj produce a growing together of the vaginal tunic with the testicle. 1946. The first hind of radical cure may be effected by the use 1 solutions of hydrochlorate of ammonia dissolved in vinegar and spirits -.1 wine, by fumigation with cinnabar, with sugar, with vinegar, by emeti fi and purgatives, and by repeated blisters and the like applied to tifl swelling. In adults these remedies are seldom of use, but in childm they almost always disperse the hydrocele. Perhaps in grown perso-. they would be more effectual, if the water had been first drawn o Kinder Wood (a) found that when the swelling had been open* with a broad lancet, and the water discharged, if a little piece of tl vaginal tunic were drawn out with a hook, and cut off with scissors, ai simply dressed, only a slight degree of inflammation ensued, whit restored the exhalents and absorbents to their natural condition and cause a cure without the vaginal tunic growing to the testicle. When tli: tunic is thickened, such treatment is inapplicable. 1947. The second kind of radical cure of hydrocele is effected, fir ; by incision ; second, by injection ; third, by seton ; fourth, by caustic fifth, by the tent; and sixth, by cutting away the vaginal tunic. 1948. In the operation by incision, the patient is placed upon a fir table ; an assistant grasps the back of the swelling, and tightens the ski- The operator cuts freely through the skin, or through a fold of it, in tl mesial line, and to the extent of two-thirds of the swelling (1); if tl scrotal artery bleed, it must be tied. The operator then placing the for finger of his left hand on the middle of the swelling, thrusts a bistoui with its back upon the volar surface, into the vaginal tunic, and earria the fino-er in with it, so that when the knife is withdrawn, the finger ma completely fill up the hole. The blunt-ended blade of a pair of scissors - now passed on the finger, and the opening in the tunic enlarged upwarc and downwards, care being taken that the testicle do not protrude, and it should, it must be gently returned. An assistant, with his finge* crooked, seizes the tunic at each angle of the wound, and lifts it up, so thfi its inner surface is laid open. A thin fold of linen dipped in fresh oil then laid in the cavity of the tunic between it and the testicle, so that n edge projects in a ring around the cut. The cavity thus formed by linen is to be filled with lint dipped in oil, and the edges of the woun having been brought together with sticking plaster, the whole is coverei with a compress, and put into a suspendor. (1) To render the cure satisfactory and perhaps, indeed, that it niay bei most con plete, the cut should not exceed a third, or at the most, half the length of the swem I as is proved by Ficicer’s (b) and Schrkger’s (c) practice, as well as by my own. 1949. The after-treatment is to be guided by the degree of the ensuin; inflammation. ' If not very severe, it must be borne; but in the othe case, it must be allayed by taking out some of the lint, by warm point' and antiphlogistic remedies. On the third or fourth day, the dressings ana anupiuuyiouc iou.cuic-. ...v, ^ ---- cndde to be changed, but the linen is not to be removed till it is quite souu The space between the testicle and vaginal tunic is to with pus. constantly filled with lint, and as it. diminishes less lint should be mtroau When the suppuration takes place, collection and burrowing of thejJ (a) Medic.-Chir. Trans, vol. ix. p. 38. 1818. (ft) Anfsiitze und Beobachtimgen, (r) Ohirurgische Vcrauche, vol. i. p. 125. vol. *• P-244'BY INJECTION. 503 laiust be prevented. After-bleeding requires that the vessels should be tied, ar cold water applied. 1950. If in the operation by incision, the testicle be found hardened, its extirpation must be at once performed. Hydatids on the surface of the • esticle, or in the cellular tissue of the scrotum, must be seized with forceps, tnd cut off with Cooper’s scissors. 1951. In the operation by injection, the puncture must be first made Jvith the trocar, as already directed, and the testicle examined, to ascertain f it be hardened. One part of red wine diluted with two of water, and noderately warmed, is now to be injected through the canula of the trocar nto the vaginal tunic with a syringe, fitting into the canula, till the tunic »e completely or almost distended to its previous size. The fluid is generally kept in about five minutes with the finger upon the opening of jhe canula. The sensitiveness of the patient is to determine the strength if the injection and the length of time it should be retained in the tunic. In irritable persons, or if pain arise after the injection, it must be kept in nil half the time. In not sensitive persons, when the hydrocele is old nd the tunic thickened, pure wine must sometimes be injected, retained tor a longer time, and several times repeated, to produce a sufficient degree rf inflammation. In repeating the injection, it must be carefully observed hat the canula has not escaped from the tunic. If bv moving tlm miter i l I ■ "U p. 132. Niirnberg, 1811.504 HYDROCELE; ounce of water; the patient suffers little by this plan, and next day can stand withoii i- pain, and go about. Velpeau’s successful treatment has been confirmed by othen 1 In eleven hundred and forty-eight cases (a) treated with iodine injections, only thre 1 cases failed. In ten, injections with port wine failed. Injections of iodine succeeded ii | nine cases where previous use of port wine and sulphate of zinc had failed (4). [The injection of tincture of iodine diluted with water, I am convinced, b' | repeatedly practising it for some years, is the most effectual and least painful i the patient. Velpeau has the credit of introducing the practice, but I am informs j by medical friends who have been in India, it has long been practised there, and, if np ; recollection be not treacherous, without drawing the injection off again. An« this mode I have adopted, making use of a very fine trocar and canula, drawing ol the water, and injecting an ounce of fluid Containing two drams of tincture o iodine and six drams of water, and then immediately withdrawing the canula, t< I which the wound always clings very tightly, as the solution is very astringent. Tin patient most commonly suffers no pain, or at least a very trifling degree; and though on the following day the scrotum is a little reddened and rather firm, yet the patient ir not thereby prevented moving about with ease and comfort to himself. Indeed, I an informed that as soon as the injection is made the person walks away, and requires m further attention. The scrotum, according to my own observation, increases a little, auc. becomes rather more solid for three or four days, and then begins to subside, and in the course of a fortnight the cure is completed without confining the patient more than twe or three days, rather as precautionary, than that I believe it really necessary. I have employed this treatment in both large and small hydroceles, merely injecting the j quantity mentioned or a little less; and never either shaking the scrotum about or dis-: tending the cyst by repeated injections, and afterwards drawing it off, as Velpeau practises and recommends, I am quite sure that whoever once employs the iodine injection as I have mentioned, will not treat a hydrocele for the radical cure by any other means, Hydrocele is sometimes not even at first cured by injection; and this Astlev Cooper seems to think depends on the after-treatment; “ for,” he says, “ I sometimes- fail, and should very often but for great care in the after-treatment, upon which, I think, much depends. I sometimes, when water is reproduced a few days after the operation, tap it to remove the serum, and to produce, by this operation, a larger share j of inflammation.” (p. 106.) But occasionally the injection cures for a time, and then the disease reappears. i Brodie mentions two remarkable instances of this kind, one of which occurred l to a patient of Everard Home’s, in which the disease recurred after seventeen years; and another, which happened under his own care, in which the disease returned after twenty years, the operation by injection having been performed in both cases by Home. > Sometimes the inflammation set up by injection is so great as to terminate in suppu- ration ; when this happens, and the existence of pus is decidedly shown, a free cut into the vaginal tunic should be made, so that the pus may readily flow out; after which all the symptoms of constitutional excitement soon cease. If by accident the injection should be thrown into the cellular tissue of the scrotum instead of into the cavity of '■ the hydrocele, no time must be lost, but a free cut made through the skin, so that it may readily escape from the loose cellular tissue, otherwise there will be sloughing, and it may be the patient will lose his life, which has happened.—J. F. S.] 1954. For the introduction of a seton, after the puncture as already<*| directed lias been made with the trocar and canula, and the former with- < drawn, a long tube is passed deeply through the canula, till it reach j the fore and upper part of the scrotum. A long and pointed straight j sound, with an eye at its other end armed with several threads, is then j thrust through the tube outwards, carrying with it the threads, and then ( the canula is withdrawn. The ends of the setOn-threads are tied loosely together, the wounds covered with sticking plaster, and a bag truss pat I on. About the tenth or fourteenth day, some of the threads are w ithdraw a at each dressing, and this is continued till all be taken out. J. Holbrook (c) lets the water escape as usual, then takes up a fold of the skin Fkorikp’b N. Notizcn, vol. viii. 1836, (6) Oppenhf.im; in Hamburg. Zeitschr., vol. I Nov. viii. pi. iv. 1828.—Frick*; in same. (c) Observations on Hydrocele, etc. 1-ondon, 1825.TREATMENT BY SETON. 505 01 the scrotum and of the vaginal tunic, and passes with a common needle a single or double thread from above downwards, which he removes on the third day. Onsenoort (a), with a needle curved and having a handle, passes a ligature through the middle third of the swelling from above downwards, or from below upwards. After the fluid has completely escaped, the thread is tied tightly. Two days after, the ligature is tightened, and after the cutting.through is completed, on about the fourth or fifth day, the wound remains open from the bottom till the cure is perfected. In very large hydroceles he thrusts the needle into the middle of the swelling, carries its point upwards out through the skin, leaves one end of the thread loose, carries the b point of the needle back into the cavity of the vaginal tunic, thrusts it through the skin if below, and brings the other end of the thread out, and as he draws the needle out leaves ij the thread double in the middle wound, and cutting it through there, forms two n$1;; ligatures, each of which he ties. ll [My friend Green, from having observed the difficulty of regulating the inflam- iifti mation, in treating hydrocele by injection, the impossibility of determining, at the ■«. time of the operation, what the effect will be in respect to the quantity of in- i). flammation, and the dangerous results from the injection having been thrown : (into the cellular tissue of the scrotum, instead of into the vaginal tunic, was led jjri to employ the seton (b), but differently from either of the above-mentioned modes. i He thought, “if a seton were carried through the tunica vaginalis, there would be a h source of irritation sufficient to produce the required inflammation, and at the same time the opportunity given of regulating its degree, that is, that the seton might be a lowed to remain till there were symptoms of such a degree of inflammation as is n requisite for the change necessary to be produced in the tunic, and that this being a effected, the seton might be withdrawn ; and that the extraneous irritant being thus ! removed, it would have no farther effect than was necessary, either for the change of '»* the surface of the membrane, or for the obliteration of the tunic, (pp. 73, 74.) The ■id requisite degree of inflammation is one which is attended with the ordinary symptoms gi of that process, that is to say, pain, heat, swelling, some redness, and some constitu- : tional affection. There should be, I think, some affection of the pulse, some in- f; dication of febrile action in the system, before the seton is withdrawn. As soon as i ; this has been observed the threads may be removed, and I believe that you may f then expect you have excited inflammation enough to cure the disease. So that it is not whether the seton has remained in ten, twelve, or twenty hours, for this must be hi regulated by circumstances, but whether then the requisite degree of inflammation lij is produced. _ I should say that twenty hours was about the average time for the BCseton to remain; hut it will vary in different instances.” (p. 76.) Green’s method c°ns1jsts *n drawing off the water, as usual, with a trocar and canula, and when d the hydrocele is emptied, the «canula still remaining in, to pass a needle six inches •n in length, and as thick as a probe, with a trocar point at one, and an eye at the Tf other end, armed with twelve threads of ordinary seton silk, into the canula, and aving carried it upwards to perforate the tunica vaginalis and integuments, near the t'i tipper and fore part of the swelling, and draw it out at that aperture. The canula is ! then removed, and the ends of the threads loosely tied together over a space of about two inches,’ (p. 59,) and these allowed to remain in till the inflammatory symptoms shove mentioned make their appearance. 1 ' * fori;lerly employed this practice a good many times, but one great objection seems »fvto me the close watching it requires for some hours, and the difficulty there always is • L rmin,ng th? precise time when the seton threads should be withdrawn : and ’ . ‘ *,0ftcn’ even with the greatest care, either very severe inflammation would occur, I . Z, en ,enouSh only was supposed present to effect the cure, that it suddenly sub- : l ecuied'?natUic0ni °Prrf01! was„ re^uisite' . After ushlg the iodine injection, I never trt;atmCnt’ altll0USh 11 was grounded upon better reasons than wer ot the other modes of using setons seem to have originated in.—J. F. S.] l955n.The UJe a tent consists in the introduction, after puncturing- eswelling, of a tent of lint, or a piece of bougie, through the opening Hmt0 the cavity of the vaginal tunic. 3water56; CttUffio* citing of a paste made with nitrate of silver and ' il l app • the usual way "P°n the front of the swelling, and Pj el to remain for six or eight hours. When the slough has fallen off, 1828."ng der Hydr0Cele <lurch *!i? ; in Gkakfe und Walthkb’s Journal, vol. xiii. p. W St. I homas s Hospital Reports.506 HYDROCELE; TREATMENT RY CAUSTIC, AND CUTTING the cauterized part is to be punctured with a lancet, and covered, aftei j the emptying of the swelling is complete, with wadding. According to Hesselbach (a), a plaster full of holes, and spread -with powdemv nitrate of silver, as thick as a knife, should be applied on the front of the swelling ] over which a wad of linen and some sticking plaster should be placed, and the wholl fastened with a compress and a bag truss. After eight hours the caustic and the a plaster are to be taken off, the scrotum cleansed with water, and some lint spreac with digestive ointment, applied to the slough. When this falls offi the vagina), tunic is laid bare, and being raised, by the pressure of the swelling, like a ball, thi* i rounded part is then cut with the scissors, and the water emptied. The wound i j to be cleansed daily with water, or with camomile tea, and bound up with lint. A', every dressing, pieces of the tunic separate until the whole has come away. Tk( wound daily diminishes, the suppuration ceases, and the wound closes. 1957. In cutting away the vaginal tunic, the skin of the scrotum, and the vaginal tunic are divided, the latter drawn out of the wound with the fingers, and cut off throughout its whole extent by a cut lengthways * The dressing and after-treatment are the same as in the operation by incision. Boyer (b) recommends cutting through the skin the whole length of the swelling,! for the purpose of isolating the vaginal tunic as far as possible opposite the testicle^ then to open it, and cut off the flaps. Dupuytren considers it more simple to grasp-, the swelling, at the upper and back part, with one hand, so as to tighten the skin as - much as possible in front, then to cut into the skin, to shell the vaginal tunic out, j by pressing from behind forwards, and then to open and cut it off. Textor (c).j endeavoured to unite the wound by quick union, as Douglas had previously done.. Balling (d) strongly recommends excision; the part to be cut off should be some inches, of a semicircular form. After the operation, moderately cold applications: should be employed till a layer of lymph appear on the wound, and the union is to be effected with sticking plaster. [I apprehend no one would, in the present day, employ either of the latter two very- painful and uncalled for modes of practice, which are now mere matters of history.— J. F. S.] 1958. The preference and rejection of the several methods above described must be decided on the following grounds. It is not advisable to produce upon the testicle any irritation like that on the vaginal tunic. By incision, all the complications can be most distinctly made out, at the same time any existing intestinal rupture can be properly treated, the in- flammation be more properly excited, and effect a more safe cure. The bleeding which occurs in this operation is easily stanched; the severe symptoms occurring after it are most commonly the result of bad practice. After the cut, it is in most cases necessary to insert a half unravelled* piece of linen between the wounded edges of the vaginal tunic. Injections operate uncertainly, as the irritability of the individual cannot be previ- ously determined ; they act as violently on the testicle as on the scrotum ; if a part of the injection be poured into the cellular tissue, which is possi- ble, even with the greatest care and attention, very dangerous symptoms may arise therefrom ; in a diseased state of the testicle, which cannot always be decidedly made out, injections are necessarily hurtful. The superiority of injections, to wit, that by their use the cure follows more quickly, and that the patient does not need to be kept so long quiet, is of no value, as even after injection the cure is often longer protracted than by incision, and with the latter keeping so long quiet is not necessary. The i same observations apply also to the cure by seton and by tent, except that (n) Jahrbiicher tier philosonhisch-medicinischen Gesellschaft z.u Wiirzberg, vol. i. (f,) Maladies Chirurgicales, vol. x. p. 209. (c) Ueber cine neue Art die Hydrocele lieilon; in N. Chiron., vol. i. p. 416. (rf) Heidelb. klin. Annal., vol. vil. p.AWAY THE VAGINAL TUNIC; CONGENITAL HYDROCELE. 507 with them the cure is still less sure. Caustic also acts uncertainly; its operation is slow and painful: incision is therefore to be considered the most sure. Extirpation is to be confined to those cases only where the vaginal tunic is highly disorganized or bony (a). [I have thought it more convenient to notice the advantages and disadvantages of the several modes of treating hydrocele, when describing each method. To these, there- fore, the reader is referred back.—J. F. S.] 1959. Congenital hydrocele (Hydrocele congenita') consists in a collec- tion of water in the canal of the vaginal tunic, which remains open either throughout its whole length, or only at certain parts, in consequence ot which several kinds of hydrocele are formed : first, the canal is open throughout its whole length, and filled with water ; second, the canal is closed above the testicle, and remains open only at the upper part; third, the upper part closes and the water is contained in the lower part, and in the vaginal tunic of the testicle; fourth, the canal is obliterated above and below, and there remains only a bladder-like cavity at one part, which contains water. 1960. If the whole vaginal process of the peritonaum remain open from its orifice in the belly to its bottom, and the water collect in it, a long roundish swelling appears, which reaches from the abdominal ring to the testicle. The testicle is either little, or not at all felt, because it is com- pletely surrounded with water; but, on the contrary, the spermatic cord is distinctly felt along the hind surface of the swelling, though rather more outwards. The possibility of pushing back the fluid, and its return by the abdominal aperture of the vaginal process causes the diminished size or total disappearance of the swelling, in the horizontal posture, or by pressure, and its increase in the upright posture, by exertion, coughing, and the like. This subsidence and reappearance of the swelling does not take place with equal readiness in all cases: if, for instance, the upper part of the vaginal canal be somewhat narrowed, a longer continued pres- sure upon the swelling from below upwards is necessary, in order to force the water back; or it must also be raised somewhat inwards, so as to bring the vaginal process in a right line with the inguinal canal: the water re- tires slowly, and only slowly returns. The natural cure is in these cases not rare. If the disease continue beyond the first month, it becomes larger; sometimes it attains quickly, sometimes slowly, a considerable size. The end of the first twelvemonth’ the third and seventh year, and the period of puberty, have considerable influence on the development and subsidence of this kind of hydrocele. Closely resembling hydrocele of the vaginal process in man, is the congenital hydrocele oj womm, in which, by the collection of water in the peritoneal sheath of the round ligament, a swelling is formed, which passes through the inguinal canal into the lower part of the labium pudendi, and is at first returnable, but afterwards not so (5). 1961. This hydrocele may have already formed in thefcetus, and after- wards become further developed ; but it may first arise after birth, as the vaginal canal often remains open for some time. The circumstance of the vaginal process often remaining a long while open, and no water being co ected in it, proves that the water does not merely flow from the belly mote vaginal process, but that its collection depends on undue propor- >) Tkxtor,above cited.—Kr,kin; in Hcidell Inn - A"n»h. v°l. 11. p. 109.-SrANOKNBF.ua in Urakfk uml Wat.tumi's Journ., vol. ix. p. 1. (6) Saochi ; in Annali Universali de Medicina, vol. lvii. p. 437. 1831.508 COMPLICATED HYDROCELE; (n) (Elivips Cliinirgicales, vol. ii. p. 441. tion between absorption and secretion on the inner surface of the vaginal rj canal. This disease is frequent, but in many cases is not observed, par- q tially on account of its slight degree, and the child’s constantly lying on his , n back, and in part because it subsides of itself. It is not unfrequently 3 accompanied with protrusion of the intestine or omentum. 1962. The cure depends on getting rid of the water, and closing thejH vaginal process by the adhesion of its walls. Viguerin endeavours ta| effect it by pressing back the water into the belly, and closing the abdo- i minal ring with a truss. Desault, after returning any existing rupture,- and carefully closing the abdominal ring by pressure, punctured the swel- ling, emptied the water, and injected red wine, which after a little time he< withdrew, and wrapped the whole scrotum with compresses steeped in red’ l wine, and applied a truss (a). 1963. Although the treatment of congenital hydrocele, with injec- tions, has, in many instances, been successful, it cannot, however, be denied, that it always has a very serious effect on little children, and j that dangerous inflammation may ensue. Viguerin’s practice is, there- fore, always preferable, and may, perhaps, cause a more certain cure, if the pressure be sufficiently strongly made on the upper part of the f vaginal process, and a suspender, moistened with spirits of wine, vinegar,'; and muriate of ammonia, or any other astringent fluid, be at the sanies time worn. 1964. If the vaginal process be adherent merely above the testicle,: and thence open into the cavity of the belly, a bladder-like swellingjj is formed by the collection of the water in this open part, which may j extend even into the cavity through the abdominal ring. The water s can be returned but slowly into the belly. The treatment is the same i as in the previous case. £ 1965. If the abdominal mouth of the vaginal canal be closed to the pillars of the abdominal ring, and the other part remain open, the water■» collects in that part even to the bottom of the vaginal tunic. In this; case the swelling terminates at the ring, and the water cannot bd pressed back into the belly. 1966. If the vaginal canal be obliterated above and below, a cyst is i formed in the part remaining open by the collection of water, w hich i cyst is connected with the peritonceum, and extends from the abdominal i ring to the testicle. After lying on the back the swelling is less tense; but it becomes more full and elastic after long standing. If com- pressed, it recedes a little, but quickly reappears. The spermatic cord < may be felt below or behind the swelling. 1967. The treatment of these last two kinds of congenital hydrocele requires, in most cases, only the use of dispersing remedies, by which, m children almost always, their cure is effected. These are rubbing in ; mercurial ointment, or spirituous fluids; the steam of vinegar; fumiga- tion with mastic, amber, or sugar ; lotions of spirits of wine, red wine, the acetated liquor of ammonia, alum dissolved in water, with a little sul- phuric acid ; dispersing plasters, and the like. If not thus cured, the * water must be emptied by puncture, and the radical cure by injection, or by blow ing in air, resorted to. In cystic hydrocele, in children, the dxs- - charge of the water is best managed by puncture with the lancet; buDIAGNOSIS. 509 in adults, the cyst should be laid bare with a cut, and removed with Cooper’s scissors. The following works may be consulted on Congenital Hydrocele :— Schreger, Neue Darstellungen aus dem Gebiete der Hydrocele; in his Chi- rurgiscke Versuche, vol. i. p. 1. Wall, C. A., De diversa Hydroceles congenitae natura. Berl., 1820. 1968. When a hydrocele is connected with a rupture, that is, when the sac of a congenital or accidental rupture has its usual contents of collected water and protruded intestine, the hydrocele in general rises up to the pre-existent rupture ; the hydrocele is rarely first present, and the rupture subsequent. In most cases rupture, complicated with hydrocele, is always accompanied with adhesion, and the hydrocele is the unnatural secretion of the inner surface of the rupture-sac, in consequence of the inflammation which has caused the adhesion. This inflammation may arise from undue pressure of a truss, from catching cold, external violence, and the like. A collection of water soon forms in strano-u- s lated rupture. 1969. The symptoms vary according as the hydrocele connected with a rupture is larger or smaller. For example, first, if the protruded intestine be quite full, and close the upper part of the rupture-sac, and the water collect only in the lower space, as happens when an inguinal rupture is added to a pre-existing congenital hydrocele, or a hydrocele to a congenital rupture, or an omental or intestinal rupture t adherent at the neck of the sac is complicated with hydrocele, then the form of the swelling is at first conical, with its base towards the ab- i dominal ring; but, in proportion as the water collects, the upper part of the swelling becomes narrower. If the rupture or the hydrocele be t congenital, the swelling extends to the bottom of the scrotum, then it is / surrounded with water, and cannot at all or not satisfactorily be distin- : pished. On the contrary, if the swelling be confined to the testicle, it can be felt at the under hinder part. Second. If the protruded intestine com- ! Fet.eJy enter the rupture-sac, and the water only spread over its surface and ‘ the interspaces, as in hydrocele accompanying ruptures which are movable enlarge easily, are very old, or are attached to the bottom of the rupture- sac, then the swelling enlarges more in breadth than in length, and mostly assumes an oval form. Third. In a congenital rupture, when the upper part S “f canal ,ls narrow> and little extensible, the water may com- ?„®Je y tihe Wh° 6 *?ag> and merely a small portion of intestine or omen- wffi.Te ? externally through the abdominal ring, and be surrounded ■■ ith the water Fourth. A small intestinal rupture, when accompanv- tf )h= .a Previously existing hydrocele, may remain in the canal between I Prevented“bT?!. ““fw aM“mi",al rillSs>in whioh the rupture is 1: menUoned. Stn0ture ® Ca"al exceedi"g ‘he bounds just I with^runture f°f ‘.hT different torms of M^cefe, complicated The fnlPtuye’ ls> in many instances, accompanied with great difficulty |„ph'fmZfZTT™’ !‘°^Ver’ lead t0 iL 1,1 case, tile Shard but dnLbv J? hng’ W ien 1lutestine is t'mre, is firm, elastic, and Ptains’ the water W-ltjVan om®nta.1 rupture ; the lower part, which con- Ea reducible ’ ? yield'ng]y elastic, sometimes even fluctuating. With I ^ reTinS’ after its return, a fulnefs at the w ucli cannot be produced by a piece of intestine, be-COMPLICATED HYDROCELE; TREATMENT. 510 (n) CEuvres Chirurg., vol. ii. p. 441. cause it is not attached to the abdominal ring, and when this is the ij case, the water can be driven backwards and forwards. In old and 4 adherent ruptures the diagnosis may be more difficult, though it can ? be determined by a close examination, and the case may be distinguished | from a growth of the protruded parts, or from an enlargement of the § swelling by newly-projected parts. In the second case, examination • $ does not present the simple elasticity of intestinal rupture, nor the § regularly distended condition of hydrocele, as at the part where thejl intestine is, it is more rebounding, and the fluctuation scarcely at all.il decided, and only obscurely perceivable at some spots. In this and the: H previous case, there is this peculiarity, that in long-continued hori-i zontal posture the bulk of the swelling lessens, as a part of the water,- if the neck of the sac be not entirely closed, by the adherence of the'* rupture itself, returns into the belly ; on the contrary, in long-continued- standing, the swelling enlarges, by the re-descent of the water. In the* third and fourth cases, the diagnosis may indeed be difficult ; here,, however, the history of the disease, as well as a certain fulness of the inguinal region, immediately above the external abdominal ring, directs-j the practitioner, as well as the circumstance, that if the rupture follow a pre-existing hydrocele, instead of the appearance of the fulness in the* ino-uinal region, the water is returned with more difficulty into the. cavity of the belly, and that it returns freely, when the rupture has.; entirely, or, for the most part, been reduced by the previous attempts't at reduction acting on the region of the abdominal ring. 1971. The treatment of hydrocele accompanied with rupture, is espe- cially directed in reference to the condition of the latter, whether it be movable or adherent. 1972. With a movable rupture, a cut an inch in length is first made-, through the skin, so as to return the intestine, the exposed rupture-sac is then lifted up with the forceps, and a slight opening made in it with the scissors for the purpose of introducing an injection-tube, through which, > the abdominal ring being carefully closed, one of the above-mentioned^ injections {par. 1951) may be thrown in to excite adhesive inflammation, and with moderate compression, to produce union. After the reduction off the rupture, this may be effected by making a cut and introducing a tent. - A truss must be worn till the complete adhesion of the sac has beent effected, and even longer. Desault (cl) first emptied the water by a puncture with a trocar, then whilst thei canula was remaining in, replaced the rupture, and injected red wine. 1973. When the rupture is adherent, and the adhesions are firm and considerable, the treatment, with an intestinal rupture, must be merely confined to palliation by puncturing with a lancet, after previously making! a cut through the skin, or opening the exposed rupture-sac as in thM operation for strangulated rupture, and by the use of a suspendor. Con- genital omental rupture allows an earlier radical cure of hydrocele, as the- omentum more readily assumes the process of adhesive inflammation. I>> however, the union be slight, which may be determined by the possibility of reducing the greater part of the rupture, the sac must be earefuliyj opened by a cut as in the operation for hydrocele, the adhesions divide*^ the taxis employed, and then by introducing a tent of lint a sufhcienENCYSTED HYDROCELE. 511 £ degree of inflammation excited for the purpose of furthering the adhesion | of the rupture-sac (a). [I do not think that under any circumstances a conjoined congenital hydrocele and I; rupture, or a congenital hydrocele followed by protrusion of intestine, should be $ meddled with in any way beyond the use of cold astringent washes and the application i'of a truss. Injections or the introduction of tents I should think exceedingly dan- gerous practice, and on no account to be resorted to.—J. F. S.] 1974. Hydrocele of the general vaginal tunic (Hydrocele tuniccc vaginalis communis) is either an cedematous swelling in the cellular tissue, which surrounds the spermatic cord, or the water collects in one or more cells of the spermatic cord, or is found in hydatids (b). 1975. In the first case, the swelling which is along the spermatic cord, at first produces no inconvenience, the scrotum is not altered, except that if it be not wrinkled, it drops lower on one side than the other. The testicle is felt in its natural state. The swelling is broader below than above, seems to diminish by gentle and pushing pressure, though it resumes its appearance when the pressure is removed, both when the patient lies down and stands up. If fluctuation be observed, it is only distinct at the bottom, because the water sinks down especially, tears some of the cells and so forms a larger cavity ; therefore, no considerable quantity of water can be drawn off when a puncture is made anywhere but at the bottom of the swelling. If the base of the tumour be pressed, the water quickly f rises up towards the top, and distends it. And if the swelling be within - he abdominal ring, it distends it also. When it acquires a certain size, the patient often feels pain and dragging in the loins. The disease may Pe accompanied with a varicose state of the spermatic cord, and with omenta rupture. Its confusion with the latter of these is very easy, and r°!!°™» !naJ be remembered as distinguishing characters between -hem, that the hydrocele of the spermatic cord has less consistence, and las not so irregular surface as omental rupture ; it is also usually broader I' ® bfse’ whlls;t the contrary is the case with omental rupture (c) mall " S° l0n,g aSuthe1.fTeIling in infiltration of the spermatic cord is St\hpUSPeird°r ^ be W°rn 1 When the disease becomes inconve- nd ini nT ,n7,mU be,0pTd with a cut, without wounding the cord, 1Q77 7 ° W°Und’ Which is t0 be cured by granulation. Hydrocele in one or more cysts {Hydrocele cystica') is mostlv . m the middle of the spermatic W the swelling “producit * D dlften<^e^’ so th^t the fluctuation is not always distinguishable lienear tbP Pai|nles.s’ and. transparent. It can never be diminished. If 'l eteSnl f doming ring, it can be often somewhat pushed into it owart Thp w-Td r ?isthlCt.ly felL If the swelling enlarge deeply ' ounrr r th t6StlC 6’ the latter is felt on its hind part. Children and ible thTt T mT SUbjeCt'° this hydrocele than adults; it is ve^ rhinal canaf f-iT?*. cas.ef. thls results from a partial opening of the 1, le eTl nl l } 11 13 obIlterated above and below, and loses itself in 0 >e cellular tissue, (par 1966) (d). es ltselt 111 mlntST^^qm1""8 7 „°f‘“ disPerscd % ‘he remedies (Par- 1)67); "> adults tt is stubborn. If an operation t nd)laSHjL°E";t U°ber, Erkenntnlss uml He- XwcCi I™ comPlicirtcn -Hydro- sur uno Tumeuraqueuse ! 5? } a“ovc Cited, p. 86. . ILarbey, Observation iin Mem. de Chirurg. Militaire, vol. iii. fc) Scarpa. (d) Scarpa, above cited.—Frohiep's Cliirurg. lvupfertaf., pi. cii. ciii. °URINARY STONE. 512 be required, the cyst is to be laid bare by a simple cut through the ski * opened, and so much of it removed as can be done without wounding th | spermatic cord ; some lint is to be put into the wound, the suppuratu 31 destroys the rest of the cyst, and the wound heals by granulation. Fourth Section.—FORMATION OF STONY CONCRETIONS IN THE |l FLUIDS OF THE BODY. 1979. In the various fluids of the body, especially in the urine, bi> spittle, and faces, when they are retained, or when their properties a altered by individual constitution, disease, mode of life, influence of clitnafa or of food, in regard to their quality and quantity, hard, stony concretio may be formed by the union of the several constituents, or by the produ. tion of new substances. Sometimes there may be a foreign body aroui which the constituent parts of the fluids are deposited so as to incrust . The phenomena which these concretions produce, are different accordm to their seat, their form, and their quantity. The treatment consists ■ their solution or removal. At present merely the stony concretions in the urine are to be considered. I—OF URINARY STONE. Beverovich, J., De Calculo renum et vesica; liber singularis; cum epistolis et a sultationibus magnorum virorum. Lugd. Batav-, 1638. Tenon, Recherches sur la nature des Pierres ou Calculs du Corps humain; in Mel de l’Acad. des Sciences, 1764, p. 374. Scheele, C. W., Untersuchungen des Blasensteines; in Sehwedischen Alihan lungen, vol. xxxvii. 1776. Austin, William, M.D., On the component parts of the Stone in the Urinary Bladdu London, 1780. Link, H. F., De Analysi Urina; et Origine Calculi. Gottiug., 1788. Walter, F. H., Anatomisches Museum, vol. i. Berlin, 1796; with five plates. Wollaston, W. IL, M.D., On Gouty and Urinary Concretions ; in Phil. Trans., v lxxxvii. p. 886. 1797. Pearson, George, M.D., Experiments and Observations to show the composition a: properties of the Urinary Concretions; in Phil. Trans., vol. lxxxvin. p. 15. l i Fourcroy, Examen des Experiences et des Observations de M. Pearson ; in AnnaM de Chimie, vol. xxvii. p. 225. in Mel Guyton ; in same, p. 294. Fourcroy, Observations sur les Calculs urinaires de la Vcssie de l’Homme, de la Socicte Me'dicale, vol. ii. p. 64. 1799. Des Calculs urinaires de l’Homme ; in his Systbme des Counaissanc Chimiques, vol. v. p. 5U1. Paris, 1801. . Fourcroy, Sur le Nombre, la Nature, et les Caracthres distinctifs d^ d.TOre materiaux qui forment les Calculs, les Bczoards et les diverses Concrcti Animaux; in Annales du Muse'e d’Histoire Naturelle, vol. l. p. 93. Ians. • Brande, William, On the differences in the structure of Calculi, which ariseiJk their being formed in different parts of the Urinary Passages ; and oni the■ fflccts u> are produced on them by the internal use of solvent medicines ; in 1 hil. Ira xcviii. p. 223. 1808.513 ORIGIN OF URINARY CONCRETIONS. Wollaston, W. H., M.D., On Cystic Oxide, a new species of Urinary Calculus • in Phil. Trans., vol. c. p. 223. 1810. ’ Marcet, Alexander, M.D., Essay on the Chemical History and Medical Treatment of Calculous Disorders. London, 1817. 8vo. Magendie, Recherches physiologiques et medicales sur les Causes, les Symptomes et le Traitement de la Gravelle. Paris, 1818. Brugnatelli, L. V., Litologia umana ossia Ricerche chimiche e mediche solle Sostanze Petrose che si formano in diversi parti de corpo umano, soprattuto nella Vesica Urinaria. Opera postuma, public, dal D. G. Brugnatelli. Pavia, 1817. fol. 3 plates. von Walther, P., Ueber die Harnsteine, ihre Entstehung und Classification; in Journal fur Chirurgie und Augenheilkunde. vol. i. p. 190—p. 387. Henry, William, M.D., On Urinary and other Morbid Concretions : in Med -Chir Trans., vol. x. p. 128. 1819. ' Prodt, William, M.D., An Inquiry into the Nature and Treatment of Gravel Organs1*5' Loudon *181 gISeaseS connected with a deranged operation of the Urinary Wetzlar, G. Beitrage zur Kenntniss des menschlichen Harnes und die Entstehung Sfort,ei821. 8vo nGr °n'edeUndeiuigen Allme' k<mgen begleitetvon F. Wurzer Laugier, Sur les Concre'tions qui se formentdans le Corps. Paris, 1825. Third EdUh)n B'8vo °n the Diseases of *e Urinary Organs’. London, 1842. Martin, E. A., De Lithogenesi, praesertim urinaria. Jenm, 1838. Co“,ituen,s' “a «f «» Civiale, J'raite de l’Afifection calculeuse, etc. Paris, 1838 ; with five plates. nnff und v^aflated inc? German/'y Hollstein as, Ueber die mediciuische Behand- "vshn ml 8 iUnf ^ Steines51|Gneses- nebsteiner Abhandl. fiber die Steine aus Jysnn; mit Bemerk., u. s. w. Berlin, 1820. Willis, Robert, M.D., Urinary Diseases and their Treatment. London, 1838. 8vo. LiSS Phv^foW^n SraVeI’ Cal.Culus’,and Gout 5 chiefly aD application of Professor -.iebig s Physiology to the prevention and cure of these diseases. London, 1842. 8vo. Jm^°r Tho“AS) A Descriptive and Illustrated Catalogue of the Calculi and other s°K£rt«?m Museu"of *he Koyai co,i's' °f s“rs»“^ 1980. The deposits from the urine are either powderv or crystalline lK*'LTiTMit"alge concretio"> stones’ 'vhich are formed by the union of b»e S“bieCt “arM T- T" both!1' Fr°m thf earli.est times various opinions have been advanced as lace whkih^ho^^i111 the f?rmation of these concretions take ce, which, however, has only been placed on a sure base by the progress iall hv S’ a by thr Careful examination of t^se concretions, espe- u Jr pCr EVW°LLASTON’ Fo™c*<>y> Vauqitelin, Brande iauclt, Prout, Magendie, Fuchs, Liebig, Woehder w7ttt« I 'hich°haye T1 thC °ld opinions> those theories only R one wilTbelere giy?n.S ^ “ reference to the Nation of jh Uuralists °f ^ °ld practitioners aud ^ iat the eautesEfNfME’ " '1° tr^ats sPecdaHy °f uric acid concretions imagines 1 ' ; 6 CaU86S °f &ravel and sto«<* of this kind depend 0» cm absolutely [ VOL.8n™ma de AnalyS‘ Cl‘em!ca Cttlc,lli Kcnalis Marburg, 181?. (i) Above cited. 2 L511 ORIGIN OF increased quantity of uric acid, on a diminished quantity of the urin * with the like quantity of uric acid, and on the diminished temperature o M the urine, in consequence of which the uric acid is deposited either in tli :i form of gravel, or, being united by some connecting matter, forms th i ■ larger concretions. The quantity of uric acid is increased by the use c • food abounding with azote, flesh meat, strong wine, liquors, want of exen cise, and the like. The quantity of urine diminishes whilst the quantit of uric acid still remains the same, in violent sweating. And the tempera ture of the urine diminishes in advanced age, on which account gravel i then of common appearance. The above cases are also especially favour able to gout; and, therefore, between gout and stone there is a close alteit nation. . . j 1983. von Waltiif.k assumes, besides the excessive production oj un acid, a change in its quality, at least in reference to its degree of oxida tion, and a more or less copious secretion of a connecting gluten. Thes three circumstances arise from a vital influence of the urinary organs 01 the fluids contained in them ; and the activity inducing lithogenesis, con sists, if not in an inflammation of the mucous membrane of these partsI (as believed by the English physician, W. Austin,) at least in a state analagous to it.' Hence originates a more copious production of the con' necting substance which takes up the precipitated particles of the strongly oxidized uric acid, and thus gradually forms the nucleus of the stone I Without this connecting matter, sand and gravel alone are produced. Thd presence of this gluten, especially prevents the crystallization of the con stituent parts of the stone and the ammoniaco-magnesian phosphate alom is most frequently crystallised in stones. Lithogenesis is to. be cofisi dered as a medium between chemical crystallisation and organic growth!! but it has always the greater disposition towards the latter. Stones are characterised by their organic structure ; and their proces of formation is comparable to the origin of indurations, scirrhus and thd like, von Walther distinguishes between urinary incrustations o foreign bodies, in which the phosphoric acid salts of the urine are depo- sited in a similar way to that in which the dipping of a foreign body mt< a solution of salt produces its crystallization, whereby the outermost la) ei of most urinary stones consists of phosphates, and urinary concie ionst the formation of which takes place as above described. In regau 0 several kinds of stones, he considers the relative want of hydrogen in ( urinary system, to be in all cases a necessary condition in the production J stone, both as regards the concretions of uric acid, and those wine i con tain oxalate of lime. Excess of azote appears to determine the origin the former as the want of it does that of the latter. Between thei COM cretions of uric acid and the gout there is a relation similar to that betw the phosphatic concretions and the imperfect development of the bo y ^VStGITl. • • 1984. Wetzlar has endeavoured to controvert both these °Pinl0"^ In opposition to Magendie, he asserts that, although in many ca~ ‘ gravel depends on the absolutely or relatively increased quantity o ‘ uric acid, the production of concretions of uric acid often occurs u circumstances which do not produce uric acid in excess; nor does deposit take place when the urine contains very much urate o , for instance, in the critical urine of fever, where sediment < <, form until after the urine has cooled. Against Walther s 0URINARY CONCRETIONS. 515 I AVetzlar objects that stones, although existing in an organic fluid, p are not to be considered as organic bodies ; and that their structure and i form have nothing which entitles them to be called so : that the as- I sumption of a changed condition of the uric acid, and a peculiar It affection of the urinary passages, is hypothetical; that an increased ' production of uric acid is by no means necessary for the formation of . stone, as no precipitation of the uric acid is caused by it; that the natural quantity of uric acid is sufficient to yield material for con- cretion ; and that the free state of uric acid, hitherto considered as a natural condition, is an unnatural one, and the' proximate cause of stone. He is of opinion that the uric acid occurs in combination with soda, and when, instead of the weak lactic acid, which is the free acid of the urine (1), and may co-exist with the urate of soda, a stronger acid is secreted, which decomposes that salt, then the uric acid is pre- cipitated ; an opinion which Trout had already advanced, with regard to the. occurrence of uric acid with ammonia, in the urine, and the pre- _ppitation of the former by the development of another free acid. Al- J though Magendie has not admitted the transmission of acids into the !| urine, yet A\7eltzlar believes that an excess of acids in the juices p may occur from acid drinks, sour wines, bad sour beer, unnatural acidity m in the prinue via, especially in children; and that it may also occur from the relative want of another element, as hydrogen. The secretion , the urine in the kidneys is assumed to be from a process of oxi- lation and combustion ; if this be more quick, active, and ener- i tl'en’ blstead °f weak lactic acid, a stronger acid is secreted, A “ouch decomposes the urate of soda. Here the doctrine of Austin and |Waether, of a sort of inflammatory irritation of the urinary organs, i •? S°me Cases’ be. wel1 founded, as an inflammatory condition of ■ the kidneys is the excitant of a more powerful oxidating process for |-he secretion of urine, and is thus actually the cause of lithogenesis. | lhe connecting medium, the animal gluten, is, according to Wetzlar ? , ae?essaiT for the production of stone. This always goes on slowly IZ 'i * easy t0 comprehend how as this precipitation slowly takes place, Klfpi molecules O uric acid unite, attract animal matter, especially I JutrV he neighbourhood of the fragment, and gradually increase. 1 tnno ■h0wever’ )s 110 organic growth. That the materials of which 1 -„nl lC0T°Sed.are nearly a]1 uncrystallized in it, as Yon AValther be 2/™” lts orfan,lc formation, is very natural, as even without i ve S Whlf,h Prevents crystallization, these constituents | Zll 1 disposition thereto, even out of the body. In sand and rate of 1S a ?eP°f because there is an excessive production of Le urine d ^ Sa 18 VGry quickly separated and discharged with | r [in'i*freshBmilk) e*lstencf of lactic acid, either in the urine, - oftne^agnest ^ ^ a chemioaf ?g Y ^is not necessary to seek anxiously after la eertai,, (“JJ*°r th® ?.eposit of unc acid; it is sufficient to say, that idh isturbance of Y^18. 0. ’ '6 constitution, under the influence of peculiar L (a) ^ t Vitality of the kidneys, a very insoluble constituent is <» *mie '^IgYTsiI" ML'ns,ht'11 und fleisdifrcssenden Thiere; in Annalen der 2 l 2UlUNAllY STONE, 516 produced from these organs. He considers the production of uric aciefl and urates, of oxalates, of cystic and xanthic oxides as very simila < f, and thinks that, according to the results of modern chemistry, by whicij * a quantity of organic substances may, by a peculiar treatment, be coi n verted into one another, the origin of these various concretions may 1 cleared up. Urea, of which the ultimate elements are 46,65 nitroge 19,97 carbon, 6,65 hydrogen, and 26,65 oxygen, (N4 C4 H4 O2,) is co verted into uric acid, when the proportions of nitrogen and hydrogc are diminished, and the quantity of carbon and oxygen increased, 33,i nitrogen, 36,00 carbon, 2,36 hydrogen, 28,27 oxygen (N4 Cs H40:i ;- If the proportions of nitrogen, carbon, and oxygen, remain as in ur- . acid, while the quantity of oxygen is diminished about one atom, ur; oxide (xanthic oxide, according to Marcet) is produced (N4 C5 II4 O ■ If the quantities of nitrogen and carbon be diminished, whilst tl 3 quantities of hydrogen and oxygen are relatively increased, cystLn (cystic oxide of Wollaston) is produced, 11,85 nitrogen, 29,88 carbo 5,12 hydrogen, 53,15 oxygen (N C3 Hc O1.) If, on the one ham nitrogen and hydrogen combine, and on the other, carbon and hi droo-en, in nearly the same proportions as the former exist in ur acid, and the latter in cystin, oxalic acid is produced, 33,99 carbo 53,33 oxygen. fCl'\ Sulphur forms an essential coustituent of cystic oxide; and Thaulow ( ascertained that it contained about 25 percent, of that element. The accuracy'! this statement has been confirmed by the analyses of two stones in the Museum • the Royal College of Surgeons (&). According to Thaulow, cystic oxide consist of carbon, 30,01; hydrogen, 5,10; nitrogen, 11,00; oxygen, 28,38; sulphur, 2j,d t and that it is represented by the formula CG H6 N.O.4 S .—T. T.] 1986. Jones assumes on Liebig’s principles, that uric acid is produci from tissues which afford albumen and gluten, {gelatine?) in consequent of a change of matter, and the effect of oxygen. That the uric acid converted by the influence of oxygen, into alloxan and urea ; that, a farther operation of the oxygen upon the alloxan the latter is eitli chano-ed into oxalic acid and urea, or into oxaluric and parabamc aci or into carbonic acid and urea; and that the quantity of uric acid whir is separated, alternates in inverse proportion to the quantity, which rj still further altered within the body, and with the amount of action • the oxygen. On these principles we may, perhaps, establish a goner, theory of the causes of lithogenesis as follows:—When the health o-ood, and the operation of the oxygen perfect, there is no deposit in tl urine ; if the oxygen act in a slighter degree, there is a deposit oxalate of lime ; if, in a still less degree, urate of ammonia, or ur acid, is formed. If the health be disturbed, or if the urine becoto^ alkaline, from the irritation which the stone produces, the phosphates a. * precipitated ; and if the effect of the oxygen be still further restrict* only an exceedingly small quantity of phosphoric acid is produced, an carbonate of lime is precipitated. 1987. For the proper explanation of the origin of stone, it seems mu convenient first to ascertain the origin of those substances which ato* are capable of forming the so-called nucleus of urinary stone, or of oet ■precipitated as gravel, as the deposit of various substances upon a sto ( (6) Taylor’s Catalogue, above cited, PMl p. 137. (a) Annalcn der Pharmacie, vol. xxvil. p. 200. 1838-517 CONSTITUENTS OF. once formed is less difficult to understand and to explain. It must not, however, be overlooked that the altered condition of the kidneys, and of the urinary organs in general, has an important influence in the produc- tion of stone. 198S. The general constituents of stones, excepting t.he animal matter existing in different quantity as the connecting material, are: — 1. Uric Acid. 6. Carbonate of Lime. 2. Urate of Ammonia. 7. Silica (l). 3. Phosphate of Lime. 8. Cystic Oxide. 4. Phosphate of Ammonia and 9. Xanthic Oxide. Magnesia. 10. Iron (1). 5. Oxalate of Lime. Of these substances the following occur in the nuclei of stones, or they may form their entire bulk :— (a) Uric Acid. (d) Cystic Oxide. (b) Urate of Ammonia. (e) Xanthic Oxide. (c) Oxalate of Lime. (f) Phosphate of Ammonia an d Magnesia. From these six substances, which form the nucleus, or the entire bulk of a stone, the various kinds of gravel are also produced. Besides the ten above mentioned constituents, von Walther has also given phos- phate of ammonia and lime, and the acid phosphate of lime (2). Both these substances appear to me doubtful. Not merely is the phosphate of ammonia and lime altogether new as an addition to the constituents of stone, but also new as a combination of phos- phoric acid, for phosphate of ammonia and lime, is not admitted by any chemist. In respect to the acid phosphate of lime, von Walther supposes that it alone is capable of forming concretions, but that on the other hand, the neutral phosphate of lime only occurs in the layers. It is to be regretted that von Walther has not given the careful analysis of Fuchs on this subject; as it is difficult to understand how the acid phosphate oi lime, which is so very soluble, that even in the air it softens into a molten glass-like mass, can form stones. It is important here also to observe that the acid phosphate of nme is not met with in gravel, in which, however, all the other substances are found which are capable of forming the nucleus of a stone. Walther’s assertion that phos- pnate of lime occurs only in the layers, is contradicted by the observations of Wol- Laston (ra), who examined urinary stones which consisted entirely of phosphate of me. I heir surface, he says, is pale brown, and as smooth as if polished; their inte- \ot consists of regular layers, which can easily be separated into concentric plates. -i ar®’ ^cording to Marcet, very rare. Perhaps this contradiction may be conciied by the fact that these are such stones as are formed in the prostate eland frostauc stones of Marcet,) which consist of a neutral phosphate of lime, coloured by tinl/T ]°c °f the PI'ostate> by which, according to Marcet, these stones can be dis- wiP'vl , trU* unnary stones. Or there may perhaps have been a nucleus which c£:r°0keP The carhonate °f Ume (first mentioned by Bergmann, since by the o ftlP’ P,d most JccenUy by von Walther) is found, according to the latter, in annearl tp fta-Cf °f the ,sU)ne. Wlth tlle phosphates, but not in the layers, and it oS °f °v n U0 corabination with the uric acid, the urate of ammonia, and the of limp nr noT' ,Gol?BEE (J) describes a stone which consisted, he says, of carbonate orinPv 'mnoJ’ “S “""P matter Wlth si,ica 3>125- Silica is met ™th but rarely in to IliiL! IS a’wa?s accompanied by uric acid or oxalate of lime. According water and thp r S/ar™ cxists s™a11 quantity in the urine; he derives it from the fibrin of th? i w MfVRCET f°Rnd in one stone a substance corresponding with the Phosphate Prut d {^hntn strfcf Iron ls f°und in combination with uric acid, with C!Vi “taate °f Iim,e’. and as bon ochre. Brugnatelli has found little stones /'nn a fitu0ne> 'ib'ch he describes among the more rare, consisting of bard tXn?1 t,°gCtP'r’ ?f a Srayish colour, with a smell like cantor, light but ■•o, ami containing also phosphate and oxalate of lime. P-39.i. 1797 Transactions, vol. lxxxvii. (/,) In Thommsoorff’s Ncuo Journal do I’liar- made, vol. vi. p. l‘»S.518 URINARY STONE, [(1) Silica and iron cannot be said to be general constituents of stones, as they never \ form an entire stone, and they have only been detected in very minute quantities in i some few instances. (2) By acid phosphate of lime is meant, not the super-phosphate, but the neutral or d di-phosphate of lime, the “ phosphate acidule de cliaux" of Fourcroy. Berzelius has i commented upon the absurdity of the French chemist describing a solid concretion as ( composed of an acid phosphate of lime. His criticism, however, is only partially cor- | rect. The fact is, when the di-phosphate of lime calculus is digested with water, it is j decomposed into an insoluble sub-phosphate, and a soluble super-phosphate, which ol | course possesses an acid reaction. It was from observing this latter fact that led Four- I croy into the error of describing these concretions as composed of a super-phosphate ol ti lime. Di-phosphate of lime constitutes the occidental bezoar, an intestinal concretion l 4 found in the stomach, &c., of the deer of South America (a). (3) “ Calculi, from the human subject, composed entirely of carbonate of lime, are- § of extremely rare occurrence, and have been noticed only by a few authors. The" b existence of such concretions was first pointed out by Brucnatelli (b), who describes j forty-eight small concretions, which were extracted from the bladder of a young maiu I They were each about the size of a pea, possessed a lamellar structure, and broke with r a shining surface. The same author also mentions several ash-coloured calculi com-: posed of carbonate of lime, with a trace of carbonate of iron, that were taken after i death from the bladder of a woman. Dr. Prout (c) has also seen small calculi of this ; salt which were ‘ perfectly white and very friable.’ A remarkable collection of these- culculi is in the possession of R. Smith, of Bristol; * * * “ five were extracted by the lateral operation from the bladder of a boy aged sixteen, by H. Sully, and the others, fifteen in number, were passed by the urethra of the same patient previous to the t operation. The former are exceedingly irregular in figure, their external surface is rough, and is dusted over with a white powder. The largest of these calculi was about the size and figure of a large almond; when sawn through, it did not appear to con- sist of concentric layers, but exhibited irregular waved lines of various shades ol brown, resembling very closely the section of a compact mulberry calculus. It was so extremely hard as to require a lapidary’s wheel to divide it, and the cut surface readily acquired a fine polish. The calculi that were passed by the urethra are about the size of peas, of a rounded figure, with flattened surfaces. They present a compact lamellar-* structure, and their external surface is of a light brown colour” (d).—T. T.] Uric Acid and Urate of Ammonia. 1989. According to the experiments of Prout and L. Gmelin, it b extremely probable that uric acid does not occur, as Wetzlar asserts, combined with soda ; but in combination with ammonia. Also, that the acid property of the urine does not depend on free lactic or acetic acid, but on acid phosphate of ammonia, which salt keeps the phosphate of lime in-' a state of solution (c). That the circumstances stated by Magendie, to wit, the absolutely or relatively increased quantity of uric acid, and dimi- nished temperature of the urine, is the cause of the precipitation of the uric acid, Wetzlar has indeed too confidently denied ; since uric aci , when, from its being in excess, it is free, and not combined with ammonia, must, on account of its insolubility, be disposed to precipitation.. 1 hat the sediment of uric acid in critical urine takes place only when it is cooling* may be readily explained by the ammoniacal state of the urine, which exists in such cases. Perhaps the precipitation of the uric acid is rarely the result of its increased quantity, and rather to be met with i® gravel than in the actual formation of stone ; and the doctrine laid down* by Prout is more commonly correct, namely, that the uric acid is of en precipitated only because another free acid, as the phosphoric, sulphuric^ hydrochloric or carbonic, purpuric or acetic is produced. In consequen (it) Taylor's Catalogue, pari ii. p. 252. (b) Litologia Uinana—Archiv. Con. rte Med. 181'.', vol. iii. p. 444. c) Above cited, p. 93. ,« it) Taylors Catalogue, part i- PP- 1 e) Ileiilelb. Jahtbiicher 1823. r>°-CONSTITUENTS OP. 519 | of this, the ammonia entirely or in part quits the uric acid with which it ; was in combination, and is precipitated pure, or combined with a little c ammonia; but not, as Wetzlar supposes, by the soda being withdrawn. According to Liebig (a), there is produced, by the action of the uric and hippuric in acids upon the phosphate of soda, an acid salt of soda from these acids on the one side, ID- and an acid phospate of soda on the other side. From which, and from the sulphates contained in the urine, he deduces the acid condition of the fluid. 1990. To attribute the development of such an acid in the urine it: from an excess of acidity of the juices, cannot be considered groundless, j$ on account of Magendie’s assertion that acids do not pass into the blood. If we cannot, indeed, prove the presence of free acids in the blood, as it has always an alkaline nature, yet, it is to be remembered, that if even no free acid can be found in the blood, yet from its approxi- mation to a neutral state a change is caused, which renders possible the secretion of free acids through the urine. To this former opinion of Magendie’s, a later one, advanced in an essay read before the Academie des Sciences, on the 18th of September, 1826 (b), stands opposed, where he brings forward the daily use of sorrel, which contains much oxalic acid, -as the exciting cause of almost every stone consisting of pure oxalate of lime. With this, also, IIowship’s (c) observations agree, which show that if a patient, who, on account of phosphatic gravel, has used acids, v take more acid than is necessary to neutralise the alkaline condition of i the urine, and to dissolve the precipitated earthy constituents, the white >v gravel indeed disappears, but red, uric acid gravel is soon produced in its f :stead. Morichini’s (d) experiments also support this view ; he found ^v.that people who have lived long, and almost exclusively upon sour fruit, present citric and malic acid in their urine. But Woehler’s (e) experi- iluments are still more conclusive. It Strong mineral acids are not capable of rendering the urine acid, probably because s their strong affinity for the soda in the blood destroys its combination with the albumen i whereby neutral salts are formed, which pass off as such with the urine. Oxalate of Lime. 1991. Walther doubts whether simple oxalate of lime and the con- u1 necting material can form urinary stones. It is frequently found as the ? nucleus of a stone, though never alone, but combined with uric acid and urate of ammonia. In the layers it is most commonly found with phos- i. phates (/). The inquiries of Rapp, however (,g), and the stone from six a| o seven lines long and two thick, noticed by Magendie, and examined v oy Besprets, which consisted almost entirely of pure oxalate of lime °f the P°ssibility of such a formation ; as well, also, as that • f°rmless sediment, according to Prout, is never combined ! bvith uric acid. I *V92, *!K°UT Sieves that the oxalic acid is produced by the decom- t on of the uric acid, as in urinary stones a nucleus consisting of uric I cm ,s frequently found, surrounded with oxalate of lime ; thus the oxalic (?) Above cited, p. 193. ^pKOR,HeVl? ,M,'aiTOle- 1826, vol. iv. p. 140.- I « 0tlOT' ly2(i. No. 33. ‘ ^mise, l)l J“Cti-Cal ■Tre,l'isc on the Symptoms, B he“ ,,,SCnm,natlon I>'"1 Treatment of some of ler, i he m’„ . V™™'1"" anil I reatment of some of important Complaints that affect the rj sS° vo. Lxcrct,on of »>e Urine. I-ondon, ..,(*0 Meckel’s Arcliiv. fur die Physiologic, vol* in. p. 407. • V£raUche (^en Uebergang von Malerien in non Ilarn j in Tiedemann’s Zeitschr. fiir 1’hy- siologio, u. a. w., vol. i. p. 125. (/) Above* cited, p. 208. (g) Ueber Harnsteino ; in Naturwissenschaftli- chen Abhandluiigen, vol. i. p. 138. Tubingen, 1820URINARY STONE, 520 diathesis follows that of the uric acid, and are allied to each other. He does not, however, suppose that the oxalic acid is in any way pro- duced in the urine by the action of the hydrochloric acid upon the urine ■ but he considers it more probable, that the oxalic acid has been already secreted as such from the diseased parts of the kidneys; this oxalic acid then comes in contact with the uric acid which is secreted by the healthy part of the kidneys, and throws down from it the lime, in a state of oxalate": perhaps at first in a plastic form, as the somewhat crystallized state oi such stones would make us suppose. Walther contradicts this state- ment (a), as the origin of oxalic acid is more easily deduced from the con- version of the benzoic acid, (which is so similar to it,) free carbonic acid, or lactic acid, contained in the urine, than from the uric acid ; for, in oxalic acid, as well as in other vegetable acids, hydrogen and carbon are the oxidizable bases, but the urea is a very azotized production of animal life. Oxalic acid is formed in the urine, not only when the hydrogen is wanting, in order to saturate all the relative excess of oxygen, and to combine with it as water, but also the nitrogen, as the acid which would be otherwise formed would be uric, which is distinguished from the oxalic acid by the quantity of azote. A relative want of hydrogen seems in all cases to be one of the conditions of the formation of stones, whether concretions of uric acid or of oxalate of lime. Liebig, Willis, and Jones have held the conversion of uric into oxalic acid, as the conse- quence of a diminished oxygenation. 1993. Besides the production of oxalic acid by the conversion of the uric acid, its origin from the food must also be admitted. In support of this opinion, it must be observed that various vegetables which serve for food, contain a large quantity of oxalic acid ; that Magendie has noticed the production of a stone of oxalate of lime, after long-continued use of sorrel; that in England, where animal food is the most common diet, stones of oxalate of lime are, in comparison with those of uric acid, more rare, whilst, on the other hand, in those countries where chiefly vegetables are eaten, the oxalic stones are much more frequent, as Rapp has noticed in Wiirtemberg, Walther in Bavaria, and I myself in our own neigh- bourhood. Woehler has, by his experiments, put beyond all doubt the transition of oxalic acid into the urine. 1994. That under the above-mentioned circumstances, which cause the presence of oxalic acid in the urine, the uric acid may also at the same time be diminished, depends on the greater quantity of vegetable food, but is not to be considered a condition for the production of oxalic acid. The ordinary combination of oxalate of lime with uric acid, or urate of am- monia, contradicts this. Wetzlar’s (5) assertion, that mulberry stone is most frequent in childhood, when but little uric acid is contained in the urine, has been disproved by the observations of von Walther, Rapi’, and others (c). 1995. If oxalic acid occur in the urine, on account of its greater affi- nity for lime, it takes the latter from the phosphoric acid. In proportion as the phosphate of ammonia existing in the urine is in a more or less acm state, the phosphoric acid may unite partly with this, and partly with the ammonia combined with the uric acid ; and from these different circum- stances we may explain how the oxalate of lime can be precipitated either Heidrfb. (a) Above cited, p. 219. ( b) Above cited, p. 55. (<?) ('hei.ius, UeberScrotalsteine; in l Med. Aniialen, vol. i. pt. 1.521 CONSTITUENTS OF. »iIone or in combination with uric acid, or urate of ammonia; how the >xalic diathesis is preceded or followed by the uric, and how both dia- ‘heses stand in near relation to each other. These occurrences may also t je explained by deriving the oxalic acid from conversion of the uric acid. Cystin. 1996. Stones of cystic oxide, first discovered by Wollaston, are rare, (A ilthougli Civiale believes that cystic oxide is much more frequently pre- i sent than has been hitherto supposed. They usually consist entirely of a this substance ; whence it has been concluded that the cystic oxide diathesis ■prevents the formation of other stones more than any other diathesis (a). 1,5 Wollaston had seen two stones of cystic oxide covered with a loose v layer of phosphate of lime. Bird (b) has, from chemical examination, ^disproved the assertion that the cystic oxide diathesis is never present ■with other diatheses; the simultaneous presence of the uric acid diathesis oi s proved by cases in which stones of cystin have been observed, where q he patients, either before or after, have passed stones of uric acid. jjFelloly found a stone of cystic oxide, with a nucleus of uric acid, in a ^Lohild, in whom a new stone was formed a year after, which had also a l^nucleus of uric acid, though its exterior consisted of phosphates : a stone !*> )f uric acid had as its nucleus a small portion of cystic oxide (PIenry) ; flui stone of oxalate of lime had been previously removed (Prout) ; Civi- 1 liLE found one stone of cystic oxide in the bladder, and one of phosphates ■minder the prepuce; Lassaigne found a small quantity of phosphate and tfiioxalate of lime combined with cystic oxide (c). ■ 1997. The circumstances under which stones are formed from cystic sbxide have, in reference to the place where they are produced, the greatest ■ Unalogy with those which attend the formation of uric acid and oxalate »H)f lime. They are principally formed in the kidneys, and their origin is jpco be considered as the consequence of a transformation of the urea, or of n he uric acid, to which the cystic oxide is allied by its nitrogenous contents. otA-ccording to the experiments of Thaulow and others, cystic oxide con- ftains, besides carbon, hydrogen, nitrogen, and oxygen, a large quantity of Hiulpliur (C6 N2 H12 O4 S2.) It is a peculiar circumstance, that persons ib)f the same family are affected with stones of cystic oxide, as out of Irwenty-two cases of such stones, ten occurred in four families, in which SviH>metimes two, sometimes three individuals were subject to them, and ! among these, in three, instances, brothers (d). Xanthic Oxide. 1998. The xanthic oxide, uric oxide, first mentioned by Marcet (e) U md more precisely defined by the inquiries of Woeiiler and Liebig ( /'), L incurs very rarely. The earlier opinion that it was nearly allied to, per- iaps only a modification of uric acid, has been confirmed by the observa- | ;10ns of Woeiiler and Liebig, who have proved that it has the same f ' nstltuents as uric acid, but with one atom less of oxygen ; that uric acid t] xanthic oxide are radically the same, but in two different stages of If a 10n -^4 O2-) Xanthic oxide, however, is never found in (/,) Bifv'H Tui'tC<'’ p.77. (,i) Civiale, above cited, p. 608. I (c) Un, , ? “ ReP°rte. vo1- P- 492. (\) Above cited, p. 85-94. | >ou. (/)Poookndorkk's Anniilen, vol.xli. p. 39J. 1637URINARY STONE, 522 solution, nor as a precipitate in the urine ; yet it is probable that it occu in the precipitates from uric acid (a). Besides the stone which Marcet mentioned, and that which Liebig and Woehl i examined, Laugier (/>) has also examined a xanthic oxide stone. Berzelius (c) believes that he has sometimes met with xanthic oxide, or acid gravel. Phosphate of Ammonia and Magnesia. 1999. As the acid property of urine depends on the acid phosphate. ammonia, which salt contains phosphate of lime in solution, it necessaril | follows that every change of the urine, in which alkalescence becoim i prevalent, whereby the acid which holds those earths in solution is new tralized, causes the precipitation of those earths. This applies also to tt s neutral phosphate of lime, if further observations should prove the poss' bility of its forming the nucleus of stone; as also to the combination c phosphate of ammonia and magnesia, and of phosphate of lime, whicr Marcet has described by the name of fusible calculus. Jones (d) divides the phosphate diathesis into true and false; in the former, tl urine, in consequence of the general state of the constitution, becomes alkaline, and th! phosphates are precipitated; in the latter, the alkalescence depends on retention of th urine, or on a diseased secretion of it, which causes a speedy change of the urea, as i- irritation of the mucous membrane of the urethra. Connecting Material. 2000. The connectmg material, animal mucus, exists in gravel, bu specially in all stones, in various quantity, and appears to be subject t< different changes in the several kinds of stones. Upon the presence o this material, many ground the distinction between the formation of stone and the secretion of gravel and sand. Others hold that such connecting material is not. required for the production of stone, inasmuch as the attraction of the individual constituents suffice for its formation. If we reflect that, the inner surface of the urinary organs is naturally overspread with mucus; that in persons troubled with gravel, there is often as great irritation of the urinary passages, as in stone patients, whereby an increased secretion of mucus is caused ; further, that in actual blennorrhocal affections of the mucous membrane of the urinary passages, with copious secretion of viscid mucus, the latter is often mixed with much sand, and yet no stone forms : it follows that the difference between gravel and stone cannot he derived from this connecting material alone. The difference appears for the most part to rest in this; that in the production of gravel and sand, the precipitation of the substances forming them follows quickly, and in large quantity from any great excess of living; whilst in the formation of stone, it is slow but more continuous (e). 2001. According to what has been hitherto said about the production of gravel and urinary stone, it may be attributed to two principal causes, to wit, an increased acidity of the urine from the acid naturally exist- ing in it being secreted in greater quantity, or from a new acid being developed; and, an increased alkalescence. The remote causes may be luxurious living, excess, the use of strong wine, want of exercise, menta exertion, especially after eating, the use of food difficult of digestion, a> Wii.i.is, U., p. 108; and on the contrary (c) Lehrbiich der Cheraie, vol. ix. p.-191- lnvra „ | p■, (rl) Above cited, p. 74. (6) jotirn. de Chimie Med., vol. v. p. 315. 1829. (e) Henrt ; above cited, p. 134.CAUSES OF. 523 ’ leavy, milky diet, sour beer, sour wine, cider; acidity and irregularity of [■, he bowels, the use of vegetables containing oxalic acid, and circumstances Sf iounected with climate, as low marshy districts. To these may be added j, he hereditary disposition, specially observed in gravel. In the same 3i nanner, the relation between gout and certain kinds of stone, is to be 1 explained; as also its more frequent occurrence in certain districts, in iudvanced age, and in the male sex. According to Deschamps (a), the I 'j atter peculiarity is only apparent in women, as on account of the short- ly iess and width of the urethra, little stones readily pass and more rarely if leed the operation; experience, however, refutes this. Stone is as frequent l a children as in advanced age, and in them the production of stone is in ■lose relation with scrofulous and ricketty disposition, and with dis- urbed development of the bony system. Therefore, also, in children, ^/urinary stones contain relatively less uric acid, but on the contrary, .‘more phosphate of lime, and phosphate of ammonia and magnesia, and Jhe contrary proportions occur in the urinary stones of old gouty lersons ([b.) i [The calculi of children consist almost invariably of urate of ammonia. After they » lave caused irritation in the bladder, they become coated with the mixed phosphates, H ike all other concretions.—T. T.] ; 2002. Foreign bodies introduced into the urinary passages, become feovered with a crust of phosphatic salts, or often with some uric acid (1). g The general opinion is that the phosphatic salts of urine arrange themselves h nd form incrustations around the foreign body, according to the same ;f aws by which a foreign body put into a solution of salt, hastens crystal- lization in it. According to Prout, however (c), these incrustations I. -arise because the irritation of a foreign body causes an excess of phosphatic ij -alts to be produced ; or because the foreign body enters the bladder at a time r when the urine there is disposed to incrustation from excess of phosphates. ' Auch foreign bodies as serve for the nuclei of these incrustations pass iodther through the urethra into the bladder (2), or through wounds (3), or 5 .hey are swallowed and penetrate through the intestinal canal into the iddadder (4). Blood, sloughs, and the like may also be the nuclei of stones $rhis is indeed doubted by von Walther, but there are stones which ■Jiave cavities within them, and it is probable that the mucus of the bladder |j’r a similar albuminous animal substance had, at an early period, filled it* f -nd in the course of several years had dried up. Deny’s {d) experience *-Iso appears to agree with this view. But Walther’s opinion is most decidedly contradicted by Lisfranc’s (e) observation ; he found in an ■innary stone, as big as the fist, a blackish nucleus of slight consistence rf'™h. resembled a clot of blood, and on chemical examination, presented ! ■hhT™y substance (5). One of the just-named animal substances may ' 'so be deposited on the nucleus of a stone, over it again a stony mass, so , ’ it m such stones the enclosed animal substance be dried by time * he nucleus no longer appears to fill up the cavity, and when shaken, it («) Traitd Historique et dogmatique de l'Opi M-ion de la Taille, vof. iv. 1 P LW Walthkh; above cited.—Yei.i.oi.v, ] the tomlcncy to Calculous Disens w .•>Servatl0ns on the Nature of Urin wet S and an Analysis, &c.; in PI hrl 1i-,.P'>'”'7,K,ch,,,sch’ Ueber r-ithi. lodenlrt^i-ui® ,,eKr"nd»ng in zoologiscl •odenverbaltnisscn und ihr Zusammenliang , Ausbildung des Scelet-Systems ; in Med. Corre- spondenzblatt bayerischer Aer/.te. 1843.- Textoh Ournin, Versuch idler das Vorkommen der Harn- steine in Ostfranken. Wurzburg, 1843. (e) Above cited, p. 181. (d) De Calculo, p. 14. (e) Archives generales de Medecine, 1327, vol. i. p. 1 .URINARY STONE, (d) Lectures, above cited, p.245. (e) Taylor s Catalogue, pari i. p. 129. moves and rattles. Two examples in my collection of urinary stone 1 prove this (a). Cruvelheer (b) showed, in the Anatomical Society at Paris, a very large urinar i stone, of which the nucleus was originally a clot of blood. [ C1) The circumstance of a foreign body in the bladder becoming coated by uric aci 4 is exceedingly rare. There is only one specimen of the kind in the Museum of the Roy! I College of Surgeons. It has a splendid piece of steel for its nucleus, A 126.—T. T. _(2) The quickness with which catheters, especially those of elastic gum are coate « with earthy deposits after remaining constantly in the bladder for three or four days, > 1 known to every one who has had the least experience. Upon this account, it becomt I necessary when a catheter is constantly worn, that if elastic, it should be replaced by J new one, or if of silver or other metal, should be withdrawn, cleaned, and returned ever j four or six days, otherwise the deposit upon that part of it in the bladder becomes s I considerable, that it will often be removed with difficulty, and almost always scrape th Q urethra as it is withdrawn, and add much to the patient’s uneasiness. There are feV-.'l Museums which have not specimens of extraneous bodies introduced into the bladder' which have become nuclei of stones. In the College Museum, there are examples of ; silver bodkin, of a sewing needle, of a pea, a hat-pin, a bougie, a piece of bone, &c. There are also two instances in which soap has formed the nucleus. It is probable ffia. i in these cases “ a solution of soap had been injected into the bladder ; mutual decom i position of the soap and the salts of urine has been the necessary result; the alkali ofthr former uniting with and forming soluble compounds with the phosphoric and other acid:, of the urine, while the earthy bases of the urine have precipitated, in combination wit! the fatty acids of the soap, in the form of a semi-gelatinous sparingly soluble compound.. being in fact an earthy soap, consisting of margarate and oleate of lime” (c). In the Museum at St. Thomas’s, there is a stone having a large piece of brass nail as its nucleus And another stone of good size, and about an ounce in weight, which had formed nearly on the middle of a female catheter, that had escaped from the fingers of the Surgeon,- whilst drawing off the water, who, fearful of getting into trouble, said nothing about the. accident. Some months after, the woman had symptoms of stone, and was cut by Astley Cooper ; the catheter lay across the bladder, and its ends were pretty tightly fixed; but one end having been freed by introducing the finger, it was easily withdrawn.- Brodie (d) mentions a hazel nut as forming the nucleus of a stone in a female; and in another case, a man occasionally subject to retention of urine “ passed a flower stalk through the urethra into the bladder, using it as a bougie. In an evil hour, the j extremity of the flower stalk,was broken off, it became incrusted with calculous matter i forming the nucleus of a stone,” for which he was operated on by Evetiard Home. He also mentions some small oblong stones from a female bladder, “ each of which has a small fine hair running longitudinally through its centre.” (3) In St. Thomas’s Museum there is a beautiful example of a pin forming the nucleus of an oblong stone. The child, a male infant, had been put upon the floor by his nurse, and immediately began to scream violently, and without any apparent cause. Some months after he had symptoms of stone in the bladder, for which he was cut by Astj.ey Cooper, and this stone removed. Foreign bodies of such size are sometimes i pushed up into the vagina, and slip beyond reach of the patient, who, being ashamed of making her condition known at the time when she might he relieved, the foreign body remains fixed, and will produce ulceration of that part of the bladder against which it j presses, and incontinence of urine; at the same time also it becomes more or less j covered with calcareous deposit. The College Museum has a remarkable instance of this kind, II. a. 13. “A tumbler in an entire state wTas introduced into the vagina of an j unmarried female, about twenty years of age. On her attempting to withdraw it, its 1 upper edge was broken, by which the bladder was wounded, and incontinence of urine produced. In this situation it remained for nearly two years, when it was removed by ] Mr. Anthony White, who, finding the tumbler to be closely embraced by the vagina- i and quite immovable, broke away the sides of the glass with instruments having notches, I filed at their extremities like the wards of a key, until he was enabled to introduce a - lever behind it. * * * A large horizontal slit was found in the bladder immediately • above its cervix” (e). My friend Arnott tells me of a woman, about forty-two years of age, admitted into the Middlesex Hospital with presumed disease of the uterus, and with incontinence of urine. On examination, a gallipot was found in the vagina, mouth («) Eook.kt, Vcralic.il. die Entsteliung dcs (ft) Behrend’s Allgcmeincs Repertorimn. p. 7»- Blase nsteines zh cri-rtern; in Rust's Magar.in, ltt'3, Oct. vol. xiii. pt. iii. p. 367. (r) Taylor’s Catalogue, part i. p. 129.525 DIVISION OF. m downwards, and coated inside and out with what proved to be triple phosphate. An I attempt was made to extract it whole by the application of large-bladed stone-forceps, I hut the pot was so closely impacted by the swelling of the external parts, that only one 4 blade could be introduced. It was therefore broken with strong forceps, and removed i piecemeal with difficulty. The finger being then introduced into the vagina, a large j| aperture was found into the bladder, in which was a large stone. As she was much jffi exhausted, the removal of the stone was deferred for a few days, and then removed by 1 enlarging the aperture. In the course of a few weeks she was able to retain four ii ounces of urine in the bladder which she had not been able to do for many years. (4) In the College Museum is an example, H. a. 14, of a pin, which had been swal- !,] lowed five years, forming the nucleus of stone in a young man of twenty-two years of I jge, which had caused symptoms only the latter two years. It was removed by the Wf lithotritic operation. >’ (5) Astley Cooper mentions a case in which, having removed a triple phosphate stone, in1 the disease returned, and he again performed the operation, and found a large coagu- iumof blood in the bladder surrounded by a triple phosphate deposit” (a). In the ^'College Museum there is a stone II. a. 7, “ consisting of uric acid, deposited upon a W* hollow crust or shell of impure oxalate of lime. This crust was most probably formed ii upon a clot of blood, which has afterwards shrunk” (6).] 2003. Urinary stones are divided according to their situation, the mode Kiiin which they arise in the urinary passages, according to their external ^differences, and according to their chemical composition. 2004. According to the situation where they are found stones are dis- Btinguished as— a. Renal Stones Calculi renales Nierensteine. Vl TTvoiOMn yi/j /I W/V/»i/n 7/m / /vhm ;; cavity, or are connected with them. 2005. The external characters of stones are very different, and a divi- t cion founded upon sucli difference is only so far of value as it gives some- ft :imes a clue to their internal chemical composition. Their structure is aimore or less solid, granular, sandy, chalk-like, crystallized, friable, fjjorittle ; their surface is smooth, tubercular, mulberry-like ; their interior (Jipompact, homogeneous, laminated, consisting of various layers. The 11 ayers usually show mixed and varied colours, as gray, white, reddish- ®|fellow, brown, black, violet, and so on. The middle or nucleus (Kern, ■perm.; Noyau, Fr.) of the stone is formed either of a foreign body or l|oonsists of one of the substances already mentioned {par. 1988.) ktones composed of uric acid have a brownish or yellowish colour, a O.miooth, but sometimes tubercular surface, a radiated fibrous fracture, f,<ind mostly an oval or flattened form ; when cut through, they are gene- rally found made up of concentric layers. 14 tones formed of urate oj ammonia have nearly the same figure as 1 . ose of uric acid, but have a milk and coffee colour; they are composed ) concentric layers; their fracture is very close and similar to that of a > fiiard chalk stone. I Midberry stones, however complicated they may be, contain in their v;nucleus or in their layers oxalate of lime (1). Their colour is dark brown, Kipproacliing to black; they are hard, when cut through present an im- jy cr ectly lamellated structure ; they rarely exceed a moderate size. If in I 00 Surgical Lectures, vol. ii. p. 242. (6) Taylor's Catalogue, part i. p. 65.526 URINARY STONE, these stones there be not this irregular surface, the cause seems to be th U simultaneous existence of several stones, and their consequent friction («) j | Marcet’s hempseed stones are smooth, contain oxalate of lime (2), am t| are pale coloured. Stones consisting of the earthy phosphates have a white or grayish-whit a colour, are friable, and brittle, and only in rare cases hard and compact J and when broken they present a crystalline and more or less transparent .4 structure. The stone consisting of phosphate of lime has mostly a pale-brown >1 colour, is smooth as if polished ; its structure consists of regular plates iS which are striped perpendicularly to their surface; it is rare, and seldon: 4 attains moderate size (b). The stone, consisting of a mixture of phosphate of lime and phosphatv'iM of ammonia and magnesia { fusible stone) is usually white and very friable It resembles a lump of chalk, and leaves a whitish stain on the fingers - it is in general not laminated, but sometimes separates into layers, the interspaces of which are often filled with glittering crystals. Those which have no layers often attain considerable size. The cystic oxide stones are usually crystallized throughout, yellowish, i semi-transparent, iridescent; if examined with a lens, an irregular group- ing of granules is observed, which, in large stones, are separated by inter- I spaces ; this, according to Civiaee, seems to prove that the cystin is no( deposited on its nucleus in a fluid form, and this appears from the struc- ture of the stone, which, at least in its pure state, is wrinkled like shagreen. These stones are usually small, and do not exceed the middle d size. Civiale has, however seen three stones of this sort of considerable J size (3). When cystic oxide is combined with other substances, for in- stance, with earthy substances, the stones appear to be so modified by the nature of their combination and the proportions of their constitu- ents, that there is great uncertainty about the nature of the stone. Stones of xanthic oxide have a pale-brown, smooth, glossy, in part i whitish, soft and earthy surface ; when broken they have a brown flesh- i colour. They are made up of concentric and easily separable layers, and have not any crystalline or fibrous structure. By rubbing they become smooth, with a wax-like gloss, and have nearly the same hardness as stones: i of uric acid. Those stones which contain carbonate of lime are of a chalky colour, hard, and friable. Smith (c) has described stones of this kind, which closely resemble mulberry stones. Urinary stones sometimes smell of urine; in sawing them through some have a peculiar animal odour, resembling sawn bone or musk ; many have no smell at all; a few have a distinct and well-marked flavour. '1 heir size is very various ; it appears, however, in some degree relative to their composition. Their shape depends on the place in which they are found, and partly on their number (4). [(1) Several mulberry stones have a lindens of uric acid. j (2) Hempseed calculi consist either of oxalate or of urate of lime, either pure or mixed with urate of ammonia. . . . ,f (3) A cystic oxide stone found in the Museum of St. Eartholcmew s Hospital, nan (a) Mabtbkb, Sur <les Concretions d’Oxnlnte tin Clioux, qui ne sont pas murales; in Annales de Cliimie etde Physique, vol. vi. p. 220. (/)) See p«r. 1988 (note.) (c) Medico-Chinirg. Trans., vol. xi. P-DIVISION OF. 527 of which is now in the College Museum, weighed, when entire, 740 grains. Another specimen, in the Museum of University College, (London,) weighed 850 grains. (4) Only three xanthic oxide stones have ever been seen :—Marcet’h, which weighed m only eight grains; Langenbeck’s, about the size of a small hen’s egg, first examined I; by Stkomeyeu, and afterwards by Liebig and Wohler ; and that described by Lau- GIEK.-T. T.] 2006. The division of stones according to their chemical composition 1 has been arranged in various ways by Fourcroy, Brande, Thomson, , Wollaston, Marcet, Yelloly, and Taylor, and the grounds upon i’ which this division has been founded are either the simple or compound nature of the stone, or the prevalence of one or other substance. It seems most convenient to divide urinary stones according to the princi- ples laid down by von Walther, who gives the acids entering into their composition as their distinguishing characteristics. 2007. According to these principles may be distinguished :— First, Urinary incrustations offoreign bodies. These consist of phos- phates. often also with some uric acid. Second, Urinary concretions without foreign bodies. a. Stones of pure uric acid or urate of ammonia. These are soluble in the fixed alkalies, with or without giving off ammonia. b. Stones which contain oxalate of lime. This is found in the nucleus either pure or commonly combined with urate of ammonia, most com- monly in the interspaces between the nucleus and the crust, which latter usually consists of phosphates. Sometimes they contain a little silica in v state which is still questionable. They are insoluble in alkalies, and soluble with difficulty in dilute acids. c. Stones consisting of cystic oxide, sometimes covered with a crust of ahosphate of lime. A piece of cystic oxide placed upon ignited charcoal b pves out a garlicky or phosphoric smell; on a platina plate, heated to •redness, its sulphur blackens the plate to the extent of some lines. d. Stones of xanthic oxide, soluble in hydrochloric acid, althouo-h witli nore difficulty than uric acid, without the least development of gas, form ifter evaporation, a lemon-coloured residuum, which dissolves in water vith a pale yellow colour. e. Stones consisting of phosphoric acid in combination, so as to produce meutral salts, either of phosphate of lime or phosphate of ammonia and M' simply or combined, with phosphate of lime; or they have a nucleus of uric acid or urate of ammonia, and the crust consists of phos- 1 lllates-,' or of these and alternating layers of uric acid. f. Stones containing carbonate of lime. These have a nucleus of urate l 'L^cTwirLds! Carb0'iate °f Hme iS “ixed withphosphates. They f 2?°8'- The frequency of the different hinds of stones varies according ’ tel* ZCUmStanCGS °f Clima?’ mode of life> and so on. The uric acid nes, however, occur most frequently, so that, according to Prout I ^°f t,’e. ""Uole number. To this may be added, that Sahara dT» TT.V""" “le nucleus aroulld wMch other Rethinks Oy f; so tliat lts frequency may perhaps be estimated at ff he phosphates.0 dte °* t0 Uri° acid’ and then follo'v composing stones be reviewed, they may be divided into F. "f^„x^roni,i 3- of iime 14- ***• °n]m-528 URINARY STONE ; Double. 1. uric acid and phosphates; 2. uric acid and oxalate of lime; 3. urate . ! * ammonia and phosphate of ammonia and magnesia; 4. phosphate of lime and pho ; phate of ammonia and magnesia. Triple. 1. uric acid and both phosphates ; 2. urate of ammonia and both phosphate. Sr 3. oxalate of lime, with uric acid or urate of ammonia and phosphates; 4. carbonate < lime, with phosphate of lime and iron. Quadruple. 1. uric acid, with oxalate of lime and phosphates; 2. uric acid, wit; , urate of ammonia, silica, and a phosphate. Quintuple. Uric acid, with urate of ammonia, oxalate of lime, and phosphates. [.Amorphous Urinary Sediments. The deposits from the urine, either as mere sediments without form, or in a state el crystallization, as gravel, are of so great importance, both as regards themselves, an. a in reference to the production of stone, that I have taken the liberty of supplying tbtj] deficiency of the special consideration of the subject of urinary sediments in Chelics^J work by the following extracts from the excellent work of Dr. Pkout. _ “ Litliic or Uric Acid Sediments. These sediments assume at different times very di ferent appearances, especially in point of colour; and they occur at different times, and i different persons, of almost every shade of colour, from nearly perfectly white to dee, mahogany brownish red. * * * I shall consider them under three heads only, whic will be found quite sufficient for all practical purposes, namely -.first, yellow sediments second, red or lateritious sediments; and third, pink sediments. “1 Yellow Sediments. These sediments vary m colour, from nearly white to th wood-krown of Werner, a colour which is stated to be identical with that of np hazel nuts They consist essentially of the lithate (urate) of ammonia, tinged wit: the colouring principle of the urine, but usually contain more or less of the phosphate and sometimes a little of the lithate (urate) of soda In general, perhaps, the neare- they approach to white, the more of the phosphates they contain; but there are man; exceptions to this, and I have seen sediments belonging to this class almost pofflL white, and consisting of nearly pure lithate (urate) of ammonia This class of sediment may be termed the sediments of health, if the term may be allowed, being such as ar. produced in the urine of healthy or slightly dyspeptic individuals, byerrorsofd. and all the other circumstances before mentioned which seem, independently of actua fever, to procure turbid urine. Perhaps there is no healthy individual whose urn does not occasionally deposit this species of sediment. * * When the^ ^unent^ are of an unusually pale colour, as is sometimes the case, a tendency to the phosphau is indicated Children are very subject to this form of sediment; and in them, as e as in all who labour under such a susceptibility, it is frequently the forerunner o gravel or calculus. Indeed nothing is more common than for this fo™ of sediment U alternate in the urine of the same person with the crystallized sediment, or graid, ^TaterUious Sediments. These sediments vary in tint from_ nearly white in which state they are with difficulty distinguished from the last variety, to a aeej brick-red or hrown. They consist essentially of the lithate (urate) of ammo . lithate (urate) of soda, tinged with a large proportion of the colouring principle urine, and more or less of the purpurates of ammonia and soda, -omit n . they contain a small proportion of the earthy phosphates. In general, the dltPl tint, and the more approaching to brick red, the more of the lithate (urate) an P^JT^ rate of soda they contain ; but there are some exceptions to this observ atiou. » ^ the purpurates exist in the urine, (indicating, as was formerly attempted to be sh ^ the secretion by the kidney of nitric acid,) lever.sh, or inflammatory cti constantly indicated; and this law is so general, that I have never seen a,hc cention * * * They owe their peculiarity of tint to the colouring matter of urine, which, in common with all its other principles, appears on such occa*1011* if secreted more copiously than usual. Hence urine which deposits the^sedmirott u usually of a deep red or hrown colour, and of high specific gravity. The i orai colourof the sediment, and the more approaching tored, the more ?e™rV£ftemnia- cvnlIltonis. * * * The urine of all persons labouring under feverish and , tory affections, and whose urine is naturally healthy, is liable to deposit^h'sfsl*£imcn, sediment * * * There are certain diseases, also, in which this variety of s ^ appears to occur in a greater degree, and in a more decided form than usual, The third and most rare variety of amorphous sediments is what529 AMORPHOUS URINARY SEDIMENTS. is usually denominated pink sediments, the colour of which is very aptly expressed by the term pink. Like the other varieties, they consist essentially of the lithate (urate) of ammonia; but they differ from both these, in being almost entirely devoid of the yellow tint derived from the colouring matter of the urine; and consequently, in owing their colour chiefly to the purpurate of ammonia. This class of sediments, there- fore appears to indicate the absence of the large proportion of the colouring principle of the urine, so constantly present in active inflammatory fever, and to denote the secre- tion of a greater quantity of nitric acid, and the consequent formation of more of the purpurate of ammonia. * * * The most perfect specimens of this kind of sediment which I have ever seen, were obtained from the urine of dropsical individuals : they occur also occasionally in the urine of the hectic, and of those obviously labouring under certain chronic visceral affections, especially of the liver.” (p. 121-25.) “Besides these amorphous sediments, consisting chiefly of lithie(uric) acid, I have seen two or three instances in which large quantities of perfectly white lithate »; (urate) of soda were deposited from the urine. In one case, in particular, the quantity ■ was immense, and voided not only mixed with the urine, but in a state of consistency like mortar, especially during the night, so as to produce considerable difficulty in pass- ing the urine. The urine was acid.” (pp. 127, 28.) Phosphatic sediments. “ The phosphates, like the lithates, (urates,)” says Prout “appear in the urine under two distinct forms, viz., in an amorphous state, and in the crystallized form; but here the analogy ceases, for in the case of the lithates, | I (urates,) the amorphous form is of comparatively the least consequence, whereas ; when the phosphates are concerned, the amorphous sediment is by far the most < important, and the crystallized form is usually of a much milder character.” On .! s this account Prout considers “ the crystallized form, in the first place, as a preliminary 0 step to the more formidable disease.” (p. 174.) It will be more convenient, however, | | for our present, purpose, to reverse his arrangement, and first to notice the amor- ■ 1 phosphatic sediments. “ These sediments consist invariably,” says Prout, of a mixture of the phosphate of lime, and of the triple phosphate of magnesia and ammonia. [(Vote.—I am aware that it is the opinion of many eminent cha- racters, that the inner coat of the bladder is the source of the earthy matters de- > posited by the urine on these occasions. I do not deny this altogether; but, on the I contrary, think that the phosphate of lime, at least, is sometimes derived from this ; source the inner coat of the bladder apparently assuming, in such instances, the tbe inner surface of the abscess sometimes found in the prostate gland, Ifwiuch is known to secrete this earthy salt in great abundance. I am doubtful, how- |'*7er’any portion of the triple phosphate is ever derived from this source, but from ■ <tne kidney only, from which same source, in various cases, a large proportion of the i; phosphate of lime is likewise undoubtedly derived.]—The proportions of the two ■ salts vary very mnch in different instances; but, sometimes, the phosphate of lime J! seems to constitute by far the greater proportion, and, in this case, the symptoms are 1 iw"Iun £ nluch more decided and severe; and it is to this form of the disease | e ^Rowing observations are to be understood as chiefly applicable. A de- ?po 1 on of the earthy phosphates from the urine has been long observed to be attended I Vha dl?tn:ssing symptoms, though no one seems to have hitherto generalized them. * cic!J COnS1St 1,1 g*'eat irritability of the system, and derangement of the chylopoietic V1 general; such as flatulency and nausea, obstinate costiveness, or peculiarly £ d}arrh(B“’ or both, frequently alternating; and the stools are extremely * Hipc, * ’ keino either nearly black, or clay-coloured, or sometimes like yeast. lorwlw accompanied by more or less of a sensation of pain, uneasiness, » enance tss’ ln tbe back and loins. There is a sallow, haggard expression of coun- I K the dlsease Proceeds, symptoms somewhat analogous to those of S >f th(. i„„ce^In t0i aPPear’ 7sucb as great languor and depression of spirits, coldness V- li sense » complete anaphrodisia, and other symptoms of extreme debility : and the 1 WME Specd,ly che?b('d’ f emf capable of ending fatally. The urfne in this H luantitv I® ln.var'ab|y Pale-coloured, and, upon the whole, voided in greater BrSe\tdZtUraL i Sometimes (generally, I think, by day) it is voided in very I or examnlp d Af \RIld’ th'S- C-aSP’ ■’? °f Very low sPecific gravity; 1-001 or 1-002, ■example. At other times, it is en uu.a i,.— .. BD- or examnip i, .7 ’.. specinc gravity; ruoi or T002, Kiroportionallv hio-be ( r.1tl,rr^S.’ 11 '8 voided in less quantity, and its specific gravity is former case it U 'S /eldom high, that is, surpassing 1-025. In the Bnent- in the lott & . erally perfectly pellucid, and colourless, and deposits no sedi- Hora areater nr lolc ls ■S<|>nie*imes opaque when passed, and always, after standing Yo i. t [ time, deposits a most copious precipitate of the mixed phosphates, M530 GRAVEL; in the state of an impalpable powder. In all cases the urine is extremely prone t ; r decomposition, becomes alkaline by the evolution of ammonia, and emits a mot disgusting smell. _ “ With respect to the causes of this complaint, they may be either general or local; fb the most part, however, they seem to partake of both characters. A large proportion < those cases which have come under my own observation, has been distinctly traced t some injury of the hack. This injury has been of a character not very capable of bein I understood or described ; but perhaps some idea of it may be acquired by my statiiq .1 that for the most part it has arisen from a fall from a horse, in which the person La i received a violent general concussion of the spine, and often at the same time some Iocs-, jj injury about the back, but not of such a nature as to confine him long, or to lead him 1 ;j think that he has received any material injury; and generally it has been quite forgoUe 3 till the patient’s attention has been called to the subject. Among the general exeitin 9 causes may be also mentioned severe and protracted debilitating passions, excessiv 1 fatigue, &c. The local causes are generally some irritation about the bladder, or trr.J thru, especially when operating constantly for a considerable length of time ; as, fo example, any foreign substance introduced into the bladder, and producing irritation t 1 that organ, including all sorts of calculi under certain circumstances; the retaining of bougie or catheter in the urethra ; strictures of the urethra in some rare cases, and i: 1 particular constitutions; all which, and many other similar causes, are capable 0 producing, in a greater or less degree, a condition of the urine more or less lesemblin that above described, and readily depositing the phosphates. Thus it has been Ion; known that any foreign substance introduced into the bladder almost invariably become < incrusted with the phosphates, and not the lithic (uric) acid. With respect to th 1 proximate cause of this form of disease, we may suppose it to consist in a diminished oip suspended action of the usual acidifying powers of the kidneys, and the formation, instea* of lithic (uric) acid, of a greater quantity of alkaline matter than natural, as ura (equivalent to ammonia,) and particularly of magnesia and lime; but this being lira: more than a simple expression of obvious facts, of course throws no light upon the unif mediate cause of these depraved actions.” (p. 177-82.) • “ Oxalate of lime very rarely, if ever, appears alone under the form of an amorpbou sediment. In some instances, it occurs with the lithic (uric) amorphous sediments; oil.; even this is not very common.” (p. 153.) _ . ... , Cystic oxide. Pkout had the opportunity of examining the urine of a man ot mini* years old, who had passed a stone of pure cystic oxide. He found it had “ a yellowisr green colour, and strong peculiar smell. It very faintly reddened litmus paper, and it specific gravity was 1,022. There was a slight deposition on standing for some tuMj consisting of a mixture of the cystic oxide with a little ot the triple phosphate. con. siderable proportion of the cystic oxide was precipitated from the urine on the adamoi of acetic acid, which of course held at the same time the phosphates in solunou. ^The 'treatment of these several kinds of sediments will be considered in speaking 0. the treatment of the various kinds of gravel.] I.—OF GRAVEL. (Sahulum, Arena, Lat.; Grics, Germ.; Gravelle, ou Gravier, Fr.) 2009. The term gravel is applied to sand, or small crystallized stones, of different colour, form, and number, which are voided with the n™iej It consists usually of uric acid, or urate of ammonia, when it is redflis* or of oxalate of lime, when it has a dark blackish green ; or of phospM 1 of ammonia and magnesia, where it is whitish; or of cystic oxide, w en it has a bright yellow colour. Crystalline deposits, of different kinds, are never met with, at the same ” the same urine, although, not unfrequently, accompanied with formless ana aus SC<Maoendie (6) notices a peculiar kind of gravel, in which the sediment urine consists sometimes of a small quantity of white powder, with a great nu ^ small hairs, the length of which varies from two lines to an u!c1.'a’'„"'L crashed times it is whitish, irregular, and of so little consistence, that it may (n) Pkout, above cited, p. 85. (6) Revue Medicate, lS2(i. vol. iv. p. HO. £SYMPTOMS. 531 l between the fingers, without the fragments, which are connected by the little hairs, being separated; but they remain hanging together in a sort of cluster. >. These hairs can be separated only by maceration. Magendie cabs this hairy i- gravel (aravelle pile use) ; it consists of phosphate of lime, and some magnesia, and ion uric acid. Gueranger (e) speaks of a gravel composed of silica. In reference to xanthic oxide gravel, see par 1998. 2010. The symptoms of gravel are very various; sometimes it causes ■ little or no inconvenience ; often only in making water : frequently it is ,i. accompanied with pain or weight in the loins ; the kidneys, ureters, bladder, i and urethra may be, however, severely irritated; and suppression of ^ urine, inflammation, and fever, may result from it. In most cases it is 8< accompanied with disturbance of the digestive organs, acidity of the 3i stomach, flatulence, and the like. Patients labouring under this disease n frequently complain of heat and dryness in the throat and gullet, and are | therefore constantly hawking and spitting. The complaint is often accom- 6 panied with organic disease of the kidneys, or of the urinary passages. The general health and appearance will often remain good for a lon°- • 'vhile with deposits of uric acid (1) : but phosphatic gravel is always ac- iqicoinpanied with symptoms of increased sensibility and irritability, general v weakness, disturbed digestion, and unhealthy pale countenance. In I phosphatic gravel, the urine is most generally pale, after standing some i time a glistening film is formed on its surface, which consists chiefly of ^phosphates; little crystals often attach themselves to the vessel. The fti -pecific gravity of the urine is often very much altered ; and it very Readily becomes putrid (2). ' Jh!s foPn of sediment (crystallized uric acid) varies considerably,” says I °UT’, lts c?lour and appearance, according to circumstances. When unaccom- I lamed by fever its colour is always identical with the deeper tints of that of the first u jellow) class of amorphous sediments before described. When it is accompanied by !. ever, it is generally more or less of a red or lateritious colour. I have never seen this orm ot sediment of a pink colour, and, for obvious reasons, it is not likely that such feSiTd mVW d -ta>ke P aCC- Sometimes large quantities of impure or imperfectly tSe from a •(>nu) aw 18 7°lde,d by °,ld Pe°P,e in the shaPe of globules, varying I , ® .e ,.m a, Pms head to that of small peas: these are generally pale-coloured "" ccasionally, also, when the kidney is diseased, large irregular masses o/this acid in IrreZfT Statt; ^ J°ided- ■ * * * Children, in general, and partfcularly^he chil- t -re ?.aiD,d g°U-y lndlvklua]s> or who inherit a tendency to urinary diseases re exceedingly liable to lithic acid deposits in the urine. * * * if the chfldho |Stdfl therf.fWlU be/0und t0 be a Wmnt desire to pass urine, which is voided in •"ans 7iiqfan !; and7Vlth manlte'st uneasiness. The irritation about the urinary /tu/ a s? fre(luently induces the child to wet the bed by night &c * * * ^ fSr&JK disposition ‘ormationoflithic (uric acid deposits than at any other period of life. Institution rf of forty’ an lmP01’tant change commonly takes place in the S U the urine Uwiltw m°S ,part ^/ially influences the deposition of lithic acid ted it , be generally now observed that the lithic acid is apt to be deuo- J «urrenc?XreTs morfoXTffi^ “d.t?lat for some time Previously to this i kalth: ‘“disposition and derangement of the general i xive periods narticulirlv to ' ’ t,!‘eri;.‘f.a d,sP°sitiqn in the constitution, at the f ving origin to the format; eparate tke ktlllc (“nc) acid in a concrete state, thus ' sixVrev^%f=^„0f renal * * * .Frequently about the age >:parated from the system At thfc akt’S ? r*n \be m?de *n which the lithic acid is ' ; rticipate in the nenenl llo * i’? Period 9f ll.fe ,lle urinary organs not only begin to i ■■nilarmanne,fromnth™ 7 7 const,tut!on- but a>'e apt to be deranged in a par- {' early life Freouentlv oi aDf more Partlcu^arly to suffer from the delinquencies 1 requently, also, they become organically diseased, and this circumstance, («) Journal do Chimie Medicate, vol. vi. p. J29. 1930. 2 m 2532 CONSTITUENTS OF GRAVEL. in conjunction perhaps with others that will be noticed hereafter, produces a dispositic in the system to secrete neutral urine, or even the earthy phosphates. Under the; circumstances, where the urine had previously for years deposited the lithic(uric) aci chiefly in the state of crystals, these will in a great measure disappear, and instea of them, impure or imperfect lithic acid, in the shape of minute globules of varioi sizes, will be separated from the kidneys in great abundance. In most of these ease-t there is a good deal of pain in the back, and irritation about the urinary organs, eve when the concretions are only of small size. In others, there is much less irritatic under these circumstances than one could imagine. In all instances, however, this ms be considered as a most dangerous state of disease, not only from the constant llabUit of the patient to the formation of renal or vesical calculi, which all other cireuu: stances likewise conspire to render probable. But, on the other hand, from the dange there is of suddenly checking the secretion of lithic (uric) acid, which is sometime followed by great derangement of the general health, and apoplexy.” (p. 130-35.) (2) “ Crystallized sediments, composed of the phosphates, almost invariably consists says Prout, “ of the triple phosphate of magnesia and ammonia, and exist in the fori of perfectly white shining crystals.—[Note.—I have said almost invariably; for, if am not mistaken, I have once or twice seen a crystallized compound of the triph phosphate of magnesia and ammonia, and the phosphate of lime. These crystals wei much larger than those of the triple phosphate, and less distinctly formed.]—This fon of disease sometimes occurs alone, but very frequently it alternates, or is accompanie by the pale-coloured lithic (uric) amorphous sediments, or the amorphous variety (I phospliatic sediment.” When the triple phosphate of magnesia and ammonia “abound very much, the crystallized deposit is formed before the urine is discharged from th bladder, and consequently immediately subsides to the bottom of the vessel in which is passed ; in this case, the urine is alkaline when voided: most generally, however, tk crystals do not begin to form till the urine has become cool and sometimes not till it hr begun to putrify : and these circumstanceo indicating the periods when the urine becumt alkaline, may be considered as pointing out the degree of severity of the disease. * * * . maybe also remarked that children are more subject to this form of deposit than adults' • . 1 i - 1 C ,1 x. „ ll 1 i.. ! 1 I i- (if flllU O iro Oil a circumstance perhaps to be referred to the irritability of the system at this age, an i digestive organs to which they are subject.” (p. 174-77.) the great derangement of the „ „ ... Oxalate of Lime. “ Its appearance is still more rare,” says Prout, “under the fon of crystallized gravel,” thau under that of an amorphous sediment. “ I have only see one instance of this, and am able to refer to one more. Brande states, also, that in th diathesis there is little or no sand or gravel voided.” (p. 153.) _ _ Although oxalate of lime can scarcely be said to form gravel, yet it is very m quently deposited from the urine in the form of small -flattened octohedral-shape- crystals. Indeed, as far as my own observation goes, there are very few cases c habitual disorder of the digestive functions, in which this salt cannot be detected in th urine, either alone, or as is most commonly the case, accompanied by uric acid and ur&j3 of ammonia. Persons in whom this diathesis prevails are usually of a spare Mbit with a pale countenance, and have more or less nervousness of manner about their They usually complain of a feeling of languor, and disinclination to mental or bodilp exertion, pain in the loins, and uneasiness and weight, if not of pain, in the region ( the stomach, particularly after eating; palpitation of the heart, and a capnciomi sometimes an inordinate, appetite, although a small quantity of food produces oppref sion with nausea. In general they suffer from acidity of the stomach, and are subjeo to itching and tingling of the skin, boils, and cutaneous eruptions, particularly of th scaly kind. Their urine is generally acid when first passed, and perfectly bright; o cooling, it becomes more or less turbid, from the deposit of urate of ammonia, with cry* tals of uric acid and oxalate of lime. Sometimes no deposit of urate of ammonia occur the urine remains perfectly clear ; but crystals of oxalate of lime are to be foun entangled in the mucus of the bladder, which has subsided to the bottom of the vesse- In order to detect this salt in the urine, it is merely necessary to allow the urine t stand for some hours, to pour off the greater portion of the fluid, and to place a k' drops of the remaining liquid on a glass plate beneath the microscope, using power of about 200 linear. The oxalate of lime will then, if present, be observed l the form of very regularly shaped highly flattened octohedra. If the drop of urin be allowed to evaporate to dryness, the crystals will appear as squares, with a dar in the centre, the sides of w hich face the angles of the outer square! somewhat resembling this diagram. When much urate of ammonia is lires*'n. it is well to add some boiling water to the deposit, which dissolves the ’wno of that salt, and allows the oxalate to be distinctly observed. square533 URIC ACID GRAVEL, TREATMENT OF. The causes producing this diathesis, independent of the use of food containing I oxalic acid, as rhubarb tarts and sorrel, are those habits -which are calculated to dirni- tl aishthe vital energy, and the powers of assimilation, and of these severe mental study, ji or anxiety, or inordinate venery, appear to me to be the most common. The treatment ' ; must be guided by general principles; an entire change of habits, change of air, and a vigorous diet, consisting almost exclusively of meat and bread, with the avoidance of (I sugar in every form, are the most important circumstances to be attended to. The nitre-muriatic acid, which has been much recommended, causes certainly in f| many cases, the oxalate of lime to disappear from the urine, and frequently substitutes that of uric acid. Its use cannot, however, be long persisted in, and without atten- tion to the above rules, it has no permanent advantage.—T. T.] B 2011. As to the aetiology of gravel and its various kinds, all that has I been already said generally applies, and therefore its indications determine i the treatment. Its object must be to prevent the increased production of » the acid, or the formation of a new one, and to encourage the removal of ; the gravel already formed. If the gravel cause violent pain, difficulty in u making water, fever, and the like, these must be got rid of by blood- letting, leeches, cupping on the loins, lukewarm baths, fomentations by i calomel with antimony and opium, or hyoscyamus, by the introduction of the catheter, and so forth, according to the different state of the patient, and the violence of the symptoms. If there be suspicion of any accom- panying local disease in the kidneys after the inflammatory symptoms have been soothed, a large galbanum plaster, an issue, or a seton in the loins may be useful. 2012. In uric acid gravel, the excessive production of the uric acid must be prevented,* and the excessive acidification of the urine by other acids must be guarded against. The patient must keep to a strict diet, both as regards the quantity and quality of his food ; all substances con- taining much azote, especially salted and dried meats, acid fruits, thin soups, wine, especially that which is acid, and bad beer must be most carefully avoided. The proper action of the skin must be attended to by wearing flannel next the body, and regular relief from the bowels by proper exer- cise, and avoidance of mental excitement. It must be sought to neutralize the acid by the use of alkalies, carbonate of soda, of potash, of magnesia. These partly neutralize the acids in the alimentary canal, and in the juices, | by which the ever-continuing decomposition of the urate of ammonia is got rid of, and partly by the passing over of the alkalies into the urine, the so- »lution of the gravel is effected. The carbonate of soda and potash must be !i given dissolved in water, and the dose gradually increased. Frequently i during their continued use, the digestion is disturbed, which renders their ^suspension necessary. Carbonate of magnesia is given either in powder or P»’ith mucilaginous fluids; it is less effective, but more easily borne. KAccording to Prout (a), if these remedies are to be really efficacious, 1 they must not be given alone, but combined with alteratives and purga- (’tives. A pill of calomel and antimony should be given at night, and a solution of Rochelle salts and carbonate of soda in bitter drink next norning. Through the day this mixture should be taken twice or thrice, »r a little magnesia in a glass of soda water. This treatment must be con- mued for a certain time, according to the severity and obstinacy of the symptoms, and the alterative pills given at more distant intervals, with a corresponding diminution of the doses of the other medicines. If violent irritation also exist, opium, or hyoscyamus, which is still better, must be (n) Above cited, p. 78.534 URIC ACID GRAVEL, employed. Hydrocyanic acid may be given with advantage in flatulenci j 4 anil acidity of the stomach; and, if there be gouty complication, the , vinurn semvnum colchici. This treatment must, however, be modifiet 1 according to the circumstances of the case. The easier discharge of th< gravel is promoted by drinking much water, or any diuretic minera i water, as that of Vichy, Wildungen, Selters, Carlsbad, and the like. Wetzlar (a) proposes for uric acid gravel a solution of borax, as it dissolves tli. : uric acid with great readiness, and perhaps acts less injuriously on the digestive organ f< than alkalies. The peculiar property of vegetable acids, combined with alkalies, being converter iv in animal bodies into carbonic acid, and as such to pass into the urine, led to the proposal * of employing them instead of carbonic acid, as they are more easily borne than it i and allow of greater variety. Most vegetable alkalies can be used for a length o 1 time, and in large quantity, without disturbing the digestion, and are not unpleasant t< <j take, as the supertartrate, tartrate, and borate of potash, Seignette salts, acetate anc | citrate of potash and soda ; cherries, strawberries, and different kinds of fruits (&). According to Jones, the question of the treatment of the uric acid diathesis depends •< upon which way the greatest oxygenation can be produced upon the uric acid in the i body. This appears to be attainable, first, by the large addition of oxygen, as by ex-« • ercise, cold air; by medicine, as carbonic-acidized waters and iron; second, by the diminution of the other substances on which the oxygen acts more easily than on the i uric acid, that is those bodies which consist of hydrogen, carbon, and oxygen, by theii i exclusion from the food, and their removal by purging and sweating remedies.- third, by retaining in solution all the uric acid formed, by means of water and. alkalies. Upon the effect of vegetable diet on the diminution of uric acid, compare Liebig i upon the composition of the urine (c). Wilson Philip (d), on the contrary, has come! i to the conclusion, after a number of experiments, that a diet for the most part animal diminishes the deposit of uric acid, and increases that of the phosphates. [“ Different doses of the alkaline remedies will be required,” says Brodie, “ in different instances. Indeed a good deal of care is generally necessary to adjust the. dose to the peculiar circumstances of the individual case. If you give too little of the!’ alkali, the result is not obtained, and the lithic acid is deposited, although in smaller i quantity. If you give too much, you not only prevent the formation of the red sand, but you render the urine alkaline and a white sand (the triple-phosphate of ammonia 1 and magnesia) is deposited in its place. Other ill consequences follow the too liberals exhibition of alkalies. They alter the quality of the blood. After some time the patient is liable to petechia; he perspires too easily; becomes low-spirited,and less- capable than when in health of physical exertion. Magnesia does not produce these - effects at any rate, not to the same extent, as no more of it can enter into the consti- ’ tution than what is rendered soluble by its combination with acid in the stomach. Too large doses of magnesia, however, are mischievous in another way, by causing the I formation of magnesian calculi in the intestines. These are composed of magnesia S mechanically blended with the faces and intestinal mucus. They are not uncommon 1 in these times, when so many individuals are in the habit of taking magnesia in a careless and profuse manner. I have, in several instances, known a person to suffer a -1 good deal of distress from such a calculus being lodged in the rectum. But cases have occurred, in which the accumulation of magnesia in the intestine has taken place to a very great extent. Mr. Wilson examined the body of a patient, in whom, if I recol- > lect rightly, many pounds of magnesia were found collected in the colon, above a 1 contracted part of the rectum. In the exhibition of alkaline remedies, then, you must make each case the subject of a distinct experiment. * * * You should be provided ( with paper coloured blue by an infusion of litmus, and also with the same paper, j slightly reddened by immersion in a very weak acid. Healthy urine ought to turn the blue litmus paper red ; and you should avoid giving alkaline remedies in such a dose as to destroy this property altogether; still less ought you to render the urine alkaline. If the urine turns the paper blue, the patient is in danger of suffering from J* deposition of the phosphates and the alkalies must be given in smaller quantity. (pp. 202, 203.)] (а) Above cited, p. 78. (б) \Voehi*kh, p. 315. (e) Above cited, p. 193. „ (d) Medical Transactions, vol. vi. p. -!-•TREATMENT OF. 535 The following are the excellent remarks of Pbout on “ the treatment to be adopted in what is usually denominated a fit of the gravel. “ A Fit of the Gravel consists in the secretion of a large portion of lithic (uric) acid by the kidney, under the circumstances above mentioned, and is usually preceded, as well as accompanied, by much constitutional derangement, with tendency to fever and intiammation. The principles of the treatment to be adopted in this form of the dis- ease closely resemble those recommended in gravel, except that they must be more active. When the attack is acute, venesection or cupping from the region of the kidney, with active doses of calomel and antimonial powder (or omitting the latter, if nausea be present, and substituting opium or hyoscyamus) should be immediately had recourse to, and precede the use of diuretic remedies.— [iVote.—I have seen great mis- chief done by the incautious use of stimulating diuretics at the commencement of the attack. The sufferings of the patient have been all aggravated, and his life has been placed in extreme danger.]—When these have begun to operate sensibly upon the system, though, perhaps, before the purgatives have produced actual stools, the patient may have recourse to warm fomentations about the region of the kidneys—or, what is much better, the warm bath, and commence the use of the diuretic purgatives formerly mentioned, with the addition of colchicum: and these means, if judiciously and vigorously applied, seldom fail of removing the inflammatory or spasmodic action of _ the kidney, and of producing a flow of urine. If the attack has been taken in time, 9'; the formation of a calculus in the kidney will thus be certainly prevented ; or, at least, ul what is formed will be very small, and scarcely ever fail to be brought away without is producing those distressing symptoms which usually accompany the descent of a calculus down the ureter. It need scarcely be mentioned, that a strict antiphlogistic regimen is to be adopted; and that the collateral and subsequent treatment must be regulated by the symptoms present.” (pp. 151, 52.) Jones, speaking ot the treatment of the uric acid diathesis, in correspondence with Liebig’s views, observes, that “exercise which produces perspiration is the most beneficial; and this the more so, the colder the air is, because thereby a greater amount « of oxygen is absorbed;” but it should be taken, “always stopping short of great tu fatigue, which might depress the vital powers, so as to admit of the production of an excess of uric acid.” * * * Sleep, tending as it does to render the respirations as light and as few as possible, should be indulged in only as far as is necessary to repair the * fatigue which exercise has produced. Hot rooms should be avoided. * * * Nitrous & oxide water, known also as oxygenated water, is the best diluent in these complaints. r ; soda water very rarely contains any alkali, but consists of ordinary water with car- ®:bomc acid forced into it; so that, except for the quantity of water, it is in no way ■beneficial; and in this respect it is not so good as ordinary fountain water, inasmuch bras the atmospheric air suspended in the latter is better than the carbonic acid in the a former. * * By the various preparations of iron we may also increase the amount B. re<. Part|des in the blood, and thus influence the quantity of oxygen which is ft absorbed. Perhaps the greatest practical benefit has been derived from the sesquioxide ot,l”m/ . should “ not be given in the enormous doses recommended, by which the 1 „ ,.e lntesjjIlal canal becomes loaded; but in moderate doses, and in such a state as GtT,1r°'V ofIeriLtheieast impediment to its absorption ; that is, in the minutest state of * \rVS10n- 0 5ffect thls’ lt: sll0u,d be glven newly precipitated from some soluble rf l.rhi’T l a,S’ for ^araP1?’ from the sesquichloride or persulphate of iron, from tout P™4 4 lr°n ^ f°rmed ^ thC additi°“ "f Carb0Date °f am- E'*rl,v6Joar 1,t0 tbe tr<^ent ,by diminishing the non-nitrogenous principles in the I ,en oni» observes: It has been shown that the substances which contain no nitro- Kric’acW aiH?, T\\he 0XWir! Wlrh has been insPired> h'nder the action on the ■ thas serial til hlgh y Pr?hab,e.that no albumen undergoes metamorphosis until t has served the purposes of life. These are the first principles by which the practice ITmeatST’ by **■the ,most beneficial d>et » * moderate qSS I nuS be emulated Ev Sma - TI!Ult;ty °f bread- The kind “d quantities of both ■Sent ThP P rnn?entv and “nslderation of the habit and exercise of the t unsuitable oliVP n iy of^tarcb la flour> as compared with animal food, renders IW T bJead' v ¥eat al0ne would be far more beneficial! * * * ipvhich c-in he <?inPrc’C”^ much the largest part of those substances in vegetables Mn small miantitiei 'Vt, ’ 11 {, r”8enous aT'd oleaginous substances are present generally Jjlifferent species Thn«^,u ^ re atl.ve amount of these principles varies much in ] hose are diere'? Potat°cs and nee are those in which most starch is found, and most inadmissible; whilst in greens and peas there is much nitro-536 CYSTIC OXIDE GRAVEL, genous matter, which in peas is similar to cheese. Fruits usually contain large quantitu q of starch and sugar ; on this account, apples and pears are most objectionable. * * * Among non-nitrogenous substances fat must be included. If the formula for this i h taken, as C 11, H 10, O, then 31 equivalents of oxygen are required, in order to convei ij this into carbonic acid and water; and by taking this substance as food, so mac r‘ oxygen is prevented from acting on the uric acid. Butter is only the fatty particles <■ i milk, separated from the albuminous and watery parts; this must on no account 1 taken in excess. Gelatine may be used as a partial substitute for meat;, but as tl 4 albuminous tissues cannot be formed from it, it cannot be entirely substituted for without the strength failing. “ For drink the oxygenated water has been mentioned as best; then water which hi i been distilled, and therefore contains no substances whatever in solution, and on th: i account it is, generally speaking, the best solvent; that is, it can hold more in solutioi • and remove more from the body than another water which, when drunk, already cor; tains substances dissolved in it. But this cannot be procured everywhere, and, there fore, it is desirable to point out how the best drinking water can be obtained.” Filtering or boiling water, or getting rid of the free carbonic acid gas by adding a little mor i lime, according to Reid’s plan, are inefficient, and neither of the latter “ causes an * other salts of lime which may be dissolved in the water to be precipitated. To effei. this, a few grains of carbonate of potash or soda should be added to the water befor boiling, and the boiling should be continued for some minutes. By this means thes 1 salts of lime will be decomposed, and sulphate of potash and'soda, or chloride of potassiui i and sodium, in very small quantities, will exist in the water after it has been filterec or the chalky sediment has been allowed to settle to the bottom. Good fountain wate, or soda water are far better than beer and wine, which are objectionable for the spirit an i sugar which they contain. The spirit is a substance which may be represented by C - H 6, 0, and the sugar by C 12, H 14, O 14, the first requiring 12 equivalents of oxygen | and the last 24, to convert them into carbonic acid and water. The excess of sugar an - acid in home-made wines renders them more injurious than foreign wines or spirits, c which gin and whisky most certainly also retard oxygenation, yet, by producing a excess of water in the urine, they cause that deposit which arises from the want t1 action of the oxygen to be dissolved, and thus the evil which they and other substance occasion is for a time concealed, (p. 37-41.) “ We can also diminish these non-nitrogenous bodies in the blood by aperients, whicl act on the liver. These will be found more particularly useful when the deposit i dark-coloured ; indeed, the deeper the colour the less action there is of the liver. * * Of such medicines calomel, aloes, colchicum, and colocynthare beneficial, both in larg l and purgative doses, and also when given in such a way as to increase the secretion c the liver. Hence the efficacy of blue pill as an alterative. * * * The use of thes medicines as purgatives must be judged of by their effects and the strength of tb. patient. * * * Sudorifics are occasionally given with great advantage. * * * »•" regard to baths generally their action may be considered to be on the nerves and oi the blood, and on each the action is of two kinds ; thus on the nerves there may be . stimulant or sedative action, and on the blood they are capable of removing substance; from it, and of enabling them to be absorbed into it. These modes of action depen; on the state of the system, the temperature, and the substances which are dissolve!' in the bath. (pp. 41, 2.) . . .J “ The next point in the treatment that must be attended to is to keep all the uric aca in the ultimate textures in solution. This may perhaps be effected by water and alsa- lies. When these or their carbonates are given, they should be taken at least an bout before food in order that they may not interfere with digestion: but though tne^- medicines may relieve the complaint, they never can cure it. * * * I believethese mfj1' cines are the least necessary part of the treatment I have laid down, and it would w well for all to try what may be effected by diet and exercise, before they resort tf alkalies, which may in some cases, perhaps, be the cause of an increase in the of uric acid. This appears to be the opinion of Pelouze, in his last report.” (p- 45-/J 2013. Gravel which is formed of cystic oxide requires the same treat-’ merit as uric acid, especially in reference to dietetics (1). In <>xa*a e of lime gravel all vegetable food should be withheld, according to Maoendie, but according to Phout the treatment must, agree with tlia for uric acid gravel. After what has been already said {par. 1993; o the origin of gravel from oxalate of lime, both modes of treatment may537 TREATMENT OF. iff be proper (2). In phosphate of lime gravel the increased constitutional s irritability in general, and that of the urinary organs in particular, must be diminished by opium, by hyoscyamus, and the like, in combination with 3 tonic remedies. At the same time acids, especially the hydrochloric, must be , used, and if that cannot be borne, citric or carbonic acid. Much drinking, ?. which is usually recommended to favour the solution of the phosphates, is is in reality hurtful, and increases the already too great irritability of the >! kidneys and bladder. In the use of acids, however, it must be remem- bi bered that if the patient use more than is necessary for neutralizing the fj alkaline condition of the urine, and for dissolving the earthy salts which is are deposited, the white gravel indeed disappears, but, in its stead, uric ; acid gravel is formed from the precipitation of the uric acid, in conse- m quence of the acid state of the urine. The bowels should be kept open i with gentle, but not saline medicines; the living should be strictly 0 attended to : the patient should take easily digestible meat, light puddings, b which seem more proper than the use of vegetables, and food destitute^of - azote, although, according to Magendie and Chevreuil, the phosphates are diminished in the urine of carnivora by such diet. If any organic disease of the urinary passages or of the spinal marrow accompany phos- phatic gravel, a proper treatment should be had recourse to. 1 [(I) With regard to the medical treatment of the sediment from cystic oxide, Prout ri . observes, that it “ will depend on circumstances. In the first place, great care should 1 be. Paid t0 ttie digestive functions, and if the urine be acid, the alkalies may be taken ; with advantage ; on the contrary, if alkaline, the muriatic acid, indeed the latter, if the ■irritation present would permit it, might, perhaps, in all cases be employed advan- (t tageously, not only with the view of retaining the cystic oxide in solution, but of id..inducing the lithic (uric) acid diathesis. From the diseased state of the kidney also r with winch this diathesis seems to be so frequently associated, local counter-stimuli will’ n: be likely to be serviceable.” (p. 169.) / “ Jhe aksence °f urinary sediment, &c,” in the oxalate of lime diathesis, says - Ekodt, are of a negative character, and lead to no inference where other circum- Iwanting, as is most generally the case. But if there be pain in the region J kl-dneyJ and other symptoms of gravel, without any appearance of sediment, and ndhan infle JG ^ the yellow tinge above alluded to, the stomach deranged, l* and an inflammatory diathesis, either general or local, (i. e. about the urinarv or<niis V n.ie present, and if all these are associated with suppressed gout, or tendency to cutaneous Bndisease, the existence of this form of the disease may be suspected TSeans imZ RjoS i0, counteract it. Besides the general principles of treatment above men- adopted another principle, very different indeed from these but ^ th.mk 1 have sfn of considerable utility in two or three instances Tiffs has fS T?1CaVrr ‘V-h^gethe diathesis from that of the oxalate of lime to theliUdc ^iithlec^el r:j^>£*i£g^rati f* ? f^*-*-*** 0 olan of treatment reauires srmm Win-m,. * i nctd scarcely be mentioned that this s hould hardly in any case be adonted^™ ,vnd ^ ltS n'au(agernent, and that it 1 • wised to exist in the kidnev or hl-uld,.,- . disorganization or calculus is already sup- ■’ i p. 160-62.) ^ ’ °r Petdlaps in very young or very old subjects.” '! tep further°thanCifis^ hmf t tarniri• Jo,NE?’ “the oxydizing process is carried a She extent to which it is cirri 1 • ,i C1C^ ,^la,^'esf‘! exists; but it is still stopped short of Bndperhaps o^1rsubstanc#«enf1?tt^10 8tate.of health- * * * It is possible that sugar t ps ottier substances of the non-nitrogenous class, may, by imperfectly com-CYSTIC OXIDE GRAVEL, TREATMENT OF. 538 Lining with oxygen in the body, give rise to oxalic acid; still the oxygen has evidently.1J a much stronger affinity for the non-nitrogenous than for the nitrogenous substances in , the body, and thus the process of oxydation is far more frequently incomplete in the a latter than in the former; so that we should expect oxalic acid generally to arise from i the insufficient oxidation of the uric acid, and much more rarely from sugar; and the 1 alternation of this substance with uric acid in calculi, and the ease with which it is s formed from uric acid, leads to the belief that this is the usual origin of oxalic acid.; i The free oxalic acid passing off by the kidneys, meeting with the phosphate of lime, ‘ 1 which is secreted both by them and by the mucous membrane of the urinary passages,-® decomposes it, and oxalate of lime is the result. The same thing happens when oxalic acid is taken, as such, in the food; if free, like tartaric acid, it passes off at the kidneys, , a and combines with the lime which it afterwards meets with. If taken in combiiiation-ta with alkalies, like tartaric acid, it would probably be decomposed. The causes, then,u« of this disease are in most cases similar to the causes of the uric acid diathesis; both: J diseases may be referred to insufficient oxidation, and the treatment must consequently s be the same in both.” (p. 71-3.) “ It is highly probable that an excess of lime in the system may induce the formation , of oxalic acid, but some lime is necessary for the bones and the membranes, and it is taken into the system in all solid and liquid food. Now, though it is impossible to I obtain food absolutely free from it, and thus to hinder all formation of fresh oxalate of i) lime, still by rendering it as free as possible, the rapid increase of a calculus may beg prevented. Perhaps of all substances, water is the easiest to render pure, and it is • that which usually contains most lime. On this account, in the oxalic acid diathesis, h distilled water should always be used in everything for which common water is etn- ployed in the state of health. When distilled water cannot be obtained rain water ( would be the best substitute; and when this is not to be had, then that which has been j purified as already mentioned. * * * This treatment is merely palliative, and the curative treatment must be directed to the oxalic acid and not to the lime.” (p. 74.) (3) “ The principles of treatment in both forms of the phosphatic deposit are,” says i Prout, “ the same, and differ only in degree. The particular indications of cure ' seem to be to diminish the unnatural irritability of the system, and to restore the state: of the general health, and particularly of the urinary organs, by tonics, and other appropriate remedies. In severe affections, especially of the amorphous class, opium, as far as my experience has hitherto extended, is the only remedy that can be employed with much advantage to fulfil the first indication. This must be given in large and repeated doses, such as from gr. i. to gr. v., or more, two or three times a day. Under this plan the more distressing symptoms will commonly be speedily relieved; and now, in conjunction with opium, (in more moderate doses if the state of the disease a will permit,) the mineral acids, cinchona, uva ursi, different preparations of iron and other tonics may be had recourse to; or if the mineral acid should disagree, the citric acid may be taken instead. There may be also applied to the region of the loins, - a large pitch, soap, or galbanum plaster, which frequently seems to afford considerable relief to the distressing pain there felt; or if the symptoms are unusually severe, and s connected with manifest local injury, setons, or issues, may be instituted in the back. * * * The bowels are most frequently constipated; but purgatives of the more active class must be given with caution. Saline purgatives, more especially those containing a vegetable acid, as the Rochelle salts, the Seidlitz powders, &c., must be avoided, and recourse had to small doses of castor oil or laxative injections. Mercury, in all its forms, and particularly when pushed so far as to produce its specific effects on the - constitution, seems capable of doing a great deal of mischief, when the "’I are concerned, more especially in the severer forms of the affection; and if fro®® other causes it be judged proper or necessary, as the least of two evils, to administer this remedy, its exhibition must be managed with caution, and its effects closely watched. Perhaps the best mode of exhibiting it in such cases is to combine it with opium, or with a purgative, in some instances. 1 cannot help thinking, however, that in very severe forms of the affection, its use had better be omitted altogether, till the more distressing symptoms have somewhat yielded, and the patient has <• recovered a little strength. Alkaline remedies of every description must be most carefully avoided, their use, in every point of view, being most mischievous, vh«i the phosphates are concerned. Indeed, all remedies that act as diuretics, should, * in general, be shunned, and the patient should be prohibited from drinking too much. With respect to drinks in general, they should be of a soothing demulcen character, and prepared with distilled or the softest water that can be procured, as hard waters are literally poison in this form of disease. In less severe cases, ,STONE IN THE KIDNEYS. 539 & where the source of irritation is chiefly confined to the urinary organs, and where the constitution is sound, and the strength not remarkably reduced, similar means may be had recourse to: though opium, to the above extent, is seldom necessary or proper. Iu such cases, the liyosct/amus is an excellent remedy, especially when combined with the extract of uvu ursi; and more or less, according to circumstances, of the extr. opii; the same is true of the alcliemilla arvensis, a strong infusion of which taken frequently, sometimes gives great relief. In such cases, also, occasional purgatives, especially of the milder class, may be employed with safety and advantage, (p. 182-86.) “ The diet in severe cases should be of the mildest and most nutritious kind, and taken in very moderate quantities at a time. From what I have seen I am certainly inclined to advise an animal diet in preference to an acescent vegetable diet, commonly recommended; but I wish it to be understood that no positive directions are given on this point; * * * for I am disposed to believe, that in all instances, that diet is most proper for a patient, which agrees best with him, and which, in many instances can be only known by actual trial; I may give it, however, as my opinion, that all watery diet, as soups, &c., should be taken very moderately. If the patient has been accus- tomed to wine, the Ehine or some of the lighter varieties of French wines will be T. preferable. Cider and perry may be also taken, if they do not disagree. I wish it to i be understood, however, that the use of these is not particularly recommended. But these and everything else that can be done for a patient in this state, are of very little ■use, if the mind, cannot be set at rest. The influence of mental anxiety is really it astonishing in this disease ; and absence from care, the exhilarating air of the country and such exercises as are consistent with the patient’s condition, will, perhaps, more than ’ any thing else> contribute to the cure, particularly in the slighter cases, and when the 8 cause is not local injury.” (pp. 186, 87.) Jones observes that, in the palliative treat- i meut of these complaints, “ the first object must be to cause the phosphates to be retained |< m solution: this is effected by rendering the urine acid, which is most easily done by * any vegetable acid, as tartaric, citric, acetic acids. It was found by the experiments of m oehler, on men and dogs, that if any of these acids are taken in a free state, that is I not in combination with an alkali, they pass through the blood unchanged, and appear mil, as acids in the urine. V\ hy they should not be oxidized, as they are when in combina- Z T Tf i?kalles’ 15 at pyr®nt unknown. * * * The dose of these acids should f b f,r^Ua , y lncreased tdl the urine becomes again acid to test paper, when great care I tmust be taken not to render it so much so as to cause precipitation of uric acid * * * * S als° been found, by experiment (a), that the strong mineral acids possess no I render the urine acid; probably their strong affinity for the soda in the blood *--Lrm,i,wiVe lts,comb,nat*on with the albumen; and thereby salts of soda would be t , . n!'d’ and the acids would pass off by the kidneys as neutral salts. * * * Our .chief attention must be directed to the removal, if possible, of the cause of the u Vconstltutes the curative treatment; this may be most beneficially & ned with palliative measures. If the alkalescence arises from the altered mucus Saturn" tbUtfi^ an inflamed bladder, when the inflammation is cured, the acidity will * deP0Slt. ceas<y If the irritation of a stone causes the secretion of mucus or ? cmPt>’11nS of ,the bladder, the stone must be removed. If the alkalescence oceeds from weakness, it is only by restoring the general health that the urine-arm |«>ennanently regain its natural condition ; though fora" andfor a time onlv™ I:vi1 “ay be hindered by the use of vegetable acids.” (I fifilsB °nly’ “UCh II.—OF STONE IN THE KIDNEYS. (Calculus lienalis, Lat.; Niereustein, Germ.; Calcul Iiifnal, Fr ) m,U" « ““1“ •” >» N'P'-rotomie; i„ Mom. a. fAead. llS"*' U'ber dlC Kr“k'»'“ *» der iibrigen Harnorgane. Leipaig, 1 Combaire, J. N„ Disserts t. sur fExtirpation des Reins. Paris, 1804 4,o I I""'': °“ l!‘“' C”'“U i >» Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. xi. p. 211-18. r' ilfe sl,ai ' '7, ani?el™ «t the kidney, stones may be formed of nerent shape and nature, singly, crowded together, or as one very large 00 Berzelius’s Handbook, p. 4G7.540 STONE IN THE KIDNEYS, DIAGNOSIS J /© i ii mass, distending tlie cavities of the organ, in which case, the substance o the kidney is diminished by absorption. The chemical nature of rena stones varies ; they most frequently, however, are composed of uric acid. [In rare cases, a stone in the kidney, if very large, may be felt through the loins. J case of this kind occurred to the elder Cline, who would have operated, had the pa tient’s health permitted (a). Prout accounts for the formation of uric acid stones in the kidney in the followim way:—“The kidney is made up of a congeries of similar parts, or little kidneys, if w. may use the expression, each one of which is independent of the others in its structure and may therefore, probably, independently of the others, become more or less derangei \ in its functions. Let us suppose one or more of these little kidneys similarly derangec <| to the others, but in a greater degree, so as to secrete very little water, but a large pro ; 9 portion of lithic (uric) acid. In such a case, the lithic (uric) acid must be obviously i separated in that peculiar semifluid condition, or state of hydrate, which it is well know- a to be readily capable of assuming. In this state it is bulky, and may thus occupy tin:, n whole of the infundibulum in which it has been deposited; or the quantity may be sup posed to be sometimes so great as to be partly protruded, in a similar state, into thi fl common receptacle or pelvis of the kidney. After remaining in this state for a greater or less time, crystallization may be supposed to take place; the semifluid mass wil j now be much diminished in bulk, and perhaps reduced to the form of a congeries 01 a crystals easily separable from one another, and thus pass off in the form of gravel; 01; what may easily be supposed to take place, (especially when the lithic acid is very im- pure, and combined with a larger portion of the other matters than usual,) it may assume; the form of an imperfectly crystallized or amorphous mass, and thus constitute s nucleus possessing these characters : or something between the two extremes may take* place—the plastic mass may separate partly into crystals, and partly remain an amorphout mass, enveloping Ihese crystals; in which case, a mixed kind of nucleus will bt® formed.” (pp. 207, 208.) Brodie (b) observes, that uric acid stones occur “ most frequently in those who nave led luxurious and indolent lives ; and who previously have, been subject to deposits oi lithate of ammonia, or of lithic acid sand, in the urine. It is this class of individuate^ that is especially liable to gout, and there is an evident connexion between these two diseases. A patient may have been in the habit of voiding lithic (uric) acid cnlculi; he becomes affected with the gout, and the formation of the calculi ceases. In a few cases the two diseases go on together. Some persons void a great number of this km of lithic acid calculi. I am almost afraid to say how many I have known to be voided by one individual—probably some hundreds, of all varieties of size. ’ (pp. 224, 25.) “I have had fewer opportunities of examining renal calculi composed of oxalate or lime,” says Prout, “from their being comparatively more rare. Sometimes they are formed on a primary nucleus of lithic (uric) acid. In one or two instances, I hayi see them contain in their centre an irregular cavity, formed apparently by tlieagg u 'rJa of several imperfectly globular-shaped plastic masses round a substance which la sequently been entirely removed, or had disappeared by drying ; the whole being wards surrounded by concentric lamina of the same substance. It may, perhaps, appear difficult to conceive how a substance so insoluble as oxalate of lime can exist in a p ' state, or form a calculus at all; since, in our hands, this salt occurs only.in the^^ Slate, Ul luirn a ai an, siuia:, m ........... -- -... , . of a powder, and seems incapable of concreting or assuming the crystallize • Perhaps the circumstance may admit of an explanation, by supposing that a so u 1- : 1.....1...1 1 ; with a little lime, is secreted bya oxalic acid, nearly in a saturated state, and in union wim a muc mm., .o ? . portion of one of the kidneys, instead of the lithic (uric) acid in the former case, • this, enveloped in the usual animal matters, passes from the infundibulum into t of the kidney, and there meeting with the lime naturally contained in the urmesecraw* by the other parts of the kidney, instantly combines with it, and forms tl'c [on'! i . J mominr m xrVnMl it IS formed. ailCl tlie aUUim in question ; and that from the peculiar manner in which it is formed, and of animal matters present, it may be able to exist for some time at the tempi . i i :*i ~~ flirt wVtnlrt pnnpretes into a sonu of the human body in a plastic semifluid state, before the whole concretes ™ mass. Whether this supposition be admitted or not, which is a matter of no in P® the facts are certain, that oxalate of lime nut only does sometimes exist as an an P „ mass in renal calculi, hut occasionally in the form of crystals also ; a are difficult to explain, except on some such supposition as the above. (PP- - ; ’ hsil Brouie also observes:—“ Calculi of oxalate of lime are much more rar “jsts nse of lithic (uric) acid. It is not merely that the disposition to form them ) I more < those of (a) A. Coofeh's Lectures, vol. ii. p. 2‘-2. (6) Above cited.541 AND TREATMENT. , in fewer individuals, but that where it does exist they are not generated in the 1 same number as the litliic (uric) acid calculi. A patient may void one of these 1 calculi, and never void another, or he may void a second after the lapse of many I years. In one instance, however, in examining a body after death, I discovered as i many as five or six in one kidney: extensive suppuration and complete disorgani- zation of the glandular structure of the kidney; and this local disease was the im- j§ i immediate cause of death.” (p. 225.) « Calculi of cystic oxide,” Prout states, “ are extremely rare. From what has been b. already quoted on this subject, there is reason to conclude that they generally originate 4 in the kidneys. I have only had an opportunity of examining two specimens of this & species of calculi, with reference to their primary nuclei; in one of these the nucleus }«; consisted of a small triangular amorphous mass, apparently of the same matter as the c rest of the calculus, though a little deeper coloured. In the other, no distinct nucleus I 1 could be discovered.” (p. 210.) The rarity of renal stones composed of the phosphates, Prout considers as depending v “on various circumstances. In the first place, this form of the disease is seldom original, >: but consequent to others; and the system appears to be affected generally, rather than i. the kidney locally, as in the other forms of the disease. In the second place, the large to flow of urine, and the consequent hurried state of action to which the kidneys are neces- v sarily subject, may be justly considered 'as unfavourable to the formation of renal & calculi. In some instances, however, as before stated, calculi composed of the phos- K' phates are actually formed in the kidney; but in every instance of this description, the jol particulars of which I can trace, it has occurred only in very severe and obstinate cases oi of the phosphatic diathesis.” (p. 211.)] 2015. The diagnosis of renal stones is for the most part doubtful, as i the symptoms which they produce are very various. Sometimes they it cause no pain; often the patient feels an oppressive, dull, straining- pain | in the region of the kidney, which sometimes ceases and then recurs, is ty diminished by rest, and increased by jolting movements of the body. W'With pointed, angular stones, the pain is severe and tearing, extending * towards the groins and testicles. Not unfrequently inflammation of the tt kidneys occurs with all its symptoms. The urine is often mixed with blood, mucus, pus, and sand. ■1 [“Sometimes,” says Brodie, “calculus in the kidney may be said to cause no n inconvenience at all, so that calculi are found in the kidney after death, the ex- ipistence of which had never been suspected during the patient’s lifetime. In other V cases, the patient complains of pain in the loins, and the urine is occasionally tinged 1 i with blood, especially after any jolting exercise, such as riding on horseback.” (p. 233.) Astley Cooper observes, that “the presence of a stone in the kidney is sometimes W^manifested by extreme irritability of the bladder,” of which he mentions an instance, in >! a male, that had existed for a great length of time without being relieved by treatment. iiAfter death, “ no disease of the bladder or urethra was found, but a large stone was dis- £ covered in the kidney.” (p. 221.) Brodie relates a similar example in a female, but : in this case, “ the urine deposited what appeared at first to be a muco-purulent secretion, |i but afterwards had all the characters of true pus, like that from an abscess.” After two floor three years, symptoms of a stone passing through the ureter came on; a large stone v was voided by the urethra, and the original symptoms were relieved, (p. 68.)] I 2016. Stone in the kidney is a tedious and painful disease. If only one BKidney be affected, there is less danger to life than if stone exist in both I' lclneys. If inflammation of the kidneys arise, it may cause death by its I severity, and by the complete suppression of the urine, or it may go on to " suppuration, and the pus may be discharged either by the ureter, or it may h lorm a fluctuating tumour in the loins. it 11 h/)10 rnaior'ty cases, says Brodie, “ a calculus of the kidney finds its way into it iKi J . aeF soou after its first formation ; but in other cases it remains for a consider- I i'1?6 ln * • Sidney, being at last dislodged by some accidental circumstance of I • c le. uientmns a good example, of a gentleman whose urine had been occasionally in nil , , O0t ’ liavinB been overturned in a carriage, he soon after found himself ■ e to make water, but after some straining, a renal calculus, which seemed to haveSTONE IN THE KIDNEYS; TREATMENT. 542 the form of one of the infundibula of the kidney, was projected with no small degre i ■& of force, and the urine flowed in a full stream.” (p. 233.) Instances of abscesses in the loins, by which stones from the kidney have been eitlie | extracted or discharged, are mentioned by Hevin (a), and by Astley Cooper, in whos u patient they were composed of the ammonia-magnesian phosphate (b). Broijik als ,: mentions the case of a woman who had abscess in the loin, which after death was foun« communicating with a large collection of irregular-shaped stones in the kidney (c). I | A stone remaining in the kidney may be snapped in two by the person making us i ’ " ' " * Ixfl of any unaccustomed exertion, of which my friend Crisp has mentioned to me th following example :—A medical man whilst jumping over a flower bed, dropped dowi I suddenly with intense pain in the loin, which continued for two or three hours. H died a few months after of heart disease and other lesions, and on examination of hi body, a stone was found in the kidney of irregular oblong form, which was sepa transversely into two nearly equal halves.—J. F. S.] 2017. The treatment, when the object is the solution of the renal stone or the getting rid of the disposition to lithogenesis, must be guided b\ the rules already laid down (par. 2011-13.) It is in general confinei only to lessening the symptoms, by blood-letting, mild mucilaginous drinks antispasmodic remedies, baths, rubbings and the like (1). The removal of the stone by cutting (Nephrotomia) can only be undertaken, when an cedematous, or fluctuating swelling, or a fistula has. formed in the loins. Having opened the abscess, its bottom must be ex- amined with the finger or the probe, and if a stone be met with it must be removed, after enlarging the wound, if it be too confined. If there « be a fistula leading down to a stone, it must be properly enlarged with sponge tent or with a bistoury. If the stone be fixed, its extraction must be postponed till it has become somewhat loose. Oftentimes a superficial suppurating cavity is found between the muscles and the skin, from which an opening leads to the abscess in the kidney. The wound, whether or not a stone be found, should be kept open with wads of lint attached to a thread, as long as stones are formed in the kidney, or the diseased secre- tion exists in the urine (2). [ (1) “ If there be symptoms,” says Brodik, “ which lead you to suspect that a stone is lodged in the kidney, it is of course desirable that it should be made, if possible, to pass into the ureter, before it has attained such a size as to be incapable of being con- veyed along the canal into the bladder. Horse exercise, especially hard trotting, in such a case generally produces bloody urine. This shows that the calculus is made to un- dergo some change of position, and whatever produces this effect, is, of course, favour- able to its escape from the kidney.—[With due respect to this high authority, I should he- sitate in advising horse exercise, or any other violent effort to excite change of place in the stone, for fear of setting up active inflammation in the kidney, already irritated by the pressure of stone, and which might not be very easily or eertainly repressed, j. f. s.]—It is reasonable to suppose, that medicines which occasion a more abun- dant flow of urine, combined with diluting drinks, may also be useful under these circumstances. Where a calculus retained in the kidney produces considerable pam in the loins and neighbouring parts, the patient will sometimes derive benefit from local blood-letting, by cupping, or by leeches. At other times the application of the beUa- donna plaster. You may also employ setons and issues in the loins, as recommended by Earle (d). According to my experience, however, the last-mentioned remedies are seldom very useful, except in those cases in which disease of the kidneys, and especial abscess of the kidney, has taken place as a consequence of the lodgment of the calculus- M That they are sometimes eminently useful, under these last-named circumstances, 1 cannot doubt.” (p. 241.) , . “ When the inflammation of the kidneys is supposed to be connected witn toe - sence of renal calculi," which is by far the most frequent occurrence, Proi t recom- mends, “ in connexion with general blood-letting or cupping (if necessary) and the warm (n) Mem. de 1’Acad. de Cliirurgle, vol. iii. (ft) lectures, yot. ii. p. 222. p. 266. (c) Above cited, p. 6‘J. (rf) Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. xi. p. 211.STONE IN THE URETERS. 543 , bath, calomel in active doses, which, when the constitution is otherwise sound, may be ft employed with great advantage, especially if it be immediately followed or accom- b* panied by the use of hyoscyamus in pretty large doses, so as to ensure the anti-spasmodie ■ g! effects of the latter oil the system; and when the urine is high-coloured and acid, the is purgative effects of the calomel may be increased or kept up by the use of some of the ih diuretic purgatives, such as the neutral salts, and particularly the tartarized soda. This l plan may be pursued for a greater or less time, according to the circumstances of the to patient; and will, in favourable cases, be followed by the expulsion of the calculus from >j; the kidney, without the severe symptoms commonly accompanying its descent down iii the ureter.” (pp. 219, 20.) (2) In connexion with the subject of stone in the kidney, the following observations of Brodie on what he considers to be Gouty Inflammation of the Kidney are worthy of particular notice. “ A class of cases you will occasionally meet with,” says he, “ among the affluent classes of society die symptoms of which bear no small resemblance to those just described, although they have a very different origin; and the diagnosis of which is of no small im- portance in practice. The persons liable to be thus affected are those who lead in- dolent lives, indulging themselves, at the same time, in all the luxuries of the table. There is pain in the loins, often very severe, extending downwards to the groin • the urine is scanty and high coloured, depositing, as it cools, an abundant red or yellow sediment (lithate of ammonia.) So far the symptoms a good deal resemble those produced by the passage of a calculus down the ureter; but the absence or pam in the testicle, of sickness and faintness, and the presence of no small degree of symptomatic fever, enable you to distinguish the two orders of cases from each other. The effect produced by the remedies will assist you in your diagnosis. The symptoms which have been just described are of a gouty origin, and yield almost immediately to a free exhibition of colchicum; which, however, it is generally more JJ prudent not to administer until after the bowels have been emptied, by the exhibition of ‘ some grains of calomel, followed by a draught of infusion of senna with the sulphate liot magnesia, or some other saline aperient.” (p. 232.)J 1 III—OF STONE IN THE URETERS. {Calculus Uretericus, Lat.; Stein in den Harnleiter, Germ.; Calcul engage dans Vuretere, Fr.) 10 2018. When a stone descends from the kidney into the ureter, more or a violent symptoms arise, in proportion as the passage of the urine through the ureter is completely or partially prevented. Pain comes on 5T-h*. descends from the kidney to the pelvis, and the patient often feels distinctly the gradual progress of the stone. The ureter is often consi- i lerably distended by the urine collected above the stone. Symptoms of •tone in the kidney will also have been previously observed When the ' tone escapes from the ureter into the bladder, the symptoms quickly ^-ubside, and those of stone in the bladder arise (1). t Y I The treatment is precisely similar to that for stone in the kidney and or ischuria ureterica (2). t 3 anu •• SC7,ere’ and in that case attended I teltSfe; the testicle; and frequently the (a) Lectures in London Med. Guz., vol. viii. J544 STONE IN THE BLADDER ; fP *• i spasmodic contraction of the cremaster muscle; no relief is experienced until tl calculus has escaped from the lower orifice of the ureter, and entered the bladder; br as soon as this has happened, the patient’s tortures, for they truly deserve that appell; tion, are at an end. (p. 66.) It seldom happens that the excretory duct of the kidne is completely obstructed, but when it is so the necessary consequence is that the urir becomes accumulated in the infundibula, and that these become dilated to a large siz forming membranous cysts; while the glandular structure of the organ is expands itt and in a great measure absorbed from the pressure which is thus exercised upon it. 1 some cases, you find at last the kidney converted into a large membranous bag, on tl surface of which scarcely a vestige of the glandular structure is perceptible, while tl interior of it is composed of a number of cells communicating with each .other, and a containing urine.” (p. 68.) . “ But a calculus (a) may be of such size as to be stopped in its passage to the bladde and retained in the ureter. One might suppose, that under these circumstances, tl ureter would become more and more dilated, and at last burst, as the urethra burs~ behind a stricture. I cannot say this never happens; and indeed Morgagni quote a case from another writer, in which there is reason to believe that such an ever- actually occurred. However, this is not the constant order of events, as the followin case, which occurred to Brodie, will prove; a person for several years had bee subject to the formation of renal calculi, which were passed by the urethra. At lai however, an attack came on, no stone passed, and he ceased to void urine; a catheter wi passed, but no urine flowed ; the patient became comatose, and died ten or twelve day after.” In one kidney there were several calculi; there were none in the other. 1 a alter. in oue lnuuc) tucic vrc.c , ' . , , . the latter and in the upper part of that canal, there was a calculus, as it were wedged u of about the size of a horse bean. A patient died also under Travers s care, with tb oi aDOUt me size ui a. uuisc ucou. — ; .—' , same symptoms, having each ureter where it arises from the pelvis ot the kidney con pletely obstructed by a calculus.” (pp. 241,42.) Persons may also die from suppuration occurring in the kidney, whilst its escape l prevented by a stone blocking up the ureter. A case of this kind is related by Astle Cooper (b) as having occurred to the elder Cline ; he had operated on a boy for ston in the bladder. “ The boy had recovered from the operation, when he was seized wit rigors, great pain in the course of the ureter, and vomiting; a swelling formed just abov the seat of the ccccum, in the right iliac fossa, which gradually increased, and the boy constitution quickly gave way. On examination after death, the pelvis of the kidne. and the ureter were found distended with matter; and at the end of the ureter near tb bladder, a stone was discovered, which had prevented the escape of the urine and matte into the bladder, and thus occasioned death.” (p. 225.) He mentions also the case of •• woman who “ had great pain in her loins, and tenderness in her abdomen, with so muc) fever, that she did not live long. * * * Upon making an incision intothe ufeW there issued a strong urinous smell, and a watery fluid mixed with matter. 1 he lutes tines were inflamed and adherent; the bladder was small; one kidney was mud enlarged, and the other unaltered; the ureter of the enlarged kidney was greatl. increased in size, and full of matter; it was completely closed at the lower partby . calculus, and had given way above, so as to allow of the escape of the urme and mat into the abdomen.” (p. 226.) He also relates one case in which a stone stop^d for som time in the ureter, and the latter having become adherent to the colon, ulceration emu«i and the stone was discharged by stool; and another where “ an abscess forme n anterior superior spinous process of the ilium from which a calculus and a qu‘ v matter were discharged, and the patient recovered.” (p. 227.) , (2) As to treatment, Asti.ev Cooper recommends large bleeding, , opium, liquor potasses, to allay irritation, and the abdomen to be fomented, and rubbed from above downwards to assist mechanically the passage of the caicui (p. 227.)] IV.—OF STONE IN THE BLADDER. (Calculus Vesicalis, Lat.; Harnblasenstein, Germ.; Culculc I c'sical, Fr.) 2019. Stone in the urinary bladder is either primarily formed in the kidnev and enlarges in the bladder, or it forms in the bladder, as n •negations on foreign bodies. The variety of stone in the « Bladder is very great, as regards shape, size, number, and position , on these, in part, depends the severity of the symptoms which it exci (a) Lectures, at the head of this article. (b) Lectures, vol. ii.FORM AND SITUATION. 545 [“Calculous disorders,”observes Brodie, “prevail differently in different classes of society, among individuals of different ages, and in different climates and districts, it Among the lower classes, children are much more liable to calculi than adult per- sons. You know how large a proportion of our hospital patients admitted for litho- tomy are children. On the other hand, in private practice, that is, among the 1 upper classes of society, very few of our patients are children, and the great i majority are persons above fifty years of age. Nor are these things of difficult a.' explanation. The great majority of calculi are originally composed of lithic 1 (uric) acid, that is, have a lithic acid nucleus. * * * In all classes, persons of a t middle age are less frequently affected by stone in the bladder than those who are $■ younger or older.” (p. 253.) These observations are confirmed by the following analysis of three hundred and h fifty-four cases, between the ages of two and of seventy-nine years, which has been given H' by Smith, of Bristol (a), together with the results of the operation, which was per- o formed on all, seven only of the number being females, of whom two were under • ■ ten years, three between ten and twenty, one between twenty and thirty, and one between thirty and forty. “ 135 65 35 34 37 28 18 2 Analysis of 354 Cases of Lithotomy, from 2 years to 10 ; Cured, 106 ; Died, 29, or one death in 4i 10 20 52 20 30 30 30 40 27 40 50 26 50 60 22 60 70 11 70 79 1 13 5 5 7 7 5 11 3J 6 4? 7 2§ 1 2 354 275 79 4A-’ 1 iJ!aITHi,eStl-m!JteS ,he number of stone-operations in the provinces at 90;’ in the Il67 d<in tl?SPltv.Sl at/!’ ^nd,m London private practice, at 30; making a total of I i ' ■ u ,the. whole,of Scotland, at 12; in Ireland, the same; and that, if we take 1 ,n/ound numbers at 200, we shall have the very extreme point of cal- 2 Hi' fS fo,r.our wh°le population. He also notices the curious fact, that certain Hi a^0UIidnm cases; whllst’ in others> the disease is scarcely known “Let us IhosS a?°N° k-a6d ,Herefo[d 5 and again’ U is a surprising^ truth, that in the ■Si at/Norwicb alone, the numbers are as great as either in all Ireland or LI1 ,.W,bi.lsl i” ,he Co"?t Hos'li,al « H”rfor<l tore had »o I f r'P " ln tb,e course of forty-five years. Sailors appear to be St°De m tbe bladder’ as A. Copland Hutchinson’s (ft) I S ’ rS l occurred m the course of fifteen years in the navy, during j, ,P ^ le average annual number of men in the service was 13?> 000 And lunfcnf™ lq,!eSt,0nS->^’ that b appearing “seamen, who have rarely oppor ■ • r of 'ndulgmg in the use of malt liquors, are, in great measure exempt, fmin ' i)e nrL“"Cretl0I1f’ whether ail hinds of fermented liquors be not’ favourable to ff, P duction and accretion of such disorders?” second, “mav it not. therefore ,S,;ntb C mStance of. seafaring men, that the peculiarities of their regimen and they habitually take "ith their’f°°d’ id J h In, regfrd t0 the form of stone in the urinary bladder, what I nostbcasesa readyiSitateJ feneral (Par‘ 2005) applies7 here also. In vhat «,«’ I|ecial,Iy there ls but a single stone, it is oval, and some- K ,ften da er;ed °n b°th sldes; lts surface smooth, bossed, or angular and I f0,;mS.(1)' IlS Si“ usual ly varie! b«wSn larger 7,? 1 i °n & ^ 8 h may’ however, be much Sometimes sever*? !™ ’ 'S °n y °ne St0ne in the bidder; but, SE'me (3j ’ Tn , ’ even as many M a hundred, exist at the same daces smooth grnCaSlS’ 16 St°nf’ as already remarked, are, in some * (a) AS,at- !’ g d away’ and variously formed, by lying against 1 !°\,e jn l,ie Iliaddcr in Great llritafn an2lreland^ r ^ i?” tbeComparative Infrequency of Urinnrv VOL TrRnS" V01- «*• l880. ’ Sns ' ZaI g Pe0ple ; iU Med-Chir ’ n' 2nSTONE IN THE BLADDER; 546 each other. According to their chemical composition, they vary i reference to their firmness, colour, and the like. In most instance.' the stone lies loosely at the bottom of the bladder; but not unfit quently it is attached at one place, which may occur in different way* First. The stone sticks in the orifice of the ureter, or, in escaping fron the ureter, it slips between the membranes of the bladder, and en larges, so that it lies in a cavity of its own, which communicates wit the bladder itself by a roundish opening. Second. It lies in a diverti culum of the bladder, or in a hernia of the bladder (4). Vhird. In man persons the inner surface of the bladder has a peculiar net-like disposi tion, by which fan-shaped hollows are formed ; and if the formation o a stone begin in one of these, the hollow is gradually enlarged, am the stone is, for the most part, overspread by the internal coat of tin bladder. In proportion as the stone increases, the enclosing mem brane stretches, so that it is connected to the other part of the bladdal merely by a neck (5). Fourth. Stones, which form in the prostah gland, may partially project into the bladder. Fifth. In consequent of the irritation of the stone, and the inflammation depending thereon : false membranes are formed by the exudation of plastic lymph, whiclj partially cover the stone. . Stones which are enclosed and held fast in one of the above ways ( Calcid saccati, Lat. ; Umschlossenen und festgehaltenen Stevie, Germ. ; Cal culs enehatonnes, Fr.) must be distinguished from the so-called adherent stones, ( Calcidi adherentes, Lat.; Anyewachsenen St cine. Germ.; Cal culs adherens, Fr.,) a term which can only apply to those cases in whicl excrescences, fungus, and polypi of the bladder become incrusted (a). C(l) In reference to those stones occasionally met with, and which being contracted in their middle, have somewhat the shape of an hour-glass, Taylor (b) observes:— “ It has been conjectured that in such cases they have been partly lodged m the orifice of the ureter or in a pouch of the bladder, and that the growth ot the «««'«'* has continued unobstructed at the two extremities, while it has been prevented in the middle by the constriction of the orifice. But the deposition of crystals, even on trn constricted portion, seems scarcely consistent with this explanation, unless it is ceived that they were deposited after the calculus had escaped into the cavitj oi bladder.” (p. 83.) . . , (2) The size of stones is very variable. The largest stone is, I believe, t Sir Walter Ogilvie, which is in the College Museum H 2, consisting o m phosphates: it weighs forty-four ounces, measures sixteen inches around its oug and fourteen around its short axis. Its origin seems to have been nee - having received a blow in his back from the boom of a vessel, '"hen "on • •. years of age; in consequence of which it was necessary to draw ott his w «. • a catheter for two months; and for a twelvemonth after he was obliged to ’ P bed, in a horizontal posture; his bladder, however, recovered its; powers.a J; years after, symptoms of stone having appeared, and sounding having leu , belief in the existence of a large stone, the operation was advised, but not as to. He continued to become worse, and towards the latter end ot bis me .. “make no water, without standing almost on his head, so as to cause the uppe 1 of his bladder to become the lower, and this he was obliged to do frequenu}, times every ten minutes, as the quantity voided each time was less than tne of a wine-glass. At last, however, thirty years after the accident, he was o g out, he was determined to have the stone removed, which could now he i fa the pubes, forming a large prominent tumour, and below it prevented the entr; of sound into the bladder. The operation was attempted by Cline, but n of sound into tne oiauuer. i ne operation was attempted by C line, uui **y ‘ 0f forceps could be introduced till a soft part of the stone having 'x'en ,°’ m0I.(, till, it was broken away with the finger, and then the forceps broke aw ay , (a) Houstet, Observations sur les Pierres en- nbovc cited, vol. i. p. 59->.- "lllB ’ kvstees et adherentes ii In vessie ; in Mem. dc cited, p.424. 1 'Acad, de Chirurgie, vol. i. p. 39j.—Deschamm, (i) College Catalogue, r»rt 1.FOliM AND SITUATION. 547 with the aid of the scoop, about a teacupful of fragments -was removed ; but the greater part of the stone remaining bard and impenetrable, and Sir Walter being much ex- hausted, the operation was given up: he died on the tenth day. The stone appeared moulded by the bladder; the lower part confined by the bony pelvis, with its im- pression, and was smaller than the upper part, which had projected so as to lie on the pubes (a). Of stones which have been removed, Astley Cooper mentions one in Trinity College, Cambridge, which weighs thirty-two ounces and seven drams; a cast in St. Thomas’s Museum of one which weighed twenty-five ounces ; another of sixteen ounces which he himself removed, but without success; one removed piecemeal, by Mayo (b), of Winchester, weighing fourteen ounces and two drams, and measuring eight inches and a half in its smallest, and ten in its largest diameter; one in the Museum of the Norfolk and Norwich Hospital, of eight ounces. The largest stone removed successfully by Astley Cooper, weighed near six ounces. Smith (c) mentions a cast in the Bristol Museum, of a stone which weighed ten ounces and a half, and measured nearly ten inches in circumference: the patient recovered in eleven weeks. In the Museum of the College there is a stone, A c 7, composed of three large uric acid stones, cemented together with mixed phosphates, which weighs seventeen ounces: it was removed by Cheselden, in St. Thomas’s Hospital, from a man fifty years of age, but he died the next day after the operation. As to the small size of stones, perhaps that often grains from a lad of thirteen years, and that of a few grains from a boy of sixteen, removed by Martineau <~d), mav be ;considered among the smallest. ' J (3) « The greatest number of stones I ever extracted in the operation of lithotomy ” says Astley Cooper, “ was one hundred and forty two, many of them about the size of nnj-bles. A great number of stones does not add much to the patient’s danger in the operatmn ; for it is not the frequent introduction of the forceps, but the violence which is used in extracting the stone or stones which produces mischief; thus the removal of one large stone, is more to be dreaded than that of many small.” (p. 233. j mOTybvT>en^Tw0f the C“Uenge ofiSurgeons, there is a fusible stone which was re- moved by Pott (e), from a vesical rupture m a boy of thirteen. “ When six years old hour andenZLdl7lth/n pain .ab°Ut the reSio“ of tl)e P^es, which lasted near an he conTd ^S ’ fn<i SUddrly CeasiDg he became the time his pain lasted he risid freelv' f °? T"’ th°ugb he endeavoured so to do, but as it ceased a nea In fn In ? feW dayS after a £ma11 tllmour was discovered, about the size of pea in the spermatic process just below the groin; it gave the child no pain and Wh“ it becameZS ; ,hough be .had Ilever any parn in his back and loins, and it was there- memdb^mitDhed ‘°“t Vlt ™ ^ by a cut the skin and cellular membranous kL !, length of the process and scrotum, which exposed a firm white ent f am°aUi dbagT 7$ ’ DaF°mng upwards, and being followed was found “ depend- Sfcw or wbliaaouSW,th a membranous duct, about the breadth of the largest ildomen throimh ““ t lke t0i a„hu“an ureter, which passed out from the ■he tumorfif h °peul"g the “Vfle- 0l1 dividing this duct, immediately above irc-senn l ’ f ounces of a clear fluid issued, and the mouth of the cyst expanding S uh7, f0Tl i”,he Uadd“- T» ^ c„n6 vhen a lajge stream of 7wl after so™e time directed to make water, ecovered g t f 'e flowed through the wound instead of by the urethra He ttovered. In the preparation the stone is enveloped in the cyst. 7 ittle^inreL'SlffreiftfT1E °f V an elderly pel's°n. who for the most part suffered isual symptoms of sW ‘be1d,sease> but eveiT now and then was suddenly' seized with hat it(!oesPun? n. . ♦ l d Tery severe ones too> seems to be of this kind except eeing is v“ Mr, " !avf, bad an>' neck, which as far as I have had opportunity of ied of pleuriL ^OnJir - T T f,Uryears ,after the detection of the disease, and n a cyst nearethe fvudusof t body>*°™d’’ says Brodie, “ the stone embedded mtrusion oftlu. Tn °t the bladder. The cyst was formed in this case, not by the «>h tunicle8 ofth“bladd^S^ZeKJ?fWeeD tbe. ”lar fibres, but by a dilatation of ade as would b^uoSed aw 38^l1 as jbe n,ucous- It was such a rccep- 'ight gradually hav-fm-idc lad long been resident in the bladder, y*t as to prevent it oceasimiv * St°,ne was 11 ot so closely embraced by the prevent ,t occasionally slipping out of it, and I suspect that this actually hap (c) Chlrurgicnl W rnns., vol. xi. p. 407. orks, vol. Hi. p. 324. 2 N 2STONE IN THE BLADDER; 548 pened, and that it was when the stone lay in the cyst, that the patient was free from the i usual symptoms of calculus, and that his sufferings took place when the stone escaped A from it into the general cavity of the bladder.’ (pp. 258, 59.) (C) Wickham (a) relates the case of a boy four years old, on whom he performed « the lateral operation, and met with some difficulty in extracting the stone; “ no untoward tne laierai operiiiiuu, unu nicL wiin oumc ~ e » — ;—— symptom occurred until about the eighth day, when the water returned to its accus- tomed course, which was attended by severe pain, the boy screaming very loudly at each effort to make water. This continued till the fourteenth day, the wound having appeared foul and the surrounding parts inflamed for two or three days previously, when a substance came away from the wound, having the following appearance. It ir a cyst, apparently of the same structure as the bladder; its size is sufficient to contain the calculus, which weighed two drams; the opening into it is just large enough to admit of its exit, and its whole internal surface is lined with calculous matter, in fact, studded with large pieces of calculi. * * * I have no hesitation,” says W ickhak, “ in pronouncing the substance voided by the wound to be a cyst, in which the stone was contained previous to the operation.” (p. 186.) I cannot agree with Wickham’*] was couiailieu JICVIUUB vva ill,. , , a conclusion on this point, as he states (in describing the operation) that the stone t*ing completely exposed, he passed in the forceps again, and took away the calculus without difficulty,” though he had done nothing more than dilating the gorget wound, which he thought had not been made sufficiently large, by a very slight effort with his finger. I do not think the stone had been encysted, not even by a false membrane, as here de- scribed by Chelius, but it seems to me corresponding precisely to the following cir- cumstance mentioned by Brodie “ It occasionally happens, that coagulated lymph is effused from the inflamed mucous membrane of the bladder. The inflamed raucous membrane also secretes the adhesive mucus which contains the phosphate ot lime. A portion of the phosphate of lime thus produced, mixed probably with some of the triple phosphate from the urine, is deposited on the lymph, and thus the incrustation tak place! It corresponds exactly to the incrustation of the wound of the perineum which occurs after lithotomy, where the operation is followed by the secretion of the same . ropy mucus from the bladder, (p. 2G0.) . A . m :n Brodie speaks of “ a class of cases which, being of rare occurrence do the present state of our knowledge to be of much practical importance, and quotes from a letter of Heister (b), “ the history of a patient who, having for a considerable time laboured under the symptoms of stone in the bladder, began to void by the uMhra what had all the appearance of portions of a larger calculus, broken down into fragmen of various shapes and sizes. The number of these fragments at lasit . than two hundred, and now the discharge ceased the symptoms.at the a^mieha g enhcldpd and the patient being restored to perfect health. In this instance, me charge of the fragments of the calculus was attributed to the use of th waters.’’ Prout mentions a case, in which, however, the same happened withoujtoe patient using mineral waters, or any kind of medicine; and Cross speaks alf0 fragments which he obtained from a gentleman after a ride on horeeback, as “ of twenty-two calculi removed after death, from a patient seventy i f g 1regular are of a very irregular shape, but admit of being so arrangedl *to.form‘ fcwrgwr and well-sbaped calculi, each of the size of a pigeon s egg, wh ^ ‘ b/^king of the different surfaces, proves that the calculi had broken w the trusted *tate of the aeainst each other under certain movements of the body. Iheinc ,the fractured surfaces proves, that the calculi were broken some time be ore ‘kjnd; in individual.” (p. 10.) Brodie, himself, has also seen three cases of the sani ; ^ one evident fragments of a larger calculus were voided by a young lady, • numerous email8calculi were voided next day after a journey, ^cb had tbe appe aC of having been recently broken, probably from the concussion of them against tbe other during the journey ; and a third, in which after or w , i: fragmrats having come away, the discharge of same time, relieved from all the symptoms under which he had lornur y (P,In°thc7 Museum at the Royal College of Surgeons there are several examples of similar broken stones.] In 2021 The symptoms of stone in the bladder are very •_ ^ (.VLk>MrfJcu*»,-»1.iii. ISM- mmT-,.1.™*^ against the other during the journey; and a third, in whicft alter orpf some mineral waters, “ he began to void with his urine broken P>e®“ “h irregular various shapes and sizes, but generally with one concave surface, amir 8 i ,,K as if tbe various lamina of which the calculi were composed bad $ghS beseparated from each other. After some time a pj “fie fragments having come away, the discharge tjtemcejeetl'549 SYMPTOMS. general, when the stone is primarily formed in the kidney, there is more or less severe pain in the kidney, and running along the ureter. This is wanting if the stone be first formed in the bladder itself, and especially i must not be considered as a certain and constant symptom. The patients t have a sensation of warmth or painful tickling in the glans penis, and * they, therefore, especially if children, are continually pulling the penis u about and drawing it away from the body. These sensations show tlieiri- selves at the beginning of the disease, but only when the patient exerts * himself violently, or the posture of his body is suddenly changed, or im- .i mediately after passing the last drops of urine. The orifice of the urethra I. is inflamed, as in a clap. The call to make water occurs very frequently, and whilst the water flows, there is a burning pain at the tip of the glans. The stream of urine is often suddenly interrupted ; the most insufferable pain occurs with severe forcing, and the urine only again begins to flow i when the patient changes his posture, lies on his back or the like. The ri discharge of the last drop of urine is attended with the most violent pain, i as the bladder then contracts upon the stone. The call to make water is i< accompanied with frequent forcing at stool, and often to such degree that v the rectum protrudes, and frequently the haemorrhoidal vessels swell from i the irritation of the bowel. The same also occurs in women, with the mvagina, which in a long continued state of irritation and inflammation, !< becomes the seat of constant mucous discharge, and often protrudes. The ■. urine passed is generally pale, limpid, and has a peculiar offensive smell, f If the patient keep quiet, the symptoms are usually slighter; but they ■^increase on every movement, in walking, riding on horseback, or in a ui scarriage, in which latter case the patient often feels as if a foreign body | fell from one part of the bladder to another; after violent movements f some drops of blood frequently flow from the urethra. The patient com- u plains not unfrequently of a painful drawing up of the testicles, accom- pamed with numbness along the inside of the thigh, sometimes runnino- ■ ik'Vn fVen ^ie He also often feels a tormenting violent pain in * *-ne sole of the foot, sometimes a slight sensation of numbness, or a trouble- ; some tickling. As the irritation of the stone on the walls of the bladder gcontmues, they are brought into a state of slow inflammation, the urine is mingled with much thick mucus; the walls of the bladder become thick- ' Ilk’,- contract around the stone, so that with diminished capacity, and inability of distension, the bladder can no longer retain the urine within 11™ dlscharges it every minute. The inflammation may extend to the RW-eters and kidneys, and it may cause ulceration and other kinds of de- KST In c°ose(Iuence of these symptoms, and of the constant pain 1 FTnu °f r6St a"d sleeP> the digestive organs are » P°WerS SInk’ and are at last clestro^ed with feoSu-TtieSrfkympt0mS Ur!derg0 vario,,s modifications according to the Kwl i °Th Patl6nt’ th.e natUre of the stone> and the place where it I usmodenffl T" Seilf1Ve patient is> the less regular and quiet n he mot I Ving’ 1 greater h“ brings. The lar|er the stone is, I [re S r ^ the Tpt°mS- With smooth stones, or with such as - oose Of an n “i® the syniPtoms are less; but with a stone lying Rent Tf H F I shaPe’ or of the mulberry kind, they are more vio- |<he bkdL ieil °e be(seated at the orifice of the ureter or in the neck of I er, the symptoms are more severe, and in the latter case it mav550 STONE IN THE BLADDER; hinder or prevent the discharge of urine ; it may, by irritating the open j ings of the spermatic ducts, produce painful priapism and swelling of th( testicles. A stone frequently causes no inconvenience if it be fixed aid* any one part of the bladder, and the pain only comes on when, by any movement or exertion, it is brought into another place. If a large stone be constantly at the bottom of the bladder, it may cause ulceration of it. 1 and also of the corresponding wall of the rectum, and in this way be dis- • charged. The same also may happen in women by ulceration of the wal of the vagina. Instances have, however, occurred in which even larg«. sj stones lying loose in the bladder have been borne for many years without l; having produced any particular inconvenience. Each several kind of stone has its own peculiar symptoms (Prout.) With uric aci<h;l stones they are generally less severe than with other kinds ; the urine is natural, bu 4 a little darker in colour; its specific gravity is greater than usual; on cooling, i : leaves a crystalline sediment mixed with mucus, which increases on any accidental j irritation; the urine, at first turbid, becomes clear by standing. With oxalate o .1 lime stones the symptoms are very violent, (I have, however, several times noticec: J the reverse,) and the urine is clear, and deposits neither uric acid nor phosphates*!* Stones composed of phosphates produce the most severe symptoms; the urine in thii® case is quite characteristically curdy, turbid, specifically light, deposits much phos q phate and mucus, sometimes is alkaline, putrid, stinking, and secreted in large quantity ;! and the constitution generally suffers considerably. 2023. The above-mentioned symptoms lead to the supposition rnereHj of the presence of a stone in the bladder ; a certain knowledge of it cat 1 only be obtained by examination with a sound, by the distinct feel of i >: hard resistance, and by the metallic tinkling. Examination (searchingtrj as it was formerly, and sounding, as it is now generally called) even, catqfl in many cases give only a doubtful result, or none at all; ^for^ instancetl with a very small stone, such as are for the most part or completely coverer by the inner membrane of the bladder, or by a false membrane, or ar*. enclosed in a diverticulum, of the bladder. As it depends on the sizea® nature, and position of the stone, whether it be touched by the beak o f the sound more readily or with difficulty, so, in making the examinail tion, the bladder must be gently felt all round, and the patient sounder with his bladder full and empty, and in different postures. _ Exaiuinatioi by introducing the finger into the rectum at the same time, may main easy the finding of the stone; and a large stone which lies in the botton of the bladder may often be distinctly felt by the finger in this way. Klein (a) observes that silver sounds, in very sensitive persons, often exci j siderable pain and contraction of the bladder, which interferes with the exami - of the stone ; whilst the iron sound, or even an elastic catheter, causes neither pa ^ contraction, and easily finds the stone. . k, , f(l) BRODiEsays:—“ In some cases a calculus which has not been aiscovereu s means of the sound is at once detected by means of the elastic gum catheter. 1 observation made by Sir Everard Home, the correctness of which I have had treq opportunity of verifying. The gum catheter should be introduced without tm. > stUette, while the patient is standing, with his bladder full of urine. You all j urine to How through the catheter, and, as the last portion of it comes away, the falls down on the extremity of the instrument, in withdrawing which you reel H ^u'may be^ well to^observe, that if the patient’s symptoms continue it will be righ <| sound him again and again at proper intervals, as the stone may increase m alter its position, so that at last, after repeated fruitless attempts during many it may be detected. This I have known in more than one or two instanccs. j cases however, though a stone really exists, it cannot be found by the most (a) Praluiache Ansichten dcr bcileutcmlsten Chirurgisclien Operationen, part iii. P-^-SYMPTOMS. 551 iJ'l IT it' w & w si'- W' •H i-> *b i ii n * iff »« BO til' in; tfri bounding, which happened to the celebrated Trench Surgeon, La. Peyronie, in whom the stone was only discovered after death. « There may be a stone,” Brodie observes, “ without the usual symptoms, and there may be many of the usual symptoms without a stone in the bladder. In children espe- cially, the deposition of lithic (uric) acid sand by the urine will not unfrequently pro- duce not only pain in the glans, but bloody urine, and all the other symptoms of stone in the bladder.” And he mentions the case of a boy who suffered severely, but no stone could be found after repeated soundings. “ I then inquired more particularly,” says he, “ into the child’s health in other respects, and the result was, that I was led to prescribe an occasional dose of calomel and rhubarb, with rhubarb and sal polychrest in the intervals; and under this simple plan of treatment all the symptoms disap- peared in the course of a few weeks.” (p. 275.) I have known a similar case as regards the symptoms in a child, of two and a half years, who suffered very severely ; a stone was believed to have been felt, and he was cut, but no stone found. No violence was used, nor the bladder irritated by continued use of the instruments; but it being soon discovered that there was no stone, he was put to bed, quickly recovered of the operation, and at the same time lost all symptoms of stone. A polypus in the bladder may sometimes, from its irritation, produce symptoms of stone, and, being struck by the sound, may lead to the operation. There is a case of this kind in the Museum at St. Thomas’s; the patient recovered from the operation, but died some time after, when the nature of the disease was ascertained.—J. F. S.] 2024. By sounding, information can, to a certain degree, be obtained of the size and other conditions of the stone. If the stone be large, it is always felt at the point of the sound, whatever direction be given to it; if small, it frequently slips away, and is only felt at intervals ; if it be bossed, the sound is often caught. Hard stones give a clear, and soft ones a dull sound ; but in reference to this point the feel is often very deceitful. When a stone does not lie loose in the bladder, but is lodged in a sac, the sound, as it does not touch it directly, gives a feel which cannot decidedly distinguish between a stone and a fungous growth or other swelling on the inner surface of the bladder. Leroy d’Etiolle (a) has invented an instrument for measuring urinary stones ; it is easy, however, with the greatest care, to be deceived by it, as it is difficult to avoid grasp- ing the stone again and again in the same diameter. The best lithometer is, according to the observations of Sanson and Pigne, the common sound. When the stone is found, the beak of the instrument is to be carried to the hind end of the stone, and then brought gently forwards, moving it at the same time gently on its axis. At each motion the stone is felt, and if it be noticed how far the sound projects from the urethra, at the moment it touches the hind end of the stone, and how much further it projects at the time when the stone can no longer be felt, then the diameter of the stone from behind forwards may be determined. For the purpose of ascertaining the lateral diameter, the sound must be carried from one side to the other, and the extent noted through which its handle passes, by which means the lateral diameter can be measured. In order to hear distinctly the stroke of the sound upon the stone, and to guard against mistake, if the stone be covered with mucus, or if a hard part of the wall of the bladder be touched, it has been proposed to apply the ear to the pubic region. Moreau and Berier have added a stethoscope to the sound. Pfhiem (6) also, and Leroy d’Etiolle use a long elastic tube, the upper end of which is furnished with a stethoscope. [It is often difficult to ascertain the size of a stone, as its position may render it more or less accessible to the sound, and when its diameters are unequal the sound may travel upon it in such way as to give a notion of its size very contrary to that it really has. 1 he readiness with which the stone is struck immediately on the entrance of the sound into the bladder, and the less or greater ease with which it can be displaced are probably among the best means of concluding satisfactorily as to its bulk; and more especially if e time during which the patient has had symptoms of the disease be taken into the account; as if these have existed long, it may be expected the stone is large, whilst the contrary may be presumed if the symptoms have been recent.—J. F. S.] (?) -journal general de Medecine, vol. cix. p. 5. 1829. "ur/.tmrg j'j.j”SC0P °d'--r Ucsclireibung eines Instrumcntcs r.ur slclioron Diagnose der Ilarnblasen steine.552 STONE IN THE BLADDER; CONSTITUTIONAL SOLVENTS; 2025. The following are the various modes of treatment recornmende< gj and employed for the removal of stone in the bladder:— First, The internal use of stone solvents (Lithontriptics.) Second, The injection of solvents into the bladder. Third, Solution by means of the galvanic pile. Fourth, Extraction of the stone through the urethra. Fifth, Breaking up the stone in the bladder (Lithotrih/.) Sixth, The operation of cutting for the stone (Lithotomy.) 2026. The stone-solvents, which in former times were used in so great number, although without any knowledge of their possible operation, car. only by the advance of chemistry, and by a precise knowledge of the con- stituents of stone in the bladder, attain their proper application and effi- ciency. The circumstances which have been considered in the treatmenl of gravel also apply here. {par. 2011-2013.) For stones consisting oi $ uric acid, alkalies, for those of phosphates, the use of acids have been t recommended, with corresponding dietetic treatment. In regard to acids,:: it must also be added, that they operate only against the phosphatic . diathesis, and probably have no effect in dissolving stones, except by in- jection. Many empirical remedies consist principally of alkalies, as Stephens’s remedy, and others. Some, as so many of the vegetable remedies, operate only by alleviation, through the large quantity of drink combined with their use. Many mineral waters: operate both ways. 2027. The efficacy of these remedies has been too highly valued by many practitioners, and by others too much decried. If we cannot expect by the use of these remedies to dissolve large stones, yet, however, their increase may be prevented, the symptoms caused by the stone diminished, and small stones perhaps got rid of. Under circumstances which forbid the removal of a large stone by operation, or after the performance of an operation, to get rid of the diathesis producing stone, their employment is always very advantageous. Upon the effect of pure water see Littre (a); of Stephens’s remedy, see Morand(b), Baume (c); of lime water, see White, R. (d), Buri.et (e), Segalas (_/"), Langier (o' , of magnesia, see Brande (h), Hoffmann (i); of carbonate of soda, see Mascagni (A Magendie (k), Leroy (l); of bicarbonate of soda, see Genois (in); of the mineral ™ waters of Vichy see Charles Petit (n). _ , J Upon the operation of these different remedies, various experiments have been mace, and especially the efficacy of the waters of Vichy proved by A. Chevalier (o). j Even when, by the continued use of alkalies,the inconveniences of stone in the blaaaer are arrested; there is, according to Howship (p), no proof that it is dissolved; for, I.—Internal Use of Stone Solvents. (Remedia lithontriptica, Lat.; Steinauflosenden Mittel, Germ.) (a) Mem.del’Acad.des Sciences. 1720. p.436. (/) Expose des divers precedes employes j<u*qu * ce jour pour guerir de la Pierre satis avoir recours a l'opemtioii de Taille, p. 59. Paris, 1825. /• 1 t. w !• 1*1 .NV 1 Hi r. 1 U|U 1IIUVII UC 1 •» ■ 1 IV , p. «. • - — 7 p , (m) Revue Medicate, 1S2S. vol. iii. p- 3iJ- . 'TnMemorie della Societa Italiana, vol. xi. No.34. A 1 aito.1 k) Above cited. (p) Above cited, p. 102.INJECTED SOLVENTS. 553 | kv the specific effect of the alkalies on the bladder, its coats are relaxed, and so a sac is • formed by the weight of the stone. If, then, the disturbance of the digestion, which has . followed the use of alkalies, render the employment of tonic remedies necessary, whereby i the muscular activity of the bladder is again excited, the bladder contracts completely t around the stone, and encloses it in a blind pouch. Others have imagined, that by the ) alkalescence of the urine thus produced, a deposit of phosphates upon the stone takes place, by which the irritating effect upon the bladder is lessened. | [The best instance of a stone having undergone partial solution whilst in the bladder is , Liston’s case, C. f. 8, in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons. It was removed i by operation. “ The external surface of the calculus is very rough and uneven, and in some places is eaten into small holes, which are excavated, or, as it were, undermined at their sides. Its section shows that the concentric layers of uric acid, of which the A calculus is composed, are not continued entirely round it, but terminate abruptly at those # parts which correspond to the excavations on the surface, as if a portion of the calculus at these points had been either broken away or dissolved. That these effects, however i produced, must have taken place whilst the calculus was in the bladder, is shown by the layer of the earthy phosphates covering all its irregularities” (a).] II.—Injection of Solvents into the Bladder. 2028. Injections into the urinary bladder, which had long been recom- i mended and employed for the solution of stone, were first subjected to ii definite rules by Fourcroy and Vauquelin (b). The solution of uric . acid and urate of ammonia was to be effected by diluted alkalies ; those >! composed of phosphates, by dilute hydrochloric acid ; and those of oxa- late of lime, by dilute nitric acid. With the view of acting more ' powerfully upon the stone, without subjecting the bladder itself to the i irritating and solvent materials, it has been endeavoured to enclose the f stone in a bag which could withstand the effect of the injection ; for | which purpose Percy, Civiale, and Leroy (c) have made some propo- ; sals, and Robinet (d) has recommended a peculiar apparatus, by which '■ the stone may be enclosed in a bag made of intestine, and the injection made by means of a catheter with a double passage. ! Phospbatic stones of triple phosphate and lime, are said not to be dissolved by solu- | »uons of alkaline bicarbonates, but broken up and converted into powder. Oxalate of Mime stones are liable to the same change. (Willis.) A. Ube recommends the use I' ° iuPPunc acKb (carbonate of lithia,) from which, however, according to Garrod’s and Keller’s experiments, but little advantage can be expected. Berzelius who ’ ftas expressed himself favourably as to the possibility of the success of injections, and ■ nas recommended frequent trials, proposes a lukewarm mixture, of one part of car- J IT P°tash and nine hundred parts of water, with some mucilage: and in cases where the stone consists of uric acid, a solution of borax. B 20:29. With the purpose of effecting the solution of the stone by the p.xmtinued flow of a large quantity of water, or of some chemical solvent ctrcithuisen (e) has proposed an apparatus, and Cloquet ( f) has 1 ecommended again the double-passaged catheter previously proposed by 203°. Opinions as to these modes of treatment differ as much as I \Z9 Tn mternal irCTtmerT There are sti11 but few facts which - rove the efficacy of this plan of proceeding. The frequent variety n-eat rih^T f St°ne mUSt "ot indeed be considered as a very LReat obstacle to this treatment, as, partly by the nature of the urine, i'T (n\ . ~ 1 (?? T,W°'‘’s Catalogue, part i. p. 92. »>. 7ft, Mem°,res de Ia Soc- '1’Emulat., vol. ii. . ___ B («) Above cited t> «8 £?) ^lib. Mod’.-Chir. Zeit.’ Cof.'’i. p. 289. 1813. ’ * , . —I KXTOR; in same, vol. ii. p. 94. (/) In Leroy, above cited, pi. ii. f. 7. (d) Report, gen. d’Anat. et Physiol, pathol. et de Clin. Chir., vol. i. Paris, 1826.554 STONE IN THE BLADDER; by the result of the injections, by the modes of treatment, to be men- tioned when crushing the stone is treated of, by the extraction of sin<d fragments of stone, its character at different periods can be ascertained Stones of oxalate of lime would be dissolved with most difficulty (a). The most recent experiments made on this subject are those of Pelouze {b), fror which it appears—First, that the effect of different agents upon urinary stones is les upon the substances of which they consist, than upon the animal matter. Theoperlf ration proceeds very slowly, even out of the bladder. Second, that by drinks an- ■ baths a cure is scarcely ever effected. Third, that the result of injections, althoug they act more powerfully, is problematical, and the danger of inflammation is in : counterbalanced, as in lithotrity, by a quick destruction of the stone. Fourth, tka , although the combination of lithotrity with injections increases the probability of sue cess, yet it is most advisable to proceed with lithotrity (c). [Prout observes:—“ When the very weak state of the solvent that can be injected int : the bladder is taken into account, the consequent length of time necessary for continu ing the experiment, and above all the refractory nature of certain calculi, I confess am very much disposed to doubt if any solvent at present known can, in the grea majority of instances, be ever so administered as to produce the desired effect; any this, I believe, is the general opinion on the subject.” (p. 284.)] “ It has been observed by chemists,” says Brodie, “ that lithic acid admits of being dissolved by a strong solution of pure or caustic alkali. It has been also observer ! that calculi composed of the phosphates are acted on by the mineral acids, and it may no' unreasonably be entertained as a question, how far those changes, which take place out o the body, may be produced while the calculus is still in the bladder of a living person * * * I fear those who have expected by these methods to relieve patients of lithic acic calculi, have much overrated the effects of alkaline lixivia on them. The fact is, tha although alkalies certainly are capable of acting on this kind of calculus, their action except when employed in a very concentrated form, is so inconsiderable, as to amount almost to nothing. Neither the stomach nor the bladder is capable of bearing the quan - tity of alkali which is necessary to the production of the desired effect; and even if they were, it would be impossible to maintain so constant a supply of the alkali as would be necessary to the destruction of a calculus of even moderate dimensions. Mr.- Brande, moreover, has observed, that the carbonate of potass and soda have no action on lithic acid ; that they are incapable of dissolving it; and that if the pure alkali be taken by the mouth, it never reaches the bladder in this state, but only in that of a carbonate ; and here then is an insuperable objection to all attempts to dissolve lithic (uric) acid calculi by means of alkalies taken into the stomach. When there is a lithic (uric) acid calculus in the bladder, and the lithic acid diathesis prevails hi the system, the first effect of alkalies taken into the stomach is to render the urine neutral; thus preventing the further increase of the calculus. So far, then, alkalies are useful. But if they are administered in still larger quantity, so as to render the urine alkaline, the phosphates begin to be deposited. The calculus then continues to grow even more- rapidly than before; but its composition is altered, and layers of the triple phosphate are deposited on the lithic acid nucleus. Such is the view of the subject taken by Mr. Brande.” (p. 290-92.) . Brodie shows the fallacy of the statements in reference to the presumed solution o stone, by observing that the fragments occasionally passing, are to, be referred to frac- ture of the stone from mechanical causes, as already mentioned ; or that the suppose lill U V-Cl CIO ten mtuuoutu 5 * • fragments are in reality new formations, and the result of the medicines employed. lltl^lilClito tilt, iti icaiiij ‘wu cut iiiuuvuDj v As to the cessation of the symptoms, it is no proof the solution of the stone, as ny w - use of medicine, a fresh coating may be given to it of a less irritating character, am the stone still exist, as in the case of Admiral Douglas mentioned by Astle Cooper (d). . , - Brodie, however, considers that “ the mineral acids undoubtedly exercise a urea chemical action on calculi composed of the phosphates than alkalies do on those w ic are composed of lithic (uric) acid. * * * I found that where the membrane of the bladder was not inflamed at all, or inflamed only in a slight deg ^ the proportion of nitric acid might be increased to two minims or two minims ana hall'of the concentrated acid to an ounce of distilled water, without auy ill cousequ fa) In the British and Foreign Quarterly Me- dical Review, vol. xii. p. 398 ; and also in Jones, ollc ‘ ’ ! ' *“ l'Acad. des Sciences p. 1 IS, all has been collected in reference to the eftects’of Injections upon Stones. (b) Comptcs-rendus de vol. xiv. p. 499. 1842. (c) Wii.lik and .ToNts, above cited. (rf) Lectures on Surgery, vol. n. P- -’*■555 SOLUTION BY GALVANISM—EXTRACTION BY URETHRA. or even inconvenience arising from it. I next endeavoured to ascertain to what extent a solution of this strength was capable of acting on a calculus of the mixed phosphates, i The change produced was sufficiently obvious, especially when the solution was made i to pass over the calculus in a stream for a considerable time. It gradually diminished i in size, and at last began to be broken down into minute fragments.” For this purpose he at first used a gold catheter with a double channel, through which a constant current was kept up ; but afterwards found an elastic gum bottle with a stop-cock, and elastic i! gum tube attached to it. He first washed out the bladder with distilled water to get rid t of the mucus lodged in it, aud then injected the solution of nitric acid very slowly, , using the same liquid over and over again several times. The liquid was afterwards t tested with a highly concentrated solution of pure ammonia, and it was found that if ik the ammonia was added in sufficient, but not too large quantity, the phosphates were £ i precipitated in abundance. Hence he concludes, ‘-first, that a calculus, composed exter- v nally of the phosphates, may be acted on by this injection, so as to become gradually > reduced in size, while it is still in the bladder of a living person ; second, that there is | reason to believe that small calculi, composed throughout of the mixed phosphates, such c as one met with in some eases of diseased prostate gland and bladder, are capable of t being entirely dissolved under this mode of treatment, and that it is probable that it } may therefore be applied with advantage to some of these cases, in which, from the 3 contracted state of the bladder, or from other circumstances, the -extraction of such & calculi by means of the urethra-forceps, cannot be accomplished.” (p. 292-99.)] III.—Of Dissolving Stone by means of the Galvanic Pile. 2031. Gruithuisen (b) rests his proposal of dissolving urinary stone i by the action of the galvanic pile, upon Desmortier’s experiments. • Prevost and Dumas (c) have made experiments both out of the body and i upon animals. The apparatus consists of an elastic catheter, containing two platina conductors, covered with silk throughout their whole length, ? except at their ends, which are kept apart by a spring, and attached to an ivory knob, which closes the opening of the catheter. This knob is com- > posed of two hemispheres, each of which is attached to a conductor, so : that the flat surfaces where the platina is exposed, comes in contact with the stone. An injection of diluted nitric acid renders the galvanic pile more active than water alone. With this treatment, no experiments have yet been made on men. 1 [Jn 1844 an American named Hull, in London, attempted to dissolve stone in the 'I bladder by galvanism, but I do not know with what success. The patient had stone ' for I sounded and felt it.—J. F. S.] . W*—Of the Extraction of the Stone through the Urethra. 2032. The shortness and extensibility of the urethra in females, and the not unfrequent spontaneous passage of stones of considerable’size, ' have led to the extraction of stones in women, by dilating the urethra. > - Circumstances are less favourable in men, and the instances of void- > • ance of large stones by them are much rarer. According to Prosper i ! Alpinus (a), the dilatation was specially suited to men, and was per- \' o™**1 among the Egyptians by blowing air into the urethra through tubes of increasing size, after which the stone was pressed into the neck oi the bladder by the finger introduced into the rectum, (in women the anger was.placed in the vagina,) and then the stone was brought out by sucking vigorously at the penis. Enlargement of the diameter of the urethra to five lines can be effected in men only with much trouble: in s cases such extension is unbearable. Small stones, therefore, can («) Above cited. - > i All W,2? PI'ySifl"°’ V0,‘ xxiii‘ P- 202‘ 1823.—Lekoy. Alteration or the Apparatus, C) De MedlcinS AJg'yp't., p.224. I.ngd. Batav., 1719.556 STONE IN THE BLADDER; alone be extracted in this way from men, and the enlargement of tin 1 urethra is best effected by increasingly thick elastic sounds. When tin urethra has been sufficiently enlarged, the patient must hold his water bend himself forwards, and as the sound is withdrawn quickly, the sinal ts stone escapes with the stream of urine, or is extracted by a peculiar pai ; of forceps (1). For enlarging the female urethra, Weiss’s dilator i: < used (2). Forceps of this kind had been formerly proposed by Sanctorius and Severing? and Hunter’s forceps had been employed for the same purpose (a). Astley Cooper’ forceps (b) are especially applicable. According to him such little stones are alway lodged in a sac of the bladder behind the enlarged prostate gland, and are ffequentl; notBdiscovered, if in sounding, the point of the instrument be not directed towards tb< rectum, or the front of the rectum pushed up by the finger introduced into it (3). [(1) Brodie, for this purpose, directs the introduction of “ a bougie, or a metalli.. sound, of such a size as the urethra will admit without inflammation being induced: I Every day, or every other day, according to circumstances, introduce one a little larger ■ and thus you may dilate the urethra gradually, until it is a good deal larger than iti! natural size. * * * When this process has been carried as far as it can be, let thi patient drink plentifully of diluting drinks. It may be worth while even to give some of the compound spirit of juniper or other diuretic, at the same time, and the calculw t will probably, some time or other, be carried by the current of urine into the dilated urethra or, “ once daily introduce a large bougie into the urethra and bladder, and there let it remain ; then let the patient drink plentifully of barley water, or toast anc water, or weak tea, so that the bladder may become loaded with urine. When the patient can bear the distension of it no longer, let him place a vessel on a chair, stand- ing, and leaning forward over it; on the bougie being withdrawn, the urine will follow in a full stream, and the calculus may probably accompany it.” (pp. 281, 82.) (2) In the female the urethra being short will easily dilate of itself, and even per- mit the passage of a stone weighing an ounce, as in a case mentioned by Astley: Cooper; and, “ unless a stone be extremely large,” he says, “ it should be removed by dilatation of the urethra, which may, by a speculum or pair of forceps, be opened sum ficiently in a few minutes for this purpose. The advantage attending this mode of extracting a stone is, that the passage again contracts, and the urine is afterwards retained. In the first case in which I performed this operation in Guy’s Hospital, having used sponge tent, the patient perfectly recovered in a very few days.” (pp. 301, 302.) This is not, however, always the case, for sometimes the urethra is long before it recovers its tone, and consequently during that period there is a tiresome inconti- Liston (c) saysThe best mode of extracting foreign bodies from the female bladder is to widen the urethra gradually by means of the screw dilator, then, by the in- duction of a straight blunt-pointed knife, to notch the neck of the bladder sligb y towards each ramus of the pubes, so as to divide the dense fibrous band encircling it; the dilatation is continued, and in a few minutes the finger can be admitted, stone then can be readily grasped by a pair of forceps ; and it is astonishing how large a body may be removed by these means.” (p. 525.) (3) The urethra forceps, commonly called Cooper’s, were the invention ot -n the instrument-maker, which Brodie considers objectionable, as “ it is difficult explore with it every part of the bladder, and in opening the blades the neck ot u bladder is always painfully dilated;” and he prefers another instrument afterwards invented by the same maker, and “ composed of two pieces of steel, one sliding longi- tudinally in a groove of the other. The extremity which enters the bladder is curvet, but not in the manner of the common catheter, the curve being more abrupt am <- curved part considerably shorter. When the forceps is to be opened the sliding pa is drawn towards the handle, and thus the blades, in being separated, are sti11 Kepi parallel to each other; they are closed by an opposite movement. ,, ’ r,„i should be laid on his back, and it is generally better that Ins pelvis should besuppo by a thick cushion, so that it may be higher than his shoulders. The first step of the operation is to introduce a silver catheter, and thus empty its contents. From fiv' ounces of tepid water are then to be injected into the bladder, so as to distend it. n ^ rately If any considerable portion of the water should escape, the injection sho (a) Leroy, above cited. (70 Medico-Cliirurg. Trans., vol. w. p. 359, pi. vi. (c) Practical Surgery. 1820.557 CRUSHING, OK LITHOTRITY. b repeated, it being absolutely necessary that the operation should never he attempted on an L bladder. The forceps is next introduced, and, of course, with the blades closed. | It is first to be used as a sound, so as to ascertain the exact situation of the calcidus. If t this be not readily detected, the patient may be directed to turn on one side, placing c himself on his back again afterwards, by which change of position the calculus may pro- si bably be made to roll into some more convenient place within reach of the forceps. The * blades of the forceps are then to be cautiously opened over the calculus, and afterwards b closed upon it. By this simple management, with a light hand, the calculus is seized 3 with facility in many cases, otherwise you may adopt the following method, which rarely | fa;is: Let the forceps be opened with the convexity of its blades pressed against that part k of the bladder which is towards the rectum, so as to make it the lowest or most depending K situation. Then, by a slight motion given to the handle of the instrument, the calculus | ;s made to roll into its grasp, and thus I have often been enabled to remove several small stones at once. * * * When the calculus is grasped you may know exactly its I diameter by means of a scale fixed to the handle of the forceps.” If small, Brodie says, * forceps and stone may be withdrawn at once; if very large, so that it will not enter the urethra, it may be dropped at once, and other means resorted to ; but if of intermediate size, and capable of entering the urethra, from the easy dilatability of the neck of the |J bladder, so as to be “ drawn into that portion of the canal which lies in the perineeum, I and there stops, it may then be very distinctly felt through the integuments behind the scrotum ; and if a small incision be made on it in this situation, it is easily extracted, the forceps, after the removal of the stone, being closed and withdrawn in the usual manner.” An elastic catheter must be left in to draw off the water and prevent drib- bling through the wound. If the forceps and stone can be brought forward and only “ meet an impediment in the anterior part of the canal, that is, at the external orifice or exactly at the anterior part of the scrotum, or somewhere in the intermediate space; if the impediment be close to the orifice that part is easily dilated by means of a probe- pointed bistoury ; and if it be in another part of the canal, you may remove it by means of an incision made through the skin, corpus spongiosum, and membrane of the urethra. Let me caution you, however, never to make such an incision into the urethra immediately in front of the scrotum. It is difficult when you do so, even by the constant retention > tiof an elastic gum catheter, to prevent a small quantity of urine finding its way into the » Boose cellular texture of the scrotum, and this may be productive of a succession of trou- Itr blesome abscesses, or even of dangerous consequences.” (p. 283-87.)] V.—Of Crushing the Stone. wKLithotritia, Lithotripsia, Lat.; Zertriimmerung des Steines, Germ.; Lithotritie, Lithotripsie, Fr.) Leroy d’Etioi.le, Expose des diverses precedes pour guerir de la Pierre sans l’Ope- i ration de la Taille. Paris, 1825. Civiale, Destruction des Calculs sans avoir recours a la Taille. Paris, 1823. • , De la Lithotritie, ou Broiement de la Pierre dans la Yessie. Paris, 1826. 8vo. Bancal, Manuel pratique de la Lithotritie. Paris, 1829. Tanchon, Nouvelle Methode pour de'truire la Pierre dans la Vessie sans operation re! sanglante. Paris, 1830. )' Hegrteloup, Lettre a l’Acad. des Sciences. Examen critique de l’Ouvrage de M. le rU Dr. Civiaee, intitule, De la Lithotritie, Broiement de la Pierre dans la Vessie &c . Paris, 1827. 8vo. 77-, Principles of Lithotrity, or a Treatise on the Art of extracting the Stone without m ■ ncision. London, 1831. 8vo. ■ , Cases of Lithotrity. London, 1831. 8vo. Leroy d’Etiolle, De la Lithotripsie. Paris, 1836. ; Civiale, Parallele des divers Moyens de traiter les Calculeux. Paris, 1836. •, Traite de l’Affection Calculeuse. Paris, 1838. »;• 3 Schleiss VON Lowenfeld, Die Lithotripsie in Bezug auf Geschichte, Theorie und j raxis derselben unter Benutzung der neuesten Erfalirungen der Franzosischen Aerzte ‘Lneruber. Miinchen, 1839; with eight plates. I i \V')Ncmc,r’ V , Kritische Beleuchtung der Blasenstein-Zertriimmerung, wie sie heute ■1(1 lias teht. Wien, 1842.558 STONE IN THE BLADDER; 2033. Although hints about the extraction of an urinary stone aft< r' previously crushing it in the bladder, are found in Celsus (1) and Ai bucasis (2), and the successful experiments of two persons upon then: ;! selves have been recorded (3), yet Gruithuisen (a) made the first actuE ;ji proposal, in which, by means of a straight tube introduced into tb i < bladder, and a wire loop projected out of it, the stone being held fast, ws*l 1 penetrated by a borer or trepan passed through the tube, and the crushin of the small pieces effected by the introduction of forceps through the tube 4 >j this was not thought anything of, and partly because the proposed metho [a was considered impracticable. Even Elderton’s (h) instrument, curveJ like the common catheter, and with two opening arms, by which the ston A might be grasped and destroyed by means of a file, was not much regarded* (1) Celsus (c) says:—“ Calculus fendendus est. Id hoc modo fit. Uncus injicituf calculo, ut facile eum concussum teneat, ne is retro revolvatur ; turn ferramentum adhA bitur crassitudinis modicm, prima parte tenui, sed retusa, quodadmodum calculum e: i altera parte ictum fendit.” (2) Albucasis (d):—“ Let a slender instrument betaken * * * and gently introduced into the penis; roll the stone into the middle of the bladder, and if it be soft, let it b ! broken and discharged.” According to Haller (e), Sanctohius described a three-armed catheter, through which a stilette with a file end was passed, and the stone broken up, and the piece., having been seized by the branches of the catheter, were removed. (3) The former of these persons introduced, by means of a flexible sound passed ink; the bladder a straight steel rod with its extremity ground to a point, down to the stone: and struck upon the outer end of the rod, in consequence of which little pieces wen separated from the stone and voided with the urine (4). The latter, by means of ai I elastic sound, carried down a fine file, about thrice in every twenty-four hours, betweei . the stone and the bladder, and used it as a file upon the stone, which he endeavoured ti bring near the neck of the bladder (5). (4) This (f) the celebrated case (“ if well proved,” as Chaussier and Percy observer of the Monk of Citeaux, and to the notice above given may be added, that having intro- duced the rod, he struck its end with a hammer with some little sharp sudden strokes j sufficient to detach some little pieces and splinters, which were carried off by the urine and with which in the course of a year he filled a little box. (5) This person was General Martin, (g) who gives the following account of his pro ceedings :—“ As I generally found the stones by the neck of the bladder, it suggestedtr me that by making a catheter with small holes on the side, I perhaps could break th< sharp points of the stones by passing the catheter between the stones and bladder; this by a small catheter I could introduce between the stones and bladder, and I succeeded ir bringing many small pieces away, and after no more. But as I constantly found the* stones, my good genius.suggested me to make files, and by introducing them on the catheter, and with small motion, I either filed or scraped the whole stones out during about nine months. When I could not get at the stones, I injected warm water in the bladder, which I rejetted or urined out with force, and large stream, and mostly always the stone came to the neck of the bladder and stopped the water, then it was my time to file again, which I did, inclining my body against the wall for to be able to keep the* stones as much as I could in position to be able to fill it often. * * * As I saw my pro* gress by many small pieces which I still have, besides the sand, or fine sandy part, it made me persevere in that mode till I brought every' piece out, and then, afterwards, 1 found myself able to walk, ride, &c., as every body else, which I had not done for many years; and I made water very well, though still always a little matter preceded the urine, and also by straining, some few drops came out after the urine.” (pp. 251, 252.) How long time was occupied in this process is not mentioned, nor does it appear how long he lived after having, as he stated, thus relieved himself. He died in 1800, and in the note (a) Salzburg Med.-Chir. Zeitung, vol. i. p.289, f. 1-9. 1813. (b) Edinb. Med. and Surg. Journ., vol. xv. p. 261, f. 1,2,3. 1819. (c) De Medicinii, book vii. cliap. lii. sect. iii. (d) Lilicr Theoricaj necnon Practice. fol. Aug. Vind., 1519. p. 94. (e) Blblioth. Chinirg., vol. i. p. 313. (/) Rapport fait a 1'Academic Royale Sciences, par Chacssifr et Pkkcv, sur le .no“" veau moycn du Dr. Cjviale, p. 171. P»ri\i ,‘ (o) IIomk, Practical (Ibservations on the ire ment of Diseases of the Prostate Gland, vol. 1818.359 CRUSHING, OR LITHOTRITY. £ appended to the letter. Everard Home says:—“ There can be no doubt, but tbe diseased g, state of the prostate gland was the cause of his death, since tbe pain of the urine passing ii over its surface was greater than he could well bear. From his own confession of having , a fit of the gravel, after he had brought the stones away, and being obliged to tickle the head of the penis before be could make a drop of water, I am strongly disposed to be- lieve, that had the body been inspected, more than one stone would have been found in 1 the bladder.” (p. 259.)] 2034. The path first cleared by Gruithuisen has been retrodden by 1 Civiale, Leroy D’Etiolle and Amussat, and the instruments they ! have advised, which correspond with those proposed by Gruithuisen, ire to a certain extent to be considered merely modifications of his. For his reason the contention between Civiale and Leroy D’Etiolle is of less consequence, as even the straightness of the instrument, the result of A-MUSSat's observations, had been already proposed by Gruithuisen. In other respects, however, the merits of these Surgeons are not diminished, is by their emulation this operation has been perfected and subjected to lefinitive rules; and as also it was first performed by Civiale on living aersons, and not merely brought into practice but its permanence ensured. Besides Civiale, Leroy D’Etiolle and Amussat have most contri- juted to the improvement of the instruments, Jacobson, IIeurteloup md Charriere’s inventions especially, to the simplification and greater .•ertainty of the practice, so that of late years this operation has been nought to a great degree of simplicity and perfection. 9 2035. The numerous instruments recommended for flm nr<m*Lo «t ld, and others (a). (a) Above cited.560 STONE IN THE BLADDER; 2036. The history of lithotrity affords a sufficient opportunity f<; | deciding on the fitness of these various instruments. Those whici|l effect a gradual rubbing away of the surface of the stone have nevpl enjoyed any particular favour. The perforating instruments, althougJ ,i they led to the direct introduction of lithotrity, have been set asich a by Jacobson’s lithoclast ; and both have been, to a certain degree * supplanted by Heurteloup’s percuteur. From a close examination i ^ the three-limbed perforating forceps of Civiale, and Leroy, of Jacoe , u son’s instrument, of Heurteloup’s percuteur, vvitli screw and hammem or a pignon, there seem to be good grounds for their employment and effect k 2037. The three-limbed, perforating forceps are indeed generally ir { troduced with ease ; but there are circumstances in reference to th' state of the prostate, which may render their introduction difficult and even impossible. In general they readily grasp a large stone; bu the entrance of a large stone between their branches may be difficult : and it may also be exceedingly troublesome to grasp a small stone their expanded branches may also injure a corresponding number t points on the walls of the bladder. When the stone is grasped it can not easily escape, its rubbing into fine powder is very favourable fo its discharge ; but at its final breaking up, there still remain frag, ments the grasping and crushing of which is very difficult. Henc arises’the tediousness of this method; the stone must be grasped, born and let go, must be again grasped and bored, till it can at last be broke, t up. These manoeuvres are difficult, tedious, and painful, to both patien i and operator. One limb of the forceps may get into one of the bore holes, from which it is freed with difficulty; the perforator itself, if i operate on an irregularly-shaped stone, and which is perforated at on part, may act upon one arm of the forceps, and injure, or even break it. 2038. Jacobson’s instrument is easily introduced; searching for am grasping the stone with it is less dangerous, as when it is opened, tb stone almost of itself gets into it; on account of its curve, however it is difficult to sound certain parts of the bladder—for instance, nea its neck. Flat stones are always seized with more difficulty by it thai by the three-limbed forceps, and not always easily fixed. The stone i sometimes broken slowly, without pain, and without the pieces stnkini injuriously against the walls of the bladder. No stone can resist it action (Dufuytren, Pigne') ; and if the instrument should break its pieces remain connected with the body of the instrument, and J giving it the proper direction, may be withdrawn with it, withou dano-er or difficulty. The dimensions of the instrument, however, may be so large that it cannot grasp a large stone ; it is, therefore, suitabl- only for small stones. It is, above all, necessary that the stone shou c be caught in the middle, as otherwise it is difficult to fix, and easily escapes. Lastly, the remainder of the stone may continue attached to th< branches of the instrument, and render its withdrawal difficult, or evet impossible : this awkward circumstance is, however, prevented by u* boy’s modification. # , . , 2039 Heurteloup’s percuteur is most easily of all introduced ini and managed when in, the bladder. Stones of every shape and size cai be firmly grasped by it, and their escape is less to be feared than fron any other*instrument. The position of the stone, when smed, can b. anv other instrument. mo^e easily changed, its size measured, and every part of the bladder mCRUSHING, OR LITHOTRITY. 561 readily examined, by the angular curve of the instrument. Its operation is powerful and quick ; large stones can he crushed with it more quickly and with less effort, and are converted into a coarse soft powder; but the fragments of hard stones are very angular and sharp-edged, and produce, by irritating the bladder, pain, difficulty in their passage through the urethra, and frequently their lodgement there. The strength of the in- strument, notwithstanding its small size, in comparison with others, is when properly used, so great that there is no fear of its breaking. To this may be added, that it is by far the least costly instrument. The pcrcuteur, therefore, possesses all the advantages of the other instru- ments, without any of their disadvantages, and it may be with certainty presumed that it will supersede them all. 2040. Before proceeding to the operation, the most perfect information must be obtained, by examination of the position, form, size, and consis- tence of the stone and of the state of the urinary organs. For this purpose a common catheter may be made use of as already directed (a). If there be no circumstances contraindicating lithotrity, if no further preparation of the patient be requisite, or it have been already made, the rectum must be emptied with a clyster some hours previous to the operation. Previous to the introduction of the straight perforator, Civiale and others have for the space of a fortnight, in addition to very strict diet and luke-warm bathing enlarged t e canal of the urethra, by the daily use of elastic bougies, to such extent as'to render he introduction of the instrument easy. The patient is thus at the same time accus- tomed to the irritation of a foreign body, on which account Civiale also uses bougies 3ven when the passage of the urethra is sufficiently wide. ° ’ 2041. The patient should lie upon a common bed, or upon a table covered with a matrass, both of which should be sufficiently high that e operator have not to stop. It should also be narrow, and the'matrass I. I he buttocks are to be raised on pillows, the back flat, the ohoulders and head a little raised. The patient should either lie len<nh- •vays and the operator standing on his right side, or obliquely, with*his ump on the edge of the bed, in which position his feet are eitlier to rest ■n a stool, or to be supported by assistants, and the operator stands be- ween his thighs. r2LbfdS Speuially for,thi® PurPOse, as recommended by IIeurteloup, Bancal and ■ anchou, are thus rendered superfluous, although they are advantageous lw tu’ • he patient easily and quickly in the fitting pJtureTw^^^^ acihty and security. Rigal’s chest-like contrivance, which contains all the mw T instruments, may also be placed on a table to give the7aS a diSp\ ™ T™ jarar-for 6rm,y •w**** *■«•£■« •.•nstcs.'sso; ^fter votldance of ‘he urine, a quantity of lukewarm water ilver catheter ^il^6 C.-nlty °f th®, bladder> is to be hijected through a ]ari... . ter> tdl a visible or sensible enlargement of the region of the a ler ,s produced, or the patient has an urging to make wSer The lthetor l p • L 1 • tone once more examined; after which the [If t, h«VlnS bCen Wlthdrawn» the lithotriptor is introduced. (d) cJi"? CG °f th<i UTethra bc vcry narrow, it must be enlarged downwards with ,r- »ro glwnVSCHLEPS0' eitftm,nBtion> Bnd of similar construction to that of IIkurteioup’s pcrcu- VOL. II. 2 o562 STONE IN THE BLADDER; Civiale’s bistoury, or with a narrow button-ended bistoury, to the extent of a Hi or two. 2043. In using the three-limbed perforating forceps of Civiale ardj Leroy, the instrument, closed and properly oiled, must be held with tl t fingers of the right hand, and the penis with those of the left, so direct*|r that it occupies a middle position betweeen erection and relaxation; coi < sequently almost at a right angle with the body, but forming towards tl'njj belly a somewhat obtuse angle. The same direction being given to tl »] instrument, it is introduced into the urethra, and with gentle tw irling ai g pushing alternately, carried on till it come to the under part of the pub. arch, without changing its direction, or that of the penis. I he instrr i ment and the penis are now gradually sunk down, at first parallel i ™ the horizon, and then brought so far below it as can be done without an, great difficulty, and then its point gently pushed forwards. If this car. not be done, the instrument must be again raised and sunk till the poir j get under the pubic arch ; the instrument is then carried in the sam direction through the prostatic part into the bladder, which is indicate I * by a peculiar feel, by the free movement of the instrument, by the escapmj of a few drops of urine, and by trrgency to make water, if there b <■ still some resistance before the instrument enter the bladder and it cannc t be sunk lower, the part of the instrument projecting from the urethri| must be gently raised, and the neck of the bladder thereby be some whs wl 2044. The stone is in general found without much difficulty, if nc | very small, and if the patient be quiet; and when found, the instnimen i must be drawn a little back, without causing the least shock, and opene - more or less, according to the size of the stone; and then, first the oute j canula, and afterwards the borer, are to be attached. At the sam- i moment that the instrument is pushed a little forwards, the opened1 hmbi.l of the forceps surround and grasp the stone, then the three-limberti canula is attached to it and fastened by the screw. By means of the scab! fixed on the three-limbed tube, and by pushing the borer towards th.J stone, it is ascertained that the latter is actually fixed, and its size is madqj out. The frequent difficulty of grasping the stone may be rendereri more easy by changing the patient’s position, or by pressure on the region* of the bladder. Tf i f 2045. If the stone be very small, it may be at once pulled out. »J be very brittle, it often breaks by the closing of the forceps. But wn H this does not happen, the instrument should be laid into the han the borer moved against the stone by means of the bow, on which a flu ;1 clear murmur is perceived. If the stone be in this way broken to pieces all the pieces rarely fall out of its limbs, and the measure on the ag«“f retracted canula shows whether the piece grasped will pass throug > urethra, or whether it must be still more broken. In the latter case, the canula has been fixed, with the screw, the borer must be ag»1 : employed. The instrument is then to be slowly withdrawn by m°un» getftly7from above downwards, and from right to left, observing the- Lection as on it, introduction. If in doing tin. there be I ...J obstacle, which is usually the case at the fossa nacicularts lie bor ^ be again applied to the stone, to render it still smaller The P1®*? h bladder generally escape with the injected water or with the unne ^ the enlarged urethra. If, however, the stone be firm, and the bo5G3 CRUSHING, OR LITIIOTRITY. 2 o 2 0 pierce without breaking it, the borer must, with certain intervals, operate v only so long on the stone, till there is but a line from the tip of the forceps, a Attempts must then be made either to give the stone another position, and operate with the borer on its other side, or if the patient be fatigued, the is operation must be stopped. 2046. Jacobson’s instrument is introduced just as a common catheter. , Having reached the bladder, gentle movements are to be made with its :j oeak to find the stone ; the instrument can also be twisted to the half of o fs long axis, so that its point may be directed against the back of the bladder, the handle of the instrument raised, pushed gently forwards and r backwards, to one or other side, so as to sound every part of the bladder, r HVhen the stone is found, the curved part of the instrument is to be laid '> >n its side upon it, the movable branch pushed forwards, so that the loop i, s formed within the bladder, and then by lateral movements of the instru- , nent, or by correspondingly raising and sinking one part of the pelvis, cp ittempts are made to bring the stone into the loop. When the stone is »v relieved to be caught in its middle, the movable branch is drawn some- f vhat back, so as to diminish the size of the loop. In order to break the tone now grasped, the screw is to be turned from left to right, as far as j§ ts length allows. If the stone be broken, the loop is to be again opened, J ;nd it is again attempted in the same way as at first, to grasp the single -f ragments, and to crush them, which must be repeated as often as any >: ragments are to be found for crushing, and the patient does not express 0 ny considerable pain. When the instrument is withdrawn, its movable d 'ranch must be pushed sufficiently forward till it be completely closed, 1 nd if this be prevented by any fragment, the loop is to be repeatedly pened, and the instrument made to move in different directions, for the 2 urpose of getting rid of the fragments from the loop ; and then when the a istrument is completely closed, it may be withdrawn like a catheter, i he instrument is used in the same way for repeatedly crushing the stone \'M ragments. 2047. Heurteloup’s percuteur is introduced into the bladder like catheter, and the stone searched for with it. Thp in<Ur>,monf tc ay down, the hammering may be given up, and the564 STONE IN THE BLADDER; further crushing effected by the hand or by the machinery. In this wa • is the operation to be continued till the male instrument has entered con* pletely, and the instrument is perfectly closed, by which the actual crusts a intr, or the escape of the stone is shown. In the latter, as in the formal case, the stone, or its pieces, must be again caught, and they must 1 crushed as already described, and the process repeated till the stone { completely broken to pieces, unless great urging to pass the urine, diseaseJ • contraction of the bladder, and discharge of the urine, violent pain, tl | patient’s distress and the like, prevent the completion of the operatic; i| After the fragments still clinging to the instrument have been got rid o I by pushing forwards, and pulling back its male branch, and by other gent : motions, and the instrument completely closed, it must be withdrawn hu a gentle rotatory motion. If there be yet any obstruction from a litt. piece of stone between the branches of the instrument, it must be agai * pushed into the bladder, and attempts, as already mentioned, made togu 4 rid of it, so that the instrument may be withdrawn completely closed. 2048. The duration of a lithotriptic sitting, depends on the sensibilil 1 of the patient and the symptoms it produces. In general, it occupies fh or six minutes, but persons who are not very sensitive, can, withoi inconvenience, bear it much longer. 1 he symptom usually arising aftri the introduction of the instrument, is, violent urging to make wate which, however, often ceases, when the instrument is managed gently, t. . a few drops of urine have escaped. If a large quantity of urine 1 > voided, and in consequence of other circumstances, the operation be sti-. continued, it must be proceeded with only with the greatest caution aral tenderness, on account of the great danger of injuring the walls of tl'j bladder. . . 2049. After the operation, the treatment must be directed to tr i prevention and removal of the irritative and inflammatory symptoms, an the passage of the fragments of stone through the urethra. The patier must be kept quiet in bed, or the generative organs supported m a sus pendor, and he should take only thin broth and mild mucilaginous dnnH till no trace of irritation remain. But when this has completely eeasec ; he may gradually return to more and solid food, sit up, and go about tc I any length of time, but always having the generative organs supporter I If febrile symptoms, inflammatory irritation and swelling of the nnicou t membrane of the bladder and urethra, of the prostate and generatwj organs, and of the inguinal glands occur, antiphlogistic treatment, suitin>| the degree and character of these symptoms, and the constitution ot I patient, by general or local blood-letting, lukewarm baths, was les anij internal treatment must be resorted to. If with these symptoms, general coldness of the body, and weak, often very small pulse shown prostrati of the powers, then dry rubbing, aromatic applications, the internal use 1 aromatic infusions, and even of volatile irritants, with due caution, nn -1 be employed. Inflammatory affections of other organs, which, altno g*| depending on the constitution of the patient, may be excited by the ope I tion, require the closest attention and corresponding treatment. , 1 2050. The escape of sand and small portions of stone produced y a crushing, generally follows the first voidance of the urine, and is repea each time it is afterwards passed ; accompanied with more°r sensation in the urethra, but without further irritation. Small fra even up to four lines, if they be round, do not in general cause any lmr565 CRUSHING, OR LITHOTKITY. cular symptoms; but if larger, hard and angular, they irritate and wound the mucous membrane of the urethra, excite inflammation, get fixed most commonly in the fossa navicularis, and producing difficulty in passing or entire retention of urine, excite the most violent and painful symptoms. This fixing of the fragments of stone in the urethra is very frequent, according to Leroy in four cases to one, and hence has arisen the great number of instruments proposed for their removal. Often, however, even small pieces cannot be forced out, because either the bladder is paralysed or its neck is spasmodically contracted. 2051. To prevent this accident, various plans have been attempted to set rid of the fragments of stone from the bladder. Heurtelouf with his lithocenose, a straight or curved steel canula, with two side openings and a hemispherical terminal piece introduced into the bladder, injects water, and allows it to flow out again. The small pieces escape with the wafer, the larger get entangled in the openings, and must then be broken up, either by the introduction of a solid tube, or with a toothed knob, which can be rotated (Leroy.) This operation may be often repeated without removing the tube till its blind end is loaded with the fragments of the stone. Heurteloup also uses spoon-shaped forceps in form of his percuteur, and Leroy the small instrument of Jacobson, introduced through a canula. Schleiss (a) has for this purpose constructed an evac- uating catheter, after the fashion of Heurteloup’s jiercuteur, by which he can at the same time inject; and some have also employed Cooper’s curved forceps. All the instruments, however, with which fragments are caught hold of and drawn through the urethra are attended with danger of wounding, and injuriously irritating the urethra, in consequence of the projection of the angles of the fragments. 2052. Fragments of stone fixed in the urethra must be either thrust back into the bladder, or drawn out through the urethra, or removed by a cut into the urethra. The suitability of one or other of these modes of proceeding must depend on the seat of the lodgment of the fragment: if the piece of stone be fixed in the neck of the bladder, or if it have not passed the prostatic part, it is most easy and proper to push it back into the bladder, which may be done with a thick elastic or metal catheter, or by forcible injection into the bladder, so that, when the piece has been there pushed, it may be further crushed. When the fragment has pene- trated into the membranous part, it often cannot be pushed back into the bladder, as the enlargement of the prostate in the urethra which frequently accompanies stone, opposes its return ; it is then more advisable and necessary to pull it out; and the same practice must be adopted in refer- ence to fragments in the fore part of the urethra. 2053. A variety of instruments have been employed for withdrawing fragments of stones fixed in the urethra; some of these were known in old !nies, others have been proposed since the introduction of lithotrity, in con- sequence of the more frequent occurrence of this accident. The old instru- rastruments are, Hunter’s forceps, modified with a movable branch; '■oo-ptnUKTiS meta^*c ^00P> which is passed through a canula, and drawn o er by means of a screw, so as to crush the stone when caught ; o y («) Above cited, pi. viii. f. 15, 17.STONE IN TIIE BLADDER; 566 Colombat’s figure-of-eight loop; Jacobson’s miniature instrument u Cooper’s curved forceps; Amussat and Sagalas’s small percuteunia Civiale’s hook ; Leroy’s three-limbed forceps, with or without a borer i Amussat’s four-limbed forceps; Leroy’s jointed curette, with Dubo < wisicy’s modification, which has a borer added; Leroy’s urethral forcept o with an articulated curette, and a percuteur with a curette; and Amussat’ . s and Sanson’s catheter furnished with a very large side opening. 2054. From the number of these instruments may readily be comprt ?! hended the difficulty accompanying the withdrawal of the fragments ( c stone from the urethra. Their use always requires the greatest circum spection and care. The straight or curved cannular forceps of Hunter Leroy, and others, are in general the most fitting, as are also Cooper'. forceps, when the fragments are deeper seated in the membranous part c the urethra. Leroy’s jointed curette, indeed commonly grasps the stone> but only moves, without drawing it out, if it be not also fixed or crushe by the borer. According to Pigne", Sanson has in several instance where he had in vain used the most suitable instruments, effected the with drawal of stone by means of an elastic catheter, with one or two larg side openings, with the greatest ease and without pain. The position of thr; fragment of the stone is first determined with a metallic catheter, which i then withdrawn, and an elastic catheter with its metal stem passed down t the fragment, shows its place a second time, by rubbing against it; th metal stem must then be drawn back about two inches, and by twisting th: catheter, its opening must be endeavoured to be applied to the stone which almost always at once gets into it, and is withdrawn with th: catheter. If the fragment be quite close to the orifice of the urethra, i may, after slightly enlarging the orifice with a little cut downwards, (par 2042,) be pulled out with a pair of common forceps. 2055. If a fragment of stone stick so fast in the urethra, that it car neither be thrust back into the bladder, nor pulled out, and if it be situatec at an accessible part of the urethra, the coverings must be cut through: and the fragment removed through the wound. An elastic catheter musi; then be introduced into the bladder, and the wound perfectly united. 2056. When after the escape of all the fragments of stone, no further symptoms appear, a close and careful examination of the bladder must made, according to the rules already laid down, to be perfectly satisfied t there is no remnant of the stone,which may cause its reproduction. Prudence also requires that the examination should be repeated from time to time, e- fore it can be ascertained that the patient is quite freed from the stone. 2057. Crushing the stone is effected in women in the same way, anc according to the same rules as in men. The shortness, greater width, anc extensibility of the female urethra render the introduction and manage-, ment of the instrument, as well as the withdrawal of large fragments a stone, easier. It must, however, be remembered that on account oft very condition of the urethra, it is more difficult to retain the propet quantity of the injected fluid, and that the stone mostly lies on the sides | the bladder, on which account it may be more easily seized with curv than with straight forceps. The finger, however, introduced into vagina can alter the position of the stone, and bring it to the instrumen Besides the works already quoted, the following may be referred to:— I Civiale, Nouvelles Considerationssur la Retention d’Urine, suiviesd’un Traite saw ^ Calculs urinaires, sur la manure d’en conuaitre la nature dans l’inte'rieur de la v .567 CRUSHING, OR LITHOTRITY. li la possibility d’en obtenir la destruction sans avoir recours a la Taille. Paris, 1823. ■f gv0\—Premiere Reclamation, 13 Fevrier, 1823.—Lettre an Chevalier Kern. Paris, 1827. 8vo.—Lettres sur la Lithotrite. Paris, 1828, 1831, 1833, 1837.—In Revue Me- I jjcaie, 1826. vol. iv. p. 332.—1828. vol. i. p. 492.—1828. vol. iii. p. 97.—Archives j generales de Medecine, vol. xii. p. 156.—Lancette, vol. iii. p. 369. 1820.—Gazette 1 Medicale, vol. ii. p. 141. 1830.—Lettre sur la Lithotrite Urethrale. 1831.—Mem. de ^ 1’Academie de Me'decine, vol. iv. p. 243. 1835. Leroy d’Etioi.le, Seance de 1’Academic de Medecine, du 13 Juin, 1822.—Archives P generales de Me'decine, vol. i. p. 616. 1823; vol. iii. p. 396 ; vol. xii. p. 619.—Gazette g, de Sante. July, 1822.—Journal Coinpl. des Sc. Med., vol. xiii. p. 214.—Lettre a Scarpa, r ibid. vol. xxiv.—Journal general de Medecine, vol. xcii. p. 287 ; vol. xciii. p. 282. 1825. b Lancette, vol. iv. p. 271. 1831.—Gazette Medicale, vol. iii. p. 365. 1831; Reponse aux uh Lettres de Civiale. 1831.—Memoires de 1’Academic de Medecine, vol. v. p. 221. 1836. Amussat, Note sur la possibility de sonder l’Uretre de l’homme avec une sonde tout : a fait droite, &c. Paris, 1822.—Seance del’Academic, 13Janv., 1832.—Archives gene- b rales de Me'decine, vol. iv. p. 31, p. 547. 1823; vol. xii. p. 146. 1826; vol. xvi. p. 110. . 1827.—Journal Analytique, p. 385. 1829.—Lancette, vol. ii. p. 157. 1829.—Gazette »>' Medicale, vol. ii. p. 71. 1830.—Table synoptique de la Lithotriptie. Paris, 1832. Heurteloup ; in Archives gene'rales de Medecine, vol. v. p. 150. 1824—Reponse a A. Civiale, ibid.; vol. x. p. 480. 1826.—Lettre a l’Acad. des Sciences. Paris, 1827.— <; Revue Medicale, vol. iii. p. 342. 1828.—Cases of Lithotrity, or Examples of the Stone i i cured without incision, &c. London, 1830. 8vo.—Lettre sur l’avantage de prefe'rer la m Percussion et la Pression. Paris, 1833. KX ire. jig i JUi ap HA it! •ea< 7X tap iik 'A.: did KXi IUT t0i: 7.1 vu '1UI V I O;: I Ue, nji Cooper, Astley; in Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. xi. p. 358. 1820. Lukens ; in Philadelphia Journal, vol. i. p. 373. Brousseaud, Archives generales de Medecine, vol. x. p. 566. 1826. Murat, Roux, Gimelle, Rapport a 1’Academie. 1825. Delattre, Quelques Mots sur le Broiement de la Pierre. Paris, 1825. Bellinaye, On the Removal of the Stone without cutting instruments. London, 1825. Harveng, Heidelberger klinische Annalen, vol. i. p. 424. Meyrieux ; en Archives generales de Medecine, vol. x. p. 628. 1826. Kern, Bemerkuugen liber die Civiale und LEnoy’sche Metliode. Wien, 1826. Desgenettes, Lettre a Scarpa; in Journal Complementaire, vol. !xxiv. p. 36. 1826. Tavernier; in Journal de Progres, vol. ii. p. 174. 1827. Scheinlein; in Salzb. Med.-Chir. Zeitung., June, 1827. Seiffert, Ueber die franzosische Metkode Blasensteine zu entfernen u s w Greifswalde, 1826. Magendie, Rapport h l’lnstitut, 1825 ; in Revue Medicale, vol. ii. p. 454. Lemaitre, Florian, DuTraitement de la Pierre; in Clinique, vol. ii. p. 282. 1828. Fournier, (de Lempdes,) Lithotritie perfectionnee. Paris, 1829. Rigal; in Clinique Universelle, vol. i. p. 231.—Archives generales de Me'decine vokxxi. p. 459. 1829.—Lancette, vol. ii.p. 176. 1829.—Brochure sur la Lithotritie. I829! Pamars, Lithotriteur courbe; Clinique, vol. i. p. 231. 1829. Bancal, Manuel pratique de la Lithotritie. Paris, 1829. Dumeril, Rapport a l’lnstitut; in Revue Medicale, vol. iv. p. 482. 1829. Drouineau, Consideration sur la Lithotritie; These. Paris, 1829. Blandin, Journal Hebdomadaire, vol. iii. p. 193. 1829. vol. vi. p. 301. 1830. Waenker, Ueber den praktischen Werth der Lithotritie. Freiburg, 1829. Jacobson ; in Hamburg. Magaziu der ausl. Ileilk. 1830. tri^VAZ>-,L?th0triteur courbei ln Archives gene'rales, vol. xxii. p. 256. lSSO.-Litho- ur droit, in same, p. 413.—Gazette Medicale, vol. ii. p. 207. 1831. LANcnou; in Archives gene'rales, vol. xxiii. p. 300. 1830. aiAUDifeRE, These sur la Lithotritie. Paris, 1830. Dollez, These sur la Lithotritie. Paris, 1830. Demetrius, These sur la Lithotritie. Paris, 1831. Sec alas, Observations de Lithotritie. Paris, 1831. envenuti, Essai sur la Lithotritie. Paris, 1833. landin, De la Taille et la Lithotritie. Paris, 1834.568 CUTTING FOR THE STONE, OR LITHOTOMY; Begin, Dictionnaire de Me'decine et de Chirurg. prat., vol. xi. p. 113. 1834. Caffe, Journal de Connaissances Medico-Chirurgieales. Sept., 1835. von Wattmann, Ueber die Steinzerbrechungund ihr Verhaltniss zum Steinscbnii Wien, 1835. Doubovitzkt, Reproduction fidcles des Discussions qui ont eu lieu sur la Lithotrip et la Taille a, l’Acad. de Medec. Paris, 1835. Hecker, Die Indicationen der Steinzertriimmerungsmethode. Freiburg, 1836. CharriMe, Catalogue des Instrumens destines a 1’Operation de la Lithotritie. Pat 1838. ■ <*> Graf; in Oestereicli. Medic. Wochenschrift, 1841. OF CUTTING FOR THE STONE, OR LITHOTOMY. (Lithotomia, Cystotomia, Lat.; Steinschnitte oder Blasenschnitte, Germ.; Taille, F Schaeffer, Dissert, de variis Lithotomise generibus. Argent, 1724. Le Dran, F. H., Parallele des differentes manieres de tirer la Pierre hors de Vessie. Paris, 1730. Supplement au Parallele. Paris, 1757. Le Cat, C. L., Recueil de Pieces sur l’Operation de la Taille, Part I. Rouen, 174 Part II. 1752; Part III. 1753. Pallucci, N. I., Lithotomie nouvellement perfectionnee; avec quelques Essais sur . Pierre et les moyens d’en empecher la formation. Paris, 1757. 12mo. Dubut, (Pries. Ferrand,) De variis Lithotomia; methodis. Paris, 1771. Morand, Salvat., Opuscules de Chirurgie, part ii. , Eloge de M. Cheselden ; in Mem. de PAcad. Roy. de Chirurgie, vol. iii. Louis, Rapport des Experiences faites par l’Academie Royale de Chirurgie si i differentes methodes de tailler; in Me'm. de 1’Acad, de Chir., vol. iii. p. 623. Sammlung auserlesener, zur Geschichte und Ausiibung des BlasensteinsehnitU s gehoriger Abhandlungen; mit Kupfern. Leipsig. 1784. Hartenkell, Tractatus de Vesica; Urinarise Calculo. Bamb. et Wirceb., 1783. Earle, Sir James, Practical Observations on the Operation for the Stone. Secom Edition. London, 1796. Deschamfs, Traite historique et dogmatique de l’Operation de la Taille. Paris an iv. 4 vols.; avec un supple'ment, dans lequel l’histoire de la Taille est continuer, j depuis la fin du siecle dernier jusqu’a ce jour; par L. J. Begin. Paris, 1826. Schuler, Antiquitates Lithotomia;. Hal., 1797. Thomson, Observations on Lithotomy. Edinburgh, 1808. Allan, Robert, Treatise on the Lithotomy. Edinburgh, 1808. fol. Dupuytren, G., Lithotomie. Paris, 1812. Mechlin, A., Dissert. Apergu historique et pratique sur l’Operation de la Tailk chez l’Homme. Strasbourg, 1822. 4to. von Kern, V., die Steinbeschwerden der Harnblase, ihre verwandten Uebel und der Steinschnitt bei beiden Geschlechtern. Wien, 1828. 4to. Dupuytren, Me'moire sur l’Operation de la Taille, acheve par Sanson et Begin’. Paris, 1826. Bassow, B., Diss. de Lithiasi vusiere urinaria; in genere et in specie de retrachone Calculi per sectionem perincci; cum tab. ix. Mosquie, 1841. _ J 2058. The operation of cutting for the stone consists in the artificial* opening of the bladder or of its neck, at some one part, and to suck extent as will allow the removal of the stone. This operation should always be undertaken as soon as possible, because otherwise the stone enlarges, and renders the operation proportionally more difficult an dangerous. It is, however, contraindicated in severe continued pain in the kidneys, which depends either on stone, suppuration, or other destruc-i tion of those organs; in ulceration of the bladder, which may be dis- tinguished from its simple blennorrliagic affections; in considerabc thickening or carcinomatous degeneration of its walls; also when t e569 TREATMENT PREVIOUS TO OPERATION. | powers are very low sunk, and there lias been previous wasting fever ; in | o-reat enlargement of the stone ; and, finally, in its being completely e, encysted. The operation must be deferred if there be any accidental or i passing disease, if great inflammation of the bladder and its neck, if T much sympathetic irritation of the digestive organs, continued uneasi- , ness, vomiting, and the like, as also if there be stricture of the urethra, i until the passage be restored. The circumstances which contraindicate cutting for the stone require close and careful consideration, as experience frequently shows that, even under the most un- favourable circumstances the operation is successful, and that with the removal of the stone, the symptoms depending on its presence, as for example, the chronic inflamma- tory affection of the bladder, cease. If it be well ascertained that the stone is p encysted, it being perfectly so, must decidedly contraindicate the operation, as in most ■ cases it is impossible to set such stone free, or the case may terminate fatally. An enormously large stone can only be considered as contraindicating one special mode of operation. Cases may occur, though very seldom, in which, though the presence of a stone in the bladder is proved by sounding, few or no symptoms occur; its enlargement , , is very gradual, and the operation does not seem to be necessary. It is always, how- f, ever, to be feared, that in deferring the operation till the appearance of symptoms ; which require it, such changes may accrue as will render its result doubtful. This especially applies to young persons ; as, on the contrary, in old persons, the operation : must be considered to be contraindicated (1). [(1) “ I he age of the patient,” says Astlev Cooper, “does not much influence the result of the operation, with the exception I shall mention. Old age is not to be a bar to it if, so far as the stone will permit, the patient he active and have no other com- plaints. Mr. Cline, senior, operated successfully upon a patient at eighty-two; Mr. Attenburrow, of Nottingham (2), at a still more advanced age. I operated on a gentle- man aged seventy-six, and he died about ten years after. About sixty years of age is fthe period at which stone is most frequent in the adult, and then the operation is very ^•successful. In the middle period of life, fever is more violent from the operation, and »fthe patient is often too much loaded with fat to be submitted to it. Fat persons do not ® fondly fiear operations well; they have little vital power; they should be reduced “b by diet and medicine ; and they must be accustomed to irritation of the bladder, by Ifne frequent introduction of the sound; but still they have more fever and disposition r i:o peritonaea} inflammation than at a later period of life. The age at which there is ! f?ast dauger is from three to twenty, for death is then a very rare occurrence. Under joi neage two years, children often become convulsed, and die from the operation, on 11 recount of their excessive irritability.” (pp. 244, 45.) Ij. I*1® son hiforms me that this patient was eighty-five years old; and that his ather had also operated on a man of eighty-seven, who lived to the age of ninety-five, the earliest age at which I have known the operation for stone performed with suc- • -jess was twelve months, in two instances successfully by Keate, at St George s Hospital ff0HN Hunter operated on a child of eighteen months, but the result is not stated I £ -iave recently cut a child of twenty months, but he died on the fourteenth day of peri- ' K!?1 iniammatlT’ accompanied with small abscesses in the immediate neighbour- ’ 7U C7IAJ7(a) haS’ however- collated many instances of infants A ll w °ne’ °ne °f wh,ch was cut at ten weeks, but with what result is not stated. ' nan^r/fi! PUrS°nS n?,t VeJ7 fav.°urable subjects for stone-operations, yet with I ime S Lhey ma^ d° W- ' ,My fnend Green cut a man about fifty, who a short t f £°re 7 operation weighed eighteen stone, but had been reduced, and the girth rir „v T;U wos ueaHy two yards He did well of the operation, but stone 3 Irane of the MadLn-JF s!]' ’ ^ inflammation of the mucous niem- l 2059. If the stone-patient’s health be otherwise good and his mode of * iving regular, it will be sufficient preparation for the operation to dimi- 1J mi, a tew days previously, the ordinary quantity of his diet, to bathe m sevend times in lukewarm water, and for the two immediately pre- _ • days to restrict his diet further, and to give clysters. In full- 1 11 persons, one or two bleedings should be resorted to ; in liamior- («) Traitc, above cited, p. 506.570 CUTTING FOR THE STONE IN MEN; rhoidal affections, and specially with loading of the liver, leeches must 1 applied to the anus. In stout persons, with weak constitution, the coij o dilion of the juices and the state of the bowels must be attended to, i ■ this kind of constitution may be most prejudicial to the result of tl operation. Under these circumstances bathing must be used with tl ' =! greatest caution, and tonics are often called for. The use of purgative commonly employed in the preparatory treatment to cutting the stom t requires care ; if necessary, at least a few days must intervene betwee : their use and the operation. If the patient have worms, they must eitlu j be first got rid of. and then the operation be performed ; or he may be lef to his ordinary quantity of diet, attention being paid to its quality, am on the day before the operation have broth three or four times, accordinj t* to his appetite, and on the morning itself, bread soaked in beef tea or ric t porridge. Old persons are to be treated in the same way. In countr i people, who are accustomed to coarse food, a quick change of food, ani S to a lighter kind, may be unfavourable to the result of the operation e In very sensitive subjects, small doses of opium, extract, hyoscyami, o j aq. lauro-cer., may be administered. A.—Or Cutting for the Stone in Men. 2060. The history of cutting for the stone presents six different model >i in which it is performed on the male, to wit:— First, Cutting with the little apparatus. Second, „ ,, great ,, Third, ,, ,, high operation. Fourth, ,, by the lateral ,, Fifth, ,, into the body of the bladder from theperinceum. Sixth, ,, through the rectum. 2061. Cutting for the Sto?ie with the Little Apparatus, (Apparatus parvus, Hypocystomia, Lat.; der Steinschnittmit der kleinen Gerathschafl, Germ. ; la Taille par le petit Appareil, Fr.,) called also Celsus’s method, because he first described it, consists in making a cut upon the stone l through the perinceum and neck of the bladder, and drawing it out with a stone-spoon. This plan remained the only one, and unchanged up to the < sixteenth century, when it yielded to the great apparatus, and was almost ti entirely confined to childhood. Heister and Morand alone have, in more ; modern times, taken it under their protection. 2062. A strong man sitting on a chair takes the patient on his lap, and holds the thighs bent at the knee properly apart. If he be not in this way sufficiently fixed, the feet must be held by other assistants on each side. The operator introduces two fingers of his left hand into the anus, and endeavours, whilst with his right hand above the pubic sym- \ physis he presses the belly downwards, to push the stone into the neck of the bladder ; then, upon the projection formed by the stone in the pert- • nceum, on the left side of the raphe, he makes a semilunar cut, the horns of which are directed towards the left hip-socket, through the perinceum into the bladder, divides its neck by a second transverse cut, and pulls out the stone with his finger or with a stone-spoon. Such is the usual interpretation of the text of Celsus :—“ Ut super vesica: c?rv*c®j [ fit, juxta anum incidi cutis plaqa lunula usque ad cervicem vesica: debet, coroibus ad i coxas spectantibus paululum: deinde ea parte, qua strictior ima plaga est, etiamnuins® cute, altera trausversa plaga facienda est, qua cervix aperiatur” (a). As a deviation tro (a) De Mcdicina, lib. vii. cap. xxvi.571 THE LITTLE AND GREAT APPARATUS. this text, must be considered the direction, to press the stone upon, and not into, the (i neck of the bladder, by which process the cut seems to be made into the body rather than t into the neck of the bladder, which Heister distinctly directs; according to whom, the Nt parts which must be cut through are, the skin, the fat, and between the left m. erector : penis and the bulb, the hinder and under part of the bladder up to its neck. According !• to Bromheld (a), the semicircular cut should be carried in such way above the anus, •i that it may pass through the raphe and its horns lie opposite to the ischial tuberosities. This statement, which is objected to by Closius (6), was assumed by Chaussier (c) /. and by Bkclard (d), to be the true interpretation of the text of Celsus, and both these * Surgeons have proposed a peculiar practice by the addition of a staff, which Dupuy- [ tren adopted successfully in a living person in the year 1824. This proceeding, in which the neck of the bladder is cut into on both sides, in a corresponding direction to i; the external cut, will be more fully entered into in considering the lateral operation (e). The objections to this interpretation may be found in Jourdan (/), Turck (o) : and in Begin (A). Schonmann (i) defines the external cut, as being semilunar with a its convexity towards the hip-socket, its upper horn towards the left side of the raphe, ri and the lower towards the left ischial tuberosity. 2063. This mode of treatment, which has only historical value, is de- >r- servedly objected to, as it is very difficult, and sometimes impossible to press k the stone into the neck of the bladder, which is bruised by so doino-; as $> there is no certainty of what parts are cut through ; and as the operation t is performed without a staff, the urethra may be cut through transversely, h and the ureters, seminal vesicles, and the vas deferens of the left side may 3 be injured (j). It can only be called for in the rare case of a stone deve- b loped in the neck of the bladder, forming a distinct projection in the moerinceum, and when no staff can be introduced. Upon this operation the following works may be consulted: i Celsus, De re medica, lib. vii. cap. xxvi. Ilsemann, J. G., (Pncs. L. Heister,) Dissert, de Lithotomia Celsianse prsestantia et usu. Helmst., 1745. ; Clossius, Analecta quEedam ad historiam Lithotomise Celsiante. Tubing., 1792. s i Turck, De l’lncision pratique's par Celse, dans l’Ope'ration de la Taille chez les Hommes. Strasb., 1818. 2064. Cutting for the Stone with the Great Apparatus, (.Apparatus Wpiagnus, Lat.; der grossen Gerdthschaft, Germ.; le grand Appareil, Fr.,) ■ o named on account of the great number of instruments required for the Operation, was invented by Johannes de Romanis in the beginning of ie sixteenth century, and subsequently made public by Makianus i^anctds DE Barletta, on which account it was long called the Sectio ; uariana. This method consists in first passing a staff into the bladder I In opening the urethra in its spongy part, by a cut through the perinreum, ' M in enlarging the neck of the bladder, by particular instruments, to uch extent that the stone can be pulled out. 2065. The patient having leaned backwards on an oblique surface, was ■■-aced upon a high stool, or on the edge of a table; his hands bound to "r *«*» which were drawn up and separated from each other, and at the >ame time several turns of the bandage passed round his neck and | W Analecta qntcdam P- 218 ■ lelaianm. Tubing., 1782. I iifl M°bi and, Dissert. Propositions sur divers 1 oe Medecine. Paris, 1805. I IV Impositions sur quelques points de Mede- : ne. Cans, 1818. . ■) I,,;?EMANN, *1* G.,(Pries. L.IIeister,) Dissert. -?•“ ™Celsi“n® prajstantia et usu. ' Ur Cvi’ar A ° ir"R0K-.I)e 1,Incision pratiquee ■ ommea* TaiUe U'8 (f) Article I.ithutomie, in Diet, des Sc. Medi- cales, vol. xxviii. p. 384. (<?) Journal Complement, du Diet, des Sc. Med., vol. in. p. 184. (A) Supplement to Desohamps, Traite p. 420. (t) Commentatio (le Lithotomia Celsianu. JenDD. 1841. U) joiin Rei.i., Principles of Surgery, p. 50, pi. v. London, 1815.—Frobiep’s Chlrurg. Kup- fertaf., pi. lxxi.CUTTING FOR TIIE STONE; 572 shoulders, and himself held by assistants. A staff was then introduce into the bladder, with which it was attempted to ascertain the presence • the sto.ie, and at the same time, also, if possible, its size. The handle of tl staff was given to an assistant, who inclined it a little towards the bell and at the same time also raised the scrotum. A cut was then made on tl left or right side of the raphe, upon the staff, beginning below tl scrotum, and terminating an inch above the anus, in males usual about four fingers’ breadth long. If the bistoury did not at first hit upc the groove of the staff, a second cut divided the bulb and a small part the pars membranacea urethra; the gorget, conductor, or dilator, w then entered on the groove of the staff, the staff drawn back, and the nec of the bladder enlarged with the gorget. The stone-forceps were the passed in, and assisted also in enlarging the neck of the bladder, and wit them the stone was grasped and drawn out. 2066. This mode of operating has manifestly great advantage over th little apparatus, but instead of the simple enlargement of the neck of th bladder, as was the object for which it was employed, considerable tearin and bruising was always produced, as experiments on the dead body a least have proved, and pulling out the stone was always accompanied wit great difficulty, and injury of the parts. The serious symptoms whici mostly followed this mode of operation were, extravasation of blood, ab scesses, destroying suppuration, gangrene, fistula, incontinence of urine and the like. It must not, however, be overlooked that the results will the great apparatus were not exactly so unfavourable, as usually con sidered to its prejudice ; this Deschamps proved, and in reference to th« consideration of the several modes of proceeding in the lateral opera tion, is of very great importance (a). no Markschal, by his coup de maitre, in which, for the purpose of separating the urethn from the anus, he raised the staff under the pubic symphysis, inclined the handle toward himself, and thrust his lithotome further into the urethra, endeavoured to give the cn I a greater extent; but by this method the rectum was always liable to be injured. \ acc Berlinghieri’s (6) treatment, which will be noticed hereafter, resembles this practice Upon this mode of operating may be consulted Mariana Sanctx Barolitani, Libellus aureus de Lapide ex vesica per sectionem 9 extrahendo. Venet., 1535. Fienus, T., Tractatus de Sectione Calculi, seu Lithotomia.—Wundarzneikunst Niirnberg, 1675. Franco, P., Traite des Hernies, &c. Lyon, 1561. Pineau, S., Discours touchant l’luvention et l’Extraction du Calcul de la \ essie. Paris, 1596. Hildani, G. Fabric., Lithotomia Vesica;. Basil, 1628. Tolet, F., Traite de la Lithotomie ou l’Extraction de la Pierre hors de la A essiw Paris, 1708. Cinq. Edit. Alguisi, T., Litotomia, overo dal cavar la Pietra. Florenza, 1707. Goei.icke, A. O., De optima Lithotomiam administraudi ratione. Halse, 1713. Colot, De l’Operation de la Taille. Paris, 1727. 2067. Cutting for the Stone by the High Operation (Apparatus alius, Epiegsieotomia, Cystotomia epigastrica, Lat.; tier hohe Apparat, Eauchblasenschnitt, Germ. ; le haul Appareil, Fr.) consists in opening the bladder between the upper edge of the pubic symphysis and the fold of peritonceum, passing over the bladder. This operation was first per- (n) Chelius, llemerkungen ilbcr den Stein- (/>) Della Litotomia nei doe sessi, 4th Mem. sclmittji n lleidelb. kliniscli. Annalen, vol. vl. l’isa, 1825. pt. iv.573 TIIE HIGH OPERATION. 1* formed by Franco («) in the year 1561, and he must be considered as si! the discoverer of the method, although Archigenes had previously pro- J posed it. Rousset (5) closely describes the proceeding, and points out its advantages. It found, however, but little acceptation, on account of 5 the still general opinion of the great danger of wounding the body of the bladder, till it was first again performed in England by Proby (c) ; then again brought into some repute by John Dougeas (cl), Cheselden (e), i Pkye(/), Thornhill, Macgill(</), Heister (A), and Morand (i). The lateral operation, however, soon displaced it; but Frere Come’s (j) fortunate experience raised it again for a short time ; since then, however, t has been restricted to those extreme cases only in which, on account of he great size of the stone, it could not be got through the lower opening >f the pelvis. In more recent times it has been performed especially jy Souberbielle, at Paris, with success; and has been defended by Jarpue (A) and Home (l). Scarpa (m), and still more recently, Dzondi (n). Belmas (o), Amussat, Baudens, and Leroy d’Etiolle (p) iave endeavoured in various ways to improve the operation and the in- struments. 2068. The following is the mode of proceeding usually employed in •utting for the stone with the high apparatus. The patient lies on a bed covered with a matrass ; the pelvis a little raised by a pillow beneath it; he lower limbs half-bent at the knee and hip-joints; the head moderately upported so that the abdominal muscles may be relaxed. After the in- troduction of the arrow sound (sonde a darde, sonde a jlc.che) of Belmas % nto the bladder, and the discovery of the stone, the operator standing on * he patient’s right side, makes a cut of three inches’ length with a convex Bistoury, whilst on both sides of the white line he tightens the skin above T' he edge of the pubic symphysis with the fingers of the left hand, exactly |i!a the direction of the white line, through the skin, cellular tissue, and tyHiscia superJir.ialis. Pie now thrusts, immediately behind the pubic IVjrifchysis, a straight bistoury into the under part of the white line, about ftpi inch deep, and ascertains by the obstruction ceasing, and the fat and j-*3>ose cellular tissue protruding, that the white line is divided, and the bis- pury has penetrated into the space between the pubic bones, the bladder, b nd the convexity of the peritoneum. The point of the left forefinger is | ow introduced into this opening, I he peritonaeum separated from the wall the belly, and the wound enlarged upwards by means of a common I d°) Traite des Hernies, contenant, &c , et autres ®4,cellentes Parties de la Chirurgie, assavoir de la 81 >erre, &c., p. 139. Lyon, 15(51. • ('■) Traite Nouveau dc l’Hvsterotomotokie, on s ilantement Cesarien. Paris, 1581, chap. vii.— f ktkus i.e Mekcier, Thesis, An ad extrahen- i. imcalcolum dissecandaad pubena vesica? Paris, .’jjG m Rai.leri Disputationes Chirurg., vol. iv. } Cj-) Philosophical Transactions, vol. xxii. p. 1700. S Of) Uthotomia Douglasiana, or An Account of A of maki,1g the High Operation. I ^ on,‘~ 19.—Lithotomia Mouglasiana. Lonilon, I <'e) A Treatise on the High Operation for the J, ( . l-ondon, 1723. 8vo. >.Some Observations on the several Modes of 'notomy. London, 1724. in 'Iteet tfoN. A short Essay on the Opera- 0,,° , Lithotomy, as is performed by the Ne-v -'hod above the Puhes; to which is added, A ‘■r relating to the same subject, from Mr. Acoui, to Dr. Douoeas. London, 1727. 4(o. ; De Apparatu Alto. Helmst., 172S. (i) Traiti- de la Taille ou Ilaut Appareil. Paris 1728. 8vo. (.j) Nouvelle Methode d’extraire la Pierre de la vessie urinaire par dessus le pubis, qu’on nomme vulgairement le Haut Appareil, dans l’une et 1’autre sexe sans le secours d'aucun lluide retenu ni force dans la Vessie. Bruxelles, 1779. (It) A History of the High Operation for the Stone by incision above the Pubes. London, (0 On a New Mode of performing the High Operation for the Stone; in his Practical Observa- tions on the Treatment of Strictures in the urethra, vol lii. p. 379. London, 1821. (m) Sul Taglio epigastrioo. Pavia, 1820. (n) Line leichtere und siehere Weise, den Stein aus der Urinblase r.u entfernen ; in von Graefe und von Waltii Hit's Journal, vol. xiv. p. 173. (o) J raite de la Cystotomie suspubienne. Paris, ld27. (p) De la Cyatotomio epipubienne. Paris, 13 7.574 CUTTING FOR THE STONE; button-ended bistoury, or by Belmas’s buttoned bistoury, introduced c the volar surface of the forefinger, which is to be done rather by pressin U the bistoury on, than by a stroke. The operator then grasps the hand itN of the arrow sound with the right hand, and sinks it, so that the other en v rises up immediately behind the pubic symphysis, and lifts up the froi wall of the bladder like a hillock into the wound ; the left finger alreadq-i in the wound at the same time directing the movement of the beak of tb > sound, and pressing back the peritonaeum. The beak of the sound, wit . the portion of bladder covering it, is now fixed with the thumb and fort i finger of the left hand, and the arrow of the sound pushed out hy a assistant. A straight bistoury is then thrust upon the groove of th: 1 arrow, and the front wall of the bladder cut through from above down'ol wards, the forefinger of the left hand quickly introduced through thif fi wound into the bladder, and its volar surface being directed upwards, am, p the finger crooked seizes the upper angle of the wound in the bladder, am: ,* holds the bladder in a position corresponding to the external wound. I , the wound in the bladder do not answer to the size of the stone, it must b- « enlarged with a button-ended bistoury downwards, towards the neck of tb ji bladder. If the fingers of the right hand cannot seize and draw out th ii stone, a pair of common stone-forceps may be introduced into the bladders with which it is easily caught and pulled out, and which may also, i necessary, be assisted by introducing the finger into the rectum. The two most important accidents which may occur in cutting for the stone abort I the pubes, to wit, wounding the peritonaeum, and dropping down of the bladder, at the ‘ moment it is cut into, have led to various modes of proceeding in reference to cutting t through the coverings and the bladder. Franco, with his finger introduced into the rectum, pressed the stone against the back i of the white line, and cut directly upon it. Rousset distended the bladder with a mile £ fluid to such an extent as to raise it above the pubes, and bring it near the wall of the t belly. Douglas, Ghkselden, and Morand, increased the size and resistance ol i the bladder, by injecting only moderately, as a greater distension is very painful,- and often not possible. Frere Come, instead of injection, used the dart sound (a), which he introduced ( through a cut previously made in the membranous part of the urethra into the bladder. Loder (£>) objected to this previous cut iu the perinceum, and passed the arrow sound through the urethra into the bladder; and the same practice was followed by Zang and Home. Zang further advises that the patient should per- I fectly discharge his urine before the operation ; and for the purpose of effecting this more certainly, a small quantity of decoction of mallows may be injected* through the catheter into the bladder, and afterwards allowed to escape. Then, if the patient can bear it, a tolerable quantity of the same decoction may be injected gradually into the bladder, which being thus distended, separates the peritonaeum more from the upper edge of the pubic symphi/sis, and saves it from injury. The penis must be tied till the bladder is exposed, and then the dart sound introduced through the urethra. Scarpa gives the dart sound a large sweep and a deep groove, and dips the bistoury a line and a half from its tip into the bladder, more certainly to pre- ; vent its slipping off the sound. The large curve of Frere Come’s dart sound easily f permits its beak to be thrust against the upper part of the bladder, and by its move- j ment against the pubic s/mpht/sis, the drawing away also of the peritonaeum, for ; which purpose Belmas makes the curve of his instrument shorter and greater, and the further alteration that the heak of the instrument is furnished with a button end, can , be protruded further, so that as soon as it is properly introduced into the bladder, the arrow may he pushed forwards. Dzondi uses, as had been done previously by Rousset and Sermes, a catheter grooved on its concave side, which is very safe, if the < knife be dipped some lines before the point of the catheter into the bladder. I.ebot d’Etjoli.e has recommended, for raising the bladder, an instrument similar to Hecb- I (n) This is n sound of which the tip enn lie projected bv a stilette, and is called by the trench t Sonde a third, and hy the Germans P/ei.sunde. (b) Kohi.eb’s Anleitung rum Verbandc, p-4“- j575 THE HIGH OPERATION. < TELom'$percuteur, with movable branches for that purpose. Many modern Surgeons e< (Baudens, A muss at) object to such instrument for raising the bladder, and pressing :* it forward, when it has fallen together, and is empty, a proceeding which must always be considered venturesome, as Belmas’s arrow sound, or a catheter properly used, is more safe. Dupuytren (a), in a case where a small arrow sound was introduced into t: the bladder, which could not be distended by injection, pressed the stone by assistance if from the rectum, upwards, and opened the bladder immediately upon it. The best direction for the external wound is that of the white line. Home (b) made ■te one vertical cut through the skin, above the pubic symphysis, a second deeper through - v the fascia, and the belly of the m. pyramidalis, and by a third cut made trans- versely, and at a right angle with the first, the insertion of the muscle to the pubic B symphysis, and the loose cellular tissue on the bladder, and then raised it up with the . anger. Le Dr an had previously proposed cutting into the bladder transversely, (p Franck, of Montpellier, also divides two-thirds of the m. rectus transversely. Accord- ’>! ng to Baudens and Amussat, the cut should be made on the side of the white line, aj ;o as to lay bare the inner edge of one or other straight muscle, which done, and the ft nuscle drawn outwards, there is only the thin plate of the transversal fascia to be torn hrough to get at the bladder. Belmas thinks that the cut should be carried down to ft he root of the penis, to prevent infiltration of urine into that organ ; whilst others hold i hat by such practice an earlier infiltration would be produced. *' for cutting into the white line, Frere Come used the trocar bistoury and the len- *; icular bistoury; Leroy a special aponeurotome, and the button-ended bistoury of at Iousset and Belmas ; Scarpa employed a staff. The forefinger of the left hand, which is to be introduced as speedily as possible into ^ be bladder when opened, serves best to steady it, and renders the blunt hook, the fe orgeret suspetiseur of Belmas and Leroy’s instrument, unnecessary. The enlargement r f the wound in the bladder must be made when the size and condition of the stone has s! een decided by the introduction of the finger, in which case, by the yielding of the S PS®8 °f the wound in the bladder, a small cut is sufficient for the removal of a large , one. Dzondi also proposes raising the stone into the wound by means of a button p xed upon the beak of the catheter, and to enlarge the wound if its edges offer much * n,ined with the finger, and the wound cleaned, the end of a piece of half s nravelled linen should be passed through the wound into the bottom of si ie bladder, but Scarpa thinks it better merely to insert it in the space ■'tween the bladder and abdominal muscles, leaving its end hanging out i the lower angle of the wound. The wound is to be covered with lint 0 id compress, and the whole dressing fastened with a linen belly-bandag-e. - .k„4 7* TT 1 v,luu‘ 5^ wvuuu. 11 HS cugw uiier mucil B .ostruction. Home has recommended a particular kind of forceps with a net (c). 2069. When the stone has been drawn out, the bladder carefully ex- tv minnrl nt4 4-1-. iL ~ £1 J i 1 it i.i i /> . » .CUTTING FOR THE STONE; 576 after, to cut into the bladder within the bounds of this adhesion (Vebniebeb); or L operate at two intervals, first to cut through the parts to the bladder, then three or ft J .. A ,. _ i+l-w, 1,1 n /l/l ot* iirlujn fllO Cll ITOll 1 tl O' I I 1 1 II T* tlSKtlf llfiU llfit'ttUUi fl operate at two liuei vuib, mat cut imuugu wc u» u days after to open the bladder, when the surrounding cellular tissue has become ft and impenetrable to the urine (Vidal de Cassis.) Here, also, may be mentioned I • n .1 .1 „ C Kvr rii+imn (Gat t V7a I.' VI (ivui L'D i 1 n rdfoeot.nn ana lmpeueu aoie to uic m me ^ » xu^x. ur, ^ .mucu » « union of the wound of the bladder by suture, (Solingen, Geuler,) in reference b which Pinel Grandechamp instituted experiments on animals (a), from whence \! .1 concludes that the danger of the high operation may he diminished. 2070. For some little time after the operation, the dressings must | changed twice or thrice a day, during which time all the urine escape.<• through the wound in the belly, and passes between the pieces of t dressing After three or four days, the strips of linen may be taken awa- as then0 the swelling of the edges of the wound and of the cellular tiss> between the bladder and walls of the belly is so great that the urine ca m not infiltrate. The water now begins to flow gradually through t urethra, in proportion as the passage through the wound narrows, and s last it closes with simple treatment. Dupuytren (b) considers all precautionary rules to keep the urine entirely aw . from the wound above the pubic symphysis as fruitless, the approximation of the edg < of the wound by the stitch openings through the perinecum and rectum, and the introdi- ft tion of the catheter through either of them, or through the urethra, of no use, a sometimes even dangerous, as they may produce infiltration of urine, and mflammati. a of the peritonaeum, and of the cellular tissue in the cavity of the pelvis. 2071. The untoward circumstances which may arise during and aft ] this operation are,—great difficulty in its performance, on account of tl bladder becoming much contracted ; wounding the peritonaeum; protrui sion of the intestines from the opening, and flow of urine into the cavi* i of the belly ; violent inflammation of the peritonaeum ; infiltration of tl urine into the cellular tissue, abscess, and gangrene. When the contract! fj bladder is very deep, the operation must be performed with the greate •• care; and it must be specially remembered that the front wall of tl Jg bladder must be cut into, not above the pubic symphysis, but belm i it If the peritonaeum be wounded, the opening must be at once dost .1 with a sponge. This is the most serious accident; but not always dw - there occur fatal extravasation of urine into the cavity of the bell (Douglas, Frere Come, Soubekbielle.) Zang (c), in cases of unui i of the peritonaeum, recommends for completely drawing off the unn< the puncture of the bladder through the rectum, and, in women, by tl ;< vagina ; a proceeding which DESciiAMrs(</)has generally practised, am > C1 the more safe performance of the puncture, recommends a hollow cyUntu witli a handle, which is brought through the wound in the bladder, ant bv the trocar, introduced into the rectum, the hind wall of the bladder ^ thrust into the cylinder, and may be there perforated. The inflammation to be feared after the high operation for the stone must be prevented an. got rid of by suitable antiphlogistic treatment, as in the lateral operatioi| Infiltrations of urine and abscess require the use of the knife, an sucj posture as will prevent the collection of urine and of pus. In this respeoj it is most important that the operation should be performed with ■ greatest possible care and dexterity, so that the cellular connexions ot m bladder be not very much torn, nor separated to a great distance. Pallucci practises thrusting a trocar from the bladder outwards, near its ’f j that there ma? be an opening in the perinmum by the side of the anus, into winch canula should be inserted for the discharge of the urine. (a) In Oi.i.iviek, above cited, p. 74. (to t^eons orate* de Clinique Chirnrgicale, te) Abo-cited p.-.4, g. M^ vol. ii. P- 3bl. 1 ‘577 THE HIGH OPERATION. rl 2072. If the advantages and disadvantages of cutting for the stone above the pubic symphysis have to be critically reviewed, this can only be done from the results which Douglas, Cheselden, Frere Come, and Souberbielle, have kept, without distinction, of the operations they performed on a certain number of patients, both men and women, with small and large stones. These results are but little distinguished from those of the lateral operation. Bleeding is not at all to be feared in this operation ; very large stones especially may be removed by :t; and palsy of the bladder is never consequent to it. In our days, aowever, this mode of operation is mostly confined to those cases in which lie lateral operation is not proper, on account of disease of the neck of lie bladder and of the prostate gland ; also in very large stones, which ire ascertained to be so previous to operation, or during the performance if the lateral operation ; and when, on account of peculiar crippling of he lower limbs, the perinceum cannot be well got at. It must, however, le remarked, in reference to the large size of the stone, that if it entirely ill the contracted bladder, if the walls of the bladder be very thick, ind the like, cutting for the stone above the pubic symphysis is very iimcult, and may be even impossible, because the arrow sound cannot be aised up between the stone and the bladder, or the thickened and con- racted bladder cannot be pushed up behind the pubic symphysis; and in uch cases, especially on account of the organic changes in the bladder, ne operationgeneral causes the death of the patient (a). t!16 i°terestinS notice left by Cheselden of the revival, as well as louriAs fn’n°Vhe h'gh °Pfatl0n m his time:—“In the year 1717-18 Dr. James le Darts thVth Ptu Presentcd t0 the Royal Society, demonstrated from the anatomy of erformp'd hv £,blgh-'°PeJr?t.10n for the st°ne might be practised ; which had been once ‘covered • l! f, ° “judiciously, and by him disrecommended, though his patient 0 one imiWn aft.c'r^al'dls strongly recommended, but not practised, by Rosset. Yet ■ruled jtdnnH°k - n,’ hlS br,other Mr- JoHN Douglas, about three years after, per- urrreon of great applause, his two first patients recovering. Soon after, a an afterwardsTpntI?aSStH0Spllal Cut tw0’ wbo both recovered; but the same gentle- naum so thS th« T °’ "’1° ““carried by the cutting or bursting of the peri- ls before reLm gU a aPPeared’ thls way immediately became as much decried as it ho hadprenTre^^n^f ’ UPw whlch.the Surgeons of St. Bartholomew’s Hospital, d wav PtL d l P forrfi this operation, altered their resolution, and went on in the ay and entUnf* Sea?°n’ U belng turn (&) in St- Thomas’s, I resumed the high istof both hofnita’ls ^lth..su®c?f ’ !t ™e aSa!n m vogue. After that every lithoto- my practice thmiA^n^n t it5 bUt the PeT'tona?m being often cut or burst, twice irsLfVnm • • th g some of ,hese recovered, and sometimes the bladder itself was 1 l:JeCtlDgt00much,watcr^hich generally proved fatal in a day or two "other inconvenience attended every operation of this kind, which was that the ted wit),"6 c.ontInually ln the wound retarded the cure; but then it was never fol wm not lnrV-rCe 0f urine- What the access of the several operators was' unioned I lost no mn^tR0 publ!sh ’ but for imy own, exclusive of the two before ow of could l han 0UCIln S?;cn’ which is more than any one else, that I im a fair l w- W ie/e?? m ^ie way> (cutting on the gripe,) even at Paris e 'lid. And thoS t°bisaS°Ve tC-'Sht hunt?red P;Uicnts’ it appearsVat near two in r opinion that it ;=g 0PC‘'at,on came into universal discredit, I must declare it ■self, who would nn?LCh ,U,Upfr ,tban tbf old way> to which they all returned, except ing well assured tW i^ -Ci ?^ the b,gb way’ but f°c the hopes I had of a better ‘ might hereafter be practised with greater success; these fatal ' " *'■ I.*,RinKec‘cRr’chcnm'J' 11 certnin number of months, Alternately • Iarnw =' "= j* -v‘ed to operate on all the stonecascs^Admlupil hut ’L was K'vcn "P in 1814; after which VOL. IX 6 C“e“ *‘lmiUed time every Surgeon operated on his own case.. 2 PCUTTING FOR TIIE STONE; 578 accidents having pretty well shown how much water might be injected, and how larg the wound might safely be made.”—(pp. 327, 28.)] 2073. The Lateral Operation for the Stone (Sectio lateralis, Cystotraeh lotomia, Lat. ; der Seitensteinschnitt, Germ. ; la Taille later ale, Fr.) i at present the most usual method of operating, independent of the variou modes of proceeding by which its several acts are performed. It i generally characterised by a cut made in the pcrinceum, extending fron the side of the raphe towards the ischial tuberosity between the rn. credo penis and accelerator urince, by which the membranous part of th urethra is opened, and the neck of the bladder, the prostate gland, am. part even of the body of the bladder, are cut into. 2074. History names Franco as the inventor of this method, althoug) it was first brought into use by Frere Jacques Beaulieu, at the ent of the seventeenth century. Mery improved it. In Holland Rau, \vh< had learned this operation from Beaulieu himself, practised it with th greatest success ; but he never made anything known of his practice, am therefore opinions were divided about it (1). Heister seems to hav. first rightly determined it; and Cheselden, after fruitless attempts t( make out Rau’s method, which he wrongly thought consisted in opening the body of the bladder, was led to his own particular method. Le Dran Le Cat, Frere Come, Hawkins, Guerin, Payola, and others, hav especially modified the necessary instruments, and more recently Langenbeck, Klein and Dubois have contributed to the simplification of the operation. fen R.au’s experience must indeed have been very large, for Albinus (a), qnotmi from an oration (6) of Rau’s, says that he “ performed his forte-seven men, and that he continued to perform it frequently up to his death. Albino states —“ There was undoubted proof that Rau at first treated stone-patients in by openingthe urethra in the perinceum, with the great apparatus, which he had c rumb ilS nt Paris It is also sure that he not only saw Frere Jacques operate, but tha. heseveral Smes examinedthe bodies of persons who had died after these operations But afterwards he always practised a new method of his own, by which he cut S“l„PS?peS?w“i,ropo»a, neither to cut into the pe.kof tta bladder,^., first done noTinto the urethra, as at that time most were accustomed to do, 1but into* remained entire, and these necessarily narrow passages, a.nd vei^ delicate pa inS neither by the introduction of instruments, nor withdrawing them withgr« violence nor by extracting even the stone, oftentimes large, rough, and pointed, , Ind cruelly, and as much which usually happened, and seemed far to exceed the ordinary methods.” A™ ^eS^ndh^rioto difficulties attendant on the operation and which, he saj s, be ha d .. 0 th, happened to Frere Jacques, who neither understood the lt therefor, uarts, nor had any certainty by which he could guide the knife and torceps ffinJ needs only when we would praise his method, that we should not hesitate of th, it was rather practised by him with great loss of mankind, and to the destru SSlKSlL it wouki have been better he should given Rau the opportunity of discovering the best mode. For he,w1 en cle O con with the structure and situation of those parts which were o found bv whirl sidered nothing was wanting to this method, than that a plan slio t bladder; thi instruments mfght be immediately and certainly^directedAc.that ^ * ied tha he discovered, and most successfully practised. It cannot maee Frere Jacques preceded Rau ; but to Rau now and for ever is due the greatly ^ (a) Index Supellectllis Anatomicro quam Acad. (b) ^delivered in IT 13, on the day ° ,OBrNoEauiASefuJet cmationem auam Cab Surgery"in the University of 1-cyden ? rj.ibuk rnstiumentorum quo (fguraa ad- aware of any other.-!. * * Albino culosis i didit. Ludg. Bat., M DOO.xxvTHE LATERAL OPERATION (RAU’S.) 579 ,{, ,nd glory, that by his own skill, ingenuity, and industry, he made that addition by s • tvhich alone treatment, otherwise uncertain, dangerous, and even hurtful, was rendered & sure, safer, much better, and more excellent than others. He added the catheter, as it is railed, which he had deeply grooved on its curved side ; this he passed by the urinary a; oassage into the bladder, and applied its convexity to that part of the bladder which was * o be cut, so as to enable him to find it externally, to make the cut through the skin ;i ipon it, to direct the knife towards it, to cut the bladder upon it with certainty, and to ii ntroduce the forceps directly, just as was wont to be done by the great apparatus.” Not r+J -ousidering the common catheter sufficiently curved, Rad had “ the curve of his made » . little greater at the termination of its straight part and the beginning of the groove, rad at the end of the curve the beak was made straighter and longer, so that the knife i i aiight be carried backwards upon it, and a sufficiently large wound made in the bladder.” laving introduced the catheter, he so placed it that “ its grooved curve resting near the w leek, was applied to that part of the bladder to be cut, on the left side, and a little below fend behind the neck; which done, the catheter was gently pressed on that part, and the <: thumb moved externally over the soft part of the buttock, to the left of the anus i9 jietween it and the great tuberosity of the haunch-bone. Then gently inclining the 9.f;atheter towards his right thumb, which he pressed from the right and upwards, he i bund externally, and noted the spot opposite the curve of the catheter, at which the a i rst cut was to be. This was made on the left of the anus, about a thumb or two fingers’ itU readth from it towards the ischial tuberosity, not nearer, lest the rectum should be rounded; nor farther from it, lest the knife should need be thrust too obliquely inwards the catheter. * * * The spot found, he first divided merely the skin and b little of the fat, with a straight cut of sufficient length, from above downwards and | intwards, that is towards the ischial tuberosity, so as to get away from the rectum; but t ie did not take much trouble about this wound. He then passed his right thumb or forefinger into the wound, with his nail towards the catheter, which was kept as closely i? 35 possible to that part of the bladder to be cut into, again seeking for that instrument, ft:jnd having found it, he withdrew his thumb and carefully carried in the point of his not, however, too high, and cautiously directed it towards the catheter, which he m iid just before found with his thumb, and then gently cut through whatever he met. * a order that he might not easily wound the rectum, he in general first gently passed his" u mger into it, so that he might ascertain its position and avoid it. When by thus cutting Bpjently he had nearly reached the bladder, he passed the thumb or forefinger into the ound, again seeking for the catheter, and replacing it if disturbed by the patient jipssing about. * * * Keeping the catheter applied on the left to the part to be cut IKP then earned the knife cautiously from the right through the wound, not cutting with 1'' }ut ‘ha‘ its point might directly reach the catheter. He then attentively and ajoutiously thrust the point of the knife into the groove of the catheter; and when he f. lew by the feel that the point of the knife and the catheter touched, and by moving it on eit|ler s‘de’ tllat the11 it was retained within the groove, then moving the knife •refully and firmly up and down, he cut rather downwards, and cautiously accommodat- ?’g th«|catheter to the knife, he cut into the bladder with a moderate-sized wound which if.,; made to descend from above outwards by placing the catheter, which was obviously , t)?f?ary,t0 Prevent injury of the neighbouring parts. He then took care that the 1 i. neter should not recede from the wound m the bladder, and havius; introduced bis S1f/;^ne^'-lyldif0VereJd -the extent of the wound aud the naked catheter ; especially ‘nought it had moved its place, it being necessary that the groove of the catheter IEj* be bare at the wound of the bladder, so that the male conductor might be without 2 hPnTd T° U- -W,hen a11 was aeain right, he took the male conductor with S t '£ the ^n a t?‘!V£ y’ foully and stcadiIy Press«l it forwards, so that it might : irdneJs oftC 1 u tb%catheter without being intercepted, which the resistance and I aCh ot0hllViatteVf0nn,ed1hT °f'i Bemg thus assured, he thrust the conductor I inine hi L ^ S d!'T th? cathetcr in proportion, at the same time gently in- ! 2 a dle h? the ^t. The object of thus doing was that the curve of the catheter I ZZTreltZ -erund 0f th^ladd!r int0 its cavity> aad at the same time the con- I ' <1 certainll 1 V the groove of the catheter, and pushed forwards might more safely I'd if he foumWh CaVlty ‘he h'adder. Hethen moved the conductor gently aboufi ! |at it rested t ^ ca‘h«ter> ,and especially the stone, he more certainly knew l with the ffrpat nrv ^ ^ie rest the operation was performed, left withdrew PtrratU*l’ f°r r'e r,ght,hand held the male conductor in the bladder, & male Eductor anda t er fT* “ V ^^ethra; then the left hand grasped ‘dder. He theTlieveV^ Vi8 *rrne,d the female’ gu'ded by the male, into the cn cleverly held both conductors apart with the fingers of the left hand, 2 v 2CUTTING FOR THE STONE; 580 and with the right pressed the forceps between them directly into the bladder, andwi -j ft drew the female conductor. He then sought for the stone with the forceps, and havi found it, was certified that the forceps had not gone wrong, but were in the bladd it and withdrew the male conductor. He then opened the forceps somewhat and 6u .nt ciently both to enlarge the wound and dilate the bladder as much as possible to separaj « it from the stone. Finally, he searched for, seized and extracted the stone, using t; a same precautions as those are accustomed and ought to use, who well perform thisci a by cutting into the urethra in the perinceum.” Such is the account, not very clear, certainly, which Albinus has left of Rai operation, but important as being the first which was grounded on anatomy, and i s merely empirical. It also led Cheselden to give up the high operation; for, “ hearin;, a says he, “ of the great success of Mr. Rau, professor of anatomy at Leyden, I det« 1 mined to try, though not in his manner, to cut directly into the bladder; and as 1 I operation was an improvement of Friar Jacques’, 1 endeavoured to improve upon h by filling the bladder, as Douglas had done in the high way, with water, leaving t;tj catheter in, and then cutting on the outside of the catheter into the bladder in the sari place as upon the gripe, which I could do very readily, and take out a stone of any si -i with more ease than in any other way. My patients, for some days after the operatic d seemed out of danger, but the urine which came out of the bladder, continually lodgk i| upon the cellular membrane on the outside of the rectum, made fetid ulcers, attend: > 1 with a vast discharge of stinking matter; and from this cause I lost four patients o • of ten. * * * I then attempted to cut into the bladder in the same manner that M s Rau was commonly reported to do, but there had the same inconvenience from t' :< urine’s lodging upon the cellular membrane on the outside of the intestinum rectui Upon these disappointments I contrived the manner of cutting which is now called tl 1 lateral way.” (p. 328-30.)] 2075. The preparation for this operation consists in clearing the per nceum of hair, and in emptying the rectum, by a clyster. The patient j placed on a table covered with a firm matrass, in a horizontal, and t some in a rather reclined posture, with his head supported by pillow The ischial tuberosities should project a little beyond the edge of the tahh The hands are attached by bandages to the feet, which are drawn up. I children, also, especially, who are generally very difficult to hold in tb ? operation, it is advantageous to bind the body with a broad cloth to tb table (1). Two assistants grasp the feet, so as each to press a knee wifi one hand against their breast, and with the other placed on the inside c the foot, to hold it out, and to separate the thighs moderately from eac. other ; a third assistant fixes the pelvis, and a fourth hands the instnoj ments to the operator (2). [(1) The direction here given of fixing a child to the table with a bandage IS V® objectionable on account of the pressure it must make upon the chest and its i'j ference with his breathing. It is also wholly unnecessary, if the assistants know to hold the patient and do so properly. m . (2) Trifling as it might at first seem, the holding a patient properly and st■ during the operation for the stone, is a most important part of the proceeding, an material advantage or disadvantage to the operator, as it is well or ill done; patient ought to be, and may be, without difficulty, so effectually fixed, that • once placed he cannot move. The knees should always be kept as far apart asjwssi^ once piaceu IlU uauuui muvc. x uc ivncca ouuuivx uinuja “r*" * and the heels close upon the outside of the great trochanters, by which the operate ample room for the use of his instruments. The best mode of effecting this is assistant fixing the patient’s knee deeply in his own armpit, and then dropping^ upper arm vertically on the inside of the bound limb, he hugs it closely to nis own ^ and if the patient be powerful and resisting, the assistant throws the weight ot ^ upon the knee, and th liberty, are placed on esi ini ini o tu'- „ The fore-arm and hand bang * upon the knee, and thus easily inclines it outwards. a*ic • tant liberty, are placed on the inside of the leg, to assist the other hand ot tne ^ which should grasp the foot, either across the instep or the middle of the sole, ®. . aIH it outwards. This is the easiest and least fatiguing mode of fixing, both to pa f|efj assistants, and but rarely requires any correction during the operat'"”-, at th, ligature, consisting of a bandage round the neck, carried ™m^ithinoiis alway bent hams, and tied upon the neck, adds much to steadying the patient, and i V ITHE LATERAL OPERATION. 581 !. advantageous; care should, however, be taken to insert a pad between the neck and the bandage, otherwise the former will be unnecessarily wrung. In the operation for the stone it should also be specially remembered that handker- chiefs should be removed, and shirt-collars opened at the throat, or the patient, in his & struggles, may be choked, or at least much distressed ; and in holding him the" assist- ants should be careful not to make any pressure upon the chest. There is no necessity for special fixing the pelvis beyond that which the two assist- ants, standing on either side, are capable of; but if the patient be very powerful and »p restless a third assistant may fix his shoulders, by standing behind and grasping them h with either hand.—J. F. S.J 2076. The operation itself consists of the following acts :—a. the intro- duction of the staff: j3. the cut through the skin and muscles; y. open- d ing the membranous part of the urethra ; S. cutting into the neck of the d bladder; e. the drawing out the stone. 2077. The staff is to he introduced into the bladder, after having been i! oiled, in the same way as the catheter; the presence of the stone is at j once ascertained with it; but the operation should be put off if it cannot *» be distinctly felt. The staff must be held by an assistant, who, atthe same time lifts up the scrotum, either quite straight or inclined a little n towards the right side, or the operator himself holds it with his left hand {a). As the introduction of the staff, after the patient is put in I -he posture directed, is often very difficult, it may be passed before the Kherson is bound. ’ [Brodie mentions a remarkable instance of this kind which occurred to him “ The ? ^TCT dtlf0mCtimeSbe distinctly witb Ae sound, appearing to be of large size ' ±ta °ther TS U n0t be fdt at a11! and sometimes when the bladder was’ of urine, rt could be perceived distinctly with the finger from the rectum ■ tit3*?*- pme*> wben tbe.re was urine in the bladder, it could not be detected at I l„,b.y.th's m°de of examination. In performing the operation,” says he “when I • fJl i med “y fiDger iDt,° ‘he bladder’ 1 coald at fi™t discover no*stone. AtTast J. felt it on the anterior part of the bladder, behind the pubes. It was not Ivine Ioosp b! 8 .ladder h °f b'adder’.but evidently contained in a cyst, communicating^vith the iS a round opening. By means of a probe-pointed bistoury, I cTrefullv e(* I ?n^ce cyst, and then introducing my finger separated thp ’ 'rane of \\ from the calculus, until I was enabled to take hofd of Xe s!oL with X Ij mtQ31”121 tlme tblrteen years old> was operated on successfully.—J. F. sT ’ ^ |j, , ,lhe cut through the skin and muscles is commenced in adult* 1 ;.om fweive to fifteen, in young people, from nine to twTe,7n boys from I o seven, and in children, five lines above the anus on thp wf i c some,li,,es sr? •*. - jvvnwaids, parallel with the ascending branch of the haunclf-bone ..nd at roper distance from it to the middle of a line supposed“drawn I i»l h?h!T' ,0 ‘ 16 ,S,C'",al tuberosi‘y- The first stroke of the knife « -mite so ow" .tissuc- “0» seco"<i. extending ■e%fou r rissso thi;5k^r“K 2 £ ith L volar smLe7, 8 1 ^ ’?f' ,a,lcl- that fi"ger « to be placed f■> . I Sd . Is o 6 pal,er“ S side- at tlm upper angle ns, laid. Clted- P- 15— Dvaon,, Propositions sur diverses parties do 1’Art do ytwrir.CUTTING FOR THE STONE; 582 of the wound, and near to it the part still covering the membranous pa -j are to be divided. At this place I generally press the bistoury on to t. .j staff, thrusting it in the direction as if I would push it up behind ti ,-j pubic symphysis, and then complete the cut by carrying the knife dow b wards (1). If the outer cut be begun higher than directed, there is danger of wounding the hi J of the urethra, and the transverse artery of the perinaum. Continuing the cut low - j endangers either the rectum, or, if the cut be made too much outwards, the intert' .‘4j pudic artery. Rheineck (a) always makes the cut on the right ride, which has no advantage, ai « is only proper if the patient must be cut on the right side (i), which may be the ca d if the rectum, instead of being directly behind the prostate, be on its left side (c). [Brodie directs that the staff be “held nearly perpendicularly, the handle of it beic;H however, a little inclined towards the patient’s right groin. This causes the convexi' '> of the instrument to project slightly on the left side of the perinaum. In the first p< ; of the operation, your attention is to be directed to the staff. You are to feel it wi your left hand, and the knife, held in your right hand, is to be directed towards it ] is a sure guide, following which, you can never err, even in the deepest per mam * * * Where there is any quantity of fat in the perinaum, or anything ev< distantly approaching to what we call a deep perinaum, if you attempt to cut at on into the groove of the staff, the result is, that you open the urethra too far forward, you divide the corpus spongiosum of the penis, which need not in reality he divided- all; and you are then certain of wounding the artery of the bulb of the urethra, whir otherwise is in most instances avoided. Another inconvenience which attends on th method of proceeding is, that the wound being too near to the scrotum, the cellul; membrane of it is in danger of being infiltrated with blood; and another still is, that greater mass of substance is left to be divided, when you continue the incision into tl bladder, than there would have been if you had cut into the urethra further back inti first instance. 1 say, then, let the opening in the urethra be made deep in the perinam behind the bulb, and as near as can be to the prostate. Place the thumb of your le hand on the skin over the staff; and in a man of ordinary size, about an inch and quarter before the anus. Begin your incision immediately below this, on the left sic of the raphe, and continue it backwards and towards the left side, into the space betwee the anus, and the tuberosity of the left ischium. Here you may cut freely; you <a injure nothing of consequence. Then feel for the staff in the wound; direct the poll, of your knife towards it, and carefully cut into the groove, where it lies m the men branous part of the urethra. All these incisions are made low down in the perinatal that is, near the rectum.” (pp. 309, 10.) _ . , A free cut through the skin, proportioned to the patient’s size, is always very aav^ tageous, as it materially facilitates the withdrawal of the stone, if it be large, andprw vents much bruising, which is an object of great importance. I have seen both OTWJI and large external cuts made, and am sure that the latter are preferable to the fonn although 1 am not inclined to make the cut so large as to be able to see through l ***”1 the bladder, as was jokingly said of the operations of Chandler, who '"a* ® . • c good and quick lithotomist, and one of the Surgeons at St. Thomas’s Hospital durini my studentship. It is not the first cut which can wound the rectum, except with at • sive carelessness, but the second, and then it may easily be prevented it the SWgewpi keep the point of his knife raised towards the pubic arch, instead of depressing | towards the rectum, as is too frequently done.—J. F. S.] 2079. The opening of the membranous part of the urethra, and thi cutting into the neck of the bladder, is that act of the operation by " hie the several modes of performing the lateral operation for the stone an distinguished. These may be arranged under the following divisions.-'I First^ the cut into the neck of the bladder made with the same 1 for the outer cut; Second, with some special instrument for the PUIT°V I and from without inwards ; Third, with a special instrument from wi I outwards. ... fo) Medic, und Chirurg. Betracht. Tiber die ein- J 1.. CnWnnhlacnnsclmitiPS ! mit (6) Ki.sin; in fc) Deschamfs, ; in Loder's Journal, vob W- P- iMrs, above cited, vol. *»• P- Obs. 168, 169.THE LATERAL OPERATION WITH THE KNIFE. 583 j* [Scarpa (a) lias made the following important observations in reference to the division £ of the prostate in the lateral operation, whether performed with the knife or with the i gorget:—“ As the apex of the prostate gland forms the greatest resistance to the intro- luction of the forceps and the extraction of the stone, this part of it ought, in every operation of lithotomy in the perinmim, to be completely divided. But with respect to * :he body and base of the gland, an incision, extending to the depth of five lines, through >i its whole length, and consequently including a small portion of the orifice of the bladder, i s, with the aid of a moderate and gradually increased dilatation, sufficient for the •; >xtraction of a stone of more than ordinary size, without the parts through which it i lasses being greatly contused or lacerated. In children, where the orifice of the bladder « rnd base of the prostate gland are easily distended, and in aged persons, in whom the irifice of the bladder, and neck of the urethra are generally much larger than in adults, ■ in incision in the base of the gland less than five lines in depth, and in children, of two i mly, is sufficient for the extraction of a stone of ordinary size, by means of a moderate ) lilatation of those parts. The large size of the stone, for instance, of one exceeding wenty lines in its smallest diameter, is no sufficient ground for dividing the substance if the gland to such an extent as to penetrate into the cellular membrane beyond it and he fundus of the bladder; for as an incision of such depth is constantly followed by the afiltration of urine, gangrenous abscesses, and fistula, between the bladder and rectum, t is obvious that calculi of such size ought never to be extracted by the perinceum. The iteral operation has therefore limits beyond which it is impossible to pass without - sposing the patient to more serious evils than those which could arise from the presence f the stone in the bladder.” (p. 7-9.)] B 2080. The cut into the neck of the bladder made with the same knife. 1 .o this belong the methods of Franco, Frere Jacques, Rau, Ches- Et! lden, Mokand, and others, and as it lias been more or less modified [tuncl employed in recent times by Dubois, Klein, Langenbeck, and BIlern. When the outer cut is made, and the membranous part laid bare, neither the point of the bistoury is introduced on the nail of the left fore- finger, which rests on the groove of the staff, into it, or the point of the gmfe is thrust directly into the groove of the staff, behind the top of its .curve, also behind the symphysis, in a direction as if it were to come out <ct the first lumbar vertebra. The staff is now taken with the left hand i rom the assistant, brought in a parallel direction to the linea alba, pressed ■awards the symphysis, and the knife, held with the whole hand, is thrust ■|ito the groove of the staff, according to the direction of the outer wound Hp to the blind end of the staff, and then in drawing out the knife, its handle iLinga little raised, the inner cut is enlarged. A common somewhat convex I istoury serves the purpose in this method, but the most suitable is a par- « cular knife, the convex blade of which is connected firmly with a rather t ng handle, as the knives of Cheselden (5) and Dubois (c). (W^RAN haV,'ng ,made the cut through the skin and urethra, introduced 1 ivffif r, a beik (s°"ie “ bec> uP°n the S™ove of the staff into the bladder and I d tLn tEdrTU h<3 Staff’l.examined, the stone with the director to ascertain its size then thrust a convex bistoury (bistouri a rondache) into the bladder upon the I rn nV ™ed dorwards’ of th® director- Dent’s method is similar, in which, after I mished withtrI>ran0US Part ° ,thf urethra, and introducing a director, or lithotome I SBTiTS a to,ngue’ ;vas Pushed in s'heways (Dease) (e). In a similar manner I >on the f/r perat^s’ .afte.r °Pe["ng the membranous part, another staff is introduced’ s,ckle-sha^knife'-<•*»«•* *• i &) js a modification of Le Drans method. Key (A) employs merely a If Wlth a vel7 short curve, and a convex bistoury (1). W employs merely a f M 3ul coni}uUore taglienti d’ Haw- 1 via^TIo- es^5,z,ol?e l]ella Pietra <lella Vesica. 1 A’n 2j' Translated by Bnioos. I ieraln^t-3’ APPfin,dix t0 the History of the '«! >:sp.i n» Jatl°n °r 1 le stone, containing Mr. , ntlori, 173*1 Present method of performing it. fa iv kAn'j?vf fted.-CHEMOB's alteration of Dtr- ,le Lithotomifi (d) Traite des Operations, p. 307. Paris, 1742. le) Essay on Hydrocele. if) Practical Observations on the Lateral Opera- tion of Lithotomy, and on the various and new v°< eS,oo,perf'°.rlnin8 this Operation, &c. New York, 1824; with plates. la) Taille au niveau. Avignon, 1765, pi. i. ii. (/i) A short. Treatise on the Section of the I rostatic Gland in Lithotomy, &c. London, 1824 4to.; with plates.584 CUTTING FOR THE STONE; Klein’s (a) method is peculiarly distinguished by his using a common bistoury,i L s he not only always cuts completely through the prostate gland, but always uIso bladder itself. von Kern (6) places the nail of the left thumb in the groove of the staff, and reta ; i it there whilst he carries the knife to the blind extremity of the staff. Guerin’s (c) method may be here mentioned, which, however, has but histori , i interest. [(1) Key’s operation (d) is performed with a straight staff, of which the point: gofe curved slightly upwards to the extent of an inch, so as to avoid its catching in a projecting fold of the bladder, and its groove deeper than in the common staff, to p s JN vent any risk of the knife slipping out. His knife, in form, resembles a cominjdj scalpel, but is longer in the blade, and slightly convex in the back near the point, At* enable it to run with more facility in the groove of the director. Operation.-—“An assistant holding the director with the handle somewhat inclin towards the operator, the external incision of the usual extent is made with the kui until the groove is opened, and the point of the knife rests fairly in the director, whiqJ can be readily ascertained by the sensation communicated; the point being kept steadi h against the groove, the operator with his left hand takes the handle of the direcU i and lowers it till he brings the handle to the elevation described in PI. iii.,* keef ing his right hand fixed; then with an easy simultaneous movement of both ham ! the groove of the director and the edge of the knife are to be turned obliquely towar I the patient’s left side; the knife having the proper bearing is now ready for the sectii of the prostate; at this time the operator should look to the exact line the direct*.} takes, in order to carry the knife safely and slowly along the groove, which may no be done without any risk of the point slipping out. The knife may then be eith< withdrawn along the director, or the parts further dilated, according to circumstance. Having delivered his knife to the assistant, the operator takes the staff in his rigi. hand, and passing the forefinger of his left along the director, through the opening 1 the prostate, withdraws the director, and exchanging it for the forceps, passes the latti upon his finger into the cavity of the bladder. In extracting the calculus, should tl aperture in the prostate prove too small, and a great degree of violence be required t make it pass through the opening, it is advisable always to dilate with the knife, rathe than expose the patient to the inevitable danger consequent on laceration.” (p. 28-30.) Liston (e) uses a curved staff, and a long straight knife slightly convex towards it point. He “ enters the knife freely into the perinceum, about an inch more or less be hind the scrotum, and makes it cut downwards and outwards through the skin am superficial fascia, in a line about midway betwixt the tuberosity of the ischium am the anus, and beyond that orifice towards the sacro-ischiatic ligament. The fore finger of the left hand is then placed in the bottom of the wound, about its middle and directed upwards and forwards; any fibres of the transverse muscle or of th< levator of the anus that offer resistance, are divided by the knife, with its edge tumec downwards; the finger then passes readily through the loose cellular tissue, but u resisted by the deep fascia, immediately anterior to which the groove of the staff car be felt thinly covered. The point of the instrument is slipped along the nail of the finger, and, guided by it, is entered into the groove at this point, with its back still directed upwards. The finger all along is placed so as to depress and protect as much as possible the coats of the rectum. The same knife, pushed forwards, is made to , divide the deep fascia, the muscular fibres within its layers, and a very small portion, not more than two lines, of the urethra anterior to the apex of the prostate, together ■ with the prostatic portion of the canal and the gland, to a very limited extent Thej external incision cannot be too free within certain bounds * * * But the internal incision must be very limited indeed; it should certainly not extend beyond six or seven lines from the urethra, outwards and downwards; for the less that is cut the greater will be the patient’s safety. * * • The object in following this method, is to avoid all interference with the reflection of the ilio-vesical fascia, from the sides of the nun. Erlang, lb04.—MtoHAius, Etwai 3beH** Hlasensteinschnitt. Marburg, 1313, Klein. Ueber Guerin's Instrument rum m ^ schnitt; in Chiron., vol. ii. part ii. pi *>. r'' (а) Chirurg. Ileobacht., p. 1. Stuttgart, 180'. —l’raktische Ansichten dcr bedeutendsten Opera- tionen, pt. ii. Stuttgart, 1816. (б) Above cited. (cj Memoire sur l’Opfration delaTaille; in Recueil des Actes de la Socicte de Lyon, p. 390, vol. ii. 1801.—Treyehan, Parall^le ties diverses Methodes proposies pour 1’extraotUm des Calculs vesicaux par l'appareil laterale &c. Paris, 1802.— Chrestiken, Dissert, de Nova Lithotomia Gue- Montaona; in von Grakfe und vote'Vm-this' Journal vol. iv. p. 307, pi. vi. f. 3-6.~S«%" Baltimore Med. and Surg. Journ. and Itev. April, p. 13. (d) Short Treatise, above cited. ^ % n • tt ■ TV .ltl( 1334. (e) Practical Surgery. Fourth Edition. * This is the only direction laid down as to the position of the staff, and I am sorry I am unable give it more precisely.—J. F. S.585 THE LATERAL OPERATION (CHESELDEN’S.) 4 pelvic cavity over the base of the gland and side of the bladder. If this natural it boundary between the external and internal cellular tissue is broken up, there is (i scarcely a possibility of preventing infiltration of urine, which must almost cer- «tainly prove fatal. The prostate and other parts around the neck of the bladder are very elastic and yielding, so that without much solution of their continuity, and with- out" the least laceration, the opening can be so dilated as to admit the forefinger readily; through the same wound the forceps can be introduced upon this as a guide.” (p. 508-11.) Cheselden’s Operation. Cheselden’s operation for the stone, his “ lateral way,” as he calls it, has much perplexed writers on this subject. Cheselden himself has distinctly given two modes n which he performed this operation ; the first described in the Appendix to the ourth edition of his Anatomy of the Human Body, ] 730 ; and the second in the Vppendix to the fifth edition 1740; seventh edition, 1750 ; which was the last published a his lifetime, as he died in 1752; and, I presume, also in the sixth, though I have lot had an opportunity of consulting this. In 1731, Dr. James Douglas published in Appendix to the History of the Lateral Operation for the Stone, containing Mr. )heselden|s present method of performing it. 4to. This differs remarkably from Jheselden’s account in his fourth edition; but it is the same precisely, though more ' “Ny detailed, as in Cheselden’s fifth and seventh editions ; and, therefore, although Dr. 'elloly’s (a) observation is perfectly correct, that “ the least consideration will show inat this (Douglas’s) account of Cheselden’s improved operation is perfectly irre- oncilable with that which is given by Cheselden himself, in the Appendix to the \mrth edition of his Anatomy, or by Mr. Morand, with his sanction and authority ” :et the comparison of the fourth and fifth editions will prove that Douglas’s state- tent is correct, and not “ the absurd statement,” nor “ an operation which it is next to TePprc4entTimrf01m^ ^ ^ b6en designated a hiSh1}' distinguished Surgeon of Cheselden’s instruments were a staff, knife, and blunt gorget with a beak. The ^including its handle and straight stem, measured six inches and a quarter in PJgth, and to its extremity joined the grooved part five inches and a half more i tie sulcus or groove is remarkably deep and wide, the edges smooth and blunt—one °\ u peaches a little way down on the handle, and the other, ending in an obtuse nnt, is without any check, as is seen in your common staffs. This part may again be vmed into a curved portion and a straight rostrum or beak. The curvature next e handle not very great, and extends but a little way back from it; and from the •trernity thereof, the long rostrum projects almost directly forwards.” (b) This statement of the curve and the length of the beak of the staff is important, as JnJT ln Cheselden s operation that there could not be any difficulty in i !„ fZ ett, ‘C e°frget'as 11 would run at once into the bladder in a horizontal direc- 1 Dref? J® ex.te.™al wound, without depressing the handle of the staff, which | sta S lffh f the operation is now performed, whether the common curved traight staff be used. The other instruments need no notice. iti^fnf df.sfibef bis operations, the commencement of which -v Ltjiwii a uicuiKet several ciouu ittle more, with his head only raised. I first make as long an incision as I well mufn,'l 'ng nea/" th,G P aC® whero tbe old operation ends, and cutting down between musculus accelerator unnae and erector penis and bv Hie side nf ■ , • eu ‘m; 1 then feel for the staff,” 1 7 Slde ot the lnlest™“™ has far the two editions are the same; but now comes the important difference Fourth Edition, 1730. I Fifth Edition, 1740. 1 Id TtrcluZ t °i n' PT°fate ! “ holding down the gut all the while with cut ..n il * tf-i jl.a?cler’ boldlng down one or two fingers of my left hand and cut ' ■ ,, ot „ ? °Pera‘ hvs beyond the corpora cavernosa urethra: fl-ti,l /Tio J .. I / 7 ... ^ . ’ , . A tins opera- is the same as in the old way.” (p. 344.) ) Med.-Chir. Trang., vol. xv. p. 347. U UV4-1/GI /H/OUl Ul Clfll CLj and in the prostate gland, cutting from below upwards, to avoid wounding the gut.” (p. *330.) (6) Douolas’s, above cited, p.4.CUTTING FOR TIIE STONE 586 Such are Cheselden’s own words, and the only difference between the operation4s 1740 and Dr. James Douglas’s description is that it is more explicit; and, in his prefe; he says:—“I am obliged to Mr. Cheselden for the chief materials of this pap it was impossible to draw it up to good purpose without him; and since he has been v j kind as to communicate to me, with the greatest readiness and without reserve all particulars which I could not otherwise have come to the knowledge of, I amco: ii dent, that none will pretend to dispute but what I here describe is his operation, and * whole operation.” The following is the important part of Douglas’s description of i r operation of Cheselden’s fifth edition:—After having detailed the first incision, Lii says that Cheselden “ having cut the fat pretty deep, especially near the intestin M rectum, covered by the sphincter and levator ani, he puts the forefinger of his left hand i. fcu the wound, and keeps it there till the internal incision is quite finished; first to dir4 < the point of his knife into the groove of his staff, which he now feels with the end l'» his finger, and likewise to hold down the intestinum rectum, by the side of which i; I knife is to pass, and so prevent its being wounded. This inward incision is made w ■ j more caution and more leisure than the former. His knife first enters the groove of t << s rostrated or straight part of his catheter, through the sides of the bladder, immediati i '* above the prostata, and afterwards the point of it continuing to run in the same grocit % in a direction downwards and forwards, or towards himself, he divides that part of t! • sphincter of the bladder that lies upon that gland, and then he cuts the outside of c | i half of it obliquely, according to the direction and whole length of the urethra tl * runs within it, and finishes his internal incision by dividing the muscular portion of 11 >: urethra on the convex part of his staff. When he first began to practise this method, ! ij cut the very same parts the contrary way ; that is, his knife entered first the muscul -J part of the urethra, which he divided laterally from the pendulous part of its bulb to b e j apex, or first point of the prostate gland, and from thence directed his knife upward a ; a backward all the way into the bladder ; as we may read in the Appendix he lately pu | lished to the fourth edition of his Book of Anatomy. But some time after he observe J that in that manner of cutting, the bulb of the urethra lay too much in the way; 11 | groove of the staff was not so easily found, and the intestinum rectum was in mo danger of being wounded.” (pp. 12, 13.) In further proof of the correctness of Douglas’s statement, Sharp (a), in speakiiet of RaCs operation for the stone, and Cheselden’s first mode of proceeding in 1 ; lateral operation of 1730, says :—“ After this unsuccessful trial, Mr. Cheselden mat use of the following method, which is now the practice of most English operators. Tl patient being laid on a table, &c. This (the external) wound must be carried on deep between the muscles, till the prostate can be felt, when searching for the staff and fixii. t it properly if it has slipped, you must turn the edge of the knife upwards, and cut U whole length of that gland from within outwards, at the same time pushing down tl rectum with a finger or two of the left hand, by which precautions the gut will alwa; escape wounding.” (pp. 99,100.) And in contrast with this, speaking of “ the old way,) which the urethra only is wounded about two inches on this side the prostate, and tl instruments are forced through the rest of the passage, which is composed of the bulboi part of the urethra, the membranous part of the urethra, the neck of the bladder, an the prostate gland,” he observes :—“ It is pity, the operators do not in the old way alwaj slide the knife, along the groove of the staff till they have quite wounded through th length of the prostate.” (pp. 104, 105.) The remainder of the operation, as described in the fifth edition, are Cues ELDS' own words :—“ And then passing the gorget very carefully in the groove of the staff wt the bladder, bear the point of the gorget hard against the staff observing all the whil that they do not separate, and let the gorget slip to the outside of the bladder : then pass the forceps into the right side of t he bladder, the wound being on the left side o the perinceum; and as they pass, carefully attend to their entering the bladder, which i known by their overcoming a straitness, which there will be in the place of th' wound ; then taking care to push them no further, that the bladder may not be hurt I first feel for the stone with the end of them, which having felt, I open the forceps an* slide one blade underneath it, and the other at the top; auu if I apprehend the stone t not in the right place of the forceps, I shift it before I offer to extract, and then extrac it very deliberately, that it may not slip suddenly out of the forceps, and that the j of the wound may have time to stretch, taking great care not to gripe it so hard as < break it; and if I find the stone very large, I again cut upon it, as it is held m t forceps. Here I must take notice, it is very convenient to have the bladder emP -. urine before the operation; for if there is any quantity to flow out of the bladder at (n) Treatiso on the Operations of Surgery. London, 1751. Sixth Edition.THE LATERAL OPERATION (CHESELDEN’S.) 587 one moment _< assing in of the gorget, the bladder does not contract but collapse into i |,,akes it ditficult to lay hold of the stone without hurting the bladder, but i i! is contracted, it is so easy to lay hold of it, that I have never been delayed ( unless the stone was very small, (pp. 330, 31.) ■ Douglas also gives an account of the dissection of the parts concerned in this opera- ‘ tion, w'hich, he says, “I have had several good opportunities of examining in dead 1 subjects, upon which Mr. Cheselden was so kind as, at my request, to perform his 5 operation. I once likewise opened the body of a patient who had been cut by him for «* the stone, in which I found the parts divided in the very same manner in which they K. /I onn Vvnnioc T nnrl niccnnfnn f I 'V* nr. L r. n„lr. A . ;;subcutaneous portion of the sphincter »»i, uevemn, ue uiviues in a pretty oblique direction, a large portion of the levator ani that lies on the inside of the liga- mentum pubis transversum, &c.” These are some of the principal parts; but as Mr. Cheselden does not always make his outward wound precisely in the same place,” rhey need not be further noticed. “ The internal wound is through the bladder, pros- tate gland, and urethra. First, The vesica urinaria, covered with the membrana cellu- 'aris is cut in two places, viz., first, a small portion of it a little above the prostate gland • in the left side, where he enters the knife first into the groove of his staff, and then part if the bladder which lies round the orifice upon the upper part of that gland ; second, •he substance of one-half of the prostate gland is likewise divided laterally from with- out, inwards, in the direction of the urethra that lies within it, through the whole length if that part of the canal; third, the iter urince, or canal of the urethra, is divided in two ilaces, and both laterally: first, the beginning of it, which runs through the substance if the prostate lengthways, at the same time the incision is made through it, and the irethra into the groove of the staff. The next is the membranous part of the urethra, $ rith the circular muscle that surrounds it beginning at the apex inferior of the prostate i tnd ending a little beyond the hole in the septum tendineum, under the pendulous part of j * * To this short enumeration of the parts, one observation may be lidded, which is, that if the operator turns the edge of his knife too far backwards, and |hen raises it to cut, he can scarcely be able to avoid wounding the intestinum rectum iretty high, some part of the vesiculce seminules next the prostate, and the verum mon- anum within the urethra that runs through that gland, together with a large portion of Jj („ ™at°r anterior and of the ligamentum suspensorium vesicce, that closely embrace The celebrated Martinead, of Norwich, followed pretty nearly Cheselden’s Operation of 1730, using the knife and blunt-beaked gorget, the latter being em- y toyed, to use Crosse’s words, “as a conductor, and also as a dilator of the bladder.” | f/. V’'\ Martineau (a), describing his own operation, says he used “ a staff in if,,.1? , #* F°°^ T? Tch Wldel: and deeper than usual, and therefore more easily 1 ;hik V, m^de his first incision long, deep, and nearly in a line with the raphe ghich, he thought, facilitated the cure ; he then felt for the groove, and introduced^the fc omtof the knife into it as low down as he could, and cut the membraLus part of die con‘luulng his k™fe through the prostate into the bladder; whenfinstead of Rnlarglllg the WOUTld downwurdc orw-1 fV»ne /I : xi_ _ ■» . ■I,* ° : > uverauu over again. Winch Often ( OPS En n, lLbU 0311 glV,e 110 adv,a.ntaSe over the two incisions, which he generally depended t± r ? *n 7e,T lar.ee subjects, where a little further dissecting may be readied f ghfc°SSe Stl ni A‘S left hand’ whilst he introduced the blunt gorget with his ! | l’t, d,by ‘f111,8 taking the management of the staff and gorget into his own hands tHe an,d discovered at once if it were slipping from ?he groove .r,ladder On^h£TentHd by deP/ess,”S the gorget while it is pushing on towards the Suet “ ‘ n tfA A IF ?fte-U the,eaSU and success of ‘he operation. * * * After Btuafion of the stone width ’^f fonnd0^^ hlS finSer’ aijd endeavoured to feel the -creeps to lav hold of’it h! f found* '? a great advantage in the direction of the B found more ewt tfextract r«mnewha?y A tbaVtraight forceps, and it will small ones.” (p 409-11 ) wholc’ by rather large forceps, than with fiat >^follow[ng> CHEs^LDEN^methnll7 f *®.rno<?e of operating with the knife, and though ■11 (n) On Lithni ; d’ dlstlnct>y shows that even he occasionally cut as On Lithotomy; In Med.-Chlr.Trans., vol. xt. <» Ch.rurgical Observations and Cases, vol. ii. London, 1772. 8vo.588 CUTTING FOR THE STONE; Cheselden did, and as is stated by Douglas. “ I begin my incision of the externa t integuments,” says he, “ about half an inch below the commissure of the ossa pub in, <j I the left side of the raphe, and pursue it by a quick stroke, obliquely outwards an. I downwards between the anus and obtuse process of the ischium, ending somewhat lowe 1 than the basis of that process. As soon as the integuments are thus divided, I introduc I the fore and middle fingers of my left hand: with the last I keep back the lip of th 1 wound next the raphe, and with the index press down the rectum. I then make 1 second incision, almost in the same direction with the first, but rather nearer to th 1 raphe and anus, and sufficiently deep to divide the transversalis penis, and as much ( 8 the levator ani and ligamentous membrane as will make the prostate gland perceptibl I by my finger; I then, with the index of my left hand, feel for the sulcus of the stall I which serves as a conductor to my knife for opening the membranous part of th 3 urethra, and afterwards for dividing part of the prostate; the rectum is likewise by m ; fingers kept out of the way of the knife in the next part of the operation, which I effec 1 in the following manner. Hitherto I hold the blade of my knife like a pen, between th I forefinger and thumb, and resting on the middle finger of my right hand, with the bad >1 of the blade uppermost, but now I take it between the forefinger and thumb of my righ, 4 hand, with the handle towards the palm of my hand on the inside, the back of the blad t facing the inside of the index of the right hand : I then turn the back of this hand tha f holds the knife downwards, and convey the knife to'the membranous part of the urethra | by gliding the under fingers of my right hand on the index of my left hand, whid k serves as a conductor of the knife to the gland ; as soon as I perceive that, I feel for th i groove of the staff with the index of my left hand, with which I convey the convex edg-4 of the knife into the membranous part of the urethra, as much laterally as is possible j and as nigh to the prostate. When I am clearly in the sulcus of the staff, I turn th< i back of my knife as much downwards as I can, to avoid wounding the rectum, as I tha, push the blade of the knife along the groove of the staff into the body of the gland, sliding the knife on the convexity of its edge, till it has divided nearly half th length of that gland ; and if I wish to cut a little more of it, I incline the handle of m; knife a little downwards, and towards the left ischium. The point of the knife will thei. drop into the groove of the staff, and by drawing the knife in this situation towards mt I shall certainly make good the wound of the prostate, so as near two-thirds of it mar be divided in the operation. This last stroke of my knife is what is generally caller | “ cutting from within outwards.” I then introduce the beak of the common gorge ret: I &c.” (p. 229-32.) . .. “ The next step of the operation,” says Brodie, “ is the continuance of the inoisioi along the posterior part of the urethra, and the dilatation of the neck of the bladder Some recommend this to be accomplished by means of the common scalpel, with whid you have made the external incisions; the point being steadily introduced along th j groove of the staff, with the edge turned outwards, so as to divide the left side of th prostate. This was Cheselden’s mode of operating.—[Not his last mode of operating certainly, as I have shewn from his own words.—J. f. s.]—After having incised thu prostate and neck of the bladder, Cheselden introduced the blunt gorget, so as todilat* the wound still further, answering at the same time the purpose of a conductor for th forceps; and, as far as I can learn, this method was followed generally by the EngulBj Surgeons up to the time of Sir Caesar Hawkins,” who “caused one side of the gorge to be ground to a sharp edge, and thus converted the blunt into a cutting Sor£"- j * * * I cannot but think that there are some considerable objections to it (th j cutting gorget.) The incision is made as it is being thrust into the bladder. In®0W| sequence of the thick wedge-like form of the instrument, the prostate, and especially*J hard and enlarged prostate, offers to it considerable resistance. A certain quantity o j force is necessary for its introduction; and if that force be not well applied, the beat I may slip out of the groove of the staff into the space between the bladder and ^ 1 • rectum, an accident which is too surely followed by the death of the patient. * . . j Although I have very frequently used the cutting gorget, I generally make the mast I cf the prostate with the knife,” of which “ the blade is broad enough to divide a I siderable portion of the prostate as it enters the bladder, without its being neeessaryi increase the size of the incision by cutting laterally afterwards ; and instead of a ***1 point, it terminates in a beak, fitted to the groove of the staff. In ordinary c*®®* I knife of this kind with a single cutting edge is sufficient, but in cases of very fr calculi there are good reasons for dividing both sides of the prostate. There» t ; jection to this being done that I can discover, and for such cases I have been ,or ' j time in the habit of using a double-edged knife with a beak projecting from itss ^ , Havin'7 made the opening into the membranous part.of the urethra; you are toV.'HE LATERAL OPERATION WITH THE KNIFE (LANGENBECK’S.) 589 . 0f the beaked knife into the groove of the staff, you then take the handle of f lie staff into the left hand, depressing it at the same time. You depress your right .;!‘nd a|go s0 that the handle of the knife, which you hold m it, lies in the lower part * the external wound. You are now to push the knife along the groove of the staff iito the bladder, with its cutting edge inclined outwards, and a little downwards Awards the ramus of the ischium, if you use a single-edged knife; but holding it hori- zontally if you use one with a double edge. Let this be done slowly and cautiously, ■> king care that you do not lose the feeling of the beak sliding over the smooth surface V - the staff for a single instant. Generally, as the knife enters the bladder, a few drops ! v- urine escape, but never any large quantity. This being accomplished, you are to Withdraw the knife along the groove of the staff in the same line in which you intro- i iced it. Never cut with it laterally, except you find it afterwards absolutely necessary ill do so on account of the large size of the stone; for in cutting laterally, you will find JV* difficult to measure exactly the extent of your incision ; and you may endanger your ILtient’s life in consequence of your dividing the parts beyond the boundaries of the 1,.-estate. The next step of the operation is to introduce your finger, directed by the ii raff, into the bladder, so that you may feel the parts which are divided, and determine ■i ?,hether the incision is properly made. If you operate on a child, or on a young and -•jiiin person, you may then at once introduce the forceps into the bladder. But if you -tierate on a full-grown person, and especially on one having a deep perinceum, it will Afe prudent for you first to introduce the blunt gorget previously to using the forceps. . * * * The gorget is intended to answer the purpose of a director for the forceps, ps ut it answers another purpose also; it is a dilator of the wound—the knife divides t ply a portion of the prostate. The gorget splits the remainder as far as its breadth i lows it to do so. Do not for an instant suppose that this is any rude or violent pro- .£ -eding. It is far otherwise. The incision of the prostate having been begun by the d) aife, the extension of it by means of the blunt gorget is accomplished with the greatest ise. * * * You will ask why not make such a division of the parts by cutting terally with the knife ? Why prefer the dilatation of the wound by the blunt gorget ? jS [y answer is, that the separation of the parts with the latter instrument causes no ir smorrhage; and that it ceases as soon as it reaches the margin of the prostate; that > , as soon as it reaches the condensed cellular membrane, which forms what may be filled its capsule.” (p. 111-15.)] d 2081. Langenbeck’s knife (a) is specially distinguished by its point saving a cover or guard, by means of which he passes it more readily fl*id safely along the groove of the staff. It is used in the following T'. tianner:—When the membranous part of the urethra is laid bare, the nail f the left forefinger is placed in the groove of the staff, and directed by it, ie point of the lithotome perforates, the parts still covering the staff; I to] fal ie right hand holding the stem of the lithotome, inclines it towards the tight Thigh, so that its point forms a right angle with the beak of the staff, rfipe handle of which is held inclined towards the right groin, and with its H later edge a little downwards. The point of the knife is now carried a d ttle forwards in the groove of the staff, for the purpose of enlarging the icjpening, and moved up and down in the groove, in order to open it satisfac- ■ wily. The hand of the assistant, and with it the handle of the staff, is then ■rasped with the left hand and raised so as to bring its concavity against the tabic arch : whilst this is doing the point cover is pushed forwards, the obndle of the lithotome being firmly pressed against the palm of the hand the ring, middle, and little fingers, the point of the forefinger carried jf°m the back to the side, and the thumb on the back of the instrument, that the latter lies fixed behind the button of the point cover, and, as it ; straightened, thrusts the cover forwards; the knife is then moved up • lid down to ascertain that it is actually in the groove of the staff. The thotome then, with its edge towards the extremity of the cut in the skin, f thrust along the staff to its blind extremity, in doing which the point of &LUebe,r ejne ci”fac1ic und slcliere Methode des Steinschnittes. Wiirzb., 1802. His alteration of the tome is found in the Neue liibliothek fiirdie Chirurgie und Ophthnlmologie, vol. i. p. 429, f. 1.CUTTING FOR THE STONE; 590 the lithotome is first a little sunk and the handle raised, till it has pass-: 4 beyond the curved part of the staff, when the handle is sunk and the poi ; j a little raised. The knife is withdrawn in the same direction. [Thomas Blizard, who was a very able operator, after opening the groove of t staff in the usual way, divided the prostate gland, laterally, hy means of a narrow a bladed knife, about four inches long, and having a beak inclined at an angle towards t r. right side of the blade. (I am informed by his nephew Stanley, that he never los n patient from bleeding, after this operation.) Astley Cooper, also, for a time used < long-beaked knife, but with the beak projected directly forward ; the greater number operations, however, which 1 saw him perform were done with the single-cutting gorg-; He was, however, as Tyrrell observes, “ fond of variety,” and I have seen hi. * operate with both single and double cutting and blunt gorgets, as well as with the kni Tyrrell always used the straight-beaked knife for dividing the prostate gland. 1 1 was a very able and successful lithotomist, and thus describes his operation (a) “ T staff is first introduced, and should well fill the urethra; the larger it is the better, you have the advantage of a deeper groove. The staff is then firmly held by ; assistant, and the bulb of the penis is made to project a very little towards the left gic- I now take the double-edged scalpel, make an incision through the integuments ai fascia of the perinceum on the left side of the raphe, commencing at the point jt beneath the lower edge of the symphysis, at the place where the urethra begins curve under the arch of the pubes', and continue it downwards and outwards to opposi1 the middle of the anus, between it and the tuberosity of the ischium. If you beg above the place just mentioned, it cannot be of any service in extracting the stone, next make an incision into the groove of the staff, as near as possible to its median lin because I think the danger of haemorrhage from the transverse artery of the perinau or any other artery is less in proportion to the distance you are from its origin soon as I have laid open the urethra and carried the knife into the groove, I introduf the nail of the forefinger of my left hand and satisfy myself that the knife is properl within the groove, although you may feel pretty confident of it by the sensation pr, duced in rubbing the knife in the staff. Then incline the edge of the knife a litt outwards, and carry it on nearly to the prostate gland, then I carry it down deeply mi the perinceum, in the direction of the first incision, to divide the deep muscles there as withdraw the knife. I then lay aside the scalpel, and take Astley Cooper s Ion straight knife in my right hand, take hold of the staff firmly with my left, and the introduce the beak of the knife fairly within the groove, keep it well against the stale and carry it onwards, following the curve of the staff, into the bladder. . The knili having entered the bladder, I give the staff to an assistant to hold steadily in the san position, and introduce my finger on the surface of the rectum, under the point of the kmf which I can then feel in the bladder, and divide the prostate, as I withdraw the knifi in the direction of the former incision, letting its probe point rest on my finger, whio is at this time protecting the rectum from injury. If I operate on a child, where tt perinceum is shallow, I introduce my finger into the bladder and feel the stone, an then withdraw the staff and introduce the forceps on the finger. But if the pennant is deep, I introduce the forceps with the blades a little open, and glide one blade alon the groove of the staff, upon which it very readily finds its way into the bladder, an rests upon the stone, which I then grasp, by deliberately opening the blades ot a forceps, and cautiously withdraw it.” (pp. 637, 38.) To this account of 1 mode of operating I may add, that in introducing and withdrawing the beaked km e, did not hold the blade vertical, but with its sides inclining a little upwards and downj wards, so that the edge was turned somewhat outwards, and the knife seemed to lea *1 the wound after dividing the prostate almost flat.—J. F. S.] 2082. The cut having been made in one of these ways, the fing?r 1 passed through the wound into the bladder, the staff removed, and, if tji' * . P .1 n * x 1 I £iirr*»r_ TOl* cut be sufficiently large, the forceps are introduced upon the finger, 101 the purpose of drawing forth the stone without much bruising and teanng of the edges of the wound ; but if the cut be too small, it must be enlarged* carefully and slowly, with the finger, the forceps, or some special dda ory or with a button-ended bistoury, according to the direction of the ou 1 2083. This mode of operating is the most simple of all; the operaton (n) Clinical Lectures on Stone in the Nlailder; in Lancet, 1823-24, vol. ii.LATERAL OPERATION WITH THE CUTTING GORGET. 591 i Iocs not depend on the mechanism of his instrument, but can modify its direction and efficiency at his pleasure. It is dangerous in unpractised hands, which, however, is also the case with every operation. The I entrance of the knife into the groove of the staff may be difficult; it may dip from it, and the rectum and bladder may be wounded. Langen- beck’s lithotome allows an easy and safe introduction into the groove of [he staff. 2084. The cut into the neck of the bladder and the prostate gland with j particular instrument, from without inwards. To this belongs the use : )f the cutting gorget, and of Le Cat’s bistouri cache. 2085. In using the cutting gorget, the nail of the left forefinger, after >i. he membranous part is laid bare by the external cut, is introduced into r he groove of the staff, and the membranous part of the urethra, laid open to *; tome extent by the bistoury carried upon it. The beak of the gorget is now jntered into the groove of the staff thus opened, upon the finger-nail still h •emaining there, the handle of the staff grasped with the left hand, and, tt ifier moving the gorget several times up and down, to ascertain that its :i leak is certainly in the groove, the gorget is pushed forward to the blunt k :nd of the staff, the staff removed, and the forceps introduced. ! The cutting gorget, invented by Hawkins (a), in 1753, has undergone various mo- & iifications, of which those by Desault (5), Cline (e), Astley Cooper (d), Scarpa (e), a; nd Graefe (/) are considered the best. I: [Although Sharp (g) states, that Cheselden’s lateral operation “is now (1751) the 96 practice of most English operators,’’ (p. 99,) yet it appears not to have been pursued for v ny great length of time, and, perhaps, not so largely as Sharp would seem to infer; as if t were practised by others with anything like similar success to that of Cheselden him- V . ilf, it would be scarcely probable that Serjeant Hawkins should have set about improv- 9 Qg the blunt gorget, by giving one of its sides a cutting edge, which he did between If 751 and 1754, for, “ after having mentioned the objections to the continued incision of k-ihe urethra, and prostate gland ” in the old way, or with the apparatus major, Sharp (A) ays:—“ I shall observe, that Mr. Serjeant Hawkins seems to have fallen on an inge- 9 ious contrivance, not only for removing them, but also giving the last hand towards iftierfecting the lateral operation.— [Though he should more correctly have said, altering H- ie old mode of dividing the prostate with the blunt gorget, by dividing it with a cut- Sc ng gorget, which was very different from Cheselden’s operation.—j. f. s.J —This he ly ffects by making his gorget to cut on the right side, so that when it is introduced upon 1/ ie staff, and pushed on into the bladder, it necessarily makes an incision on the left f ideof the urethra and prostate gland.” (pp. 212, 13.) As Hawkins’s gorget still re- i fined the form of the blunt gorget, except as to its cutting edge, it could not divide the V restate laterally, but upwards and outwards; or, as Scarpa observes, “ not laterally, fi ut rather at its upper part, towards the summit of the ramus of the ischium, and the arch • • the pubes ; an opening of all others, in the perinceum, the most confined, and present- f"'g the greatest impediment to the passage of the stone from the bladder” (p. 13) ; so * 'at the prostate was really not divided as in Cheselden’s operation. Hawkins’s ■< orget, which was pretty much like IIildanus’s conductor or blunt gorget, with the P', ,)n ttle middle, had a cutting edge about two-thirds of its length; but Else (i) ob- V 'rv™> that “ it should not cut the whole length of the instrument, as it will then do i 1Qch mischief by wounding the internal pudendal artery, which is pretty large, and i mnot be easily secured, therefore the gorget should not cut more than half an inch in 1 In? iV 1>a,u.as, De variis Calculum secanil Kit,. „.LuSd- Batav., 1751.—A. Louis e i. dissert, de Methode Hawkinsiani ii IaVia sect>one proestasitia. Paris, 1770. S’, A „„ u an<^"nS 'iber der Steinschnitt nacl ■ HAWKiNs’schen Methode; ii a 'r.LNac,hla;ss- vol> "• Part iv- v-180.—Haus •<' >n ^,Benrtheilun(? ilerHaWKiNs'schen Method f Blaaenstein op,,riren. Braunschweig I lethod* r^..BTe“erk,un«?n..ribei: Hawkiki pthrwi« ”emerkungen ubcr IIa «• fr'i K'm ; m ^i * * * * * * *l?ournal» vo1- P- I • iii f g1'1^ H 9^"ri,rg- Beobacht., vol. i. p. 22 (d) Saviony, Engravings, &c., pi. vi. fig. 4. (e) Mem. de l’Institut, vol. ii. p. 1.—Erinnerun- gen nbcr Hawkins sclineiddendes Gorgeret, nn Ausziehung des Blasensteines ; in Salzb. Med.- Chirurg. Zeitung, vol. i. p. 31.—Oi.i.ivikr, above cited, p. 1. pi. 1. (./) Bornsteines Prakt. Handbuch fiir Wund- ar-/,te, vol. iii. p. 98. Fifth Edition. I^ipzig. (//) Treatise on the Operations of Surgery. London, 1751. Fourth Edition. (A) Critical Enquiry into the present state of Surg-rv. London, 17.17. Third Edition. t0 MS. Lectures on Surgery.592 CUTTING FOR THE STONE; length.” Whether this restriction of the length of the cutting edge originated with hi or with Benjamin Bell I cannot positively state, as the copy of Elbe’s Lectures 1 ha is without date : but I should be inclined to think it did, or it is probable he would ha mentioned the in other respects variation of shape which Bell’s gorget has. In tl latter instrument, the shaft is much narrowed, and deep to within an inch of the l>ea at which part it suddenly sweeps out on the right side like a lip, and thence cuts witl sharp rounded edge to the beak. A very slight inspection of either of these gorgets will show, that they cannot divi the side or thicker part of the prostate gland, but that they must cut through its upp part, making, as Scarpa observes, “ an opening, of all others in the perinaum the in- confined, and presenting the greatest impediment to the passage of the stone from t bladder.” (p. 13.) To remedy this objection, the elder Cline made a most importa change in the form of the gorget. Instead of the beak being, as previously, in, or near in the middle of the end of the instrument, which was rounded, he placed the beak on t, left side, lengthening that side a third beyond the right side, by a flat horizontal pla beyond the concavity of the gorget. In this way a straight diagonal edge was forme from the short right to the long left side of the instrument; this diagonal was made cutting edge, and at its extremity projected the beak about a quarter of an inch, fit tened on the sides, and reaching a little above and a little below the cutting edge. Tl extent of the wound made by this instrument depended upon the width of the shaft the gorget, which was equally wide and moderately deep, from the hind part of tl cutting edge up to the handle. The width of the shaft varied from half an inch to i inch in different sized gorgets; for children, the former was usually employed; in aduli generally one of three-quarters wide, and when the prostate was large, that of an inc Such width was found by experience sufficiently ample for the division of the prostat but not so as to cut into the cellular tissue surrounding that gland. With this instr- ment I witnessed my highly valued master, the younger Cline, operate twenty-si times with the loss of three cases, one of which an elderly man, sunk within a few horn without any assignable or discoverable cause beyond the shock of the operation, ai another, whose stone was triple phosphate, died a few days after, and was found to hai the bladder, now in the Museum at St. Thomas's, much thickened, and its whole interii beset with fungosities. With the same instrument my friend Green cut about forty (f cases successively, without losing a case. Sufficient proof, it must be admitted, that tl cutting gorget is not the dangerous instrument, either as to its immediate or deferrt results^ which it has been so much the fashion to describe it. , Scarpa objected to Hawkins’s gorget, on the grounds already mentioned; ai thought that the alterations of it by Bell, Desault and Cline, rendered it “ an instP ment, of all others, least adapted to the performance of the lateral operation” (p. 14 and therefore made an alteration of his own, which diminishing the general width < the instrument, still kept the two-thirds of the edge nearest the point cutting, as i Hawkins’s instrument, but widening the middle third to the extent of three lines, nra somewhat elliptical form. His instrument has not, however, found many admirers i this country. , . Astley Cooper at first used a gorget with a central beak, “ and cutting upon ^ edges, but he thought it occasioned too much bleeding, and divided more than was «W lutely necessary for the removal of the stone.” He therefore gave it up, and opera sometimes with Cline’s gorget, and sometimes with his own knife; but I think ISW him more frequently use the former in his hospital practice.—J. f. s. The directions given by Chelius for the use of the cutting gorget are notsatis factory, for more is requisite than to introduce its beak into the stall, and push it o ward. Such, however, is the too common method of using the instrument, and hen arises the difficulty and danger with which, in the hands of inattentive persons, it is Desa- lt will be convenient here first to mention the directions given by Astley Coop for opening the membranous part of the urethra, which are those commonly adopti the operation with the cutting gorget. “The scrotum being elevated, the incision begun opposite the under part of the arch of the pubes, and is continued on the lei • of the raphe, along the perinaum, as far as midway between the tuberosity o ischium and the anus. The first incision should divide the skin. &c., and expo. accelerator urinm; the second should be carried between the left crus penis sna 1 . \ ( the latter being pressed towards the right side by the forefinger of the Surgeon hand. A part of the accelerator urinee is divided, and the transrersus /imna* , j be freely cut, as it forms a great impediment to the extraction of the stone, n un'11' The next incision should be made into the groove of the staff, by cutting into . branous portion of the urethra; for this purpose the knife must be directed up (a) Lancet, 18-7, 28, vol. i. p. 6!.THE LATERAL OPERATION WITH THE CUTTING GORGET. 593 * that is, its point raised towards the handle of the staff,—j. f. s.,) and not horizontally, ijntherwise the rectum is endangered. The opening made to expose the groove of the •nU.talf should be an inch in length.” (pp. 249, 50.) 1v* The membranous part of the urethra having been opened by the third cut, and well ,|><>pened, by moving the point of the knife up and down so as to have it perfectly bare, fi>he left forefinger-nail should be pressed into it, immediately on the knife being removed, mind there retained. Using the nail as a guide, the beak of the gorget (Cline’s, iff with the single-cutting edge) is entered upon it into the groove, and the finder Bikithdrawn. The Surgeon then moves the beak of the gorget twice or thrice °up relmd down in the groove of the staff, to assure himself that the beak is free, and not jgiii tangled with any cellular tissue, by which, in his further proceeding, it might ijvie jerked out of the groove. The body of the gorget should be held horizontal, gilnd its cutting edge inclined a little downwards, and outwards. The operator now, til nth his left hand, takes the handle of the staff from the assistant, and brings it 1} town till it form an obtuse angle with the perinceum—in short, till the staff, if it i? fere straight throughout and thrust onwards, would pierce through the umbilicus, its direction corresponding to the axis of the pelvis, which Green considers a most im- i-'ortaut part of the operation, as it ensures the proper course of the gorget. At the same ;dtime that the handle of the staff is sunk, the gorget is pushed very gently forward, ti-ind without any violent pressure, cutting its way through, and dividing the prostate rfipterally, it enters the bladder. The great point to be remembered is, the de- gression of the handle of the staff, so that that part of its groove, on which the h> ieak of the gorget rests, face downwards towards the sacrum, and consequently fj ifhen the gorget is slightly pressed forward it meets no obstruction, and runs gently jin. If, however, the staff-handle be not depressed, the beak of the gorget drives 7 Hirectly against the staff, and cannot move forward, the staff-groove standing up like a Sj^all against it, and the opposition is the greater the more force is used, till the operator 11 nwittingly alters the position both of staff and gorget, depressing the handle of the /TSinner, and raising that of the latter, so that its point dips, finds less resistance in the cow oblique position of the groove of the staff, and then is pushed on into the bladder [ 1116 operator have good luck, or slips out of it, and passes between the bladder and return, or between the bladder and pubes, which may be expected, if he use much repree and have little discretion. 1 have seen also, in more than one or two in- jisxnces, when the staff-handle has been little or insufficiently depressed, so much ■a tree used, without getting the gorget to move on, that the staff was bent, above its a ,arve, and could only be withdrawn with difficulty.—J. F. S.J ' 2086. All the cutting gorgets have this objection, namely, that in flashing forward their beak in the groove of the staff, they often •/merely push forward the neck of the bladder, and do not cut through « ■; they require much greater force than any other instrument; the mer wound has not the same parallel direction as the outer; on ac- |»unt of the lateral direction of the inner cut, the pudic artery is most i'a e to injury; and if to avoid this, a more descending direction be •ven to the instrument, there is no protection against wounding the Jfe J^T4uction of ,I,e forceps upon *1,e ®orget is ^ 3 t0 the cutting gorget are entirely groundless. No more force is jie prostate wffh^bTf -f8 -than f°r dlvidinS the neck of the bladder and . nnlovotlff o!th th knit' The lnstnlment neither requires force, nor is force Lne the ff??t kn0W how 10 use it; and> therefore, whatever mischief is adder of the Sur8eon> and not of the instrument. In passing into the cannot pushit^teforTIf CUt tk,r0Ugh -lts nec.k’ and also the prostate gland. I ip from f. 1 • fore ?*’ ®o !ong as it remains in the groove of the staff: but if it ,,,onsh r,,ofu? !he A «■»»*»A?“i Between the bladder an?! * , ?£’ he, -beak of *he instrument more readily slips ■ -"not happeo extnt fmr'e dnv?S °n the neck of the bladder. But this ' >rget on wl; l -Pt 1 carelessness, without force being employed to drive the A!^dw?f,A\„”rr;jTire.d ■? *"? H(o) Tkxtoh c i- ® W1 n0t enter without violence, the Surgeon may feel ■' 1 Uthotomie, p! 22? *W5 r zburff* OU A,N *c *1 ^m n ^ f ns der Bla?cnstcin<!, nach gemachter Operation VOL IT urzourg, Iblb—Zano, Operationen, vol. iii. pt. ii. p. 177. 2(1594 CUTTING FOR THE STONE; pretty well assured, in nineteen cases out of twenty, that he is inis using the ii strument, and that he will get into mischief. The difficulty in introducing tb gorget, and the force occasionally seen expended on it, depends, as has been met tioned, on the operator forgetting to sink the handle of the staff, so as to plac its groove in the line which the gorget has to travel; and, consequently, he ran; the beak of the gorget against the staff, which he continues to hold nearly u; right, so that till he accidentally alter the position of the staff,. or, by dint c force, the beak of the gorget slips down the curve of the staff, it is impossible ft the gorget to pass into the bladder, though easy enough for it to slip from th staff, and get between the bladder and rectum. The want of parallelism of the internal with the external wound is really of c consequence, even admitting that it be greater than in division of the neck of tb i bladder, and of the prostate, with the knife, of which I cannot allow it is. The division, or rather wounding, of the pudic artery, by the introduction f the gorget, might be matter of more serious objection against the employment c that instrument, were it as frequent as Chelius and others imagine; but fror my own observations of the practice of others, as well as my own, I believe very much less frequent than generally supposed ; and the free bleeding whic occurs sometimes in the operation, either with the gorget or knife, for I have see, it as great with the use of one as of the other instrument, depends, I behev. usually on division or wounding the artery of the bulb, just after it comes o from the pudic artery, and not from injuring the pudic artery itself. The use ( the gorget, as a ready channel for the introduction of the forceps, is, as Lheliu observes, of but little importance.—J. F. S.] 2087. Le Cat’s method, which, in recent times, has been especiall modified and employed by Pajola, is characterized by the prostat. gland being in part only divided, and the enlargement of the wouir being effected by a peculiar dilator. ... According to Pajola, the patient should be laid with his trunk t little obliquely; the staff, when introduced, is to be held by an at sistant, with its handle so inclined towards the right groin, that it curved part should rest between the left side of the raphe and the at cendiim branch of the left haunch-bone. The external cut is made, a regards its size and direction, in correspondence to the prescribe! directions, {par. 2078,) with the urethrotome, which is held like writing-pen, with its groove facing towards the patient’s left side When& the membranous part of the urethra is laid bare, the Mi of the left forefinger is passed into the groove of the staff, th bulb pressed aside, the urethrotome thrust into the membranous pa* close behind the bulb, and carried carefully along the groove of th staff, so as to divide the membranous part to the extent of from fag to five lines. The operator now keeps the point of the urethro L against the staff, brings its handle horizontal, and takes hold ot i with his left hand in such way that the thumb is on the upper edge an<. the fore, middle, and ring fingers are upon the under edge ° handle. The operator now grasps the cystotome with his right n | and placing his middle finger in its ring, his third and fourth tinge on the under, his thumb on the upper surface of its handle, ana forefinger on the sheath of its blade, enters its beak into the gr°° of the urethrotome, and upon it into that of the staff, and then ' awav the urethrotome. When the operator ascertains by the * tion which the contact and rubbing together of the two nie bodies affords, that the beak of the cystotome is actually m t g of the staff, otherwise the cystotome must be withdrawn, t»e branous part at once opened and the ,j"st™n’e]'jt JmSk lie grasps, with his own left hand, the handle of the staff, toD jLATERAL OPERATION WITH COME’S LITIIOTOME. 595 | -ith his assistant’s liand, carries it in a direction corresponding to the [, liite line, raises it beneath the arch of the pubes, so that it forms a tij ght angle with the trunk, and pushes the cystotome, the handle of which he sinks a little, along the groove of the staff, up to its blunt ic ctreniity. After the cystotome is withdrawn, the operator carries the iipint of his left forefinger upon the staff and into the opening in the c1 adder; the staff is then withdrawn, and a blunt gorget, previously 1 led, with its concavity upwards, is introduced upon the sensible sur- face of the left forefinger, which serves as a guide. The dilator, with front blades closed, is now introduced upon the gorget, and after iwe withdrawal of the gorget, the wound in the prostate gland is madually enlarged, by bringing together the hind branches of the idator to such extent as the size of the stone seems to require. ■Tor the further description of this operation, the following writers are referred to:— /*OLe Cat, above cited. ;Kast, (preside C. Siebold,) Historia Lithotomise in eodem homine bis facta;, jurceburg, 1778. _ - iIIartenkeil, above cited. ^fjLoDER, Programma Lithotomise Le Catiantf. emendatae Descriptio. Jenae, 1785. -De C?ICUliTTVf-icSE sectione laterali inprimis Le Catiana ; in ri^uscula Chirurgica, vol. i. Hafmse, 1799. otRdbtokffer, F. X, Abhandlung liber die Operation des Blasensteines, nach j aaola s Methode. Leipzig, 1808; with five plates. I 2088. Tins operation has partly the same objection as the cutting gorget ft it the parts are easily pushed before it, and not always cut through to 3 required extent; and that the enlargement of the insufficient cut with 3 dilator not ^infrequently causes great bruising, and its consequent nptoms especially a permanent weakness of the neck of the bladder 7?, ExPenments uPon the dead body have satisfied me that the ot the dilator does not effect a simple enlargement, but if the extension le great, an increase of the wound by tearing. In other respects this lotion is more complicated than all the other modes; it is, however I ployed with considerable success. ’ IS, The ctut int0 thf Neck of the Bladder and the prostate, with a WFticular instrument. ■ft-nm 7. ., . , . ^rument from within outwards. To this belongs Frere 11mS ™fhod Wlth the concealed lithotome (lithotome cache.) S ■ YY HPn fhp mif/at’ U i _ i . i , ) K- r TlCUt l,as bce" i. opened l ofTe'tf 'K'™ “TTn '“T the P'oove of theV“pT"fte [jl the left forefinger, which has been previously introduced into it | )er°fu ,W1? i1HS Je? hand 8Tasps the handle °f the staff, raises it l h thetv, k ? °f thf reqmred cut The lithotome is now held | h, and wW st Se handfe? ^ °? itS,lo"k’ is raised «nder the pubic b teed (lowi v tl tb , 87asPed, the right hand, and the lever prawn out horVontallvS-f°U7 * ?nSers uP°n the handle, the blade ind. and lnchned towards the lower angle of the 2 q 2596 CUTTING FOR THE STONE; he following writers may be referred to on this operation Journal des S^avans, 1748, Juin. Frere Come, Recueil des pieces impartiales sur l’Operation de la Taille faite par Lithotome cache. Paris, 1735. ^ _ K -, Additions h la suite de Recueil de toutes les pieces qm ont ete public au suiet du Lithotome cache. Paris. De Preval, Ergo scalpello vagina recondito cystotome lateralis perfectior. Par 1754. Cambron, Lettre sur la Lithotome, pour prouver la superiority du Lithotome cacl parjg | y 60. Nahuys," Parallele de la Taille laterale de M. Le Cat avec celle du Lithotoc cache'. Amsterd., 1766. ., . Chastanet, Lettres sur la Lithotomie, pour prouver la supenonte du LithotOD cache' pour l’Ope'ration de la Taille sur tous les autres instrumens. Paris, 1768. Sabatier Remarques sur l’Ope'ration de la Taille avec le Lithotome cach<?, et sur Jueement que l’Acade'mie de Chirurgie a porte' de cette ope'ratiou, dans le troisiei Volume de ses Me'moires ; in Mem. de lTnstitut National de France, vol. u. p. 341. 2090. The disadvantages objected to the concealed lithotome ar wounding the inner wall of the bladder when its blade is gauged at tl higher numbers ; the great danger of wounding the rectum or the pud artery if its blade be not immediately directed towards the ischial tub rosity ; and the difficulty of finding the aperture in the bladder, whentl staff has been withdrawn before the cut is made (a). It has been attempt! to do away with many of these objections, by shortening and blunting tl blade, so that after the lithotome has been introduced into the bladder tl staff should not be withdrawn, but that, without its point leaving the sta the lithotome might be drawn out of the bladder, or that the instrume should be furnished with a small gorget, or with a sheath to its blade (l It must be remembered, however, that with very unruly patients this i strument can be used more safely than any other, and is always to » considered as one of the most preferable. Boyer (e\ who prefers Frere Come’s lithotome to any other, uses it in the followb way •—In adults and elderly persons he never gauges the instrument highar th No 11 however large the stone may be, and in general only up to No. 9. Ht FeI‘ enlarging this cut iflit be too small. In drawing out the instrument, instead rf>e* the shaft up against the pubic arch, he presses its concave right pubic bone, so that the blade is inclined almost directly mitoanb..Wheni» satisfied by the length of that part of the instrument which has tenramA the cessation of resistance that the prostate and the neck of the bladder are < through, he allows the blade to return into its sheath, and withdraws the in. closed, by which wounding the rectum and the pudic artery are avoid*!. The tn# verse direction of the inner wound is made correspondent with the outer b) j duction of the finger, and does not prevent the entrance of the forceps. 2091. In the same way, as Chaussier and Beclard (par. 2062) h* recommended cutting into the prostate and neck of the bladder on sides, as being the more correct interpretation of Celsus s text, Dufuytren perform successfully and fully lay down this mode of ope i ing, the bilateral section, as it is called, in the year 1824. The patient is placed and fastened in the usual way, and the sta by an assistant vertically and corresponding to the raphe. The ope . with a straight-pointed bistoury makes, at a distance of six °J\s<r'e" j from the rectum, a transverse cut, the slight curve of which (a) Memoircs de l’Acadcmie de Chirurgie, vol. ili. P- 628.—Scarpa, Dupuythen, Textor, Beck, R., Ueber den Seitenschnitt mit dem STBOMEYER’schen doppeltgedeckten Stein®6*1 p.-i- .. t? a. i Carls, u. Freib., 1844. . , TOi. (c) Traite des Maladies Chirurgicales, ™ p. 391.THE BILATERAL SECTION. 597 tfboncavity downwards, and its middle over the raphe. The membranous id jart being laid bare, is opened, and the point of the bistoury introduced Bjupon the nail of the left forefinger into the groove of the staff, and carried some way along it. A peculiar lithotome is then entered into ip his opening, and pushed along the groove of the staff into the bladder, a The neck of the bladder is divided, in withdrawing this instrument, by ■knives which project on both sides, in the direction of the external b> vound. A gorget is then introduced, and upon it the forceps. K Dupuytren’s lithotome is similar to that proposed by Fleurant for operating on 0 vomen for the stone; the two blades may he separated to a distance of eighteen ines. Charrikre’s improvement consists in the blades projecting obliquely down- , yards. La Serre’s alteration which is inefficient, consists in their acting first in the ■horizontal, and then in an oblique direction. Asteey Cooper cut through the neck of (. he bladder on both sides with a double-edged gorget. ■>( Upon this subject the following works may he consulted:— rtji Olliyier, above cited, p. 237. Archives Generates de Medecine, vol. v. p. 159. 1824. i. Repertoire Generale d’Anatomie et de Physiologie Pathologiques, vol. i. p. 240. my Legons Orales de Clinique Chirurgicale, vol. ii. p. 381. i: Dupuytren, Sur une Maniere Nouvelle de pratiquer l’Operation de la Pierre; ter- m aine et publ. par Sanson et Begin. Paris, 1836. 2092. Beclard altered his mode of performing the sectiu bilateralis J >rotn that which he first advised, and proceeded in the following manner: E saving the staff, which had been first introduced, alone, so as not to feilisturb the position of the parts, he made a cut through the coverings, as o.in the lateral operation, with a knife similar to that of Dubois ; then ‘^opened the membranous part upon the left side and behind the bulb, and •passed the knife nearly transversely, with its edge directed to the left, ■d-i nto the bladder, and enlarged the opening in drawing back the knife. At :x;his point of the operation, he raised his hand, and gave the blade of the rp istoury a direction parallel to the axis of the prostate, in order to avoid nrqjuring the seminal vesicles and the base of the bladder with the point. f the stone could not be drawn out through this opening, he enlarged it I nth the button-ended bistoury ; and if this did not answer, he made a foiecond cut transversely to the right side into the neck of the bladder and 0 ody of the prostate. T NNf ^ iP Proceeded in the same way, except that he directed the first cut into the * f,ck of the bladder more obliquely downwards, as in the common lateral operation. >: he external tegument need not be cut into in the second transverse cut, as it is capable >* f great extension. ■f fh ^ hatl already proceeded in a similar way; after cutting into the neck I the bladder, he passed his forefinger into the neck and upon it a small bistoury, and rum made upon the right side a cut similar to that on the left. ? ’ ^ASSIS (c) has proposed cutting into the neck of the bladder in four direc- .. Wi . i1, C01-0^1 nat has recommended an instrument, (lithotome quadruple,) in cn two blades project upwards and outwards, and two downwards and outwards (d). 1 20^3' The advantage of the bilateral section is, that it affords a cut of li/er^4^r°e ex^en^ ^0r ^ie removal of a large stone; without danger of H-i ounc mg the pudic artery; and the rectum may be avoided, notwith- ■<; n mg the large size of the cut. In regard to Dupuytren’s semicir- ar external cut, it may be remarked, that the transverse artery indeed 9ur le® dillercntes Mfe- (c) Taillo qundrilaterale. These. Paris, 1828. laris, 182a. (d) Oi.i.ivixu, above cited, p.238.—Arcliivcs >'■ action de la Piene^ 17566S d° fa'r°1Ex* generales de Medecine, vol. viii. p. 139,309, 310.598 CUTTING FOR THE STONE ; may be avoided; but that this cut is difficult for a less experienced opera 1 tor, and-a slight variation from the prescribed mode causes that vessel t be wounded. The bulb is also easily wounded, especially in old persont « in whom it is large, and juts back so much that it is not easily presses® down ; and if the knife be sunk deeper to avoid it, there is danger t 1 wounding the rectum. Both, however, may, according to Senn, be moi : certainly avoided, if the membranous part be divided, not lengthways!® but transversely. Beclard thought it a particular advantage of tin | operation, that the edges of the wound lie close together, and that the cur follows more quickly (a). Soujbekbielle (b) considers that the doubt d cut should be so large, that the extraction of the stone should entirely a separate the middle from the other parts of the prostate. 2094. One of the most important circumstances, which has the greater I influence in deciding on the several modes of performing the latera operation for the stone, is the variety of opinions as to the room whici the cut into the prostate and neck of the bladder can give, and which ca. be given with safety. Many make the cut so large that the stone can b 1 withdrawn without stretching and bruising the parts ; they divide, wher the size of the stone needs it, the whole prostate, and continue the cu i even into the body of the bladder; considering a clean cut less disadvam tageous than the tearing and bruising by simple dilatation. Others feaa large cuts, as if the whole prostate be divided into the bladder, infiltnH tion of urine, abscesses and gangrenous destruction of the cellular tissue between the bladder and rectum, weakness of the neck of the bladder, slow cure, and fistula, may ensue. ! It is most advisable to cut sufficiently deep into the prostate and necl of the bladder, without continuing the cut into the body of the bladder- and to enlarge the opening in a gentle and gradual manner with the finger or the forceps. This enlargement may be carried to such extent tbai very large stones may be withdrawn, and by this mode of enlarging tbt^ wound the objections do not apply which for the most part result fron the great apparatus, as if the prostate and neck of the bladder be pro perly cut into, the enlargement is made in a very different way. •»» Dubois’ knife, with which I cut into the prostate and neck of the bladdert as I introduce it, but especially in drawing it out, I give the preferenct above all the other modes of practice. If the cut do not correspom with the size of the stone, I enlarge it with the button-ended straig . bistoury, which cuts only to the extent of an inch. , , [Scarpa, as already noticed, (p. 583,) has well pointed out the extent to whic prostate should be divided, and the capability of doing this, to a certain and demm< extent, is the great advantage of the cutting gorget, which can only divide the prosw equal to its own breadth. If the prostate be divided with the knife, the extent or ^ division must depend entirely upon the operator, and is liable to vary considered y.— J. F. S.] Upon the matter just considered the following works may be also consulted: Klein, Chirurgische Bemerkungen, p. 1. Stuttgart, 1801. . Praktische Ansichten der bedeutendsten chirurg. Operationen; part ii. .Juttgaro l 181G ;ie. Martineau , in Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. xi. p. 402. 1820. Cooper, Samuel, Dictionary of Practical Surgery,—Art. Lithotomy, p. S89. Dupuytren, above cited, p. 17. (n't Oi.i.ivier, above cited, p. 244.—Hovkr- CoYlard ; in Repertoire generate d Anatonue et de Fhysiologie, vol. i. p. 507. (i) Journal de Medecine, vol. evii. P- 1829.THE EXTRACTION. 599 rlft Scarpa ; in OllivIeb, p. 1-40. i Chelius, Ueber den Steinschnitt; in Heidelb. klinisch. Ann., vol. vi. part. iv. 2095. The extraction of the Stone is in general accompanied with great Hilifficulty, and requires the more careful and skilful management, as upon « he proper performance of this part of the operation depends principally r)iAs successful or unfavourable result. The left forefinger, and in very q tout persons, a blunt gorget upon it, is passed into the opening of the neck b f the bladder, and upon it the forceps (a), previously oiled, are carried »• n a rather oblique direction from below upwards into the bladder. The stj orceps are then gently turned about in various directions to find the < tone, and when it is found, the handle-rings of the forceps are to be aken hold of with both hands, widely opened, and the forceps pushed ~m arther into the bladder, or turned half round with a sweep, so as to bring he stone between their blades and to grasp it. When the separation of IB she handles shows that the stone is seized, the thumb and middle finger of Hhe right hand are put into the rings of the forceps, or the instrument is : ‘rasped with the whole hand, but in either case the forefinger is kept be- t ' ween its handles, partly to prevent breaking the stone, and partly to pre- iH ent the walls of the bladder catching in drawing out the forceps, which f re to be turned round on their axis, so as to ascertain that the bladder Spas not been laid hold of. The surfaces of the blades of the forceps are ibhen directed towards the edges of the wound, the left hand placed on the ,)int, and with a continued gradually increasing pull, accompanied at the ? ime time with waggling movements obliquely from above downwards, *o'be forceps, together with the stone, are drawn out. If during the ex- io faction the edge of the wound be stretched very tightly over the stone, it ■ f lust be held back with the finger of the left hand. 'tf; 2096. The obstacles which occur in grasping and drawing out the stone b epend on its position and size, on the contraction of the wound of the t ladder, on the stone being encysted or adherent, and on its breaking to .nieces. ° T: 2097. If the stone lie low, it must be attempted by the forefinger of l ie left hand, passed up the rectum, to carry it towards the forceps, or a !■ air of curved forceps may be used. If the stone be very high, or in the h des of the bladder, it must be tried to change its position with the finger, ffi) thrust it down by pressure on the lower part of the belly, or curved ® irceps must be introduced ; and in using the latter, their handles must * Iways be inclined downwards. ; 2098. If the stone be grasped in an unfavourable diameter, or too near *. ie joint of the forceps, which is shown by the very great separation of < ieir handles, or if the stone lie with its long diameter transversely within * ie blades, which is discovered by the slight separation of the handles, I ™ tae Unities in attempting the extraction, the forceps must be , a little, and with the finger, or with a bouton (b), it must be l 2 ,fve, U a be‘ter, position ; or it must be dropped into the l ,0 , °Iti baSe, °fu r bladder’ and seized afresh* If the wound be fcj™’ thouS\ the diameter of the stone be favourable, it must be S3?’38 du*ectedj( par. 2094,) to such extent as to render the ex- 'h P°S9lb!e’ without much bruising and injury. If the stone be On Onh, S1Ze that Wlth even the Sreatest possible enlargement of the Stone-PorccpT seeschamm Twa k-ln‘,ls $ A" in8trument like the stilette of a catheter, | 1. ill. p. 200. ueschamps, above cited th a ball at its extremity.600 CUTTING FOR THE STONE; wound it cannot be removed, nothing remains but either to break it - . pieces with Earle’s (a) stone-breakers; or if the stone be not too hari the outer layers may be broken with a pair of common stone-forceps or, what is still better, IIeurteloup’s percuteur may be used ; < the bladder may be cut into above the pubes, which proceeding always most proper when the stone is very hard. Under these circun stances, also, the extraction of the stone has been recommended 1, be made subsequently, (Steinschnitt in zwei Zeitraiimen, Germ.; Tail en deux terns, Fr.,) when suppuration has commenced in the wounc the extraction, however, is never thereby rendered easier, and th: practice is in general to be rejected. Small stones may also lie t between the blades of the forceps, that the handles are not sept, rated, and the operator thinks he has not grasped the stone; i withdrawing and accidentally turning of the forceps, such stone ma. remain concealed within them, without the operator being aware < it, as I myself have observed. The gush of urine, after cutting ini: the neck of the bladder, may also throw out a little stone. Sma stones can often be well seized with a pair of dressing-forceps, or wit flat-bladed stone-forceps. Campana (b) considers the extraction of the stone more easy and less injurious, if be grasped by its largest diameter. , [If after the entrance of the gorget into the bladder, the urine do not immediate.- flow out, as it usually does, though less frequently when the internal wound is mac with the knife only, it does gush forth suddenly as soon as the forceps are introduce “ not impelled,” says Brodie, “ by muscular exertion, but by its own gravity and tr pressure of the viscera. Under these circumstances, when you introduce your tinge into the bladder, you find the muscular tunic relaxed, and the mucous membrai hanging in folds; and in consequence they are not likely to be ruptured. In otht instances, the patient voids his urine immediately before the operation, or perhaps durir the introduction of the staff. Here, the urine having been made to flow by the patient own efforts, the muscular tunic is contracted ; it offers a considerable resistance to tt opening of the forceps, and is liable to be ruptured, if the blades are opened rudely ar incautiously.” (pp. 317, 18.) A case of this kind Brodie mentions, in which “tt bladder (as he supposed) was in a contracted state, and the Surgeon, m opemng tt forceps, observed a resistance, which suddenly gave way, as if a ligature had bee broken.” * * * On the third morning after the operation, he died, and on ejqmg tion, it was “ found that the mucous membrane and muscular tunic of the blad« had been ruptured to the extent of three quarters of an inch.” (p. 304.) I ,[ave> recently, in operating on a child of nineteen months, been inconvenienced by the vio contraction of the bladder which Brodie mentions, and to a degree of which I baa n notion. I had operated with the cutting gorget, and introduced the forceps w ith per h a little more difficulty thau usual, and immediately found the stone; but on attempts* to open their blades, I found it impossible without using force, which was not justtnaflHj I passed the blades farther in, drew them back, gave them a quarter turn, each um« endeavouring to open them, but in vain; they were as firmly closed as if they had bee* tied together, and a momentary thought passed through my mind, that they might ba - escaped from the gorget, and slipped between the bladder and rectum; however, *een the stone distinctly, again and again, I was convinced that could not be the case, an- that the blades were fairly in the bladder. I continued making gentle attempts toop^ them, and full five minutes elapsed before they would move at all; they then bCgM slowly to open, and at last sufficiently to allow the stone to get between them, w was extracted, though not before it had slipped once or twice, as I could on*} *.. catch hold of the edge, the principal part of the stone seeming to have been lodgea a fold of the bladder, from which 1 could not disengage it Now, had 1 v>oit attempted to open the forceps in this case, I should undoubtedly have torn the b ' as in that mentioned by Brodie; but using only gentle efforts, the bladdery slowly, and the operation was safely completed.—J. F. S.] (а) Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. xi. p. 69. pi. iii. 18. (б) von Gbaefe und von Waltheb’s Journal, vol. v. p. 171.601 THE EXTRACTION. 4, 2099. When the stone is enclosed by a diseased contraction of the * ladder, attempts must be made to free it by introducing the finger, or a it air of stone-forceps, the blades of which must be opened in different direc- I ons before the stone, so as to separate the walls of the bladder. For jf.iis purpose, forceps with several arms, capable of being applied singly ;xiive been proposed (a). If the stone cannot in this way be grasped, its iExtraction must be given up, and the spasm attempted to be removed with itispasmodic remedies, fomentations, and the like. Git: 2100. If the stone be encysted, the operator carries his forefinger to $ue stone, and endeavours, if the encystment be not considerable, to set it [ ee. If this be not possible, on account of the opening of the cyst being na ery small, a narrow blunt-pointed bistoury, or a bistoury concealed in a Kieath and a little curved, must be passed in upon the left forefinger, and I n its passage attempts must be made to lay open the cyst to such extent -p;s may be necessary for setting the stone free, which if its position allow, toay at the same time be raised by the introduction of an assistant’s finger Jtilito the rectum. » Stones which lodge in the ureter and project into the bladder must be _ osened with the finger, carefully seized with the forceps, and attempted In be freed by gentle pulling; as every violent pull is extremely painful it the patient, and drawing the stone towards the neck of the bladder oublesome, however large the wound may be. If the stone lie in a hollow, formed by the protrusion of the lining embrane between the fibres of the bladder, it must be attempted to nlarge the opening of communication by introducing a pair of small atprceps, and then to draw out the stone. The difficulty in doing this Bill [depend upon the nearness or distance of the stone from the wound, w the stone be covered with the inner coat of the bladder, in which Jkse it has been thrust between the membranes at the orifice of the ureter, f othing can be done except proceeding as with a partially encysted stone, r it may be grasped with the forceps, and drawn out with careful move- ments. i' When a stone is covered with fungosities, the finger is to be carried «‘.i3tween it and the wall of the bladder, their connexions separated, and the 1 'one pulled out by moving it in different directions, and if the connexions very firm, it must be attempted to loosen the remaining part by frequent abjections, and by shaking the patient, and afterwards to extract the -one (&). t>. 2101. With a brittle and easily-breaking stone, it must be endeavoured, <7 the introduction of the forefinger between the handles of the forceps' prevent them being too firmly closed, to avoid breaking the stone; tnd for this purpose various apparatus, as forceps with a bag to catch the Vone, and so on, were formerly proposed. When, however, the stone has een broken, the larger pieces must be removed with the forceps, the |inaller with a scoop, and the little pieces by repeated injections, with w.a1ter fro™ a clyster-syringe, the pipe of which is to be passed into i ie bJadder 0n the forefinger. Klein (c) advises that, in this case, as also l en numerous little stones have been removed, the bladder should always fi examined with the sound some days after, for the purpose of ascertain- S|i: (n) r*F.BCIIAMpg vi- flg. 3, 9. .above cited, vol. ii. pi. i. fig. 14, S Klein ; in Loder’s Journal,vol. iv. p. 564. Above cited, p. 380.CUTTING FOR THE STONE; (4) Royer, above cited, p. 435. part iv. fi')2 ing that nothing remains behind. If the stone break when it lias bol brought into the outer wound, it must be pressed out by the left fo finger in the rectum. 2102. When the operation is finished the pcrinccum must be clean-i the patient freed from the ligatures, and several turns of a bandage pass round above and below the knees, to keep the thighs together. He m be kept in bed, lying on one or other side, or on his back, with the thig. drawn up and the knees supported. A moist sponge is applied to t wound, and oiled silk or folded cloths laid to prevent the fouling of 1 bed by the urine which flows out. 2103. The accidents, besides those already mentioned, in the extracti of the stone which may occur during the operation and require partieuli treatment are, bleeding, injury or prolapse of the rectum, convulsions, a fainting. 2104. Bleeding may happen from the superficial perinseal artery or branches, from the transverse perinseal arteiy, from the inferior or fro' the internal hsemorrhoidal artery, from the internal pudic artery, fro wounding the bulb of the penis, and from the posterior or inferior vesici arteries. The branches of the superficial perinaeal artery can only produce ; alarming bleeding in those cases where it is unnaturally large. Tr transverse perinaeal artery lies so near the ramus ischii that it canni easily be wounded, if the cut be made at the proper height {par. 2078' The inferior hsemorrhoidal artery is sometimes injured when it is farthr forwards than usual, or the cut is continued beyond the line from tfc anus to the ischial tuberosity. The branches of the internal haemorrhoids artery spreading between the neck of the bladder and the rectum ma, bleed. The internal pudic is wounded when the cut is made too far t the side. The vesical arteries may be wounded if the prostate be core.' pletely cut through, and the body of the bladder itself cut into. The bleeding from the superficial vessels of the perinceum may b stanched by tying them; but that from the deeper vessels requires col applications, and if these be insufficient, compression must be made with a silver or elastic tube, open on both sides, and with a linen bag attached tt its front part (canule a chemise.) The front end having been pushed inti the bladder, lint is passed between the tube and the linen bag, till suffl cient pressure is made on every part of the wound, and the other end o the tube is fastened externally with a T bandage. Erard (1), Dupcy tuen (2), and von Graefe (3), have recommended particular compres- sors for this purpose. The injury of the internal pudic artery may cause so considerable bleeding that the extraction of the stone must be deferred ; pressure, in the way prescribed, will, however, always be successful in stanching the bleeding. It has been also advised to keep up pressure with the finger by relays of assistants, or to tie the artery by means of a particular kind of needle (a), or with Deschamp’s (h) artery-needle. According to my own experience, however, the continued and efficient application of cold is the best mode of stanching bleeding after cutting for the stone; I have succeeded with it when pressure had been used in vain (c). (n) Zano, Operationen, vol. iii. pl. ii. f. 5. (c) Heidelberg klinisch. Annalen, vol. n* IBLEEDING. 603 (1) Erard’s (a) compressor consists of a canula, at the vesical end of which are 0 wings, which jut against the inner wound, whilst a plate furnished with compresses ipressed against the perinamm with a screw. (2) Dufuytren’s (b) compressor has two branches, flat on their inner, convex on efr outer surface, and by their elasticity capable of separating from each other like fa e branches of common dissecting forceps. The branches are covered with leather f'. d agaric, the latter upon their convex surface. The instrument is to be passed, closed, :o the wound, the one branch put against the seat of the bleeding vessel, and then the anches allowed to open. If the bleeding stop, the instrument must be left there; t if otherwise, its position must be altered till the bleeding vessel is fully com- f essed. (3) vox Graefe’s (c) compressor resembles Weiss’s speculum, and consists of four ... hnches, the outer surface of which is covered with agaric: it is introduced, closed, j o the wound, and then the branches opened by a screw, so that a regular pressure is iide on every part of the wound. Shaw (d) has described a case of fatal bleeding, in operating for the stone, from unding the dorsal artery of the penis, which was given olf as a large branch from the pogastric artery in the prostate gland, and was continued under the pubic arch to penis. He has found this variety of the artery frequent, as has also Tiedemann (e) d Burns. , 5 [With regard to the loss of blood during the operation for the stone, Brodie says:—“ I >ve sometimes heard it observed, when a patient has lost a good deal of blood at the le of the operation, that he has lost no more than it will do him good to lose.” I have, wever, great doubts whether even in the case of the strongest man, the losing much iod adds to his chance of recovery, and it is evident, that in the case of a person of ginally weak constitution, or of one whose bodily powers are exhausted by his pre- ius sufferings, or who labours under disease of the kidneys, or other organs, the loss a considerable quantity of blood in the operation, is likely to make all the difference _ ween its success and failure.” (p. 335.) :As to the bleeding which occurs during the operation ; though free, it often ceases almost mediately after the patient is unbound, and the legs brought close together, and piires nothing further. But if it continue, and the patient become faint and pallid, it 11 be necessary to put a stop to it, otherwise the bleeding will be fatal. Brodie men- [ns the case of an elderly man with an enlarged prostate and deep perinceum, in whom he blood seemed to proceed from the neighbourhood of the neck of the bladder, and 'iat was remarkable, it was venous. He was foiled in all his attempts to restrain the morrhage, and the patient survived the operation only a few hours.” (p. 335.) I ve also known a case or two in which the bleeding was fatal; but such instances are ■e. When the bleeding continues after the operation, the wound must be gently opened 1 carefully examined. If any vessel can be seen, it should be taken up and tied; t if, as is more commonly the case, the transverse perinseal artery, or the artery the bulb, which I believe is far more frequently the bleeding vessel than the pudic, uch lies so protected by the ramus of the ischium, that it is scarcely possible to be iu- ■ed with the gorget, though it may be cut through with the knife, be cut off close to origin from the internal pudic, there is not room to apply a ligature around either of “ former; and with regard to the pudic, it is next to impossible to get at it at all with icedle. In such cases the best and safest proceeding is to pass the finger into the und and press the artery steadily against the ramus ischii till the bleeding cease, "s will require to be continued for several hours, and will need a relay of assistants' »ave seen two cases so treated successfully. The first case was under my care during ’ dressership, and the pressure was kept up uninterruptedly for fourteen hours, and n very link inconvenience to the patient. Attempts had been made both to tie the , and to cut it across, so that its ends might retract, as it was supposed to have been -3 n but !hey werc fiuite fruitless. In the other case, four or five hours n ,„r,n nt, ° P!u the patient in safety. Under these circumstances the surface of the | Kid generally sloughs, and the cure is retarded. b'°0d i,nStead of escaP'n6 by ^ outer wound, flows back into the r ’ 1 forrning a clot> prevents the passage of the urine either by the wound or |iM^HeTn0rr,,aeiC “lft Suite de la Taille> &c- fc) Journal^ von Graefe und von Walthkr, Run, p' 50 ° 'U^U!Vl' et P**hl. par Sanson et (d) London Med. and Physical Journal, vol. lv. , v m , P-2. 1820. («) Tabulns Arteriarum, pi. xxx. f. 2.CUTTING FOR THE STONE ; C04 by the urethra. I have known this happen in a few instances, without the bleeding 1 i ever being serious, or affecting the constitutional powers. If the patient do not 1 water in the course of a few hours after the operation, if he become restless, and if t i he fulness and uneasiness, or pain about the region of the bladder, it may be suspecn that blood has flowed into the bladder and clotted. It is then necessary to pass the fir gently through the wound into the bladder, and immediately this is done the u escapes and clots of blood with it. Should the bladder be found much distended y blood, it is well to wash it out gently with a syringe and warm water, which ma\ repeated once or twice, at intervals, according to circumstances. Plugging the wound, or other of the appliances mentioned by Chelics, I do not (hi at all proper. Secondary bleeding, in rare cases, follows at an interval of several days after a pat. has been cut for the stone. Brodie mentions one of a child in the second week, wl occurred under his own care, and though the boy was excessively lowered by • bleeding, he recovered. Also a case of Earle’s, which bled on the seventh or eig. day, and was stopped “ by introducing through the wound into the bladder, a t composed of a quantity of lint wrapped round an elastic gum catheter.” (p. 335.) r. first case of this kind which I witnessed was under my care during my dressershiji 1816, and had been operated on by the elder Travers. At the time of the operab much blood was lost, but it soon stanched. On the fourth day there was a sudd bleeding from the wound, to the amount of a pint and a half, which was stopped i pressure with the finger. On the following day the bleeding returned twice, and lost another pint of blood ; pressure was again made for five hours ; the bleeding l not repeated, and he recovered. A similar case occurred to Green, in 1841, in a l of thirteen. He became excessively faint very soon after the operation, and there y a little bleeding throughout the whole of the afternoon and day following, which y checked by the introduction of the finger, with pressure on the pudic artery for ab< i half an hour at a time. No farther bleeding occurred after the second till the nil day, when he became very restless, and there followed a very free bleeding, both frt * the wound and from the urethra; several clots were passed during the afternoon a evening, the finger having been introduced into the wound several times to favour th< ' escape. There was no recurrence of clots or bleeding after this day. He was kept 1< for some days, but no cold application used, and he recovered. The following fatal case of secondary bleeding happened to me in 1839 :—I had o] rated on a lad of thirteen years of age with the gorget, and in opening the staff had c I through either the transverse perinseal or the artery of the bulb, from which there w very free bleeding, but it soon ceased. On the evening of the second day he had pa in the region of the bladder and in the left groin, with tenderness and a good deal constitutional excitement. Leeches were applied to the belly. The symptoms co ) tinuing, calomel and opium were ordered on the following day, and he was so nmc improved on the fifth day that the mercurial was left off, there remaining only a litt tenderness in the left groin. His urine was now quite natural in colour. On the six- day, up to which time he had passed water plentifully both by the wound and by fij urethra, a thin slough about the size of the finger-nail came away, and he seemed doin very well; but about noon he had some pain at the lower part of the belly, which wi> immediately followed by a small motion, accompanied with much straining; and: the urine passed by the wound, a quantity, as much as would fill both hands, of ver offensive dark-coloured clotted blood escaped with it. He then became easy, but wf very faint and pallid, and it was necessary to give him some brandy. On the next da ; he was tolerably well, free from pain, and did not seem affected by the occurrence c yesterday. It was thought that the clot discharged might have depended on bleeding back into the bladder, and that this had been the cause of the irritation on the secon evening. On the seventh evening he had a good deal of straining, and passed by th wound about three table-spoonfuls of clotted blood in several lumps, with plenty o water. On the following morning he passed some bloody urine after straining, aw the napkin was slightly tinged with fresh florid blood; he was pallid, his pulse snia and quick, and the countenance rather anxious. The same evening, with much strain ing and a little motion, he passed a clot of four ounces, another an inch a half 1°"P and as thick as the finger, and a third and smaller clot, at three several t'n*eS-1.'jY I the morning of the ninth day, about half-past seven, with much straining and a lit ‘ motion, he passed about four ounces of clot with urine by the wound, and a little blow • I but no water, from the urethra. He then became very faint and squeamish, and >®wn continually, his countenance bloodless, and his pulse very weak and quick. 1 f® . fully examined the wound, and found it clean but pale, with a small layer of coaguxa605 SECONDARY BLEEDING. >od on the left side, which being disposed to stick, I thought best to leave alone. Be- eeu this time and three in the afternoon his bowels were sparingly moved five times, 1 he had passed plenty of water, but neither blood nor clots. On consultation with , colleague, Green, it was determined that the finger should be introduced into the idder, and any clot there detached and broken to pieces, and cleared out by injecting rm water, that the bowels should be quieted with opium, and his powers supported th egg and wine. This was accordingly done; I introduced my finger, but could not lertain anything unusual; no water, but a small portion of clot, not larger than half ixpence, followed its withdrawal. I then passed a catheter by the urethra, and with j finger in the wound, introduced it into the bladder, and injected by it some warm iter twice, the first passed by the wound slightly tinged, but the second was colourless; d tiie catheter when removed had no appearance of having been in any clot. He pt during the rest of the day, and neither had any more straining nor passed blood, jugh the napkin was a little stained. About eleven he threw up some beef tea imme- itely after taking it, as well also porter and brandy and water, which were given at ;ervals, and then dropped asleep. At four o’clock on the morning of the tenth day i bowels were freely moved without any clot, and soon after he took and kept down egg and some tea. In the course of the forenoon he passed plenty of water, accom- nied with a very offensive discharge, as if from a slough, but without any blood, and med better though very languid. As he was fully under the influence of the opium lirected its omission, thinking it might be perhaps the cause of the sickness. At noon was seized with shivering and seemed to be passing his water; the wound was iked to, a small clot found in it, which being removed, the urine escaped readily, d the shivering ceased. During the day he took some beef tea, porter, and egg, uch he enjoyed, and was constantly dozing. He had one motion with much strain- 5, but unaccompanied with bleeding or clots. On the fifteenth day he continued proving, except that the straining continued, for which an opium injection was given th advantage, and he has taken plenty of nourishment, to which first port wine was ded, but afterwards changed for sherry. The wound has become more florid and sup- rates freely, and there is a plentiful discharge of mucus from the bladder. Every- ng seemed doing well, and the quantity of mucus diminishing up to the twenty-first irning at five o’clock, when the napkin was found stained with bloody urine, and a tie bright red blood; he passed more bloody water and a little bright blood several aes. At nine o’clock a small clot passed, at ten another and soon after a motion, and ut two table-spoonfuls of clot, and he began to feel faint. Clots and water con- iued passing at intervals till eleven o’clock, and between that time and noon about six nces more. Soon after he passed another clot from the wound, and some bright ood by the urethra. He then became very pallid and cold and his pulse very small d quick. I passed a catheter and washed out the bladder; the first water was tinged th blood, but the second was clear; under these circumstances I thought it best to troduce the finger into the wound and compress the pudic artery, which being found icient was continued for twenty-one hours, a very small clot or two only passing aen the finger was withdrawn for relief. Brandy and beef tea and a few drops of dan uni were given during the day, as he had become very restless. On this evening ae twenty-second.) he was attacked with some bronchial irritation, which continued creasing, not having been relieved by the application of mustard poultice or blister, he was too weak for any more active means. He continued sinking, and died on e afternoon of the twenty fourth day, but had not had any recurrence of the bleeding he examination of this case was most unsatisfactory, as the parts which had been moved that they might be carefully examined, were cut to pieces in the neighbourhood the pudic artery, which was the most important of all. I was therefore unable to ertain whence the bleeding had originated; but I cannot help thinking it must have :en from the origin of the transverse perinceal artery, and that had I made pressure n i it at first, as I did at last, the boy might have been saved. This plan I should cer- * '(inly adopt under similar circumstances. At the time I did not recollect the occurrence 1 • after-bleeding in a case of this kind, and when the bleeding ceased for a time and the ft . again began to improve, I had hoped that the danger had passed away. The ; se is deeply interesting, and I believe not undeserving the full report I have given of s.] ^2105. Wounding the rectum may happen in various ways: First, at L iat step of the operation when the operator having made the outer cut, Wirnes the point of the knife into the groove of the staff for the purpose 'I opening the membranous part. If the handle of the knife be then too606 CUTTING FOR THE STONE; much raised, its point sinks into the rectum. This opening is in genen very small, a mere puncture, through which only the intestinal gas and small quantity of faecal matter escapes into the wound. Second, when j withdrawing Frere Come’s lithotome or the common bistoury, the woun first made, is still increased. The pain which accompanies cutting throug the neck of the bladder often excites the patient to strain violently, an. thereby force the intestines violently into the pelvis, so that the rectm lies as a fold before the prostate. In old persons there is somethin an enlargement of the rectum, so that the prostate is usually lodged i a hollow of the gut, which also surrounds the neck of the bladder o both sides. In such case the rectum must be almost necessarily woundev in the withdrawal of Frere Gome’s lithotome. If the gut receive th' prostate only on one side in such hollow, it is advisable to operate on th right, side, and with great care (a). Third, the rectum may be wounded i drawing out a large angular stone; if the wound be small, and near th m. sphincter ani, and the patient young, strong, and healthy, the openin' frequently closes of itself without symptoms. Sometimes a fistulou opening remains after the wound in the neck of the bladder, and the membranous part of the urethra has closed, and communicating with the gut like a; common rectal fistula, is to be treated in the same manner Occasionally, the external wound closes, and there still remains a commu. nication between the neck of the bladder and the rectum, which, however* is in general so contracted, that but little urine passes through the rectum* and only a small quantity of fsecal matter by the urethra. Desault anc Dlipuytren have in such cases divided the rectum from the wound wit! success. The common practice is to introduce an elastic catheter into the bladder. According to Kern (V), in a wound of the rectum correspond- ing to the body of the bladder, the buttocks should be raised, frequent injections of warm water, and drawing off the urine several times a day. with the catheter, should be practised. The bladder is placed higher in children than in adults; therefore, as the parts, art cut through from without inwards, or from within outwards, a direction must be given: to the instrument, corresponding to a line supposed to be drawn from the navel to the! haunch-bone, so as more certainly to avoid injuring the rectum (c.) . [Wounding the rectum in performing the operation for the stone is, as far as I know,- of rare occurrence. I have seen but two cases in the course of thirty-three years; one was done in introducing the gorget, and the other in making the second cut with the. knife before the gorget was introduced. The Surgeons under whose care they were, wisely left them alone, and treated them as if no accident had happened. A littlet. feculent matter passed by the wound in the perinecum for a few days, after which tael rectum scarred, and no farther inconvenience ensued. I have never seen any instanoew in which division of the sphincter ani was requisite, and I doubt whether in England* such ever occurs. Should I ever meet with a recent case of the kind, I should advise » leaving it to nature.—.1. F. S.] 2106. When the rectum is protruded by the patient straining during the operation, it must be pressed baek and retained by an assistant with a pad upon the right side. . , , j Convulsions and fainting require the operation to be quickly finisher, and if that be not possible, and the patient’s danger great, the extraction* of the stone must be put off. , 2107. The after-treatment in general consists of cooling and mi . - I remedies. The patient should take an opiate after the operation, and must (a) Dkscuamps, above cited, vol. iii. p. 8. (l>) Above cited, p. 239. (c) Dupuvtbkn, above cited, p. 28.607 AFTER-TREATMENT. reserve the most perfect rest of body and mind ; for drink he should take little almond milk, and for food only a little broth, for the first few days, he sponge on the wound should be frequently changed, and the neigh- __ mrim1' parts kept clean. In general the urine begins to flow partially |.- the°urethra the first day after the operation ; when the urine is mostly fended by the urethra, the wound should be covered with wadding, which to be fixed with a tightly drawn T bandage, and towards the end of the Starling the wound must be touched with caustic to promote its healing, he cure of the wound is often complete in three or four weeks; sorae- unes it occupies a month ; but in rare cases the wound closes by quick i lion in from nine to fourteen days (a). I have twice seen the wound >aled by agglutination on the fourth day (b). The continued application of cold by means of a large sponge dipped in very cold ,ater, is obviously the most efficient remedy to prevent bleeding and severe traumatic 0 action. 1 [The dextrous performance of the operation for the stone is not all that is necessary r the well-doing of the patient, and instances have occurred within the remembrance ' many, in which, though ably and quickly performed, and with as little suffering to e patient as possible, and every hope of a favourable result when they were removed om the operating-room, yet have they.terminated fatally. In hospital practice, I have doubt this has arisen from stone-patients having been, in most instances, placed in a ard with other patients, where sufficient quietude could not be preserved, and where e sister having only occasionally a single case, had no chance of obtaining sufficient •:perience in the conduct of a case, which mainly depends on her constant attendance id ability, almost as much, indeed, as upon the good performance of the operation, i consequence of so much being intrusted, of necessity, to the sister, and so little which ight attract attention being done, few students, on leaving the hospital, know more of x»stone-case than the performance of the operation and its result, unless any thing very iji' markable should occur during the course of the cure; and therefore, when settled in isjp/aetice. and called upon to operate for the stone, although they may perform the ‘liberation extremely well, yet they are at a loss to know in what way the after-treatment, e> oder common circumstances, should be conducted ; and are therefore unable to give directions, or to exert such control over the nurse as may assist to bring about a favour- able termination of the case. I am not aware that either in any Lectures on Surgery, '<■' other published works, that these seemingly trifling, though, in reality, very im- ; Jortant points in the after-treatment of stone-operations have been noticed, the attention *»ly haying been drawn to after-bleeding, peritonseal inflammation, and some other iiaore striking circumstances of such cases. B To fill up this serious gap in the after-treatment, I shall now relate the practice **ihich certainly for the last forty-six years, and I have little doubt for a much longer f 'riod, has been adopted at St. Thomas’s Hospital. jit When a patient is ascertained to have the stone, he is placed in a small ward, con- 'L‘ning only half-a-dozen beds, and which, during the first part of the after-treatment, ■ kept private and extremely quiet. Here he remains under the watchful eye of the tl iter, an experienced woman, to whom all the stone-cases are assigned, and who is ca- !< ‘hie of giving the Surgeon a full and sufficient account of the patient’s symptoms and tt fffenngs during his absence, and to note any little peculiarity about him, which a nurse ^accustomed to such cases would overlook. Great care is taken in first instructing r • ese women, who usually remain long in this ward; indeed, in thirty-six years the sister ‘Is been replaced only thrice since the death of the sister who had the ward when I r'8t entefed the profession, and who spent twenty years there: a sufficient proof of * * experience which such persons must acquire. 1 \ P?tient usual|y remains for ten days or a fortnight, to accustom him to the place ' s US aNcndants; and it is rarely requisite to pay more than ordinary attention to ■ iet and habits, if he be in good health, excepting his immediate complaint. If bis i;.| enngs be severe, an occasional hip-bath is used, which has a very soothing effect; hn e*trem?Jy .serviceable if the preparatory soundings increase, as they will , ally, his sufferings. I have rarely known it necessary to employ blood- Bt tnn°V0 c'tei'> P* 34,—Graefk in (6) Cmeuds, Ucber den Steinschnitt; in Ilei- p. 100. delb. klin. Annalen, vol. vi. part iv.CUTTING FOR THE STONE ; 608 letting or other depleting means, though such necessity may possibly occur, but ordinary cases they are unneedful and improper. An occasional clearing of the bow< ■ is, however, requisite; and if the patient have been accustomed to take gin and water, f promoting the action of the kidneys, a practice, with regard to ,young stone-patiei especially^ very prevalent, it will be well not to deprive him of it at once, or he w become fidgetty and uncomfortable, but to diminish it slowly, or even to continue i use. e. Under ordinary circumstances, a stone-patient should not be operated on, except 1 health be otherwise good. His sufferings from the disease itself will call for the pe formance of the operation. The state of the atmosphere should, as far as possible, considered. Temperate weather is the most favourable; for if it be very hot, t patient, in the weak state he usually is after the operation, suffers much from its d- pressing effects; and if it be very cold, he is liable to chill in the necessary freque uncovering to which he must be subjected to keep him dry during the after-treatmem On the day previous to the operation, a dose of castor oil should be given to clear tl bowels, and the diet restricted to rice pudding and milk, with plenty of barley wat or gruel, but the former of the two is most preferred. If the motions be hard ai lumpy, castor oil is added to an injection of gruel, which must he thrown up on tl morning of the operation, but if not, a simple injection of gruel is sufficient for the pu pose of completely relieving the lower bowel. . 1 Immediately after the operation, the patient is put to bed, with his legs straight ar close together, by which the surfaces of the wound are brought gently together, and ai slight disposition to bleeding checked. A napkin is passed round the pelvis, and brougi up between the legs, in the same way as healthy infants are commonly clouted. As is of great importance that the patient should be kept dry, the napkin is changed ever time any urine passes by the wound, and attention is paid to this through the who course of the treatment. On the evening of the operation day, or the following mon ing, if there be no bleeding, a piece of lint, folded on the end of the finger, is introduce, into the wound, and pressed up the depth of the perinceum; this is also replaced ever time the patient wets, and is continued till the wound heals ; its object is to ensure tl healing of the wound from the bottom, so as to prevent, as far as possible, the prodm: tion of any fistulous passage, which, under this treatment, is of very rare occurrence A handful or two of camomile flowers thrown into a basin, are sprinkled with spirits < wine, well mixed, so as to be equally moistened, and then put into a thin flannel hag and, having been well heated on a warming-pan, are applied over the belly as hot t the patient can bear, on the evening of the operation day, if there be no bleeding; an this is continued for a week or ten days. If, as sometimes happens, on the second da the wound be swollen, and the urine do not flow through it, no lint is introduced, out bread-and-water poultice applied, and, as the swelling subsides, the water'escapes by tb wound Such is the usual mode of proceeding, and neither is the bed guarded wit oiled silk, nor cold sponge, nor any other cold applied even though there were bleeding Rarely, except under particular circumstances, is any opiate given throughout the cur. The diet for the first two or three days should consist merely of rice or sago pudding biscuit, toast and tea, or arrow root and milk, with a plentiful supply of barley As the bowels had been freely relieved, it is unnecessary to give any medicine Deron the third day, and then only a little castor oil to act gently. But if there be paint the belly, or sickness, then the oil must be given earlier, and usually it subsides wue the bowels are moved. The urine at first passes frequently by the wound; but usuau about the third or fourth day also comes by the urethra; and as more continues op*-, by the latter, so does less escape by the former, and, in about a week or ten days, wound of the prostate having healed, the water passes only by the natural P^sage; m when this happens, the wound is dressed with wax and oil upon the lint introduced, before. In one instance I have known the water cease to pass from the wound mw twenty hours, but this is a rare occurrence. Generally, when the water does 1 first flow from the wound, the patient becomes irritable and uneasy, and it is we j introduce the finger, so as to break up any little clot which may stop up the w after which it usually escapes freely. Occasionally it may be necessary to resum ( gin and water, if the patient flag, which, however, the Surgeon himself will attui reviewing the state of the health. The patient should be kept in bed some da. - the water has ceased to flow by the wound, or, iu other words, till it is neari) to the surface. If a small sinus should continue open, it is well to twist up a piece of lint corresponding to its size, which should be dipped in a soiuUon of f ^ , of copper, and gently screwed up to its bottom; but, m most cases, a simple dre. g wax and oil is all that is needed. Commonly, in from three weeks to a month, tb ,C09 AFTER-TREATMENT. 2 it HLre is perfected; the diet having been gradually improved, and porter or wine added j&iccording to circumstances.—J. F. S.] 2108. When, after the operation, there is reason to fear active inflam- mation, it must be sought to prevent it by general and local blood-letting, wlind by the constant use of cold applications to the perinceum. If inflam- m nation arise, which commonly spreads over the peritonceum, it must be w net with corresponding antiphlogistic treatment (1). It most commonly jftlepends on the escape of urine into the cellular tissue of the pelvic cavity, I fivhfen the capsule of the prostate has been opened by a large cut, or by Bearing. Old persons, in whom the walls of the bladder are thickened, »r otherwise diseased, often die without any active inflammatory symptoms morning on. Opiate clysters and blisters to the belly are proper in these •|wises (a). In an erethetic state, which shows itself by a very great aplegree of general uneasiness, by great wearisomeness of the whole body, [ij|»y dull paiu in the loins, and depression of the powers, with small, con- tracted, faltering pulse, cooling and mild treatment must be first em- h'.iloyed, together with warm bathing and oily mixtures, and if any one organ ^especially affected, leeches must be at the same time applied to it (b). Spasmodic symptoms require antispasmodic remedies alone, or in con- noiexion with antiphlogistics, if there be accompanying inflammation. A Bjtainful discharge of urine by the urethra, or its complete obstruction may jlaie caused by spasm, by swelling of the wounded parts, or by a collection blj'f clotted blood. According to the variety of the cause, the remedies I tnust be either antispasmodic or antiphlogistic, and the urine must be Bmp tied through the wound by a female catheter passed into the bladder. | [(1) “ It is a prevailing opinion,” says Key, “ that stone-patients die of peritonitis drought on by the injury done to the bladder during the operation, a mistake which, rishough not leading to any serious error in the after-treatment, is so far attended with ageiischief inasmuch as it misleads the Surgeon from the true cause of the fatal event. I ip'iil not venture the assertion, that inflammation of the peritonceum is never a sequela of I thotomy, but that it is an extremely rare occurrence, and still more rarely the cause iS if death, examinations post mortem have fully convinced me. During the ten years I ave been at our hospitals, I have never yet seen an unsuccessful case, examined after 4'pe operation, in which inflammation of the peritonceum could be regarded as the cause fill death: and as invariably I have found that one circumstance was uniformly present, .viamely, suppurative inflammation of the reticular texture surrounding the bladder! * * * Inflammation spreading rapidly through these cells will quickly affect a surface much greater than that of the peritoiiceum, and I have witnessed,” says he, symptoms as acute, pain as severe, and the peculiar depression attending peritonitis, ■ 3 marked in the reticular inflammation as in the most acute and fatal case of inflam- 1 latl<m of the abdominal cavity. * * * In the inspection of those who die after lithotomy, it is not sufficient to look into the peritoneal cavity, to open the bladder, or i ' examine the state of the wound; the peritonceum lining the lower part of the ab'do- ? Ilna* muscles should be stripped off, and the source of evil will be then laid open. The * , “e" enter a quantity of brick-dust coloured pus in the cellular substance around u .ie bladder, and if considerable force has been used in the extraction of the stone, will ' *)• fin(* way towards the wound in the perinceum; the barrier between the t-Upose structure of the perinceum and the reticular texture of the pelvis being broken own, the suppurative inflammation spreads rapidly along the latter, and may be traced, I"1 some cases> between the peritonceum and abdominal muscles as high as the umbilicus, u ■'rmp.1 jiicnj jCaio jjaoi, says Brodie, “has con- J . rae In the opinion, that an incision of the prostate, extending into the loose cellular ivism *UTToundln.9 l,le nech °f the bladder, is replete with danger to the patient. Such a . cannVl purts is never necessary where the calculus is of moderate dimensions; but b not be avoided where it is of very large size ; and hence the extraction of stones of (n) Samuet, Cooper. First Vines of Surgery, p. 77.). Seventh Edition. 1840. VOL. Ii.610 CUTTING FOR THE STONE, THROUGH this description can never be accomplished without a great probability of the patie not surviving the operation. “The symptoms which arise in these cases are not well marked in the first instauc There is some heat of skin, and generally an absence of perspiration ; there is usual an abundant flow of urine through the wound. The pulse, as to frequency, is som what above the natural standard ; and the patient, although free from suffering, has 1 disposition to sleep. This state of things continues for twenty-four or even fort eight hours after the operation ; then the more characteristic and alarming symptoi show themselves. The pulse becomes more frequent, rising to 90, 100, and at last 140 in a minute; the heat of skin becomes still greater, the tongue dry, the countenan anxious. Afterwards, as you count the pulse, you find every now and then a be 1 weaker than the rest, and then there are complete intermissions. At first the interim sions are not more than one or two in a minute; by degrees they become more frequei until they occur every third or fourth beat. There is an occasional hiccough j tl patient complains of some degree of tenderness in the lower part of the abdomen, esp- ecially in the left groin ; the belly becomes tympanitic, that is the stomach and mte tines are filled with air, the distension of the belly increases, the hiccoughs are mo: frequent, the pulse continuing to intermit, becomes weak and fluttering. In some 1 stances, the patient retains his understanding even to the last; while in others lie fat into a state of low delirium previous to death. Occasionally in the progress of such case, the patient has a severe rigor, and sometimes he complains of a pain in the loin Where these symptoms begin at an early period, he may die within forty-eight hou from the time of the operation ; but in other cases, death may not take place for lonr c: five days, or even for a week. On dissection you find the cellular membrane round tM neck of the bladder, and between the prostate and the rectum, bearing marks of mflar. mation, infiltrated with lymph and serum, and to a greater or less extent, converts into a slough, If death has taken place at an early period, the intestines are found aid tended with air, and there is a very slight effusion of serum in that part of the pent neeum, which descends into the pelvis. But if the patient has laboured under tnea symptoms for many days before he dies, the peritonaum, where it is reflected from it bladder to the rectum, is seen of a darker colour than natural, and incrusted with lympl; and at a still later period there is the appearance of inflammation, to a greater or le extent, throughout the peritonaum generally. But the peritonseal inflammation is ev. dently not the primary disease ; it is the inflammation and sloughing of the ceuum membrane of the pelvis, which has induced inflammation of the adjoining portion < that membrane. Something also is to be attributed to the tympanitic distension of tt intestines, which, if continued for a considerable time, is always liable to be attende with tenderness of the abdomen, and some degree of peritonseal inflammation. It is in portant that you should not fall into the error of regarding such cases as I have ju described, as cases of simple peritonseal inflammation; for the remedies which wow be useful in the latter case are injurious here. The abstraction of blood, or ev operation of an active purgative, will cause the patient to sink more rapidly, only to hasten his death. The proper system to be pursued, is the opposite to tnaic depletion. The patient should take such nutriment as Ins stomach is capable ot d'e ing. The bowels may be kept open by injections, or by the exhibition of some vc gentle purgative; and ammonia, wine, and brandy are to be administere , w state of the general system indicates that stimulants are necessary, (p. 32/ •JJ 2109. The bleeding which occurs at various periods after the °Perat.10" ' requires a different mode of treatment according to its degree. . r'.1? * it may be considered useful as a local blood-letting, and as tranquil izin) the patient. A severe bleeding, when coming on soon after the operatioc if it do not yield to the use of cold applications, requires the ligature, the seat of the bleeding vessel will permit it, or pressure as a rea directed. In this case, as well as when pressure is also applied after operation, the instrument used must be continued in its proper p ace, loiw as seems necessary for the certain obliteration of the vessel, h e • from the vessels of the bladder requires, besides strict rest and a c<^° treatment, cold applications to the belly, and in cases of necessity mj tions of cold water, or solution of alum. In persons whose blood is thin and watery, their eyelids puffy and semi-transparentTHE PERINJEUM INTO THE BODY OF THE BLADDER. 611 ho are often attacked with bleeding from the nose and gums; a constant bleeding often .mes on after the operation, which is nearly always fatal, and like any parenchymatous ceding, must be treated with tonics (a). 2110. Abscesses sometimes form about the neck of the bladder, which mst be encouraged to discharge their pus. If fistula should remain, it ust be treated as already directed {par. 2105) ; frequently it is in- irable. Incapability of holding the urine and impotence, which rarely continue 'ter the lateral operation for the stone, depend upon the great bruising id gangrenous destruction which the neck of the bladder has suffered ran the large size of the stone and the violence of the extension, rengthening remedies, internally and externally, as in ischuria paraly- 'a, are the alone means which may here perhaps be useful. 2111. If tlie disposition to form stone continue after the operation, it ust be counteracted by either of the already prescribed rules (par. •11—13). An instance of remarkable disposition to form stone is mentioned by Charles Phil- ?s (6), in which in the space of six years, one lithotomy and four lithotripsies were |uired. To the works already referred to on the lateral operation for the stone, the following ly be added:— 6 Mery, J., Observations sur la maniere de la tailler dans les deux sexes pour 1’Extrac- n de la Pierre, pratiquee par Frere Jacques. Paris, 1700. VIorand, S., Opuscules de Chirurgie, vol. ii. p. 51. Iarengeot, De l’Operation laterale corrigee. Paris, 1730. li.NZ, De Calculum curandi viis, quas Foubert, Garengeot, Perchet, Le Dran 1 Le Cat reperierunt. Lipsise, 1740. >9 Pallucci, N. J., Nouvelles Remarques sur la Lithotomie, &c. Paris, 1750. 8vo. ,t Albin, R. S., Dissert, de variis Calculi secandi methodis. Ludg. Bat., 1754. n Hamper, Demonstrationes Anatom, pathologic®, lib. ii. £ Docteau, Sur l’Operation de la Taille; in Melanges de Chirurgie, p. 197. Lyon, . >0. ’ J ’eiijer, Dissert. Cultrorum ceratotomorum et cystidotomorum histaria. Witten- viS’g, 1805. BiJorner, Ueber die Wahl einer Steinschnittmethode; in von Siebold’s Chiron i. part l. ’ * !/iomson’s John, M.D., Observations on Lithotomy, &c. Edinburgh, 1808. 8vo. is -oopER, Samuel; in Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. viii. p. 20G. hCHERAND, Memoire sur l’Hemorrhagie apres T Operation de la Taille laterale: t* Vlem.de la Soc. d’Emulation, vol. i. p. 145. - -112. Incidental to the history of the lateral operation for the stone, I / Ie methods of opening the body of the bladder from the perinceum, ■ originated in the attempts made by Bamber, Cheselden Le ‘-Lv, Douglas, and Morand, to discover Rau’s operation, which was believed to consist in opening the body of the bladder (c). ■-idrl ER,r Prop°sed a particular mode of operating, in which, after the Ir ih ia<^ °6en ^ar»e ^ distended by drinking, by injection, or by liold- Kdder •Wat,er’ a. grooved trocar was thrust horizontally into the L.-i 1,1 * ie. middle of the space between the m. erector penis and m. l j. ,Q,?r nrince, from two to three lines from the ischial tuberosity and roni the anus; and after withdrawing the stilette a little, with a ’ l‘wo!C M"lical<’> v°l. >'• p. -r>;i4.' IsBl. I Mdo,'*s. »I'«vo cileil.—Lk Drah, l’arallele (a) Dkschamps, vol. iii.p. 29. des (lilTerentes manieres de tirer la Pierre hors de la Vessie, p. 109. Paris, 17S0. 2 r 2CUTTING FOR THE STONE, 612 peculiarly formed knife carried along the groove of the trocar, the ope: iim- into the body of the bladder from below upwards, and in withdrav in° the knife the outer wound was dilated. A gorget was then introduce on° the groove of the trocar, with which, if necessary, the wound w farther enlarged, and upon it the forceps passed (a). Thomas (b1 made tlie cut from above downwards by means of an instrument resei- bliug Frere Come’s litkotome. 2113. The danger of bleeding, the difficulty in extracting the ston the wounding the rectum, and the other accidents, and their consequenc which frequently accompany the lateral operation for the stone, have 1< to the practice of cutting for the stone through the rectum \LithoUmA recto-vesicalis.) This operation was first proposed by L. Hoffmann (c who <mve reasons for its preference over the others, although the proposi operation is more uncertain in its results. Sanson (d) claims it as Y own discovery, and describes his mode of proceeding. It is in especi< favour with Vacca Berlinghieri (e) and others, and performed wu success. Martin ( f ) lays claim to the discovery of this operation : he made his first expe ment on the dead body in 1786. But Hoffmann lectured on the subject in 1 / - 9. H the first notion of the operation of cutting for the stone by the rectum cannot be asenb to Vegetius («), as the Editor of the Article Lithotomie m the Diet, des Sc. Me* vol. xxviii. p. 424, imagines, Vacca Berlinchieri has sufficiently proved (A). In' the case of a thin person, with a stone of so large a size, that the extraction1 it bv the usual method, would be either impracticable, or attended with the greae risk to the patient’s life,” Brodie says, “ it may be a question, whether there is not better method of proceeding (than the high operation) m the .Tctowesica operatio in which the incision of the perinceum is made to extend through the tunic rectum and the sphincter ani muscle. Here the parts which afford the chic re to the extraction of a large stone are divided ; and, although the nsejenc of the bladder extends beyond the boundaries of the prostate, the ill consc^ arising from the escape of nrine into the cellular membrane, are likely to» be n gn measure obviated in consequence of the free opening which has been made m o t rectum." Brodie performed this operation on one occasion in whidii the st sunnosed to be very large, but did not so turn out, and the patient, who had from stone more than twenty years, died in about three weeks /^^betwe< kidneys, and on one side of the pelvis, (pp. 347, 48.) In another case, sixty and seventy, whom he operated on with Blizards knife, and on much constitutional excitement, the abdomen was tense and swollen, and then ^ danger, Brodie cut through the rectum with a probe-pointed bistouiy on th daio“V^f“ur^tont Surgeon* also performed this recto-vtsicaloperation u case where the stone was presumed to be very large; but it was not la g . went on well, and recovered without any untoward circumstances. J. r. ,j 2114. Sanson has proposed two different modes of penetrating thro^f the rectum into the bladder. After previously dividing the «t. spM*™ ani and the lower part of the rectum, in the direction ot the rap*, Methode pour tirer les Pierres de la V essie. P» (a) Foubert, Nouvelle Methode de tirer la Pierre de la Vessie ; in Mem. de l’Acad. de Chi- rureie, vol. i. p. 65, pi. i—viii. Kessei.rino, Dissert. Historic ct.exaraen Methodi FoUbkiitiani pro extractione Calculi. Hal®, 1736. (b) Thomas; in Louis, in Mem. de 1 Acad, de Chirurgie, vol. iii. jd. Odd. Desch amps, above C1T,V Von emer neuen Metliode den Stein 7,u sclmeiden ; inVermiscliten Scl.riften, herausgegeb. von. II. Ci.AVE'r. Munster, 1/91. vol. li. p.oll. fdl Des Movens de parvenir a la Vessie par le Rectum, avantages ct inconveniens attaches a cette 1SI («} Sanson, Des Movens de parvenir a ' par le Rectum, &«., suivie d un Methode d’extraire la Pierre de la 'esste n» par la voie de 1'In tost in Rectum, dc AND. IIertanohikri, traduite de 1 Ital. Par Paris, 1821. 8vo. . 'raliott (/) Nouvelle Methode de faire 1 } , la faille ; in Itevue Medicale, vol. • P* ^ 1822. . . : Basil, R Cq) Mulomedicina, cap. xlvi. nn. . (X) Above cited, p. 72.613 THROUGH THE RECTUM. i wards the root of the penis, the prostate, and part of the lower wall of ie bladder is laid bare, and then upon the groove of a staff introduced ito the bladder, the prostate is to be divided in its mesial line; or the « nife may be passed behind the prostate through the wall of the bladder the groove of the staff and the base of the bladder divided to a cer- tain extent. if , The latter method is fully described by Sanson ; the former is rather indicated. The iff when introduced is to be held upright, the left forefinger, with its volar surface wards, is to be introduced into the rectum, and upon it the blade of a straight bistoury id flat; its edge is then turned up, and with a single cut the outer sphincter muscle, together with the lower part of the rectum, is cut through in the direction of the raphe. ■.;he groove of the staff is now sought for with the finger behind the exposed prostate, jilt e point of a bistoury introduced upon it, and as it is pushed along the groove, a cut is ai ade in the lower wall of the bladder, which commencing behind its neck, passes in the it jesial line to the midst of the space between the two ureters, through which the stone ahextracted. Vacca Berlinghieri has specially defended the first mode, and has fully dMt forth his preference of it both by reasoning and experience, so that his essay may be I'ulnsidered the best guide for recto-vesical lithotomy. U 2115. The patient must be placed and bound as for the lateral opera- ; on; a staff is passed into the bladder, and given to an assistant, who )lds it firmly and perpendicularly, so that its groove corresponds to tire esial line of the urethra and the raphe. The operator then takes a might bistoury with his right forefinger and thumb, where the blade eets the handle, and lays its blade flat on the volar surface of the left ■refinger, in such way that both its edge and point are covered ; the ger and knife are then passed into the rectum, and carried upwards ten twelve lines, the dorsal surface of the finger corresponding to the ft filow of the sacrum. Whilst the operator presses the hind wall of the 9 adder with this finger, he turns with his right hand the edge of the ft stoury upwards, and with the forefinger pressing its back, he thrusts its $ fint through the front wall of the rectum, and as he withdraws the knife, iff its through the rectum, the external sphincter muscle and the cellular K ssue covering the urethra. The operator now leaves the bistoury with h e left forefinger, turns the dorsal surface of this finger towards the left i id its cubital surface upwards, carries its tip into the wound of the ® 'hinder, and places his nail (which in this operation should be always < me) in the groove of the staff, which can be felt through the wall of 1ie urethra. Guided by the nail of the left forefinger, the point of the ft stoury, with its edge downwards, is carried through the wall of the I rethra into the groove of the staff, and supported on the nail, is pushed I awards in a corresponding direction to the raphe, by which the neck of “ e bladder and the prostate are divided to a greater or less extent, ac- ;f. Tding to the presumed size of the stone. The staff is now removed, and e finger passed through the wound into the bladder, by which is ascer- Ilned whether the wound be sufficiently large, or whether it require I < argement, which may be easily done with a common or button-ended ■ s oury introduced on the left forefinger. The forceps are passed in upon ft e same finger, and the stone extracted according to the rules already . ven. After the wound has been cleansed, the patient is to be put in the | me posture as after the lateral operation. Any dressing of the wound objectionable. sL S':>lt0(,the Prostate W1,k Frere Gome’s lithotome, introduced into the groove of ■ Kienttha^with ffuTbistan0US *S 0Pune<^’ 35 IApuytren and others do, is less com-CUTTING FOR THE STONE, 614 Geri’s (a) mode of introducing a gorget an inch and three quarters broad at base, three inches and a half up the rectum is objectionable, as straining and purgi. may occur during the operation, and as the rectum is only widened at the expense • its length, and is therefore short and folded, and the peritonreum approaches the neck the bladder, so is the peritonaeum the more liable to be wounded, and certain parts oft rectum must be left undivided. Vacca Berlinghieri mentions the case of ach: operated on by Geri, which died twenty-four hours after, and both these accidents h happened. These objections apply still more to the method of Sleigh (b), who widened t sphincter and the rectum with Weiss’s speculum ani, found the hind edge of the prost; with the tip of the left forefinger, and then without touching the gland, cut through t wall of the rectum and bladder with a convex scalpel, concealed in a spring shea! upon the groove of a staff first introduced. 2116. The after-treatment has the same object as in the lateral operation The patient should take an opiate; he should use mucilaginous, dilutir drinks; at first should take exceedingly little food; and, by a propt treatment, it should be endeavoured to keep off inflammation, which ij more necessary in this than in the lateral operation, because it is accon panied with very little loss of blood. When suppuration comes oi> usually about the seventh day, it is necessary to touch the wound wit caustic at every part of the cut in the rectum; for this purpose, the edge of the wound are drawn apart a little, and a wooden canula, having a b of caustic in it, is passed up, by which the cure is promoted. 2117. The advantages of cutting for the stone through the rectum ai stated to be,first, that the patient is in no danger from bleeding; seccrnt that the bladder is reached through the least thick parts; third, that tl stone is most easily found, grasped, and pulled out, even when of large siz» because the wound corresponds to the largest space of the pelvis; fourtl that no infiltration of urine follows. Geri (c) and Scarpa (cl), the most violent opposers of this practict bring against it, first, that the wound and irritation of the rectum produc intermitting, irregular, febrile action after the operation ; second, that on. or both the vasa deferentici may be wounded, and by the pulling anil stretching in the removal of the stone, are so much injured, that inflank mation, swelling, wasting of the testicle, impotence from the destructioL adhesion or contraction of the mouths of the vasa deferentia may ensuet third, that the neighbouring parts are irritated by the use of the caustic fourth, that by the entrance of the faecal matter into the bladder, there k fear of its internal coat being destroyed, of dangerous irritation, and ft faeco-urinary fistula; fifth, the recovery is more tardy. Scarpa consid this operation even more imperfect than that of Celsus. 2118. These objections are not all of equal weight. The intermittent fever is, according to Vacca’s observations, in but very few cases direc . connected with the wound of the rectum. The injury of one of the deferentia, and the consequences based thereon, Scarpa has not supports by cases; this wound may scar or remain fistulous, and its orifice ma. still perform its functions ; besides, the operator can even avoid this in.j"U and also in the lateral operation the vas deferens and even the vestcu < seminalis may be wounded. The irritation of the neighbouring be prevented witli caustic by Vacca’s method. The entrance of matter into the bladder can only happen by cutting through its («) Rep. Med.-Chir. de Turin, No. 11, p. hA An lissny on an improved Method or cutting (br Urinary Calculi, or the Posterior Operation ot Lithotomy. London, 1824. Svo. (c) Report. Med.-Chir. de Turin, No. (rf) Saggio di Osservazionc mil TW® « Vesicate per V Estrarione della l ictra t Orinaria. Pavia, fol.THROUGH THE RECTUM,—WHEN PREFERABLE. 615 M incj not by Yacca’s proceeding, as it is prevented by the valve-like pro- fusion of the wall of the bowel cut into below; and still more as the ex- crement, in consequence of the division of the sphincter, meets with less obstruction from the natural passage. Fistulas indeed not unfrequently emain after this operation, but they communicate only with the mem- branous part of the urethra ; a little stool is passed rarely by the urethra, ;;il ind but little urine by the rectum, and nothing gets into the bladder. On >q :his point Wenzl’s (a) remark is important, that the external cut should always be made sufficiently large, by which in part, during the operation, che sphincter causes less obstacle, but it especially prevents the external Bjwound contracting more quickly than the inner. The cure is indeed uixredious in many cases, but in others has been observed to be as quick as Min the lateral operation. As to the other objections, for instance, if the qiitone be very large, that the whole prostate must be cut through, the peri- 8iptmceum may be wounded, the introduction of the instruments is not easier, |j ind the pain in the glans penis after the operation is very violent; these, Tunder corresponding circumstances, apply to the lateral operation, and in n^egard to the complete division of the prostate, it must not be overlooked d hat here, perhaps, infiltration of urine is less to be feared than in the Jirateral operation, because the cut being in the bottom of the bladder, the 9i urine more readily escapes (5). 2119. If recto-vesical lithotomy be considered in reference to the results H jbtained to the present time, it is found to vary considerably with different tB'foperators. Some consider it more successful, some less successful, than K he lateral operation. It has indeed its weak points, and in general must Je put after the lateral operation, but it has two indisputable advantages, So wit, the slight danger there is to life, and that the bleeding is not langerous. Therefore, in particular cases, and where, on account of the ize of the stone, the cut above the pubes is required, and the walls of the MB rectum are healthy, it appears preferable to the high and lateral operation, rf also in old persons, and those who have little blood, with a more than tal noderately-sized stone. The following writers may be also referred to on this subject (<* Noethig, Ueber die verschiedenen Methoden des Blasensteinschnittes, besonders n iber den Steinschnitt durch den Mastdarm nacli Sanson. Wiirzb., 1818. Riberi; in Repertorio Medico-chirurgieo de Turino. No. 31-33. 1 ,Vacca Berlinghieri, Memoria sopra il metodo di estrare la Pietra della Vesica oriu- *yina per la via dell’intestino retto. Memoria terza. Pisa, 1823. *1 oooRNESE’ Essame delle osservatione sul Taglio retto-vesicale dal A. Scarpa. Milan ■io23. 1 n i Compte-Rendii Medico-Chirurgical des Observations recueillies a l’Hopital de la BL'liante de Lyon. Sec. partie, 1823. Sanson, Compte-Rendu de la Pratique Chirurgicale de l’Hotel Dieu de Lyon— jfjArchives generales de Mddecme, vol. vi. p. 83. ^ i Scarpa; in Annali Universali de Medicina, vol. xxx. p. 125. 1824. |Bl^S.8°Edbtarg^ 1P82°5 at°ry ESSay °n thG Extraction of Calcilli from the Urinary Smd vovIwYeber G!nif Met,hode,n Hamsteine aus der Blase zu ziehen; in von Graefe I uu V0N VValtiier s Journal, vol. vni. p. 530. \ J°Urnal Cwnplementaire du Dictionnaire des Sciences Mcdicales; Babbantini, Oeschichte eines Steinschnittes durch die Method©; In N. Chiror, (O Journal Complement, du Diet, des Sc. Med., vol. xvii.p. 128. 1823.—Dupuytren, Mumoirosur uno Nouvclle Manipro do pratiquer rOporation de la Pierre, publ. par Begin et Sanson, p. 13.616 CUTTING FOR TIIE STONE IN WOMEN, vol. vi. p. 79.—WiLLiAUME, vol. x. p. 180.— Camoin, vol. xii. p. 19.—Dupuytren < 4 Sanson, vol. xv. p. 8(3-87.—Pezerat, vol. xviii. p. 128. Heinecke; in Journal von Graefe und von Walther, vol. v. p. 305. Gostorf ; in same, p. 510. Behre; in Heidelb. Klinisch. Annalen, vol. i. p. 453. Royer Collard, Clinique Chirargicale de 1’Hotel Dieu; in Repert gen. d’Anatom: ■ et de Physiologie pathologique, etc., vol. i. p. 234. 2120. Vacca Berlinghieri’s (a) most recent practice still remain. ■ to be noticed, which without having the disadvantages of the recto-vesica 1 operation, unites all the advantages, and resembles the coup de maUri j proposed by Marechal in the great apparatus {par. 2066.) ThejfirstI cut, from twenty to twenty-two lines long, extends from the edge of thi j rectum, along the raphe to the scrotum, divides the skin, the fibres of th>; ! m. leva,tor ani and transversus perincei, which with the m. accelerator urince, the urethra and the m. erector penis form a sort of triangle in the perinceum. The left forefinger introduced into the front of the wound- seeks for the groove of the staff, which is held upright, passes the knifi into it, and therewith cuts into the urethra to the extent of the outer wound A knife with a blunt beak, about two lines long, is inserted into th< groove of the staff, at the lower part of the wound ; the staff is then raise** j towards the pubic arch, slightly inclined towards the operator, and thei-j pushed about an inch deep into the bladder Without changing the posM tion of the staff, the handle of the knife is to be raised a little towards thi scrotum, by which its back is jammed against the groove of the staff, ant in drawing it out, the neck of the bladder, the prostate, the membranous part and the cellular tissue beneath it are cut through. If the wound tx 1 not sufficiently large, it may be easily enlarged in the usual way. Irl withdrawing the stone, the blades of the forceps should be directed towards the angles of the wound. L. Balardini (b) has given an account of eight cases treated in the same manner. According to Pantaleo (c), the oblique cut in the direction of the outer wound shoulc be made with a double-cutting bistouri cache’, through the upper and lower part of thffli prostate. Ij Here also must be mentioned Dupuytren’s proposal, which he pursued very sue cessfully, but has not made known publicly. He made a cut into the raphe oppo- site the staff held vertically, then with the bistoury penetrated the groove of the stafljs and passed upon it into the bladder Frere Comb's bistouri cache, then turned the of the instrument upwards, for the purpose of dividing the neck of the bladder as tne I bistoury is withdrawn (d). B.—Of Cutting for the Stone in Women. Louis, Sur la Taille des Femmes; in Mercure de France. Dc'eembre, 1746. Masotti, La Litotomia delle Donne perfezionata. Firenza, 1764. Platner, Progr. Historia literario-chirurgica Lithotomiae Mulierum. Lips-, 1"(1- < Cronenberg, Historia Lithotomiae in muliere facta:. Hal®, 1811. Behre, Dissert, de Lithotomia muliebri. Kilim, 1822. , J Behre, Versuch einer historisch kritischeu Darstellung des Steinschnittes beutt-*! Weibe. Heidelberg, 1827. 8vo. von Kern, above cited, p. 149. 2121. The various methods and modes of proceeding in the operation < (a) Della Litotomia nei due Sessi. Quarta Memoria. Pisa, 1825. (/,) Annali Universali di Medicine, vol. xlvi. p. 238. 1828. (e) Lancet, 1833-4, vol. ii. p. 557. \trd- (U) Sanson,almve cited, ""roti R- , Chir. //fitting, vol i- p. CoLf.AKD, above cited, p. 500.617 BY THE LATERAL OPERATION. Ti if cutting for the stone in females may be most conveniently brought ■Uoo-ether under the following heads: — °First. The cut below the arch of the pubes, with the divisions of the n urethra and neck of the bladder. a. The cut made as in the lateral operation. b. The horizontal cut on one or both sides, with or without dilating. c. The vertical cut upwards. | d. The vertical cut downwards. Second. The cut below the pubic arch, without division of the urethra. Sa. The vestibular cut of Celsus and Lisfranc. b. von Kern’s method. c. The vagino-vesical operation. Third. The cut above the pubic arch. [It may be well to notice here Astlky Cooper’s observation, that women suffer il nore from stone in the bladder than men, and that “ in addition to the symptoms s-vobserved in the male, as the irritability of the bladder increases, the pain during h/nicturition is excessive, and there is agonizing suffering after the discharge of Riche urine from bearing down of the bladder, uterus, and rectum, with a sensation K )f their being forced through the lower opening of the pelvis. The retention of T urine becomes imperfect, and the person is always wet, and smells offensively of urine. The sufferings of the patient at length render her incapable of moving ,'rom her bed.” (p. 298.) a Brodie observes, that “in women, calculi of a small size are expelled as they Imre in the male sex, without ulceration or other injury to the urethra, and without ■the patient suffering any inconvenience afterwards. Calculi of very considerable * ize occasionally escape from the female bladder; but the natural cure in these I »ses is effected by a less simple process.” In one case he mentions “a large »\mlculus was found in the vagina, which was extracted with the fingers, the urethra Rind vagina had ulcerated, and the calculus had passed through the ulcerated open- J ng.” (p. 350.) A similar case is mentioned by Astley Cooper, “in which the S [tone” was placed half in the urethra and half in the vagina; the extremities of ^Jiihe stone were large, and connected by a narrow portion which passed through 9'j;.n ulcerated opening in the under part of the urethra.” (p. 298.)] 2122. Cutting for the stone in women by the lateral operation is ci net-formed in the following manner:— After the patient has been bound and properly fixed in the same •position as in operating on the male, the labia are separated from ■ach other, the operator passes a straight staff through the urethra ' nto the bladder, holds it with his left hand in such way that the r-'p-oove may be directed outwards and downwards, and its convexity ^pressed against the lower edge of the pubic arch, and passes on it i ■ common bistoury, or the knife used in the lateral operation, or ven a gorget with the edge directed downwards and outwards, be- i ween the vagina and the ascending branch of the haunch-bone, up i o the closed end of the staff. In withdrawing the bistoury, its point unst be sunk for the purpose of enlarging the cut. |j If Frere Come’s lithotome be used, it must be introduced closed i through the urethra into the bladder, after setting it at a number r. corresponding to the size of the stone, pressed against the pubic arch, I ina withdrawn, whilst the blade is projected, in such direction that ■ ^ret'lra and neck of the bladder may be divided obliquely down- I- rp.rf+S» an • outwarc,s> as when the bistoury is employed. The forceps j hen introduced on the finger or on a gorget, and the stone I* -rWn according to the rules already laid down. n t ns mode of operating there is danger of wounding the vagina,618 CUTTING FOR THE STONE IN WOMEN, or the pudic artery; and in removing a large stone, there is fear irritating the cellular tissue attaching the urethra and of palsy of tl neck of the bladder, in consequence of the bruising and draggir. which it suffers (a). 2123. In the horizontal cut on one (usually the left) or on boi sides, the cut is made either with a narrow blunt-ended bistoury, wit a common stone-knife, with a cutting gorget upon a staff, or director of which the groove is directed towards the side; or with Frere Come lithotome, or with a proper single or double-cutting instrument, ar, its enlargement effected with the gorget, the finger, the forceps, ( the dilators. In this mode of cutting, the vagina indeed is safe fro: injury, but damaging the pudic artery is more to be dreaded. Le Cat’s method with the grooved staff.—Horn’s dilating lithotome.—Franco1 cutting forceps.—Louis and Flurant’s double-edged lithotome cache'.—Le Blanc> single-edged lithotome, and the like.—Compare also Behre. [Liston employs the horizontal cut, but not to the extent here mentioned. E says:—“ The best mode of extracting foreign bodies from the bladder is to wide the urethra gradually by means of the screw-dilator, then by the introduction of straight blunt-pointed knife to notch the neck of the bladder slightly towards eac ramus of the pubes, so as to divide the dense fibrous band encircling it; the diU tation is continued, and in a few minutes the finger can be admitted; the stone ca then be readily grasped by a pair of forceps, and it is astonishing how large : body may he removed by these means. Incontinence of urine may follow tl operation from the distension of the sphincter of the bladder; but in a few wee! this will generally cease. The mode of proceeding above recommended is b much to be preferred over the mere dilatation, as being less painful and more rapi in execution; and looking to the after-consequences, it is undoubtedly preferabl to extensive incision of the neck of the bladder with or without wound of th vagina.” (pp, 525, 26.)] 2124. In the vertical cut upiuards, formerly advised by Colot (b) and recently by Dubois, after the patient has been properly placed a staff is introduced into the urethra with its groove upwards; am whilst the operator holds it with his left hand, he presses its bad against the lower wall of the urethra, by which its canal is expanded for the purpose of its more ready division. A narrow-pointed single edged bistoury, with its edge a little directed to the left so as t* avoid the clitoris, is now passed in, and whilst the two instrument- form an angle, the point of which corresponds to the neck of tm? bladder, and the base to the permanent, the canal of the urethra ant the neck of the bladder are divided. After the knife has been with! drawn, a gorget is introduced on the groove of the staff, and upow it the forceps (c). Riciierand (cl) and Dupuytren employ for thm operation Frere Come’s lithotome, which having been introduce through the urethra into the bladder with its edge above, and ratliei inclined to the side, is withdrawn, whilst its blade is projected. [Bkodie performed an operation which is a modification of the vertical eu upwards. He says, he “was informed it had been adopted by an eminent P viucial Surgeon, and had not been followed by the usual incontinence of urm « I introduced,” says he, “a bistouri cache into the urethra, having previously n the screw in the handle of the instrument, so that the cutting edge could no ^ made to project more than to a very small extent; perhaps to about one-sixtn (n) Klein, Prakt. Ansichten u. s. «., part ii. (6) Ambr. Parei, Opera, edit. GfU.i.E*1*10 ^ n 1.—SCUREOER, Uhirurgische Venuclie, vol. il. lib. xvi. cap. xlvii. p. 506. * * (c) Dufuytrkn, Lithotomie, 51. P* (d) Nosographie Chir., vol. iii. p. 558. Fifth Edition.619 BY THE VERTICAL CUT DOWNWARDS. its an inch. Then drawing out the bistouri, with the cutting edge turned directly \A upwards, I endeavoured to divide the membrane of the urethra immediately below * the symphysis of the pubes, without allowing the incision to extend into the con- tp, ti'uious cellular structure. The next step of the operation was to introduce Weiss’s If; dilator, and dilate the urethra, so as to allow of the introduction of the finger, and ;■* afterwards of the forceps, into the bladder. As the urethra now offered no re- <3; ■sistance, this dilatation was readily effected in the course of a few minutes, and * thus the stone was extracted. The patient did not suffer from actual inconti- R nence after the operation ; she could not, however, retain it for so long a time ft' as before the disease existed; I believe not longer than two hours. But I have hi performed the same operation in several other cases with a still more favourable Tj result.” (p. 354.)] 2125. This operation has the following- advantages:—The lower part dtof the urethra has not any bone beneath it, it is very supple and yields below. After the operation, the uninjured lower wall of the MHirethra forms a groove over which the urine flows out without dis- mturbing the cure of the wound above, the healing of which may be as- insisted by the pressure of a sponge introduced into the vagina. Further, f1 the trunk and large branches of the pudic artery are preserved from n injury, and in the event of any of its minute terminal branches ilv}3leeding, they are readily stanched by pressure against the arch of the v- oubes. Great as these advantages are, it must, however, be remembered [ :hat large stones cannot be withdrawn without considerable bruising of »:he neck of the bladder, and tearing the natural connexions of the irethra, the consequence of which is incurable incontinence of urine («). 2126. The vertical cut downwards may be made on the groove of r l male staff, held upright, and its concavity pressed against the arch :lsbf the pubes, with a common bistoury ; or Frere Come’s litholome tiay be preferred, with which the urethra, the neck of the bladder, ud the corresponding wall of the vagina may be cut through down- ■sMivards in their mesial line. This method corresponds to the recto- v-.’esical operation on the male ; by it a sufficiently large wound may u )e made without danger of bleeding, and the largest stone may be extracted with ease, as experiments on the dead, and successful results T m the living, have satisfied me. That incontinence of urine is to *tbe feared with a free cut, and that the danger of a vesico-vaginal diistula is. greater than in the common mode of cutting the bladde °and \Vagina, is refuted, at least by my experience, which especially deter- v-nines me to consider this as the most preferable mode of operating (J>). 9 Falconet (c) heretofore recommends this practice. "» BROMnELD (d) mentions that he saw a Surgeon introduce one blade of a pair V. omton-ended scissors into the urethra and the other into the vagina, and divide he under part of the urethra, up to the entrance of the vagina, 'to the extent of •’ n inch at least. According to Brojifield, such a cut could never again unite, 1 aiT' m7 °f observations prove; but he says, as the neck of fhe bladder : ^pretty well °f Sp r muscle not dlvlded> the patients in general kept their 2127. The cut below the pubic symphysis, without dividing the urethra ^nd the neck of the bladder, is the method of Ceesus. The stone must erfZ PlnSt thG !'eck of the b.ladder in girls by the finger in the 1, and in women by the finger in the vagina, and the stone cut on (k\ p TI , (a) Bekbe, p. 129. IFinbe ; in Hei’delb miniKcli hein» (c) An educcnilo calculo cnsteris nnteferendus ■art i.ls,c„K^R in wn HnmW ■ { n'' aPPnrtt'us lateral“ ? Paris, 1744.-ln llalleri Uis- pondenEhiatt. ' Jnl^iSS'^ No & ™ ^ ^ ivV ?.* '08' •* 1>0, W Above cited, vol. ii. p. 279.CUTTING FOR TIIE STONE IN WOMEN, 620 in the one on the under and left side, and in the other between the urethrc I and the arch of the pubes. The great objection to this method is self a evident ; the pudic artery, the vagina, and even the rectum, are exposes! to injury, on which account this operation is generally discarded (a). 2128. Lisfranc’s vestibular cut is to be considered a modification o j Census’s operation. After the patient has been placed in the usual pos ■ 1 ture and bound, two assistants draw the labia apart. The operator stand i ing between the legs of the patient, introduces a common male staff through t the urethra into the bladder with its convexity upwards. An assistant i then grasps the handle of the staff, and draws the urethra and vagini , downwards. The operator, after having assured himself of the position o < the pubic bones, and of any variety of the pudic artery, by the introduce tion of his finger into the vagina, places the left fore and middle fingei upon the points where the cut is to begin and end, and with them stretches the cellular tissue. Then holding a straight bistouiy, as a pen, he makes a semi-circular cut through the external membrane, and the stretched cel- lular tissue of the vestibule, which is to begin on the right side at cor- respondent height with the orifice of the urethra, runs within the pubic I arch at the distance of a line, and terminates on the left side at a similar < height to its beginning. The cellular tissue is then divided layer by layer » in the same direction till the front of the bladder is cut through, in doing j which all pressure against the bladder must be avoided. The left thumb is now introduced into the vagina, and the left forefinger into the wound, and the wall of the bladder therewith made tense and pressed forwards. A longitudinal or transverse cut is now made into the body of the bladder with the bistoury, or if this seem to be unsafe, the cut is to be made on the groove of the staff, or a dart sound may be used, upon which the bladder is opened and the forefinger being passed into the wound, it is to be enlarged either longitudinally or transversely with the knife (b). 2129. This proceeding of Lisfranc’s is objectionable on very many grounds. The cut is made into the bladder where there is least space, consequently the extraction of even a moderately large stone is difficult, and accompanied with bruising; the pudic artery, the position of which, cannot be well determined by the examination before the operation, may be wounded; the front of the bladder is easily separated from its cellular connexions ; the vascular net at the seat of the cut, often much developed in stone-patients, may be injured, and the wound in the bladder may slip from the external wound, in consequence of which there will be infijtra- tion. It is difficult to understand how in using the dart sound, at least with its usual curve, the dart can be protruded some lines above the nec of the bladder (c). Piers Uso Walter (d) has practised Lisfranc’s vestibular cut successfully in a •woman of forty-five. 2130. von Kern’s practice, which he has successfully followed, is the following. After the patient has been properly placed and the staff intro- duced into the bladder, an assistant standing on the right side, holds the staff with his left hand and sinks it a little towards the patient’s right Dissert, sur la Lithotomie clici la Femme. Strut*-* («) Mery, Observations snr la Maniere <le tail* ler les Deux Sexes pour l'Extruction de la Pierre, pratiquee par Frere Jacques. Paris 1700. (1) \ Memoire sur uno Nouvclle Mctliwle de pratiquer POporation de laTaille ehc* la Femme; in Revue Meuicale, vol. x. p. 1. 18.3. Meressk, (e) IIauory, L., Dissert, du meilleur l roe, a employer pour l’Operation de la Taillc c Femme. Strasli.. 1823. . . (dy VON (jRAKFE Ulid VON W ALTERS * vol. xviii. p. 283.621 BY THE VAGINO-VESICAL CUT. n oroin, and places the fore and middle fingers of the right hand near the S orifice of the urethra at its under part, which he draws down tightly, at I the same time separating the labia with the thumb and other fingers. The operator then finds the hinder extremity of the urethra with the left a thumb-nail near the neck of the bladder, places the nail upon the right < edge of the staff, penetrates the stretched urethra with the lithotome, and vj enfarges the cut by carrying the scalpel forwards in the groove of the ■ staff, ^and at the same time presses it on with the thumb until the opening is of sufficient size (a). 2131. The vagino-vesical cut has the closest resemblance to the recto- B vesical; it is performed most safely in the following manner. After placing a the patient in the position for the lateral operation, a staff is passed by the p urethra into the bladder, and a wooden gorget with its concavity upwards n is introduced into the vagina. Both instruments are brought together so i> as to form a larger or smaller angle, in proportion to the cut to be made. The gorget is to be well pressed downwards, so that the front wall of the . vagina can be got at. A straight, pointed bistoury is to be held like a i pen in the right hand, its point passed into the groove of the staff behind > the canal of the urethra, and then by thrusting it forwards, an opening is >i made corresponding to the size of the stone. Its extraction and after- treatment are conducted according to the ordinary rules. ; i 2132. The advantages of this mode of operating are great. There is V no bleeding, no incontinence of urine, and the largest stone may be in this way removed. The production of a vesico-vaginal fistula, which may be r objected to this operation, cannot, at least from present experience, be con- i sidered as the usual consequence. If this operation be restricted only »d; to the extreme cases of very large stones, it has however there undoubted n preference over cutting into the bladder above the pubes, as the patient’s life is never endangered, and at the utmost there is the inconvenience of a j fistula. The objection made by some, that the scar produced by this gs operation would cause difficulty in child-birth, is contrary to experience. Upon this subject the following works may also be consulted — Fabricius Hildanus, De Lithotomia, p. 149. Ruysch, Observationes Anatomico-pathologicse, Ohs. i. Mery, above cited, p. 28. Louis, above cited. Bussikre ; in Philosophical Transactions, vol. xxi. p. 100. 1699. Lister, Iter Parisianum, 1697. « Goocu, Cases and Practical Remarks in Surgery, vol. ii. p. 182. London 1758. 8vo. 9 Miciiaelis, Etwas uber den Blasenschnitt, p. 57. Marb., 1813. Dupuytren, above cited, p. 55. Flauber et Clemont; in Sanson, above cited, p. 23. Vacca Berlingiiif.ri, above cited, p. 110. > Del Taglio vagino-vesicale, Pisa, 1825. [In all the previously described operations, incontinence of urine is a very trouble- thk onprSrqUenC.e-a!,d,°[U;n inourable- Astlkv Cooper, indeed, saysIn all cases of reteinprfTnWhlCo haye Per,forraed or witnessed, the urine has not been afterwards loss of li “!■1 W-°U d "0t de“y [hat a Patient might recover the retentive power. As the oZ v !'°VS,a £re.ater evl] than 1 ean describe, producing excoriation and a very bv emnlovin C’. 8, 'n any future operation of lithotomy, try what may be effected tion oLyoio,(Vtt Ure l0 ^nnS,the divided parts together.” (p. 303.) Bhodie’s opera- (.P • - 24) seems to have been partially successful; but Liston (par. 2123) seems («) Aboveciteil, p. 154.COMPARISON OF 622 to think that his mode causes only a temporary incontinence. Most Surgeons lioweve i arc, I believe, sadly perplexed with this tiresome result, and the patient necessarily stil • more so. Very recently I have seen a woman, who was cut with the gorget abou < twenty years ago; she cannot retain her water at all, but it is constantly dribbling away, and she is in a very pitiable condition. To avoid this untoward result, Hey (o j made use of a cylindrical linen tent two inches long and one broad, which he passee into the vaginn, for the purpose of bringing the edges of the wound together withou obstructing the urethra, and the plan succeeded. Brodie tried the same method, bu . i unsuccessfully ; though perhaps it may have depended on the child’s irritability. I an not aware that Astley Cooper’s suggestion of sutures has yet been tried. The large size of stones which have been passed spontaneously, as related bjtj Heister (&), Middleton (e\ Colot (d), Molineux (e), and Yelloly (f), as well as the earpicker-case mentioned by Thomas (</), which was removed by dilating the urethra with sponge tent, led to the proposal of dilating the urethra either with sponge, or with an instrument corresponding in form to a speculum ani. These methods have, however, been generally followed by incontinence, if the dilatation have been made to any great* extent. Brodie says, indeed, that “ none” of the cases to which he refers “ suffered from actual incontinence of urine ; but one of them, in whom the calculus was of large, size, could not retain more than two or three ounces of urine in the bladder after- wards.” And hence he concludes, that “ the method of dilatation is not to be recom- mended, except in cases of moderate size.” (pp. 351, 52.) I think, if I should be called on to operate for stone in the female, I should be disposed to perform the. lateral cut with the gorget or knife, it would not matter much which, and adopt the method re-: commended by Hey.—J. F. S.] 2133. Opening the bladder above the pubic symphysis has been par- ticularly recommended in women, because, in drawing out the stone by ■ the outlet of the pelvis, injury of the vagina or of the pudic artery is; feared ; large stones cannot at all be extracted, and incurable inconti- nence of urine remains as the frequent consequence of this operation. The proceeding is conducted exactly as in the male, and the escape of the • urine from the wound above can be more readily prevented, by the infro-' duction of a catheter through the urethra. COMPARISON OF LITHOTOMY AND LITHOTRITY. 2134. In considering the advantages and disadvantages of lithotrity. as compared with those of lithotomy, it must be first remarked, that many of the objections properly made to its earlier mode of performance, as the difficulty of introducing the instruments, its tedious operation, especially when the stone is hard and the like, have lost much of their importance, or are entirely removed, by the great degree of perfection to which lithotrity has of late attained. The time has not, however, yet fully arrived, nor are the results yet in such condition, that a positive opinion can be given on this point. The hitherto-furnished statistics of the results of lithotomy and lithotrity afford no decisive clue, because stone-patients must, in reference to this point, be divided into three classes; first, those which are favourable, for the effectual crushing; second, those in which the crushing may be attempted, but cannot be completed ; third, those in which, on account of various circumstances, lithotrity must from the first be considered inapplicable. It is therefore clear that if only simple and slight cases fall within the compass of lithotrity, and that to lithotomy the other two unfavourable classes beloug, (a) Practical Observations on Surgery, p. 560. Edition of 1810. (/,) Chirurgie. Ntirnberg, 1719.—1 ranslated as, A General System of Surgery. London, 1757. Sixth Edition. . , , , (r.) A Short Essay on Lithotomy above the Pubes. London, 1727. 4 to. Cri) Traite de l'Operation de la Taille. Pa*. 1727. Svo. , ,, (e) Philosophical Transactions, vol. xx. p- 1693. ( f) Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. vi. p. 5<<• (</) Ibid., vol. i. p. 123.623 LITHOTOMY AND LITHOTRITY. lerefrom the results of both must necessarily be judged. In the ollation of such results, in great number and for a length of time, the i ro^ressive improvements in the operations of lithotomy and lithotrity k uist be also well considered. Only in reference to these different circum- ances can it be comprehended, how the results which have been collected k -om a great number of cases of lithotomy, have been more favourable ian those of lithotrity (perforation) ; and how the results of percussion, Heuhteloup,) though by far more favourable than those exhibited by ie earlier ones of perforation, and of cutting, have nevertheless been iurpassed by the results which individual operators have obtained with ie knife. 2135. If the possible evils which may occur in and after lithotomy and thotrity be compared, they are found to have a certain degree of equality ; to their number and danger ; only that in lithotomy, the wound specially gives rise to symptoms which in lithotrity are absent, whilst ie latter occasions considerable irritation of the bladder, and dangerous mptoms resulting therefrom. The possible evils resulting from lithotomy are bleeding, wound of ie rectum, of the seminal vesicles and their excretory ducts, and of the ’ep pelvic aponeurosis; subsequently, bleeding, infiltration of urine, ;travasation into the scrotum, inflammation of the cellular tissue of the »:;;lvic cavity, inflammation of the peritonceum, of the bladder, of the pros- ™ le and of the veins, urinary fistula, impotence, and incontinence of urine. The possible evils from lithotrity are violent pain and nervous mptoms, especially in very sensitive persons, inflammation of the urinary issages, of the prostate, and of the testicle; in rare cases, tearing of the ucous membrane of the bladder, perforation of the bladder, inflamma- m of the veins ; further, retention of urine, infiltration of urine, urinary tula, breaking of the instruments in the bladder (1), and recurrence of ane (2). [(1) In the event of lithotritic instruments being broken or bent in the bladder, so it they could not otherwise be removed, Liston says“ I had determined, should I . with any case of the kind, to pull forward the instrument as far as possible, so as to mg the sliding blade (of the percuteur) into close contact with the anterior walls of : bladder, and these with the anterior aspect of the symphysis, then to push down the 'us upon its stalk, and protect the plans with a piece of split card or stron" leather ■ : instrument was then to be seized with a hand-vice, and cut through as low as Bsible, by the use of good files; this can be done within two inches and a half of the hte‘; *ire T?U!1 tben no difficulty iu pushing the blades containing the stone •f‘tether!” Commencement of the urethra> and cutting them out ill!! U »ay, be Said’,” observes Bhodie, “ that haemorrhage is one of the incon- rffS"1 °n *he °Peratl0n of lithotrity. It may arise from the forcible intro- C"2lthfe bthotrity-forceps through the neck of the bladder, where the prostate "land thdTa£tT 7ged’ 0r l0m jht“ di!:rtation of the prostate and urethra in the act of ■the cnlbl 6 /°rrpS’t lrex.bl‘ldes are charged witb a considerable accumulation £ ,re £ 1 dr “ T ^ The !?88 of blood’ for the most Part> does not amount to our the nrilr/ P ! but ™ s°me ^stances, I have known it to be sufficient to dis- Iher l oT °ne 0r W? dayS afterwards. * * * The occurrence of rigors is .t a " S qUfi?Ce of bthotrity, in some instances. I have already mentioned B jcera"&W1S y p™ducud by the stretching of the urethra, at thelime of the I SbyTh8elSron fT blardde''’ and thatl in most ^stances, it may be pre % operation. mptorn however'mimeuiateiy alter the operation. This a,l„s findh." he 7 -T S°m oth,er causes; as, for example, from a fragment of •f ssure ofieSs?eryJ -tbC which is 100 largc to be expelled by the e stream of urine. And it sometimes happens, that the effect of a dose624 COMPARISON OP of opium is, not to prevent the rigor altogether, but to cause it to he deferred till following day. The liability to rigors, however, where due precautions are used seldom such as to interfere in any great degree with the process necessary for patient’s cure and his ultimate recovery.”—(pp. 370, 71.)] 2136. If these various circumstances in lithotomy and lithotrity compared in regard to their cause, to wit, the wound in lithotomy, a, the injury of the bladder in lithotrity, it must be presumed that pain a nervous symptoms may be equally present in both, but their frequc repetition in lithotrity is of importance; that bleeding, wound of t rectum, injury to the peritonceum, which are very much to be dread in lithotomy, cannot happen in the modern practice of lithotrity; tl infiltration of urine, so frequently fatal after lithotomy, is almost impc sible in lithotrity; that phlebitis and peritonitis are observed not unfi quently after lithotomy, but very rarely after lithotrity, which al applies in like manner to the continuance of fistula ; that, on the otli hand, inflammation of the bladder, inflammation and abscess of the pri tate are more common after lithotrity than after lithotomy. Bruising tearing of the mucous membrane of the bladder, as also breaking of t instruments in the bladder, is at the present time scarcely possible, wi the improved instruments. Many of the evils mentioned are principally dependent on the operator; this remaj however, applies as well to lithotomy as lithotrity. 2137. Further, if lithotrity be considered in reference to the conditi of the urinary organs, the age, sex, and constitution oi the patient, a the nature of the stone, it follows, that a diseased change and swelling. the prostate, purulent catarrh, great sensibility, and contraction of t, bladder, render lithotrity quite impossible, or considerably increase ?l clcLD p*er Although lithotrity was formerly considered inapplicable to clnldre and numerous experiments by Civiale, Amussat, Leroy, and othe^ have proved its practicability in little children; yet, however, the result lithotomy at this age is so favourable, and the employment of litliotri so difficult, that lithotomy should undoubtedly be preferred. In advanc* age, on the contrary, the results of lithotomy are far more unfavou able than those of lithotrity. In females, the less difficulty in the intr Auction of instruments (par. 20-57) is compensated by the dinigBj of keeping the bladder distended; but lithotrity, although .ithotomy woman is much more rarely fatal than in man, has this great a that no incontinence of urine remains after it, an infirmity, t ie impoa tance of which in women cannot be too seriously thought of. It niu finally be remembered, that for very stout persons, who are always tl most unfavourable subjects for lithotomy, lithotrity is by far less dangenm In reference to the nature of the stone, it must also be considered, with the improved new instruments, even large stones may be broken «j pieces, and that no stone, from its hardness, can easily withstand tna effect • but the frequent repetition of the operation, which in such cases necessary, causes danger, partly from the frequent irritation of theunn organs; partly, and especially, from the repeated febrile the inflammation of other organs thereon dependent. I he “ applies to stones in large number. Such stones as are of moderate and round or oval form, are best for crushing; flat stones are difficult grasp and break up.LITHOTOMY AND LITHOTRITY. 625 2138. If now, after the consideration, founded on experience, of the advantages and disadvantages of lithotomy and lithotrity, the particular cases in which the one or other practice is specially indicated, be re- viewed, it follows that lithotrity appears preferable, first, in small stones or those of no great size; second, when there are two, or several little stones; third, in stones of moderate size, and when they can be easily broken, and if in all these cases the bladder be healthy, or only in a trivial degree affected. These indications are more important, when such cases occur in old persons, in females, or in very stout people. On the other hand, lithotomy is decidedly to be preferred ; first, in childhood ; second, with large and hard, and especially mulberry stones ; third, when there are several large stones; fourth, when large stones entirely fill, or , are completely locked in by a contracted and unextensible bladder ; > fifth, in diseased prostate, or severe affection of the bladder; sixth, in very great sensibility of the bladder, so that the patient can bear neither its distension, nor the motion of the instruments ; seventh, with stones, of which the nucleus, as, for example, when it is a bullet or the like, cannot be destroyed by the lithotriptor. It is also not to be overlooked, that in the general employment of lithotrity, the patient should be subjected to it : early, by which its results are more certain, and its use will become more easy and general. On the other hand, however, it must not be unnoticed, that under directly the same circumstances, which are favourable for crushing, does cutting for the stone, if performed with ability, lose much of its danger. Strictures of the urethra are only temporary contraindications for lithotrity, and equally applying to lithotomy, they must be first got rid of. Palsy of the bladder 1 *Jei'her contraindicates lithotrity, nor renders its performance difficult. Should the r fragments of the stone indeed be discharged more slowly or with difficulty, this may m f, -T °'''ercome by injections; and experience has shown that the palsy of the bladder has been relieved, and even removed, by the effect of the lithotriptic operation, S3 wmcli, however, has also been several times noticed after lithotomy. , L“ commencing the practice of lithotrity, I have found,” says Key, “that more man Halt the number of adults who have come under my care have been fit subjects „ i °Peratlon; and that in the majority of persons afflicted with calculus, it has a.dvantaSres °Jer lithotomy. One among the principal advantages which ^ to mikpyfiftpCOn vrrd °A U'g!,ry 1S,the early application which patients are induced L ^ nef °f,theU' d'sorde';- Formerly * * * the disease was asso- „ rtmiir tthelr nunds wlttl a most painful and dangerous operation, that must be had I suffering ’ Tif i remedy’ ,whG£ P.alhative measures failed to afford relief to their I ^tfemigs. The dangers and sufferings of lithotomy, magnified as they were bv the l TZtlT detGved “r a?plyilnS for medical assistance when the pains if the t™ T up0n him1’by ;h(; dread of having his worst fears confirmed. Even ■> allowed to “Ce °fa ,e ^ bis bladder were ascertained, it was, in too many instances, l si"rai that ffle1LU, t1Ur C’m expectation that it might not increase in It so often wf lie severity of Pam might continue to be mitigated by the medicines that liuntilffie f 6n f0U,U t°,aSSUage hlS PanSs' The operation was thus procrastinated n the nf ,l eea,<:FU,rC,d a -arg? ,S1ZC’ often Until the bIadder had become diseased, and , - ^ undermined by protracted sufferings. * * * Nor has lit.hotritv i him for syTpt^^of fu SulF°n- Formerly, when a patient first consulted ifi by sedative and^lk ^ fbllowed by pain, he was content to palliate the malady ® iflection stone nr medicines, regardless whether they were caused by prostatic 1 bat couid be used a anv 'iL l' d ^1'1' ?"0^ The« USe.of the sound was deferred: f "hen th(. nmtont\ sMfF rCrF USUally> waf first introduced into the bladder i if soundffi^was^alstFenmbw «i3d bec?me severe and protracted. * * * The operation ii "hen smalf, it would he in'1,!11 a slov?nly “anner- if the stone were not discovered $ early stage. Now the q„rrF dI'ge’ and n? advantage was gained by operating in the * lortance of discovering thet, /'! ^xam.lr‘£s the bladder with great care, knowing the im- Vol. ix S e calculus at the earliest period, he no longer leaves its exist- * 2 sG26 COMPARISON OF ence a matter of doubt, but proceeds at once to examine the bladder, and determines its presence; or by a skilful searching of every part of the viscus, ascertains that a stone does not exist. * * * The early symptoms of the disease are thus watched with more jealousy on the part of the Surgeon, and are not so scrupulously concealed by the patient. The advantages of an early knowledge of the existence of a stone, and of prompt mea- sures for its removal, are known to both. rI he result of this is, that patients applj for advice when the stone is small, the bladder uninjured by its presence, and the kidneys free from disease. In three out of four persons who apply for advice, for symptoms of calculus, the size of the stone and the conditions of the viscus render lithotrity an easy and safe operation. Within the last three or four years, I have marked the very early application that patients make for advice, and the small size of the stone when first dis- covered, compared with those of former years. In private practice, I have not ex- tracted, by either operation, a calculus larger than a good-sized mulberry, except in three cases, in one of which the stone was of unusually rapid formation, (p. 13-16.) “ The size of the calculus,” observes Key, “ forms of itself no objection to lithotrity. A large stone presents, however, several considerations for the Surgeon to weigh before he undertakes the operation. As the stone cannot be entirely crushed at one sitting, a patient with an irritable or unsound bladder, becomes involved in most serious danger by the operation being hastily adopted. A large stone broken up into many irregular fragments, all crowded by the contractions of the bladder against the irritable and in- flamed cervix, causes excessive efforts to void the urine, and even inflammation of the mucous surface. Under such circumstances, the repetition of the operation becomes impossible, or highly dangerous; and the patient has to struggle through the stages of inflammation, with a bladder irritated by the lesser fragments. But if the bladder be free from disease, and not very irritable, it will bear the number ot sittings required to break up a large stone, without much suffering to the patient, and with very little danger. The success of lithotrity, like that of most surgical operations, mainly depends on its subject. If the constitution be good, and the power of endurance great, difficul- ties of most unpromising nature may be overcome. We should therefore pay more re- gard to the general condition of the patient, and of his bladder, than to the size of the < stones; and inquire minutely into the several circumstances likely to have an influence i on the result of the operation. * * * I know of no limits to the size of a calculus re-1 movable by lithotrity but the power of the lithotrite. If a powerful instrument can be brought to embrace it, and the organ be healthy, the operation may, as far as my expe- rience goes, be attempted with propriety. , , . ., , “ The different ages of patients to be submitted to the lithotrite or the knife, are re- markably contrasted with one another. Whilst to youth and advanced age the latter is more suitable, the former is found generally better adapted to the middle period, tween puberty and the decline of life. We have seen, in speaking of lithotomy that persons whose sexual organs are completely developed, are more liable to the accidents attending the use of the knife than children, whose organs are not yet evolved ; or than the aged, whose irritability is on the wane. The full-grown healthy adult, on t e trary, presents all the conditions most favourable for crushing the calculus Ihe canal is sufficiently large to admit an instrument efficient from its size ; the prostate glan ^ usually healthy, and free from the enlargement of age ; thus rendering the neck ot tnc bladder a part so important in the operation, little exposed to the dangers of lnflam tion. When there is a normal prostate gland, the operator may manipulate his m> ment without risk of bruising, or otherwise injuring this most sensitive ot all t »e P concerned in the operation. The urethra of such patients being more free, the rag ments are expelled with less difficulty, and cause less pain in their expulsion, w 11C also materially assisted by a sound and vigorous bladder. At this age also, muani _ tion, should it supervene, is more easily controlled than in the aged subject, who cairn well bear depletion. The warm bath and free venesection, speedily arrest me in _ mation of the mucous membrane of the bladder ; but the old are soon depressed y diseased action, as well as by the measures required for its suppression. Inflammation, however, is less liable to occur in such, healthy subjects, where the parts are no chanically injured by the operation, and when the patient has been prepared by'J and other prudential measures. The aged subject, however, is not le® adapted t operation than the younger adults, if he be free from the common accidents of ^ enlarged prostate, accompanied with an irritable state of the bladder. If the Par!‘ ,... aged^are sound, the operation is especially successful in them; as there is less imffibd^ in the organs of generation, and less excitability of the general system. The urdhra also is usually larger, and if the neck of the bladder be free, it allows fragments of extm ordinal size , pas . * * * In the old subject, however, difficulties often pre-scut them627 LITHOTOMY AND LITHOTEITY. , selves, in consequence of the change which the parts about the neck of the bladder l< undergo, and the unsound condition of the bladder itself consequent on these changes. J The operation in such persons is rendered dangerous by the inflammatory disposition A of the organ, and by the difficulty with which the fragments make' their way through * ±e prostatic portion of the canal. “ The state of the bladder is, perhaps, of all the circumstances that the lithotritist has ;o consider, the most important; and one on which the propriety of performing the iperation will mainly hinge. Three conditions of this organ are necessary, and these nust be ascertained by preliminary observations and trials, before the operation is de- ermined on -. first, it must be capable of holding a sufficient quantity of water to facili- ate the working of the percussor ; second, it must be free from that extreme irritability hat often attends the latter stages of calculous disorders; and, third, not prone to in- lammation from slight excitement. In healthy persons, the bladder, even under the rritation of a stone, will allow several ounces of water to be injected into its cavity rithout sustaining more than a slight inclination to eject it. Its retentive powers are lot impaired in the early stages of the disorder; patients will go for many hours with- 7 '.ut “3; desire to empty the bladder, the only early symptom being a smarting, when r he bladder contracts on the calculus. It is therefore rare to meet with any difficulty n injecting water sufficient for the purpose of giving space for the operation, amongst hose who apply for advice soon after the symptoms have begun to declare themselves tven when, from the long-continued presence of the stone, the bladder becomes mor- >idly affected, and able to contain but three or four ounces of urine without an irresisti- le desire to expel it, much may be done by treatment to assuage the irritation of the iucous membrane, and tranquillize the muscular excitability. When the stone has een long resident in the bladder, and has produced a change in the mucous membrane nd a copious discharge of phosphatic mucus, signs of extreme irritability come on, and Imost seem to forbid any expectation of lithotrity being practicable. The desire to [iioid urme m renewed every two hours or oftener; the urine not only deposits a large ' dir^C°r°Urfld mUCU- but,lf\cloudy- and loaded with small flakes of adhesive nv hrnri ‘ °f mdammatlonof the mucous lining; the pain in expelling the last w drops of mucus is intense Such continued suffering affects the general health • , nd woUid seem, I say, to forbid the operation altogether Frequently, however, will’ 6 sy“Pt0“s yie d t° a system of diet and medicine, andy the patient by egrees be unexpectedly brought into a condition to bear the operation.” fp 23-30 f 7 tf uodemteS^lTsm0n^n7irr>iable btladder* usuall.y experience some form of irritation after 1 i Wlth water and examination with the catheter. It generally urmi °f rig0,i OCC™g once or more m the twenty-four hours after the * fie ri wTf r ’ fi?d followed by severe pyrexia, that lasts for several days. }. jloEid hwhtself mdicattes the degree of irritation produced by the sound; and if not il evident tbf6bflt S age ?f feve,r.’ u mdicates nothing more; but the presence of purexia l^ce of inflammatacm taking place, and such a state is most unfavoumble to I .nce J' dlS*;'f^tl0n; therefore, is to be drawn between these two states; the occur- i'tends the ^ d°*.deter t ]e Surgeon from commencing the operation—it often a „ f e rst examination, and may never recur; but the indication of inflammation t a coatl,nued state of pyrexia, should at once induce him to defer theope™-’ I i.’H;at l !,y withdrawing all stimuli, he has brought the bladder into a tranouil state l«d bffiSK h“ f. ?f“» kept »P by improper fbod°1^Sfv d 5?k 1 *‘omditio f mol Plethoric condition of the system, and a flushed conhtenance Such 5 “Z? f-y 1 °Xerc?me > and ,s unlike that state of bladder which is the effeet of I “One nrinei1S°ir8aniZatlf°’ and?^ten associated with diseased kidneys, (p 37 ) I- of SZr 0f tbe bladder is a ™rbid condition'of thein,^, ftserves tht elnenS .l.m,1! ab°Ut the neck of the bladder, above all others '* e most difficulties and widalso fim 'tfe^V^f ’ &S U ls h°re that he will ever meet with I• Hty of this part of the M 1c s"arce ?f daager. The extreme suscepti- i ation following the intro 1 t^ ’S unfredu.ently evinced in severe rigor and inflam- I :«‘ed with anmargedptosate1 ^TheT** “ Tbo comPlain of dysuria con- Ppn, have a severe attack broucht'on h ft perS°f! ofte? hl6hly deposed to inflamma- ' lrpose of ascertaining the th® ,casual introduction of an instrument for the * aad is combiSScalal L Wben the morbid audition of the [faces, become greatly Scret^and ?nflfammaflon> and the danger of its conse- i’t Prepared for the operation hi’lfeef l Pejformance of lithotrity in persons P“ It would be aZC-', h u kT\n t0 mduCe a fatal cystitis." (pp. 38, 9.) g error, says Brodie (a), “ to represent lithotrity as preferable on (a) Above cited. 2 s 2628 COMPARISON OF all occasions to lithotomy ; but it is so in a great many instances. I shall endeavour j explain by what signs you may distinguish from each other the cases to which it . 1 applicable, and those to which it is not. In boys under the age of puberty, lithotomy! 1 so simple and so generally successful, that we ought to hesitate before we abandon it 4 any other kind of operation. There is also a manifest objection to lithotrity in tb ti cases, on account of the small size of the urethra, which is such that it would notadi | of the introduction of instruments of sufficient strength to crush a calculus of more tl t moderate dimensions. In the female sex the extraction of a calculus from the blade !d by the ordinary methods is attended with little danger ; while the operation of crush!;, i is rendered difficult in consequence of the short and wide urethra, allowing the wa < which has been injected into the bladder to escape by the side of the lithotrity-forcr i before the operation is completed. In cases in which the calculus has attained a vc I large size, it is often difficult to seize it with the lithotrity-forceps; the operation u « crushing requires to be repeated a great number of times, so that many weeks may elaj - y before the cure is accomplished ; a large quantity of fragments is left in the bladder, <t which the necessary consequence is a great liability to inflammation of the muct -a membrane ; and of course the inconvenience produced by the passage of the fragmei*i along the urethra is multiplied, as compared with what happens when the calculusA smaller. These circumstances form a sufficient objection to the operation of lithotr s in these cases. It is true that they are unfavourable cases for lithotomy also; but I ha little doubt that the latter method is the safer of the two. It admits of a question, whetb f in such cases the two modes of operating may not be advantageously combined, the calcu. a being crushed into three or four pieces first, and extracted by the usual incision afbfl wards. The operation of lithotrity is not well adapted to those cases of enlargement A the prostate gland, in which the patient is unable to empty the bladder by his own effoi 1 unless the calculus be of small size, so that there may be no difficulty in crushing 11 minute fragments into which it has been crushed out of the bladder through a lar I catheter. There is also another objection to the operation in some cases of enlargemer i of the prostate, namely, that the tumour which projects from it into the cavity of t * bladder, makes it difficult to elevate the handle of the forceps sufficiently to seize t si stone easily in the usual manner. _ , . , I “ I have described the dangers which attend on lithotomy in those cases in wnicD,' ■ calculus of the bladder is complicated with disease of the kidney. One of the prmcip f| of these is connected with the loss of blood, which that operation must always occasK-j to some extent, and not unfrequently to a great extent, in spite of the best exertions 1 the Surgeon to prevent it. I have no doubt that in such cases, the operation of erusim-i is the safest method of proceeding; but a small shock to the system will sometun>| destroy the life of a patient who labours under renal disease, and it will be often mou| prudent to trust to the means which we possess of palliating his sufferings, than to n ■ the risk of shortening his life in the endeavour to obtain a cure. * 1 ,.. I exception of such cases as those which have been enumerated, there are tew to wnic« this method of treatment (Lithotrity) may not be advantageously applied. t ,, said that the exceptions are numerous ; but they are the result chiefly ot delay. I patient seeks the assistance of a competent Surgeon within six or even twelve m after a calculus has descended from the kidney into the bladder, the urine 1 remained acid, it will rarely happen that he may not obtain a cure by a sing e Py tion, and with so small an amount of danger, that it need scarcely enter into is lations. As time advances, the facility with which he can be relieved diminis , J after the lapse of two or three years, especially if the urine has become alkn in , probable that the calculus will have attained such a size as to render the old ope (Lithotomy) preferable, and that the access of disease in the bladder or kiduey_ | render any operation hazardous. It would be absurd to say, and it would be un ' 1 able of human kind to expect, that an operation which has for its object to relieve j of a disease so terrible as that of a stone in the bladder, can be always free , n\ venience, and difficulty, and danger. Nevertheless, from what experience 1 liav ' j am satisfied that the operation of lithotrity, if had recourse to only in Pr°Per *■ not only much more successful than that of lithotomy, but that it is liable objections than almost any other of the principal operations of Surgery. (P- ^ ^ ; objections than almost any other of the principal operations —ov , ,1.. a « The operation of lithotrity,” says Liston (a), “ is applicable to patients above of puberty, when the symptoms have not endured very long; when the foreign^ ^ of puberty, when the symptoms nave not enaureu very ioug, » ° ches ascertained to measure six or seven lines, or even more perhaps, say as large « nut; when the bladder and urethra are in a tolerably healthy and normal con as indicated by the power to retain the urine comfortably for several hours, a r- (a) Practical Surgery.629 LITHOTOMY AND LITHOTRITY. t it in a tolerably free stream; and when the viscus admits of injection and a careful ex- ■){* ploration. That the stone may be seized readily, and acted upon without danger to the 1 -■ lining membrane, the bladder should contain at least five or six ounces of fluid.” lining membrane, (pp. 500, 501.) “When the stone is much larger than above indicated, and when there is reason to suspect that the bladder, in consequence of the endurance of the irritation, has become contracted, fasciculated and irregular on the surface, presenting the rudiments of pouches, it will be absolutely impossible to make sure of removing all the detritus. , Nuclei must be left, and very shortly the patient will have five or six stones perhaps lit substituted for the original one formed upon these. The suffering and danger, more- * over, endured by the patient at each sitting, when these are often repeated, in an un- ; sound bladder, for removal of the fragments of a large concretion, are much greater 1 than those resulting from a speedy and well-conducted safe operation for its removal 13ntire and at once. When lithotomy is well performed, the excited state of the bladder fi s relieved by the removal of all source of irritation, by the viscus being put at rest, and ot ts functions suspended, and by the loss of blood from the neighbouring vessels. In fe ithotrity, on the other hand, when the stone is large, considerable fragments are often ia eft, and the irritation is thus greatly increased. The pain experienced in passing rai fragments, is often extreme, and not unattended with danger; for difficulty is often ex- ch oerienced in dislodging portions from the urethra. Then retention follows, perhaps with inflammation of the bladder. * * * Blood too is often lodged in the bladder ms■ rod removed with difficulty. The excited action which follows is perhaps at first slow • ind weak, but it soon becomes lighted up by the continued irritation resulting from the frequent contraction of the viscus, and contact with the angular pieces of the concretion. Jnless a very correct judgment is exercised in determining upon the practice in parti- ;ular cases, and great gentleness observed in the manipulations, fatal results must verv lot >ften follow. J P “ The operation of lithotomy must yet continue to be performed on children, and on to hose of mature age who are so ill informed or foolish as to permit the stone to attain ii< in inordinate bulk. * * * Of late years, in point of fact, I have scarcely been b •bilged to have recourse to lithotomy at all in private practice. At the hospital pa- ( ients yet present themselves with large stones and bad bladders. Then lithotomy is I >oth a less painful and much more safe operation, as already propounded. During the r ; uo uu ptupuuuucu. UUTlDe 1116 ' *niod of the last six years, twenty-four patients have been cut, and all have recovered ! Flfchnnt {IPblflont • f Vi oco notlontc liOTrn Vinn., <->11 C j I • l . j ; j uct,u tut, ana an nave recoverea Ji! Fithout accident; these patients have been of all ages, from two to eighty years, and some r: them not over favourable subjects. So that, after all, there is not much to find fault nth as regards this ‘ cruel and bloody operation,’ when carefully set about.” (p. 503-505 ) ! I do not propose to offer any opinion of my own as to the preference which should be s warded to lithotnty, or lithotomy, as I have had little practical experience in regard it o the former, and am not therefore qualified to give one. But I may be permitted to n. ay that the results of the practice of lithotomy, both with gorget and knife and by N anous operators on patients of all ages and under various circumstances, during the > ourse of a long series of years at our Hospital, have been so favourable, as to afford I -ttle cause for making it give place to lithotrity. I think it is proved that lithotomy q men properly conducted, is not the dangerous operation it is too commonly held to be- na it is no trifling advantage it possesses, that the patient is relieved at once with a ® .wlTf suffer‘n& sharP ]Ild«'d it must be acknowledged to be, instead of being a r-ir? °pe?tK-nS’ whlch’ the more frequent in their repetition, become, as ' adm'tted, greater in severity, and occasionally leave the necessity for resort n- • ;‘b«cure by Bthotomy. I may also here add the testimony of some patiente who havf | ity fndftat k opeFatlons> that the suffering during lithotomy was less than in litho- ; w’n ^at kn0TirJg botb’ th7 would> lf needful, prefer undergoing the former. It danger as ' oSKdS.'61^0"8 °f Hth0trity t0 lithotomy- the Allowing writers, may also be BtANDIN. Velpeau in Doubovitzki. ” ATTMANN. Becker. Sulla Cistotomia e Litotrizia. Pavia, 1839. N°> homas, M.D., Lithotrity and Lithotomy compared. Ixmdon, 1832. 8vo.V.—OF STONE IN THE URETHRA. ( Calculus Urethralis, Lat.; Steine in der Harnrdhre, Germ.; Calcul dans lc Canal de l' Uretre, Fr.) 2139. Stones which enter the canal of the urethra, as well as foreigi.. bodies which have been introduced from without, may be fixed at differen parts, may more or less hinder, or entirely prevent (1), the flow of urine and cause inflammation of the urethra and of the whole penis, ulceration and gangrene of the urethra, urinary infiltrations,-fistulas, and the like If the stone or foreign body be angular or pointed, the earlier will the* symptoms be produced (2). [(1) A stone may sometimes exist for some time in the urethra, and prevent the flowo urine by the stream forcing it tightly into the front of that canal, which is too narrow to permit its escape. An instance of this kind occurred to Travers in 1829, in a mat., of sixty years, under his care in St. Thomas’s Hospital; he had been in the habit o passing small stones from childhood, during which he had been cut by the elder Clint for stone in the bladder, and, when fifteen years old, a stone blocking up the urethra immediately in front of the scrotum, had been cut upon and removed, but left a fistulou: aperture. When he came under Travers’s care, he had a stone about four inch« down the urethra, and this, when desirous of making water, he pushed, back towardr the fistulous opening, so that there was then room for its passage. At night his urine- constantly dribbled away. This stone was removed by cutting through the fistula into the urethra, and lifting it out with a scoop. The aperture, however, did not perfectly heal (a). . A good example of retention and consequent mortification from the complete blocking up of the urethra by a stone, is Everard Home’s case in the College Collec-.- tion (b), of two stones from a man of sixty years old:—“ The larger calculus was situate® in the membranous part of the urethra, the smaller about three inches from the external orifice, the urethra being dilated into a cyst at each of these parts. The patient sup- posed himself to have laboured under strictures of the urethra for ten years! at last: there was complete retention of urine; the urine became effused behind the smaller*' calculus, and mortification of the skin of the penis and scrotum took place to consider-. able extent, and the man died.” (p. 121.) „ . , , , (2) A curious instance is recorded by Liston (c), of a person who, when a boy, Mail pushed a small brass curtain-ring over the penis till stopped by the scrotum, in 1 prevent the urine passing off during the night. The swelling that ensued preveutefl i removal; he kept the occurrence secret; the tumefaction gradually abated, and me. ring disappeared. But the hardened mass which remained increased in size ; andl«-> terly the functions of the parts, which had previously been very well performed, MgMj to be disturbed. The foreign body was cut upon and removed,” by Liston, “ when me man was approaching fifty years of age.” On making a section of it, the greater par of the ring was found forming the nucleus. The continuity of the erectile *1SSU*> * \ had been cut through gradually by the foreign body, was perfectly reestablish , (p. 520.)] ... J 2140. If the stone lodge in the neck of the bladder, it will, if ’ produce only the common symptoms of stone in the bladder, but if it 1 large, it will cause more or less complete retention, and if angular and not completely enclosed by the neck of the bladder, incontinence o urine. The patient usually suffers urgent pain, a sensation of weight and-' pressure in the perineeum and rectum, and a constant burning m ’ urethra, especially at the glans. A stone of any considerable size may distinguished by the finger in the rectum, but most certainly by a meta sound introduced into the urethra, which is either stopped by the ston > or passes near it into the bladder. 2141. If it be not possible, after the previous enlargement urethra with large bougies passed down to the stone, to grasp of the it with . (a) Clark’s Case Book. (ft) Taylor’s Catalogue. (c) Practical Surgery.631 STONE IN THE URETHRA; TREATMENT. it Hunter’s or Cooper’s forceps, or Civiale’s instrument, in doing ,1 which, the introduction of one or two fingers into the rectum, so as to S press against the stone, prevents its being pushed back into the bladder, iff md then extract or thrust it back into the bladder, {par. 2052,) it must be removed by a cut. If a staff can be introduced close to the stone, into the ? bladder, a cut must then be made, as in the lateral operation, into the prostate and part of the neck of the bladder, its situation ascertained by die finger, and the size of the cut increased as may be necessary. The s staff must now be removed, and with the finger passed into the rectum, it sf must be attempted to press the stone out, or at least prevent it getting i oack into the bladder, so that it may be removed with the forceps, or with o. i scoop. If the staff cannot be passed into the bladder, it must be carried i town to the stone, the membranous part of the urethra opened upon it, and wa director tried to be passed into the bladder, upon which its neck is to be d nifficiently cut into. If the staff cannot be introduced into the bladder, its i meek must be divided up to the stone, which must be pressed up from the mrectum, and even cut upon. After the removal of the stone, the finger ■for the sound should always be passed into the neck and body of the sbbladder, to ascertain whether there be any stones remaining. tub If, during the examination with the sound, the stone be forced back into the bladder, 3i t must be crushed. [When a stone is found lodged in the urethra, and more especially if it be far down | hat canal, the greatest care must be taken that it be neither pushed back by the sound, if!nor allowed to slip back in the handling; as if this happen, it will be necessary either r io cut into the bladder, or to attempt crushing, as Chelius recommends, which places 1 :he patient unnecessarily in a very unsatisfactory condition.—J. F. S.] 2142. If the stone lodge in the membranous part of the urethra, it i may increase on account of the yielding of the urethral wall, and easily a lestroy it by ulceration and fistulous openings. If the stone cannot be ^removed by the use of lukewarm baths, by the gradual enlargement of '.5 -he urethra with bougies, by gentle pressure, or by the already-mentioned i orceps, it must be taken out by a cut, in which case the stone should be stressed against the perinceum by the finger in the rectum, and then cut upon in an oblique direction, from the raphe to the ischial tuberosity. | ^er the removal of the stone, a thick elastic catheter should be intro- foiuced into the bladder and the wound closed with sticking plaster. I 2143. If the stone be situated in the spongy part of the urethra, it may snost commonly be got rid of by the use of soothing baths, by the enlarge- ment of the urethra, by pressing it forwards, or by means of the forceps : dready mentioned, or by a loop of wire. If these means be ineffectual, >r the symptoms urgent, a cut must be made on the stone, which should mm.fixed with the fingers of the left hand, and then pulled out; after ! ' nch a catheter is to be introduced, and the wound carefully closed. If !*.. 8tone have been long retained, and the walls of the urethra be much i distended and changed, an incurable fistula very easily occurs. If the '■ ’•-ut be requisite in the region of the scrotum, which should be carefully ^avoided for fear of urinary infiltration, it must be made through the skin na e tight, but not dragged out of place, sufficiently behind, and care H tv C^Ue Passaoe °fi the urine by the inlying of a catheter. t ‘ the stone be stopped in the fossa navicularis, and cannot be 6C °n account °f the narrowness of the orifice of the urethra, the rihce must be slit towards the framum.632 URINARY STONES EXTERNAL TO THE URINARY PASSAGE. In rare cases the whole urethra has been so filled with stones up to its mouth, tb even the smallest sound could not he introduced. Under these circumstances the ureth must be opened at several parts, and if vesical stones be present, a cut made even iu the bladder itself (a). [If a stone be anywhere in front of the scrotum, it can most commonly, and should extracted without cutting; for, as Liston very justly observes, “ owing to the thinne of the coverings, it will be found a most difficult matter to close entirely any openii anterior to the scrotum.” (p. 520.) I have frequently succeeded, by following the advice the younger Cline, in getting out a stone so lodged, though at first the attempt seem very unpromising, by a very simple contrivance, but persevered in with patience. Tl. consists, in first nipping the urethra tightly behind the stone, so as to prevent it slippii backwards, and then introducing an eyed probe, with its eyed end a little bent, so to form a sort of spoon or loop; it is to be gently insinuated between the wall of t! urethra and the stone, till its point have got completely behind the latter. Then pressii the stone forwards with the thumb and finger, which grasps the urethra, the probe gently and by little jerks to be drawn forwards, bringing with it the stone, which to be closely followed with the thumb and finger of the other hand. By thus proceed ing with patience, the stone is after some time brought up to the glans, and if the lijljf of the urethra be there too narrow to allow its passage, the urethra may be cut throug by the side of the frcenum with a lancet, and the stone is immediately set free. Should I meet with a case of this kind in which I was foiled, I am inclined to thin that, rather than cut on the stone from without, I should pass a phimosis-knife don the urethra to the stone, and cut through its lining membrane into the spongy bod of the penis sufficiently to enable the stone to move forwards, running the risk of infi tration of urine, which I should not much dread, by passing a catheter occasionall during the day to draw off the urine, or leaving it in, so that the water might flo away constantly. If infiltration did not ensue, there would probably be some temporal, narrowing of the urethra, which might be cured by perseverance in the use of bougie: Anything is better than an urinary fistula, which becomes the more serious in propo: tion as the urethra is opened near the front of the scrotum, in consequence of the read, ness with which the urine will escape into the loose cellular tissue of that part, causin troublesome abscesses and even gangrene.—J. F. S.] VI.—OF URINARY STONES EXTERNAL TO THE URINARY PASSAGE. 2145. Stones which are found external to the urethra, in the neighbour ing cellular tissue of the perinceum, ( perinceal stories,') or in the scrotum (,scrotal stones,) are either such as have been deposited in the cellulal tissue by the destruction of the walls of the urethra, and have grown by the continual deposition of the phosphates, or have been produced by thfl penetration of the urine into clefts of the urethra, into fistulas, wounds, am the like, into the cellular tissue itself. If the urine penetrate into severa spaces of the cellular tissue, several stones may be formed at the samw time. Such stones are easily distinguished by hard, nearly painless-^ frequently very large, swelling; often by the introduction of a sounc into the urethra, when they partially project into it. They frequent!} i cause suppuration and fistulous passages, through which a metal souni easily finds the stone. They are not rarely discharged by suppuration in consequence of which incurable fistulas remain, if the wall of the *| urethra have been destroyed to any great extent (1). By the destruction of the walls of the vagina in women, and of the rectum in men’ll vesical stones may lodge in these cavities and be discharged. _ , ^ I [(1) A very remarkable instance of a large collection of perinxal stones occurrefll Vincent (h) in St. Bartholomew’s Hospital in 1843. A young man, twenty-three y j of age, suffered from incontinence of urine during the ten previous years,m I quence of having received at that time a kick on the penis from a horse; for this M^ constantly worn a yoke. Four years after he had bleeding from the urethra, wine • , followed by a swelling behind the scrotum, and this, at the period of his admission, n (а) Ki.ein, in Ncuen Chiron., vol. i. p. 78. (б) Tavlok’s Catalogue of Calculi, above quoted. Appendix. J. * u ee. v eL'S J 4 Br633 PEOSTATAL STONES. ■acquired the size of a goose’s egg. Upon this Vincent cut, “and gave exit to a *■ hundred and forty-six calculi of various figures and sizes, the largest being about the I ,ize 0f a horse bean. After the pouch had been emptied, there were several in that ISrort of the urethra next the bladder which were removed, and two of the number came i-n-ay the next day. The cyst consisted of a dense and tough membrane like parchment, [t communicated with the urethra its whole length, and graduated into it, so as to offer I 10 abrupt nor partial connexion with it, and appeared to be formed by its dilatation. After the operation the patient retained his urine, passing it voluntarily through the wound. The stones consist of the fusible compound mixed with thin alternate layers , >f urate of ammonia, which are more abundant at the centre of each calculus; the irate, however, does not constitute a distinct nucleus.” (pp. 137, 38.) In the College Collection there is also another very curious case of Vincent’s:— i1 Numerous small calculi, which with about two hundred others, were removed from letween the prepuce and glans penis of a very old man. The patient had congenital i ihimosis, the orifice of the urethra scarcely admitting the introduction of a common . irobe. From the presence of the calculi, the prepuce was distended to the size, of a ! arge pullet’s egg, and retention of urine was finally produced. On dividing the pre- nice, oue of the calculi was found completely blocking up the orifice of the urethra. The glans penis was in a state of ulceration, and a large portion of its substance had been I ibsorbed. The patient had, during many years, occasionally experienced great pain [and difficulty in making water, and latterly he had a constant stillicidium. The calculi W ire composed principally of the fusible compound ; most of them have a small nucleus 0; f uric acid; their external surface is varnished over with urate of ammonia. From jfitihe composition of the nucleus, there can be no doubt but that the greater number of i it iese calculi had passed from the urethra into the sac of the prepuce; and their irregular la. >rm and close adaptation to each other, proves that in this situation they had increased teionsiderably in size by the deposition of the earthy phosphates.” (pp. 39, 40.)] } 2146. These stones may be removed by sufficiently cutting on the > arts containing them ; and if the stone be in the perinceum and deeply .bodged, attempts should be made from the rectum to press it through. If feie cavity in which the stone lies, be very large and hardened, it may j»;e advisable to remove part of its walls. The after-treatment must rt e conducted according to the rules laid down for urinary fistula, n Further notice of this subject may be found in l Louis, Me moire sur les Pierres hors des voies naturelles de l’urine; in Mem. de ./ Acad, de Chirurg., vol. iii. p. 332. : Ilse ; in Medical Observations and Inquii-ies, vol. v. p. 336. i Walther; in Salzburg Med.-chir. Zeitung, vol. ii. p. 253. 1812. i! Keein; in neuen Chiron, vol. i. p. 16. :■ Graefe, Ueber Scrotal-Steine; in his Journal fur Chirurgie und Augenheilkunde, [ mol. iii. pt. iii. p. 400—pt. iv. p. 695. B! Chelius, Ueber Scrotal-Steine; in Heidelb. Med. Annalen, vol. i. pt. i. [VII.—OF PEOSTATAL STONES. ff ■ Stone is occasionally formed in the prostate gland. This, “though "hot of urinary origin,” remarks Prout (a), “ is very liable to be mistaken 9; >r such, from the situation in which it is formed. Of this there seems to |?e two varieties. The first variety is usually formed in the natural Mivities of the gland before it becomes much disorganized. They are ■enerally small, and more or less rounded in shape, and of a yellowish- 1 :rown colour. The second variety seems to be generally found in roscesses of that gland, where they are sometimes met with in great 9 umbers. These are usually of much larger size than the first variety, and I' ave a h’gMy polished porcelainous appearance. The composition, how- J ver> of both varieties is essentially the same ; that is to say, they consist (n) Inquiry above cited.634 PllOSTATAL STONES. chiefly of the phosphate of lime; a substance which appears to be neve c deposited in an unmixed state by the urine. Hence the prostata | calculi can be always readily distinguished from those of urinary origin. < (p. 94.) Astrey Cooper (a) says, the largest he has seen “ are not bigger than a pea, and they seldom are so large but their numbers are sometime very considerable.” (p. 295.) In a preparation of this disease in S' Thomas’s Museum, the prostate is studded with little stones like pins, heads of various size. Astley Cooper mentions, that in a case unde; his care, “ these calculi had produced not only painful feelings in th i perinceutn, but a degree of irritation which kept the patient in continue* i mental excitement bordering on insanity.” (p. 296.) They are usuallli accompanied with difficulty in passing the water; may be felt as th. catheter passes over them into the bladder, and by the introduction c the finger into the rectum. These prostatal stones must be removed by cutting through the perr nceum into the prostate gland, and picking them out. [I am doubtful whether the following is to be considered as a prostatal stone, c merely a stone encysted close to the gland, but it has much practical interest, and ma be conveniently mentioned here. A man about middle age applied several years sino to my friend Green, labouring under symptoms of stone in the bladder. He ws< sounded, and a stone felt but obscurely; he was sounded again at some interval, an; with the same result; the operation was therefore deferred, and a few months after b > died of some other complaint. On examination no stone was found in the bladdei? although sounding immediately before had given the same indistinct sensation. Th bladder, penis, and neighbouring parts were therefore removed for closer inspection, an. it was then found that there was a long narrow stone embedded in a cyst before an. below, but in such way that had the lateral operation been performed, and the prostat; divided in the usual way, the forceps would probably have entered the bladder withou detecting the stone in their passage, and consequently the operator would have had thu vexation of supposing the patient had been operated on without really having a stonat although as the sound passed over it had received the indistinct impression before mer tioned.—J. F. S.] Note on Constitutional Stone-Solvents. I have to thank my friend Travers for the following interesting case which feK under his own immediate observation, and which is the best authenticated througbou of any case 1 have heard of. The fragments of the stone are in his possession. ■ A tailor who had long laboured under symptoms of stone was sounded D Travers a few years since, who detected a hard calculus of some size, and counsel la immediate operation. The man being afraid to incur the risk of the proceeding, pa himself under the care of a person at Henley-in-Arden, who administered a consti tion water to the extent of two or three pints per diem. _ . • ■ The patient soon began to pass fragments in quantity, as after the operation <> breaking, the act being attended with acute pain, both before and during rmeturxtio 1 The pain and discharge of fragments continued for many months; both subsided last and at the same time. The patient on one occasion shewed him a box full fragments, for the most part reduced to a powder. This man was examined after death by Dr. Charles of Putney, and no trac™ of stone was discovered in the bladder. -.i Dr. Prout stated the basis of the “ drink” to be carbonate of soda and potass, w a little nitre, in the following proportions Sod® carb. Potass, carb. nitrat. gr. x. gr. viij. Sr> 'j- (a) Surgical Lectures, vol. ii«[ 635 ] 3 STATISTICAL ACCOUNT OF THE OPERATIONS FOR THE STONE IN ST. THOMAS’S HOSPITAL, from 1800 to 1846. The following is the account of operations for the stone which have been performed i St. Thomas’s Hospital since 1800 ; and I have to thank my friend Nash for the kind sslstance he has rendered me from the steward’s office books, which unhappily are, nth but few exceptions, the only records kept before 1820. I have also used Green’s ase-books, some of which are missing, Clark’s, and my own books, the ward books, nd the Lancet, from which I have derived great assistance. In the first table are the gross number of cases operated on in each year. In the ;cond table I have given the dates and the results, with the circumstances of the cases •here important, as far as I have been able to obtain them. I am sorry, however, iat the reports are so meagre, but still they are highly important, as showing that the iteral operation is neither so dangerous, nor so much to be dreaded, if the after-treat- lent be well attended to; and also that the cutting gorget does not deserve the obloquy hich of late years it has been the fashion so freely to heap upon it. In the cases recorded in the second table, the gorget was always used by the elder 'ravers, Green, Mackmurdo, the younger Travers, and myself; Tvrrell, Solly, ad Clark operated with Blizard’s knife, its beak, however, being straight. TABLE I. Gross Number of Operations for the Stone, from 1800 to 1S46. ! 1801 12 1813 7 1825 4 1837 10 1802 12 1814 2 1826 5 1838 7 1803 1 1815 8 1827 7 1839 1 1804 6 1816 5 1828 13 1840 7 1805 11 1817 2 1829 9 1841 6 1806 4 1818 7 1830 10 1842 4 1807 n O 1819 8 1831 6 1843 7 1808 11 1820 8 1832 4 1844 6 1809 4 1821 4 1833 5 1845 2 1810 2 1822 7 1834 5 1811 15 1823 11 1835 5 295 1812 4 1824 10 1836 8 TABLE II. The Initials under the Surgeon’s column mark the operator. Up to 1837, the elder 'ravers, Green, and Tyrrell, alone operated; but in that year, whilst Assistant argeon, was my first operation. After the retirement of Travers, and my appoint- ient as Surgeon, in 1841, Mackmurdo, Solly, and the younger Travers, became Assistants; and on the death of Tyurel, in 1843, Mackmurdo took his place, and 'Lark became junior Assistant. This notice is necessary, as a key to the Table. Age. ^Admitted. Cut. Cured. Surgeon. Remarks. 1822. »(Seven.) 1 Townrow . . S'td Book). . May 30 June 7 July 4 • G. f eth Dunthorrie Itfd Book). • June 6 July 12 Aug, 22 • O. • M Brown . . . >rd Book). • Aug. 1 Aug. 23 Sept. 26 • G- • ds Johnson , , 5>rd Book). 00 • Aug. 24 Oct. 15 Nov. 12 * G. * Steward’s report in Table I.STATISTICAL ACCOUNT OF 636 Age. Admitted. Cut. Cured. Surgeon. 1323. (Eleven.) Tr. Henry Hide .... (Lane. vol. i.) 6 Oct. 30 Nov. 7 Dec. 13 * • John Catt (Lane. vol. i.) 39 Nov. 22 Nov. 28 Dec. 22 Tr. • * • James Connor . . . (Ward Book.) 00 1324. « Sept. 4 * Jan." 4, 1824. * G. • * A Boy (Lane. vol. ii.) 3 • Feb.13 • • • Tyrr. • William Hart • . . (Ward Book). * April 28 May 21 July 13 * G. • Henry Prince . . . (Lane. vol. ii.) 3 Nov. 4, 1823. Mar. 12 April 29 Tr. James Wood • (Lane. vol. iii.) 64 April 8 April 23 June 3 • Tyrr. Richard Stevens . . (Lane. vol. iii.) 4 Feb. 16 April 23 June 7 • Tyrr. William Hart . . . (Ward Book.-Lano. vol. iii.) 31 April 28, 1823. May 21 July 15 G. ' A man ...... (Lane. vol. iii.) • • May 28 • • Tyrr. William Padyham. . (Lane. vol. iv.) • Aug. 16 Aug. 27 • * Tyrr. William Dean . . . (Ward Book). • Oct. 7 Oct. 22 Nov. 28 G. * A man (Lane. vol. v.) 1825. * * Dec. # Tyrr. James Conner . . . (Lane., vol. vi.) (see 1823.) 4 Feb. 10 Feb. 26 Mar. 23 G. • Samuel Sparkes. . • (Green's Book.) William Dean. . . • (Green’s Book.) (see 1824.) 7 Aug. 3 Aug. 9 Sept. 12 G. • 43 Oct. 4 Oct. 14 Feb. 2 <, 1826 G. (Lane., vol. ix.) 7 Nov. 3 Nov. 11 Dec. 15 Tr. ' • • (a) The name* of the remain -'4s Ib'mark: Ml Stone as large as pi \ Stone rather la I crown-piece, not i Uric acid. Had s i ing on same eve*4 was soon stanch? .«3i Two stones remove* ■ Stone not found at but afterward* ii | the floor, size of oblong. Soon al j mission a small extracted from c num. After scess formed behir | which was open© days after anotl phosphate stonerj! moved from this;^ urethra. Severe | of stone conti child was soon felt and the op formed as above s- -j Stone very soft, and(■ in its extractiocjl stones had been HI from the urethra following his adn j Stone, size of an aln 2 the shell on; soft >" at one point j* •»! tion broken off i> I traction. Operated on in 1823- stone, inch long, wide. Flattened ronnd stov inches around, rou Ilad been cut in Oc stone broke in pre ration; ® on second and tint Stone large : had s» fifth day. ing patients cannot be ascertained : but the report in Table !• total number is obtained from the-OPERATIONS FOR THE STONE. 637 I Age. Admitted Cut. Cured. Surgeon. Remarks. 12 Feb. 23 Mar. 3 April 24 # G. . Oxalate of lime. 2i June 1 June 2 June 29 Tr. • • • Size of sparrow’s egg. 17 June 29 July 3 Aug. 9 G. Size of walnut. In same evening patient attacked with great pain in abdo- men, with high excitement; arising from accumulation of urine, from closure of wound; a catheter passed through it, and symptoms ceased, but required to be passed next day; no fur- ther trouble. 17 July 8 July 21 Aug. 25 * * Tyrr. * Stone size of horse chestnut; flattened, and rough. 7 Nov. 25 Nov. 25 Jan. 25 G. Stone as big as top of little finger, and grape shaped, in bulb of urethra, causing retention of urine ; removed by cut in perinceum, He had been repeatedly sound- 66 Feb. 15 Feb. 22 April 3 G. • ed, but the stone never felt. 9 Mar. 8 Mar. 16 May 17 • G. • • 81 June 8 June 22 M Tr. • Stone size of a pigeon’s egg immediately, after which, with much difficulty, a second as large as a pullet’s egg; much venous bleeding at operation; on third day powers failed, and died on fourth. Large stone in right ureter, and same kid- ney wasted; bladder much thickened, with spots of ulceration; prostate en- larged, and almost cartila- 23 Aug. 8 Aug. 10 Sept. 11 . G. • ginous. H Aug. 25 Aug. 25 Sept. 4 , G. . Stone oval; flattened, size of a shilling, rough; oxalate of lime. 9 Sept. 19 Sept. 27 Nov. 15 • G. * 4 Nov. 29 Dec. 7 Jan. 3, 1828. Tr. • • * Stone as large as hazel-nut. 2 Feb. 28 Mar. 7 April 10 • G. • • Stone size of a horse bean. 25 April 9 April 18 June 14 Tr. Stone size of a pullet's egg, rough; considerable bleed- ing some hours after; stopped by pressure. Much constitutional excitement, and sickness for first five days. 2* April 26 • May 8 Tr. • • • 4 Aug. 4 Oct. 2 Tyrr. First division of prostate not sufficient, therefore a second; stone small and oblong; seized with diffi- culty, as lodged behind a fold of bladder, and lying behind and below left of prostate. 6 Aug. 14 Aug. 19 Oct. 2 * G. • * Stone large and irregular. 21 Sept. 4 • Nov. 6 • G. • • Stone of large size. Died, [a] June 25, 1827.STATISTICAL ACCOUNT OF 633 Age. ^Admitted] Cut. Cured. Surgeons. 1828—continued. Thomas Gash. . . . 4 Oct. 1 Nov. 20 G. (Steward’s book.) William Shaw. . . . 7 Oct. 12 Dec. 25 G. (Steward’s book.) Edward Harrison . . 9 Oct. 18 Oct. 24 Jan; 22, G. (Lane., 1828-29; vol. i.) 1829. George Hull . . . . 17 Nov. 27 . Feb.24, . G. • (Steward’s book.) 1829. John Hunt Dec. 15 Feb. 7, . • Tyrr. (Steward’s book.) "William Dean. . . . Dec. 12 Mar. 7 1829. [«] . G. . (St. Thos. Med. Soc. M in ute-book.) 1827. (see 1824-25. 1829. Henry Kate .... 62 Jan. 9 Feb. 30 m . G. • . (Lane., 1828-29; vol. i.) William Hoy. . . . 10 Jan. 13 Feb. 20 Mar. 23 Tyrr. (Lane., 1828-29; vol. i.) Thomas Kittam. . . 62 Feb. 26 Mar. 6 April 30 • • Tyrr. • (Lane., 1828-29; vol. i.) William Curtis . . . 23 May 14 May 22 Aug. 6 • G. • • (Lane., 1828-29; vol. ii.) William Kemp. . . 10 June 16 June 26 June 24 Tyrr. (Lane., 1828-29; vol. ii.) Aug. 6 William Figg. . . . 12 June 25 July 16 • G. • • (Lane., 1828-29 ; vol. ii.) G. John Holden .... 73 Oct. 22 Nov. 6 Dec. 17 . • * (Green's book.) Henry Jells 12 Oct. 22 Oct. 30 Jan. 7, . G. • (Green's book.) 1830. Henry Moffett . . • 60 Dec. 3 Dec. 18 Jan.14, Tr. . . • (Clark’s book.) 1830. Remarks. | Stone large. Att* peritonitis on tea Third operation, u Green’s advice; on inner side of t difficulty in ii gorget, on acconM ness of pro* broken to piece moved piecemetr cleus remained, i sary to enlarge w straight knife, tb and extracted in tr operation forty n Two stones; first size; second pieces, partially; with scoop, and * by injecting war patient much exl Stone of large size. Stone large, oval, flat above 3ij.ss. S operation bleed- pint; stopped b\ Stone circular and inch and half in half-inch thick r two processes sit pair of horns, ei naif an inch long, at first passed o on whicn they g" did not find it in was lodged in a c anterior part of gland, commuH urethra. Large oblong stont long. Stone shape of flat j. Has frequently voi« as pin s-head ston size of a pe***- smooth, with so* which crumbled. Stone round, a* " walnut, tul>erculi alate of lime. Has occAsion.llvj* stones from had a stone extra bladder before then a stone rem< urelhra by Cline small fistulous • junction of pe*u ' ll/m, and stone fu down ; removed • uric acid. Vied, [a] March 11,1828. [6] March 2,1829.639 OPERATIONS FOR THE STONE. si*** mmtmm* 529-30 ; *k.) ok.) pn. . per . <*•) {,! . . . J. !er. . . if* • • • .nam . . Age. Admitted. Cut. Cured. Surgeon. 66 Jan. 13 Jan. 26 April 15 Tyrr. . 4 55 Jan. 28 Mar. 25 Feb. 5 April 1 Mar. 11 May 13 • G. Tyrr. • 14 Mar. 25 April 5 Oct. 7 • G. ■ • PM'ry Hurt i* Bfv. . . . ‘nil an 'ied. [fl] Remarks. Nothing particular. No difficulty in operation, but size of stone not mentioned. Not more than four ounces of blood lost at operation ; but an hour after he became pallid, faint, and cold; in evening pulse very small and quick, and very restless ; ammonia and opium given, which were soon rejected, but solid opium retained. During night he sunk still more, and on following morning the pulse was scarcely perceptible ; countenance cadaverous; thirst extreme ; brandy then given, but thrown up, but ammonia with lemon juice retained, and gin every four hours. On third day was better, and siekness subsiding; port wine given. On fourth day re-ac- tion had taken place, and he had great tenderness of the lower part of the belly; castor oil ordered, and repeated in evening, and hot poultices to the belly. In the course of the night the bowels were freely opened, andhe was much better on the fifth day. The wound was still pale, but the urine flowed freely through it; on each side of the raphe a dark purple spot; was allowed a chop and porter and eggs. On sixth day had pain in perinceum ; and on same evening became suddenly faint, the limbs thrown forcibly out, and he appeared dying, but recovered by sprinkling with cold water. On ninth day quinine ordered ; on twelfth day pus discharged from the wound ; and on fifteenth a considerable slough removed, after which half a pint of pus discharged. From this time he gradually improved. April 6 April 14 June 4 66 May 27 at operation ; wound attacked with erysipe June 10 M G. Stone size of filbert; uric acid. Moderate-sized stone ; super- ficial perinseal artery tied . — I —J-J-Aas on tenth day, probably caught from patient near him, which extended to thighs ; slough on buttock; cellular tissue on one side of scrotum sloughy; no peritonseal inflammation nor other internal mischief. 59 4 14 9 21 4 56 32 5 45 July 22 Aug. 24 Oct. 28 Jan. 25 Feb. 3 Feb. 15 Feb. 21 Nov. 8 Feb. 23 May 2 July 29 Aug. 31 Nov. 5 Feb. 1 Feb. 17 Feb. 25 Feb. 28 Nov. 12 Mar. 2 May 22 Sept. 9 Oct. 7 Dec. 23 April 14 Mar. 24 Mar. 14 Mar. 21 Dec. 18 April 12 July 5 G. G. G. Stone large as crown piece, homs^'effectual>*e<i fr6ely’ antl tie<i at once> but not efficient, and therefore'press’ure for four Tyrr. Tyrr. Tyrr. Tyrr. Stone large. Oxalate of lime. Small flat stone, uric acid ; at- tacked with peritonitis on sixth day. 19 July 2 July 13 Aug. 18 Tyrr. 26 Aug. 2 Oct. 26 Nov. 29 • G. 36 Feb. 28 April 12 July 5 [6] * G. 15 June 13 Aug. 6 G. 63 Sept. 19 Oct. 4 M Tr. 3 Oct. 2 Oct. 11 Nov. 22 G. • 1* Nov. 19 Dec. 6 Jan. 24, 1834. • G. 55 Mar. 14 April 4 M • G. • 60 Mar. 27 April 4 M , G. • Aug. 22 • Sept. 4 • G. • Weight, 3j. gr. xi. Nucleus, urate of ammonia j the remainder uric acid, with traces of lime. Weight, 3iv. Uric acid, with a nucleus of oxalate of lime. Weight,3iij.gr. xxii.; plios- "lii phate of lime. June 21,1830. [6] April 13, 1833. [c] Nov. 10 [d] April 7. [c] April 14STATISTICAL ACCOUNT OF 640 1834—continued. William Roderick. . William Thomas . . 1835. John Symons. John Medden. . Abraham James. John Wakefield. Richard Beet . . . 1836. Andrew Martin. . Thomas Popkins . Joseph Anderson . William Garland . Hazael Weble. . . Robert Weddon. . Robert Taunton. . George Adams . . 1837. Felix Aug.Davenport William Stokes. . George Lucas. . . Age. Admitted. Cut. Cured. Surgeons. 12 Oct. 28 Nov. 7 Dec. 18 G. . . 12* Oct. 30 Nov. 7 Dec. 18 • G. • * 14 Jan. 1 Jan. 16 Feb. 19 • G. • • 4 Feb. 17 Feb. 27 April 13 Tr. G. . , 2i May 22 July 3 Aug. 9 • * * 4 July 21 July 31 Sept. 4 G. 32 Nov. 25 Dec. 11 April 22, Tyrr. 1836. 5 Dec. 15, Jan. 29 Mar. 11 G. • • 12 1835. Sept. 17, Feb.12 Mar. 31 . . Tyrr. . 2* 1835. Mar. 24 April 2 May 11 . G. Tyrr. . 4 July 26 Aug. Sept. 17 • * • 4 Aug. 25 Sept. 23 Oct. 25 Tr. G. * • 2* Nov. 2 Dec. 9 .Tan. 24, • • • 1837. G. 10 Nov. 7 Dec. 9 Jan. 24, • • • 1837. 5 Nov. 24 Dec- 9 Mar.ll, G. . 1837. 12 Nov. 8, Jan. 20 Feb. 22 1836. 2 Feb. 21 Feb. 25 M „ 19 Jan. 19 Feb. 3 Mar. 9 Tr. Willi lltuispctl CUi. wjawtia wa ~ ' and three hours after, soon stopped by pressure. Rema Stone broken analyzed. j Weight 3j. 9!h cleusuricaci. a layer of oxalate of 1 crust urate o Weight, 3ij. Oxalate of li of uric acid c. Weight, 3ij. 9 uric acid, ? covering of fusible calc- crust of phot with traces o* Weight, 3v. g cleus and ne consisting a lime; the r sible calculus Weight, 3ij. gr oxide. These last four years are from the Steward’s book. . Tyrr. South. Stone weighed 5 pure oxalate of Henry Peveril) . . . James Row. . . . William Perry . . . Henry Turner . . . William Sheldrake . John Hawes . . . . John Pratt 71 June 1 June 24 • • South. 3 Nov. 22, Jane 2 July 2 . G. - . 1836. 2} June 20 Sept. 2 Sept. 23 . G. . • 2* Aug. 18 Sept. 2 Sept. 25 • G. • • 57 Aug. 22 Sept. 16 Oct. 24 South. 4* Sept. 12 Sept. 30 Oct. 25 G. • 19 Se pt. 14 Sept. 30 Oct. 26 South. Died. [n] Feb. 26. [i] July 1. Stone crushed-•' stone of 3Tb\ Weight, yij. N 1 of ammonia, • of uric acid l, of lime on it* , Stone broke i" prostate very bleeding f°r stopped by F sloughy wouai Weight,5>j- N with traces o lime; next li of lime; cr“ lime. >fre srhii | rter die641 OPERATIONS FOR THE STONE. 838. fc'arman. . Iinling . • .Bull. . . I Brock well iliornton . .aster 339. 142. •:'V -ewe, , S ’Mt- ■ ■ ?' il.it. , W*. 143. ventry . • Langford. Age. Admitted. Cut. Cured. Surgeon. 50 Jan. 2 Feb.10 Mar. 13 Tvrr. 17 Jan. 23 Feb. 10 April 10 Tyrr. 75 Mar. 14 Mar. 31 May 29 Tyrr. 4 July 31 Aug. 4 Sept. 1 Tyrr. 10 July 26 Aug. 18 Sept. 25 Tyrr. 23 Nov. 23 Nov. 30 [«] Tvrr. Remarks. A great gin-drinker; bled in course of the Jirst after- noon, but stanched by pressure. Passed no water till four a.m. of second day, when the finger passed through wound into the bladder, and the water then flowed freely. Passed clots several times daily till death. Became excessively irritable, but always quieted by gin, which was given freely, but not to the amount it afterwards appeared he had been accustomed to take. Oxalate of lime; pain in belly next day : on seventh day bleeding began, and repeated frequently after- wards. Case given at p. 604. Name and date not known, but is recorded in the Steward’s book. Uric acid, and very flat. Large oblong stone. Two stones, one 3vij., other 3>v. Bj. gr. xv. Both uric acid. Stone crushed. Weight, 3ij. gr. xv. Nucleus, uric acid, with traces of oxalate of lime; the re- mainder oxalate of lime. Had been lithotritized two years since, but no frag- passed at or after the operation, which was followed by a severe attack of irritative fever, from which he did not recover for several weeks. Though much urged, he would not submit to a second lithotritic operation, on account of the severity of the pain he had suffered. In the present operation for lithotomy, the forceps were withdrawn with some difficulty, containing tour seemingly distinct and unequal-sized stones, weighing together 3xi. gr. xiv., of which the largest exceeded the united bulk of the other three. On careful examination, these were evi- dently the fragments of one single stone, which they readily formed by properly placing and aftesh en’'r‘0-Ub-tle3S’- br°ken !? the lit,hot.ri,tic operation ; the broken surfaces had become coated 13 Nov. 27 Dec. 15 RJ • • • 1 South. • • • • • • • • 6 Jan. 7 Jan. 18 Mar. 10 Tyrr. 60 Jan. 31 Feb. 22 April 24 G. . . 4 April 2 April 11 June 2 . . Tyrr. . 10 June 9 July 29 Sept. 8 . # . South. 76 July 7 July 18 Aug. 26 G. • • • # June 23 Oct. 10 Tyrr. * Oct. 26 Nov. 7 Dec. 8 • • Tyrr. • 13 Mar. 17 Mar. 20 May 1 G. • • • 59 April 13 May 3 June 21 • • • Mack. 4* May 27 July 1 July 22 . . . Solly 14 June 15 June 22 Aug. 3 Tyrr. 66 July 29 Aug. 5 Sept. 14 , Tyrr. . 12 Sept. 21 Oct. 2 M G. # * • 18 Sept. 2, 1841. Mar. 3 April 3 Tyrr. 8 June 14 July 9 Aug. 13 • • • Mack. . July 28 Oct. 1 Nov. 3 Tyrr. 6 Aug. 13 Sept. 17 Oct. 29 • • B.Tr. • Jan. 14 Feb. 4 Mar. 11 G. . . . 24 Jan. 24 Feb. 4 Mar. 4 • • • B. Tr. •D'Cd. [a] Dec. 8. [6] Jan. 8,1839. Stone small, and consisting of triple phosphate. Nucleus, oxalate of lime covered with uric acid, upon which a layer of phosphate and carbonate of lime mixed; crust of phosphate of lime. Weight, 3iv. gr. x. ; oxalate of lime thickly coated with phosphates. Uric acid. Stone broken to pieces, and not analyzed. Nucleus of uric acid, next layer oxalate of lime; crust, uric acid. Uric acid, with traces of fu- sible calculus. 2 T [c] Oct. 5.642 OPERATIONS FOR THE STONE. Age. Admitted. Cut. Cured. Surgeon. 3. S 4 3—continued. James Landon . . • 31 Jan. 31 Mar. 11 April 15 . Mack. . Joseph Bishop . . . 62 Feb. 1 Feb. 11 April 27 G. • • • Henry Tabernacle . 34 Aug. 23 Nov. 18 Jan. 9, 1844. • • • Solly Joseph Burgess . Weight, gr. vj. Im alate of lime. Nucleus, oxalate ofl remainder uric ac with a little oxalat This patient had be tritized ten tin viously, and was passing large quantities of triple phosphate at the period of the ope Hemarks. viously, and was passing large quantities oi Triple pnospuate at lithotomy, in which two triple phosphate stones were removed. Solly Oct. 30 Nov. 14 Dec. 19 1844. William Lapwortli William Evenden William Sparkes George Sawyer . John Snooks . . John Easton . 1845. Ilenry Smith , . Nathan Robins . Stone pyriform, 1 long, with four si dules at extremities, and weighed 3vii. gi.j. Nucleus of each stone triple phosphate,, remainder composed of layers of oxalate of lime. 3 74 Jan. 6 Jan. 8 Dec. 5, 1843. Dec. 23, I 1843. smaller ; both consisting of uric acid, hours and a half. Feb. 6 Mar. 26 G. Stone, size of kidm uric acid. Two stones, one she * I nut, the other Much venous bleeding, which was not checked Solly 47 April 6 M Solly Extensive ulceratior flo neys. Large nu* animal matter, seemingly a clot of blood; the stone composed of uric acid and oxalate o-: 12 G 12 44 11 July 11 Aug. 20 Aug. 20 May 6 Sept. 9 July 27 Sept. 1G Oct. 5 Nov. 10 Oct. 22 Dec. 3 May 30 July 18 m South. I Mack. Mack. Mack. Clark Weight, gr. xlvii.; c of urate of aramor a trace of urate ofl Oxalate of lime. N ucleus, uric acid; re oxalate of lime mil uric acid. Nucleus, oxalate ol next layer, uricac traces of fusible calculus covered with oxalate of lime ; the crust, fusible calculus and i mixed. Scarlet fever appeared on the fifth day. After death it was found his fami i infected when he left home. Died, [a] April 18. [6] Oct 20. [The analyses of the greater number of the above stones are by Dr. Leeson, and copied fr0” ' ’homas’s Museum Catalogue. Those of Lucas, Bohkr, Wybrew, Landon, and .. nooks are )> m. V rr« TV 11 _ 1. .1 1... o*. Tkomno'o TVllT.il com miimpfillll" to me Thomas’s luuacuui vjawm/gut,. auuov. u* xjuunu, --j i » . . J Thomas Taylor. I should be much obliged by any St. Thomas’s pupil communicating to me noi« « any cases of stone which he possesses, of which I have been unable to obtam particulars . more espc of those in the early part of this table, so as to render it more complete.- .F. S.] [OF LITHECTASY. Lithectasy, or Cystectasy, which has been, within the last few y*®18’' warmly advocated by Dr. Willis («), lias for its object the removal o stones from the bladder, without division of its neck. The 0PeIrj, ! consists in opening- the urethra, in the perinceum, behind the bulb ot penis, to the extent of a few lines, and then slowly dilating the branous and prostatic portions of that canal, and the neck ot bladder, llow far this mode of treatment will succeed has yet tested by experience; but I am disposed, with Feiigusson, t0 , c. that the neck of the bladder would not be so surely uninjured y dilatation as is presumed. ^ who The original proposer of this method appears to have been John Dorci.xs C ^ seems to have been led to it by having noticed the passage of small stones ufcj , ' >ft after the operation with the great apparatus, as pt-r fistulous canals, left On the Treatment of Stone in the nimbler by medical anil mechanical means. London, 1842. 8vo. great apparatus, (fc) Two Chirurgieal Questions suted_and »g awered ; in Phil. Transactions, vol. v 1726, 27.643 LITHECTASY. ariana, and already mentioned, (p. 571,) and also by the natural escape of stones rough the dilatation of the short urethra of women. He, therefore, proposed the tablisliment of a perinatal fistula, so that, as near as might be, the opportunity for the ■ape of a stone from the male bladder, should be similar to that from the female adder, in both cases requiring little more than the dilatation of the neck of the bladder. *3 then put the question, “ Whether it be not possible to dilate the artificial fistula in [e perinamm of males, and the urethra in females, with sponge or gentian tents, gra- ally increased for some time to such a width that we may easily pass a pair of •ceps into the bladder, with which the stone, when small, may be extracted, and when i-ge or of an irregular figure, broke, and the pieces extracted gradually, and at different les, when they cannot be extracted at once, without fatiguing the patient too much,” _L 320,) and after discussing the subject, he concludes:—“ Therefore, artificial fistulas in k des, and the urethra in females, may be dilated so as to extract any stone, without cut- r a ig the body of the bladder, or lacerating any of the parts.” (p. 322.) It does not appear, ;: lugh Douglas proposed, that he ever practised this method, and like many other $ jposals, it was lost sight sight of for many years; still, however, it is his operation, ;i iugh Dr. N. Arnott (a) says, “that the means proposed by Douglas are inade- I jte ” for its performance ; forgetting however to mention that Douglas had honestly k erred to a case of Collet’s (b), in which a perinseal fistula after lithotomy had A en successfully dilated with sponge tent, as in Douglas’s proposed operation. 1* b‘ 1819, however, Collet’s plan was suggested and practised by Dr. Arnott (c), | a ?ase under the care of Astley Cooper, for a recto-vesical fistula of nine months’ W nding, after an unsuccessful operation for the stone, in which the rectum had been •a tunded, and the stone left in the bladder. For the relief of this fistula, Astley Cooper e ide an opening into the urethra, from the perinceum, and introducing a female * dieter, immediately struck a stone. This not being expected to be large, Astley 34-oper yielded to Arnott’s proposal of dilating the passage from the perinceum into $ : bladder with his fluid-dilator instead of sponge tent; after the employment of which, ; • thirty hours, the passage from the perinceum to the bladder was enlarged to three- arters of an inch in diameter, and Cooper then introduced a pair of stone-forceps, t 1 extracted a stone as large as a moderate-sized walnut. a Stimulated by Willis’s enthusiastic expectations, Elliott of Carlisle (d) performed ft s operation in July, 1842, on a lad of seventeen, with the variation of making the I rand larger than recommended by Willis. “The different steps in the operation m re precisely the same as in lithotomy, until the prostate and membranous part of the » Him were exposed. The latter was opened close to the prostate, and divided cau- t ; usly towards the bulb by carrying the knife along the groove of the staff till an I :°lng was made of sufficient size. The staff was then withdrawn, and the point of ? forefinger of the left hand served as a guide for the introduction of the dilator, t icp, having been previously well greased, was passed along without difficulty. A ! ,iJarm feru/n mucilage was next slowly injected into the instrument, until the patient I Ij J complained of the feeling of distension. On removing him from the table to Ded he complained of a strong inclination to make water, which was found to arise a m the dilating part of the instrument having slipped into the bladder. It was ptied, partially withdrawn, and, when fairly within the neck of the bladder, again . tended. Another opiate was given, one having been given before the operation. In I *our* tlme a ^uw teaspoonfuls of the mucilage were again thrown into the dilator i the patient complained. The urine had passed freely along that part of the tube I a* “mmun.cated with the bladder.” He went on well; no further injection was ■ • s given ’"a * thm’dd 6 ^ tfo”owl?6 daJ he was a Httle uneasy, and another opiate uA he end of twenty-flve hours Elliott « emptied the dilator and with- I diatelv tIme Pu-Tg h’Scleft !?refulScr along il int0 the W^der. He im- abouff!mr ■ .whlchTwas of small and in sliape resembled a coffee bean, itwir toar.t,n!es lts,s,ze- 14 was removed with the scoop and finger,” (p. 137 1 and j "?his r'm“rk'»,he ELL,oTTld;i,,?thfdnK ■ ' ise irrit-uinn 1 .’ntery.als’ saJ a quarter of an hour at a time, as less likely to • .ied!’^ (p 139 x lf ^continued for a period of thirty or forty hours, as has been men- sixtv ffi°tbl’n°f Malton> Yorkshire (e), performed the second lithectasy on a man 3 the autumn of tbesame year, and made “ an opening a few lines in extent embranous part of the urethra;’ but could not introduce the dilator, evidently (a) Lancet, 1842-43 ; vol. ii. p. 612. (rf) Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal, vol. lix. p. 135. (/•) London Medical Gazette, vol. xxxiv. i>. 77 1813-44. * 2 T 2 1 ;) Traite dc la Taille. to K* different modea of extracting 1? 8v£ the Bladder> by Arnott. London,LITHECTASY. 644 for want of room; attempts were made to enlarge the passage sufficiently with bougi for its admission, but it could be only imperfectly got in, and was left without distendii it till three days after, when the injection escaped, the bladder-part of the instrume having rotted. Another instrument was then passed with difficulty, but the path- could not bear the distension, and during the following weeks suffered much coustit tional excitement. Not till the eighth day after introducing the second instrume could any progress be made with the distension, but then it went on rapidly, and ( the eleventh, “ the urethra having been dilated to as great an extent as the instrume would allow, an effort was made to extract the stone. It was seized with the lithotou forceps, but it was discovered to be too large to remove entire without using more vi lence than was thought prudent or safe.” (p. 79.) The stone was, therefore, broken i with Fergdsson’s lithotrite, and brought away piece meal; it weighed a little short two ounces troy.” (p. 78.) The patient did well. Wright inquires, “ Would it not I better to make the incision in front of or anterior to the bulb, where the canal is so supe ficial that it could be opened by a mere scratch ? It certainly requires no formidab:. incision to reach the membranous portion : still it must be of some depth, and it occu1 to me as just possible that on introducing the dilator, its extremity might be carnt past the opening in the urethra into the surrounding cellular tissue. I imagine the bu bous portion would be dilated as easily as the membranous part of the urethra, (p. 79 In June 1843, Fergusson (a) performed the third lithectasy in a man of sixty-fou who had suffered very severely, and for five years had been continually passing stone as large as peas. The urethra was opened by “ an incision along the raphe about oi inch and a half in length, terminating about half an inch in front of the anus, froi which point two incisions, each about three-fourths of an inch in length, were c&rna downwards and outwards. The superficial cellular tissue being divided to a simik extent, the point of a knife (a common lithotomy bistoury) was thrust into the groov of the staff a little in front of the triangular ligament. The edge of the blade was s- applied as to divide the triangular ligament to a slight extent, first downwards ami ou wards on one side, and then in a similar way on the other; the groove of the stoa being then distinctly felt by the forefinger of the left hand, the metal pomt of a Arnott’s dilator was placed within it, and slid cautiously into the bladder I he sta- was next withdrawn, and the bag of the dilator was partially distended with a solut e of gum arabic, the distension having been continued until the patient complain^ < pain.” Additional quantities of fluid were repeatedly thrown in or the first twohoura again, at the third, and at the end of the fourth, the instrument beingfullydstendtt was withdrawn, and another larger one having a passage through it for the escaF the urine, was introduced. At the ninth hour, a larger instrument was pasatfgw directed to be distended as the patient could bear it. At the twentieth hour, this dilato Si . quarter i» diameter, hariug been full, distended, »'«s removed J stone attempted to be removed with the scoop several times unsuccessfully, as 't W away only fragments. Forceps were also used, but the stone was too large to passim was dierefore broken by forcibly closing the blades; the pieces were middy renioi« Constitutional excitement, however, came on, and he died on t e ev ni g . iH, day. On examination, the principal ^ (toned, an day. On examination, the principal circumstance f , the bladder and rectum, and that lying on the outer surface of the gut was . slightly infiltrated with a sero-purulent fluid.” (p. 576.) It would seem from FeRGBS80-_ i dt i ii....,thn riictGiicimi liiul hppn made too oiiicklv « XOF D® Sligntiy inmiraieu wiiua&eiu-puiuicuiuum. vr-wv --— . . » * observations, that he thought the distension had been made too quickly; forhes*} “ Unless the dilating process were effected in a much slower manner tha * . mended for lithectasy, he feared that the mucous membrane and urethra vouW » ■ be dilated, but actually torn.” (p. 577.) And further that “ it was one of the n amob^ in lithectasy to avoid any wound of the neck of the bladder ; but he doubted be avoided, and a certain amount of inflammation might, therefore, becalculatca \ - * * * On any future occasion, he should suggest that a longer period s i< (-0 pended in using the dilator, and also that in the event of the stone proving tool a ns ready removal, the lithotrite should at once be used. * * * It was his opm ready removal, me mnoirue snuuiu at uuw ^ q stone o in such an operation there would always be greater difficulty in extracting • dc, any considerable size than in lithotomy, for in the latter .ease the wound ^ down alongside of the anus, and the forceps holding the stone could he . ® r \ tlm nviiimm»W>C \rprp roilductea 1 down alongside ot tne anus, anu me iorceps nuiumg ...u »iUU« y., uear th depressed, whilst in the former, (lithectasy ) the manoeuvres were conduct^ ^ ,h angle of the pubes, and consequently in the narrowest part of the space Jetw .g bones, a space which the experienced luliotomist was always careful to avoid- IP (n) London Medical Gazette, vol. xxxiv. p. 1843^4.[ 645 ] FIFTH DIVISION. Q OF DISEASES WHICH CONSIST IN THE DEGENERATION OF ORGANIC PARTS, OR IN THE PRODUCTION OF NEW STRUCTURES. Astruc, J., M. D., Traite des Tumeurs et Ulceres; avec deux Lettres, &c. Paris, i’ .759. 2 vols. 12mo. Plenck, J. J., Novum Systema Tumorum, quo hi Morbi in sua genera et species if; •ediguntur. Viennoe, 1767. 12mo. Dumas, Sur les Transformations des Organes; in Sedillot’s Journal de Me'decine, ixa/ol. xxiii.-xxv. W Abernethy, John, An Attempt to form a Classification of Tumours according to k heir Anatomical Structure ; in his Surgical Works, vol. ii. Second Edition. London, »i Laennec, Note sur 1’Anatomie Pathologique; in Corvisart, Leroux et Boyer’s n louraal de Medecine, vol. ix. p. 360, an xm. And Article Anatomie Patholoqique; n Diet, des Sciences Medicales, vol. ii. p. 46. ?; Cruvelhier, Essaies sur 1’Anatomie Pathologique en general et sur les Transforma- ions et Productions Organiques en particulier. 2 vols. Paris, 1816. Meckel, Handbuch der Pathologischen Anatomie, vol. ii. part ii. p. 111. Baron, J., M.D., An Inquiry illustrating the Nature of Tuberculated Secretions of • >erous Membranes, and the origin of Tubercles and Tumours in the different textures f the body. London, 1819. Caspar, Zur Lehre von den Afterorganisationen; in Horn’s Archiv. fur Medicin- i 3°he Erfahrung, vol ii. p. 385. 1821. '* Hedsinger, C. F., System der Histologie, vol. i. part i. ii. Eisenach, 1822-23. 4to. von Walther, Ueber Verhilrtung, Scirrhus, harten und weichen Krebs, Medullar- ’ B utschw,a™m’ Teleangiektasie und Aneurysma per anastomosin : in Journal u ur Lhirurgie und Augenheilkunde, vol. v. part iii. Z V4W?.ence» William, Observations on Tumours, with Cases: in Med.-Cliir Trans KOI. xvu.p. l. 1832. , ■ . . ... ... _ 8vo. Warren, J. C, Surgical Observations on Tumours. Boston, 1837. ■ Ritgen, Ueber Afterbildungen; in von Walther’s Journal, vol. xi. I IS,LS6J'’ den feineren Bau und die Fol'men der krankhaften Geschwulste. f J-, leones Histologiae Pathologic®. Lips., 1843. 'otori^hTHaPd^rterbuch der Physiologic mit Rucksicht auf phy- B1 cne Pathologie, Art. Getvebe (in pathologischer Hinsicht.) 1 J 1 o 2* 1 'l6 tW0 cla^ses of disease to be considered in the present section, , llres ™ ^generation of organic parts and the production of new struc- r^ani^!, ,t0^ethfr S°,far M a general character of the degeneration of 1 ot mnrS, ’ u that the enlargement of the surrounding parts depends w¥iem in ,0n !e 'nereased deposits into them of the matters forming r less , fGlr n^tural state> but that in the parenchyma of the part, more ’ > such matter foreign to their natural structure, is producedDISEASED CHANGES OF STRUCTURE. 646 and deposited ; hence is it often very difficult to determine, whether a dis j eased structure is to be attributed to the change of the organ, or to a new j formation. [Lawrence has well observed“ It is not easy to draw a clear distinction betweei i new or accidental productions and changes of structure, or degenerations of organs; There is no definite boundary between them; on the contrary, as in other diseases-.: there is an insensible transition from one to the other. In the case of Fungus hamiatodem we find the same structure sometimes occurring as a new production, an independen tumour; sometimes as a change of structure in a part. Indeed, we meet with thi o-rowth in three distinct forms; viz., as a deposit enclosed in a cyst, as an unencystec formation, and as an infiltration in the substance of an organ. Again, we find a simila gradual transition between the structures composing various kinds of tumour, so tha we often hesitate in deciding to which species a particular swelling should be referred>■ As the same gradual blending of one form into another occurs throughout the whob field of disease, we cannot wonder that the several attempts at reducing its infinitely diversified phenomena to an artificial arrangement of classes, orders, genera, specie and varieties should have failed.” (p. 4.)] 2148. All degenerations of organic parts appear to have their origit in a local increased vascular activity, on which depends the deposit of ; substance more or less resembling the elementary parts of the organ, or o a peculiar substance, in the interstices of the part, in which by the shooting forth of the vessels, and their very extensive ramifications, the unnamrar formative disposition is sustained, and the growth of the tumour increasedr We find, therefore, also in most cases, that although there be no charac* teristic signs of inflammation, yet that increase of temperature, peculiar sensibility on pressure, tension, and the like accompany the beginning o degeneration. In most cases, the increase of vascular activity is not to lx distinguished by the symptoms which characterize it; for little as we can comprehend the natural growth and development of organs without in« creased activity of the vital processes, just so little can we understand it u diseased structures. Development of vessels, diseased secretion, continuer production of the secreted matter, with growth of vessels in it are the processes, which in the course of these diseased formations are constantly repeated. The unnatural commixture and condition of the juices, anc the large quantity of inorganizable matter may indeed effect the sepa or. of peculiar substances, distend, increase, and change the tissue of different organs; but special degeneration with self-active production, proceeds oni} with increased development, and multiplication of vessels. Secret in organizable matter remains either in that state, or hardens, and then rsa operates on the surrounding parts, but always remains without vascuttfl connexions, and is destroyed in a purely chemical manner, as the his of the formation of tubercles shows, although even they may be convener from the formless condition into cells. . 2149. In the diseased changes of organic parts, either the vessels, art ■ ries, capillaries or veins, often the one more than the other, are special^ developed, or the uninjectable part of the cellular tissue is specially P valent by the deposit of formless matter, or both exist at the same time different proportions. If these conversions depend only on quantitauwj* changed nourishment, they can increase to an enormous extent, 'V1 otherwise than mechanically operating destructively ; they support ^ selves like the natural tissues, and participate in the general chanff ^ matter. But if there be at the same time a qualitative change <> nutritive matter, if they depend on general diathesis, and altera^", witt formative disposition, they have a specific character, are accompam647 PRODUCTION OF NEW STRUCTURES. g4 reaction of the whole organism, and draw all the tissues without distinc-. lion of their organisation, into the same diseased change; they cannot retain their development unchanged in the highest degree, but according to their nature are destroyed and pass into softening. Hence arises the division into benignant and malignant tumours. 2150. The after-products, which must be considered as new formations, ire either repetitions of natural formations, as the adipose and encysted Hitumours, and the like; or they are formed fx-om substances foreign to the natural composition of organic parts, as, for example, medullary fungus. They are vegetative formations, which simply by their further growth, xompress the neighbouring parts, do not convert tfiem into the same mass, for instance, adipose tumours, cysts, polyps, and the like; they are in- convenient, therefore, only by their size. But others possess the above- described specific characters, consequently have a fatal reaction on the o!whole body, and draw the neighbouring tissues into the same diseased “ ‘change. Diseased growths are subject to the same general laws as are the origin and develop- ent of the natural tissues. According to the results of microscopic observation, two J heories have been put forth on this subject, to wit, the cellular theory and the corpus- mi ar theory. According to the cellular theory, there is every where at first a simple formative VVMiatter, cytoblastema, in which are formed nuclear cells, cytoblasts, and in them cells ohpre produced; or the nuclear cell is formed first, and the cell walls are formed second- c 'xrily around it. In many cells the pathologic tissue is perfected with the complete ■flevelopment of the cell. In general these first-formed (primary) cells undergo still further changes, and from them are produced elementary parts, which exhibit no more xf the original cellular form. It is usually then the cell-walls which pass into the emaining parts of the organism, more rarely do the nuclear cells undergo a still urther development, and still more rarely do organic pathologic tissues arise, the deve- opment of which can never be traced to a cellular forcnation. It is highly probable hat the nature of the subsequently produced tissue does not depend on the nature of the ytoblast, but upon the subsequent accession of external influences. 14 According to the corpuscular theory, the formative corpuscles are produced in the {dblastic matter by clotting together. In the midst of this matter, consisting of granules Kind formless matter, a formative coi’puscle arises, and a nucleus, composed of a homo- noteneous tough matter, which continues increasing, so that at last there remains only a hin peripheric layer, which also becomes changed. In this nucleus a great quantity of Ifoecular corpuscles are formed. The corpuscle then drops in on either side, and the Mmddle protrudes, so that it resembles a knife-like body, and passes into the form of Kuematoids, or ring-shaped bodies, a nucleus with a ring. Of the formative as well of iLamat°^ ^ocl'es’ one Part Hes unconnected with the rest and movable; this is the l|)lood corpuscle; the other part is connected by contiguous linear ranks, by layers of ■fuates and heaps of corpuscles, and forms the tissue (a). II 2151. The tumours produced by those unnatural formations, which are I t0 be considered as repetitions of natural parts, belong to the most 0 mtficult subjects of the healing art; they may be considered in reference !9ao their origin, their further development, or to their manifold differences, » ior the purpose of grounding thereon their classification. In former imes the various swellings of this kind were spoken of under the general f designations, scirrhus, carcinoma, steatoma, and the rest. More careful iiquiry has, however, recently showed remarkable diffei’ences in the nature ■ i . [iioliulbu suusiances wmcn iorm these tumours, and upon I 1 T® 111,as been attempted to class them. I he ^ Abernethy points out five peculiar kinds of tumours, to wit, ^ pancreatic, mammary, pulpy or medullary, tuberculated and carcino- 'ii •*p,’ovc cite;V Haumoaertneb, Lelire von den Gegensiitzen in den Kriiften im leli H] ardt, I8l > P61 c*n Grandma v.ur Physiologic un<l allgem. Pathologic unci Thorapio, p. 32. * oecond Knifinn A num t» . 1 1 lebendea Stutt-648 KINDS OF TUMOURS. matous Sarcoma. Laennec admits a fourfold variety of the tissue ii which these tumours are formed, namely, the tuberculous, scirrhous, cere briform, and melanosis. Meck.ee considering Laennec’s melanosis th( same as Abernethy’s tuberculated and medullary sarcoma, points out si> different tissues, the pancreatic, the mammilloid, the cerebriform or me- dullary, the scirrhous, and the tuberculous or scrofulous. 2153. John Muller (a) has very recently endeavoured, from micro- scopico-chemical observations, to found a division of tumours, according, to "their chemical nature, their microscopic structure, and the manner of their development. In reference to their chemical composition, all tu- mours are, according to the elementary parts of which they consist, either fatty tumours, jelly-yielding (b), or albuminous tumours ; other substances, 'as osmazome, saliva, caseine, and so forth, may indeed be present in them, but only in small quantity proportionally to the principal elementary parts. The more minute microscopic elements of tumours are, besides capillary vessels, fibres, granules, cells without and with nuclei, tailed or spindle- shaped corpuscles, vessels, and by far the most common element is cells. The principle of dividing tumours into groups can be obtained neither merely from their minute structure nor their chemical nature ; for tumours the most, differing in reference to their physiological nature and curability,* may equally possess the most delicate structure; in similar structures chemical differences may exist; with similar chemical nature, there may, be difference of structure, or difference in respect of physiological pecu- liarities and curability. In the formation of groups these several points: must be taken into consideration. 2154. These various opinions serve to prove how difficult it is to make- an accurate and sufficient division of tumours dependent on their unnatural- structure. The ground of this difficulty rests, without doubt, on the' manifold changes to which the diseased matter is subject in the various periods of the development of the tumour ; further, on the undistinguish- able influence which the natural structure of an organ has upon the after- formation developed in it, and on the variety of causes upon which it de-< pends. There are, therefore, tumours, in which are present, at the same time, several of these diseased products, either lying near to, or intimately 1 connected with each other. But if pathological anatomy be of direct use- and immediate application to practical medicine, it must not rest on e» mere examination of the changes of organic parts and of the substances forming the tumour, and assume these alone as the ground of division ; bu * it must at the same time consider the symptoms, course, and effect upon ’ the immediate neighbourhood, and the whole body, if it would not e * seduced, by incorrect particulars, into subdividing similar diseased con-* ditions. Under this supposition, the number of tumours founded on te above mentioned variety of diseased tissue, may be conveniently referred - to three, namely, medullary fungus, scirrhus, and tubercle, in which case the pancreatic and mammary tissues are to be considered merely as acci- dental modifications of the medullary (c). # | |rai, 2155. These unnatural structures, completely foreign to the na composition of the organism, may agree in general with each other; t ie consist, probably, or for the most part, of albumen; their tissue is (a) Above cited. .... (ll< This is a well-chosen designation, as it is shown by Thkkahd that •• gelatin does not exist in the humours of animals ; but all their soft and solid parts contain the materials rr0J*r fr‘). -- Traite dc Cliimie. vol. iv. P-^- prod action.” 1827. Fifth Edition. (c) Wai.theb, above cited.649 ENLARGEMENT OF THE TONGUE. ■ or less distinctly cellular; they contain a fluid of various consistence, and unenclosed in differently-shaped cells; at first they are harder than in the ■subsequent periods of their development, and then are for the most part x;< harder than the organs in which they are met with, in which case they 1$soften, and are converted into a fluid, or into a substance of looser tex- ture. Their form is for the most part more or less round ; they strive to u lestroy the neighbouring parts, and the organism which are drawn into n :he same diseased structure, or displaced by pressure, and further pro- [jj.oagate the diseased affection by the lymphatic vessels, and perhaps also’in Bother ways. I.—OF ENLARGEMENT OF THE TONGUE. y Prolapsus Lingua, Macroglossa, Lat.; Vorfall der Zunge, Germ.; Hypertrophie de la Langue, Fr.) Clanny, W. R., M.D.; in Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal, vol. i. p. 317. ,805. 5 von Siebold, C., Beobachtnng iiber die Yerkiirzung widematiirlich zu grosser ■ &unge; in Chiron, vol. i. p. 651. Klein, Beobachtung einer durch Abschneidung abgekiirzten verlangerten Zunge; flfen Chiron, vol. i. p. 665. Percy, Article Langue (Pathologie Chirurgicale) ; in Diet, des Sciences Medicales, tiv i ol. xvii. p. 244. Mirault ; in Memoires de la Societe de Medecine de Montpellier, 1816, part iv. p. 517. van Doeveren, H. H., Dissert, de Macroglossa, seu Linguae enormitate. Lugd. , datav., 1824; cum tabulis duobus. 8vo. 2156. If the tongue increase very much in bulk it protrudes over the >f aw, and can only be brought back into the mouth with difficulty, or not ■ ’tall. This evil is generally congenital; but the enlargement of the w ongue is not at first considerable. Its fore part appears only between ; :he lips, it projects in a mass as it enlarges over the lower lip and “ lw> and causes great deformity. By the hanging down of the fore part 1 f the tongue the swelling becomes larger, the tongue-bone and larynx nfre drawn forwards; there is great difficulty in swallowing, the spittle ' sows out, and from the constant dryness of the throat, swallowing etecomes still more difficult. The articulation of the voice is greatly hindered ; and when the disease has long continued, the muscles of the rufongue are in a palsied state. By the continued position of the tongue > *etween the jaws the circulation is stopped in the protruded part, °he biJngue swells more considerably, and presses the teeth and the alveolar * 'rocess of the lower jaw outwards ; by the constant rubbing of the tongue •‘dentations and excoriations are produced ; the constant exposure of 'the >» rotruded part to the air causes clefts and chinks, and often deep ulcer- hons ; and the papilla? become unnaturally thick and prominent. I 215 <• The enlargement of the tongue takes place either a shorter or a jnger time after birth, or after cutting the second set of teeth, and frequently preceded by convulsions, and its cause seems to be palsy of Jfie muscles of the tongue. In such cases the incisive and cuspid teeth ire not pushed forwards, but are rendered useless, and fall out by the instant rubbing of the tongue (a). jm*ntrno;^,*arf.^nieni *?le to,16u<! above mentioned must, be distinguished from that ndsfw'i" depends on inflammatory swelling, and from tumours of various nns developed in the tongue. 1 Borta, Traitc des Maladies Cliirurgicales et des Operations qui leur convicnncnt, vol. vi. p. 385.650 TREATMENT OF ENLARGEMENT OF THE TONGUE. 2158. The congenital lengthening of the tongue is of no great cons quence ; it is easily relieved if recent, and not incurable even when have existed longer. The above-described symptoms accompanying th complaint when severe, especially its ill effects on nutrition, partly regard to the difficulty of swallowing, and partly on account of tit continued loss of the saliva, render its early treatment necessary. 2159. The treatment varies according as the disease is congenital, . as it has occurred after birth ; and in the former case, with reference the length of time it has existed. Soon after birth it is generally sufficiei- to prevent the complaint increasing, to irritate that, part of the tongd protruded between the lips with acrid powders, as pepper and the like, i j order to induce the child to draw it back. If it be necessary to keep tl tono-ue in the mouth, a bandage must be applied to keep the lower agaiat the°upper jaw. As the enlargement of the tongue is encouraged h sucking, a wet-nurse must be chosen whose nipple is large and lone;, so that the tongue may require less lengthening as the child sucks tha with a short nipple, or the child must be fed with a pap-boat. In tl* interval, when the child is not sucking, it must be endeavoured to prevei the protrusion of the tongue by the means already directed. M f Clanny (ci) mentions the case of a boy five years old, on whom the tongue had begi. to protrude within the first year, and at the former age had projected three inches; ii was returned with difficulty, and the jaws kept together as recommended by La sns (li) The tongue was replaced in the mouth with much difficulty, and retained keeping the jaws perfectly closed with a handkerchief passed round them, and over tl crown of the head, for the period of five weeks.] 2160. If the enlargement of the tongue be so considerable that it car. not at once be brought back into the mouth, its size may often be dually diminished by repeated application of astringent irritating remethe Scarifications and leeches may, with this view, be useful as well i moderate and gradually-increasing pressure, by means of a roller or a Utt bao- of linen. This compression of the tongue, in which the bandage mu. be’frequently moistened with a stringent, and the patient kept on h back, is advantageous, if properly persevered in, oftentimes m very advanced cases. When the tongue has been so far reduced that » be brought back into the mouth, the jaws must be kept constantly close* by means of a bandage. If the surface of the tongue be dry, it must moistened by frequent washing and fomentation (c). 2161. When the enlargement of the tongue is so considerable benefit is attained by the above treatment, and when by t le continuance of the disease its fore part is changed in structure. j remains nothing but shortening its length with the knife, oi ll(Jf\62. The patient, seated on a chair, must have his head fixed by a assistant standing behind him, and his mouth kept open either with co^ inserted between his back teeth, or by means of a speculum ora. paUent then protrudes and reacts Ids tongue, so that theje.torjn, decide how mucli shall be removed, lhe tongue being protruded,^ ; how mucli snail oe removed. a mg wi.du^ e , ^ by an assistant obliquely upwards with a pairof polypus or c vhaaus forceps. The operator then grasps the front of the t0 V1 Ids fingers, or fixes it witli a l.ook, and with a strong bist^f^ lines of the tongue in a semilunar shape, at a stroke. 1 1 anil in Medical and Physical -'corns, National, vol i p.l.an vLp. Ac 1S°1. .W 11 Boyer, above cited, p. dST.651 BRONCHOCELE, '/0 Above citert. is a tourniquet, and the bleeding is stanched either by ligature, by the i ictual cautery, or by pressure and styptics. Where the state of the tongue permits, it is best, according to Percy (a), to >ut out, by two strokes of the knife, a A shaped piece, with its point backwards, and ifter stanching the bleeding to bring the wound together with the interrupted suture. i If, after the operation, the lower incisive teeth project considerably, attempts must l )e made, by continued pressure, to put them back; and if this should be unsuc- [i '.essful, they must be drawn. If the lower lip continue everted and much outspread, a io that the spittle cannot be retained, a triangular piece must be cut out as in the 3 iperation for cancer of the lip, and the wound healed by the twisted suture (Mirault.) ■ The application of a ligature for the removal of part of the tongue, in which the ligature jt s at once tied round it, or for the purpose of hastening its cutting through, a double f hread is passed with a needle into the tongue, and the ends tied on each side, and i! gradually tightened, till the tied part dies, is attended with greater pain, and is more Ik ediousthan cutting it off with the knife, but is more safe against bleeding. ‘ [Harris (b) of Philadelphia tried to remove a portion of enlarged tongue, by intro- lucing with a needle a double iron wire through the middle of the tongue, and having eparated the two portions of wire, he brought them across the tongue, passed the two nds of each through a corresponding double canula on each side, and then twisted hem; the circulation ceased, but only for two hours. He then passed a strong silk igature, and fastened it in the same way; but in forty-eight hours the circulation nad returned. He therefore amputated the tongue with a catlin, through the track ade by the ligature; the two principal arteries were tied at once, and other three, rhich had been allowed to bleed, to diminish the irritation caused by the previous liga- r .ares, were taken up afterwards. The wound was dressed with dry lint, and the patient ■ ecovered perfectly, with the exception of a slight lisp in her speech. Harris, therefore, trongly recommends amputation, in preference to the ligature.] 2163. The protrusion of the tongue dependent on paralysis of its luscles, requires, besides the constant retraction of the tongue, blisters iehind the ears, and on the neck, the application of irritants, of electri- f ity, galvanism, and the like. TI.-OF BTtONCHOCELE. (Bronchocele, Struma, Lat.; Krojtf, Germ.; Goitre, Fr.) Haller, De Strumes ; in Opusc. Pathol., p. 16. White, Thomas, A Treatise on Struma or Scrofula. London, 1784. 8vo. ,f.i, Ackermans, J. F,, Ueber die Cretinen eine besondere Meuschenabart in den Alnen. I Brotha, 1790. 1 i Fodere, Traitc du Goitre et du Cretinisme, &c. Paris, an vm. 8vo. •f Wichmann’s Ideen zur Diagnostik, vol. i. p. 99. pi Gautieri, Tyroliensium, Corynthiorum Styriprumque Struma. Vienna;, 1794. i Wenzel, J. and K., Ueber den Cretinismus. Wien, 1800. ■ ^>'SSert' de Glandula Thyreoidea tarn sana, quam morbosa, eademque im- ■ nmis Strumosa. Wirceb., 1810. 1.^™’ Ui8bi3r EAenntniss> Natur und Heilung des Kropfes; in Horn’s | V0N Walther, P., Neue Heilart des Kropfes, u. s. w. Sulzbach, 1817. 'iw,’ 18UL.AN8vobSerVati°nS °n thG SUrglCal Anatomy of the Head a»d Neck. ff sXUHUBACI1’ Der KroPf nach seiner Ursache, Verhutung und Heilung. Wien, >: trumT^T,3’ ^ractatas de Glandula Thyreoidea tarn sana, quam morbosa, imprimis •f iruma, ejusque causis et medela. Lipsiac, 1822. P) American Journal of Medical Sciences, vol. vii. p. 1. ISJO. de652 KINDS OP BRONCHOCELE; TREATMENT. Prosser, Thomas, An Account and Method of Cure of the Bronchocele or Der ; Neck. London, 1771. 8vo. Wilmer, B., Cases and Observations in Surgery, with a Method of curing Bro chocele in Coventry. London, 1779. 8vo. Barton, B. Smith, M.D., A Memoir concerning the Disease called Goitre, as prevails in different parts of North America. Philadelphia, 1800. 8vo. Holbrook, James, Practical Observations on Hydrocele; also on Bronchocele, 8J London, 1825. 8vo. M'Clellan, Inquiry into the Nature and Causes of Goitre, from a work on t j Geology of Kemaon, Calcutta, 1835; and republished in Dublin Journal of Medic:) Science, vol. xi. p. 295. 1837. Inglis, James, M.D., A Treatise on English Bronchocele, with a few Remarks <! the Use of Iodine and its Compounds. London, 1838. 8vo. Copland, James, M.D., Article Bronchocele; in his Dictionary of Practical Mete cine, vol. i. p. 269. 2164. Bronchocele is a chronic, painless, more quickly or slowly arifid swelling on the fore and under part of the neck, depending on enlarge merit of the thyroid gland, and varying considerably in reference to i extent, form, and hardness. The swelling begins in one or other lobe, (r affects the whole gland, and may attain an enormous size; in most case it has a pendulous shape. At first the skin is unchanged ; as the growl- increases, the veins in the neck and on the tumour swell and becom varicose. If continuing still longer, the swelling usually feels elastic soft, and regular; but after a further time, becomes firmer, and in son-v parts quite hard and uneven. Sometimes the swelling is so firmly cor nected with the neighbouring parts, that it is little or not at all movabb If left alone, the bronchocele continues increasing ; but in rare cast- runs on to inflammation or suppuration, by which it diminishes, c entirely disappears. By the above description of bronchocele, its distinction into true and false, by whic latter term various swellings in other parts of the neck have been described, is g> rid of. 2165. So long as the bronchocele is not large, it causes little or n inconvenience; but with its increasing size, the voice gradually become:- hoarser, the swallowing and breathing difficult, and there are severe fit of coughing. These symptoms increase in correspondence with 'oM greater enlargement of the swelling, till there is danger of suffocation in consequence of the obstructed circulation in the vessels of the necM the blood collects in the vessels of the head ; the face becomes puffy an** bluish, the patient complains of headache, and apoplectic symptoms maw ensue. Owing to the disturbed breathing, and the less expansion of tin chest, the circulation through the lungs is interfered with, the obstacle which the arteries suffer to the impulse of blood given by the hear* is increased, the cavities of the heart expand, and their walls thin ; ant hence arises the frequent enlargement of the heart observed in bron chocele (a). ... fa - 2166. Various kinds of bronchocele must be distinguished according « the variety of degeneration of the thyroid gland, which accompany • enlargement, namely, the vascular, the lymphatic, and the ,tri>rAo«> bronchocele. The designation of an inflammatory swelling of \ thyroid gland, (Cynanchc thyreoidea,) as inflammatory bronchocele, * improper. (u) Lull I lh.—Winslow ; in Journal general de Mcdecine, vol. lvii. p.VASCULAR AND LYMPHATIC BRONCHOCELE. 653 I Inflammation of the thyroid gland, which may be caused by cold, external violence, md the like, produces, on account of its quickly-arising swelling, considerable diffi- :ulty in breathing and swallowing, determination to the head, rushing in the ears, imposition to bleeding from the nose, and the like, and is usually accompanied with fever, [f it run on to suppuration, the abscess does not protrude much, and the collection of dus. with increase of the above inconveniences, may become very considerable. The treatment of inflamed thyroid gland requires blood-letting, leeches in great Dumber on the sides of the neck, calomel, and the like. If an abscess form, it must be opened as soon as the presence of pus is ascertained. 2167. In Vascular or Aneurysmatic Bronchocele (Struma vasculosa, ■vieurysmatica) the vessels of the thyroid gland, arteries, veins, and capillary vessels, which, with cellular tissue, make up the greater part of ts parenchyma, become' considerably enlarged. This kind of broncho- tele is characterized by its sudden origin, its quick growth, and laro-e ;ize. The swelling is warm, firm, and tense ; the patient feels in it a •iolent beating, sometimes a roaring. If the hand be applied, the beatin°- hf the arteries is felt at some one part of its external surface, but espe- cially in the course of the large arteries in the substance of the gland ; even the superficial twigs and branches are so much enlarged that they ire seen through the general coverings, and their pulsation is distinctly perceptible. The superior thyroideal artery, before it enters the sub- lance of the gland, is felt beating violently, if the aland be not so vm-u- ) )SCIRRHOUS BRONCHOCELE. 654 is very various, and it may become so large that the breathing may be rendered ve difficult or completely stopped. Its cavities are frequently divided by a partitii which is open at some one part, so that the two sides of the swelling communics with each other. The cysts, which are almost always very thick, resistant, and litl: contractile, usually contain a brownish-coloured fluid; the other parts are very differei Opinions vary as to the actual seat of the swelling. Some say it is developed at t expense of the thyroid gland; others in the tissue surrounding the gland, in which ca | the gland, pressed back towards the windpipe, becomes atrophic, and is more or It surrounded with a false membrane, and the cyst is placed at its hinder upper pa If the swelling be developed in the gland itself, there are very rarely found any trac of its parenchyma, the vessels alone remain, and are filled with fluid which has usual! the colour of wine lees. That the thyroid gland usually remains sound in this diseari as has been also supposed, appears without foundation; and according to the abov , described, ordinary relations of the gland, its determination as a peculiar kind ;j lymphatic bronchocele is legitimate. It is characterized by its egg-shaped or glob j like form, without knobby elevations, by the elastic tension of the most projectiri part of the swelling, by the bulging of its contents in different directions on the appri cation of pressure which is not painful, by its more or less distinct fluctuation, and r.j transparency when present. The beating of the arteries is less distinct, and if presei-i as Dupuytrf.n has noticed in one case, there is a motion and heaving of the swellif; by the communicated pulsation, and not depending on its expansion and contractic: (PlGNE.) _ _ J [Under the one term, lymphatic bronchocele, CnELius here includes two decided!* different diseases ; first, cysts in the substance of the gland, which he has described 1 i the principal clause of the paragraph, may fairly retain the name; and, secondly, seror: cysts in the neck, which are called by Maunoir, Hydrocele du Con, but in reality a only cysts developed in the cellular tissue, and have nothing to do with the thyrori gland, except spreading over it as over the other parts in the neck; they will be agar noticed in treating of Encysted Tumours, (p. 695.)—J. F. S.] 2169. In Scirrhous Bronchocele (Struma scirrliosa) the thyroid glan is less enlarged, but unusually hard, knobby, and irregular; the neigh- bouring cellular tissue wastes; from the very first the pain is violent an gnawing, and spreads up the neck ; breathing and swallowing are ver difficult, the one more than the other however, according to the part c the gland diseased. The scirrhous mass very soon adheres to the air tube and to the muscles of the neck, and in the last stages the covering! become wrinkled and in folds. A sanious fluid often collects in the celW immediately beneath the surface ; the mass of the swelling presses bacM wards, by which the inconveniences are very much increased. At la4j it is converted into a carcinoma and a true cancerous ulcer, with wnicl the neighbouring glands of the neck become swollen. I 2170. Much uncertainty prevails as to the cause of bronchocele. 1 ] many districts, especially in low vallies, it is an endemic, unless its causj can be decidedly referred to the state of the atmosphere, the use of watej containing salts of difficult solution, or of snow water (l). Cretinistt and bronchocele do not stand in any necessary causal relation ; the nite lectual faculties are weak from birth in cretins, and in many this blunt ness of intellect is complete, without swelling of the thyroid gland, a least without any such as can produce obstruction to the circulation Experience, however, show's in most cases in cretins a peculiar nusforma tion of the skull, by which the circulation in the carotids is more or les disturbed, and the enlargement of the thyroid gland produced by ‘ greater inflow of blood (2). Females are more commonly subject bronchocele than males, and its commencement usually begins with ' menstrual development (3). Bronchocele frequently makes its appa ance in scrofulous subjects (4). I have twice noticed congenital swe of the thyroid gland. Violent exertion, labour pains, carrjing655 CAUSE OF BRONCHOCELE. (c) Above cited. weights upon the head, screaming, and the like, frequently produce it, nd sometimes very quickly. Walther supposes, that in aneurysmatic ronchocele the arterial system is always in a somewhat diseased condition, nd has a greater or less degree of aneurysmal diathesis. Of late the opinion advanced by Bordeu, of a closure of the tracheo-thyroideal pas- ige as the cause of bronchocele, has been revived. [(1) That the cause of bronchocele depends on the mineral substances contained in the aters of the districts where it is common, appears to be proved beyond all doubt by [‘Clellan’s observations (a), and he seems to think probably also on the state of the mosphere. He refers to the observations of Saunders (6) on the frequency of goitre i Sumatra, in proof that snow water is not the cause of this disease, and he shows that really depends upon the changed condition of the water which has circulated through le caverns of the Alpine or compact limestone, and although not percolating the rock , self, has acted upon the extraneous fossils and metallic substances with which such >cks abound, and become impregnated with them. He observes, that “ Alpine lime- one does not occur to any great extent in the mountains of Ireland, nor in those of 'otland and Wales; and in these countries goitre is unknown. In England the —ease is known by the name of Derbyshire Neck, and is principally confined to Der- r/shire, where the particular rock in question forms the characteristic features of the maty. In the Alps of Switzerland and Tyrol, where goitre and cretinism both prevail, . e have the authority of geologists that Alpine limestone and nagelfliigli (usually com- >sed of fragments of limestone more or less rounded, and of various magnitudes, lamented together by a basis of calc-sinter, Jameson) compose the greatest portion of ne mountains. Now this nageljlugli is the same rock, or nearly so, as that on which le villages of Goseragong, Batuda, and Deota, are erected, villages whose inhabitants le affected with goitre to the extent of half their population.” (p. 318.) In regard the condition of the atmosphere as exciting this disease, he says :—“ As this vola- e poison (carbonic acid gas) exists in limestone to the extent of 44 parts in 100 the solid rock, it is possible to conceive, that a sufficient quantity of it, to cause a ire or less vitiated condition of the air may be extricated from limestone by atmo- heric heat, assisted by such other causes as promote the decomposition of the rock. A reference to the mineral topography of all the villages in Kernaon, whicli have examined, but one, seems to favour rather than negative these views. * * * there be difficulties in the way of conceiving the possibility of the emission of carbonic '. £as from limestone, its absorption by lime water may be suggested as a means by mch it may be attracted by the moisture on the surface and at the base of calcareous lountains. (p. 321.) 1(2) M‘Clellan observes on this point“ From goitre as it appears in Kernaon, in its pre distinct form, as well as in conjunction with cretinism, there are many reasons for iiieving that both complaints are intimately connected with each other ; if not identi- ” (7^ are mere modifications of different degrees of intensity of the same tW CC°rding 1° M‘Clellan> “the disease begins at any period of life after the a<m uld nCJer aS far aS he bas seen- arrives ^ full size sooner than six ats trom the time of its commencement, but is generally much slower, its progressive ^dr,hori * * * v^becoT^ per/ectly ******** RhSin ft Tv USUu S1ZC,of a pull'grown goitre is about one foot ten 'i:RT w T e; including the neck; and about two feet from one angle of the I t. J! /i the opposite side, measuring under the tumour.” (p. 317.) b t it the « : fays as to the age at which bronchocele is most usual:—“ We mav infer 1 T «')• from the disease and t,£,! te Bring the fire ! subj.ect. *0 it; as out of one hundred and eleven, only eleven appear !) ■ fourth tfn ten, sixty-three during the second, and twenty-four in the following • t-rsixtv ' y,ears Present four cases, the succeeding, four; and from the age of fiftv Bass mrrXLr w-:(p- 57-> ,4 c°™»»'»« A 4 with anvS;CaSeS,wli,ch have ?ome ^fore him in females, he has never i propoS of CaSe in ?hT°?„n tcommf?c“# pubfty’’ Inolis baa also compared P rn wiqch ft annearVtlill - country, winch have been collected by several writers, and five and I hamper’cent. rmS.l11 CaSGS’ th°Se °bserved ln men varied between r<i>l a) Above cited. n.\ i . ,, Journey to Boutan; in Phil. Trans., vol. Ixxix. p. 89. 1789.656 BRONCHOCELE, PROGNOSIS AND TREATMENT OF. (4) Dr. Robertson indeed says:—“There are many reasons to induce us to rega: 3 goitre as a particular variety of scrofula ; in this country (England) it is only seen highly scrofulous constitutions.” As to the differences between scrofula and brod chocele stated by Postiglione (a), M'Clellan denies that the latter should 1 i considered a merely local disease, or that it begins at a later period than scrofula ai i does not spontaneously disappear ; but he admits that scrofulous glands often suppurat whilst bronchocele rarely undergoes this change, which he considers the only re- i distinction between the two. From “ the consideration of the predisposing cause - however, he observes, we are led to the conclusion “ that the same inherent diathesv i that under certain circumstances gives rise to scrofula, would, under exposure to the excitittj cause of goitre, occasion that peculiar form of disease.” (pp. 339, 40.)] 2171. The size, duration, and nature of the disease, must be taken int the account as regards the prognosis in bronchocele. Small lymphati bronchoceles in persons under twenty-four years of age are common! soon cured. But the cure is more tedious if the swelling be larger an firmer and in older people. In large bronchoceles both internal an. external employment of medicinal remedies are frequently useless, an a decidedly operative treatment must be employed to get rid of the swell ing entirely, or at least to diminish it to such degree that the patient sufferings may be bearable. The carcinomatous degeneration of th: thyroid gland is incurable. In rare cases, bronchocele, when consequen on severe violence, cold and the like, may be attacked with more or les violent inflammation (Thyreophyma acutuni) of Frank (&), in whici case, with pain, increased heat, and sometimes with redness of the bron chocele, its tension and size quickly and considerably increase ; the arterie of the neck pulsate strongly, the veins swell, there is difficulty in breathin' and swallowing, determination to the head, redness and puffin ess of fin face, and frequently considerable fever. This inflammation may rur to suppuration; the bronchocele may be completely or in great par destroyed ; the collected pus, if the abscess be not opened in prope. time may produce, by burrowing, considerable destruction of the neigh, bouring parts, may eat away even the air-tube itself and empty inlt it (c)- 2172. The treatment of bronchocele must vary according to the natun of the swelling, as the remedies applicable to one form of the pomplaint are of no use in another. 2173. In vascular bronchocele, the further growth of the tumour cai alone be prevented and its diminution effected, at the very first, by general and local blood-letting, by the patient at the same time keeping perfectly quiet; by the continued employment of cold applications, and the internal use of digitalis, and by carefully avoiding every exertion ; at least, I hav« in two cases followed this practice with success. If the vascular bron chocele have already attained considerable size, nothing is of any service, and the proper remedy for diminishing, if not of perfectly getting r« of the swelling, by which the inconveniences it causes are al«i removed, consists in tying the superior thyroideal artery, by which t < thyroid gland is deprived of the greatest quantity of the blood which flow into it. (а) Memoria Patologico-practica sulla Natura di (307.7.0. Firerwe, 1811. I'.’mo. (б) lie curandia liomimim morbis Epitome, lib. vi pars ii. p. lxxx. — Hupkokn, Hiss, sistens Animadversioncs de aflectionibus inflammatoriis Glandular Tliyroide®. Gotting®, 1823. (c) Bait.i.ik, Matthew, M.D., * ®*7jilns , igravinirs, with Explanations, intended tie the Morbid Anatomy of some of the^o* . iportant parts of the Human Uouy* lition. London, 1812. *Jto.OPERATION OF TYING SUPERIOR THYROIDEAL ARTERY. 657 2174. This operation was first proposed, in way of question, by Charles Gr. Lange («), afterwards by Jones (5), especially applied by Spangen- behg to aneurysmal broncliocele, and first undertaken by William Blizard (e), in whose cases great diminution of the size of the swelling1 ensued, but the patient died of hospital-gangrene. Waltiier ((/) per- .. formed the operation successfully ; also Coates (e), Wedemeyer (/), ci> IamEson (g), Earle (h), Beck (*), and I, myself, in six instances. sr Fritze (j), Zang (/e), and Langenbeck (7) have met with fatal cases J rom bleeding, and inflammatory symptoms. Graefe (ni) and myself (n) m tave operated without any permanent result. 2175. Tying the superior thyroideal artery is performed in the follow- ing1 manner. The patient seated on a high stool, opposite the light, in- clines his head to the contrary side on which the operator stands, and " 'ests it on the breast of an assistant. At the point where the artery is elt pulsating, the skin having been moderately stretched to prevent any old, a cut is to be made through it, which beginning a little below the ngle of the lower jaw and rather to its outside, is carried inwards and lownwards along the inner edge of the m. sterno-mastoideus; and a second ut divides the m. platysma, myoides in the same direction, the blood i.vhich flows into the wound being sopped up by an assistant with a moist ■ ponge. The tip of the left forefinger is passed into the wound to ascer- fiin most accurately the situation of the artery. A director is then pushed hto the cellular tissue, covering the artery and the tissue divided with the istoury; after which, it must be endeavoured to isolate the vessel with he blunt end of the director, with the handle of the scalpel or with the nger; but the use of any cutting instrument is to be avoided. The artery laving been laid bare is now brought a little up, and a single round licra- ire carried with Deschamps’ needle about it. and tied with two sirm-lo ire carried with Deschamps’ needle about it, and tied with two single .-,nots. The ends of the thread lying out of the wound are fixed with a ■|iece of plaster, and the edges being brought together with strips of i j aster, some wadding, and a compress are applied, and the whole kept in i dace by a circular bandage. |2£e_ l5™® bai:® of *e artTejy,is rendered easy by the upper edge of the broncliocele re with t? co?sl.de!'ably- If ‘he m. omohyoideus, as it passes above the artery, inter- sier to ti hteJS° ? n, °.f the V,essd’ u niay be advantageously cut through. It is T ho‘I 1 artery between this muscle and its entrance into the gland than above at it woo’ °"eVer’ oum ’.111 one case in which I tied the artery above this muscle s close toThp rtf aS-Y,ng 11 beloWl A branch of the glossopharyngeal nei-ve, which 1 iDlies tn?h ?|th)r-°.ld frtery’ must be taken care of’ and drawn outwards. This also r, e lieatiire k t,lyroicleal veins- and ‘he laryngeal branches of the thyroideal artery " an°US ProP<>si‘ions have been made as to the mode of finding the superior A* >^mby70Lio dt Strurais et lScroPhulis. p. 16. I tur^ | JftatlSe 1,16 Process employed by I od d and “rPTS,n? A1’® H““°"li«ge from - ‘heICure , AfteriC!<- nnd on the ,lse t cl a!, ,,1 &Cl London, 180.1. hvo. E 2 AU'AN Hurns, above cited, n. 20.1. * :»e B n rT-T*1- ir*ns'’ voi. x. p 312. isio. A‘ii.pA85 °Ka Neue “ibliothek, vol. iii. American Medical Recorder, vol. v. p. 11G. Ap.ICd0wedi^1 “d Pll-vsical vol. Pl 2011 Sept.1" 1826:*' vOL. II. i) Above cited. ..?) Hedenus, above cited, p. 255. (A) Verungliickter Versucli, eine Kropfee- scnwulst durch Unterbindung der Arteria tliy- reoidea superior zu lieilen. Mitgetheilt van Dr. Horen• in Rvst’s Magazin, vol. vii. p. 315. CO Neue Bibliothek, vol. iv. part iii. p. 558. ynj Hedenus, above cited, p. 255. (n) Weissfi.ao, Dissert., Animadversiones de Struma aneurysmatica et de Arteriis Glandulas t nyreoidenj superioribus lijjandis. Iloidelb., 18t3. dto. Chelius, liemerkungen iiber die Struma vasculosa, und die Unterbindung der obcren Scnuddrusen-Schlagadern; in Heidelberg, kli- nisch. Annalen, vol. i. p. 208. 2 u658 BRONCHOCELE; TYING OF SUPERIOR THYROIDEAL ARTERY. thyroideal artery, aud the direction of the cut through the skin, and this step of tl operation has been subjected to as definite rules, as for finding arteries in other parts J i the body. According to Jameson and Zang, the cut through the skin should be begt on the middle of the lobe of the thyroid gland, near the upper edge of the thyro cartilage, and continued for the length of two inches, according to Jameson, of on towards the clavicle, von Walther and others fix for the beginning of the cut tl space between the tongue-bone and the thyroid cartilage, from which it is to be co tinued three inches in length on the inner edge of the m. sterno-mastoideus, towards tl breast-bone. According to Langenbeck. and Bujalsky, it should begin immediate j over the submaxillary gland, and be carried down in a straight line to the lower edge * the thyroid cartilage. All these rules are, however, precarious; the situation and cour of the superior thyroideal artery vary so considerably, according to the size and exte sion of the bronchocele in different directions, that any such determination of the begi. ning and extent of the wound through the skin, cannot in general apply, and the abov. mentioned rules on this point can alone be held with. 2176. The patient having been put to bed, with his head a little raise and laid on the side, must be kept quiet and treated precisely as when a artery is tied for aneurysm. It seems in this case always advisable afti the operation to have recourse to a not inconsiderable blood-letting, ft the purpose of checking a great flow of blood to the brain. If inflamnut tory symptoms, difficulty of breathing and swallowing, headache, and tl like, should occur, general and local blood-lettings are to be considers the most efficient remedies. Violent cough requires extract of lujoscj amus, together with antiphlogistic means. If both superior thyroideal arteries require tying, that of the offu side must be tied after the wound of the first operation have healed. Aftc tying, the bronchocele loses its elastic feel, the pulsation diminishes, tl warmth lessens, and the swelling becomes smaller and shrivelled. 2177. If this operation be compared with those modes of treatmei formerly recommended in that stage of bronchocele which threater danger, as extirpation of the thyroid gland, the introduction of a setot or issues, it must undoubtedly be preferred, partly on account of its eas performance, and partly for its happy result, when the bronchocele is of tl vascular kind, that is, depending more on the enlargement of the vesse than on the thickening of the uninjectable part of its tissue, or on the poui ing out of lymph-clots and degenerations in its cells. If the growth r the bronchocele cannot be in any way prevented, dangerous sympton may be produced, and the superior thyroideal artery felt pulsating^ ® tinctly. A slight degree of still little developed general affection ot tt vessels accompanying aneurysmal bronchocele must not contraindicate operation; but in far advanced diseased alteration of the heart and arte rial system, those ill consequences at least may accrue after the operatioi which happen after the operation for aneurysm, when there is a11 rysmal diathesis (1). If these circumstances be carefully considered w fore the operation, and that performed with due caution, the result*!> 1 most cases, correspond with our expectations. To this must be ad that aneurysmal struma, as above mentioned, {par. 2167,) is not common that the symptoms may be illusory, since the bronchocele characterized aneurysmal, exhibits in its interior more or less thickening, cavities ■ cells filled with serous or brownish fluid, and that such bronchocele ni also be efficiently treated with seton (a); hence the propriety of tying superior thyroideal artery is not disparaged. von Walther doubts the possibility of the growth of the turnon tying the superior thyroideal artery, and asserts the adhesion ot a (n) Rust's Magaxin, above cited.—I.angknbeck, above cited.TREATMENT OF LYMPHATIC BRONCHOCELE. 659 i[ arge portion of the expanded and tied vessel. I have, however, noticed in he contrary, as the growth of the swelling may be continued by the en- u argement of the inferior thyroideal artery and its communication with ;« he superior (2). In general this does not happen, and perhaps can only, f vhen the inferior as well as the superior artery is at the same time nlarged («). It must, however, be always remembered, in deciding u n tying the superior thyroideal artery, that if it be much changed by ■disease, the ligature will not effect its obliteration, but bleeding must , nsue, which in many instances will have an unhappy result. (1) P. von Walther (b) has successfully practised tying the superior thyroideal ms rtery as above directed, in a case of aneurysmal struma. | [(2) In confirmation of Chelius’s statement regarding the growth of the broncho- dLele, after tying the superior thyroideal artery, although the swelling had at first de- ! Ijreased even considerably, Crawford (c) states that Coates informed him as to the - nal result of his operation above mentioned, “ though the case proceeded extremely g’ell for some time after the patient was discharged and lost sight of, yet the tumour ibsequently, he understood, enlarged, and in the end destroyed the woman by suffoca- v on.” Also, in a case of Wickham’s of Winchester, the largest he ever saw, “ after the ■gature ol the artery, the swelling gradually diminished for about six weeks, after ti hich it as gradually regained its former size. It seemed that the decrease of the tumour Bmntinued so long as the part of the gland, which had been supplied by the vessel, remained iarithout nourishment; but as soon as the supply was restored by the anastomosing ranches from the opposite superior and the two inferior thyroideal arteries, the swelling tJ9i;tnrned to its former dimensions. Such, I should conceive, would be the case unless all tv ie thyroideal arteries were obliterated, which it would be a very difficult task to accom- jsh, if not altogether impracticable from the depth of the lower vessels.” (p. 331.)] j The circumstance above noticed in regard to the enlargement of the inferior thyroi- jrsea1 artery has led to the proposal of tying it also. Velpeau (d), Dietrich fe), and E^p?ANN bL) have given special directions for finding this artery. ' ,“ere may be cases in which after tying the superior thyroideal artery, the broncho- !. e upes not properly decrease, on account of the existing enlargement of the inferior Sfcliyroideal artery. But as regards the mode of tying the latter vessel, that which has risien already mentioned as to the direction of the cut for tying the superior artery ■ophes to it also. Only if the inferior thyroideal can be decidedly distinguished, bv its’ 0 ulsation and size at the lower part of the bronchocele, may it be decided to tie it and jpie direction of the cut must then be decided by the situation of the vessel. In a case SimTvi Cl T tlie suPerior thyroideal artery and the bronchocele had diminished 1 fel‘thf inferior artery pulsate distinctly, and could have undertaken 1 " V;h .ease, lf t]ie diminution of the swelling and the subsidence of the previous pomptoms had not rendered it unnecessary. y R 2178. Lymphatic bronchocele, if not exceedingly large, and of very I >ng duration may be always cured by the use of internal and external il'-medies, or at least be so far controlled, that the disease produces no fnous inconvenience. ? rfn7!9' l11 the remedies wllich have been employed internally for I [fferent'f burnt,SponSe has bee» most used. It lias been given in J nerent forms, and with various combinations; but according to my ex- fodnTLrn°St fdVantaf°US!y With retl foxf?love- Iodine, which is consi- i et’s („\ ^°St .importa"t elemfint m the burnt sponge, has, from Coin- 1, \J) experience and recommendation acquired great repute. Forty- l Srtl. and in nouveau remMe centre I fi(b) In I ‘ Annalen> ▼Ol. i. parti. >' Wnnde vol0rp 6M. Lhir,,r«il! und A,,gpn- I)[(/) of 1’ractical Medicine, vol. i. *rij, ISA,.'' 8v0Anat°mie Oldfufgicnle, vol. ii. l^U1fencllen der Sohlagadem, p. 95. ^’®se^rtim^nV. dc •)'®ilnd‘8 Artcr‘'s thyreoideia, ' -"n*,T83^ ,0nb"S “d 8anandam Strumam! le Goitre ; in Bibliotheque Universelle de Geneve voL xiv. p. 180. 1820.—Nouvelles Recherchos su^ , e"ets oe 1 Iodine et sur les precautions a suivre ilans Ie traitement (lu Goitre par ce nouveau re- mede; in Bibl. Univers., vol. xvi. p. 140. 1821. —Formey, Bemerkungen iiber den Kropf und rsachricnt uber ein dagegen neu entdecktes Mittel. Berlin, 1820.-—Ghaefe, Ueber die Indicationen, nacli welclien die Iodine gegen Krdpfe anzuwenden ist ; in Journal fiir Chirurgie und Augenheilkunde.. vol. n. p. 016. y 2 u 2660 TREATMENT OF eight grains of iodine are to be dissolved in an ounce of spirits ( wine, and of this ten drops are to be taken thrice a day, in a glass < water sweetened with sugar. After eight days the dose is to be increase' to fifteen drops, and some days after to twenty drops. It is observed i this treatment, that within the first eight days, the skin over the bronchi, eele is less tense,, the substance of the swelling softer, the several parts It- the gland more distinct, and its removal gradual. Small bronchocek usually disappear in eight or ten weeks, and very large ones diminish. I this employment of iodine it is noticed, that besides the softening and re moval of the bronchocele, usually the pulse becomes quickened, and tha there are other variations from the natural condition. On the setting i of these symptoms the iodine must be at once left off, and only agak employed eight or ten days after, when they have subsided (1). Very large doses of iodine, or its too long continued use cause palpita; tions of the heart, dry, frequent cough, loss of sleep, quick wasting, los of power, swellings of the bones, tremors, a painful hardness of the bronchocele, sometimes wasting of the breasts, considerable and continue! loss of appetite (2). These symptoms may be always removed by warn bathing, valerian, quinine, volatile alkalies, and other antispasmodics; ant the painful hardness of the bronchocele by leeches and softening fomenta tions. In consequence of these effects of iodine, it must always be givei with caution, and with due reference to the constitution of the patient and the condition of the bronchocele. Very tense, painful bronchocele make no difference ; however, if there be in addition spasms or biliou; symptoms, leeches, softening fomentations, antispasmodic, and anti gastric remedies must be employed. The use of iodine is contraindicatec in pregnancy, in the disposition to flooding, in incipient diseases of the breast, in wasting fevers, and in irritable and nervous constitutions. Iodine acts especially on men, who have no other ailment than broncho, cele, if it occur in later life, or the patient have reached manhood. V hei the symptoms endanger life, or become fatal from the use of iodine, theiit cause depends on inattention to the points above noticed ; or in the.“®dp in which the iodine is employed (par. 776.) As in using tincture of by mixing it with sugared water, the iodine is thrown down, and so ge - into the stomach in an undissolved state, it seems preferable to use itin mode prescribed by Lugol, half a grain to a whole grain of iodine is solved in a pint of distilled water, to be taken during the day (]>ar• 1 or a solution of hydriodate of potash (par. 856) may be given, from w 1 I have never noticed the symptoms just stated. * The other remedies which have been also employed in bronchocele, as c;1Jc|n€ 5^ shells, barytes, carbonate of soda, of potash, soap, vinegar of squills, oxysulp iu antimony, digitalis, belladonna, and many others, are some of them little longer l and some given in combination with burnt sponge. Graefe considers the following as very efficacious:— < r Potass, tart. Spong. ust. Sacch. alb. aa 3ss. Ammon, hydrochl. Rad. imperator. Ciunam. acut. aa 5ij. Sulpli. antim. aurat. 9j. Piper, long. 5i. . Misce ut fiat pulvis svbtutssimus. and have large lymphatic Jtronch^^ Persons who are little irritable, pasty, ana nave targe iympi.»»- “'irritable should take daily, morning and evening, a small heaped-up teaspooniui. The wasted persons, whose bronchocele is small, should take the same dose only oi • { ^ remedy is very efficacious, though most nauseous when swallowed dry, an . t 1 1C rUn nntinuf folrn if i tv trofnr t * — continued longer if *= Mioe, tin. -tee* U >«di” [(1) Inglis objects to Coindet’s mode of em[661 LYMPHATIC BKONCHOCELE. u any quantity, the result would be a deposition of pure iodine upon the mucous mem- brane of the stomach, on account of the affinity which exists between alcohol and water. > Nor would the evil stop here. Iodine has a great affinity for hydrogen ; so that wben- ;ver it comes in contact with other vegetable or animal matter, it decomposes it, taking its hydrogen to form hydriodic acid; the mucous membrane of the stomach would therefore suffer, which dissection after death proves really to take place, by poison- ing with iodine; there being always found, as Orfila has shown, ulceration of the mucous membrane of the stomach and intestines. On which account, he prefers, even |U> the weakest tincture, an aqueous solution either of the hydriodate of potassa, the I hydriodate of iron, or of iodine rendered more soluble by the presence of a salt, as the ^nitrate of ammonia, the hydriodate of soda, or the hydriodate of potassa.” (p. 65.) But )f these several preparations he gives preference to the ioduret of iron, in the follow- ng form:—R Jerri iodur. 3ss., potass, lujdriod. r)j., aq. destill, i jss. Solve. Cap. zutt. xx. ter die ex aqua ; and for the following reason :—“ That in his goitrous patients ie generally found some catamenial irregularity, more particularly amenorrlicea. Now i be found that when the tincture of cantharides, and of the muriate of iron failed to uduce the natural secretion, the ioduret of iron often succeeded; its use, therefore, is culiarly indicated in bronchocele.” (p. 67.) (2) Still more serious symptoms than those mentioned result from the improper use )f iodine (a). “ The patient becomes affected with a sense of faintness, tremor, and sink- |ng, dimness of vision, palpitation, and other symptoms of a nervous kind. The degree of tremor, Dr. Gairdner informs us, is sometimes so great as to present some resem- ■snlance to chorea, though the limbs can always be kept steady. More violent effects 6 ;han these occur at times ; symptoms apparently proceeding from the direct and acrid i|S|:ffects of iodine on the alimentary canal, and strongly resembling the Indian cholera ; fehiolent and incessant vomiting, strong spasms of the back and legs ; extremely frequent’ : iunall and oppressed pulse, urgent thirst, and excruciating pain of the stomach and Blnowels; the latter being sometimes violently purged, at other times obstinately con- Wined.” (p. 329.) These severe symptoms I have never witnessed, perhaps because I ■J nave been accustomed to use iodide of potass, which the stomach will bear, in doses up ' 'O five grains, and even more, though continued for many weeks. Occasionally, how- ..per, the iodide of potass will cause nausea and loss of appetite, so that its discontinu- # ince for a time will be necessary. I have seen it also several times produce ptyalism n n persons of irritable constitution. On these accounts, it is necessary to watch its i eftffects carefully. The best modes of giving iodide of potass, is, in doses of from three to five grains, W lccording to the age and condition of the patient, twice a-day, either in compound decoc- 9 ion of sarsaparilla, or in compound infusion of gentian, or pennyroyal water with ■T fome warm tincture.—J. F. S.] r j j , ■ -180. Of the very great number of external remedies which have been Ijidvised to be used alone, or at the same time with internal medicines, the ■following may be mentioned as the most effectual and most useful; fre- iquently rubbing: the swelling: with flannel, rubbincr with namnlmraio^ quently rubbing the swelling with flannel, rubbing with camphorated •luniment, with diluted caustic liquor of ammonia, soap liniment with liquor cot ammonia, with ung. digital, purpur., with mercurial ointment and tinc- ure of cantharides, with naphtha, with foetid oil of tartar and opium lightly application of discutient plasters of soap, of mercury mixed with r olatile salts and camphor, cmpl. cicut. ammoniaco c., and the like. As s ie internal use of iodine, even when employed with the greatest care equently produces injurious effects, Coindet(A) advises its external I and freq'ient experience has proved its great influence in I oS;°J e’fi.We a" in other Slandukr swellings. Half a dram of ' OOlCle of DOtftsh IS fn ho marln , i , o -ml Q °f p0t.ash is be made int0 an ointment with half an ounce of , and a piece as big as a nut rubbed into the bronchocele n,| • 1 ~~ ~~o ,.uu me uiunciioceie morning: ■ e ening. I he cure is mostly completed in from four to five weeks ; (b) Notion i* , * i i . (") Diet, of l’ract. Med., vol. 1. fiction*‘ot “r ,1.^"?.,n'8.trati?n d« VIode P'lr bwshtung fiber •. nuiiiiiuouailUU £ u tmiJrkftT * "ppbcalion do ce medicament • i i^ de Tv^ ' ') 8Cr° ,,lc.8 et des quelqnes mala- ers dir- lymplintiquc ; in Hiblioth. Uni- • or,, de Geneve, vol. xvi. p. 326—B.ehleb, Beo- bachtung fiber die aussere Amvelullingdes liydrio* dinsauren Natrum; in von Gha efe und vonWai- thF.it’3 .loiirnal. vol. iii. p 2?'.- Uai p, Observa- tions sor lea Efiets de l’lode contre le Goitre ; irj Bibl. Univers. de Geneve, vol. xvili. p. 304,662 TREATMENT OF BRONCHOCELE BY SETON; in some instances it must be combined with the internal use of iodine, the bronchocele become painful and harder, this ointment must be witl held for a time, and leeches and warm applications made use of. Cautio must also be recommended in the external use of iodine. [In using iodide of potash as an ointment, it is better not to rub it in, as almost inv riably, sooner or later, and in irritable persons after two or three rubbings, it irritate the skin so much, that the cuticle separates and a sore is produced, which compels tl ; suspension of its employment. All the wished for advantages will be gained 1 simply smearing the ointment thickly over the affected part, and covering it wit a piece of lint once or twice a day; and very rarely is the skin in this way irr : tated. Some practitioners paint the swelling over with the tincture of iodine; bt this not unfrequently blisters the skin, and therefore its use cannot be persisted it —J. F. S.] 2181. Of all the remedies, both internal and external, recommended ii the treatment of lymphatic bronchocele, I prefer the internal use of burr sponge with ginger, sometimes with the addition of digitalis, and frequent smart rubbing with camphor liniment. From the results of my own ex perience, I have not done more by the internal and external use of iodin. than by the plan just mentioned; and where that has been inefficient, s has also iodine. 2182. When considerable alteration and cartilaginous hardening ha taken place in lymphatic bronchocele, and when by the cautious employ ment of internal and external remedies, no diminution of the swelling ha been produced, and symptoms threatening life arise, the lessening of the tumour may be effected by tying the superior thyroideal artery, if it bt much enlarged, and pulsate violently. But in these cases the introduction of a seton is most advantageous, by which the destruction of the swelling! by suppuration, and the obliteration of the vessels by the inflammation excited, is effected. 2183. The seton should be passed either from above downwards, oi from one side to the other, through the substance of the swollen gland ; ir doing which the superficial veins must be cautiously avoided, and the needle not passed too deeply. In general a reddish-brown thickish fluic escapes ; and some days after, the seton must be drawn further ; the in- flammation thereby excited is of little inconvenience to the patient. Ii the seton be not sufficiently active, a due degree of irritation may be ex- cited by smearing it with some acrid ointment; or pieces of hellebore root may be introduced with it. The seton must remain in for a long time m order to keep up suppuration till the cure is complete, and to prevent the burrowing of the pus. Suppuration rarely extends throughout the whole gland, but generally destroys only that part of it which is in the neig * I bourhood of the seton. If luxuriant granulations appear at the openings.. they must be snipped off. When suppuration ceases, and the wound has perfectly healed, the lessening of the bronchocele continues till it has completely disappeared. For some time the skin has a wrinkled ap- pearance, but soon afterwards becomes natural. At the scars the skin a first seems adherent to the thyroid gland, but this also disappears ma little time. Quadri’s successful cases show that a seton may be P8®®? repeatedly, even as often as sixteen times, in various directions t*lr0“?e" the bronchocele, without any particular symptoms appearing. I'1 re-introduction of a seton-needle through the still remaining part o ^ bronchocele, Quadri found considerable resistance at the part where had been previously employed ; on which account he concluded tna recurrence of bronchocele, after using a seton, was very mipro663 BY EXTIRPATION. K Although the use of a seton is not so dangerous a remedy as by many £ supposed, I have known, from my own experience, as well as that of litliers, fatal results, which seemed to me to depend on the unhealthy ^ uid copious suppuration which ensued when the seton had been drawn a hrougli the larger cavities of the bronchocele, the firm and cartilaginous > vails of which did not fall together, and foul ichor, collected from one siti Iressing to another, caused fatal reaction (a). 2184. Of similar operation to the seton is the emptying a bronchocele jg vith a sufficiently large cut, and exciting inflammation and suppuration T >y introducing lint into it. The front of the gland is laid bare, with a (longitudinal cut, the bleeding vessels tied, the swelling cut into an-d ai emptied of its contents, by pressure made upon it, lint introduced and sup- Kuration endeavoured to be excited by digestive remedies. This treatment n appears specially applicable in that kind of lymphatic bronchocele which ibrontains fluid in several small or large cavities, and withstands the use i(ij)f the internal and external remedies above mentioned, as well also as iwhen by the introduction of the seton dangerous symptoms are feared Si from the collection of foul ichor (b). > The mere puncturing and emptying the fluid in Struma cystica is only palliative, and I lie fluid soon re-collects, and frequently soon exceeds what it was before. Maunoir Bwas, after puncturing the swelling, thrown in irritating injections ; but experience does Sot speak in favour of this mode of treatment, as the fluid, if not very irritating, is of no se, and if it be, may produce very violent symptoms. The objections already made to le use of the seton apply also here, although it is used by many in this form of bron- 9U hocele. As notwithstanding the inlying of the seton the fluid oftentimes will not ; - tscape properly, the introduction of an elastic tube into the lower opening has been Hjf dvSed, through which, at the same time, soothing and irritating injections may be > ioade (Pigne after Sanson.) The copious suppuration gradually diminishes, the etiavities shrink, and, by degrees, are converted into a single canal (c). Serious m symptoms may, however, occur after this mode of proceeding, and the cure is in b general only completed in from five to six months, i Chelius has not correctly stated Maunoir’s practice. It is perfectly true that fc;t first he used injections, having previously emptied the cyst with a trocar and jfflanula; but he found their consequences so serious that he speedily gave them up, and v imploycd setons with success in the five cases which he relates. The use of setons <4 tas also been followed successfully by O’Beirne and Bransby Cooper, without any additional irritant.—J. F. S.] 1 2185. The favourable results to which experience points from the above- :>; Mentioned various modes of operation, in the most severe cases of struma, f b’hich have resisted all the internal and external remedies, and endangered i ife, must decidedly reject the extirpation of the bronchocele as very rs 'dangerous, and almost entirely to be forbidden. Single cases in which !r h*3 operation has been successfully performed do not oppose this opinion, ss on the other hand just as many have been adduced in which the patient '• nas died either under the hands of the operator, or a short time after the ope- ration, in which, on account of the bleeding, the completion of the operation vas prevented, or the patient was only saved with the greatest difficulty. m™,-.:’ ae Tnmore _cystico v.'au Journal de Medecine, vol. x. p. 25. 1821. 7, . •■'•oit.n, wisaci u. uc i uinure tysuco I nffulan. Helmstad, 1744.—Steroman, Dissert. f‘ ,™m*; Jenac, 171)->.—Klein, Beobachtungen ' die Heilung des Kropfes (lurch Verciterung ermittelst eines dutch gezogenen Haarseiles; 3lEB0,jr> s Sammlung chirurgischen Boo- le Lou.. \,n",en’,vo'- ’• P- * I.—Quadbi, Memoir on a • * Mode of treating Bronchocele ; in Med -Chit. . ■ *■ P- It!.—Copeland Hutchison, tS l iih Ihooehocele, or Goitre, treated by seton, M.thOhservat.ons; in Med.-Chlr. Trans., vol. xl. U|'(C\’-D °HEI'IVS, above cited, p. 2,18. ft; PoDEnE, above cited.—Lemaire, in Non Bf.ck, above cited.—Koonetta, in Revue Mcdi- cale. 1834, vol. i. p. 379.—IIeidenretoh, in von Graefk und von Wai.ther’s Journal, vol. xxiii. p. 080. 1835; and in Allgemeine Zeitung fiir Chirurgie, innere lleilkunde und ihre Hulfswissen- schaften, 1843, No. 4, 5, has communicated the largest experience on this mode of operative treatment of bronchocele, together with careful anatomical observations. (b) O’Bkikne ; in Dublin Journal of Medical Science, vol. vi. p. 1. 1834.—Bransbv Cooper; in Guy's Hospital Reports, vol. i. p. 105. 1836*664 ENLARGEMENT OF THE CLITORIS Li those cases only, where there is a partial, defined swelling of the thyroid glan which is movable or has a neck, and which is unconnected with the deep importai organs of the neck, is extirpation to be held indicated. The skin is to be divided t the tumour and separated from it on each side, the swelling drawn well forwards with hook, and its cellular connexions carefully separated with some strokes of the knife, j doing which the blood must be cautiously sopped up with a sponge, the spouting vessel] tied directly, and if possible before they are cut through. If the neck of the swellic be connected with any important organ, if there be reason to fear any vessel runnin through it, the rest must be tied. The treatment of the wound is to be con duett according to the general rules (a). [Green operated in 1829 on a bronchocele of this kind in a wroman twentx nine years old. The swelling was as big as the fist, growing from a small bas on the right side; its surface presented many enlarged veins, and an artery of equ; size with the radial ran across its base; it was very firm and irregularly lobnlatec- Two semicircular cuts, meeting above and below, and including the skin covering tb swelling, were made, and the divided veins bled freely. The artery was found an tied; but in doing so was wounded, and there was much bleeding. The base of th tumour was then cleared, and bleeding from the jugular vein was stopped by pressur upon it. The windpipe and the sheath of the carotid artery were exposed as the bas? of the swelling was isolated, and a strong ligature having been passed round it, th tumour was removed at a stroke, and the bleeding ceased; but it recurred half-an-hon after, was evidently venous, and stopped by pressure. In the course of a few day> suppuration ensued, and the ligature was removed, but low fever ensued, and she diei on the tenth day after the operation.] 2186. In cases in which, on account of its siluation and condition' the extirpation of the bronchocele has seemed to be indicated, tying it a its base has been performed successfully by Mayor in three, and by Bach (b) in two, instances. The skin is divided by a crucial cut upon the swelling, the flaps dissected back to their base, and the neck of the tumour isolated as far as possible with the finger. A strong ligature i.‘ then applied around it, and tied with a loop-tier. According to Mayor. the ligature should be tied as tight as possible; but according to Bach only lightly for the first two or three days, for the purpose of preventing the violent pain, symptoms of choking, bleeding by cutting through a vessel, and inflammation of the veins, but afterwards it is to be tightened.- When the tumour has mortified, it should be cut off' in front of the liga-. ture, which must then be tightened, so as to hasten throwing off the stem. This tying, after previously laying bare the neck, is indeed less dangerous than extirpation; it is, however, very hazardous. The whole swelling must become gangrenous, so that a mass of filth remains till it is entirely thrown off, and there is still a horrible wound, which always leaves an ugly scar; besides which the inflammation and symptoms of suffocation may be very severe. Regal de Gaillac (c) has made use of the subcutaneous ligature for removing bronchocele. III.—OF ENLARGEMENT OF THE CLITORIS AND OF THE LABIA. (Hypertrophic, Cliloridis et Labrorum. Lat.; Vergrosserung der Klitoris und der Schaamlippen, Germ.) 2187. The clitoris may, either as a congenital vice, or as consequent on early masturbation, enlarge to such size as more or less to destroy the* functions of the female generative organs, and even be capable of leading to vicious practices. The condition of the clitoris may be, excepting it® (a) IIkdknds; in von Gbakfk und von Wal- (ii) IIirtz ; in Gazette Medicalede Paris, vol-1*- thew s Journal, vol. ii. p. 240.—Gr.vkfe, see p. 9. 1841. . IIedenus, De UlandulaThyreoidca turn sanaquam -v-v—i •n.Smiv.ntinue. morbosa, p. 267. Lips., 1822.—Mandt; in Rust's Magazin, vol.xxxvii. partiii. p. 337.—ZartmanN, Dissert, de Struma) extirpatione. Bomnc, 1829. p. 9. 1841. (c) Bulletin general de TMrapeotique. Oct.—Liston; in Lancet. 1841, vol. ’. P- ' , —A. Sanson, DesTumeurs du CorpsThvreo leur Traitcmcnt. These de Concours. l«r»i665 AND OF THE LABIA ; OPERATIONS. size, either natural, or it may deviate more or less from its natural state, j its vessels may become varicose, and the like. Syphilitic affections not unfrequently give rise to considerable enlargement of the clitoris. I have seen an instance in which it was about two inches long; it became hard, and its natural structure was completely destroyed; and the same happens in scir- rhous degeneration of the organ, 2188. 'When the clitoris is of very great length, nothing is left but to cut it short; and if otherwise degenerated, to remove it down to the healthy part. The patient being held by assistants in a proper posture, and the labia separated, the clitoris should be taken with the fingers or forceps, drawn forwards, and the excess, or the degenerated part, cut off with a bistoury, or scissors, at one or more strokes. The bleeding, which a; if the vessels be large is very great, must, as far as possible, be stanched by tying, by cold water, by styptics, and by pressure against the arch of the pubes. If there be no bleeding, the surface of the wound must be dressed with dry lint, covered with a compress, and this fastened with aj !■* bandage. Some moistened linen should also be placed between the \t\mjmphce, and some wads of lint in the vagina, to prevent it growing ■together and narrowing. The after-treatment is conducted on the ordinary rules. The case of an idiot, cured by the removal of the clitoris, is related by a physician of iBerlin (a). 2189. The labia may, like the clitoris, either from original formation, >r as consequence of continued inflammation, syphilitic sores, and the like, ohttain such size as to cause difficulty in walking, and interruption to Ircoition ; and, by their continued irritation, excoriations, and even deep Milceration, may be produced. With enlargement of the labia the vessels ■rommonly become varicose, the labia themselves quite hard, and the a discharge of the urine may be more or less completely prevented. ii For enlargement of the labia from elephantiasis see Birrel (b) ; also Monod (c). H [Enlargement of the labia to such size as to need removal with the knife, is not, so I far as I am aware, at all common. But great increase in the bulk of the ni/rnphce, in iwhich also the prepuce of the clitoris participates, is of very frequent occurrence in fl-lromen of the town. In St Thomas’s Museum there is an instance of one ni/mpha r iemoved by Astlev Cooper, which is as big as two fists, and has a very whimsical ■ ustory attached to it. The disease merely consists of a large development of tou°h. ■ ellular tissue within the double skin; and in general is not very vascular.—J. F. S.] 2190. It is rarely possible, except when the enlargement of the labia i-Uesults from continued irritation, or venereal affection, and has not yet i ttained any considerable size, by proper treatment for the removal of y he irritating cause, or of the syphilis, to be of any use. If the enlaro-e- I nent be consequence of the congenital formation, or if accidental, but Have ong continued, and the structure of the labia be considerably wtered, their removal with the knife or scissors is the only remedy. The ii patient is to be placed in the same posture as for shortening the clitoris, *jne enlarged or degenerated labium is to be taken hold of with the rangers of the left hand, drawn a little forwards, and with a convex • oury, or with curved scissors, at one or more strokes, the de^ene- 6 or e"larged labium is to be removed. The wounded surface °must ly examined, and if any degeneration remain, it must be U lth the forceps and cut off. The bleeding is to be stanched by >'■ vii. p. j [J.J5-um' VoN 'v ai.thkr s Journal, (&) Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal, n n .• , . c • vo1-xxiii- P- ~ ’7- 1 W2.j. W lJullet.in (le la Societe Anatomique, Sept. 1835, p. 12.666 WARTS-, CAUSES AND tying the vessels, or if this be not possible, with cold water or pressur 4 The same dressing is to be employed as for the clitoris. If the enlargiJ ment be very great, two moderately large semilunar cuts must be mad to include the degenerated part; which, having been removed, the edgu of the wound are to be brought together lengthways, throughout the '' whole extent, with suture. [The removal of the enlarged nympha is usually best performed with a pa; of small shears, of sufficient size to take off the whole at a stroke. If the prepuce r| the clitoris be also enlarged, it is rarely necessary to meddle with it, as after tl - removal of the nympha, it in general shrinks to a moderate size. I have not found needful, in any case in which I have operated, to employ sutures ; or to do more, thaJ at first to apply a cold wet rag to stanch the bleeding, and afterwards a poultice; tj the wound skins, the scar contracts, and the edges soon draw together.—J. F. S.] IV.—OF WARTS. ( Verruca, Lat ; Warzen, Germ. ; Vermes, Fr.) 2191. Warts are variously-shaped growths of the skin which appea under two different forms. They are either superficial, with a broa base, or most commonly attached by a thin neck, do not project rauc above the surface of the skin, are soft, compressible, covered with th ordinary epidermis, and have the same sensibility as the skin. Wart commonly arise at those parts where the skin is delicate and sensitive specially, therefore, on the face, neck, and back of the hand, and mor frequently in women than in men. Or warts are thick, have a hrotn base, and situated more deeply in the shin ; their form is conical 0 cylindrical; they are immovable and hard, outspreading on their top and the skin about their base seems burst through, as by the eruptioi of the wart, and its colour is completely changed ; the top of the wart i almost insensible, but frequently it is very painful within. [Besides the warts here mentioned, the generative organs are frequently attacke* with two kinds, one of which has much the appearance of the “ seedy wart,” as it i commonly called, on other parts of the body, and is a very common attendant m gonorrhoeal discharge, which has been allowed to remain on the skin and irritate it At first this kind of wart has a little pedicle, with, in comparison to its size, a broac head, consisting of little flat prolongations, like the tips of leaves closely set together, from this there is an acrid secretion which is contagious, and wherever it rests, pro duces in the same individual, or in another having commerce with her or him, the same growth. The neighbouring parts soon become contaminated; and it is no unfrequent to see the whole of the external female organs thickly covered with them as also the glans penis of the male; and should there chance to be in the l*lMO| phimosis, the warty growths rapidly increase, and distend the prepuce, till at last n bursts, and their protrusion gives the glans a cauliflower-like appearance. The other kind of venereal wart has not the narrow neck nor the leaf-like head, but is brow™ based, not unfrequently sore, and sometimes even having somewhat the character of a shallow badly-skinned ulcer; this form more commonly is noticed when there are—ot have been—sores, having a very chancrous character; and are often observed to exist when decided syphilitic eruptions cover the body. Warts sometimes take on a malignant character, and affect the neighbouring glands, and occasionally they seem to have a malignant character from the very first. I h3Te seen them upon the back of the hand and on other parts of the body; they generally have a broad base and a sort of cauliflower surface, and spread by enlargement of them base; sometimes they are tender and painful, at other times, not so; their head brew* off easily and bleeds freely, and sometimes ulcerates, still, however, retaining the sam warty character.—J. F. S.] 2192. The causes of warts are, for the most part, unknown; local in-i Alienees, as pressure, blows, chafing, and the like, frequently seem <j produce them; their foundation, however, is, in general, constitutions667 TREATMENT. I as they are produced in great numbers in certain persons, and especially on different parts, without any local influence being discovered ; and they recur after having been removed by local remedies. The blood may be in such state that where it touches the skin it may produce warts. 2193. In treating warts it must first be considered whether they depend an any decided internal cause or not, in order to employ the proper A apposite remedies. Besides attention to diet, mercurial remedies, soap, ^ iuid extracts, and resins, are recommended. In using these means, the ■ varts often of themselves, or by the application of external remedies at the I ame time, waste away. Frequently also, at the period of puberty, they irop oft’ without any assistance. 2194. The external remedies advised for treating warts are very inmerous; but they are all alike, in that they may be destroyed by rustic, or removed by tying, or the knife. To the caustics belong the uice of euphorbium, hemlock, sedum acre, strong acetic acid, tincture of •antharides, caustic ammonia, sulphuric acid, hydrochloric acid, butyr of .ntiniony, lunar caustic, and the like, with which the wart is well to be avouched ; and this must be repeated as often as the crust falls off till the i >art is completely destroyed. These remedies are especially applicable, sif the wart have a broad base. If it have a neck, it may be tied with a .hdiread, which must be tightened daily ; or it may be cut off with a knife. ;;:f the wart be thick, ic is best to remove part with the knife, and destroy ©'.he remainder with caustic. It must not be forgotten, however, that in i ms treating warts, unhealthy sores are often produced, and that the *;t;:ars, after using caustic, are more disfiguring than the previous warts. itVarts which are very hard, irregular on their surface, and very painful, ■lisallow the above modes of treatment; and if anything be done, their |^omplete removal, without leaving any of the degeneration, together filth the proper remedies for any general disease connected with them toilUSt. hp Prrmlnwirl , w w uc i cun . scle on which they are seat r ncRens their growth.—J. F. S.][ 668 ] V.—OP CALLOSITIES AND CORNS. (Indurationes et Clavi, Lat.; Schwielen und Huhneraugen, Germ.; Cors, Fr.) 2195. Callosities are more or less circumscribed thickenings of th' epidermis, produced by continued pressure. They are most common! seen on the backs of the toes, on their joints, especially on the last, am between the toes (corns.) They are generally flat, as if pressed into th. skin, are produced slowly, and only when they have become large caus darting pain, under which circumstances the neighbouring parts are in flamed”by the pressure of the callous mass. Sometimes they commenc. with violent pain, especially in persons whose skin is tender. They art more troublesome in warm than in cold weather. The skin is indented in the middle of a corn, and on examination, the corion is often fount perforated. These projections of the epidermis consist of two substances; the upper is dry, it shape like the head of a nail, and formed of layers of epidermis, one upon the other which often readily separate from each other, especially if softened by bathing the feet This substance shows no organization. The other part deeper and semitransparent form! the base of the former, penetrates through the thickness of the skin down to the tendon to the ligament, and even to the bone, upon which it is in a manner rooted, which show: it to have a certain degree of organization. Breschet observed it to be penetrated ii different directions by numerous vessels. It is this which especially causes the pain it changes of the weather, although that is also produced by the pressure of the horny sub- stance upon the surrounding parts, in consequence of which inflammation of its whole extent ensues, and may even spread (Pigne.) The corn is, according to Brodii:, in the beginning, a thickening of the epidermis as a consequence of greater secretion from the cutis from pressure; subsequently a bursa forms; by degrees inflammation of this bum takes place beneath the horny epidermis, in consequence of which it beceimes very pain- ful and runs on to abscess. Rosenbaum (a) explains the origin of this bursa as conse- quence of the closure of the glands of the skin. 2196. The cure of callosities and corns requires, above all things, the removal of pressure from tight shoes, and even from tight stockings; after which they gradually subside of themselves. If the corn be upon the sole of the foot, a felt sole must be worn, with a hole in it, to receive the corn. As palliatives may be used, softening plasters, frequently bathii# the feet, shaving off in slices, or scratching away with the knife or with wetted pumice-stone, the application of a plaster, with a hole in i middle, into which the corn may be received. The complete re»10'al the corn, by dividing the skin around it with two cuts, lifting it up forceps, and extirpating it with the knife or with scissors, "hie i is a attended with considerable pain; also its destruction with caustic; strewing it with different remedies, after previously removing some layer* of the callous mass, are mere palliatives, if the cause, that is, pressure, not removed. Some persons are more subject to corns than others. j The numerous remedies recommended for corns are either softening salves, or irritating and caustic applications, which produce either ^ a« puration, aud throwing out ot the corn, or its destruction. The latter nm ^ objectionable, as they often produce violent inflammation, extensive 3 ,£ neither dancer of eangrene. Also in removing them by slices, care must be taken that:n pahfCn or Weeding arise; and the J also applies to the sub^uent lunar caustic, (Wardrop.) with sals, vit.i: Hokfm , with i«d. t«A». symptoms, gr. xii., antim. mur. 3iv., (Henderson,) and the like, as thereby dangerou u especially in old and gouty persons, may be produced, and the radical c 1 little effected as by extirpation, if the pressure be not removed ^ . warcil,g dangerous consequences after such treatment, and agree with P. 1 Rank de clavis pedum caute secandis. (,n) Allgemein Medic. Zeitung. 1838. No. 60.nan :*.h r* Tf. w feii- VL—OF HORNS. S Cornua, Excrescentia: Cutis Cornea:, Rliinodysmorphia corniculata, Lat.; Hornartige Aitswiichse, Germ.; Comes, Fr.) Journal de Medecine, Chirurgie et Pharmacie de Vandermonde, vol. xiv. 1761. Rudolphi, Ueber Hornbildungen; in Abhandlungen der Berliner Akademie, 1814-15. Ernst, Dissert, de Corneis liumani corporis Excrescentiis. Berol., 1819. Westrdmb; in Horn’s Arckiv., 1828, p. 316. Froriep; in Casper’s Wochenschrift, 1833, p. 412. Bulletin de la Societe Anatomique de Paris, 1835, pp. 98,114,131. Landouzi, Me'moire sur une Corne humaine. Paris, 1836. h Ainsworth, Dissert, de Corneis bumani corporis Excrescentiis. Berol., 1836; cum tab. seneis, iv. r?i Wcstefeld; in Casper’s Wochenschrift, 1836, p. 635. Ebers ; , 1837, p. 567. Steinhaeusen ; in von Graefe und von Walther’s Journal, vol. xxiv. p. 141. I Cruvelhier, Anatomie pathologique, livr. 20. 2197. Horny growths of the skin, and mucous membrane, often rise tfi everal inches above the surface of the skin, and have perfect resemblance 9 3 the horns of beasts. Usually there is only one, but sometimes several t once, or near together; many even are spread over the whole surface f the body, under which circumstances the disease seems to form the ransition to elephantiasis, where a horny substance, in shape of scales or pines, covers the whole or part of the body. These horny growths occur pon the hairy parts of the head, upon the forehead, nose, and cheeks; pon the breast, back, shoulders, arms, and hands; at the beginning of H ie mucous membranes, and on other parts. r Horns have been observed on the hairy part of the head by Fabricius ab Aqua- * endente, Bartholin, Gastellier, Lex, Home, Parkinson, Ansiaux, Piccinelli, 'I aldani, Astley Cooper, Testa, and by myself thrice; on the nose by myself; on ie hands and feet by Borelli, Lachmdnd, Dolceds, Denis, Marc, Otto, Lages • i the thighs by Dumarceau and Carradois.; on the face by Borelli, Riverius’ a -at and on the tongue, by Breschet; on the red edge of the lip by JaegerJ; on the > side of the prepuce, on a scar, after the operation for phimosis, by Dieffenbach • ‘ > the glans penis by Reghellini, Bonioli, Caldani, Ebers, Richard-Destru’ R RESciiet, and Meckel. For an account of the most important early observations ■ such horny growth see Samuel Cooper (a). I [Erasmus Wilson (6) has given an interesting statistical account of horns which ■> ve grown on the human body, having “ succeeded in obtaining ninety cases: of which •Arty-four were females, and thirty-nine males; of the remainder the sex is not rationed. Of this number forty-eight were seated on the head, four on the face four he nose, eleven on the thigh, three on the leg and foot, six on the back, five on the I Z fZT’ 7 re°ri the, tnmk,of the body- The greater frequency of this dis- icuouMv'1ifCm eS Gan -maleS 18 adm'tted by a11 autb°rs; but this fact is most con- icuously shown in the instance of the thigh and of the head; for examnle of the ' ’hraffmiSnfffth°rihy g1rowth,from the tbigh. two only were males; and of the forty- rlmv • g h hLea< ’ twenty-seven occurred in females, and nineteen in males • in is affechon6- tht‘iT bt’ng unmentioiied- That old age is a predisposing cause of of fortV ’• PK?Ved ^ the greater frequency of its occurrence in elderly persons; TeaLvT.U 8 -. cases/u^h'ch the scalp was the seat of the growth, thirty-eight above the mid period of life: several wereov«r ...,,i ° Tr, Zy°ung persons, and three infants.” (pp. G4, 65.) *n the Museum at St. Thomas’s Hospital there ") First Lines of Surgery, p. 34f>. Edition of 1840. are three examples of horns from the (63 Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. xxvii. 1844.670 HORNS; human body, two of which are tiiose referred to by Astley Cooper ; the larger on which is about ten inches long, with a base an inch in diameter, and tapering towan the tip ; it grew on the upper part of a man’s head, and is twisted towards its extremit somewhat like a ram’s horn; it was removed, together with its root, by Dr. Roots, i j Kingston-on-Thames, after a growth of seven years, and had been preceded by one t three inches long, which had sprung up from the scar of a tumour, of what kind is m j mentioned, which had been removed, and after growing four years, fell off, or probabl * was pushed off, as the patient was lifting his hat from his head ; leaving “ the surfatJ) from which it dropped,” says Roots, “perfectly smooth, and free from any discharg whatever. In a few months a new horn began to appear,” &c. (p. 234); the horn is no J in our Museum. The other horn, which Astley Cooper speaks of, was from the pule about an inch in length, conical, and three quarters broad at its base and of an ov't ■; shape. The third case was a patient of my own, who had two of these horns growin j from the left side of the scrotum f one rather larger than the other, about the size of tt little finger, and two-thirds of its length ; one dropped off whilst he was in the hous-J leaving a sore surface; and I intended removing the other, but he took fright when ; was proposed to him, and went away. The Museum of the Pathological Society c Dublin possesses two horns of considerable size, which grew for six years on the uppe; lip of a man about sixty years of age, and were removed by Pierce (a). In the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons of England there are two yer remarkable horns, which were purchased at the sale of Sir Ashton Lever’s collection and marked, “ supposed to be excrescences from the human head,” which is unfoi tunately all the history of them. That they are, however, human there can be n doubt, as on the larger one a few short hairs remain, which, on examination with th microscope, presented all the characters of human hair. They are conical and slight! contracted at their base, as if they had been girt somewhat by the aperture throug: which they protruded; or as if a groove had been formed round them preparatory t falling off, as in the shedding of stags’ horns. The larger is three and a half inche. long, and the smaller only one and three quarters; but the greatest diameter of both i an inch and a quarter. The smaller one has been sawn through vertically, and present a solid bony core, surrounded by a brownish horny substance, varying from one and A half to three lines in thickness, and so completely covering it, that all connexion between the core and any other bony part must have been impossible. The characters of tht core, in all respects, even with the aid of the microscope, prove its semblance to healura compact bone.] 2198. These horny growths are partial luxuriances of the epidermis, o of the mucous lining of an encysted tumour, when the horny substance i deposited in a sebaceous bag (tumor sebaceus.) In the first case, the; sometimes begin without any pain or decided cause, or after some sort o irritation, as a little elevation in the skin, with branny surface, with itch ing, burning, or shooting. After the branny surface is thrown off, then appears a small, hard, more or less convex swelling, of a white or gra; colour, which grows more or less quickly ; in exact relation with its en* largement, it becomes harder, conical, shrivelled, twisted in a spiral shapes exactly like a brute’s horn, from one to twelve inches long, and sev®J inches round, is hardest at the tip, grayish or dusky on the surface, rough* and sometimes covered with hairs. In the second case, a nail or horn-li't substance is secreted in an encysted tumour, (tumor sebaceus,) "hie bursts the skin, hardens, and protrudes in proportion as more of the sub- stance is secreted by the tumour. 'When these growths have attained great size, or are periodical, at a certain time of year they are thrown o • and for the most part recur, or leave ulcers behind them. [Of the mode in which these horns are formed from a previously obstructed Erasmus Wilson (6) has given a very good description, showing how the »»on o) accumulations may become converted into horn. lie saysFrom the torput ‘; (ht.r? the skin, or from the nature of the contents of the cells, or from both causes togeU ^ the sebaceous substance collects within the follicle, becomes impacted, and acquire* abnomal degree of density. In this situation the impacted mass exerts so great (n) Dublin Journal of Medical Science, vol. xvi. p. 329. 1839. (W Above cited.THEIR CAUSE. 671 unount of pressure on the vascular walls of the follicle as to abrogate its special func- iou, and the peculiar elements of the sebaceous secretion, cease to be produced. The 'orniation of epithelium, however, still continues, and layer after layer of epithelial scales ire developed, until the mass acquires considerable size. Tumours of this kind, from he nature of the position of the sebaceous follicle, namely, within the corium, rarelv icquire a large size as compared with tumours in other situations. They are prevented rom pressing inwards by the deep stratum of the corium; the same structure opposes heir increase outwardly or laterally. Nevertheless, I have seen a tumour of this kind, finch measured three quarters of an inch in diameter, but not more than a quarter of n inch in thickness. The aperture of the follicle remains open, and is more or less dis- ended in proportion to the extent of the tumour; but from the nature of the collection, here is no tendency to its escape. I have called such tumours sebaceous accumulations. lertaiu minute tumours, commonly met with in clusters, around and upon the eyelids,' ebaceous miliary tubercles, are of the same pathological nature with the sebaceous Accumulations, but in these the excretory follicle is closed. The peculiar patho- logical character of the tumours just described, is their laminated texture, and the identity of structure of their contents with epidermis, most, if not all, of the peculiar J onstituents of sebaceous substance being absent. * * * If now, in the cases l bove recited, we imagine the upper wall of the laminated tumour to be removed, and ^jhe accumulated substance exposed to the influence of the atmosphere, any moisture i, etained by the epithelial lamina: would soon become dissipated, and the whole mass Lfould acquire the consistence and hardness of epidermis of equal thickness; in other ■Aords, it would be converted into horn. Such a case as I am now supposing, does some- a mes m reality occur. The aperture of the follicle acquires an unusual decree of dila- ■ition, and some of the hardened contents of the tumour are pressed through the open- i Jg- By the addition of fresh layers from below, (the formative power having increased Wj tae removal of superficial pressure,) the indurated mass is still further forced out- ■mras, dilating the aperture as with a wedge, and finally increasing its size to that of the i -atire base of the hypertrophied follicle. The process of formation of new epithelial Sayers by the walls of the follicle (now become the base of the mass) will go on, unless Interrupted by surgical means, for years, and in this manner those singular bodies of Hlnch so many examples are on record, horns, are produced.” (p. 57-59.)] ff 2199. The proximate cause of these growths is a perverse and increased ihcretion of the vascular net of the skin, of the mucous membranes or of h ie internal surface of encysted tumours. They are most usually pro- ■iuced in persons of advanced age, and their immediate cause is con- binued irritation of the skin, or of the mucous membrane by kicks, blows ■ mating, wounds, scars, eruptions on the skin, and the like; or they are in I . relation with suppressed menstruation, rheumatism, and gout J • rickets. Most cases, however, show that persons affected with these (f -owths are in otherwise sound health ; and even when they are thrown ? there is usually no disturbance of the constitution. I obsfyed,in a f°Yth of this kind> which was an inch high I M form ih c m ha f r°Und lts,base' hard and dusky, from its base to its tip, that it r?Tgingmfr0m the base t0 the dP’ aild which at bottom were I ~ atyrt ,by fdt’ so as t0 have the appearance of ordinary fibrous tissue The ;,rVhe, “r be“”in,6 c;^r *'» <ip.m“,i;sg”vishThbLf ard ; thfy were also less soft and white as they approached the surface. 1 Jh f ,ySl y separated at the root, and were continuous with the fibres of the skin I Ie hairs1 W f‘Ct °f, VeS8jls belnS also Present, led him to believe that they were' not °t the/br0as tissue‘ MebcIER supposed R 4 d intermediate fluid ’ AncnrP * '? hardness depended on the evaporation of the fat seised secretion but of act,a 0TfdmV° h's. not'on; so.me horns are not the result of dis- I Ch hornc •? V “ • * actual transformation of the skin. Hairs may however exist in I be formed of conglomSi SWfd!ln.gS’ but the ho.™ must not therefore be considered i oonn ir conglom<-ration of hair, as supposed by some persons. | formed °f thes? ,ll0rny £rowths proves that their base I ore particular^ ™T’ f , f1" r°0t USUally’ in ,Tlucous membranes | P Cularly’ consists of a lardy, vascular tissue, similar to the matrix («) Bullet. tic In Socicte Anntomkiuo do Paris. 1835, p. 114-131.BONY GROWTHS. 672 of a nail (Jaeger); upon this is a substance composed of paralii fibres, which increases in hardness and density near the surface and ti: jj the fibres are fewer towards the centre, and separated by a soft fatty ma;; which is in greatest quantity at the root. The density and hardness of 11 growth are in direct relation with its dark colour; both are least in t . middle and towards the base. These growths are held to be identic j with the substance of nail, and the spurs of gallinaceous birds, whit i is confirmed by chemical examination, being composed of the same su ; stances as the horns of beasts, excepting the antlers of deer, which conta more than a fourth of their weight of gelatine, and have oxygenate albumen as their principal element. Their colour, hardness, and traiv parency depend on the carbon, phosphate of lime, and glue-like substan.ij which they contain (Jaeger.) 2201. In their treatment, their cause must be removed by prop , remedies, preparations of antimony and quicksilver, by baths, decoctio of woods, Zittmann’s decoction, and the like. It has been noticed th' they drop off, under the use of purgatives. If this do not howevq happen, the sound skin must be divided by two semilunar cuts, and the ho) with its root extirpated, in doing which everything in and beneath tl skin, which has degenerated, and is discoloured, or suspicious must be car fully removed. With this object it may be advisable even to cautpri? the wound, so as to produce an issue, and to employ proper after-treatmen The merely cutting short these growths, by sawing or filing, in gener; causes their increased growth ; and also tearing them out, when the coi nexion of their root is not very great, is objectionable on account of tl: pain and the uncertain results. VII.—OF BONY GROWTHS. (Tumores Ossium, Lat.; Knochenauswiichse, Germ.; Tumeurs des Os, Fr.) Matani, Observationes de Ossium Tumoribus. Colon., 1765. Herrmann, Dissert, de Osteosteatomate. Lipsia;, 1767. Houstel, Sur les Exostoses des Os Cylindriques; in Memoires de f Academic d Chirurgie, vol. iii. p. 130. Bonn, Tabula; Ossium Morbosorum, prsecipue Thesauri Hoviani. Lugd. Batav 1788. von IIeekeren, De Osteagenesi prseternaturali. Lugd. Bat., 179/. Vollmar, Beobachtungen liber die Knochenspechgescliwulst; in Loder s Joarnft fur die Chirurgie, u. s. w., vol. iii. p. 46. Boyer, Traite' des Maladies Chirurgicales, vol. iii. p. 543. Otto, Seltene Beobachtungen zur Anatomie, Physiologie und Pathologie zehons Breslau, 1816. Cooper, Astley, On Exostosis; in his and Travers’s Surgical Essays, part London, 1818. Third Edition. Pech, Osteosarcoma, ejusque speciei insignis descriptio, etc. Wirceb., 1819. Dietei,, Comment. Anatom. Pathol, de Osteosteatomate. Lips., 1822. Miescher, De Inflammatione Ossium. Berol., 1836. 4to. Richter, A. L., Die Organischen Knochenkrankheiten. Berlin, 1839. Also the general observations on Diseases of Bone, by Petit, Dcverney, PaUA ■ Boettcher, Bertrandi and Closius.673 . KINDS OF BONY GROWTHS. ffi 2202. Bony growths form swellings of greater or less extent, which § arise from the surface or interior of the bone, and in which the texture of the bone either remains natural, or the enlarged bone becomes unusually l firm, hard, ivory like, or loosened up, spongy, and partially converted into a fleshy or lardy mass. According to these various conditions are distin- guished true bony growths, (exostosis,) bone-flesh or bone-lard growths, (iosteosarcoma, osteosteatoma,') and spina ventosa. 2203. These diseased changes of bone may originate in the periosteum, in the bony tissue itself, or in the medullary membrane. Their general origin is an inflammatory condition of the periosteum, of the medullary membrane, or of the membrane lining the bone-cells, which swell by the 11 larger deposition of the juices, and secrete a plastic matter, which by the laws of the natural growth of bone, is converted into bony substance. Or f there is an unnatural growth of the bony tissue, or there is produced in the cells, a fleshy, lard-like or gelatinous substance, which absorbs the mass of the bone, and converts it wholly or in great part into a lardy . or fleshy substance. The causes exciting this inflammatory condition, are either external violence or dyscrasic diseases, especially syphilis, scrofula and gout. According to the chronic or acute character of this inflamma- tion, and the variety of the causes on which it depends, does the course and issue of this diseased change of bone vary. True Exostosis (Exostosis proprie sic dicta, Lat.; eigentliche [Knochenaustvuchs, Germ.) is a more or less circumscribed tumour arising ■itrom a bone, and depending on an unnatural increase of the bony subl "(Stance. This tumour is sometimes confined to one part merely of the tone, and attached to it by a thin neck or by a broad base; at other limes, it springs up without any definite boundary; and sometimes occupies the whole extent of the bone, under which circumstance in tubular bones, the medullary cavity is in general lessened, or completely destroyed. Some exostoses consist of a great development of the bony tissue itself, arise from the medullary membrane, or from the cellular •tructure of the bone; some form over its whole extent, between the bone tseii and the periosteum. )f,nPCCw'”8 ex?stosis “ever arises from the interior substance of the line o?2e ZllSS k US e,Xte'’nal surface i bet™ it and the exostosis, a fine •ells of til h H/ f• 16 b°ne f0TS the boundalT i this is gradually absorbed, so that the the exoMf wldXifrf partially, or completely connected with those of the bone. But •ouseaueno,. nfh developed between the periosteum and the bone, is oftentimes the b011VisSUe .hself’and sPryads the interior nd th.. t„ ter °r 0 bone ,In tbls ease the periosteum is only secondarily changed S pard,ha„d“riv^S Thol hf8® SUD,k |.Ut0 tbeus,lbstance of the bone, is commonly - ike t0 a t -v.4 d.e substance of the mother-bone is compact, hard and ivory - eum itself l °r CSS dePtb; nIn other instances the tumour springs from the perios- ■ »; mJLLapiastc s. ' w,h,ch bony at the same .toe, and in .he •ated by the internal nWof tbl ° boi,10‘ Sometimes these deposits are sepa- »one itself- at other tunes tin. Pe™osleum> and are then more or less movable upon the hange. These exostoses ir! 1 ^ bi,m y attached to the bone, which itself exhibits no '■/‘frequently^SiwffSe y ^ ^ and ra-rely iv0I7;like- They are not T l to them. (Pigne ) * enc^s^ tumours, which by their pressure have given wellino- hJ'nnf"i!*1 na' condition of exostosis varies; sometimes if the •ony fibres i« l . ar^ei a.n(^ ie.ori the surface of the bone, a net-work of >jsu\c , in the interspaces of which a new mass of bone is 1 VOL. li. («) Harulworterbuch, vol. ii. p. 507. 2 x674 EXOSTOSIS; deposited ; sometimes the interior of the swelling presents rather a lami nated structure, sometimes the hardness of the exostosis is greater tha that of the healthy bone; it presents in its interior a regular compact mas like ivory, and is either smooth upon its surface or has distinct studdings I To these must he certainly considered to belong those bony tumours which Astle Cooper has described as Cartilaginous Exostosis of the Medullary Membrane; Scarpa (e 1 as Exostosis maligna; Otto (b) and von Waether (c) as Osteosteatoma; Jony Muller (d) has described it most minutely in all its relations, as Enchondron (Sarcorn *i aartilagineum, Tumor cartilagineus.) He speaks of a good kind of swelling of th bone, or even of the soft parts; for instance, of the glands, which form a spheroids ! tumour, not lobulated, and acquiring the size of a fist, or larger. When in th’ soft parts it has a thin covering of cellular tissue, but in bone, where it occurs mo> frequently, it appears like a soft expansion of the bone overspread with periosteum, th expansion being either developed from within, with a bladder-like expansion of thta thinned shell of the bone ; or more rarely it appears to be produced from the exterio ; of the bone, and then is not necessarily enveloped in a bony shell. In the former cas-i the bladder-like expansion of the periosteum forms a sort of shell, enclosing the sol - mass ; sometimes there are merely single, isolated, insular, thin patches of bone. Th joint-surfaces of the bone are generally in this disease either not at all or but littl changed ; even when a phalanx of the finger enlarges to a tumour of the size of a lemoi and round, the joint-surfaces usually continue natural. The parts over the swelling ii i general remain unaltered, although they be much expanded. Now and then the slov painless development of the tumour, as well as the constitution continuing healthy for ten or twenty years, lead to the notion that the swelling is not malignant. The content of the tumour are soft, in and upon the bone in general, with interwoven projections o • spongy substance, which, however, may be entirely deficient. The parenchyma o the tumour usually presents, on being cut into, two elementary parts, distinguishable with the naked eye, of fibro-membranous, and a gray slightly transparent substance: similar to cartilage or tough jelly. The fibro-membranous part, which is rarely want- ing, forms small or large cells, of the size of peas, or larger ; and in the larger, smaller cells are often developed. In their cavities is a grayish, rather transparent substancer distiuguished from cartilage by its softness, and rather resembling the soft hyaline, oi glass-like cartilage, existing in some fishes, and sometimes even like tough jelly. This substance may be easily shelled out of the cavities, and can be readily broken up. When put in spirit of wine it still retains its slightly transparent character. The more transparent cartilaginous substance is massed together by partitions of membranous structure, and such conglomeration is peculiar to the enchondrom, and does not occur in other swellings of bone. If the mass seem free on the surface little elevations are noticed, which show the conglomeration externally. Microscopic examination shows' that the fibro-membranous part consists of transparent net-like fibres; the glassy mass, completely resembles cartilage, and exhibits oval, round, semi-transparent cartilaginous corpuscles spread about in it. After boiling from ten to twelve hours, the enchondrv*• of bone gives out a considerable quantity of gluten, which, on cooling, becomes well gelatinized, but in its chemical properties is entirely different from common gluten colla, but on the contrary, agrees with the peculiar gluten of cartilaginous fishes, the) cartilage gluten, or chondrin, described by Muller. The chemical examination of the. enchondrom of soft parts presents a difference, as on boiling the common chondrin, but then even no chondrin contains, on the contrary, a considerable quantity of jellying gluten. Usually the existence of enchondrom proceeds from external causes, as bnnsesi and the like, and this happens most commonly in childhood. I have, however, seen i in the metacarpal bone of the thumb of an aged man, in whom it first arose at a late period, and whose cure was permanent after its extirpation. A general cause of tn disease is ordinarily not to be found, although tumours of this kind often occurring 10 different parts may lead to such conclusion, but the cure is usually permanent an® amputation. I have noticed this also after the removal of an enchondrom of the testic , and in the upper third of the upper arm. The development of enchondrom is in general without pain, and may so arise and continue increasing for a long while. If ^rom,|^« cause inflammation be set up in the swelling, it proceeds to suppuration, the swell g bursts, and the bone becomes necrotic. (a) De Expansione Ossitim, &c. ; in his lie Physiologic, und Pathologie gehorig, P- 22 Anatome et Pathologifi Ossimn Comraentarii. 182-!. , „ . . , , „„„nhcilkunde, Ticini, 1827. 4to. Ce) Journal furChirurgie and Augenhe ( 61 Neue Soltonc Beobachtungen air Anatomic, vol. xiii. part iii. (cl) Above cited, p. 31.675 ITS CAUSES, SYMPTOMS, AND DIAGNOSIS. An interesting case of extirpation of the finger with its metacarpal bone, at the 4 carpus, is given by Walther (a). Muller (b) has also collected the various observa- nt tions on enchondrom, and it has also been written on by J. Herz (c). 2206. Exostoses may arise in all bones, but they most frequently appear on the compact parts of tubular bones, and on flat bones, in the middle of the thigh, of the shin-bone, the upper-arm-bone, the radius and ulna, and ; on the bones of the skull, but rarely in the neighbourhood of the spongy joint-ends of bones. The proximate cause of exostosis is a change of the nutritive process of the bone from inflammation, in consequence of which a large quantity of phosphate of lime is deposited in the bony tissue, and upon this its enlargement depends. The time required for its i development seems correspondent with that for the natural formation of I bone and callus, as its substratum is at first soft, and only at a later period hardens. The occasional causes which bring about this inflammation are, ■.■as already generally noticed, either external violence or internal disease, ►especially syphilis, gout, and scrofula. There may be so remarkable •predisposition to exostosis, or an increasing deposit of bony substance, that ivery inconsiderable external violence may favour its formation’ (d). Syphilis in general produces, especially as consequence of inflammatory ■affection of f lip 'tTiPT*! n.Q't'PI/'YVi cnnorflniol J / /~1 . ht t • Edit, of 2x2676 PROGNOSIS AND TREATMENT OF EXOSTOSIS. the substance forming it, and the part of the bone where it has bee || originally developed, is founded on the following circumstances. Idiopa !; thic is distinguished from syphilitic, and scrofulous exostosis by the pre< vious violence, and by the absence of the symptoms which syphilitic oJ scrofulous disease manifests. Syphilitic exostosis is always accompanied b; tj the symptoms of general and inveterate syphilis, with nightly pains of thf| bones, is mostly situated in bones covered with little soft parts, and usually i arises on the surface of the bone. Scrofulous exostosis is accompanies with the general symptoms of scrofulous disease, and is mostly situatec in the deeper bony tissue and the spongy joint-ends of bones. Slov development of the exostosis leads to the expectation of a firm, ivory-likw nature ; whilst a quicker progress, accompanied with much pain, points ti a less firm structure. These symptoms are not, however, certain. Whew ulceration has taken place, it may be ascertained with the probe, or witl the finger, from the condition of the parts. 2209. The prognosis of exostosis is in general unfavourable ; it i; most favourable, however, in the idiopathic kind, if it acquire a certain: size, remain stationary, and is only inconvenient by its size and weight Syphilitic and scrofulous exostoses are always accompanied with a high degree of constitutional ailment; they may pass into malignant ulceration which wastes the powers. 2210. The treatment is guided by the various causes and condition o: the swelling. If syphilis or scrofula be at its root, the remedies opposeo to these must be employed. If the pain be considerable, leeches, rubbing with mercurial ointment and opium, softening poultices with opium, ano the like. The dispersion of a true exostosis is never to be expected from the various dispersing remedies which have been recommended for ex- ternal use, as hemlock, mercurial, and ammoniacal plaster, Schmcckers. plaster, rubbing in volatile salves, long-continued blistering ; they may rather, by their irritation, set up inflammation in the skin, increase the pain, and even encourage the enlargement of the swelling. In generah the progress of the disease is not arrested either by general or local treat- ment. When these remedies have actually dispersed bony swellings, they were doubtless only inflammatory swellings of the periosteum. 2211. In idiopathic exostosis, the further increase of the swelling ma), perhaps, at the onset, be prevented, by bloodletting, and the continued^ use of cold applications, and afterwards by dispersing remedies; its sizer may also, perhaps, be diminished. 2212. If the exostosis be void of pain, if it do not enlarge, nor incon- venience the patient, or if situated on any part where mechanic^, treatment is improper, it is advisable to let it alone. But if the swellings be very inconvenient to the patient, and if its situation admit of me*1' chanical treatment, the only remedy is its removal. This requires tned exposure of the swelling by a crucial cut, or by two semilunar cuts at i I base, and its separation with a fine saw, or with a chisel and hammer. the exostosis be firm and large, it must be removed piecemeal; a horizon cut with the saw being met by a vertical one. The treatment of the 1 consists either in bringing together its edges, if the part wh®nce .]d swelling has been removed be sound, or in the application of a ; dressing, as has been described in wounds of bone with loss of substan • If the size of the swelling permit not its removal, amputation of the must be performed.677 OSTEOSTEATOMA AND OSTEOSARCOMA. In most cases the removal of exostosis is best effected by Hey’s, Macheli.’s (a), ij' or Graefe’s (6) saw, and Heine’s bone-knife. I When the position of the exostosis will not permit its removal in the above manner, instead of proceeding to amputation, its absorption should be encouraged by removing the periosteum from the swelling, in consequence of which its vessels are pulled ouc. This plan of treatment is at least recommended by Asteey Cooper (c). On the side of the nail, especially of the great toe, tumours not unfrequently arise i which are hard and immovable, covered with a glossy skin, their interior as hard as the bone from which they arise, and they are mostly seated on a broad base. They cause considerable inconvenience in walking ; after extirpation they soon recur, and the only remedy is the removal of the whole phalanx. 2213. Osteosteatoma and Osteosarcoma (Knoclienspeck und Knochen- jieisch-Geschivulst, Germ.) and Spina ventosa ( Winddorn, Germ.) I must be considered as allied diseased conditions, inasmuch as in both there is an enlargement of the bone deviating from its natural condition, with which its nature is completely changed and converted into a fun- gous, fleshy, jelly- cartilage- fibre- medulla- fat- or lard-like substance, in i which are found larger or smaller pieces of bone of various shape. 2214. -The causes of osteosteatoma and osteosarcoma are partly ex- t ternal, partly internal; to the former belong violence of all kinds; to the latter, an ill condition of the juices, venereal, scrofulous, rheumatic, l and gouty diseases. Boyer and others suppose that osteosarcoma is of I similar nature to carcinomatous degeneration of soft parts, and support s a 1 1 | pi | 1819. ' * T (c) Above cited. (*0 JL Liston, On the Cure of Exostosis of the Inst, 1 halunges of the Toes by excision of the Diseased llone; in Edinburgh Med. and Sure. Journal, vol. xxvi. p. 27. 182(5.SPINA VENTOSA. 678 the skin is tense, sometimes inflames, at last bursts, hectic fever is set up and the patient’s powers are broken up. The ulceration may run into s i cancer-like ulcer. Many differences, however, present themselves in the progress of osteosarcoma and osteosteatoma; the pain is sometimes very 1 severe at the onset, and diminishes or entirely subsides afierwards; somerj times the disease remains in one definite state, and the pain ceases; some •.< times the pain prevails with equal severity from the beginning to the enn « of the disease. It is self-evident that from the situation of the disease^ from its spreading, and from the neighbourhood of important organs symptoms may be produced. 2217. The external condition of the tumour varies; sometimes it L, confined by well-marked bounds to one part of the bone, sometimes 1 involves the whole bone. In general, osteosteatoma and osteosarcoma] have no precisely defined limits, but are gradually lost in the neighbouring^ parts; the swelling does not entirely resist the pressure of the finger, bui shows rather some elasticity, and at several parts a seeming fluctuation, by which it is distinguished from exostosis. 2218. The treatment of osteosteatoma and osteosarcoma precisely agree?- with that of exostosis. At first, if merely pain be present, remedies op-, posed to the cause of the disease must be employed, in connexion with blood-letting, cold applications and the like upon the affected part, for its somewhat possible prevention. These are the only remedies which can be employed for its control, when the swelling has already made some pro- gress ; however, usually, no advantage is thereby gained, and time is merely lost in the progressive increase of the swelling. The alone remedy, if the seat and condition of the disease permit, is the removal of the swelling with the saw, or with the chisel and hammer, or the amputation of thefe limb if tumour have attained considerable size, or the whole bone bet affected. Where possible, the amputation should be performed above the next joint. The prognosis always remains in other respects doubtful, because in most cases the disease again shows itself on the scar, or on some other parUJ 2219. Spina ventosa or Pcedarthrocace ( Winddom, Germ.) is a swel- ling partially or entirely occupying the whole extent of the bone, tolerably equal and regular, in which the nature of the bony tissue is in \anoust ways conditioned. Sometimes a regular, firm bony crust, which isj perforated at different parts, forms the exterior of the swelling, m ten cavities of which a cartilaginous mass is found with irregular, isola • or attached bony growths. Sometimes the external wall of this swelling-I is formed merely of very much expanded periosteum•, and the substances within, as in the former case. Sometimes tlve interior contains one <>r>fl several cavities, filled with variously coloured ichorous fluid, a reddis ' gelatinous substance, or with decomposed and clotted blood. In the wal s of these cavities is found sometimes a cartilaginous, sometimes a lar^ like substance, sometimes necrosed or carious pieces of bone, which mus j be considered partly as the remains of the destroyed original bone, an j partly as a new production (a). . . 2220. This disease always declares itself a longer or shorter time m the swelling appears, by dull deep pain in the bone, which is set up «> of its own accord, or after some external violence. 1 he swelling a either as a conical or spherical knob, or as a regular swelling, mci (n) Delpech, Pri-cis ElemenUirp, vol iii. p. 3s3.RICHARD WISEMAN’S DESCRIPTION OF SPINA VENTOSA. 679 the whole circumference of the bone. The pain is of varying severity, and often increases to a very considerable degree as the swelling increases. The soft parts surrounding the bone swell up, the skin becomes painful, red, thins at the most elevated parts, bursts and discharges an ichorous fluid. The edges of the ulcerated aperture thin and drop inwards, whilst the rest of the swelling retains its size and consistence. A probe passed through this opening can with ease be carried deeply in every direction, penetrating the cartilaginous substance, and but little arrested by the fra- gile pieces of bone. From the discharge of the juices, and the absorption of the ichorous fluid hectic symptoms arise at an earlier or later period ; fungous excrescences spring out of the apertures, are exceedingly sensi- ,■ tive, bleed easily, and increase the exceedingly severe pain. [Our celebrated countryman, Richard Wiseman, has given (a) a very excellent de- i ’ scnption of Spina ventosa, of which he says:—“ It hath been taken notice of by very few »; authors, and I myself succeeded happily in the curing those in the lesser Bones, many i ; years before I knew what name to call the Disease. And in truth I do not now greatly f * a iprove of the name, but shall acquiesce in it and represent it to you, as I have fre- ts quently seen it in my Practice in the King’s-Evill, it being a certain species of that Dis- ease, and of no other that I ever saw. It taketh it’s beginning from a thin acid serum in sol the medullary juice, which corroding the Fibres maketh a solution of continuity there, and at length corrupteth the interior part of the Bone, and at last (if not prevented) cor- 1 rodes the Shell, and passeth it’s subtill Humour through some porosity it had made. This Disease of the interior part, by degrees usually so affecteth the externall Shell of the Bone, as to raise it to a preternatural! Tumour, which, at the same time, overstretch- ing the Periosteum causeth an uneasiness ; and this Pain if it grow so acute as to produce Inflammation, an Abscess consequently followeth. If the Bone be spungy and soft, it is wonderful 1 to see how quickly the Fibres of it will be mollified by the influence of the ■s serum of the Blood, and made apt for a sudden Distension, as if the part were rather >musculare than Bone. So in childrens Fingers, I have seen a Bone swelled in a night, U and the like Tumour raised in the spongy Bones of elder persons in few days, without tvinuch difficulty to yield again to exsiccant Remedies. Yet it sometimes happeneth, that Wthejnterior part of the Bone is totally corrupted without any externall Tumefaction or Pains, till the acid Humour maketh its way through the cortex, and eroding the Perios- teum. causeth a solution of continuity there; which by access of pain swelleth and in- Tlamptn t no ovfnvnnll nrwl T\nnrliiAr>4Vi 1 X’ J rm • .i ipameth the externall Parts, and produceth Maturation in few days. Those in the pro- tuberant Bones do also frequently raise Abcesses after the same manner, and sometimes whilst the exteriour Parts suffer under another Ulcer different from this. Somewhat of rvitt, • tvA 7 , ~ , uiuc.cmuum uns. oumewnai or < hr n ■ renCeS 1 have showed y°u in the preceding lines, others may be taken from . e Quality of the serum. In some there is a sudden Tumour raised in a night, in others b»it swelleth gradually, and never corrupteth externally. In others the Humour pierceth jji#through the cortex, and raiseth suddenly an Abseess. And these Differences may be said : to arise somewhat from the Place or Bone they affect: for, accordingly as the mteriour o part of it is softer or harder, or the externall cortex is solid or porous, so it suffers Soul- s' .“ sooner or later. Those of the cranium for the most part pass their way through the USl0Ur l“m]na and affect the dura mater, *c., producing great Pains, Convulsions, Epilepsies, and they die before the Disease is discovered. In the great Bones KllvH-Kneea AnuU1’ Elbo'vs’. &c> the3’ Pass their Matter slowly, and are more gene- In th<TnT^.wlth„AP^teniat'0.,,s. e.xternally arising from the protuberance of them. ? iin inc (J8 tali or Heelbone. which is snnmrv within onri r.,11 n ,1 ■Atho \ T' V spina ventosa I have already delivered you |a Alrlltyrl‘n ian9"\7.,is |n tbe Bone. The most visible Signs of itYre HorPp£ tk f B°"eS WIt l0Ut d!scolounng of the Skin, and often without Tumour , tthem thev P°femat,,0nS Proc“d,"6 fr0m the SPina ventosa do most certainly shew lluSn mL n ?;ayS bet^een *he Membranes and Tendons, and somewhat of Fluc- j .apon On^nfn / her,' before the externall Skin be considerably inflamed: also if CSl y0!’ m:Vke se"ch w'th a Probe, you will find it penetrate deep into the i.tnallv' and if th . n 'X if *i " ntc ’ 'fhereas the other Abscesses do always begin exter- y’ lc P°ne he bare, yet is it only superficially carious or stained by the (c) Severall Cliirtirgical Treatises. London, IG7(i. fol.. 680 CAUSE AND TREATMENT OF SPINA VENTOSA. Matter. The Cure of the Spina ventosa in the lesser Bones, as the Cranium, Jaw Fingers, and Toes is feasable ; but those in the bigger Bones are for the most partdeploi able. Infants and Children are generally the subject of this Disease.” (pp. 262, 63.)] | 2221. The ground of Spina ventosa lies in an inflammation and ulcera tion of the medullary membrane of the bone, upon which depends the de struction of the bone from within outwards. The most common cause c* this complaint is scrofula, although also syphilis, gout, rachitis, scurvy small-pox, and the like, as well as external violence, particularly bruised and concussions may give rise to it. The tubular bones, especially tli metacarpal, metatarsal, and finger bones, are most frequently attacked b> this disease ; but very rarely are the short and spongy bones, as the carpa and tarsal affected with it. The degeneration of the spongy ends of bones which has been considered with the different affections of the joints;) { par. 221,) may indeed be placed, together with Spina ventosa, in the coma pact structure of tubular bones. In most cases, especially in the finger ano metacarpal bones of scrofulous persons, Spina ventosa consists in tuber cular formation in the bone, and according to the degree of softening ir the tubercular mass, does the nature of the contents of the swelling vary Hence the death of the bone is caused to a definite extent, and on its throwing off does the cure first commence. In this disease, ordinarily, no new bone is produced, probably because the periosteum and the medullary membrane of the bone are destroyed. Hence also the bone,: after the cure of the disease, is considerably shorter, and the correspond* ing finger drawn backwards. 2222. From the symptoms which accompany the development and* further progress of Spina ventosa, the distinction between it and exostosis, ' osteosteatoma, or osteosarcoma, must, in many cases, be very difficult., Spina ventosa may indeed be distinguished from exostosis, inasmuch as it involves the whole circumference, whilst exostosis is more cir-' cumscribed and confined to one definite part of the bone; the irregu- larities, however, which Spina ventosa at first exhibits, and the thicknessof the soft parts covering it, render the certain knowledge of the difference - between them very difficult. In regard to external form, Spina ventosa, for the most part, agrees with osteosteatoma and osteosarcoma; its deve- lopment, however, is in most cases more tedious than in both those dis- • eases, and the pain is more severe and constant. 2223. Spina ventosa is a disease of importance, slow and difficult to cure, and proportionally more so when attacking adults. In general its treatment corresponds at the commencement of the disease with that already directed for exostosis, osteosteatoma, and osteosarcoma. Suitable remedies must be employed to counteract the internal causes, and the great hope in young persons, when the disease has originated in scrofula- rests on the use of antiscrofulous remedies; and by the often occurring . total change of the constitution, at the period of puberty, the cure may be brought about, under which circumstances the necrosed pieces am thrown off from the diseased bone, and the fistulous openings close. Poultices of aromatic herbs, of decoction of savine, baths of camomile, of hemlock, and the like, serve for local applications If the tumour have burst, aromatic baths anil poultices must be employed, and a free outflow given to the pus. For assuaging the very severe pain, frequen poulticing with hemlock, sometimes with the addition of opium, must H“ ' employed ; but if the disease have reached such degree that the powersFORMATION OF TUBERCLE IN BONE. 68 L (c) I have translated this abstract from Pion6. .1. F. S. 0f the patient are failing under hectic symptoms, amputation is the only . hope. Laying bare, boring holes in the bony tumour, as also the applica- te tion of acrid remedies, or even of the actual cautery, for the destruction g of the diseased bone, are improper. The formation of tubercles in bone, which has been referred to in various places, as in spondylarthrocace and Spina ventosa, and indeed pointed out by the older writers, Gales, Severinus, Gerber, Hancke,) has been more carfully described by Delpech ind Neibert, but especially by the attention which the Anatomical Society of Paris mve given to the subject (a), and by Nelaton’s clever treatise (6), it has been care- ully set forth. Of this treatise Pigne has given an abstract in his French Translation >f this work, which I the more readily here repeat, as it confirms many of my own •arlier statements. The causes of tubercular formations in bone are those of tubercle in general. Most i 'ommonly it appears in ehildhood, although it is often enough noticed in adults. All . he bones may be attacked with it, though the several bones may be arranged in the fol- owing way, according to the frequency of its occurrence in them; the vertebra;, the shin- high- and upper-arm-bones, (in children,) the fingers, metacarpal and metatarsal bones, ( he breast-bone, ribs, iliac bones, the petrous portion of the temporal bone, and the hort carpal and tarsal bones. The disease appears under two forms ; the tubercular nass is collected in one or several cavities, in the middle of the bony substance (tuber- ,ula cystica, Lat.; tubercules enkystts, Fr.); it may be infiltrated into the cells of the “>ne (Infiltratio tuberculosa, Lat.; infiltration tuberculeuse, Fr.) A. The encysted tubercles appear during their progress in five stages (c) :— 1. Gray Granulations (Granulations grises.)—At the top of the affected part of the bone im which the periosteum has been removed, some vascular points are observed, form- ig violaceous marblings, and sometimes slight elevations which deprive the bone of its igularity. _ If layer after layer of the compact part of the bone be first removed, and ierwards its cellular tissue, a substance is reached of many lines in extent, formed by :ie union of little pearly granulations, half a line in diameter, of a white opaline colour, lany of these granulations, specially such as are at the periphery, are encircled by a *;ttle bony shell of very great tenuity and transparence. It is not uncommon to find Vane of these granulations, which present in their centre a yellow opaque spot, indica- * *v? of commencing transformation; in the interstices separating them some exceedingly elicate vessels creep, which inosculate with those of the surrounding bony tissue, upon hich a very distinct injection is perceived. The surface of the bone, at the nearest )int of this tuberculous deposit, is often doubled by a bony layer of recent formation 'hese granulations exhibit complete identity with those generally regarded as rudiments pulmonary tubercles; they are pretty frequently met with on bones, which on other arts ot their extent exhibit well-developed tubercles; and the lungs of persons in whom hey are met with generally contain tubercles. The bony partitions which separate iCh ol these granulations are not slow to be absorbed and disappear entirely, and then tears the second period. J r; P.rude’ encysted. Tubercles {Tubercules crus, enkysltTs.) -These granulations beirm med mto one single mass, lose their primitive colour and appearance ; the vessels and notions which separated them have disappeared : there is soon merely an opaque-white «7ryel^^that0f pUUy’ With0ut ai)y “ty, |d Sg the £hf! m finger; >s. homogeneous, contains no bone, and presents sometimes kht marblmgs more white, or slightly gray. This matter is contained in a cyst hich lines all the anfractuosities which the tubercular cavity presents This cvst’ i *tuterSl iKle •h/CkneBS’ ", at firSt gdatiu0us> transparent^eSds in acquS * L™i - b resistance, and contains vessels more and more numerous as the I nes ineular^nd’f Soft-neSS' The ^ony cavity is more or less regularly rounded, some- 4t i surface though ma"y fuT™1 cavitles- which °Pen into the central cavity. ■ generally smoothed, presents sometimes a heap of little bony needles 9 ‘ other ti g olicacy, almost all parallel, and directed towards the centre of the cavity ,1 fiSrtiSentirdy bony’tbes® ~11. are formed of bon?! fibrous ant 1 esurfeceof tlmho’ne Ifh5 Vtonseqnence of its development, the tubercle has reached E pmroSkd and ad t '* 'Tt' u V ' the P':ria^um, the latter becomes * unds C ex^vatii h!! °ng'y ,t0- ** Cy8t\ /or the rest, the bony tissue which J excavation has preserved its natural density and texture ; all the parts '*•“ 08C.6)Pate.t78 S"r rAffeC,i°n Tuberculpuse des682 FORMATION OF TUBERCLE IN BONE. invaded by the tubercle, instead of being crowded together by it, are destroyed as it w by a punch. These tubercular collections have an extent varying from two to th lines in diameter, up to fifteen and twenty; they are generally not very numerous, i it is very common to find only one pretty large one, and many of small dimeusio When a tubercle is developed in a bone, its periosteum becomes more vascular, as a the bone at the point nearest the accidental production. This vascularity is soon t lowed by the deposition of layers of newly-formed bone; besides, tubercles develuj near the extremity of a bone, open more easily into the cavity of the joint than on surface of the bone ; and this may be imagined, inasmuch as having traversed the ent < primitive bony tissue, the tubercle has still to traverse the bony layers of new fort tion, whilst towards the joint no such analogous obstacle is met with. 3. Softened tubercles {Tubercules ramollis.)—The more slowly the matter contain in the cyst softens, and so soon as the softening operates regularly from the centre to t circumference, so soon does it proceed from one part of the periphery to propagate its to the whole mass. 4. Elimiiiari/ process {Travail d''elimination.)—The collection of tubercular mat proceeds then like a true abscess, which having reached the skin, inflames and per rates it, and gives vent to a grumous liquid, consisting of white, cheesy flakes, suspend in a turbid serosity. When all the matter is voided, a fistula remains, which da: furnishes a varying quantity of serous pus. 5. Reparatory process ( Travail reparateur.)—At the end of a period of very varial length, if the patient can stand against the abundant suppurations, a tendency to cn is manifested; the cyst acquires considerable increase, thickens, hypertrophies to t extent of entirely filling up the cavity which it lines, and ends in presenting cot pletely the appearance of fibro-medullary tissue. The termination of this affecti( is not always so fortunate; it may, however, be stated in a general way, that t disease tends much more towards a cure according as its primitive seat is near the skin. B. Tubercular Infiltration embraces three different states of the bone: 1. Gray infiltration (Infiltration prise.)—The bony parts which are affected presei- in all the points which contain this tuberculous matter, spots of a grayish, opalin slightly rosy tint, and semitransparent, formed by the deposit in the cells of the bor- tissue, of a substance analogous in appearance to encephaloid substance; the circuit ference, instead of being lost insensibly, is suddenly bounded by a change of colour. E the aid of a lens these spots are seen traversed with blood-vessels of very great delicac and sometimes by a very well-marked circle of injection. The density of the bon tissue is neither increased nor diminished. 2. Purulent infiltration (Infiltration purulente.)—The infiltrated matter assumes, afk a longer or shorter time, a pale yellow tint, and becomes completely opaque; it is at fir pretty firm, but is not delayed in gradually softening; soon is it entirely fluid an puriform ; these collections are always very precisely bounded, as are the spots alread mentioned. When the infiltration has reached this period the blood-vessels disnppeai the bony tissue undergoes an interstitial hypertrophy, without the bulk of the bon being increased; the little cells are narrowed, and almost completely obliterated, an the cellular tissue of the bone is then as it were like ivory. _ 3. Sequestration of the affected part (Sequestration de la partie aff'ectee.)—WnW the bone lias undergone the modifications just mentioned, it exhibits all the character of a true sequester ; there is neither vessel nor any indication of remaining life: beside* a circle of elimination is formed around the infiltrated portions, and the sequestratioi runs through the whole series of phenomena characterizing necrosis ; abscesses, fistulas abundant suppuration, and so on, are the inevitable result. In some instances necrosi evidently exists, but its separation is long delayed. It sometimes happens that ti necrosed part is detached by little fragments, and in the cyst which forms around tn abscess a quantity more or less considerable of bone, like sand, is observed. On a other hand, this purulent infiltration is often propagated to neighbouring Parts’ attacks a large extent of bony tissue; these cysts are rarely so limited as in enejs • tubercle, anu it is not very uncommon to see a consecutive and accidental e®w developed not in the part primarily infiltrated, but in the bony tissue which surrounds ^ £ A683 FUNGUS OF DURA MATER AND OF SKULL-BONES. -ophy is sufficient to distinguish this affection, and that of necrosis, and of inflam- mation with suppuration of the medullary membrane of the bone. As to the treatment little remains to be said. The tuberculous affection is beyond all j he resources of art; when it affects an important organ, the patient is generally nevoted to death; when it affects the bony tissue, it is rare that it has not been deve- >ped in the lungs or in some other organ. However, when it only affects the bones, it l iay be hoped, that nature will effect the cure; especially if her efforts be seconded by wholesome diet, a residence exposed to the sun; in a word, by attention to the treat- ment of scrofula. This happy result is much more frequent at the period of puberty manat any other time of life.” (p. 491-93.) III.—OF FUNGUS OF THE DURA MATER, AND OF THE SKULL-BONES. Fungus Dura Matris, Lat.; Schwammige Auswucks auf der harten Hirnhaut, Germ. ; Fongus de la Dure-Mere, Fr.) Kauffmans, Dissert, de Tumore capitis fungoso post cariem cranii exorto. Helmst. i i Haller, Disput. Chirurg. Select., vol. i. p. 49. 3 Louis, Memoires sur les Tumeurs fongueuses de la Dure-Mere ; in Memoires de ) . Acad, de Chirurgie, vol. v. p. 1. Eti Sandifort, Exercitationes Anatomicae, cap. iii. Lugd. Batav., 1785. t , Museum Anatomicum Acad. Lugd. Batav., p. 142. L. B., 1793. ; von Siebold, a; in Arnejiann’s Magazin fur die Wundarzneiwissenschaft, vol. i. Ort iv. p. 142. Wenzel, J. and C., Ueber die schwammigen Auswiichse auf der aussere Hirnhaut. .ainz, 1811. fol.; with six copper plates. vonWalther, P., Ueber die schwammigen Auswiichse auf der harten Hirnhaut, nach genen Beobachtungen; in his Journal, fiir Chirurgie und Augenheilkunde, vol. i. 55. Schwarzschild, H„ Dissert, de Fungis Capitis. Heidelb., 1825. 4to.; with four hographed plates. Seerig, A. G. H., Nonnulla de Fungi Durae Matris origine et diagnosi. Uratislavise, o.; with three lithographed plates. F Eeermaier, Ueber den Schwamm der Schadelknochen und die schwammartieen hjijnswuchse der harten Hirnhaut. Diisseldorf, 1829. 4to. J Chelius, Zur Lehre von den schwammigen Auswiichsen der harten Hirnhaut und B r Schadelknochen. Heidelb., 1831. fol.; with eleven plates. 3 Unger, Beitrage zur Klinik der Chirurgie, vol. i. p. 264. t Kosch, Beitrag zur der Lehre von den Schwammgewachsen am Kopfe • in von 3' RAEFEund von Walther’s Journal, vol. xxiv. p. 542. 31 Osius; in Heidelb. Med. Annalen, vol. iv. part iii. i 2224. Fungus of the dura mater is an unnatural growth, arising from K ie surface of that membrane, which in its further development, by the J sstruction of the bone, thrusts up beneath the external covering and i iises them into a tumour. I 22_o. I he symptoms at first occurring in this disease, are extremely | ^rtain and ^definite, as head-ache, sometimes slight, at other times U AJ severe, often periodical, sometimes spreading over the whole head, .miJL01116111?68 fi^ed. to ?"e spot; afterwards dizziness, a sensation of con- ■ net;/' afiK cor‘Pus*on ft1 tl'e head ; vomiting, pallid countenance, and - asung; loss of sensation in some one part and the like. Sometimes, V run?*' l” t ie early stage, the disease presents no symptoms. As the ‘ nin! <|1' ar^es upon the surface of the dura mater, that membrane is i is au ■ ° a Sreater extent from the skull, and partly in consequence of * ’ 1 m part by t,ie pressure of the swelling, the bone is destroyed byPROGNOSIS AND DIAGNOSIS 684 absorption. Before the tumour bursts through the outer fable of skull, that part of the bone crackles under pressure of the finger. 2226. When the bone is destroyed and the fungus has arrived un«l the coverings of the skull, it presents a regular, circumscribed more cl less elastic soft swelling, over which the colour of the skin is unchang sj This swelling in general enlarges but slowly, and presents as characterise signs ; first, the sensation of pulsation, as observed, though more active l>jj in aneurysm; second, the edge of the hole in the hone, through which iJ tumour protrudes, is distinguishable around the whole circumference {1 the swelling, more or less rounded or sharp, and having numerous poin <j projections ; third, on the condition of this bony edge depends the grea ts or less painfulness of the swelling ,• fourth, the possibility of returni n the swelling into the cavity of the skull with sudden cessation of its pa is fulness, under which circumstance, the fungus is no longer exposed to t \ influence of the edge of the hole in the bone. With the external p il trusion of the tumour, is often connected danger of very urgent symptoi as small pulse, vomiting, continual gulpings, cold hands and feet, f u quent faintings, and cold sweats over the whole body. These symptor j together with loss of sensation, palsy, and loss of intellect, may beccii sequence of keeping back the fungus by art, or by change of position II the other side. 2227. The pulsation often diminishes as the swelling increases, and - scarcely perceptible; the edge of the hole in the bone may also be cc tj cealed as the outer part of the swelling spreads over it. The skin 1 : coming still more tense, reddens, thins, at last bursts, and a fung ' protrudes through the opening, which bleeds frequently, and secretes < ichorous fluid mixed with blood. Hectic fever arises in consequence » this loss of the juices, of the restlessness, and of the violence of the pai ; and under the colliquative symptoms death ensues, preceded for a long ! or shorter time by a sleepy state, frequent faintings, loss of some of t 1 senses or of the powers of the mind. 2228. Examination after death exhibits a swelling of a brownish colot j sometimes more or less grayish white, at some parts often a medullaij substance, of which some lobes are enveloped in their cellular tissue, and* a certain extent held together. This substance is penetrated by more less vessels, in general connected not very firmly with the dura and not at all organically with the edge of the hole in the bone, but on | retained by the pointed projections and dentations of the edge of the bon ^ Upon the external surface of the bone, the edge of the hole is sharp defined, but on the inner table it runs off obliquely, so that the injNj plate is always further destroyed than the external; a decided proof ' the fungus has burst through the skull from within outwards. This « also shown by preparations, in which the fungus not having )' completely destroyed the bone, the external table is undisturbed, at neither the bone nor the pericranium in any way diseased. Not unn quently such swellings appear on several parts of the skull in vario^ degrees of development, just like swellings situated on other bones 2229? Fungus of the dura mater is distinguished by the scribed symptoms from other diseases of the skull, from °.n9San melicerous, and atheromatous swellings, and from hernia eerc n, specially as the latter either exists from birth or is produced aOF FUNGUS OF THE DURA MATER. 685 (injury of the skull, accompanied with loss of substance. Sciinieber (a) has ■«deed mentioned a congenital fungus of the dura mater ; I have, however, if. ith Seerig (5), doubts of the correctness of the diagnosis in this case. 2230. The views already stated in reference to the origin and course of % utigus of the dura mater, which have been specially laid down by Louis, KFenzel, and others, and which I have found confirmed by my own & bservation on the living and by examination of the dead, are opposed to 4 lose advanced by Sandifort, Siebold, and Waether. According to i«ie latter writers, fungus of the dura mater is a simultaneous degene- > ition of the dura mater, of the skull-bones, and of the external perios- d. um, but especially of the blood vessels which pass from the latter to the ;£ iploe, and from it to the dura mater ; a luxuriant vegetation of the net- se ke tissue between the two tables of the skull bones, with which the bone- * irth is sucked up and a carnation of the hone at the same time arises. (< his opinion, which had already been advanced by Louis in some cases, k/'enzel (c) admits only so far as he supposes that the original seat of §ie disease is restricted merely to that part of the bone on which the ■j-seased cause so operates, that the natural functions are in some way fc sturbed and interrupted ; and this may be sometimes the outer, some- O lies the inner table of the bone, sometimes both together, and some- « nes the fungous tissue which lies between them. 1:2231. Directly opposed to the symptoms on which Wenzel founded ifc s diagnosis of this disease, are those which Walther has advanced * pported by his own views and careful observation. He did not, indeed’ | :>tice any motion of the swelling ; the patient experienced only a certain ian"o and rushing, best comparable with that which sometimes is per- t ived in the external ear-passages in violent beating of the carotid artery | a its branches. A certain obscure movement was felt in the swelling but " tt;ev?r only when the hand, or still better the tips of the fingers are * plied and pressed strongly upon it for a long while; the movements are Sethis way, after some time, distinctly felt. In one case an alternate f aad sinking of the tumour was observed, similar to that concussion 7 "ch the beating of the arteries produces in all parts of the body. Its l>?ree corresponds with the number and extension of the arteries in the jening; the movements are similar to the beats of the pulse and JrMpond with them. Walther could not feel any bony edge around teC CiKmftrenCe °f TelllnS> and considered this proved, because the I S±1U 0nwYaS ,nnI^ and throughout its whole extent filled with I 5llln?- When the fungus attains considerable size, no symptoms Sfr'l Tibrai?re ?bserved;. b,,t in very »pid growTlf they E ouo-h theJ1 • f,he,external Part of the tumour can be returned ] itin V ,.1, the b°ne never’ or but vei7 rai,ely, and only whilst it - “L ,T ani1 recent’ ‘"Jhich W- Of compression of the “ st “ once ensue- Walther found, in general, that the swellin itfT.j coninlp+oLr c • , r ’ geneiai, mat tne swelling aiching orn/J'wflTlZTrant,that was in"° way sensible of [ ll-bo°nes wL T ^ fPreSSUTh " Connexion of tbe fungus with the Imble distance oC periosteum began to thicken at a con- ‘■■Wroti Z m the T ‘'"Si the increased * " connectXYthThe^L *“”“d redd<i',wl; W°i.T«r.AE" Und V°N WALTHEH’8 Journal, (b) Above cited, p. 2-J. (r) Above cited, p. ‘Jj.686 KINDS AND CAUSES OF 2232. Both these opinions are true, and founded upon careful obser J tion ; but it is improper to attempt setting aside the one by the other. | both are obtained from different states of the disease. The opinion® Louis and Wenzel is applicable only to the true fungus of the d, £ mater; that which Siebolp, Sandifort, Walther and others h; 1 noticed, is not entitled to the name of fungus of the dura mater, but iifl be distinguished as a fungus of the skull, (Fungus cranii,) as the dege: § ration in it begins either from the diplo'e, or from the dura mater i ,i pericranium at the same time, and the bone is converted into a fung .: substance of greater or less firmness. This distinction between fum durce matris and fungus cranii equally applies to similar degene* tions in other bones, where fungous growths are developed between ■ • periosteum and bone, and the bone is destroyed merely by these increas masses; whilst other fungous groivths proceed from tlieboiie itself andft j the medullary substance, and the bone is converted into a Jungo: sarcomatous, steatomatous, or other kind of substance. Those growths which are formed on the external surface of the dura mater in cor quence of ulceration of the skull-bones, must be distinguished from true fungus of t dura mater. 2233. If the several origins offungus be reviewed, five different fon; must, according to the observations of myself and others, be distinguish^ First. The dura mater alone is capable of fungous degeneration, wh appears either on its internal or external surface, or on both at om The fungous parts of the external surface of the dura mater are connecd firmly with the more or less completely destroyed internal surface of t skull, so that the organically connected excrescence of the dura matet converted gradually into the same fungous, steatomatous, or fibri substance. When this degeneration gradually affects the skull-bo > throughout their whole thickness, and by its external protrusion for a swelling, it becomes firmly connected with the bone, and imperceptm involves It, so that perhaps only at certain parts can its bounds be p ceived through the firm edge of bone. Such tumour admits of no re nor is any pulsation felt; at least the pulsations of the brain can alone communicated to it when a large extent of the skull is included; they© however, only be very slight, and distinguished always by their regu from the pulsation of single vessels, with their numerous ramifications. the swelling. In the other kind of isolated fungous degeneration of the dura rm the degeneration is restricted entirely to it, and ordinarily to its , surface alone. The fungus arising from the external surface of t he « mater is especially characterized by the enlargement of its su without destroying the surrounding parts otherwise than P _ on which account the fungus is only organically connected with th of its original development, and never with the bones of the skull, destroys.” The destruction of the bones, already noticed as occurring u progressive increase of the fungus, always corresponds to the exUj" , , tumour, extends from within outwards, and at last bursts throug i ternal table of the skull, so that the swelling is perceived externally ^ the coverings of the skull. Hence on examination, according various degrees of development of the fungus, more or less deep ^ are noticed on the inner table of the skull; and when the " t0 a pletely burst through, the destruction of its inner table is an a.687 FUNGUS OF THE DURA MATER. ■eater extent than the opening in the outer table, its edge sharply I-, nfined, and without exhibiting any other change. When the swelling appears externally, the edge of the bone throughout its whole circum- rence is distinctly perceptible; the swelling pulsates actively and nchronously with the beat of the arteries, and so long as it has not quired considerable size, may be wholly or in part returned into the vityof the skull, and then more or less severe symptoms of compression ' the brain occur. The pericranium surrounding this swelling is either c-like or more or less united to it, which merely results from the con- med pressure and inflammatory irritation, as noticed in all tumours in lation to their coverings and envelopes. 2234. Second. The dura mater and pericranium may degenerate at the me time, so that if a fungous mass is formed between the two and the rresponding surfaces of the skull-bones, with which it is organically con- et ed, the destruction of the bone results only from its conversion into is substance, and, proceeds from its two surfaces towards the middle, so a»it the diploe is at last destroyed. So long as the fungous mass has not fempletely destroyed the bone, it forms a more or less large and elevated ■gielling, which is either imperceptibly lost in the bone, or an edge K bone can be felt here and there on its circumference. The swelling ®>more or less firm, shows no trace of communicated pulsation from the fc nn, so long as the skull still remains not completely destroyed ; and only Wien there is great vascular development in it, can the isolated pulsation f . ® sfveral vessels be distinguished by examination with the fingers, but | ich, in reference to its strength, cannot be compared with tha? in true 3p2gus of the dura mater. ■B235. Third. The fungous mass may be developed between the shidl f d the pericranium, as fungus pericranii. Here, at least according pthe observations hitherto made, the substance is always firmly con° ped with the bone; indeed, for the most part, is formed by the diseased fflinge of the bone. The substance may form considerable growths and f- a so sPread more towards the surface. When the fungous mass has > ingeri the skull through its entire thickness, it is always so closelv » hrmly connected at its edge with the bone, that those symptoms ¥ ?,. exist in true fungus of the dura mater cannot be present, and the p- ing is specially under the same circumstances, as a swelling- of like o ijd on other bones. ° e IS6' Fourlh- The degeneration begins in the net-like tissue of the and extends gradually inwards and outwards, or more towards the i hThe swf"s.is,"ere •*■"* -I Ethe seat of tf phd bone ; wl,en it has completely destroyed the bone La^er 1 ! deSeneratl0n’ * presents a similar connexion with the Ety Of Zn\ d Perlcramulm> and there is neither pulsation nor possi- most the of *■» ■»««“ 4 be based 2d In L here n,ay be finally, several of the above-mentioned >*ie time accor bfo" t S differeflt cha«^ Present at the Wes («.)’ CC0rdlnS to whlch the symptoms variously present them- 238 ti ■ties are either^inf !nn%0UH growths of the dura mater and skull- either internal or external. To the former belong syphilis, («) Ciiei ius, above cited, p. G9.OPERATION FOR FUNGUS OF TIIE DURA MATER. 688 rheumatic affections, scrofula, and other diseases which are connected w an altered condition of the juices. To the external causes belong bio . upon the head, bruises, concussion of the skull without external injury 1 fracture of the bone. The distinction of the causes is frequently attem 1 i frequently attem with great difficulty, as the external injury lias often so long preceded origin of the complaint, that its causal relation to it is doubtful. Wo the disease arises without external violence, the presence of internal < ease is not always clear; but the progress of the complaint, and . existence of similar degeneration in other parts, points to a peculiar a thesis, often characterized by no other symptoms than the tumour: and this respect, indeed, it must be distinguished as the diathesis fungo I do not imagine, that without this internal condition, external causes <- of themselves produce such fungous degenerations. As the result of th causes, an inflammatory condition is always to be considered as the pecul commencement of the disease, by which plastic exudation, irregiL vascular development, and the like, are produced. According as th processes occur, at the same time, on the surface of the dura mat in the bone itself, under the pericranium and upon the dura mater, i proper fungus durce matris and fungus cranii are produced. , _ 2239. Fungus of the dura mater, and of the skull-bones, is a very i' a portant disease, which left to itself causes death, and the cure of which, even its mitigation, is usually impossible. In those cases where theco « plaint is, from the symptoms mentioned, {par. 2225,) supposed toJtt | arisen from external injury, its development may perhaps be arrested <j the early and continual use of cold applications, by taking away blo^l active purging, low diet, and the like. But if the swelling have alreanl become apparent externally, there is no remedy but its removal, by n ligature or the knife after previously laying bare, and enlarging the in the bone ; cutting into the tumour, the constant application of pressU'l and the use of escharoties, can only promote an unfavourable result, j Walther supposes that the operation is contraindicated in fungus of the ' «| mater, and that only the peculiar kind and special condition of the case, " and there form an exception. He is confirmed in this opinion by the view he the origin of the fungus, and by an operation he performed, in which, after » | cut, so severe bleeding ensued, that he was obliged to abstain from ®n,s B . , ration. In reference to fungus cranii, I must, from my own observation, ... ^ opinion. But the operation for true fungus of the dura mater must be_ [( permissible, if the disease have not advanced too far: if there be on ) sal*i*3 no degeneration of the other parts. The prognosis, however, m this opera * ^ ^ extremely doubtful; independent of its danger, it has scarcely ever a Peu . t as, at least according to my experience, the fungus of the durama> 0f ,f characterized as medullary fungus, (Fungus medullans,) which, o general diathesis, is always incurable. _ ^ |“ 2240. In performing this operation, the general coverings are ^ divided upon the swelling with a crucial cut, extending bey on . a either side to the extent of an inch ; the Haps are then sepa ^ turned back. The galea aponeurotica and periosteum arei ton nected with the tumour, and to be divided like the skin, tor > 1 ^ laying bare the fungus; or this may be done by two cuts on ^ the swelling. The edge of the hole in the bone having 1 r fiie trephh % must be endeavoured by repeated applications of the crown o ^ must be endeavoured by repeated applications oi cu,... obtain ,<j and by removing the intermediate pieces with Hey s' ’gweUing. anci Dy removing me q- V , e r h,p swelling- space large enough for the examination of the base ot th - jt nW}. its connexion with the dura mater be then found not very 5OPERATION FOll FUNGUS OF THE DURA MATER. 689 separated with the finger, or with the knife-handle; or if its connexion iff firmer, it may be carefully cut away with the knife ; or that part of the tra mater to which it is attached may be cut off; or a ligature may be ■plied with a loop-tier, which, however, on account of the readiness th which serious symptoms are set up, should be tied with very great ifiution (a). The after-treatment is to be guided according to the rules n d down for the operation of trepanning. a Only under the above-mentioned restrictions, is the removal of the fungus permis- ■ le; in every other case the operation merely hastens death. Thus, in Berard’s (b) rfj ;e, who by means of sixteen applications of the trephine, made an opening in the ST1! five inches long and four and a half wide, which laid bare the dura mate/with the t! igitudinal sinus and the upper edge of the falx, after the removal of the outer part of a ■ swelling, pulsation was observed in the restol'it; faintingand convulsions immediately ® '“ed’ a°d *he Patient died in twenty-four hours. The swelling arose from the outer S tace ot the dura mater, and after destroying the bone, had protruded through oblong aperture, whilst its base spread beneath the skull. Its structure resembled ® t ot brain, the inner surface of th e-dura mater was healthy. 1 dfi.I°LI (c) removed a fungus of the dura mater successfully. A little swelling pro- ;■ M beneath the right ear, accompanied with loss of sight, and had gradually reached ° °!,a Sma 1 jut- The whole swelling pulsated, but was compressible, and the s sation then ceased; it also for the most part ceased when the temporal artery of that 2 l XJOmp^.ssed‘ Neither bony edge nor crepitation was felt beneath, or on the a ;w/i„etSWellln?- ,The disease was thought to be a temporal aneurysm. In three if As the tumour had increased about two-thirds; head-ache and singing in the ears ,, e on, and an operation was thought necessary. The artery having been compressed a ATtnmo WaS ma,de thr°Ugli tde CoverinSs> a”d the temporal muscle cut through* 1 t thch Was tee,P1er’ and the operator ascertained it was not aneurysmal, and 3 ets St\WraonPl°iably rtetitsL After dividing the pericranium, a. hard! irregular I fo..n., d ™ nd tde swelling The pericranium having been separated, the bone 0 * unon th pit t0 I’6 a half-dollar; the tumour was seated with a broad ,, lpi^i ,/,“m mfter’fnd difficult as it was, Orioli removed as much as possible of E length and breadth of the fibro-fleshy mass. Two arteries were plugged, and the 1 MdsomeV?" the “mth day the wound was sloughy; the slough separated gradu- f ated svnchrP , °f were also thrown off- The bottom of the wound now I nd cfeansed thUS y 1 1 ftenes and with the movements of the brain. As the 1 n,a cleansed, there appeared however on one side a swelling, similar to the former 1 C0,npreSSed with lint. In fifty days the cure was complete A | n were telt^ Th,.^ ™ *e‘e lhe hole \n ,the bone was, and the movements of the 1 ely lost. ’ h S1Dgmg ln the ears subsided ; sleep returned, but sight was com- * esides the above-mentioned writers, the following may also be consulted », ,e am , 'n.tst(‘bunK und Ausgang emer hetriichtlichen und mit dem Wind- v -on.ivobii. t 667fphn8,e9.en SCr°phuloSen SPeckgeschwulst auf dem Scheitel; in I S°r>S- TUbCreU“S P- *»f 1- Exercila- I Wvelhier, Anatomie pathologique du Corps humain, livr. viii., | IVUXR, B., Dissert de Fungo Dura; Matris et Cranii. Monachii, 1829, | asius, De Fungi Dura; Matris accuratiori distinctione. Hal 1829 •sbner, Dissert, de Fungo Dura; Matris. Heidelb., 1832. ,invert, Dissert, de Fungo Capitis in universum, et de Fungo Dura; Matris in specie. in hart"’,,' llTrnl!'0 scbwammigen Auswiichse ivAi.T,IFa’sy‘",ha.uti ,ln. V0N CJRAK1K und j Journal, vol. ii. p, 213. 1 i°L. I| gazette Medicate, vol. i. p. 735. J833. Bulletino delle Seienza Mediche. May,, 2 Y[ 690 ] IX.—OF FATTY OR ADIPOSE TUMOURS. {Lipoma, Tumor adiposus, Lat.; Fettgeschwulst, Germ.; Lipome, Fr.) Schregek, Ueber Lipome und Extirpation derselben; in his Chirurgische Versut vol. i. p. 297. VON Waether, P., Ueber die angebornen Fetthautgeschwiilste und andere Bildun ii fehler. Landshut, 1814; with two plates. von Klein, Ueber die Ausrotung verschiedener Gesclrwiilste; in von Graefe r a von Walther’s Journal fiir Chirurgie und Augenbeilkunde, vol. i. p. 109. Brodie, Sir B. C., Lectures illustrative of various subjects in Pathology and Sarge $ London, 1846. 8vo. 2241. The fatty, or adipose tumour, depends on an unnatural collect! »| of fat, heaped up either m the panniculus adiposus, or between the plait | of the cellular tissue beneath the skin, according to Schreger, ki t mucous bags of the first and second orders. 2242. These tumours are developed slowly, and without any unea ness; they give to the touch a peculiar softness, whieh cannot be betl compared than to that of a bag filled with cotton ; their surface is irr gular, and distinct conglomerations are felt upon them, which are not han and are easily compressed. When they have reached a certain size, th. in general grow quickly, and may acquire a very considerable bulk. . long as the swelling is small, the skin upon it remains unchanged,!) when it has become very large, the circulation is impeded by the dragging and tension of the skin, the cutaneous veins become expanded, dropsic- swelling takes place, the skin inflames, especially if the tumour be seat* on any part where it can be affected by chafing or external injury, ai the inflammation may run on to ulceration. The form of a fatty tumw is in general oblong, and has a neck. .. . [That fatty tumours have generally a neck is not, according to my obserTatic eorrect. They usually have a broad base, and raise up the skin like hlilock;\ , , rarely they have a neck; and in St. Thomas’s Museum is the cast of a ver> ri . . one, which weighed from fifty to sixty pounds, was attached by a narrow J* the throat, and hung down to the man’s knees. John Hunter h m. w^ tumour was only of small size, and did not think it could be_ safely remoied. man died some years after in Shoreditch Workhouse.—J. F. S.Jj 2243. According to the two-fold origin of fatty tumours already tioned, {par. 2241,) two different kinds may be distinguished wlucn characterized by marked symptoms. Aimarn Those fatty tumours which belong merely to the panniculus and are only knobby masses of fat at certain parts, have no ''e , a] edges, but subside into the surrounding parts, (IJpoma diffus*™-) ^ very soft and easily compressible, and so connected with the s n> ^ latter can be moved or lifted in folds upon the swelling. meptfaB under the generally thinned corium ; no general sac exists, an< '■o' *7 | only are enclosed in thin and simple walls. The fat is similar ■ other parts of the body, only a little firmer. [This is the form of fatty tumour which Brodie mentions as “ not welladipo fact there is no distinct boundary to it, and you cannot say where th® n^r<;nn *jtb l|| 1 1,1 1.! J A V. U n »<ol>ltOC 1 fact there is no distinct uouuuary iu n, auu , wiu«* i structure ends and the morbid growth begins.” He relates the case ol F g(ervV, , affection of this kind, “ an enormous double chin hanging nearly down i 0I ; and an immense swelling also on the back of Ins neck formed by two. a thcn * behind each ear, as large as an orange, and connected by a smaller n a- but j |,»i a -I. si. L* 1. TAi*nl\ohUr fol-D nltlPP in JllTV Dfirt 01 ll*V J S jar, as large as an orange, and connected by a smaller' nia. but i luo a Such deposits may probably take place in any part ot ti (i 375-7/ I seen them,” says Brodie, “ more frequently in the neck thanehew^^ ^ chiidre Not unfrequently very stout persons, more especially the *»T* have large collections of fat between the skm and abdominal musclKINDS OF FATTY OR ADIPOSE TUMOURS. 691 i which hang down in a thick fold, like an apron, to the pubes. It has been dignified with the name of pendulous belly. The female breast also sometimes becomes enor- . ^ aiously loaded with fat, even in very young women. Bkodie mentions a case of i his kind, which grew so large that it was removed on account of its inconvenient ! -i'7« irhipli rm Hicconhnu fimm/l onf Pr\ Ko c •_ >U issize, which on dissection turned out to be “a fatty tumour, and a chronic mammary ■ ; umour, blended with each other,” and disposed layer on layer, (p. 281.) But whether i m the neck, belly, or elsewhere, it seems to be merely a superabundant deposit of fat, T * hypertrophy, which can hardly be considered a disease, though it certainly is a ni : ,Teat inconvenience.—J. F. S.] ^ 2244. The other fatty tumours which arise between the two plates of - he cellular expansion beneath the skin, from an increased and altered I egetation of the mucous bags of the first and second order, are situated leeper, are covered with the panniculus adiposus, have a defined boundary, greater mobility, more elastic hardness, and are enveloped in a proper ellular cyst, which is commonly so firmly connected with the fat that jo hey can scarcely be distinguished. In general this cyst is very thin, often ijtill thinner as the swelling becomes larger; only in rare cases is it firm, ■Sendinous, and in part cartilaginous. This tumour consists of spherical ■ .lasses of fat, which differ from the natural fat, nearly resembling a sliee i nrougli the brain, or through a lymphatic gland, without cavities and . lartitions ; sometimes they appear as if composed of circularly twisted or y lid lately disposed plates (a). ibhpa Khe °.pm,°in °f th'S t.'vofoId form of Upoma, which may be sufficiently distin- , - uloml f.xa“lnat10?’ nl,croscopic observations also agree. The substratum sTT th • fatty tlssue intermingled with blood-vessels and cellular tissue in I p cellufarP fe0uetl0with 7?" l'P^ ^“i1 belon?s to the panniculus adiposus, consists ystoU L ™ ’ h few vessels, and sometimes starlike groups of needle-shaped 3Seso&Uar’fi°h margar n aCld’ artf0Und in the fat’celIs In ‘he other form more J Mbrr vwn rbr,f aJe observed> whlcb spread between the groups of fat-cells, the commondlvld®f ^atty.tumoursl f11*0- first. Lipoma, in which the fat is found “tty cellular tissue, and is merely isolated by the walls of numerous 0 pis fler,; seco"d, Fatty cysts, in which the fat is not contained in little BnerallvS7 flul<l’ PartIy 1,1 form of fat-corpuscles, is enclosed in one large and 1 in tlw r,h rk raembranous cyst- In the former case, the production of the fat goes S ;,re b*i dlIiiar7 way’ as Prevu>u.sly in the healthy body; in the latter there is as it ■1 nerallv Predornlnant fat-cell, and its wall thickens into a firm cyst. The lipoma r ills are roundish and ovl^th'8^'* 0,'dinal'-v. form of fatty cellular tissue, its- •oration of fat eMk It-’, SU!fle dlfference consists in the firmness of this con- t flhilar L Ch usually possesses a more or less strong cyst of thickened f :&t,as;Ssth: s^le lobes 7 enf ^ I isurrounded bj^membrane°aenpra^l°n*\ ■The t“«raP’of *&» consistence suet He cholesteatoma ” ’ generally very thin, rarely thicker than a common evst. ; Patty tumours of this kind vaU-^^^ blood-yesselsjc). i It rem/v^t 7’ Pounds- The large ?*- * Uan,ish *?iiOT“r» H«pS;r;wfid: *ch after removal woitrU,,,! *i.:.Z. _w ie "avel, and formed an immense swelling, -ich after remmJ • , , , .y below t,ie navel, and f JO 8oiiheofr ° n We‘g 'ty'SeVen P°Uuds and ten °nnccs. It was a remarkabfe 3>) Ab^ ’ '8^. r“18 MUC0*il’ >ubcut*nei“. «*<»*», De Lipomate. Commcntatio loco In 1 Above Cited, p 49. Eacultata Medicorum Univers. lit. Erlang, rite Compare also VoOE,, above citeil._Hpy. °brt'ne"do; ... . nEV Mcd.-Clur. Trans., vol. xi. p. 440. 1824.. 2 y 2FATTY Oil ADIPOSE TUMOUKS; 692 circumstance in this man’s case, that notwithstanding this bulky protuberance, he had done his duty on shipboard till within a few days of his admission. The tumour is in the Museum at St. Thomas’s. Lawrence (a) mentions that a French Surgeon removed a fatty tumour from the left hypochondrion, which weighed forty-six pounds, and was one of eight in the same person, the others of which, however, were not so large.: Portalupi (b), of Venice, removed a large pyriform fatty swelling which hung from the left side of the neck and chest; measured in length twenty inches and a half,'twenty- seven inches around its upper narrower part, and thirty inches below, and weighed fifty-two pounds; no blood-vessel of size was divided, nor was any ligature required; and in the course of seven weeks, the patient was cured. Although generally seated almost immediately beneath the skin^these fatty tumours are sometimes situated beneath the muscles, and then give rise to much difficulty in diagnosis, of which Brodie mentions a good example, where the tumour was beneath the trapezius; in another case the fatty mass was behind the gland of the breast, • which it had lifted up, and caused great doubt as to the character of the disease, till explained by the operation. He also mentions a case in which a large tumour in the scrotum lay. behind the testicle, but quite distinct from it, and gave the impression of being an omental hernia-; it was, however, determined to operate on it, and it was then discovered to be a fatty tumour connected with the spermatic cord within the abdominal ring, which as it had grown, descendedi into the scrotum, (p. 271.) Among the rarest situations of fatty tumours, the tongue may be mentioned: in the! Museum of the College of Surgeons there is a specimen of a small lobulated fatty swell-1 ing which had been removed from that organ.] 2245. The causes of fatty tumours are unknown. Rarely can they be » ascribed to pressure, blows, or any other violence. They are seen at all a ages and in both sexes, though most frequently in adults ; they seem also to ' be more frequent in females, though without any relation to menstruation. They generally occur on the shoulders, upon the back and on the neck; but are, however, observed' on other parts, and even on such as have natu- rally very little disposition, to fat. Oftentimes several fatty tumours occur, < even in considerable number in the same individual. Not unfrequently is a fatty tumour congenital, and then often acquires considerable size ; in this case too, sometimes the general coverings are more jor less altered, loosened up, dusky coloured, beset with large quantities of and longer hair >' than natur al. Such have been named by Walthkr fatty mother-marks (Naums maternus lipomatodes, Lat.; Fettmuttermahl, Germ.) The dis- H ease also usually spreads after birth to a considerable extent. 2246. Fatty tumours are always to be considered important diseases, as » they enlarge very quickly, spread, and run into ill-conditioned ulcers (*)■ 1 Small swellings may indeed in. many instances be dispersed by the app cation of gum ammoniac dissolved in vinegar of squills, by rubbing in 1 ox gall, nut oil, and liquor of acetate of ammonia (2). Their reniova i with the knife is, however, generally the only certain mode of treatmen. This operation is easy and without any danger in those fatty turn \ which have a broad base; but it may be difficult and dangerous if ■ swelling be of great extent, lie in the neighbourhood of important parts? or if it have deeply-stretching roots. Under these circumstances, it is no often possible to remove all the degeneration, even with the greatest » ^ so that either the fatty growth begins anew, ora long-continued u : ^ ditioned suppuration ensues, and even fistulas, which remain throug ^ life. Not unfrequently the general formative action appears to ^ increased by the operation, as often not only in the neighbourhood o ^ part operated on, but. also in distant parts, where previously no nPoma t0 existed, it sprouts forth. It must also not be forgotten, in referen l* vol xxvii*- ®# Ca) Lectures on Surgery ; in 1-ancet. 1829-30 ; (6) Omodei, Annali Universal?, ■wol. i. p. y<>9. P- 18-3,693 OPERATION FOR THEIR REMOVAL. the performance of the operation, that many lipomata are so considerable, and so largely penetrated with branching vessels, that the operation is i ; attended with considerable bleeding {3). _ _ - O v ~/ [(1) As regards ulceration, Brodie observes;—“ The skin over a fatty tumour very < rarely inflames and ulcerates. You might -a priori expect that the pressure of the ' ' 1 i rt /t ITVi A i- t. 4 « 4 . n n T "I— n „ _ _ 1 ‘ '4 UU Uilglll IX /' (, 1/ / IM tumour would often produce this effect, but it is not so. I have, however, known ; . inflammation to take place in the substance of the tumour, and an abscess to form in its } i centre.” And he mentions a case in which this happened in a large tumour on the : (back; “the abscess never healed, but continued to discharge profusely matter with an . oily fluid floating in at,” till the swelling was removed, (p. 273.) ■ ■ He also refers to Astley Cooper's opinion, that “ a fatty tumour will sometimes take sail tr t' at ■: 3W'J hm f ! IO 1 «K 1)8 11V ititio tv ^a.o a 1'E-i Jtn o upiulULlj LIlclL a laliy LllULlOLlI Will SOIXlcLlIIlGS laK6 on the action of a malignant disease, and become a malignant tumour,” and is inclined to AflTPfi with it; in (innspmipnpp nf n nnca wl-nnTi lvon r nAmnAcnd ^.1 ” uiov-ucc) wuu occonic u luuaiguaut agree with it in consequence of a case which he operated on, “ composed of what seemed to be fatty substance, somewhat more condensed than usual; hut that here and there, dispersed ihrougliout the mass, there was another kind of morbid growth, apparently belonging to the class of medullary or fungoid disease. It is reasonable to suppose that if this tumour had been allowed to remain, it would have ulcerated, and run the usual course of a malignant disease.’’ (p. 282.) (2) In the ease of diffuse tatty tumours of the neck, already referred to, (p. 690,) tt; Brodie “ gave half a drachm of the liquor potasses three times a day, and gradually jk* increased t.hp dose tn fl tirttplim d i ccnl wnrl in cm oil »«n<*oU ^p v t „ iv — increased the dose to a drachm, dissolved in small beer :” the result of which, after some time, was, that considerable absorption of the swelling occurred, though “ there . were still some remains of the tumour, but nothing that was very remarkable. I have seen” he observes, “ some other cases in which the exhibition of very large doses of the Uquor potasses appeared to be of great service.” (p. 276.) For the more common cir- cumscribed fatty swellings, there is not, as far as I have had opportunity of seeing, any remedy to produce their absorption, whether they be small or large, and therefore to be got rid of, they must be removed by the knife. It is not needful, however, to meddle with them if their size do not inconvenience the patient, and so long as they remain I stationary,, which they often will for years. But if they at any time begin to increase, taey should be at once removed, as when this action begins, it generally continues more 'or less quickly. n/3)?aSy-aS the removal fatty tumours undoubtedly is, it not unfrequently happens if that there is a good deal of boggling from inattention to the simple circumstance of cutting through the cellular cyst surrounding them, to the extent of the external wound and fairly into the fatty tumour itself. If the cyst be thus opened, the operation may generally be completed by running the finger or the handle of the knife between it and • -ne tumour which usually turns out like a kernel from its shell, being only here and L 15, lttle PFocesses of cellular tissue, or little bundles of vessels, which are es torn through, or if too tough and large to-admit this, must be cut with the knife. 2 i;’ , jVer’ th.e,cy,st ,be not °Pened’ the tumour will not turn out, and must be fairly ‘rr r 0U,t T1,, lh,e bnlfe- whlch 1S very tedious and inconvenient, as almost every little ,X fd!V: ed-b ledS ^ and re<luires ‘y'ng- the former of which does not happen, iddbi 1 r 15 therefore unnecessary, if the tumour be torn from its cyst, which is an ditiona1 reason why this method should be preferred. It occasionally happens indeed VanuHtion6 ^ ^m°Uf r t«hiS maDner’ the cavity “ppuitesand heals by - Se._j F.’S ] hlS 18 °f 6 consecluence> “d only slightly retards the If47- The r,ernoval of liP°ma is managed according to the same rules laid f Thlk reSa;d,t0 f?cysted tumours’ The wound may be brought together, •emr,voffSe ° t ie lVma be not lar?e’ and wl'0le has been completely 1 TC:.r\by <iu,ck union- Bllt in large lipomata, which can- t inlv an im'an r ?rne- '0"c the wound has been brought together, % voun,] ’pe, fect union of the skin with the corresponding surface of the loes 1 t?p0t T6d ; at eVCTy part where little bits of fat remain, union ireventefl k.e Place> a.fatty purulent lymph hows out; and, if its escape be ontinimrl il nfla“™.atl°" of skin, bursting again of the united parts, >ut lifp n 'C°n,( ltlot|od suppuration, and fistulas, remaining even through- bre the prf F° ;iCfd (1)* After tlie reni°val of diffused lipoma, there- j ges of the wound are to be kept apart by proper dressing, tillENCYSTED TUMOURS. 694 the discharge has lost its oily character, and healthy suppuration is set up and then the cure is to be promoted by bringing together the edges of the wound. When the swelling is penetrated by a great many vessels, or its ; roots cannot be removed by the knife without great danger, it may be necessary to apply a ligature around its base, which must be isolated as much as possible, and tire swelling cut off beyond it. Under these circum- stances, the destruction of the remaining substance, by the use of escha- rotics, is exceedingly difficult, and even impossible (a). The employment of a seton for the removal of lipoma, is only fitting when the extir- pation is impossible. This method, however, is always extremely uncertain, as the swelling either does not go away, or soon recurs. [ (1) I have never seen the inconveniences to which Chelius here alludes, which ■ may certainly he prevented by attention in properly dressing the wound, and the appli- cation of compresses, on any part where there is a disposition to bagging of the pus. As a general rule, it is also advisable to follow the roots of the tumour, should they spread i out as they occasionally do; but sometimes this cannot be managed without doing mischief,- by disturbing important parts; it is then best to tear through these roots, as far in as possible, and usually in the course of the cure they suppurate and disappear.—J. F. S.]' X. OF ENCYSTED TUMOURS. ( Twmores cystici, sacculi, tunicati, Cystides, Lupin, Spc., Lat.; Balgyeschwiilste, Sackge- schwulste, Germ.; Tumeurs enkyst/fes, Fr.) Sai.zmann, De quibusdam Tumoribus tunicatis eXternis. Argent, 1719 ; in Hallers Disputationes Chirurgicae, vol. v. p. 383. Girard, Lupiologie, ou Traite' sur les Tumeurs connues sous le nom de Loupes. Paris, 1775. Chopart, Essaies -sur les Loupes; in Prix de I’Academie de Chirurgie, vol. iv. p. 274. Chambon, Memoire sur les Loupes; in Prix de 1’Acad, de Chir., vol. v. p. 332. Jacobson, (Preside Loder,) Dissert, de Tumoribus cysticis. Jen®, 1792. Loder, Ueber die Balggeschwhlste ; in Chirurg.-Medic. Beobachtungen, vol. i. p. 20ft- Weimar, 1794. Bichat, Traite de Membranes, p. 181. New Edition by Hasson. Paris. 1816. Jaeger, M., Ueber Balggeschwulste ; from the Encyclopaidische lYbrterbuch der Medic. Wissenchaft, vol. iv. p. 634. Berlin, 1830. 2248. Encysted Tumours are swellings developed in the cellular tissue of the skin, or in the interstitial cellular tissue of other parls, and characterized by a proper membrane being formed, in the cavity of which there is a secretion of a peculiar substance. That this membrane does not i result from expansion and thickening of the cellular tissue, but must be * considered as a new formation, which, in reference to its nature and its vital peculiarities, agrees with serous membranes, lias been clearly shown by Bichat. The circumstance, that a cyst is formed around foreign substances accidently introduced into the body, does not controvert this t opinion : as this cyst, manifestly originating from pressure on the cellular t tissue, is not a peculiar secreting organ. Meckel (b) may be consulted in opposition to the opinion advanced by Adams that all encysted tumours are to be considered as animals of the lowest kina. wit, as hydatids. , toHs r(l) With reference to the formation of cysts around foreign substance!S ■ . ^ /.A mnnho nf it oc an ovnmtilo ** nf ilopnor cuntml nnrfs 11 ot SO rOtldilV Hunter (d) speaks of it as an example (rt) Schregkr, above cited. (/,) HandbucU dr vol. ii. part '!• P- 1® HandbucU der Pathologischen Anatomic of the deeper seated parts not so readily ' (c) Observations on the Cancerous Breast- don, 1801. 8vo. t (4) On the Blood, Inflammation, *»•KINDS OF ENCYSTED TUMOURS. 695 » >n the suppurative inflammation as those which are superficial; * * * for we find that -xtraneous bodies are in general capable of producing inflammation; but if these Mgxtraneous bodies are deeply seated, they may remain for years, without doing more >i han producing the adhesive inflammation, by which means they are inclosed in a cyst, ft'.tnd only give some uneasiness.”—(pp. 238, 39.) An example of this kind I recollect r j;-taving seen several years since. A medical student in Paris had, for want of better gym ploy men t, mixed himself up with some popular disturbance, to quell which the mili- 9"”ary were called in, and he received a wound in the buttock, which soon united, but left n ome uneasiness and a defined swelling. About three years after, I saw Dupuytren, f| }-t the Hotel Dieu, cut into this tumour, from which a quantity of glairy fluid escaped.; rod the finger being introduced into it, about an inch and a half of a sabre-point was bAelt and removed. But the lodgement of an extraneous body without producing suppu- $ n ation is not confined to deep-seated parts; for Hunter, very shortly after observing in 1 Regard to pins and needles, which, when having been introduced into the body, are well ■known, in general, not to produce suppuration, but either lie quietly in one place, or •o move over the body to an almost incredible distance from the point at which they had h entered:: that “ they owe their want of power in producing suppuration, not entirely sr jo situation, but an some degree to the nature of the substance, metals, perhaps, not gitaving the power of irritation beyond the adhesive; for when the adhesive has taken !i ilace, the part appears to be satisfiedhe continues, •“ this appears also to be the case with t3 she introduction of glass, even in the .superficial parts; a piece of glass shall enter the I kin, just deep enough to bury itself, inflammation shall come on, the wound in the skin, #3f brought together, shall heal by the first intention, and the inflammation shall not Kftxceed the adhesive, but rather degenerate into the disposition for forming a sack, by tvhich means a sack is formed round the glass, and no disturbance is given to the irrita- bility of the parts.”—(pp. 239,240.) Besides the example which Hunter mentions, in iroof of this latter statement, I may refer to the case of the tobacco-pipe in a man’s heek, which I have already mentioned (p. 380); and there is in the Museum of the i loyal College of Surgeons a portion of a glass mirror, which by a fall was driven into . girl’s breast, and there remained for many weeks, without exciting suppuration. .Iiese examples prove, and even from his own showing, that Hunter’s first statement, f “ deep-seated parts not so readily taking on the suppurative inflammation as those : ?hich are superficial,” is not borne out. Nor has it yet been explained, how it is that ■'feign bodies do become encysted, rather than set up suppurative inflammation, by 1 vhich, as under common circumstances, they are expelled from the body.—J. F. S.] 2249. Encysted tumours are distinguished according to the consistence nd nature of the substance contained in their cavity, as, first, Serous Cysts Cystes serosa, Hygroma, Lat.; serose Balggeschwidste, Germ.; Loupes 7-' ereuses ou aqueuses, Fr.) (1); second, Melicerous Tumours, (Meliceris, -'at.; Honiggeschwiilste, Germ. ; Loupes meliceriques, Fr.,) when the ontained substance is of the consistence of honey (.2) ; third, Atheroma- ous Tumours (Atheroma, Lat.; Breigescliwulste, Germ. ; Loupes athe.ro- nateuses, Fr.,) when it resembles pap (3). To these kinds of encysted 'umours Abernetiiy (a) adds a fourth, in which the cavity is filled with iail or horn-like substance, which, when the skin breaks hardens, and projecting, as the cyst continues to secrete, forms a horn-like growth (4). [(1) Simple serous cysts, on the exterior of the body, arc not of frequent occur- When existing in the neck they are commonly called “Hydroceles of the ?e™’” under which name they were first described by Maunoir (b), who mentions nat the disease had been confounded with bronchocelc, on account of its external cha- no A I ■ « WI1 UUVUllUll 0 1*1/ l/ORW Til, I.UIU II ? 1138 been supposed a rare and unusual form of bronchocelc.” (p. 95.) tnce been described by Dr. O’-Beirne (c) and by Bransby Cooper (r/), (*) Above cited, p. 113. W Memoires sur les Amputations, l’llvdrocele > oou, &c Geneve. Paris, 1825. The Memo- ai was read before the French Institut in 1815 : 1,1 ttle rePort upon it by Pkrcy was not favour- Cases have They com- (c) On Hydrocele of the Neck, with Cases and Observations; in Dublin Journal of Medical and Chemical Science, vol vi. p. 1. 1834. (</) Case of Hydrocele of the Neck cured by Setnn, with Observations ; in Guy’s Hospital Re- ports, vol. i. p. 103.696 CAUSE AND NATURE monly originate in the lower part of the neck, just above the collar-bone, of small siz 4 but increase in bulk, covering the whole of that side, and even running across beneat 1 the skin. Sometimes, however, they make their first appearance below the lobe of t! ear, and get attached to the angle of the jaw. As they increase in size they interfe with swallowing and breathing, so as to cause severe cough and symptoms of suft'oc; i tion. Fluctuation is distinctly felt, but they are not always transparent, as thoue. sometimes the fluid they contain is clear and limpid, it is more frequently either lit coffee or coffee grounds, which probably depends on the rupture of some little vest into their cavity, under the exertion of coughing. Maunoir thinks that the cyst fl thicker than in hydrocele of the testicle; and in one of the cases mentioned by FLECBr(a I it was very hard and resisting, and its interior lined with a fibro-cartilaginou covering. In the Museum of the College of Surgeons, there is a specimen of one c these serous cysts removed from the front of the neck by Thomas Blizard ; it is mor than six inches in diameter ; its walls thin and fibro-cellular; a portion of it passed behind the collar-bone, and it contained a clear brownish fluid. Also, another attache*' to the back of the tongue-bone, about two inches in diameter, which contained ; brownish yellow, thick grumous, honey-like fluid, containing abundant crystals o cholestearine. Simple cysts are rare in the female breast, Brodie says he has seen bn two ; and in the Museum at St. Thomas’s there is another. Perhaps here also belong Astley Cooper’s (b) cellulous hydatids of the breast, of which, however, there an generally several in the same gland, as in the specimens in the College Museum. It the same collection there are also examples of a large cyst removed from the thigh- and of another which filled up the thyroid hole, projecting both into the pelvis and thd1 thigh, and followed a kick on the part; both these cases were from females (c). A few years since I had a patient with a cyst on the auricle, which contained a thick brownish,- but transparent glairy fluid; this filled again several times after being punctured, and was cured at last by stuffing with lint, and causing suppuration of the sac. (2) It is probable that these so-called melicerous cysts merely differ from the former in the thicker nature of their contents. (3) Atheromatous cysts sometimes contain a pultaceous white matter, like pap; or, as Home (d) has described it, “ a small quantity of thick curd-like matter, mixed with cuticle, broken down into small parts.” (p. 101.) Some such examples exist in the Col- lege Museum, stated in the Hunterian manuscripts to consist “ principally of a series of cuticles thrown off,” and “a flaky substance, which seemed to be a succession of cuticles, being the same with that which lines the cyst.” Home also observes “ Other cysts of this kind, instead of having cuticle for their contents, are filled with : hair, mixed with a curdled substance, or hair without any admixture whatever, and have a similar kind of hair growing upon their internal surface, which is likewise • covered with a cuticle.” (p. 102.) I have seen in two or three instances these cysts filled with little bodies, semitransparent, and resembling grains of boiled rice flattened and packed closely together, which were probably scales of cuticle. Even teeth, more or less perfectly formed, have been found in a cyst in the orbit, as happened in a case I related by Barnes (e) of Exeter. (4) These are true productions of the sebaceous follicles, and have been already t mentioned (par. 2193, note) in speaking of Horns.] 2250. The nature of the cyst is very various, and has no connexion with the size of the swelling. In those which contain serous fluid the cyst is generally-thin and correspondingly transparent. The cyst is often very firm, tough, fibrous, may be separated into many layers from the outer surface, and often has an almost homy character. At many parts it frequently found bony. The inner surface of the cyst is often smooth and shining; frequently has a velvet-like surface; is sometimes beset "ifl‘ true hairs ; oftentimes it exhibits rather a muco-membranous structure, an irregular, folded, net-like surface. The connexion of the cyst with the surrounding parts is usually but slight, by means of delicate cellular tissue and few vessels; sometimes, however, a very firm connexion >s (а) Annalcs de Cliirurgie, vol. x. p. 3<i. 18-14. (б) Illustrations of Diseases of the Breast, Lon- don, 1829. 4to. (c) Paoet’s Catalogue of the Pathological Col- ic) Med -Chir. Trans., vol. iv. p. 316. 1813 lection in the Museum of the Royal Coll®8® Surgeons of England. r^re«vnoe* (rf) Observations on certain Hornj Eser of the Human Body; in Phil Trans., vol. p. 9.). k v697 OF ENCYSTED TUMOURS. i, bund, and the cyst cannot be well distinguished from its immediate in- E$i-estments. ■ [“Mr. Hunter considers the internal surface of the cyst to be so circumstanced [^respecting the body, as to lose the stimulus of being an internal part, and to receive the fime impression from its contents, either from their nature or the length of application, i the surface of the skin does from its external situation. It therefore takes on actions lited to such stimuli, undergoes a change in its structure, and acquires a disposition milar to the cutis, and is consequently possessed of the power of producing cuticle liijad hair. What the mode of action is, by which this change is brought about, is not ijMsilydetermined; but from the indolence of these complaints, it most probably re- £ mires a considerable length of time to produce it. That the lining of the cyst really aooes possess powers similar to cutis, is proved by the following circumstances • that it a power of forming a succession of cuticles like the common skin, and what is o (brown off in this way is found in the cavity of the cyst. It has a similar power re- 5 >ecting hair, and sometimes the cavity is filled with it, so great a quantity has been r y led by the internal surface.” It is further addedWhat is still more curious, when ay ich cysts are 'laid open, the internal surface undergoes no change from exposure the ^!*.e(^>es cicatrise, anc^ b°tt°m of the bag remains ever after an external surface i iffereufspecimens of the above-mentioned circumstances are preserved in Mr.Hunter’s !>>i flection of diseases ” (a).] i 2251. Encysted tumours are at first always small, and developed slowly ? ’ a laroe Slze- Their form is generally-round, and their extent well de- i ted, if the surrounding parts do not affect their development in a decided I rection. They are movable at their base ; this, however, depends on ■ ie yieldingness of the parts surrounding them, and .on their firmer or ’ t0«nr ?°”n Wlth .them‘ The manner in which an encysted swelling ■ i filled differs, according to the nature of the contained substance and the cyst; the swelling is elastic, expanded and yielding; a distinct in ictuation is often felt; sometimes it is firm ; the skin coverina- it is un- 3 anged. An encysted tumour, when it has readied a certain °size, often <i mains stationary throughout life, sometimes it continues increasing- . >w y. Various symptoms may be produced by the pressure of the B effing upon important neighbouring parts; if on a bone it will destroy '>■ by continued pressure. Nutrition may also be interfered with by several 91 cysted tumours. J I 2252. Sometimes, in consequence of external violence or from unknown I if8’ “*e encysted tumour inflames, and pours into its cavity a puriform 1 Mn 6??rn.al Ski" reddens> and ulcerates, the cyst bursts, and the l ! cin ltS CaV,lty is discharged- If the inflammation be severe, * - membrane forming the sac is loosened into cellular tissue, thrown off J thus a perfect cure is effected. But this part often remains ulcerated,’ 1 charged T 5 a" 1C}!0T0US. lU-conditioned pus continues to be ( ^ healing lg0US gr * 8pn"g “P’ and the aPertlire obstinately 2253. Encysted tumours are to be considered consequences of an un 1 S\frdmeSi„tdrt’TheWhiCh T pr<”‘imate --“IrcaS; fn peculiar kn’f Hey are fre(luently congenital, and then form I rn.onH • • f ncevus malrrnus; sometimes they are hereditary 1 S LeLanS8omeH0nSeqfenCe °f rheVraatic’ g°uty> syphilitic, or scrofu- 4 ! like Thel mf lr°m 1e,xternal VI°lence, continued pressure, and : are most ou Y TT °'? ^ °f the external surface of the body, ' gest quantity 7 develol)ed where naturally the cellular tissue is in •1-254. A peculiar kind of encysted tumour, which most commonly (n) Home, nliove citect, p. 102.698 ENCYSTED TUMOURS.—SEBA CEO US TUMOURS. occurs under the skin of the head and face, and upon the back, though b rarely in other parts, has been subjected to particular inquiry by Astlp Cooper (a), who has fixed its origin in the obstruction of a sebaceo^ follicle of the skin, in which case the tallow-like sebaceous matter collec in its cavity, and its walls expand in the ‘cellular tissue ( Tumor sebaceus The form of this swelling is mostly globular; it feels firm upon the bea< but on the face fluctuates indistinctly. It often presents, at the begii ning, a dusky spot in its middle, which is the plugged-up mouth < the follicle, and from which the contained matter may often times t squeezed (1). When it has attained its ordinary size, from one to tw inches in diameter, it sometimes suddenly subsides, again begins, increases and acquires its previous size. It contains a substance similar to coagulate albumen, which, when the tumour suppurates, stinks horribly. It is ratht less movable than the common encysted tumours, and is more firmly cor nected with the skin. Sometimes the cyst contains hair; sometinu the swelling ossifies (2). Horny excrescences frequently spring from thes tumours ; the horn begins growing at the open part of the cyst, I at first soft and flexible, but soon acquires considerable hardness, an. assumes the nature of horn (£>). I he structure of the cyst varies, o the face it is usually thin, thicker on the back, and thickest on the head it also acquires greater thickness in proportion to the length of time it ha existed. On its interior the cyst is lined with an epidermis. Wha bodies have been artificially introduced, the cyst presents many but minut vessels. Pressure is a frequent cause of this swelling; also a disease- state of tire secretion, a deficiency of its wonted fluidity, a thickness of th substance secreted in the follicle, and flaccidity of its walls. I have see a considerable number of such swellings after the suppression of an erup tion on the head. They frequently seem to be hereditary. _ tJJ rnv The most simple form of sebaceous tumour, or, more properly speaking, &«■ ceous accumulations, as they are called, by Erasmus Wilson (c), is that commonly see- on the sides of the nose, and also upon the face m unhealthy persons, and not m frequently also on the shoulders and back, often in very-considerable number, v aryin in size from that of a pin’s head to a pea, the tops of which becoming blackened, ^ given rise to their vulgar name “ black heads.” Sometimes they lie quiet, giving to face a dirty ugly appearance; but if a little gentle pressure be made on either sidfti substance of which they consist oozes out like little yellowish white worn^or m by which name they are also not unfrequeutly called, of various ‘ength and according to the length and distension of the sebaceous follicle. ^metmies “ acquire considerable size; Asti.ey Cooper mentions that he himself bad the lower part of the dorsal vertebra, which had acquired a diameter of inches, and had a small black spot in its centre, which having been squeezed out a large quantity of sebaceous matter. Sometimes thesej collection not being rubbed out, as they frequently are after washing, or not h purposely squeezed out, inflame the follicles, and thus acne is prodo ’ fe commonly terminates in suppuration, covering the face and back with repea P pimples, especially annoying to females. „ , ,, . and hac Asti.ey Cooper considers the encysted tumours formed on the neaa. 8 ]] to arise merely from obstruction of the sebaceous follicles, and this opinion i- b ^ held. But I have great doubt of its correctness, for such cysts are always e > P aboTi without the least appearance of ever having had any opening; they may ^ very freely beneath the skin, to which they are so loosely attached as well al^as^ b cellular tissue, that after cutting carefully through the skin, they m y g irri,ate shelled out by running a probe around them, unless having by thei .nJoBW. A9ti.ey Coopf.r; in his nnd Travers's W a ether, UeberdieR? .. Surgical Essays, part ii. p. 2^.-Bakr.ch, (Pnes. dread} consider*-! .• Reichel,) Dissert. deTumoribus Capitis tumcatis (6) I Ins subject ‘ost Cephalagiam exortis. I.ipsia-, 1,dS-a.-vn^JreaUng of!Homs. no t wi <>o ycr f f 4 tut699 CURE OF ENCYSTED TUMOURS BY DISPERSION. r he snrrounding parts, they have become adherent to them, and specially to the skin, i rhich by degrees yields to their pressure, and ulcerating, they burst, as the cyst itself, j i hough sometimes as thick as a shilling, tears very easily, and may be split into flakes j i esembling recent fibrin. If left to themselves, after bursting, these cysts produce » roublesome sores, which continue till the cyst either comes away or is pulled away piece- si neal, and then the sores heal. But nothing of this kind happens when the swelling is I ormed by an obstruction of the mouth of the follicle; the follicle either yields to - he accumulating sebacin, and enlarges till, as in Astlev Cooper’s own case, it ^acquires considerable size, but can be emptied by gentle pressure of its contents, D nd nothing further happens beyond the recollection of the sebacin. Or the follicle uflaraes and suppurates, forcing out with the pus the little mass of hardened sebaceous natter, after which the inflammation quickly subsides, and the follicle resumes n ts natural office, without, however, anything which has the least pretension to a £ yst having been discharged. It, therefore, seems to me that from the different courses * hese two forms ran through, they are of decidedly different nature. To this it may also b * added, that the tumours resulting from obstruction of the follicles, have occasionally W heir contents converted into a projecting horn, in the way which Erasmus Wilson has ki .escribed, as already noticed; but so far as I am aware this never happens when i jhe cyst is globular, close, and of the recent fibrous character which I have noticed, Send which is almost invariably seated in the scalp.—j. r. s. (2) The ossification of an encysted tumour or of its ’contents is very rare ; Dal- tmple (a), however, has mentioned an example of “ a small tumour, which he removed n'-"tom beneath the tarsal cartilage of the upper eyelid of a middle-aged man, which instead i s f the usual cheesy matter contained an apparently eai'thy or bony deposit. This tumour a. .as somewhat larger than a pea, and composed of concentric layers of hard earthy haaterial, and in form, was rounded, except at the surface immediately behind the con- ivmctiva, where it was somewhat flattened and rough. * * * Upon examination by the a' horoscope, the concentric layers of this tumour were found composed entirely of epi- Mlium scales, closely agglutinated together; but instead of the usual transparent and nnin lamina with its central nucleus, they were thickened and hard, and contained I r.a,nu\^ ear% molecules, which could be removed by immersion in weak muriatic S cid. No amorphous earthy deposit existed around or among the scales, but the whole •as composed of this •epithelium opaque, >of a light-brown colour, with a clear and urge central nucleits.” (pp. 238, 39.)] 2255. To encysted tumours Ganglia (Ueberbeine, Germ.) are allied; ; iey are round, of slow growth, rarely exceeding the size of a pigeon’s ftbgg, and in general, consisting of thick-walled cavities, developed in the ieighbourhood of joints and sheaths of tendons, containing a fluid similar ■ V> synovia, with a greater or less number of little white cartilage-like ; '0(hes; in some cases, they must be considered as partial expansion of it ne tendon sheaths, but more generally as actually new productions (b). ieY c°mmonly arise from external violence, pressure, violent straining of 01»tendon and the like, on which account they are most frequent on°the 1 ack of the hands and feet; in some instances, they seem to originate ’ ’om constitutional causes. As long as the swelling is small, it produces ] "convenience; but when it acquires large size, it interferes with mo- no,.?" 'in lndame and suppurate, tiresome ulcers are produced (c). hoW T7 °f ^cysted tumours is .effected in various ways, the ith M S de.pends on the,r seat and size, their mode of connexion neo ?e,ShbourinS Parts, their mobility or immobility, the nature of tl0drr^Of the SWelhn^ and the excitability of the patient. These f treatment consist, first, in the dispersion of the swelling ; second, ith tZ v T °r .removal with the knife ; third, in its removal lanv on '°a Ure. ’ Jour"li in opening the tumour and destroying the cyst. 2257 ses require a. combination ot these modes of treatment. .-vlistertj ri’ 07 • L° dispei-sicni of encysted, tumours, volatile rubbings, j ispersing plasters, escharotics, and a multitude of other reme- N(.») M*okkl. - ,(?> Mfrt-'CWr. Trans., vol. xxvi. 18-13. Archives Oincr. do M(^Pl324.'T,]K?v:np.U2"2: o/th^^vofume'!'1''6 bee" “lrC !'ly n°'iccd “t P' 45!>700 TREATMENT OF ENCYSTED TUMOURS. dies have been recommended. Although it cannot be denied that, in son, ! cases, absorption of the fluid contained in the cyst has been effected b j them; yet, however, these remedies do not produce a radical cure a j the cyst remains, and except such inflammation take place that the who] cyst be destroyed and thrown off, no cure is effected. This method i therefore inefficient, and not to be recommended. 2258. The removal of encysted tumours with the knife, is in genera the most fitting mode of treatment, if the nature and seat of the swellin; permit it without danger of severer injury. The mode of proceedinf varies. If the tumour be seated on a thin stem, an assistant draws bad the skin around it, and the operator removes the tumour at its has. with one or more strokes of the knife. By drawing back the skin, a much of it is preserved as is sufficient to cover the wound and allow flu bringing together of its edges. If the tumour be not large, the skii movable upon it and natural, a longitudinal cut should be made through t'he skin, the ends of which should reach a few lines beyond the circum ference of the swelling. The edges of the wound are then separated fron the eyst with the blade or handle of the knife, or with the finger, care; fully avoiding injury of the cyst, which being seized with a hook ant lifted up from the bottom, is to be cut off cautiously with some strokes o the knife. If the skin upon the swelling be diseased, or if the turnout be of very large size, it must be included in two semilunar cuts at t proper distance from its base, so as to preserve sufficient skin for covering the wound. Whilst the cyst is being isolated, an assistant should con- stantly sprinkle -cold water on the edges of the wound or sop up the blooc with a moist sponge. If the vessels spirt forth, they must be compressed with the finger, and tied after the operation is completed. If the cyst be wounded and the fluid escape, it is difficult to remove it entirely. It it be firm and hang loosely, it may be torn out with the forceps. Whew the whole cyst has been removed, it must always be endeavoured to bring the edges of the wound together and produce union. But, in cases, where the cyst has been removed only on one side, where the parts are very lax and yielding, the extirpation is difficult, and many cuts must be made in various directions, the wound filled with Knt, and its edges only drawn together when the bottom is covered with granulations. . 2259. Tying the encysted tumour, applies to those cases in which ttow vessels running to the swelling are very large and numerous, and grea danger of severe bleeding is to be feared ; or when extirpation is danger** on account of the neighbourhood of important organs, especial]' > vessels. The tumour is to be tied immediately at its base, if that re no too broad, or a cut is first made in the skin at the base, and in this, 1 feature applied with a loop-tier, and daily tightened till the tumo come off. This method is always very tedious, accompanied with niuc , often very great pain, and when the swelling begins to putrefy, the sten is often unbearable. . . , . 2260. Opening the cyst, and removing it by suppuration or with c is performed in different ways. First. In many cases when the c0,l"t*(>I)t of the tumour with the neighbouring parts is not very firm, it «s to cut into the swelling with either a single longitudinal or with a cial cut, to empty its contents and fill it with lint till suppura 10" when the toened cyat can he removed either piecemeal orjl " ■ • ■ ’ ■ ■ with caustic, by appo - on Second. The tumour is opened with a lancet, or witn ca\,B.uu’“"^dli oil of vitriol, or butyr of antimony, and scratching the skin \uti * I * ,1 ittlilMUBMWTREATMENT OF GANGLIONS. 701 Kill the cyst be penetrated, then its contents are emptied, and for some lays its interior must be irritated by frequently introducing a probe or nii ouching it with either of the just-mentioned escharotics, after which the 9- yst separates and can be removed. Third. A seton, smeared with some M rritating ointment, may be passed through the greatest diameter of the :ti amour to produce the separation and death of the cyst. Fourth. The i welling may be punctured with a trocar, its contents allowed to flow iuhrough the canula, and some irritating fluid injected and allowed to escape, when the swelling has been filled and become painful. Soothing Jboultices are then applied, and when the swelling is soft and fluctuating^ :) ;n opening must be made through which the pus usually collected in the yst escapes. These modes of treatment as well as the ligature, may be ■mployed under the same circumstances, and especially when the cyst is not h ery thick. I have often made use of the first and second methods in ei ncysted tumours of the face, and frequently after emptying have pulled m ut the cyst; they have the advantage of leaving a smaller scar than that lit f extirpation (a). 2261. When the tumour has its roots very deeply seated amono' i npoitant parts, which must be injured by complete removal, a mixed m -eatment must be had recourse to. First. The cyst must be laid bare at )? s base as far as possible, without injuring any important vessel, a ligature r aplied around, and the tumour cut off in front of it. Second. As much : f the cyst must be removed as can be done safely, and the remainder ■ sstroyed with caustic. Third. The cyst must be opened, filled with lint, lnd when it begins to crumple together, it must be attempted to separate from its bed. Fourth. When the root of the tumour cannot be «ot without a dangerous wound, it must be isolated as far as possible, •awn up, and a ligature applied with a loop-tier. These mixed modes of *> -oceeding are very often required in encysted tumours of the neck (b). f 2262- Encysted tumours caused by stoppage of a sebaceous follicle 1 ay at first, when the follicle is merely a spot filled with blackish hard- ijied tallow-like substance, be emptied by introducing a probe into r> e stopped opening, and then squeezing out the substance. If force P' requisite to squeeze it out, it is better to enlarge the opening with cut. Frequent squeezing prevents the refilling of the follicle.0 The • jmoval of these tumours from the head is not always free from danger is, however, unnecessary to dissect them out, unopened ; a cut may be ade’ contents emptied, the cyst seized with a hook or forceps lifted r \)*f grated (1‘). When a horny growth has been formed in the th the'horn (c) neCeSSary’ to prevent its recurrence, to remove the cyst thvSe Cyf KP°n th? head’if n0t adherent from inflam- rea ,y , out> fr the skin only be cut through ; and it is more convenient 99C<r on™ wh0 e’than after °PeninS them as Ghelius recommends.—J F S ] still riet of ganglions must be guided by their condition. itments l’ttheiF ?SpeP10n should be attempted by rubbing in volatile ■tments, or turpentine by repeated application of tincture of iodine, by th amrid I?1 a,nd. 1‘emlock Piasters, by blisters, by constant pressure TersS and G “‘l W, .banda£e’ and the lik«- If they will not be so JB _ 5 ie cys^ its subcutaneous rupture may be attempted '^nnde, vol. i! part ^*,r ^at,,r un(* {|®p Bal^gesclnvnlsto am Halse und fiber cine neue BauNNiyoiuiiHFv llidwir din p *• Metliode dieselbe mit Slcherheit zu vcrrichton* OHAU8EN» ueber die Exstirpation Wiirzburjf, 1805. (c) Astley Cooper, above cited, p. 241.. i t< ;rTREATMENT OF GANGLIONS. 702 b li a c a i 0 f t s t A J 1 c ] 1 £ ( < ] 1 I I I i I703 HYDATIDS. skin. He then places the blade of the knife flat as at first, and divides the hi sac horizontally right and left. This done, a piece of whalebone as thick >q is paper, and barely a quarter of a line broad, is passed in upon the blade 91 of the knife, so as to keep up the constant escape of the synovia; this ij< Is properly fixed, and a cold wash applied. On the fourth day the whale- i oone is removed, and pressure made, which if the patient can bear it b should be continued for eight days. Further experience is requisite to £i lecide whether by this mode of subcutaneous division, the return of the h\ janglion is more certainly prevented, than by mere puncture, and whether nore serious symptoms are not to be dreaded. It must not be forgotten > hat the principal object in this mode of treatment, is most carefully to prevent the entrance of the air into the cyst, but this, with the various urnings and movements of the knife, &c., seems scarcely possible. Extirpation of the ganglion, which may be necessary if its walls >e very thick and tough, and the above-mentioned plans have been unsuc- cessful, must be performed in the same way as removing encysted tumours, ! nd with great care, that none of the tendons are wounded. The edges of he wound must always be brought together as closely as possible to h prevent the admission of air (2). k [(1) It is not often that a ganglion can be broken by pressure with the thumbs • but 1 F "“7 ln general be managed by a smart blow with a book or a piece of flat board (.Zj 1 can hardly think the removal of a ganglion ever needed, and should be verv orry to undertake such operation.—J. F. S.] y XI.—OF HYDATIDS. (Hijdatis, Lat.;, Ibjdatiden, Germ.; Kystes hjdatiques, Fr.) InKlwo’ TH' G" De Hydatibus in corP°re animali, prasertim liumano repertis. Ludersen, De Hydatibus. Gottingsc, 1808. v : Laennec ; in Bulletin de la Faculte de Medecine, No. 10. 1805. KnS-10ElltOZOOrUm’ SCU Vermium Intestinalium Historia naturalis. Amstelo- ■ Bremser, Ueber lebende Wiirmer im lebenden Meuschen.. Wien, 1819. iviCwvEUHER; in Diet, de Medec., vol. i. p. 465, Article, Acephalocgstes. Paris, l if264' n'jdatids, in some respects, range with encysted tumours; they 'mnbaS-u0UndJsh,10va1, or otherwise shaped serous vesicles, containing I Ko-S. heri SUlg-y °F collected tether in the different organs of our , ,hich 1 TVn t ie ,CaV,ltieS’ 0r surrounded with a second covering, i vinJanimT ‘ the surrounding parts. These hydatids are , pable oHl Wn Pa-'■ by thGlr havin& decided organs, and being 5$that tS’0tlon> nut1ritlon’ a"d ^production, (Budolphi,) and, in 1 jhich thl y 6 qU1, l00se and unc°nnected with the covering by lL t£ S" s.urr,ou,nded- These hydatids are divided into two classes^ l e obseTvJV U/ ’ ^ their bladder-like expansion, decided organ^ } d last. 9(snurus’ and Echinococcus, of which the first asides the vpsieleT 'V * in..nian ’ second, those in which no other organ 2265. Tim r r* ,e°n <i1 * * *(s^v,ered’ as the Acephalocyslides. ertn.i i« rn m lceTcus Cellulose (Blasenschwanz des Zellgewehes, ‘'eral layers rfV' ' \n tb<3 C®1 hilar, tissue of the organs, between the [ e conjunct),■ es’.ln t.ie brain and its vascular network, beneath . 5,am.ber? 0f the eye floating in the’aqueous e> It8 Slze 18 that of a pea or bean, is most coni-704 KINDS OF HYDATIDS. monly elliptical, rarely globular, and consists of a delicate bladder fille j with serum, on which the retracted extremity of the head may be di: ^ . • .11 if 1 1 _ _ n U/i »—i«/Ain/if nrl Ktr crmon'/in e~r • onn i VV 1111 SCI Ulllj Ull vvincii j -- j -- —- tinguished as a dusky body, but can be projected by squeezing; and i i ii I*. n nfl n /i/Miinnl ti>iinL- QrmaM unth LJiigui&ncu as a ciuoivj uuuj, i j ~j ~~i o' % quadrangular shape with four suckers, and a conical trunk, armed with g _ — /■ ■« i j 1 1 1 If’ K — « n n I. . n n n f 1 ti r» i*wa ««. r double row of hooks, are then observed. The neck is short and narrows i than the head, and the part next the vesicle. _ 2266. The Echinococcus hominis (Hulscnwurm, Germ.) attains the si? of a walnut, and even that of the fist, occurs for the most part only i the organs of reproductive life, and presents in its interior, nuroerow little worms as big as grains of sand or of millet seed, on each of whici if examined with the naked eye, may be perceived a single circle of hook and suckers. . 2267. The Acephalocysts exist as large or small vesicles, from the siz of a lentil to that of a child’s head, and of various number and colorn Where developed, they are always surrounded with a more or less toug membrane, in which are found bladders of different number. This raem brane is generally very firm, sometimes at certain parts fibrocartilagmoui cartilaginous, or even bony, and its thickness proportionate to its size, an the time it has existed ; it is often closely connected with the surroundin parts, especially in parenchymatous organs, sometimes only loosely s< when in the midst of an organ having much cellular tissue, or when l the neighbourhood of a cavity. The inner surface of this membrane i lined with another membrane, frequently smooth, sometimes uneven, w 9 exhales a transparent, limpid, yellowish, purulent, thick, turbid fluid, j which the hydatids swim singly or in great number, even as many as up t 700 or 800. The membrane of the hydatid itself is elastic, extensible, if tracts after its contents are emptied, is sometimes so delicate that it MM with the least touch, and sometimes thick and capable of being separate into four or five layers. It is never attached to its covering. 1 he Hun in it is commonly as limpid as pure water, except that it contains a «ata quantity of albumen; it has for the most part the same app^ranc that of the covering in which it is contained ; it has, however, been ioun transparent,, whilst that of the membrane was purulent 2268. Acephalocysts are developed in all organs, in the 1 , ^ brain, kidneys, lungs, muscles, bones, and the like, and the da"<=■ ar disease depends on the importance of the organ. I hen- s> i h always indecisive, and afford a more or less probable conjecture , ^ when they have been once present in an organ and been symptoms may recur (I). Only when such swellings are qi 1 ^ 0 they may, perhaps, be distinguished by their unequal fluctu closer examination with the cold hand by their peculia Sometimes in such swelling, a peculiar feel of rubbing, aW b on touching this vesicle in the examination to discover fluctuation, ^ perceived. Many have doubted this ; ITgne has, however, twice it and considers it a decisive character (a) . ana consiuers n v-v- , , c...,* Cn Thus pain in the region of the kidney has been observed, an t jn apu quantity of hydatids with the urine; then follows a cure, till .he symptoms ** and announce the speedy discharge of hydatids (6). of lbe necl Tl have seen two examples of acephalocysts; the first was in tli jal muscle nmediatelv above the collar-bone, between the steraomMtoid and t ^ ud UD of • L aintnlv above the collar-bone, between the steruomastoid ana and „„ j nnmedia y ld it was ai,0ut the size of a hen’s egg, transPa bejuerelv J •»*"« ™ “> »d* *« 10 ■ <:>i.»-»*—h-■>«p-3- “*■AND THEIR TREATMENT. 705 ■> ratery cyst. A puncture was made in it, and about an ounce of clear fluid discharged • * S he lips of the wound were brought together, and it soon healed. But in the course of hree or four days, the part again swelled, the skin inflamed, suppuration took place ra< he wound opened, and a portion of the supposed cyst protruded, which being gentlv 0 rawn out, was found to be an acephalocyst; a cure soon followed. The second case >ad several of these animals, each contained in its proper cyst in the cavity of the ja elly, and attached to the doublings of the peritoneum; one of them, large enough to * ■“*>“ a P'nt of was situated between the base of the bladder and the rectum and v lied up the cavity of the pelvis, thrusting the bladder upwards above the symphysis uljts’ and by the pressure it made on the lengthened neck of the bladder, causing re- intoon of urine, for the relmf of which, it was necessary to cut into the perineum, * ',h.e“ ™ was drawn,oa ; but 01 e catheter continually failed in the performance f its duty till an enormously long one was passed; the patient suffered much, and died ji i about a week, when the cause of difficulty was explained by the position of the djfephalocyst, as above mentioned—J. F. S.] 1 H 2269. The mode of development of these hydatids is unknown • when i™g in lai¥e quantity, they are often produced anew, of various number ; -id size, in the cavity of each hydatid. They not unfrequently occur external lnJulT> as blows, falls, and the like; frequently, however Hithout any external cause. What internal diseased action is under these (circumstances operating is unknown. They frequently die ; the fluid then ■"* irrn tki^ens’ ,and becomes yeIlow ; the vesicle crumples b n, and the thickened fluid is changed into a fat-like or earthy substance. "he membrane often inflames, fills with pus, the vesicle dies, and its remains HT“ tbe r 1Somet,meS the>r make their way into an excretory duct , ' id are discharged ; sometimes into a serous cavity, where they quickly ten f t i:i5a,nmatl0n- When enclosed in a bone, they so thin its ! jbstance that fracture occurs on the slightest occasions, as Dupuytren fcfved in the uPPer arm> and Wickham in the shin-bone (Pigne') 1 ™ ]S ia 0ie Museum at St. Thomas’s an excellent example of acephalocvsts I Xh,e medallai'y cav0y the upper arm. The bone had been brokenprobablv Sr &d'h,t lreatmM f Matidous swellings, when external, simply JTV" thwr remova\ In domg this, the thin vesicle is general LtT” m“St be r“"OT«l with Cooper’s scissors, and the «&|n already treated of (par. 1870.) ’ d hanges of the "‘ucous bags, have - , . ^ib CARTILAGINOID BODIES IN JOINTS = ! 2 ST™ "* 0bSe"“ti0”S °f E“inb„r6h, v„l. iv. p. 2„. ’ eimarus, De Tumore Ligamentorum circa Articulos, Fungo Articulorum dicto. oS OL ^D" ARD ’ ln Medical Observations and Inquiries, vol. . p. 329. 2706 CARTILAGINOID BODIES Home, Everard ; in Transactions of a Society for the Improvement of Medical a Surgical Knowledge, vol. i. p. 229. Desault; in his (Euvres Chirurgicales, vol. i. p. 288. Biermann, (Praes. Heilmann,) Dissert, de Corporibus juxta Articulos mohilibi subject. Observ. Wirceb., 1796. . Abernethy, John, On the Removal of loose substances from the Knee; in lus Si gical Works, vol. ii. p. 213. Gunther, Dissert, de Muribus in Genu. Duisb., 1811. Lander, Einige Bemerkungen iiber die beweglichen Concremente in den Gelei kapseln; nebstzwei Beobachtungen iiber die Ausschneidung solcher Korper aus d» Kneigelenke; in von Siebold’s Chiron, vol. ii. p. 359. . . j Larrey, Notice sur les Cartilages mobiles et contre nature des Articulations; id 1 Memoires de Chirurgie Militaire, vol. ii. p. 421. Schreoer, Beobachtungen und Bemerkungen iiber die beweglichen Concremet- in den Gelenken, und ihre Exstirpation. Erlangen, 1815. Kohler, Dissert, de Corporibus alienis in Articulis obviis. Berol., 1817. Hancre ; in von Graefe und von Walther’s Journal, vol. xxvii. pt. n. p. 449. tj 2271. Cartilaginoid bodies are sometimes formed within the capsules • joints, and are either loose in the cavity, and can change their place every direction, or are attached to the capsule by a neck, and vary co. siderably in regard to their nature, size and number. , 2272. These bodies are most commonly noticed in the knee-joint; d they have been seen in the ankle- elbow-jaw-shoulder- and wrist-joint They have generally an oblong flattened form, with rounded edges, ai a smooth glossy surface; they are, however, met with r°uW' even very irregularly shaped. Sometimes they are very soft, frequent almost cartilaginous, sometimes bony, but much more common y laginous and bony together, and then have a bony nucleus. kuch asa quite loose have often a peculiar, completely uuorgan.zed appearan^ are rough, granular, and have the exact shape of the space they occup. These bodies vary in size from that of a grain of hemp to that ofanalmom and larger ; the ordinary size is that of a large bean. In general there only found one such body, though frequently several and even a gre number. I have seen in one person three, and in another two- . . 2273. The symptoms which these foreign bodies m the caw J* produce, vary according to their size, form, seat of their and according as they are loose in the joint, or sLll attached ^^ If such body be not large, and if it be developed in that part tl ^ where it is unaffected by the rubbing together of the ends of tl bo^ and if it be attached by a short stem, it may exist for a^great• leng 1 * without producing any symptoms; but if the stem o w • attached be longer, so that in the different between the ends of the bones, violent pain and suddc 1 tf moving the joint are produced, which symptoms do not c . ^ foreign body have again escaped from between the bones,■ °cbt motion is often sufficient to cause this pain. So long as i hf.tween tl by the stem, can the patient precisely point out where it J *» J® d 0 ends of the bone. In the knee-joint these bodies are genemlly * * one or other side of the knee-cap, and can be distinctly yariable; forwards. If the body be quite loose, its position is e J a «*. »* ns te loose, ns puamuu .o • — j . an gets'into different parts during the various movements of pai the patient himself can, by pressure on the joint, an J ,vnlpton even the patient himself can, by pressure on me ju,..., - j ton ticular movement, push it into any position he pieces. n foljowed b ■rise either gradually after previous violence, which has b arise either gradually707 IN JOINTS. (•consequent inflammatory swelling of the joint, or when, without any in- ■ jury there lias been more or less severe pain, with or without swelling ilpnd which is commonly taken for a rheumatic affection. Frequently the 0 pain connected with these foreign bodies is very severe and constant, and fi accompanied with inflammatory swelling of the joint, or an excessive m accumulation of synovia. The symptoms which these concrements, when not appearing externally, cause, may It -x easily mistaken for an arthritic or rheumatic affection. The diagnostic characters * of the former are, when besides the patient having never been subject of those diatheses, he pain comes on suddenly, and immediately after moving the joint: and when the ittacks have already frequently occurred after any decided movement, if it subside whilst the joint is kept perfectly at rest in a certain posture; if it return on motion, 1 >r the slightest attempt at changing position, neither day-time nor the state of the itmosphere influencing it; when the swelling is dissipated by rest, but the movements : ire not proportionally more free; and lastly, when the patient, who has already suffered g ;lentolSmoSXntac«T reC°VerS the free 1156 of the Joint immediately after some acci- 2274. The commencement of these cartilage-like bodies in joints, is I -ommonly but not always, preceded by external violence. Opinions vary I considerably in regard to their peculiar mode of formation. Some per- ons (Reimarus, Monro) think they are pieces of cartilage broken off; binbe]neVeS,th6m \° be the J'0int-g1ands torn off by violence; I 1. f0r f NchanSe of a Portion of the synovial capsule , ’ fDKfER (c) suPPoses them to have been originally extra- cted blood which has become organized, and assumed the nature of the ■ 'an with whlch it was connected; Sander (d) holds them to be preci- K ormS ’■°m.,the synoma >, Laennec is of opinion that these bodies are C®the 0ater rSl\rfa-e- 0f the S>rnoviaI membrane, and gradually ! ress into the cavity of the joint, the synovial membrane with which they tfhis stemt y S and f0TuS ,a ?em by which they are attached nis stem is, in consequence of the displacements the foreign body suffers 1 tehr0Uih’and the boc]y18 tlien found loose in the joint. Richerand (e) 1 lat- Si°me tbeSe bocbes are organic formations, vicious growths I lZZrtTmi™’ Wi’St 0th“s. the “""'“'V are inlrganic I , the result ef„ t £ of l‘ke opmion, ant] considers the inorganic iilKati“ ,* matter dl’P0M,ed ™ the exterior, ant! either a new I ■ according to the laws of elective attraction, melkr ,minatuially mixed synovia, or as incrustations, to which their ' mula ofTC U? °POn a SeCtl°n throuSh them leads, of which sometimes , / lymPb’ sometimes parts of the natural apparatus of the joint y^stem f ?6re a,1S° bel0n° th0se bodies which /previously connected “1 theiHncrIL 'rsubtf Tt ^ the 0r^ardc station ceases, •e built up of homn? th® law/ of Seneral attraction, so that they int. The origin of °eneous matter from the surrounding fluids of the •emical relation of af er-P™d,ucts, depends on a change of the ey are living growth^nfH86* ^ 7^7'^’ or mechanical violence; ^erspreadino- Ihf hl/V f '6 gl5"dular ^t-apparatus, of the cartilage emselves; °they aie i°f,the bo"es’ even of the joint-surfaces atous, or penetrated with ^6nera a toPl,lcal mature, sometimes sarco- °m the bone • thev H bo.ne ’ tll0Se become bony which spring ! . al'aCl,ed °lthCT “• loosd/by their basel £ 6) ‘Nea1l!0nR’ above cited> P- 14. •bp. 99. Ucmerk«ngen und Erfalirungen, 1 0Ur> above cited, p. 03? (d) In Diet, des Sciences Medicales, vol. iv p. 1 -7, Article Cartilage. vSn? Nosographie Chirurgicale, vol. ii. p. 349. i'lltn Edition. 2 Z 2708 OPERATIONS FOR REMOVAL or are entirely loose, though on account of their rough surface they ca never be so movable as the inorganic concretions. The joint is in the*- cases always more or less inflamed, or even the subject of actual degener. tion ; whilst, on the contrary, the formation of the inorganic concretion little, if at all, interferes with the integrity of the joint. [In St. Thomas’s Museum there are several examples of these foreign bodies fror joints and ganglions, which support Hunter's notion of their formation. In one, the are numerous small flattened discs, not exceeding, a pea in diameter, which were evac . . .1 1 1 O xl 1 1 *l.n* End rvvAVmblv boon nn T*t r\T Q tplUlrtlJ ated^from a'swelling on the back of the hand that had probably been part of a tendo. - - ' -■ - ’ — 1 -e cbrin or albumen, and have hollo sheath, and had inflamed. They are composed of fibrin , . centres. In another, in which many, little bodies were in the wrist-joint about the size flattened peas, their surface has a cartilage-like appearance, and, when cut through, the substance is seen to consist of concentric layers of fibrin, with a small central holloi In other preparations of larger size the central hollow has disappeared, and the who; mass seems homogeneous, and resembles cartilage. There is also a fine example of tl result of synovial inflammation of the knee-joint, in which a large portion ot the ca tilaarinous covering of the joint-ends of the bones has been destroyed; but on sever parts of the synovial capsule numerous bunches of grape-shaped growths, with more (■ less thick stems, have formed, and one of these as big as a bean has become detache< and is loose in the cavity of the joint. I do not think, however, that this condition ca be fairly taken as an example of the ordinary mode of production of loose cartilage, though it certainly explains the process very well.—J. F. S.] _ * 2275. Of these several opinions Laennec’s seems best'to point out tl. progressive growth of these bodies; and to show the relation betwee- them and those bodies, which are in like manner developed on the surtao of the testicle and its vaginal tunic, and are sometimes firmly attached, sometimes quite loose. It is perhaps also not improbable that those toreig- bodies in ioints which have not a trace of membranous covering, whos surface is rough, powdery, their texture rather lamellar, and which haw the form of the space in which they are lodged, are produced in the sam manner, and that their previous structure is only changed by the rubDia- of the joint-surfaces, after they have been long contained in the joint iror which they have separated. , In other respects Laennec’s opinion is not to be considered gene satisfactory, inasmuch as experience has proved that portions of t le J cartilages are detached, or little exostoses formed around these cartilage, and may be broken off by accident (a) ; although Reimarus and oth incorrectly assume this as the general mode of their origin, " i gagni has denied, since the erosions frequently observed on thei ear^ surfaces have no connexion at all with the origin of these bo 1(ys’ are in general of spherical form, and greater thickness than t ic J tilages. Whether these bodies still grow after their detachment, a crease by the attraction of certain parts of the synovia, is not 0 tradicted ; the opinion, however, is doubted by many (b). hlain bodies are certainly formed by concretion of the albumen in the y and arc to be placed in the same rank with the foreign bodies w hi in great numbers in the mucous bags. ^ 2276. When these foreign bodies cause severe symptoms, i^ ‘, eDl0t 22(0. YV iien lIlcSlJ ioreigll UUUlcS tauoc --j r 7 tllG m# accessible part of the joint, or can be brought and fixed there, { ^ (n) Bkodik ; in Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. iv. p.27G. —Sc Scukkofr, above cited, p. 8. (ft) Samokl Coopkk, On the Diseases of p. 34. London, 1807.709 OF CARTILAGINOID BODIES FROM JOINTS. •(«) Above cited, p. 11. 3 bandaging, and so to prevent their getting between the joint-surfaces, and 4 t,lus causing pain. Although in many cases these bandages are of no use, and even increase the pain, yet should they be tried, as in several instances 4 they effect not merely momentary but permanent relief. I 2277. Before the operation is performed, it must always be ascertained, r: by careful examination, whether there be not several such bodies in . the joint. If the joint be painful and inflamed, this must first be got rid (■of by strict rest, leeches, cold applications, and the like. Schreger, in v reference to the above-mentioned division of foreign bodies in joints g observes, regarding the prognosis, that in the first kind of these concre- tions the operation produces no dangerous reaction, when the structure of the joint is healthy, or at least its interior life is not affected ; but in -the ■fecood form, their removal is useless, and accompanied with dangerous rj symptoms (a). ° ■ JthrJLbr tak6n t0 distineujsh between these two different conditions ; the *n^ant is free from pain, except when the concretion gets out of place - the malio- ‘ by C°nStant Paiu> even when the after-formation rests on the outer , Th0 *—r todies are loose, and movable orfaces ofPthT I’ ^ excresce1nces> 011 the contrary, are attached to the " * of, he whence they grow, and therefore remain in the same place and tet lTt5P%0f hflVKS their Ration altered by pressure or by the motions of the heir base the b,y-a fibl'°US adhesion> or separated by secretion from | ble- wMst O^the nn ! restricted, but always, though slight, still observ- irra’of thp twn tbf C0“t,'aT’ the la.tter never move from their place of origin, and the motion Lalt v wV, °f their.°PP.0S,te surfaces produces the sensation of their previous Pr°VeS thG j°iDt t0 P°SSeSS its natural mtegrity in I LTswdlkTo thJ rrC°r l6SS Chan6e of form, that is, a partial eptible. ^ J0lnt"en(^s bone, or of the capsular ligament, per- larmer °Peratl0n °.n tbe knee-joint is performed in the following f \ be patient being seated on a table in the horizontal posture, e foreign body is pressed to the upper part of the knee-joint, on one or 65 rrd,n? to ABERNETHy> on the inner, but according to ted JKJ"? 0,1 the„0;ite1r side> towards the condyle of the thigh, and viTbo 6 GgerS th<;left hand’ 80 that h cannot es^pe ; if there be S ttt? they mUuSt aH be fix6d in the same wa^ An assistant now I convex hiT ^ much as Posslble upwards, and the operator makes with , • 8uffi . b*st?ury a vertical cut through the skin and capsular ligament urtS,"^ffWf0reign,b0ddy *,° be ^ P"*«* V or removed made which 1 ^ b°dy awaythe very moment the cut r, It thP\ J 1 e seen’ 11 must dlrect,y be brought batik to the cut •ne.h W°hendtheStfo C-at °"ce, cI,°Sed; if tHis canndt be easily and quickly ean^ThenaSlehWf y'J? e" r?noved> the vvound must b* i by bet'v.een the internal and external wound got rid refully wirh°sticLl VV ,1Ch be®n drawn UP> and then closed most no inflammatory w P aster- The Ilmb is to be kept strictly at rest, lick union Jut ify T,fl ‘l0™ IT W0Und unites a few days by active ^tinlTol Sh°,uld 8et in’ k must be counteracted ‘tin the cas!ft featrnent> 218 leeches and cold applications, niently in the little cleft betwonnoperated, the loose substance was placed most con- ne- and the margn ofThekneeni edf-8 °f ‘^condyle, and the head of the shin- ;nmmends, I drew it ttehUv m P! lnst*ad of drawing the skin up, as Chelius ltenal consequence in^whteh liw ^ l-*°- know> however, that it is of 1 which direction the skin is drawn; and the best rule wouldSARCOMATOUS TUMOURS. 710 seem to be, to draw in that direction in which the skin yields most readily, so as to ke< it. the outer and inner wounds farthest apart. This will principally depend on the su i and seat of the loose substance, which will also decide whether its removal shall h effected on the inner or outer side of the knee-cap. The operation applies only to tl loose cartilaginous or bony bodies, and not to the malignant growths to which SchregeuS refers, for which amputation is the only remedy.—J. F. S.] 2279. Schreger alone has hitherto removed these bodies from tl a shoulder-joint. The mode of operation must be directed by the seat (^K the concretion. The operation would be unsafe if performed in the armw pit; attempts should therefore be made to press and fix the loose boda above and before, or above and without, the short head of the m. bicep- a flexor cubiti. The arm must be pressed to the trunk; an assistant draw the skin as much as possible inwards, and the operator then makes wit: j a convex bistoury a cut through the skin and deltoid muscle, directly upo.> the body, and in the course of the fibres of that muscle, ties the divideal circumflex humeral artery, and having stopped the bleeding, opens thtri capsular ligament, and removes the foreign body. The treatment of th, 1 wound is managed in the same way as in the operation on the knee-joint; I The removal of similar bodies from other joints, as the elbow and the like, is cor 1 ducted in the same manner. _ ■ 2280. To diminish the danger in the removal of these foreign bodiefcl from joints, by preventing the entrance of the air, the subcutaneouuj operation has been proposed, by two stages and at different periods o I time (1). The foreign body having been fixed in the above-mentionei i manner, a transverse fold of skin is made at the part, thiough tie I Kldmipv is carried under the skin, and by one or mor ; healed, the foreign body is removed by simply cutting through the PM Further experience is required to prove whether serious symptoms cm , always be prevented by this mode of operation, as the cases at pr ~ I given lead to expect. (1) Goyrand (a) lias re knee-joint in this way, wit! condition of the patient. vut cn a \ nr<n\T a mnns TUMOURS.711 SARCOMATOUS TUMOURS. r not of very frequent occurrence, and sometimes acquire enormous size. Lawrence (a) ■j removed one from the buttock of a female, which “ had commenced at the posterior % part of the left labium pudendi, and had extended gradually along the buttock and 2 behind the os coccyyis.” It was twice as large as an adult’s head, “ its greatest circum- v ference was thirty-two inches, it was twenty-one inches round at the basis, eleven inches i! from the latter to the middle of its inferior edge, and eight in the line of the basis from the coccyx towards the trochanter.” The root in the labium could not be removed, t md after some time a fresh growth occurred, and the tumour attained a third of its ! -5 former size. It was subjected to a second operation, the root followed, and the swelling js completely eradicated. I have seen similar tumours, though of less size, two or three ic imes on the labia pudendi, which parts seem rather more subject to them than others. A very remarkable instance of repeated and quick reproduction of one of these ^ umours, occurred to my colleague Mackmurdo two or three years since. It grew from he under surface of the urethra of a woman, and was as large as an orange. It crew gain rapidly, and was again removed at the end of a month, having become larger than • .t first. In five days it had re-formed and was as large as before, then continued Epr;rowmg more slowly; and at the end of three months, having increased considerably ■eyond the size of the former tumours, was a third time removed, and has not since t. etumed. Sometimes the neck by which they are attached becomes considerably lengthened : in t. I homas s Museum, there is an instance in which the neck is about six or eight » caches long, and the tumour as big as the fist. Occasionally, instead of having any neck, the whole cellular tissue of an entire limb jay grow enormously; I recollect an instance several years ago, removed by Astley 8 '°°PER> m which along the inner margin of each arm, one more so than the other a swelling of this kind extended from the middle of the upper arm to the wrist I bout two hands breadth deep, and having the appearance of a hanging sleeve. ! Confused with these simple overgrowths of the cellular tissue, are those enlargements I i me prepuce and scrotum, which correspond to the overgrowths of the prepuce of the ; “T\Vi • the ndl,lPh?’ and depend on slow inflammation with adhesive deposit in S wi, Uiar tlssu<r In tde prepuce, this condition in which the cellular tissue is filled / artn seinltransParent jelly-like substance, frequently follows severe external EJs s* r rkbe i*> “>«»? * <•« i w™ seen *, ^ u ar tlssue of the face, in which the eyelids were so completely filled , -™,r fPertures were simple transverse slits, and the woman was scarcely able even l ln this case I removed some deep slices (which were semitransparent, Jl “d(,dld not ooze out any fluid when squeezed) about a third of an inch in width the int 1 if !ntervals> from bel°w the lower lid, and hoped that the fluid contained , e wound^b ’l T Spaff 'vou.ld, have escaped through the wounds, but it did not, and afW fh ed ^fkty with but little relief, as at the present time, ten or a dozen 1 bargemenftnftbPeratl?n’ herifaC1e-1S1neaily ln the same condition as at first. The • id soni, f 1 fvt ie scrotum this kind is a very common occurrence in warm climates. ■ le scrotumnfn Crtp,ns, whlch weighea seventy pounds. Df.lpech <c) removed d Listov (l\ na lve of PcP'gnan, of which the weight was sixty French pounds - : lenShfl 1-8 ag° r.emoved a similar swelling from a young man of comniri ’ wl!lch had been growing twelve years, and weighed nearly fifty pounds J fi! from7h '^eSeth? Scrotum of the French Foreign Minister, DelZcroix, which' Me) and aTtbT ty‘S1X i° tWenty'seven P°unds, was removed by Imbert de Lon-’ The ’and at„the tlme made g^at noise, was trivial. fferenSn *hT °f Sarc«™i, of which Chelids speaks, as attacking organs, is very 5 true m. oif. 1 U , tlss,uc is filled with adhesive matter. In the testicle it is I dargementof the nhm°T &?d 'S n0t ™alipiant. It has some resemblance to the r- pre opaque andli SkWden alre!uly referred to, but the deposited matter is is more or less comnletelt Wted’ f the stracture of whatever organ it is lodged ' ' cc.—J. F. s.j ' P t y St’ and w ien cut into has an almost scirrhous appear- 2282 Th'J f ack. Tii JL 0rlltl ,°^ 1,*iese swellings is various, sometimes they have a M(i(1 ,, era iey Srow quickly and attain an enormous size. They vi?p.73.11' ,<$ ’’radical Suwery, p. 3«. Fourth Edition, • I82&.n'qUe C1,irurgicale do Montpellier, vol. («j Richeranu, Nongraphic Cl.irurgicale, vol. tv. p. 315. Fourth Edition, ISlo.712 TREATMENT OF SARCOMATOUS TUMOURS. have a doughy feel, and bear even a severe examination without paii Whilst the tumour is small, the skin covering it has its natural character but when it has reached a large size, the superficial veins swell considei ably, the skin becomes tight, inflames, and ulcerates. This ulceratio usually brings about a partial and sometimes total destruction of th swelling, and the effect on the constitution is consequently in general ver considerable. During the progress of sarcomatous tumours, various dis eased changes may occur in the mass of which they consist. According to microscopic examination, desmoid, sarcomatous, steatomatous, chondroi and fibroid swellings have been classed together as fibrous tumours, as in their perfw state they consist of fibres which interweave them in all directions, or are disposed wit a certain de°ree of regularity, sometimes without any other element, even without vessel* and sometimes only sparingly traversed by vessels. The fibrous structure is not alway distinct- in tumours of this kind, still in a state of development, there is often a formles mass, the blastema for fibres to be subsequently produced, or blackish cells. (Vogel.) 2283. The cause of these tumours is always previous inflammation, o at least an increased degree of vascular activity, which is produced eithe by external violence, or dyscrasic affections, especially scrofula and sy phiiis. In consequence of these processes, there is a deposition of plasti* exudation, into which vessels shoot, or the nutrition of any one organ i greatly increased, and on the continued deposit of an homogeneous sub stance, and great development of the vascular system the further growth of the swelling depends. 2284. The treatment may, at the commencement of these tumours prevent their growth by diminishing their unnatural vital activity, o: may effect their diminution, by repeated application of leeches, by con tinued cold bathing, purgatives, compression, and the like. If the swelling become larger, it must be removed by extirpation, or by tying the vascuiai trunks going to it, or it may be diminished by introducing a seton; under which last treatment it is destroyed partially by suppuration partially bj the inflammation which obliterates its nourishing vessels. Extirpation managed in the same way as the removal of encysted tumours. [The removal of these swellings by the knife is infinitely preferable to tbe jntrodnc tion of a seton or to tying the nourishing vessels, either of which is very tedw^ -, tiresome, and the latter often very offensive to the,patient from the sloughing » ensues, and very uncertain, as the vessels which afford the principal nutriment may too deep to be got at.—J. F. S.] XIV.—OF LARDACEOUS TUMOURS. (Stcatomatn, Lat.; Spcckrjeschwiilste-, Germ.; Ste'atomes, Fr.) Choj’Aht, Essaies sur les Loupes; in Prix de l’Acadcmie de Chirurgie, vol. iv. p. _ Gendrin, Mdmoircs sur les Caracteres anatomiques des Loupes de'signes sous e no de Lipome et de Steatome; in Journal ge'ue'ral de Mcdecine, 1828, vol. cm. p- -1 • Chelius, in Ileidelb. klin. Annalen, vol. iv. part iv. ^ Heyfelder, De Steatomate, Commentatio par loco in Senat. Acad. Erlang- obtinend. ... ^ 2285. Lardaceous Tumours are more or less large but firm s. -consisting of different, but generally globular masses, which contain 'u them in differently formed spaces, a whitish, tallowlike, more or lesS ^ substance, developed either in the cellular tissue beneath the skin, o interstitial tissue of an organ. , ^ Boyer (a), who, like many other writers, has under the name of ( 1 (n) Traite dcs Maladies Chirurgicales, vol. ii. p. 401. l’aris, 1822. Tliird Edition-LARDACEOUS TUMOURS. 713 ■ ; classed all circumscribed and painless swellings which are situated in the cellular tissue j beneath the skin, and formed of a more or less consistent substance, contained in a i proper sac, or in several spaces of the cellular tissue, distinguishes the wens which have ) a cyst into those formed of degenerated fat, which, deprived of its natural colour, ...i becomes white and hard, is contained in the expanded spaces of the cellular tissue, and i mixed with a greater or less quantity of lymph, ( Steatoma,) and into those, in which the f > fat retains its natural condition, and only acquires a greater degree of consistence r, {Lipoma.) But the substance of a steatome is not to be considered as merely degenerated 1 fat; it is distinguished, in addition to the difference of substance, by other relations of » its internal formation, and especially, as Boyer himself states, from fatty swellings, in that it exclusively possesses the ruinous peculiarity of degenerating into cancer. 2286. The external form of steatome is very various; although round, T it still exhibits different projections and irregularities ; its greatest extent is' in general immediately above its stem, which is commonly thinner, and v but rarely broader than the rest of the swelling. The tumour is heavy, does not yield to pressure, consists of several connected hillocky masses, in ii: the interspaces of which there is greater softness and yielding than on its top. The skin covering 'it is at first natural, movable, especially at its ,lneck, if the tumour be liable to dragging. At the neck of the swelling, Moftentimes one or several projecting cords are observed, which spread like roots beneath the skin ; and the latter, where corresponding to them, is •^ard, reddened, and ‘very tense. The growth of a steatome varies; ’in utgeneral it increases slowly, and at first its progress is accompanied with no -‘other inconvenience than that produced by the weight and dragging of the guswemng. ° 2287. As the growth of the tumour proceeds, the skin, earlier or later, : (reddens on the projecting parts, becomes tense, thinned and adhering! 1 Usually violent stabbing and burning pains attack the whole swelling I and spread into the neighbouring parts. The tumour at last bursts at ' fthis part, forms a dirty ulcer, from which a thin stinking ichor is dis- charged, together with the grayish remains of the steatome. The ulcer Spreads, and the same changes attack other parts of the swelling; often- times fungous growths spring from the ulcer, and frequent bleedings ’ ,ccur. The root-like cords on the neck of the steatome become harder; ‘ be neighbouring glands swell; the cancerous degeneration proceeds in | i directions, and the patient sinks under the continued violent pain of ;iectic consumption. 1 ' 228B. On examining a steatome, so long as the skin covering it is un- ! nTn n!d 1(leFenerati°n h,M IK)t yet begun, there is found beneath it, pretty thick layer of perfectly natural fat which penetrates the spaces ■ Cuemi S6VT ^ 6 SWelli"g- In this fa% ^s, there are . ; vel ly “ tumours, connected, however, with the principal u -welling. Beneath the layer of fat there is a pretty firm cellular > irrfin? thb tl,im0Ur- This cefiulo-fibrous capsule, I "o fillt Tfe lUIt" StrakS thT0Ugh the kyers of fat to the skin, is Iniurinr/it^tta.®he.d,to the steatome that it cannot be separated without Jd ti.° J’ 11 ,s.inks. (keply between the several parts of the swelling, ise either T8 th® tumours which, connected beneath each other, 1 Iteatomi^ JZ af paral]el direction, or disposed around the neck of the vren not T e[’ially ?°m 6ach 0ther‘ The tobes of the tumour, -irmLranTP y,bare °f celIular tissue and ftt, have considerable I rTSeve T,y th/ rej18tanCe 0f fibro-cartilage ; some of the lobes icallv T °ften SofJ and ela.stic- If the swelling be cut through ver- y’ ie Urination of the various cells or cavities by the.processes of the714 TREATMENT OF STEATOMA. cellulo-fibrous capsules, which are filled with the substance of the stea 4 tome, is perceived. This substance itself is firm, dull white like lard but jj§ firmer, and without vessels. At the neck of the steatome, more or les • c i numerous roots are seen penetrating to a certain depth, and exhibiting the if same characters as the tumour, that is, surrounded with cellule-fibrous- « membrane, which accompanies them to their origin, where is found a layer ■ of very vascular cellular substance, of a dull white colour and fibrous I nature, filled in part with steatomatous matter and yellowish fluid, and surrounded with a thick layer of fat. The roots oftentimes do not extend so deeply, and if the swelling be situated in a yielding part, they are, by the weight of the swelling, completely drawn into its neck. The often pretty large vessels penetrate through the midst of the roots into the 1 swelling, and spread in the walls of the smaller tumours; whilst other- ; vessels spread in the fat and skin surrounding the swelling. 2289. When degeneration and softening have already begun in the stea- tome, larger branches of vessels are observed in the walls of the swelling,, and in the yellow spots of the steatomatous substance ; at the same time,-, also, there is an infiltration of turbid, milk-like, and yellow fluid, which can be emptied by pressure. In the further progress of the softening, the substance filling the cells becomes jelly-like, the walls of the cells thicken, and are bluish-white, and the vessels distributed in them are very distinct. The softening is not alike in all the several swellings, and not even in one and the same swelling. When ulceration has began, the walls are tearable and bluish-white, and the substance contained in the cells is nothing but a grayish-white, dirty, semitransparent pap. The fat around the ulcer $ beneath the skin wastes ; there is observed a not deep but distinct scirrhous I or brain-like layer; the vascular injection in the cellulo-fatty tissue wastes to the extent of five or six lines, and the fat in equally considerable quan- tity retains its natural condition, but is mingled with more serosity (a). Heyfelder (b), from his microscopical examinations, has proposed four varieties of steatome; first, the true fibrous swelling merely consisting of stretched fibres, and - > of them alone; secoml, those of which the greatest part is made up of the stretched- fibres, but present also a cartilaginous and bony structure; they approach the chondroid tumours ; third, those containing stretched fibres and fat, and are intermediate to lijxnna and fibrous swellings; and, fourth, those which are composed of stretched fibres, cells and nuclei, and must be enumerated with malignant tumours (c). 2290. Steatomatous tumours are developed often without any known cause, and often in persons whose otherwise good health and appearance lead to no supposition of so considerable ailment of their formative life a* ‘ is shown in the progress of steatoma. Mechanical influences, as blows, pres- sure and the like, often cause it; though, probably, there is always a pre- vious disposition in the body thereto present. Of the several dyscrasies, the > scrofulous seems most frequently to encourage the growth of steatoma. 2291. The treatment of steatoma consists simply and solely in i removal with the knife, and the result of the operation is the more safe according as it is earlier performed, the more complete the removal of a degeneration dependent on the seat and condition of the tumour, and *j less the constitution is affected. When already a general reaction upon ' whole body appears, when softening and ulceration have set in, , prognosis is always doubtful, because after the operation the swelling quently is produced anew upon the scar or in some other part (1). (a) Gendris, above cited. 00 Compare the above with tie mite to far (b) Above cited. 2282.715 MEDULLARY FUNGUS. (6) Above cited, p. 345. In conducting the operation, the same rules given for the removal of s encysted tumours are applicable, with the special direction, that after ji the operation, the bottom of the wound is to be very closely examined, !: for the purpose of removing most carefully every infected part. It is Y always proper to establish an issue previous to the operation, and to keep : t it up after the wound has healed ; at the same time also, a suitable mode i of living and treatment, fitting to the existent general ill condition of the 1 health must be adopted. It is still to be remarked, as a peculiarity of o: steatomatous tissue, that it heals quickly when injured, in which case 14 numerous granulations form (a). (1) Boyer (6) supposes that cancerous degeneration of steatoma is so much more to n be feared, the larger the quantity of lymph contained in it. XV.—OF MEDULLARY FUNGUS. (Fungus medullaris, Lat.; Markschwamm, Germ.; Fongus mSdullaire, Fr.) Burns, John, Dissertations on Inflammation, vol. ii. p. 302. Glasgow, 1800. 8vo. Hey, William, Practical Observations on Surgery, with Cases, chapter vi. London 1803. First Edition. 8vo. . Freer, George, Observations on Aneurism, and some Diseases of the Arterial .in System. Birmingham, 1807. 4to. 1) ,'Ji 331 aa.- :«A >*3( XX 43/ nr.. .1 ( •HI > II 'Ii! «7i I/A i Abernethy, John, Surgical Works, vol. ii. London. Wardrop, James, Observations on Fungus hsematodes, or Soft Cancer, in several of Olathe most important organs of the Human Body. Edinburgh, 1809. 8vo. Laennec ; in Diet, des Sciences Medicales, Article Enceplialoides, vol. xii. p. 165. Breschet; in same, Article Hematode, vol. xx. p. 126. Meckee, Handbuch der patholog. Anatomie, vol. ii. part ii. p. 297. yMaunoir, Memoire sur les Fongus medullaire et he'matode. Paris et Geneve, 1820. Bartcky, Observatio singularis Fungi medullaris in Corde. Pnef. est Dzondi. j: .ial£D, 1821. ' V.0N Walther, Ueber Verhartung, Scirrhus, harten und weichen Krebs, Medullar- ^ir"lno?-UtSCl?Wamln’ATelea,U?lektasie und AneurJsma per anastomosiu ; in his Jour- ial fur Chirurgie und Augenheilkunde, vol. v. parts ii. and iv. Hasse, Dissertatio de Fungo medullari. Berol., 1824. Gunther, G. B-, Diss. Analecta ad Anatomiam Fungi medullaris. Lips., 1824. >artvLp’ 8lt"trUge ZUr Lehr€ V0" B1Ut" Und Markschwamm 5 in Horn’s Archiv, 1829, c^fHi»?S«‘^oY",rfp,STrk'“Sen d“ “ Hol. Untersuchungen iiber die Natur parasitischer Geschwiilste im menschliclien vorper, insbesondere uber den Mark- und Blutschwamm. Berlin 1808 ihe w «»%»»»*; m I WiLTB" MD. Th« »»! Treatment of Cancer. London. |iSrS.E?oBrT’ M D- I11“tratt”“ »f “*» Elementary Forme of Disease, j Muller, John, and Vogel, J., above cited. r z/292- Me<l“Uary Fungus (Soft Cancer of the older writers Svonaoul dfaSfTv i Fun9™ hcematodes. Hey and Ward.,op { Ence- x UKTUY McT/TEC ; H<zmat°dc Breschet ; Medullary Sarcoma, Aber- USLvJ aj ner’ lttAVER8i Cephaloma, Carswell; Fun- 3 an ?-°°FE^ I ^ncephaloid, or Soft Cancer, Walshe) inatural production, which begins as a little, defined, smooth and (a) Genduin, nbove cited.MEDULLARY FUNGUS. 716 even swelling, at first firm, though not hard, and over which the skin unchanged. As it enlarges the tumour becomes more elastic, and some times gives an illusive feel of fluctuation. The skin covering the swellin gradually becomes thinner, adheres to the tumour, and at last bursting, bloody ichor, escapes; through this hole in the destroyed skin a reddis fungous substance pushes up, continues increasing, and being girt by th round opening of the skin, the edges of which continue thick and unalterec a longish neck is-produced. This fungous growth bleeds on the slightes touch, and by the spontaneous tearing through of the numerous vessels j which pass to its surface, frequent bleedings are caused. Often pieces o ! the tumour are thrown off, and then exceedingly stinking grayish icho: escapes in large quantity. [Dr. Thomas Young (a) has included under his genus Carcinoma, or Cancer, “ai uneven tumour, with sharp lancinating pains, tending to ulceration;” two species “ C. scirrhosum, Hard Cancer, and C. spongiosum, spongy and readily bleeding Bleeding Cancer” (p. 346); the latter of which is the disease now to be treated of English writers have, however, generally, with the exception of Travers and'Cars well, and more recently Walshe, described and held them as different diseases. “ We may consider,” observes Travers, “ Carcinoma as a genus of the order ‘ malignant diseases.’ Its species are first the scirrhous, second the medullary. Tbeii respective modifications and varieties are to be referred to those of structure.’ (p. 200.) Carsweee says:—“ In the genus Carcinoma I propose to comprehend those diseases.' which have been termed scirrhous ; common vascular or organized sarcoma; pancreatic: mammary, and medullary sarcoma, and Fungus hcematodes. The following reasons may be assigned for thus grouping together, under the generic term of Carcinoma, so man) diseases generally described as differing widely from that which is commonly known by this designation :—First. They often present, in the early periods of their formation, cer- tain characters common to all of them, however much they may differ from each other in the subsequent periods. Secondly. They all terminate in the gradual destruction or transformation of the tissues which they affect. Third. They have all a tendency to affect several organs in the same individual. Fourth. They all possess, although in various degrees, the same reproductive 'character. Such are the more remarkable phe- nomena which, considered anatomically, and in a general point of view these diseases- present in common with one another. * * * More in detail. * * * They present differences, some of which are of considerable importance, others much less so. * * The differences to which I allude, are referable to two states of heterologous deposit, to which the diseases in question owe their origin. The first is that in which this deptw ' has little or no tendency to become organized. Its form and arrangement appear to tie determined chiefly by external circumstances; and its formation and subsequent liicreMei are entirely dependent on the nutritive function of the organ in which it is eontain • In the second state this deposit exhibits on the contrary a greater or less tendency io become organized. Although it may, at first, assume a determinate form and arrM^J* ment, in consequence of the influence of external circumstances, it possesses , 'j properties by means of which its subsequent arrangement and development are 3 ’ independent of the nutritive function of the organ in which it is formed, cxcep * far as the materials of its growth may be derived from this source. On account, toere- fore, of these two opposite states of the Heterologous Deposit, Carcinoma may be < . into two species, the first of which I shall call Scirrhoma, the second ( cpnalo ■ ^ * * * In these two species of carcinoma, the Heterologous Deposit presents i__ under various forms which may he regarded as so many varieties of each fpycies', __ varieties of scirrhoma are determined chiefly by the relati ve quantity of the Hctero og> Deposit, the manner in which it is distributed, and the difference of colour and cons's , ’’;h it presents. * * * The principal varieties of cephaloma (medullary derived from the appearances which the heterologous deposit present, ei pr At* of rliffnrnnf cf a true itc rl nvol rmm PTl t M HR tVlfi COTflttiOtl r QSCH ’ different organs or at different stages of its development, as the coranon 1 « „ Oraanized Sarcoma, of Abernethy ; Ins Mammary Sarcoma and Medullary (the latter being the Maticre Cerebriforme, or Enccphaloide, of Laennec; the p 9 . Inflammation of Burns; the MM-llkc Tumour of Dr. Monro; the Soft Cancer^ l«: („) An Introduction to I (23. 9vo. Second .Edition. to Medical Literature, including a System of Practical Nosology.MEDULLARY FUNGUS IN THE TESTICLE. r17 $ various authors; the Pulpy Testicle of Dr. Baillie) ; and Fungus hcematodes of Hey 11 and Wardrop, which is the Fungoid Disease of Asteey Cooper. Walshe’s views in respect to medullaryand scirrhus forming but one genus, rt; are much the same as Carswell’s, but they differ in regard to Colloid, or Jelly-like x Cancer, which Walshe holds as a distinct species, whilst Carswell considers it merely •) a variety of his scirrhoma. “ A single genus of formations represents,” says Walshe, (p “ the subdivision of Infiltrating Growthsthis genus is Cancer. It comprehends some 01 important species agreeing in essential characters, both as respects their natural simili- tude and their dissimilitude to Non-infiltrating Growths, (p. 4.) To our countryman, at the late Dr. Young, belongs in reality the merit of having been the first to unite scirrhus |j (Carcinoma scirrhosum) and encephaloid, {Carcinoma spongiosum,') as species of a genus, I L cancer or carcinoma ; but his example has been very slowly followed. English writers! with the exception of Mr. Travers, more keenly perceptive of the differences than of emthe analogies of these products, have almost to the present day continued to define cancer • - xs ulcerated scirrhus, and separate encephaloid completely therefrom, under the titles tffi&iof medullary sarcoma, fungus hcematodes, fungoid disease, &c. Nevertheless, opinion ad been silently undergoing a change among us; we had been gradually learning to ecogmse the practical truth and importance of Dr. Young’s nosological arrano-ement i when Dr. Carswell deprived us of all excuse for wavering by satisfactorily proving da te justness. But this is not all; the inquiries of Laenneg, followed by those of several , >f his contemporaries and successors, distinctly established the close alliance of another DGnorbid formation, originally described by that acute observer under the title of tissue uwv matiere colloide, to scirrhus and encephaloid.” Differences of opinion have been y;jield as to the relationship of these. “ I some few years past ventured,” says Walshe a-fi'to assign to colloid the rank of a species in juxtaposition with scirrhus and encenha- oid. t he additional experience I have since acquired, has still more fully convinced 1 line of the correctness of the views on which this arrangement was founded ” (nn 7 § \ ■ fence he divides Cancer, or Carcinoma, into the three species, ENCEPHALoirTor’soft •: -ancer; Scirrhus, or hard Cancer; and Colloid, or jelly-like Cancer (p. 10.)] 2293. So long as the swelling is small, it usually causes no incon- 'emences, but with its enlargement becomes more sensitive; sometimes a (Tiolent pain shoots through it, and in general when ulceration takes place 8 severe pain is produced. The neighbouring glands swell often to con- 4 lderable size.. Sometimes these glandular swellings occur when the (ifrigmal swelling is still small, and sometimes not, although it be very ; arge; they appear also in parts which have no immediate connexion by Means of the absorbents with the originally diseased part. The fungous ■ ructure appears only to be found in the original tumour. In mortTad- ■ anced stages of the disease, the powers are depressed by the often recur- ring bleedings, and the copious flow of ichor, and at last the patient sinks ■ m the.colhquative symptoms. The continuance of the disease is un- I! however, usually proceeds more quickly than cancer. I . y , .lh,f disease may occur in every organ of our body ; it has been Ji served in the ball of the eye, on the limbs, in the female^reast on the •rolid, on the thyroid gland, on the testicle and the ovary ; in the liver in?Jhm«S’in I’eart. inthe mL’oi" bats and ln 1 ‘‘ ^,n. *iese different seats of the disease the symptoms differ Jie de°r I™’ WhlC5 eSpecial,7 aPplies t0 the eye-ball. Oft heather eases h“ “ ““ — >0“ « 2295 land^itseT me(Iullary funV™ begins either with swelling of the thumi an oval nr ? a FI?' in C?nse(P,ence op which the testicle '>sticTnn^ • / / ro,inded form> and it is difficult to distinguish the observed iTtW^ fV°rmf,each ot.hfr- Neither irregularity nor change 1 general nrpnt l T+T -the !®stlcIe > the hardness, however, is at first general great, but the nn in un ti , , . y aiwideralil^T/’l *Hlt tIie tlddi,n§’‘ When the tumour has increased aerably, it becomes softer, and the feel of its containing fluid is ex-MEDULLARY FUNGUS OF BONE. 718 ceedingly delusive. In its subsequent course the swelling is at some pai hard, and at other parts very soft, as if it would soon burst. The vei of the scrotum swell, and the skin becomes discoloured. The glands s the groin on the affected side, or upon both sides, swell up, and the tumo proceeds along the spermatic cord into the belly. The reaction of til disease upon the general condition of the patient is so great that dea may ensue even before the ulceration and protrusion of the fungus. I have seen a case, in which a puncture having been made into a medullary funi of the testicle by another Surgeon, with the object of performing the palliative cure t hydrocele, although the puncture remained open till I subsequently performed tion, and bloody ichor continued flowing, yet no fungus appeared. Upon medullary fungus of the testicle, may be consulted— Gierl, M., Ueber den Fungus, die Struma Testiculi, u. s. w.; in Neue Chirr vol. i. p. 273. Cooper, Astley, Observations on the Structure and Diseases of the Testis, p. 1: London, 1830. 4to. Hertzberg, Ueber Schwamm des Hodens; in von Graefe und von Walthep Journal, vol. xiv. p. 283. Baring, Ueber Markschwamm des Hodens. Gottingen, 1833. Curling, Blizard, A Practical Treatise on the Diseases of the Testis, &c., p. 3; London, 1843. 8vo. 2296. All the bones may be attacked with medullary fungus, whit may originate either between the external surface of the bone and tli periosteum, or in the interior of the bone (1). In the former case the i appears a small, hard, and generally painless tumour beneath the perk teum, which softens as it increases, displaces the parts, intereferes wi or destroys the functions of the limb to various degrees, becomes painft and may grow to an enormous size. I have seen two cases in which tl: swelling occupied the whole thigh-bone, the periosteum was raised five •. i six inches, but the surface of the bone was little changed. T he bone ; however, frequently, and especially about the circumference of the svvel \ ing, beset with many fine needles or plates, which spring like rays frop| the surface of the bone, and penetrate into the interior of the swelUnjj If the fungus be developed in the interior of the bone, it not merely hi I up its tube, but renders the bony tissue atrophic, so that it is merely su-1 rounded by a thin shell of bone, which is ultimately burst through; sue. bones, therefore, break on the slightest injury.—(Muller.) [ (1) Medullary fungus of bone lias been well described by Astley Cooper (<A 1 a species of exostosis, under the name, according to its beginning in one or ot P“J of the bone, of Fungous Exostosis of the Medullary Membrane and Fungous p Exostosis.] 2297. The examination of the tumour after death, or after its remova j presents different results, according to the degree of its development. ] the interior there is found a soft substance, which is often scarcely dwcerni ibly divided into larger and smaller lobes by fine cellular tissue, nornf geneous, milk-white, at some parts usually a little reddish, resembling^J medullary substance of the brain, and when cut into thin layers, se ^ transparent. Its consistance is similar to that of the human brain tissue, however, is generally little connected, and it easily breaksjj the fingers. In proportion as the substance is more or less loosen ^ it exhibits more or less resemblance to certain parts of the brain; hu (a) In his and Travers's Surgical Essays, part i. p. 179, and p. 194. Third Edition.719 CHEMICAL COMPOSITION OF MEDULLARY FUNGUS. I commonly it has the nearest resemblance to the somewhat softened brain of a child. On the surface of this substance run a quantity of blood- vessels, the trunks of which spread upon the surface and in the depres- sions of the swelling, and the branches penetrate into its substance. If the tumour be examined in an advanced state, when it has already attained i tolerable size, its substance has a very different appearance at different parts. It sometimes resembles pus, and is of a whitish or reddish- white colour; in consequence of the outpouring of blood and a greater levelopment of the vessels, certain parts have often a dusky-red colour, nid appear like lumps of clotted blood. Sometimes the substance is so nixed with blood that it has no longer any resemblance to brain, but has 1 reddish, blackish colour, and has the consistence of partially-dried and :earable dough. Some pieces are often dusky yellow, and resemble yolk >f egg in consistence and colour. In general, however, certain parts till retain their brain-like character. Some firm cartilaginous, and even )ony spots, are often observed in the substance ; and the latter is especially mticed when the disease occurs in the eyeball. J The chemical examination of of the brain-like substance shews that it consists of Ibumen, fatty matter, osmazome, lime, magnesia, phosphate of potash, sulphur, and nosphorus, and consequently, as regards its elementary parts, it is similar to the sub- thje brain.—(Maunoir, Bartcky.) According to Brande’s (a) statement, the . “'f. 1 element of medullary fungus is a peculiar fibrous matter, partly insoluble L °flc a?ltL , The fat which the jungus contains, cannot be converted into soap, and pntains phosphorus, like the fat of the brain. P W $;i0Zillg 'S the auaIyS1S of the braiVlike substance of medullary fungus given Albumen White fatty matter Red fatty matter Osmazome Fibrin . Water . . Oxide of iron . 47,00 7.50 5.35 4.00 6.50 8.00 1.35 Subphosphate of lime . , [soda Carbonates of ! lime . . (magnesia . Hydrochlorates of | PQjaSSa Tartrate of soda 6,30 2,75 4.00 1.00 2,70 2,00 0,35 /° Hfrc'IT.(c)> gelatm is found in this substance, though less in quantity eeektfn *)Ut lts proportions vary in different stages of medullaryfuiwul liht It wo ng I" ®re.a.ter quantity than the albumen in the first, or stage of crudity ■ f'iK »■ lull’r Sue (Pp!°5n)] appearauce of the he attributed to the addition of some e- Tn^S whfti*jk°Un t, I” the m,e(\uHalT matter, in addition to an unnaturally loose or I S 7t} S ^hstanee and branching vessels, a quantity of round amlVvTcor- ti-emb’ling pus-globules1\ter’ 0Paf]ue-wbite, transparent at their edge, uneven | a line in diameter. ’ & S°’ smallcr> smooth> clear globules, from jfoth to BJDth I n of T disea^Sd h!to thS “ n° peCuliar tissue, but merely an infiltra- altered Th’ T5 T“ge> * which '«'* dfateffll . . m?st vanous forms. The white fluid squeezed out presents, when I fe?tsr ^“5 vs . j ^,^LE,f,l,Tra*tc d’Anatomle Patholosrinnp ^natomiscl> - mikroscopisclio Untersnch- • P-4oG. Paris. 1H20 ° 3 e> ungen zur allgem. undspeciell Pnthologie,part i.- ix. Leipzig, 1839.720 CHEMICAL COMPOSITION OF MEDULLARY FUNGUS. nowhere spots like pus-globules, and are much larger, being ^th of a millimetre i * diameter, whilst the pus-globules are only T^th. About two-thirds of the medullar substances are made up of these corpuscles. When the fungus becomes larger, then , are still distinguished a quantity of large irregular particles, which all have dusk and pale lines; perhaps here, instead of corpuscles, only irregular bodies and fibrou matter have been capable of being formed, differing according to the organ affectecJ The greater the quantity of medullary corpuscles and medullary substance deposite e in the fungus, the greater is its softness, even to fluidity; and then occurs the illusiv feel of fluctuation, which can only be distinguished from that of pus, in that the cob;, lections of the latter are isolated, whilst the medullary corpuscles are infiltrated betwee i the several primitive fibres. If, however, but little medullary fluid be depositee - the tissue retains its ordinary hardness and consistence. A very remarkable circum stance is the presence of medullary corpuscles in the entire substance of an orgai where only some small fungi, or even none at all, exist, whilst they are present i other parts of the same individual. The medullary substance operates destructively just like gangrene, upon the tissue in which it is collected, if it have affected it lonr enough. The fibres of the organ retain their usual direction, but in small fungi ar separated by close-lying particles, and when more advanced, fibres can no longer b • traced. In all these forms of fungus, there are numerous rhomboidal crystals of ^th of a millimetre, mean diameter, commonly in groups, but in quite fresh fungus they ar. scattered, on which account they must be sought for. In the development of inflammation, the whole swelling, or part of it, distended wit. blood presents newly-developed thick nets of capillary vessels, and the medullary cor. puscles are mixed with compound corpuscles. Fibrous matter may also be close!;, deposited in the fungus, and so give it the appearance of a scirrhous degeneration Concentrated sulphuric acid dissolves the medullary corpuscles in part, and then remain only little dusky bodies; in like manner hydrochloric acid exhibits a flocky granular substance. Alcohol coagulates the medullary fluid, and the medullary cor puscles, like those of pus, become still more distinct, without changing their shape. Aceti acid dissolves the medullary corpuscles but very slowly, which is done much mor ouicklv in pus-corpuscles. The crystals dissolve in sulphuric so completely as to leav. a sediment; whilst in nitric and hydrochloric acid, on the contrary, they do not dissolv dt The medullary substance exists also in the fluids of the human body. Gujot> observed in one case, in the blood-clot of the right iliac vein, an undoubted medullary mass; the walls of the vein were healthy, and led to no diseased organ. ,* eS 1 L i ni rta aw ni to MS rtX li a hi (S£ 2298. The tumour presses the neighbouring parts together, the muscle are often completely enclosed in the substance, and as it were marbles with it. The whole mass is surrounded with a cellular investment more or less distinct, according as it is developed in an organ, of which the cellular tissue is of a tougher or more yielding nature. The externa form is in these cases generally round, sometimes flattened, egg-shapea* sometimes quite irregular, and its external surface divided into lobes, whicn are separated by more or less deep furrows. Laennec, as also Ckuvk; ■ hier,. found the brain-like substance contained in cysts, of which the wai- were pretty even, scarcely more than half a line thick, of a grayish w 1 silvery or milk-white colour, and semi-transparent, in their structure resembling cartilage, and so firmly connected with the brain-like mass, they could not be easily separated. . , ,anrf 2299. In medullary Fungus of the Testicle, the brain-like substance has crenerally a pale-brownish or reddish colour; oftentimes the w testicle is converted into a mass of this kind. Often this mass const many parts, very different from each other in reference to their tissu®’ separated by thin membranous partitions from each other: some po , 2eSt, otlL hard, and some actually bonju If this substance be r in water, a soft cellular tissue remains. 1 he partitions are g J united to the tunica albuginea; but sometimes they are separafe, the interspace is filled with water. In the bones, the swelling mosCHARACTERS OF MEDULLARY FUNGUS. 721 . r nionlyhas a white brain-like nature; all the above-mentioned varieties, how- ■>ever, occur. Bone and periosteum are as above mentioned, {par. 2296.) 2300. The following are the characters of medullary fungus. The ■ » swelling is soft, elastic, and both during life and after death, yields a i delusive fluctuation to the touch; destruction at one part of the skin •f covering it, through which sprouts a fungus, loose, but little painful when :.f touched, and bleeding readily ; the edges of the skin encircling the neck ■ of the swelling often remain a long while in their natural condition, with- out thinning, or undergoing any other change ; neither do the considerable iB discharge of ichor nor the throwing off of portions of the fungous Growth 1 pr°dace any diminution; on the contrary, the swelling continues increasing i- and thrusts the surrounding parts asunder, without infecting them with its own peculiar diseased metamorphosis; they are only altered by the con- tinued pressing together which the swelling effects upon them. This nr lisease especially occurs in the earlier periods of life. 230L The diseased substance contained in the tumour differs so much T f. dlfferent periodsi of the disease, that a definition which shall include all ftages of its development is impossible. It may be whitish, reddish i rownish, and even black ; its consistence may vary equally, which •f depends on more or less of the cruoric or albuminous elements of the blood 1 h?coSS d' i °l , ies\different re]ations of the leased substance rest I rtt T’71 iaVe bf0 put forward as different degenerations, and I TLd?rT c esiS'mtl0ns, though alone depending on the different stages IssL CV pme ’ 0r 0n the Peculiarity of the organ in which it has designations applied to this disease, all of which are taken from different Spriate Ind sWnn’ T P"ef67;ed Medullary Fungus (Markschwamm) as mos nn2ir,d ?Pec,ally as thereby all confusion with the bl'ood-/u«(/«s, produced bv nnatuml distension of the capillary-vascular system, (par. 1507.) is avoided Y eduUare irTthat fn thSI* a dldfrenc,e between fungus hccmatodes and sarcoma lantitv nf moi!’ the former, the substance of the swelling is penetrated bv a 'nsistence e,mb.ra"oas bands> whilst in the latter it is of an homogeneous medullary r, hr ■ c?’,and Slmdar t0 the cortical substance of the brain. In the former if thU 7 tter bert!euPTaSSibie washed awa>’’the membranous partitions still remain ; but if the snS ln 11 te,manT\er-lts eapsule only, and a number offlocculi hanging from S voSt ’ a.re l6^ } haye “over found these distinctions in my examinatfons UullZtZthe dTffeIe°nceUnf U a fT"06 between/«^«® hcematodes and sarcoma assumes thathe substances composing the swelling, from which e suh^nV . nf i^rl1 oth(‘r respects the nature of both tumours is alike and e lenn-tp i f ,both al,ke consists of cellular tissue and vessels some of vJwi, 4 wric8elemeiaud/0rne ?ewIy P,roduced> fet that the blood is deposited rather in £ I inthe of medullary sarcoT^ngus I ■'latter, although the two > .0,mer, he does not make the least allusion to f "hich had burst miHledIvir61?8!!11 dlu,st!'at,°n are both medullary fungus, one ' skm ulcerated Rut he S ‘ d^th! “d ln, the otber the patient died before 1 ab"g the case of a irl wt wf y Fe[Cr to Hey’s fungus hannatodes in charged a little scrum hnt„ • ‘ ! a °? ber arm, which he punctured, and n ne away, and severe the finger, some strata of coagulated blood 3 U Sevtre heeding ensued, which could not be stopped, and the Anatom li V'OL. ij. y of the Head and Neek, (6) First Lines of Surgery, Edition. arm p. 358. Seventh 3 ACHARACTERS OF MEDULLARY FUNGUS 722 (o) Above cited, p. 21. 4 was obliged to be amputated ; in doing which, however, part of the cyst was left behmc which thrust forth a fungus, and the girl died. Abkrnethy remarksAn unre I strainable haemorrhagic tendency seems to be the essential character of that diseasu * which Mr. Hey has denominated Hcematodes. That it takes place from disease- structures is manifest; yet 1 have known it happen without any morbid growth havinj preceded it.” He then observes, that “ the term fungus hcematodes seems to be a nam t commonly now applied to every bleeding fungus, whilst that bmmatodal disposition which Mr. Hey has described, is very rare;” and concludes by giving a case exempli fvino- Hey’s views, which is evidently a case of medullary fungus, in which, accordm; to WALTHEE’s opinion, the cruoric part of the blood was that deposited forming/^ hcematodes (P- 125-27.) Abeknethy had either a very confused notion of these tw fo^s of the same disease, or, like many other authors, did not like to disturb or inter cilate the classification of tumours which he had made.—J. F. s.J _ ‘ The most decided difference between the two diseases is, that in sarcoma medullar after the part has broken, the place heals till another similar tumour bursts through the skin ^whilst on the contrary in fungus hcematodes, the fungus grows larger anijl largernever diminishes by being thrown off, nor is there ever any attempt at a curativ process I ^“frequently noticed this distinction in the progress of the disease, bu have not been able to determine how far it has been actual or only accidental, accordinj telh"diSi of the organ .treated; at for example, in the test.cle there ts semel; ' •»«*«*« 0ff C““ (soft Cancer,') considers it most correct to employ the name medullary a collective designation of the different forms of soft cancer which run into each otto and hence from his own observation he enumerates the following r-Fir^Carcfig medullare with formation of medullary substance composed of roundish for rtseS S, greater tpra.ti.y than the delicmte 8b= .. rn»ti M the tumour These are the corpuscles seen by Gluge (par. > ln j ... and a half as large as the blood corpuscles, and of SSSJS £ve some medullare, with tailed or spindle-shaped corpuscles times, when broken, a sort of fibrous aPPear“f> j;Xm^v^SSes, somW flisnosed Tliev are-sometimes scattered among othei formative corpmcies, formation, sometimes of a custeredarrangementbuatoth^ times their js „ various, that the swelling when broken exhibits no to s. r are mam criterion of the malignity of a tumour m tin= tailed. “r^scl^ «her^ J- . benignant, albuminous sarcomata with tailed coipuscles, and y the embryon consist of tailed corpuscles. t1 ;n the different parti According to Vogel, the essential element of medulla y f g escape of the body is a cell, doubtless developed from a formless <*• ’oun(jish tailed observation^ The ceils have very different forms W* size, sometimes very largely branching, like the pigmen i , , »ranv ^Hs contaii all these cells present'"a nucleus with or without a iwhich contai. very numerous cell-nuclei; not nnfiequently . g cd\-nuclei seem fir*1 ,l one or more little ones (mother cells with daughter cells ) l he cut « som arise from the cells. Very frequently there are nude without wvetung ? Th single, some collected in packets ; but very rarely are the cells dt'° fe or a simil» celfs of one and the same medullary fungus ordinarily present ***«“ . visible con character. Sometimes the cells, free from all foreign parts, w ithout any necting medium, are closely locked together and form the wholetumou. ^ th a fibrous basal tissue (stroma) between the cells, and when tl fillc medullary Ss runs into scirrhus/ When complicated with miosis, th^^ j, •,i. black pigment plunge among the medullary fungus cells. I ' j10Ut; if onl; with blacK pigmc v b t,.“mpdlll,arv funaus appears gray throughout- black pigment plunge among tne meuunary junyns * -hout. ifoih. SWIn^rcg^rd'toktHc socallad .Ha opinioas of BaaohhV and »» " is n0'1,i“s “lhe dis’“5i0° ‘723 AND OF MELANOSIS. (aneunjsme veneux.) At first, whilst the blood in the aneurysmal sac is still fl„ui opening the tumour and obliteration of the vessel suffice for the cure ; in this c^ the’ aneurysma sac is still healthy. But if the blood be clotted, the sac becomes d M anZr}lTa! 7 iS StiJ? healthy- Butif th“; bl^ be dotted’ the sac6 becomes diseased E“E 0bSerTCd “™»icadd4eS w ram. Pott’s Aneurysm ? " ■' & Jaeger (6) holds that blood/«)iy«s consists of larger or smaller, thin and thick : | skinned cells, penetrated with delicate streams of blood or actual vessels md • k > a more or less distinct mucous membrane. In theseVeils is^contafne 1 I ’nrhich is clotted, some thinly fluid, and some decomnosed ,, blood< some of » a»d the »w, swelling oftei con S ofZ ClSoVhTon?"*?!!? I amour enher lies loose in the cellolar tissue, or is surrounded «ohoi"hei,,IS or very vascular cyst, in the covering-of which the r.,,iini„,. ,• • tl|1 a tough, fibrous, ' trace of lard-like or brain-like substance is discoverable. Between some of three1!!1" i ss stesr-found- s“8,e - «'Zsszsz ss S J.r8teSridm bl”d-/«»J« as morel, a complication of medullary fmg„ witU 2302. As in scirrhus, the tissue forming the swelling Its,.. ft depending on the different proportions of the ibrons an n lFh? ^ stance, so that in this respect, ttvi extremelybepeSLltl „? ^f5S£S££S=555 ' 1 altered secretion, therefore also doeJ the bE T?"1®’ but me^Y * ace of organization and imv ho nh-0. i7 substarfce present no ^ "fferent kinds Tbio , L ohseived alone, or in tumours of ' lament and constitution ”0^^ T^T dePends on difference of tem- ’ the kidneys, lungs, skin’ andthe lik-® vf8^. °f,the b]ood in diseases b dogiston is preven r 1? • k ’ *hereby the throwing off of the •he symptoms noticed’in JeZoSsTem Carbon caused- : ^stances which exist with Ct dkS, J° ar*e from other cir- r instance, from chronie inflammoti™ f *’7 fl’°™ the disease itself; unnatural formations as medulhrv f rom tlie simultaneous presence I e mechanical irritation and pressure 777’ tubercIes’ or from II According to this vn-icre J .1 ot the deposited substance. Urf> and influence upon the of ™elanosis its different 1 “c 1 are apparent from micrnl" , aS .als0 tIie different results 1 'a Iong time without any effect unon thfh^Bi011' 11 s.ometimes exist3 , a) Diet 7 1 P 1 health 5 sometimes the powers • ’ vo1’ «• p. W3nCeS M6dicale3> art‘cle Mma- (V) Schaffneb, F. A., Ueber den waliren Blut- sch" amm, erne inaugural Abhandl. Wiirzb 1834 3 a 2724 DIAGNOSIS BETWEEN MEDULLARY FUNGUS soon sink ; sometimes it continues till the melanosis runs on to an ope- ulcer; then from the clefts and fissures of the broken-up swelling ! escapes a black fluid, and mixed with pus wlien the neighbouring par. $ have been destroyed. These openings sometimes heal, sometimes brea-™ out again, and run on to destructive sloughing and the like. Upon the subject of Melanosis, the following writers may be coi suited :— Bayle, Recherclies sur la Phtliisie pulmonaire, Obs. xx. xxi. Paris, 1810. Laennec ; in Journal de Medecine, par Corvisart, &c., vol. ix. p. 368. Merat; in Diet, des Sciences Medicates, Article Melanose, vol. xxxii. p. 183. 18bH Cazenave ; in Diet, de Medec., Article Melanose, vol. xix. p. 324. 1839. Breschet, Considerations sur une alteration organique appele'e Degeneration noil . Melanose, Cancer melane, etc. Paris, 1821. Heusinger, C. F.,’Untersuchmigen iiber die anomalen Kohlen-und Pigment-Bildun.:^ Eisenach, 1823. von Walther, above cited, p. 567. Noack, C. A., De Melanose cum in hominibus turn in eqpis obveniente. Lips.; wi< 5 three copper plates. Cullen, Will., and Carswell, R., M.D., On Melanosis; in Medico-Chirun* Trans, of Edinburgh, vol. i. p. 264. 1821. Fawdincton, Thomas, A Case of Melanosis, with general Observations on the Pat | ology of this interesting disease. London, 1826 ; with a plate. Schilling, E.. Dissert, de Melanosi. fol. Francof., 1831. . M Carswell, Robert, M.D., Illustrations of the Elementary Forms of Disease, iv. Melanoma. London, 1834- Vogel, above cited. 2304. If the above-mentioned appearances of medullary fungus \ \ compared with the internal condition of scirrhus, the following di> tinguishing characters may be observed. The tissue of scirrhus, must not be confounded with induration, equally at its onset forms firm, incompressible substance, which when cut into thin layers, is senM transparent, has the consistence of cartilage and fibro-cartilage, even that of lard, with which it agrees in appearance, and is composed ott* different substances ; the one hard and fibrous, the other soft, am inorganic appearance. The fibrous part forms various partitions ax- cavities without arrangement, in which is contained the softc - ( ordinarily of a pale brownish, sometimes bluish greenish, wtat* reddish colour, similar to hardened albumen: the fibrous part has times a cartilaginous hardness. But especially are the proportion these substances very different. Sometimes the fibrous substance f the nucleus, from which the partitions spread in every direction and, ^ cut through, presents a radiated appearance. Oftentimes the swell g an uniform hardness, in which no distinct tissue can be traced. ^„tl times encysted tumours form in the scirrhus, filled with ditt ^ coloured fluids. Ulceration always begins in these t™SKuher fro’ cessively severe stabbing, lancinating, burning pain, extending e . . _ t.ritlnn nnfwnn c nnfl flPP.OITlD8.DlGd ltn 8 3 I * . a \725 tl) Above cited, p. 51. AND SCIRRHUS. after having previously passed into a scirrhous state. Cancer is the especial peculiarity of advanced age, and most commonly occurs at the critical periods of life, when the capability of production declines. It may other- wise be primarily developed from any scirrhus, or from any ulcer, if its bottom have passed into a scirrhous condition. A resemblance between medullary fungus and cancer can alone be drawn from the following circumstances.: in both diseases, when ulceration has taken place a thin filthy-smelling ichor is secreted; in cancer there are often fungous growths ; both are m a high degree destructive, spread in all directions, are frequently accompanied with bleeding, commonly appear in different organs in the same individual, at the same time and rarely heal. But in medullary fungus it is always characteristic that it spread only by growth, and compress the parts, but not as cancer, which, by its extension, draws the parts into the same degeneration. I cannot therefore, in this respect, agree with John iIuller (a), when he states that medullary fungus with tailed corpuscles can be distinguished from the benignant corresponding sarcoma, for this only admits the distinction of the tissue formation in the affected organs or their neighbourhood di^St dSeS2^h0fhke m°1 Fm!iCh W,'iterS’ aPPlies the term Carcinoma to a Jegenerahon from scirrhus and cancer, points out four different kinds ; first i encePJ‘aloide ou cerebriforme; second, Carcinome melane ; third, Carcinoma I Sf;h chd iti C'arclno™e Nematode. If the description be compared with the ™ -7 e, glv.en from examination of medullary furious in its several f ^?es’ nt ?annot be otherwise considered than that these kinds of carcinoma are merelv I to^eeusSjroSdefofer10Pm!nt °! medullary fungus; nor to think that it is contraiy I than the nnclo ^ r f• LXPref10n; t0 P01nt out with carcinoma another state of disease7 >. than the passage of scirrhus by ulceration into open cancer. uisease, l wiSEmedullnl^dS that A.bernethy’s sarcoma tuberculatum probably agrees entirely I ?mTfary/T'i As;thls 0P'nion is not supported by any positive ground! nC°T• tuber^tum’ so I think I can the less ag/ee with itf as the m/unaL Sw'Ch S#t;m W,'th that dlse£U!e do not accord with those given to medullary ii: merationof according to Abernethy (rf), consists of an aggl0! mi cellular cnhct undish tumours of different size and colour, connected together bv T\eir Slz.e varies from that of a pea to that of a horseWand . the disease onfv ,?n th S ,br0W,nl.s.h ™ d> and m. mauy yellowish. Abernethy had seen ^■iant ]ymPhatic glands of the neck. It runs on to ulceration nnlio- ’atm doefnoTin thns dea*- From this description sarcoma tubercu- |§ be taken for » r gree w,th medullary/an^iw, and it seems rather that it must d incurable soreT degeneratl0n> at least ^ passed into ulceraTon <fo s known f^0!0^ of. medullary fungus, nothing decisive if -emoto o' 1 ?ases the dlsease is developed without any perceptible ■ „ !’■ and “ 18 usuaI|y f0lmJ confined one spot! but pSrt EiuS‘‘T .f ,era’?r«ans- aach circumstances thefS «c-Xw 1,1 fhlblts disease , the ski,, is of a ureenLl,! proufcmeC,°verSd. " II1! ,a clammy sweat, there is constant htenemTaSeeZfan bfoe cli , T8’ “d the Iike' If decided >■ ’e mistaken which is h /' V 8tl dime is a peculiar diathesis nut !o il Sometimes an external m i .^lstm^llshed as the diathesis fungosa. * rid although it be nuickTy dov^ 1,aflu®nceuis the. ca»se of this disease, I influence unon tho or . J cvej°Ve(^ under these circumstances, yet is its Pffecfions Tcrofiik Z T Ie8B‘ Ifc is Suite undecided whit general origin of this disease^ ISm’ ^°Ut’ ancl the like, contribute to ' n every o^n.0 Its may be developed - essels and veo-'etativo no m t l6 Ce /u ar tissue> in which the capillary ft essels are numerous rves are spread. In the cellular tissue, where the mf numerous, new vessels are formed, the tissue itself loosens m («) Above cited, p. 27. V1) Above cited. . Above cited, p. 207.SOFT POLYPS. 726 up, effusion takes place, which, according as the albuminous or cruoric par of the blood prevails, exhibits, in various proportions, the white, brain-like., gray, or reddish, brownish, even blackish colour, or all these together. 2306. Art can do little against medullary fungus. The strongest escharotics are unable to restrict its growth. The only remedy which dis-. covers the possibility of cure is the early, complete removal of the part, 01 the amputation of the limb on which it is seated, and the employment of such remedies as may improve the constitution. This practice, how- ever, is but in the rarest cases crowned with success, as the disease either recurs in its original seat or in some other organ, and makes quick progress. The time when it reappears is various ; sometimes the fungous mass quickly shoots forth from the operation wound; sometimes during the first stage of scarring; at other times after the wound has been some time healed. 1 XVI.—OF POLYPS. (Polypi, Lat.; Polypen, Germ.; Polypes, Fr.) 2307. Polyps are unnatural growths arising from the surface of mucous membranes, and in reference to their nature, form, size, and mode oi production, very different from each other. They are commonly divided into Soft Polyps ( Schleim-Blasen-Poly pen. Germ.; Polypes mous, risicu- leux ou muqueuses, Fr.) and Hard Polyps (Fleiscli-Polypen, fibrose Polypen, Germ.; Polypes durs, charnus oufibrcux, Fr.) 2308. The Soft Polyp consists of an homogeneous soft tissue, containing in its cells a mucous fluid which escapes when squeezed, and thus may bet) very much diminished in size, leaving only a slimy skin remaining. Iis surface is covered with a very thin process of the mucous membrane lining the cavity in which it is developed, and so intimately connected with die polyp itself as not to be separable from it; some minute vessels and nerves^ are spread upon its surface, but very few of either are found in its interior.a its colour is grayish white, or yellowish; it is commonly attached by% stem ; its form varies and depends on that of the cavity in which it is developed ; it in general grows quickly, enlarges in a moist, and diminishes< in a dry atmosphere. Usually several of them exist at the same time,a but cause no other inconvenience than blocking up the canal in which t eji have been formed. 2309. The Hard Polyps have a more or less red or bluish appcaranc according to the quantity of blood-vessels branching in them, an ‘ covered with a shining skin, which is tolerably firm. The arteries a run in the middle of the stem and of the polyp itself, whilst the veinsi Wj superficial. Their surface is either smooth or furrowed, and cleft, w 1 doubtless depends on the rending of the enclosing skin. Their lntenD? consists sometimes of an homogeneous, fleshlike, very vascular substaflpqp in which case it is called a Fleshy Polyp (Fleiscli-Polyp, Germ.); 80 times of a very thick cellular tissue divided into lobes by fibrous j and hence it is named a Fibrous Polyp (fibrose Polyp, Germ.) base of the polyp is usually narrow, and its form bean-shaped ; some it is attached at a single point, and sometimes has several roots, ant are not always superficially connected with the mucous membra" often penetrate deeply into its substance. These polyps grow slov, >, ^ form depends little on that of the cavity in which they are conta ,HARD POLYPS. 727 bony walls of which they often burst asunder by their pressure, in conse- quence of which, the polyp itself is often torn, ulcerates and adheres at different points. In consequence of the strangulation which the polyp undergoes, the blood collects in it, and it becomes bluish; by the tearing of the vessels considerable bleeding ensues; it sometimes inflames, ulcer- ates, becomes gangrenous, and throws off its lobes ; sometimes it is painful, at other times not so. 2310. This division of polyps does not indicate all the differences which they present. Oftentimes the polyp remains in the same state a long while, and is restricted to the same size; sometimes it grows quickly ; but at other times this only happens in consequence of some accidental irritation. In consequence of such irritation, various changes are set up in its tissue, i and may run on to scirrhous degeneration. There is then considerable ! hardness, the tissue becomes lard-like; severe lancinating pains occur ; a lb stinking ichorous fluid continually flows from it; it bleeds on the slightest i touch, and grows excessively quick. The degeneration of a polyp into i cartilage, has been, although rarely, observed. In other respects, the K; tissue of one and the same polyp is every where the same. 2311. The symptoms specially produced by polyps are different accord- 1 ing to their nature, size, and seat. At first the polyp is painless, and the fi-annoyances from it depend on the pressure which the walls of the cavity t and the neighbouring parts suffer from it; as it enlarges both the hard * and soft parts by which it is surrounded are burst asunder, the bones thin, mbecome fragile, and at some parts are, as well as the soft parts, completely v-’destroyed.. If the polyp be painful, it appears to be the result of incipient ^degeneration. The then always increasing, continual pain, the frequent fcfbleedings, and the destruction of the neighbouring parts, lead on to death .'(from exhaustion, or it results from the pressure made upon important -sjoarts. The harder the polyp, the more is cancerous degeneration to be I feared. Soft are much less dangerous than hard polyps, and so long as hey retain their cellular structure, no inflammation or degeneration !: 'eadily takes place in them. k I have frequently noticed medullary^/angi/s of mucous membranes, in form of gray- 1 ur or retltl's1' excrescences, without any symptom indicating the great danger of » nat disease. After removal, the excreseuces soon came again, and caused death, by the 1 oent!10110" °f tllG neiSlll)ouring parts, in consequence of their unrestrainable enlarge- I 2312- The proximate cause of polyps is an alteration of the vegetative processes depending on continued irritation of the mucous membrane, ■producing these new and peculiar formations, which are either developed i trom the parenchyma, or from the deeper tissues which the mucous mem- Mrane overspreads, and are thereby distinguished from the mere swelling H,l !e membrane, which has the same tissue as the membrane, ln, Hyps there js nothing resembling it. In mucous polyps, the S.. Ura ormation is confined simply to the mucous parenchyma of the m r°fl\ ,ra,10’1 *rom which any participation of the vessels is wholly .hnrwi'ri ’ arf ^iere^ore without any vascular apparatus, and are to be •Itin ere< m,y ,as Processes an,l dependencies of the unnaturally vege- ■ier?iPT' . ■ymC\' oversPread with epidermis, the tissue of which, when Jin • 1Sfa S-° lrreSu^ar enlargement of the vessels of the mucous membrane, K|?tiec a*lc complication,) are drenched with transuding blood, or in : mly cha rr° j S} mucous juices, which, however, are only inorganic-728 OPERATIONS ON POLYPS. polyp grasped with them, and separated by a twisting rather than a dra'Wgf motion. This method is simple and quick ; it is usually followed slight reaction from the injury done, the neighbouring parts are ^ damaged, nor disturbed in their functions; recurrence of the dise ^ less frequent after this than after other methods. But tearing ou applicable if the polyp have a broad base, if it be attached to yielding if it be very deep seated, and if difficulty in stopping bleeding bc ,oar ’ (, 2316. Cutting off the polyp, which some of the moderns endea' ^ . a 1 A * • . . 1 1 * 1-1 .1. t 1 Wl f\ 1 QPjlJ't bring into general practice, is only applicable where the disease deep-seated, and the introduction of the instruments necessary But in fleshy polyps, with the unnatural growth of the parenchyma, the , is also an arterial vascular system, they live as self-reproducing substanc< in which an organic circulation can be observed, and the cellular substam <■ is converted rather into a fibrous texture (a). From this circumstan. « the blood-vessels in polyps are sometimes found very numerous, often $ very small quantity, and at other times entirely wanting. Therefore, t | opinion held by some may be correct, to wit, that polyps have no veSBfiifl but merely possess blood canals in their tissue, which are not like bloo j;4 vessels ordinarily separated from the surrounding parts (&). Polyps are formed in all ages, in either sex, in every constitution; tin are most frequent in adults, but rarer in very old persons. The occasional causes are dyscrasies, especially scrofula, syphilis, ai continued irritation of the mucous membrane by -external influence i producing a condition which is kept up by irritation, and give anothiM tone to the vegetative process of the mucous membrane. In this latt- \ circumstance, is probably the reason that polyps are most commonly seate * at a little distance from the passage of the skin into mucous membran and that they frequently occur in the womb. In many instances the aetiology of polyps is quite obscure. 2313. The prognosis is guided by the nature, form, and seat of tl polyp. Mucous polyps are in general more easily cured than those whic are hard ; the harder a polyp is, the more is cancerous degeneration to 1 dreaded, which when once set in, no cure can be effected. The broaik the base of the polyp, the more difficult; and the more it is necked, tl easier is its removal. Such is also the case when the polyp is developt near the outlet of a cavity, and when the proportionate size of the latter t the former does not interfere with the employment of the necessary instn ments. The more completely a polyp is removed, the more certain is tn cure ; if bits of it remain, it is developed afresh ; nevertheless, even afttt its complete removal, a recurrence is not infrequent. _ j 2314. The cure of polyps is effected by tearing, or by cutting them of by tying them, and by destroying them with the actual cautery, or othe escharotics. The choice of these several remedies must be directed the individual case. The drying used in former times, the tearing to pieces, (Paclcs/Egiseta, i- - casis,) torsion, (Buodon,) the squeezing to pieces, and pulling away piecemeal0 P° are now but matters of history. . . . 2315. Tearing out polyps is performed with the polyp-forceps, w i when the seat of the polyp is well ascertained, are carried to its r00^. th< als< operation can be effected without injury of the neighbouring Parts ^ Annalen des Chirurgischen Cli- (6) ^ Meissner, Korf*** (rt) ScHREQER nicumj* aufter Universitat zu Erlangen, 1817. Erlangen, p. 47. scliiedenen p. 13. Leipzig, 1320.729 POLYPS IN THE NOSTRILS. when the seat of the polyp admits the use of remedies to stanch the ? bleeding, which is always to be feared in cutting it off. This practice is also objectionable, inasmuch, as the disease almost always recurs, its roots still remaining. Otherwise, a partial cutting off may be requisite in those f, cases where the cavity in which the polyp is seated is quite filled by it, for the purpose of introducing the instruments necessary to tear it away or ■ cut it off. The extensive experience of Dupuytren, however, proves that considerable bleeding, i after cutting off a polyp, and its recurrence, are not more frequent than after the other it modes of treatment; at least such is the case with polyps of the womb, rectum and | pharynx (Pigne.) 2317. Tying a polyp is specially indicated where it is situated deeply '0 and on an organ which, on account of its yielding, will not allow tearing y away; further, when the polyp has a broad firm base, and also, when 9? severe bleeding is feared, if any other practice be followed. As the polyp I after being tied, swells and enlarges, because, on account of the situation 91: of the arteries in the middle of its root, the circulation is not completely r arrestecI> except in the superficial veins, tying must not be had recourse to p when the polyp is so situated, that the functions of more important organs I are disturbed or destroyed by its swelling; and even considerable bleeding may be caused by this mode of treatment. It must also be observed that E m many cases tying is extremely difficult, and the repeated introduction E “ JJ ins?“‘ rtndered ^cessary. By a gentle graduated drawing ■-toQether of the ligature severe pain may indeed be prevented ; but in v niany instances it requires tightly tying, by which violent pain is pro- 3 f.nd in \ery inflammatory subjects, this is caused even by very ! : ft ,g t6Td ugatU1p- Wh6n’ after a Pol3'P Aas been tied, it begins H o be destroyed, a flow of extremely stinking ichor ensues, which affects I ‘^ neighbouring parts, and is very troublesome to the patient. ’ , destroying a polyp with the actual cautery, is only applicable i "Slv«] y? i T'M" “,e •Iight,ef ‘0Uch’and *e patent has become ,reatly ex austed by the previous bleedings ; when the polyp cannot be .. »t,sfactor,Iy managed in any other way ; and lastly, when it" ™ “a„? n rcrus- fapee<iy t" “^requisite' i" «»• I ' the antrum Highmonanum, other escharotics may also be employed («) A.—OF POLYPS IN THE NOSTRILS. ' ?De Jcssxed, B. et J„ Dissert, ergo ex ligatura Polypi Narium tutior curatio. Paris, Leviet, Observations sur la Cure Radicale rles nliKmi,™ , ' 'orge et du nez, opdres par de nouveaux mtyenf JSs PaSf int k P^Up’ Iifti0 faCUiS at<1Ue tUta Darium curand! Po,yP°s- Vienna;, 1768. C. 209. ’ Edition"1of" 1*783° Pol;ypUS of the Nose ; in his Chirurgieal Works, vol. iii. oL *'• p. 1812? P°lypeS deS Nannesi in his (Euvres Chirurgicales, Baltiia7978trument0rum ad PoIyPorum extirpationem, eorumque K«eysig, Dissert de Polypis Narium. Yitembergm, 1802. I ( ,^CHAMPS’ rra“C deS MaIadies dos Fosses Nasales et de leur sinus. Paris, 1804. j Schmidt, R., Comment, clilmrg. de Polyport.m congestions licrol., 1820. 4to. ; cum lab. xv.KINDS OF POLYPS IN THE NOSTRILS; 730 Petit Radel, Considerations sur les Polypes des Fosses Nasales, et les moye auxquels jusqu’iei on a eu recours pour leur guerison. Paris, 1815. Meissner, above cited, p. 144. Gruner, Dissert, de Polypes in cavo Narium obviis. Lipsice, 1825 ; cum tab. iv. 2319. Polyps occur more frequently in the nostrils than in any oth* cavity. They arise either from the walls of the nostrils or from tl : frontal sinuses; they may even have their root in the antrum Highmoru numi and as they grow, may branch into the nostrils. They are mo. commonly situated on the upper outer wall of the cavity of the nose, an in their further development assume its form. They, therefore, enlare usually at first vertically, and having reached the floor of the nostri i increase more horizontally ; not unfrequently they grow towards th i throat; oftentimes even in both directions, in consequence of which, th i polyp is divided into two processes. There is commonly but a singl polyp ; yet not unfrequently several are produced at the same time, an. even in both nostrils. 2320. The following are the symptoms caused by nasal polypsA first the patient complains of a long-continued snuffling, loses the posve> of smelling, has his nose stopped up, and a great discharge of fluid froir it. These symptoms often vary, according to the state of the weather and are more violent in damp, and less so in dry warm weather. In pro portion as the polyp enlarges, the passage of the air through the nostri becomes more difficult, and at last the nose is completely filled; i projects through the external opening of the nose, or enlarges towards the throat, in which case it may considerably interfere with breathing am swallowing. When the increase of the polyp has become very great, the walls of the nostrils enlarge in every direction, the passage of the feai> through their duct is stopped up, the nasal partition is thrust to the oppo- site side, in consequence of which the healthy nostril is narrowed, and* last all the bones are pressed out of their place. The discharge, wbi > had hitherto been mucous, is sometimes streaked with blood, become* ichorous and stinking; the polyp ulcerates, suppuration attacks the bom*, and the disease, by wearing out the patient’s powers, may cause dettn. The growth of the polyp is frequently accompanied with intense headacne, which spreads over half of the face. Many polyps bleed v ery tasi y violently, and thereby cause great weakening. , 2321. Nasal polyps are either the so-called hard polyps, red ?olt’a sensible, although not causing any great pain ; or they are soft or w polyps, of a leathery nature, of pale colour, accompanied with cop ^ mucous secretion, and varying according to the state of the wea RT ’ , they are of a firmer character, of cartilaginous hardness, very P** . ... bleed on the slightest touch, and easily run into cancerous degenera Upon these differences rests their division into malignant and benign w The malignant polyps are those which from their beS‘”,”nf panied with severe pain in the head or the upper part of the when they appear externally have a pale red or livid colour, are very ,)ed • *’ ’ t movable, but firmly fixed, ana •i to the touch, bleed readily, are not movable, but firmly nxeo, a. ,ucea at many parts to the mucous membrane ; coughing and smmng 1 is painful sensation in the nose or in the fore part of the head . a «« a discharge of stinking ichor . . ,.. ]e or brownis'1 The polyp is benignant, when it has a grayish-white, paie, th, colour, is of a soft nature, is accompanied with little pain in its isli731 THEIR CAUSES AND PROGNOSIS. si and is not painful when touched ; when occasionally it increases and then !« diminishes in size ; when, excepting at its root, it does not adhere to any i other part of the nostril; and when it is movable in sniffing, and secretes mucus. 2322. The causes of nasal polyps are in many instances doubtful. They * nay sometimes be produced by mechanical injury, poking the nose with a.: die fingers, and other things ; but, for the most part, the nasal polyps are io situated that these causes can have no influence. In general, a catarrhal inflection of the mucous membrane of the nostril, a continued blennorrhcea os the origin of these polyps. . In many cases, the polyp is causally con- ■wected with a general dyscrasic affection, as syphilis, suppressed natural discharges, and the like, which seems to be proved by the frequent pro- 0 luchon, at the same time and in the same nostril, of several polyps bv ! iheir frequent recurrence after removal, and by the accompanying- symp- toms of general ailment. The disposition to form polyps often seems connected with the natural develojiment of the body, as they frequently • ccurat the period of puberty, or this unnatural formative activity is at .^ favoured by the loosening up of the mucous membrane; and truly 1 j e healthiest persons, who about puberty are subject to frequent bleedino- ™ th? nos.tnIs are commonly affected with nasal polyps. & ftj"® *?urstlng sunder and diseased changes of the nose-bones are not hajs simply the result of their mechanical separation by the polyp but the *sease ^e soft parts and of the bones, is co exSent r' hdpnb^h drpend 0n 0n<; and the same cause; which is especially the case dien the disease is produced and kept up by a dyscrasy (a). } ;od when the n -d Pr?®?ur? tlle nostrils, by spontaneous bleeding from the nose • : uisl red co oSyPthSe VIS,ble’ * redder’ and theace towards its rootf frequentlyofS f mh rapW 1 'he “”“S 'S e™,er’ th‘ bl“di"S ■>» touch?.* S the 1 ]fj„ , prT°t of .nasal Poln» depends on their nature seat t t'gin, and complication with other diseases The mi,™, i ’ : eng their growtli their 7 7Lm t0 afsume cl"‘ cancerous ciiaracter i bp is LnecTeifZlltiZu^ZTZ!° ^ Wtal "» l,Per treatment nr nthJ? «erai aisease, the fatter must be first met by j|P wiH more certainly recur* ^ & performance of the operation, the I 24' but if early discovered, (0 Nosogrnpluo Cliirurgicale, vol.’iv. p. 324. 1821. Fifth Edition. ,OPERATION FOR NASAL POLYPS 732 especially when of the mucous kind, the unnatural vegetative process the mucous membrane may be checked, and the incipient formation of t! polyp prevented, by the application of cold astringent fluids, by sniffing i powders of calomel, or oxysulphuret of antimony with sugar, by toucliir with tincture of opium, by purging, and corresponding general treatment The removal of nasal polyps may be effected by tearing away, 1 tying, by cutting off, and by destroying them with the actual cautery. 2325. Tearing away a nasal polyp is the most common and indeed tl most suitable mode of cure, when the polyp, be it fleshy or mucous, is n. deep seated, has not a very broad base, and is not -very hard. For tlr purpose p)°lyp~forcePs are used, of different size, and either straight ( curved. The blades of good polyp-forceps must be a little hollowed i front and rough, so that the polyp may be more firmly grasped; the edges must be neither very thin nor sharp, or the polyp will be easif snipped asunder; they must be broad and strong, and their handles sufl ciently long (a). Schreger (/;) uses also forceps with disjointed parallel arms. 2326. Previous to tearing away the polyp, its extent and the place ( its attachment must be carefully examined with a whalebone probe, whic must be carried around it; the light made to fall properly into th nostril, and the finger passed upwards behind the soft palate; but th frequent irregular surface of the polyp, and the various projections of thi walls of the nostril, render, in most cases, a certain knowledge of the sea of the polyp impossible. On the whole, however, this is not of so grwi consequence as generally supposed ; since less depends on the seat of th polyp, than on its form and size, whether the polyp-forceps can be pro perly carried to its root. 2327. The operation is performed in the following way :—The patien being seated on a chair of corresponding height to that of the operatoi and opposite the light, so that it may fall into the nostril, his head ishel« by an assistant standing behind him, who, placing his hand upon th' patient’s forehead, presses and fixes the head against his own chest. 11 “ polyp do not hang quite loosely in the nostril, attempts must be m e loosen it with the whalebone probe, which should be carrier! round, an the patient, closing the healthy nostril, should blow forward the po yP much as he can. The operator holds the forceps with the thumb and tow finger of the right hand by the rings of their handle, and passes ^ closed into the nostril up to the polyp, then opens them, and bj twisoq and turning them about endeavours to get the polyp between their The patient must strive to force the polyp still further between the whilst the operator, at the same time, tries to carry them up higher to root of the polyp. The forceps are now closed, and being kept b with the screw or the fingers, are twisted on their axis, and at the same pulled, till the polyp be completely separated. _ . ^ 2328. The polyp is frequently removed from its root at one p ^ on sniffing the nose is quite pervious ; but if such be not the■ a portion of the polyp remain, if, perhaps, there be several po 1 > ^ forceps must be again introduced, the remnant grasped and puli tc(1 already directed. If there be not much bleeding, tins must J- the till the whole polyp is removed. ontirp removal ot the p n ■ >0 < 0 ff tiJf !t •* ; (n) Richter’s Anfangsgrilncle, vol. i. pi. v. fix. 1. ((,) Neucr Chiron, figs. 1,2. vol. i- par* U- P' i#r733 BY TEARING AWAY. most certain means of cheeking the bleeding; but if this be dangerous, , the operation must be suspended for a moment, and recourse had to the 3 means already advised for arresting bleeding. 2329. When the polyp has acquired great size, when it protrudes >t? through and stops up the nostril, the introduction of the forceps can then only be effected by seizing the front of the polyp with a pair of forceps i held in the left hand, and drawing it forwards, and thus enlarging the i space in the nostril. If, in such case, the commonly employed forceps ii.cannot be introduced, a pair must be used with a separable joint, with - their blades curved before the joint and meeting at their tip (a). ’ Both • blades must be separately introduced to the necessary height, then closed t and the polyp, torn away according to the rules already given. In Chakriere’s cleverly arranged polypdbrceps, the handles cross, so that when they rest upon eaeh other the blades are open, i! When the size of the polyp is such that it completely prevents the introduction of the *: forceps, it has been recommended to destroy with caustic, or to slice off the nart filline- : j, up the nostril. 1 6 , in preference to using the forceps, 2330. When the forceps cannot be passed up to the root of the polyp I on account of its size, the result of tearing it off is always very doubtful 9: as the polyp may be either torn away at its root, or only that part orasped *' Jy th.e forceps be pulled off. In the latter case there is generally great n bleeding, which is best stanched by the complete removal of the polyp. 2331 If the polyp be rooted far back in the nostril, and hang down ribehind the soft palate into the throat, it is thought best by some practi- tioners to draw it through the mouth ; for this purpose a pair of curved Worceps are introduced through the mouth, behind the soft palate to the ! l01yP> whicb 1S t0 be grasped as high as is fitting, and pulled away; and I |r‘ any portions remain they can usually be removed through the nostril jit is however more convenient to pass the forceps through the nose info ■ t he throat, and guide them by the finger introduced behind the soft palate I Pith which at the same time the polyp maybe pressed between the forceps’ fj-n general, tying the polyp is indicated in these cases. I earing away the polyp with a noose, ii p in every case to be avoided. ,BleedinS always follows tearing off a polyp; this is often very j Cann0t 36 knTn bef°re the °Peration> to what extent this • arL "’ r , necessary means for arresting it should be in readiness. The I n°I bl,ee.dln/ ]s, always less when the whole polyp and its root are lied Off, but if only part be torn away the bleeding is considerable nm ieTTfSt m°de of popping it is the complete removal of the rem- LL • Jhe ,mean? used for arresting bleeding are, sniffing up or inject- dSm andTeeriJlneSar 5? ThEDEN’s arquebusade, solution of md rolled tH lke,;.or a blt,of ]lnenor lint soaked in an astringent fluid |?e^edpaUr?’ Tth * Poa?ef ,With thG f°fCepS’ °r a — P»be^ to the no-er ° ti' 4 c n°std be very wide, pressure may be made with the •ont openin sTf be.,ineffe.c{ual }° th« bleeding, the hind and tobeC^^“"V,/,mU8t be pluFed with Bellocq’s tube, which irus, forward so I n D08® th\throat> an(1 the spring it contains ld to the knob at U Tay P1,0;!®01 [rom ,behlnd the palate into the mouth, iently thick nh.tV!% f d°"b G thiead must be attached, with a suffi- y thick plug at its extremity. To the pad a second thread must be (a) Richter, Anfangsgriinde, vol. i. pl. v. fig. 2—Schueoer, above cited.734 OPERATION FOR NASAL POLYPS BY added for the purpose of pulling it out afterwards (1). The spring is no' - to be drawn back into the tube, the instrument removed from the nose- :i and the pad, by means of the thread, brought into the hind opening of th ; nostril so as to close it. The two threads hanging out of the nostril are t be separated and between them as much torn lint passed into the front open4ffl ing of the nostril as will stop it up, and then the two threads are to be tied t on the lint. An elastic catheter may be used instead of Bellocq’s tube, kflj [(1) Bellocq’s canula is one of the most clever and handy instruments ever inventec tt» and admirably fitted for plugging the nostril, or for introducing a thread any where, i vs which, without it, great difficulty, waste of time and annoyance, if not indeed great paial 1, to the patient, are experienced. I brought it five and twenty years since from Park ‘| and have frequently used it with the greatest facility. It is an instrument which ever: 9 practitioner should always have about him, and ought to be found in every pocket-cast.$9 It is not necessary to have any additional thread passing through the arch of the fance ttl| and mouth for the purpose of pulling the plug back, which is always best withdrawn b; i drawing it gently through the front opening of the nostril, pulling the thread by whicl I it has been introduced so soon as a purulent discharge begins from the nostril, whicl * generally occurs about the third or fourth day; but the plug must not be meddled witl : till then, as if it be the clot in the bleeding vessel is disturbed, and the bleeding returns-'* and requires the plug to be again introduced. I prefer a piece of very soft dry sponger K as nearly as possible corresponding to the size of the nostril, or even a little largeral which must be carried quickly through the mouth and throat to the hind opening of the :c nostril, otherwise it will soon be filled with moisture, and cannot be introduced ph-fl it has been clipped so small that it is useless. When the sponge has entered the nostri. j it must be gently drawn forwards till the bleeding cease, when it is to be left, and as iv . J expands with the blood it soon fills up, and adapts itself to the whole cavity of the nostril." i Stuffing the front opening of the nose is quite unnecessary, if sponge be used; and if the ll bleeding do not stop, the practitioner may be sure the sponge does not reach the bleeding. 9 vessel, and must arrange it properly by introducing a probe through the front opening: a of the nostril, and varying the position of the sponge till the bleeding be arrested, which rj is done easily, although in general drawing the sponge forward with the thread is suffi-sl cient. Sometimes there is a little difficulty in getting the sponge through the arch oi I the fauces, as it catches the soft palate, and pulls it either directly against the spine, or up against the back of the nostril; it is therefore best always to keep the sponge close to J the knob of the spring, as it is then most manageable. The thread by which it is j attached should, therefore, be merely threaded in the eye of the knob, one long end left* out at the mouth, and the other carried with the spring into the nose, and having been brought out first at the front of the nostril, there left. The canula is then, with its knob*! drawn close up, to be drawn back along the thread through the throat, and then by pulling the end hanging from the nostril, the other end of the thread with the sponge is pulled into the throat. If the sponge catch upon the soft palate, it may be quickly freed •'j by passing the finger into the arch of the fauces, and gently slipping the palate down* over the sponge, when all difficulty immediately ceases. The explanation of this pWj ceeding requires many w'ords, and may seem tedious, but the whole operation from d first introduction of the canula till the proper placing of the sponge, ought not to occaraf at furthest a couple of minutes, but often not half that time if the rules just ^ attended to. If Bellocq’s canula be not at hand, a common bougie serves the PurP~°j^ as well as an elastic catheter; it must be bent to the curve of a common catheter, a« carried along the floor of the nostril into the throat. The patient opens widely, and the end of the bougie being seen, is grasped with dressing forceps, and dra 1( forwards till it protrude from the mouth. A strong thread is now tied to the end ot ^ bougie, having a piece of sponge attached to its loose extremity ; after which the boup • I is gently pulled back through the mouth, throat, and nose, bringing with it the t ^ ? and the sponge, which is brought into the nose as directed already. This isnnicn ^ , tedious, and, compared with the former, a more clumsy proceeding, but is a good Any bleeding from the interior of the nose may be managed readily in the same way I —J. F. S.] *>1 2333. If, after the operation, inflammation ensue, it must be j by suitable treatment, but generally it soon subsides. When the et = litis been stopped by the plug, the lint may be withdrawn from 11TYING WITH BELLOCQ'S CANULA. 735 of the nose on the third day, and the hinder plug pulled out by the thread h hanging from the mouth. If there be suppuration in the nostril some ,}, mild decoction may be thrown up. To prevent the recurrence of the polyp astringent injections are gene- rally used. Perhaps a seton in the neck might do good service. If the y polyp grow again the operation must be repeated. 2334. Tying a nasal polyp avoids indeed the danger of bleeding, but t leads to other results, and in my opinion has not the preference over tear- i ing it off, which is given by some practitioners. The application of a .i ligature is indeed, in most cases, accompanied with considerable difficulty, 4 and to the patient with no trifling inconvenience. If the polyp largely fill a ithe cavity of the nostril, the ligature can very seldom be applied suffi- U ciently close to its root; its earlier return after having been tied is there- t fore to be feared, although indeed, in some instances, when the ligature u has not been applied directly on the root, the whole polyp has been thrown off by subsequent inflammation and suppuration. The inflam- K»; mation which occurs after a polyp has been tied, often spreads over the }i whole Schneiderian membrane and the neighbouring parts, and mav pro- i duce serious symptoms. The swelling of the polyp after tying, as well as ic the subsequent discharge of stinking ichor, may give rise to great incon- r.' venience. The peculiar states of the disease, which may specially indicate p*ywg» are; therefore, when the polyp has a broad firm base, when the appli- cation of the forceps is impossible, or when the patient will not submit to jets being torn off. b A pouch-like protrusion of the inner fold of the mucous membrane, if it cannot removed by the use of astringents, or by repeated scarifications, is favourable 1 . not f°r tearing off. Internal disease in connexion with this complaint ' oust have suitable treatment. When this protrusion of the mucous membrane is very ^. xtensive, it is only got rid of with great difficulty, or not at all. Ic: 2335. Of the numerous modes of proceeding which have been recom- » mended for tying nasal polyps, I consider the introduction of the ligature I vith Lellocq’s canula and Desault’s method to be the most preferable T specially applies to polyps at the back of the nostril, and the itter to those m front. The best material for a ligature is a silken f r hempen thread. i th3r Jhe- aPP]ication of a ligature with Bellocq’s canula is managed II U inii ! °7ln° Way :~The Patient having been put in the same position 1 for tearing off the polyp, Bellocq’s tube is passed between the • lot the polyp and the neighbouring wall of the nostril into the throat. £Mtstener|Pr0 ^ °r in ltS eye’ a lon° hernPen or silken thread is , :*V!’ and WIt 1 the instrument drawn back into the nose. After the Between Hip Cer}, °?^ned b'°m the knob, Bellocq’s tube is again passed id thn p ? ,a ,of tie nostnl on the other side, and the foot of the polyp, 'the nrm °f f'6 • lianginS in tIie mouth is attached to the knob loon £ f!!lUde<! '^r!ng? an,d drawn back throu8'h the nose. In this way ' the nr ed'^Ith the thrGad, the two ends of which encircle the sides t -ought inm'tl rie. l7° ,CndS -°f the thread hanging from the nose are )lYp . , the end of a loop-tier, which is introduced to the foot of the :cordi~he lo°P IS 111 a d«gree tied together by drawing its ends, at it inn! mrcumstances. The loop-tier is to be wrapped in lint, so the usual manner"1^6 * n0strd ’ and ds projecting end supported736 DESAULT’S MODE OF TYING NASAL POLYPS. As the loop -when moist does not remain open, and in drawing it together the pol ■ is not always grasped, it is necessary to guide it with the fingers of the left hand behi - the soft palate. To the loop catching the polyp, another of a single thread is attach. : with which, when the former being drawn does not catch the polyp, it may be pull. 5 -j back through the mouth, and so the necessity of reintroducing it with Bellocq’s cam: > be avoided. The loop may be kept open by drawing the thread in a piece of elas; tube, which when the thread has caught the polyp, may be so removed that one end the thread may be drawn till the tube appears (a). The tie is made as already directcfu For polyps which are developed towards the upper hinder part of the nostril towar >: the throat, I make use of a peculiar pair of forceps for the more certain introduction . i' the thread (6). Hatin has also proposed a similar instrument. It is further advantages a! in these cases to pass the ends of the thread, before drawing them, into a loop-tier 0: > Levret’s tube, and to introduce it as far as possible into the nostril, for the purpose - if thereby giving the loop a more vertical direction (c). 2337. In tying- a polyp situated in the front of the nostril, according . d Desault’s method, a silver canula slightly curved upwards, and a loo drawer, are introduced up to the root of the polyp, with one ligatu through the cavity of the former and the hole of the latter. The loo drawer is given to an assistant, who holds it steady, and the Surgeon tin carries the canula round between the polyp and the wall of the nostril, ai back to the loop-drawer. The drawer is now to be taken with one, ai the canula with the other hand, so that both instruments cross, ai the thread at the upper end of the canula lies above that of the looj drawer. The drawer is now held steady, and the canula brought baci both ends of the ligature introduced into the hole of a loop-tier, which passed up to the root of the polyp, and the loop-drawer removed after it h. been freed from the ligature by pushing forwards its stem. The tyir is managed as before (d). In cases where, on account of the large size of the polyp, the introduction of instrumet is impossible, the soft palate has been cut through, which, however, is rarely necessar- The following works may be consulted upon the different modes of proceeding, ai the different instruments requisite for carrying a loop around the polyp, instead oftyn or cutting it off:— j Glandorp’s Tractatus de Polypo Narium. Bremen, 1828, describes an eyed hook-i Dionis, Cours d’Ope'rations de Cbirurgie, p. 464. Eighth Edition. Paris, 1777, gw his crow-beak forceps. Junker et Gorter, Conspectus Chirurgiac, p. 221. Ilaloe, 1731. Chirurgiffi rep® gata, p 202. Vienna:, 1762; in which are mentioned the flexible needles. I-Ieister, Instructiones Chirurgica:, vol. ii. pi. xix. fig. 12, gives his eyed probe. Levret, above cited, pi. v. fig. 9, in which Lecat’s forceps are shown. In Memoires de l’Acadcmie de Chirurgie, vol. iii. p. 598, pi. vii. fig- , III ITAC1UU1ICO 1 iAUUUVUl.u r- A Journal de Mcdecine, vol. xxxv. p. 235, gives his single and double cylinder, Bell, Benjamin, System of Surgery, vol. iv. p. 132. 1787. Second Edition—describ EycKHOLDT’s mode of treatment . Tiieden ; in neue Bemerkungen, und Erfahrungen zur Bereicherung der W un &n neikunst, vol. ii. p. 195, pi. iii. figs. I, 2. His forceps. IIatin, A. F., Mcmoire sur de nouveaux instrumens propres ii faciliter la hgatn’ des Polypes qui naissent de la base du Crane. Paris, 1829 (a) Punois, Propositions sur diverses parties de l'Art de gu.-rir. Paris, 1818. (b) Ueber die Einrichtung der chirurg. Klimk zn Heidelberg, 1820. PI. i tigs. 2,3. tc') Sabatier, Medectne Operntoire, vol. 11. „ 218 —A von Winter, GesrliSchte eines anssorst erossen ltachenpolvpen, durch die Abbindung nusgerottet, ncbst allgemeinen Bemerkungen uber die Ausrottung der Baclienpolypen uberhaupt; in von Sikroi.d's Chiron, vol. iii. P- ’ J Zano, Operationen, vol. i. p. 483. 00- . , (d) Hesaui.t, above cited, yob P" .*j0, ,t Bir.it at ; in Memoires de labocirte d - T „ an „. P 333, gives a mo<iificat.on of 5 B, , method ; but. acconling to m\ OVIV I more practicable.—Schreoer und jiteratu ■ --'■•n der Englischen und Yraniosisclien Lr i. p. 378, figs. 1-6.—Zano, above c.tcd, •187, pi. i. figs. 2-7. volTREATMENT OF POLYPS BY THE ACTUAL CAUTERY. 737 Batin, A. F., Supplement au Me'moire sur de nouveaux Instrumens propres a faciliter la Ligature des Polypes du Nez et de la Gorge. Paris, 1830. Sach^, A., Beschreibung des elastichen Ligaturwerkzeuges and birnformigen Brenn- eisen. Berlin, 1830. ° 2338. As soon as the polyp is tied it begins to swell and become t painful; in a few days it crumples up and mortifies, and a stinking ichor nows fiom the nostril. The pain is often very severe, and the inflam- f mation spreads; under these circumstances the loop must be slackened a p little. If the polyp swell up so much as to produce symptoms, the loop must be so tightened, that all influx of blood into the polyp be prevented, I tand the polyp may also be scarified at the same time. When there is 1 bleeding the loop must also be well tightened. To lessen the nasty smell ^ a,TC;d !chor’ ln.)‘ections of aromatic herbs or of diluted acids are often made. I he loop must be tightened every day till the polyp fall off, "h“fy‘ has been loosened by the ligature cutting in, it may be seized 11,7 ?? antl t0rn .off! and after «» separation, astringent injections must be used for some time. When the polyp is expected to fall off the « <iro»^ 3' near'the fromTf K “ is alone !ndicated when it is rooted I i”if the W ‘I’6,,'’031"1’ has ?, 'ondinous stem and no broad base; • it 1 .{,ont f the P°]yp so block up the orifice of the nose that ■ ,* possible to introduce the forceps or tying-instruments Bleed I Kg ? after cu«ing off' a polyp are specially to be feared b\ZZ T, P°lyPKmay. bf cut off with either scissors or a curved littSwards T Wlt,h a Pa!r °f hook-forceps, and drawn a EScnnW \ ^ SC1SS?rS arG then t0 be Passed into the nostril, where to and withdrawT ’ Tf ‘Vw f°0t ,°f the polyp’ Thich is then cut through « with stifi ,C \ ^ a blstoury be used, Pott’s, with its blade covered lun to tbkintg Pk?eu t0 Withhl half an inch °f button, may be carried I the bl7ding™ftlt,tP'Dl»’’;vhic.h i‘ •«* off whilst drawn forward. If 1 .vad of lintffmoktPnP 1 °paratl0n be not much, it may be stanched by a ( 'ecomniLde™^! " 2332^f ®°me,styPtlc; s7ere bleeding the means I eadily rr0t at tho not f mfy be Usecb ^ tbe bleeding part can be I >e disposed tl’ tUa? cautei7 may be also employed. If the polyp Bwlicati0nd0f es^haToS”’ * be prevented by the cautious \ pffBRI,CIUS ,An AWA1*ENDENTE, Severinus, and others - writersttg polyps have been recommended by the following’ 1 £®*RET» above cited> pL iv. figs. 11-14. RET> k Art du Coutelier, pi. cxii. fig. 3. u wHAT ’ uu ^mtei,er- p»- cx»- fig. 3. I 7*" Wilh * "ew^nstrlSSS.N»“ i«*• vision With a nTw insirZ . ,ary PoIypes r<-‘move<l from the Nose • the Booth, Thom es ■ i " ’ 2* °th" by ,mProved forceps. London, 1805. Schreger, above cited Repository, vol. xiii. p. 283. 1820. l.uStowhLlfcf”?//46 A?“ml Cmt"y should only be had re- " «» much M <i’liSl,teS? tT,oh’ "d'™ tha l*fa* & \ trocar-tube wrarmed ^1'11’ cani?ot be removed in any other way. olyp> and the space hp*1*™ "T ‘ m[)lstened linen is passed up to the I111' wet lint. Hh UiV tUbe and Walls of thti nose stuffed VOL. Uw Utc-hot trocar is then thrust through the tube 3 uPOLYPS IN THE THROAT; 738 so deeply, and so directed into the polyp as is believed will hit the poly q in its greatest diameter. The polyp is not in this way at once destroyer' o but a violent degree of inflammation is produced, and it is got rid of b 1 < suppuration. The inflammation, severe headache, and fever, which folio the use of the actual cautery, must be diminished by mild fluids injectetB into the nostril, by due quietude and proper antiphlogistic treatment. J.. suppuration ensue, soothing injections must be employed ; but it continual t a long time, till the whole polyp has been destroyed by suppuration:) When it has once lessened, the polyp may perhaps be torn off, or any sman * remnant got rid of by cautiously touching it with lunar caustic. m B.—OF polyps in the throat. 9349 niroat-Polyps may be rooted in the hind part of the nostril; and grow towards the cavity of the throat; or they may grow from th i| back of the palate, or even from the walls of the pharynx itself. Ihes 1 polyps are in general of a more firm and fleshy nature, and usually attache** by a short thick stem. In proportion to their size, they cause pressur* and irritation of the tissues of the throat, cough, choking, and difficult of breathing and swallowing. The rubbing to which such polyps ar . subjected by the touch of the food in swallowing, very commonly prc duces a continued irritation of their surface, and even ulceration. la* discovery of a throat-polyp is very easy, so soon as it has acquired any size 2343. The structure of these polyps, and the nature of the parts will which they are connected, render it impossible, or at least very dangerous to tear them off; only in those cases where they are attached by a thu | loose stem, con this be undertaken with the forceps. The best mod of treatment is tying them, which in general is most convenient j _ in the same way as recommended {par. 2336) for nasal polyps paSOT into the pharynx. If the polyp more conveniently permit tying throng! the mouth, Desault’s apparatus is best suited for that purpose. Snpri'il instruments for tying throat-polyps are recommended by Dallas W ». and an improvement of the latter by Buauk d). 2344. The symptoms, after tying a throat-polyp, are general]K as, by its swelling, the breathing is considerably interfered with^nd danger of suffocation may ensue. Tightening the ligature and scar to ^ of the polyp are the only means of lessening the symptoms. Weeding, « ligature must be tightened till all circulation in he stopped When the polyp begins to be loose, it may be pulled ofl »» the forceps ; which must be also done when, from t le l)ll,r' ;< t |1|, ^ b, polyp, the stench is unbearable, and the neighbouring parts are affected . method of rotting off polyps is applet ... 1 j 1 tlm rvenilh(KIM'S* ” only to those which are above the narrow passage of the . _ 1 _ • +l,r, urn 11 nf flip fpxnnhnnns Itself, It cau ■' l only to tnose which tup nou-v —~r - 0I)Ij a if the polyp arise from the wall of the cesophagus itself, 1^ ^ ^ be brought into the throat in choking, and88 llFor such easel for a moment without suffocation, it is impossible to tie 1 . ^ fl zlso proposes laryngotomy, which having been performed, and polyp brought into the throat, it may be tied (e). (^Edinburgh Physical and Literary Essays, vol. ill. P- a-3; fe) Operationen, vol. 1. P- b™' gj xttVn'sChirnrg. BlbUoth., vol. ii. part i. System of Surgery, vo.. w. P. M* fig. S. Zcitung, •iS vol. iii* P‘ B«*’IN THE MAXILLARY SINUS. 739 According to Benjamin Bell (a), for those polyps situated in the oesophaqus, a slin- I loop should be passed down, which by frequent retractions, may catch the nolvn and then the curved double cylinder should be passed down to it. ’ — C.-OF POLYPS IN THE MAXILLARY SINUS. S“f iM *“•*• d“ Maxillaire; i„ Mem. ejSmmorb™1'Di“'rl- ^ ““““ tamore aliisque frontis et M»i,te “f™- Jourdin, Traite des Maladies et des Operations de la Bouche. Paris, 1778. Desault, (Euvres Chirurgicales, vol. ii. p. 165. Deschamps, Traite' des Maladies des Fosses Nasales et de leur Sinus. Paris 1804 1a8M.CHH0RN’ DiSSCrt de P0lyP',S’ sPeciatim de Po'ypis in Antro Highmori. Getting., ii" voUNif.rEBOLD’ B’’ SammlUDg Sdtener und auserlesener chirurgischer Beobachtungen, |kLrSKT809. DiSSert ^ SiQU maxillari’ eJ'usdem morbis ii^que medendi ratione. 5 viAEIplate.D' Ueber d*e abnormenMetamorphosen der Highmorshohle. Leipzig, 1810; Krankheiten der Gesichtsknocken und ihrer Schleimhaiite, t ^U84N4N; ^ krankhafte Zustiinde der Oberkiefer-Hdhle. 2346. I shall now treat, not merely of doIvds but olsn nf oil ti .. peases which may be produced in the Highmorian cavfh"andsetoutwbT &hZoTn/ mXC°.US!.inin^ as the first step of these various diseases , according to their different course, and the causal relations nf h ’ ma!rr°duce a ^norrhagic state, ulceratioThoZl ul ^teataJ,, **'“"**• <*"»4 I # eitLf^“forl'7nST„°“S m‘mbrant °f th° Highmorian cavity B ,,i tu01. r cte or an insidious course ; most commonly the lotto,. £££&? “1?rtS’„i:is,"oibatrfirst m ne s~ of j om the edo-e of the teeth into tl "nh^’ tbrobbln&. Pairb which extends Increased heat head achiTamTf Jf.,either ver^ severe and constant, with ' thm «a°fe77^T 5 Pressure, but Pain> not increased *4fVf o< - Pressure, b°uTirsoo7aTtopUL h'1 *eeilot c°nfant dull pain, not increased 1 le Patient blows from his nose mndf *’ aad becomes severe and obstinate. :aPes into the nose when thehLrif T ,fluid’streaked will‘ blood ; or it •nance of this hi i B- bcad 18 aK on tbe other side. By the con 1 ^morian cavity the mucous membrane of the y graC,uaHy become swollen, and its opening of commu- (a) Above cited. 3 b 2740 POLYPS IN THE MAXILLARY SINUS; nication with the nostril is narrowed, or completely stopped up. Tl unnaturally secreted fluid, which is either puriform, lymph-like, actu pus, or even a solid cheese-like substance collects in the cavity, which expands; at the same time the cheek is reddened to a certain extent, tl \ j nostril of the affected side becomes drier, the pain becomes more sever r loss of sleep, and the like, ensue. As the maxillary cavity continuJ enlarging, its walls expand, in general, most towards the front, but al:J| towards the orbit, towards the nostril, and towards the palate; in cons, quence of which great disfigurement of the face, closure of the nostril < the affected side, pressure on the eyeball, and the like, are produced. Tl bony walls, by their expansion, become thinned, and sometimes so soft tkl they yield on pressure of the finger; at last they are destroyed at son one spot, fistulous openings are produced in the cheek, in the orbit, in tl palate, and most commonly at the edge of the tooth-sockets, fiom "hie pus escapes, and a probe can be passed into the maxillary sinus. 2349. The above-mentioned inflammatory symptoms, more or le decidedly pronounced, always precede the formation of polyps, osteostee tojna, osteosarcoma, and exostosis, in the maxillary cavity.. Polyps grow quickly, expand the cavity in all directions, destroy tr front wall or the edge of the tooth-socket, and burst through these open ings • the walls of the cavitv being at the same time softened. Frequently tl polyp passes through the aperture of the cavity into the nostril ; sometime it rises more especially towards the inner angle of the orbit; at other time* leaves the front wall untouched, drives up into the cavity of the skull, and may cause death by pressure on the brain. . In osteosteatoma and osteosarcoma, the bones forming the maxiliar cavity are converted into a mass, consisting in part of a viscid, papp substance, in part of a fat or tallow-like substance, and m part of a earn laginous and bony substance. The enlargement of the tumour caused D a polyp always runs on more quickly than in that from osteosteatoma an osteosarcoma. , , f .1. 2350. Inflammation being considered as the general ground"oik diseases of the maxillary sinus, the following may be mentionedl a* causes. External violence, catching cold, rheumatic, gouty, scrofulousa « syphilitic diseases; suppressed eruptions of the skin, varies a > the teeth corresponding to the maxillary cavity injury of the tooUnwc in drawing teeth, foreign bodies, insects, and the like. 1 lie i minations of inflammation of the maxillary cavity, seem m par j on the variety of its causes, as for example; in catarrhal anc affections of the mucous membrane of the bones of the face, i * H layer especially, is attacked, and the inflammation passes on to btcnm r loosening up, and polypous degeneration of the mucous memb e, ^ gouty and syphilitic inflammation rather attack the under la5cr . kl mucous membrane, which blends with the periosteum, and more q runs into ulceration and degeneration of the bones. . j 2351. The prognosis of the various diseases of the atio« guided by their cause and degree. In the acute course prope if not caused by internal disease, its dispersion may be effected and early treatment, but it is generally more difficult inofth, tions When the disease has proceeded to a closure of the 1 aI1( maxillary sinus, and to organic changes, the c^ is alva Section o impossible without operation. In the blennorrhagic state, 1% 1C ti •v 1 s a <r. 1741 TREATMENT. mucus, or lymph-like fluid in the cavity, tlie prognosis is more favourable than in polyps, and the above-mentioned degeneration of the bony walls. In the further progress of polyps, osteosteatoma and osteosarcoma, cancerous 1 degeneration not unfrequently ensues, a condition which is beyond aid. 2352. In considering the treatment of the different conditions of disease in the maxillary sinus, that of its inflammation must be first taken up. Acute inflammation must be treated strictly antiphlogistically, free blood-letting, leeching, and cold applications to the cheek. If it have been caused by external violence, and any separation of the walls of the sitius be supposed to exist, moderate pressure must also be made. If the :jii infammatory tension be thereby relieved, then, in catarrhal or rheumatic affection, recourse must be had to diaphoretic treatment and to purgatives. ’ If there be restlessness and loss of sleep, to these remedies must be added ( opium in moderate doses, rubbing in opium powder and spittle on the | C “ ““If nioht a strong camphorated belladonna plaster applied. 2353. When the inflammation is chronic or becomes so, which is gene- ra y the case in any causal relation with dyscrasic affections, the treatment ’ must be specially regulated by the disease on which it depends. If there 1 be a Wennorrhagic condition, loosening up of the mucous membrane, which 'Ihen ere,iS a discharSe streaked with blood, injections of I ^ W- deC°,C 10nS mUSt be made int0 the nose> purgatives, and according I S oxIjenence, specially, a snuff composed of ten grains of -a omel and two drachms of sugar, or from two to three grains of sulphuric | SxttrCU17’.and adrauChm °f SU§ar’ and tincture 3 divans, in con- , Inspc -u reraedles wblcl‘ counteract the existing dyscrasy, and in such ■ loseswill depress the vascular action. ■ ^ hen the disease has proceeded to closure of the aperture of .i -he maxillary sinus, and there is any collection in it, or a blennorrhao-ic 1 dslneT’ °r-the U,!Cei'atl0n which has taken Plaoe in the cavity, even whilst feeo-eLratbn'hav^f136115 ?axinot.he c7ured’ or if PolyPs or other kinds of I emedv hv , formecl, opening the maxillary sinus remains the only I ecrflJ’ b> meansi of this, the unnatural collection is emptied, the diseased In estimat' "Ir’ th? diseased Production removed or destroyed. . onsidpZ A 118 °Peratlon’ the leased conditions requiring it must be | r^’,Whe2r the fneral affection ™ which they depend, is, oi can olvn ' lennorrhcea and ulceration are more easily cured than 5 ■Zt2Z“°mrlmia’ Mt‘°sleatomu, and exostosis. In these cases the after 3 . |“ “ extre"!el5, ,lifficult’ «* “fto'-pmluets are easily t enro- I her nr, I ot u"fr'eC|uently run into cancerous degeneration. When these the neishbo^rins bon« ( ie patient’ ri®e’.OI niamfestly assume a cancerous condition and \ phfa dkr6” ^ already mUCh Sunken’ operaS wm’only -eif proposed f Willicl‘ °,pening the maxillary sinus has o'ar toSth fn S°cket °£the second> third, or fourth lrt of the zygomatic ca™ma (Bmaui/t) ; third, the under Wh, the bony pllate^ T" ® SeC°nd and third molar tooth (b); la or Derfnrt.fi!P • Jjthd wh.ere any one part of the cavity is very vui in or Derfnmir ,r • ; waere any one part of so through the al^t^Vw10”11^ through the cheek, or at the same time, ° ine Palate ( Weinhold.) If there be a fi - ;;§teAntt, l^rd'1697-DBAKK, cavity lie sam fistulous aperture, it (/.) Lamobier; in Mem. de l’Acad. deChirurir vol. iv. p. 351, pi. iii. u.c. b‘TREATMENT OF POLYPS 742 may, especially if corresponding with the bottom of the sinus, be sufficiently enlarged. The reopening of the closed aperture of the sinus by injection, by the use of probes and the like, according to Jourdain (a), as well as the perforation of the wall of th sinus in the nose, after Richter’s plan (6), when the cavity protrudes much towards th nose, are objectionable. 2356. Opening the maxillary sinus through the tooth-socket is then only to be undertaken, first, when it contains fluids, pus or mucus ; second, when the tooth-socket itself is specially diseased, when there are also cariou teeth, or they are very painful when touched, when there is caries o the socket, or fistulas have formed between the molar teeth or i their sockets. The second, third, or fourth molar tooth is then to b pulled out, and whilst an assistant properly fixes the patient’s head am draws down the corner of the mouth with a blunt hook, a tiocar, without its canula, is to be passed into the tooth-socket and thrust into the .sinttftj or the alveolar process is to be penetrated with a perforator, and th opening enlarged to such degree that the collected fluid may escape freely and the state of the cavity be properly examined. TOpening the maxillary sinus through the tooth-socket, is the most preferable mode c performing this operation ; and although thrusting in a trocar is usually recommended, l is far more convenient to use the instrument formerly employed for introducing a canid into an obstructed nasal duct, as the extremity of its stem being bent at right angle, ca be more handily introduced after the tooth has been drawn. Not unfrequeutly, tn sharp end of a tent probe bent at right angle readily thrusts through the little shell o bone separating the tooth-socket from the sinus. And it is not even an uncommon c.ream stance to find that either this plate has been absorbed, or one fang of the tooth has pe trated the sinus, so that immediately the tooth is pulled out, the pus escapes.—J. 2357. The escape of the matter is furthered by soothing fluids or luket warm water, with which the patient should frequently wash his mouth, am at the same time, force it into the aperture. If there be any pieces o exfoliated bone on the alveolar process, they must be picked oft with tnc forceps. Any contrivance for plugging up the aperture is unnecessary and also hurtful, by shutting up the fluid in the cavity. If the patten every day push the tip of his little finger into the opening, that will v sufficient to prevent it closing too quickly. Whilst taking food, how' *1 the aperture should be plugged with a little bit of sponge, and afterward.! the mouth again washed out. , When there are ulceration and caries, which are discovered oy character of the discharge and by the probe, means for supporting general health must also be employed besides the local treatment, any loose pieces of bone removed with the forceps. v-m* In a blennorrhagic condition and loosening up of the mucous mem a solution of bichloride of mercury, of sulphate of zinc with tine u opium, or the like must be used. The introduction of a small P°rt,on precipitate ointment on a probe is of good effect. With this local tre must be connected general remedies corresponding to the state ot tnc When by these proceedings the secretion of the mucous me has become healthy, attempts should be made by sternutative to ^ the natural opening again pervious, after which the opening m ^ socket will close. If, however, the aperture cannot be r^r^n)brane socket will close. Ji, However, me uFei tuie u * ^ « — nienibi*ne be sought to get rid of the secretive activity of the mucous treat According to Weiniiold (c) this should always be the objec (a) Above cited, p. 50. (b) Anfangsgriinde, vol. it. p- 300. (<0 p. 23. Von den Krankheiten dcr Gesichtako®*743 IN THE MAXILLAKY SINUS. . ment, as the cure is only effected when secretion ceases, and the whole / cavity filled with granulations. For this purpose Weinhoed recom- s i mends as especially advantageous, diluted tincture of capsicum, and solution i of nitrate of silver. [The restoration of the original aperture between the maxillary cavity and the nostril, J is not of the slightest consequence; at least, so far as the cases I have seen, prove. .. iTnTimATn'n T J „ 1, . iL! J.1. a 1*1 1 . , . */» v jo uv» v* , uu u-uon, oo cio me Lflscs jl iia,ve aetru, pi uve. >> Weinhold’s notion, I do not think, is any thing worth, or at all likely to be correct, for as | soon as the pus has escaped by the hole in the tooth-socket, the inflammation subsides, and jif the lining of the maxillary cavity resumes its natural function. But if the pus have been veryjong pent up, and the mucous membrane destroyed, it is more probable there will I- be exfoliation of the bony walls, than that the whole cavity will be filled with granu- lation. I have not, however, seen any case where either one or other such result has occurred. Weinhold’s recommendation of injecting stimulating solutions cannot be too strongly deprecated, as being fraught with mischief, and should never be followed. It is not, however, objectionable to inject warm water for two or three days after the tooth has been drawn, and the cavity tapped, as thereby it is more quickly cleansed, m and the healthy processes are encouraged.—J. F. S.] * 2358. Boring into the maxillary cavity in the fossa canina is indicated *' when teeth and alveolar process are healthy, in collections of fluid, and q polypous and other degenerations. The patient sitting on a stool, his head ». is fixed by an assistant against his breast, and the corner of the mouth on r the affected side drawn down with a blunt hook. The cheek is to be ipeparated at the front edge of the base of the zygomatic process, in the direction of the second or third molar tooth, by a cut through the o-ura • I the periosteum is to be cut through cross-wise, and the flaps cut offVith -scissors. Upon the bared bone a perforating trephine is then apnlied and $> made to penetrate rather obliquely from below upwards through" the wall ■not the maxillary cavity. An examination is made with a probe to ascertain ! whether there be any after-production, and if there be, to what extent this hole should be enlarged. If necessary, it must be widened first with the " P°lnted a,ld afterwards with the blunt perforator; and if the wall be soft this may be done with a strong curved knife; and the opening should - always be made sufficiently large to introduce the finger. A small-crowned | trt-e also be useful ^ perforating the cavity at this part (a). I he further treatment is guided bv the state ofdisea.se. Tn 2359. The further treatment is guided by the state of disease. In blen- I. ulceratl°n the same proceeding is adopted, as after perforat- T t00th-s°cket. Any after-products existing in the maxillary sinus ; must be removed according to their nature, by cutting away, tearing off ||tying, or by destroying them with caustic. & ’ 2360. Cutting away cannot be employed if the polyp have a broad base ti • x t i 11 n 1 c^uiieiice oi tae dis- Mor withpJyP.13 be draT 'r;11 forvvard> and cut off with the bistoury, gf J with Cooper s scissors : the bleeding must be stanched with wadding KtS°LuSrd With StyPtiCS and°PreSSUre’ °r ** the appliSion’S ??. Uarinl * *•. HIP. straight or I iurvofl fi.rr.rr, u ■ rr ""v "U poiyp witn straight or ,» he prSS. 8 8r“P “ “ ”ear “ possil,le •» its root, is always « h aSt,w CT% -9 "nly T Wl,en the <•>«» cannot bo got )r best of all I,1 p“rpol®’ b“‘yr of antimony, caustic potash, » a solution of the'latte.-; 3t‘i'nt’ being introduced into the cavity. he actual cautery is only to be employed when the other remedies a (a) Desavi.t, above cited, vol. ii. p. 166. pi. i. nga. 1, 2, 3. areTREATMENT OF POLYPS 744 fB 'It 1 \ I fruitless, and even then with great caution. For this purpose, a metalli tube, wrapped in wetted linen, is passed into the opening up to the mid> of the after-product, and a trocar, at wldte heat, thrust through it. If tli unnatural vegetation be by these means stopped, and if hard granulatior. sprout up, they may be treated with astringents till the scarring is completer 2361. The object of boring into the maxillary cavity below the eminen . v- tia molaris, and above the third or fourth molar tooth, is the same as tha • for boring in the fossa canina; and the indications are also the same * The patient having been placed as already described, and the corner of th o. mouth drawn down, the gum and periosteum are divided at the part deter mined, and the bony wall is bored obliquely from below upwards, air from without inwards, with the perforator. The further proceeding is th- same as in boring in the fossa canina. 2362. Boring into the maxillary sinus through the palate, when th palate is much altered by disease, and another situation cannot be conve niently chosen, or at any one part, where the cavity is very thin or burs through, is easily managed from what has been already said on the differen modes of boring; the after-treatment is also guided by the same rule. 2363. For boring into the maxillary sinus upon the cheek, Weinholi proposes several modes of proceeding. If the disease be blennorrhcea, ant loosening up of the mucous membrane, with narrowing and closing of thr 1 aperture, in which the object is to do away with the secretive activity of this * mucous membrane, the needle-trephine (a) must be applied on the bone and an aperture made, rather obliquely upwards, through the distendeo< cheek into the maxillary sinus, four lines from the zygomatic pro cess towards the nose, and the same distance from the lower edge o. the orbit, and then as it is rotated, the front wall of the cavity is piercedr The perforator may also be applied with the same purpose, but insteac of the needle-trephine after having cut into the cheek. A plug is then* introduced into the opening, and fastened to the temple by a thread; il may also afterwards be smeared with red precipitate ointment, and a solu- tion of nitrate of silver, or properly diluted tincture of capsicum may be injected, till the mucous membrane is destroyed (par. 2357.) '2364. If the after-products, polyps, steatomes, fatty growths and the like, or the secretion of the mucous membrane are to be destroyed, the needle-trephine armed with a thread in its eye should be introduced at _ ® appointed place, and whilst the handle is a little raised, the point is caIT1 so downwards through the maxillary si?ius, that it penetrate the lw “ some lines distant from the third molar tooth. In doing this, the to be protected from injury by the forefinger of the left hand, and thepoi of the trephine thrust so far out, that the thread in its eye can be reac t with a hook. The trephine is now withdrawn, and the thread left be 1 > by which either a firm cord or a plug of tape is introduced, and ,ll'^e to be smeared with remedies proper for destroying the after-pro*'11 • In fatty swellings the string should be frequently drawn backwards , forwards, and moistened with oil of turpentine, and as much as P° of the mass removed with Davi el’s spoon. For the destruction o | J or sarcomatous degenerations, the plug should be smeared with a - of lunar caustic, of bichloride of mercury, with red precipitate w and the like. To prevent the acrid fluid escaping into the .]it that part of the string hanging in it a thread should be attached, ai (a) Idccn iiber die krankhaftcn Mctamorphoaen dcr Ilighmorshohle, fig- !• til #1IN THE MAXILLARY SINUS. 745 the upper part of the string is pulled up, the thread must be drawn i through the upper opening of the cavity, and separated from the string. To the lower part of the thread a piece of sponge or a wad of lint is attached, which must be pressed firmly against the opening in the palate, whilst the upper end of the thread is pulled up. The upper part of the I string is then smeared with some of the just-mentioned escharotics, and i replaced in the sinus. If the string be gradually made thicker, it favours | the cure. According to Hedenus, the seton, after the lip has been separated from the upper jaw, >i should be drawn within the mouth through the front wall of the maxillary sinus and the palate, by means of a curved needle (a). 2365. In deciding on the different modes of proceeding for opening 3 the maxillary sinus, it must be remembered that in collections of mucus i and pus, when there are also caries and necrosis of the alveolar process, . and of the walls of the sinus, the principal object must always be to form : a sufficiently large opening, so that the collected fluid may freely escape, : and the loose pieces of bone be removed. For such cases, under the cir- * cumstances above mentioned, (par. 2356,) boring through the tooth- * socket or in the fossa canina is best. The introduction of a seton accord- 1 ing to Weinhold’s method is very advantageous for destroying many -- after-growths. There are, however, degenerations of the maxillary sinus, i in which not merely the mucous membrane, but even the bones are com- [ pletely changed in their tissue, to which neither of the above-mentioned 'ri' modes of treatment are applicable; and the removal of the after-products * 18 alone possible by taking away the greater part of the bony wall so as to J- get at them; or the bone may be divided to the whole extent of the after- I product, as will be directed for the removal of the upper jaw. As to I'the special performance of this operation, nothing decided'can be laid i down ; it must depend on the peculiarity of the case, the circumstances ■rallied to which will be hereafter noticed, in treating of removal of the | upper jaw. In the former case it must be attempted to penetrate the tront wall of the sinus by a semi-circular cut above the alveolar process * with a sickle-shaped knife, and by a like cut through the palate also, so as II o cut out an elliptical portion of the bony wall. The after-product nust now be removed with polyp-forceps, or if its adhesions be firm M must be taken away with the knife. The bleeding during this opera- on is always severe, and requires, if pressure with wads of lint ! “8u™cient, the actual cautery; this is best managed with a bent K e^l! uffhlCf!he ca"ula is wraPPed in wet linen. The actual can- I JauseTt 1 . aPP V6ry, Tai'tly t0 destr°y the after-product, I ,p^tTon Produce severe and dangerous reaction. At first, after the „ SSiani! Wh m be antiphlogistic and soothing, according to SS When suppuration is set up, it must be° sustained” by f au tP 1 nt Wlth digestive, and strewing it with irritating powders. ctual cttervr'PT1UCt ^ n0t r0™1’ °r lf k be destroyed by the . tics, of vhS’, a ^w growth ensue, it must be destroyed by eschar- I acaltrLSern ? tm Vf 18 best Jt is ^evident that in this i e forgotten ’ f ,e 1 ,e P°WerS and any causal dycrasy must not Ini ’ b m 1 corresP°nding treatment. " "‘m a pretty spacious cnvftv^ t0°tb’ 1*s,r<?ot expand the surrounding socket, and I, * ^ paC'°US C:U,ty- unconnected, however, with the maxillary sinus. Drawing SAKFr. u„d Waltbeb’b Journal, vol. ii. part Hi. p. 387.-VVKrimotn, in same, vol. iii. part i.POLYPS OP THE WOMB AND OF THE VAGINA. 746 the tooth, and removal of the front wall of the socket, are sufficient for the cure. AfU the removal of teeth, the roots of which extend into the maxillary sinus, fistuloi: openings often remain between them, through which occasionally some saltish flui escapes into the mouth ; if left alone, these fistulas are of no consequence. 2366. The same diseased conditions which render the opening of th j maxillary sinus necessary, may also require the frontal sinuses to b u opened, as their mucous membrane is subject to the same changes as tha i of the maxillary sinus. In boring into the frontal sinus, the bone is t be laid bare at that part where it is most expanded, and the external plat | penetrated with a trephine. The after-treatment must be conducted accord- i ing to the nature of the disease, just as after opening the maxillary sinus, ut A peculiar affection of the maxillary sinus must be here mentioned, which has bee «i specially noticed by Dupustren, consisting of a development of a cellulo-fibrous swef 1 ing, enclosed in a proper cyst, besides the mucous lining of the cavity. This turnout of which the consistence varies according to its age, if examined, presents in its structural*! an approach to that of a fibrous polyp, but does not seem to have any great disposition t ^ cancerous degeneration. At first it is little inconvenient; as it grows it distends the wall. < 9C of the sinus, especially in front, and thins them so that they form merely a thin plat which is yielding, gives way to pressure, and by its elasticity rises again with a sortc:| crackling, like that produced by pressing a bladder half filled with air. This symptom which is pathognomic, fades away after repeated examination. A cut from the mint* orbitary hole to the corner of the mouth lays bare the distended wall of the bone, an, with a common bistoury a sufficiently large opening, or even a crucial cut, may b £ made into it. The swelling may be seized with a hook, or with Musecx s forceps, an., -i, easily pulled out. It is, however, very difficult to get out the cyst at the same time, an. : therefore, in most cases, it is necessary to stuff the cavity with lint, and to destroy it b inflammation and suppuration. A moderate degree of pressure will assist the return ta the bony walls to their place (Pigne.) D.—OF POLYPS OF THE WOMB AND OF THE VAGINA. Levret, above cited. ,3 Sur les Polypes de la Matrice et du Vagin; in Mem. de l’Acad. de Chirurg t vol. iii. p. 518. _ i| Herbiniaux, Parallele de diffc'rens instrumens et me'thode_de s’en servir, et dept** tiquer la ligature des Polypes dans la Matrice. A la Haye, 1771. Goertz, Dissert, sistens novum ad ligaturam Polyporum Uteri instrumentuin. 1/831 Waether, De Polypis Uteri; in Ann. Academ. Berol., vol. i. p. 20. 1786. Nissen, Dissert, de Polypis Uteri, novoque ad eorum ligaturam instrumento. Gottat* 1789. . > Non l Stark, Ueber Mutterpolypen und Umkehrung der Gebitrmutter; in Stark s Archiv. fur Geburtshiilfe, u. s.w., vol. i. part iii. . I Heinze, Dissert, de Ortu et Discrimine Polyporum, pnccipue Polyporum UterM Lem, 1790. Zeitmann, Dissert, de Signis et Curatione Polyporum Uteri. Jen®, 1/9 • Bothbarth, Dissert, de Polypis Uteri. Erfurt, 1795. Segaiif, Dissertation sur les Polypes Uterins. Paris, an xii. I Lefaogheux, Sur les Tumours circonscrites et indolentcs du Tissu ccllulaire e Matrice et du Vagin. Paris, 1802. _ . , , Phvsio M Roux, Me'moire sur les Polypes Uterins; in his Melanges de Chirurgie et J logic. IIauk, Ueber Gebitrmutter Polypen ; in Rust’s Magazin, vol. in. P- 263- Mayer, De Polypis Uteri. Berol., 1821. ■ Boivin ET Duges, Traite pratique des Maladies de l’Uterus ct de ses anne p. 333. Paris, 1833. > nnlvps- Hesides which many observations may be collected from writers on n - P°SYMPTOMS OF POLYPS OF THE WOMB. 717 (n) Arclmes Generates de Medecinc, vol. iii. p. 1%. 1838. 2367. Polyps of the womb are formed either in its fundus, its body, or > its neck. In general they resemble each other in having a long pear- > shaped form with a thin neck, in being of a fleshy or fibrous structure 11 and in being covered with a smooth shining skin. Various differences are t however observed, as they are sometimes round with a broad base, have an > uneven, cleft surface, and their internal structure is sometimes more soft -■ ancj sPongy 5 at other times more tough, and sometimes having cavities I: which contain different kinds of substances. Sometimes they are very vascular, and at other times contain few vessels. Their size differs, and n ^ sometimes very great. Mucous polyps are rarely produced. I have seen a polyp, which though rooted in the cavity of the womb itself, hung out two inches below the fissura magna, in structure resembled a mucous polyp, and at its lower edge it had fringed lobes, and an aperture through which a thick probe mio-ht i be passed to its root. ^ 6 .?P°“ K~ p?Iyps in tb? womb>in old women, accompanied with leucorrhcea, but “ wlthout bleedlng> (hypertrophic mucous sacs,) Nivet and Blatin (a) may be consulted. IL 2.3t6'8-, Thf characterizing a polyp of the womb are, at first, very doubtful; whilst small it causes no remarkable inconvenience to the womb. ItAsU increases, it often excites squeamish ness, disposition to vomit, weight ■ an ragging in the loins and region of the sacrum, shooting and itching -tUn the breasts. The walls of the womb are gradually distended by the ^ polyp; its vaginal portion becomes shorter, thicker, and harder, and the I °T p0f10n °f the u<)nib is lai’ger than usual. By the continued growth Bhwf the, TUth of the womb is afc last opened, when an escape of ISt!Uld- and often violent bleeding, takes place, and the polyp1 pro- fe. udes through the mouth, either gradually or suddenly, on every exertion falhng’ OT? t0 St°o1’ and the like’ Pai«s bke labour r 3a*ns, and dragging of the generative organs. If the polyp protrude into I ■ e vagina, it enlarges quickly, causes pressure on the bladder and rec- i'TtLT CunSGqUfnt di*cult7 in voting the urine and stools; the pain | irJerahlWM^ ^Ums becomes greater, and there is often con- I ,f Xb b b eedln°’ ooonrring either of itself, or from any exertion, shaking I hie ,w ff VC- f ,<Be blTlingS tlePe"d »» constriction ivK 5® PflyP su1ffers frorn the mouth of the womb, in consequence of lome m bl°0d CGl GCtS ant thG Vessels bursL The discharged blood is S 2 TS-7ie7 rd’ SOmetimes black, sometimes brownish or watery ex.7s5iv,t fnking * k, ~ rwzs&ijsi 'lun'tlV’a .‘1 C0n81an'l-V dragged and pulled down, and there is, conse- d‘ Icemtion ilTitati°n ^748 SYMPTOMS OF POLYPS OF THE WOMB. 2369. If a polyp form on the neck, or in the neighbourhood of th ( mouth of the womb, it is noticed earlier, as it soon protrudes into th vagina, and does not distend the womb as when rooted in its fundus; i U causes pressure on the bladder and rectum, and rarely bleedings, as it i not constricted by the mouth of the womb; by its weight the womb i pulled and dragged down ; the neck and mouth of the womb often so swellsM that the bound between it and the polyp is completely lost. In conse* n quence of the irritation of the womb kept up by the polyp, scirrhous o steatomatous degenerations may be produced. A polyp arising from the fundus of the womb, when sinking downwards, may becom: $ adherent to the wall of the vagina, and so have two roots; it may, therefore, whei quickly protruding through the external generative organs, evert the womb and th vagina, in consequence of which, according to its seat on the latter, there may b produced a hollow in the rectum, where it corresponds with or on the peritoiueum t where it is attached to the vagina. If the protruded part of the vagina do not differ: ') from the stem of the polyp, it may he tied with it in the operation (a). 2370. The symptoms produced by the development and further pro- ; gress of polyps, may give rise to their being mistaken for pregnancy, ever- sion, and prolapse of the womb, fungous growths, and scirrhous dege-. 1 iterations. 2371. As long as the polyp remains in the cavity of the womb it may < be mistaken for pregnancy; the diagnosis, however, rests on the following j circumstances. In pregnancy the vaginal portion of the womb is only gradually distended ; it is elastic and feels soft, the mouth of the wontb remains closed, and opens only during labour. With polyp the internal mouth of the womb opens without true pains, and remains oftentimes long open, without the vaginal portion being so regularly expanded, without beino- soft and thin, and without the lips of the womb-mouth so com- pletely disappearing. The mouth of the wontb with the polyp is harder, - in pregnancy softer. The menstrual discharge is rarely suppressed wi. polyp, but irregular, more frequent, and not rarely painful; the b 00 L paler, watery, mingled with fibrous parts; and there is, in addition to e. discharge, a mucous ill-smelling fluid, like water in which flesh ins beOTii washed. In pregnancy menstruation occurs only in rare cases, imt is regular, as concerns its coming on and character. The general sJnlP occurring at the beginning of pregnancy diminish and entirely disapi in its progress; but with polyp, on the contrary, theyr increase. . enlargement of the belly in pregnancy is greater and more regu ar, with polyp is more unequal, does not attain the size of pregnancy, depends on the growth of the polyp. The enlargement of the reas __ j not so gradual with polyp of the womb as in pregnancy; they are so ' times full, sometimes flabby, and never so large. To conclude, tlie 71 tinuance of pregnancy is definite, and, at a certain time, the nioveii of the child are perceptible. In mole-pregnancy, the distension o belly and the alteration of the vaginal part of the womb, which s“ and softens, takes place more quickly; the mouth of the womb n closed till the mole is protruded, which happens suddenly and nor g ally; there, also, is not the discharge as with polyp. intruded 2372. As to the mode of distinguishing a polyp which has j ^ through the mouth of the womb from eversion of that organ, i ^ observed that in incomplete eversion, the swelling passing tl B (a) IlKUAKD, (Tlii-se,) Observation* relatives aux l’olypcs de l’Utcrus et a quelques-unes dc des Organes Genito-Urinaires. 1 aris.749 DIAGNOSIS AND CAUSES. mouth is broad above and narrow below; hence also the mouth of the womb is always more open than with polyp, as that has a directly contrary form, being broad below and narrow above. In eversion, which is not of long standing, the replacement of the womb is in general possible, in con- sequence of which the pains are lessened, whilst after such attempts the polyp always protrudes again. The polyp is less sensitive than the everted womb. Eversion usually occurs after a very recent labour; the i P°lyp is more movable than the everted womb, its surface is smooth’ and the bending in of the fundus of the womb may be felt through the walls of the belly, if the eversion be any wise great. Complete eversion re- I sembles polyp in the form of the swelling, as it is narrow above and broad -/< below, but it is surrounded by the mouth of the womb like a fold. With polyp the finger, or a probe, may be passed deeply between it and the I vagina, but it cannot be by the side of the everted womb. The stem of a ' polyp is hard, the upper part of the everted womb is yielding because it [o is hollow. Eversion occurs after a birth. Notwithstanding these different signs, the distinction of polyp from r. everted womb, especially if partial and of long duration, is very difficult so I that the most able practitioner cannot be certain without examining by the ! touch As, however, as has been already noticed, {par. 1287,) the form » as well as the sensibility and mobility of the polyp varies ; both swelling may have a smooth or an irregular surface; the polyp may appear soon • after deli very; examination of the belly affords, in stout persons, no defi- 1 !vr|f ’ ?ld/?,h a P°lyP r.°°ted at the fu^us of the womb, the fundus may be, in its further protrusion, dragged down, and a certain decree of l-a'ml1011 P™duce( Careful observation seems to prove the fact that ' quickly When °nCe P35Sed throuSh the mouth of the womb, grows tnX P? mistaking a polyp which has descended into the vagina for (^ imperfect prolapse of the womb is not very possible, as the polyp is ^ Sf,nSltflve than t.he Protruded womb, has generally a bean- p form, without any opening at its lower part: and when at this nart there ,s even a pit resembling tlTe mouth of the womb, no probec™ be fr )e ,i'"f ”!?“; r;-,'J,a“;nit:,)t 15 impossible with a polyp, though it may I effected with prolapsed womb and the pain thereby relieved If the nger or a probe be introduced between the polyp and the ftm o SatP l’ WhilSt’0" the P'-oiapsyePi,is soon Sed ” S * He dStoE £ S ^ 10 C°mi,lete »f *• -omb ’ wwi 1 ~ utn ot the womb are characterized bv the fanl ° X*Z,ybh^k•bSh?,»!.Wl,tel, com>d“ the P”™ y fifc^rarity’ and pail “’hen touched™"7 ffm“ l'nrdness of the s've11- (a) Chklius ; in Ileidelb. klin. Annnl.TREATMENT OF POLYPS OF THE WOMB 7d0 303. 1 onanism, venereal discharges, and the like, may frequently produce them but more commonly they arise without any such previous ailment; ant they have been noticed even in young girls. Most commonly they occu about the period of the cessation of the menstrual discharge, when th- altered vital condition of the womb favours unnatural productions. They are very rarely seen in old women. 2376. The treatment alone consists in the removal of the polyp bj operation. Only in rare cases has it been noticed that the constriction o the polyp by the mouth of the womb has caused its complete separatioi and cure. The result of the operation is the more favourable in pro portion to the ease with which the stem of the polyp can be got at, am the less thick and firm it be. When there has been for a long time grea loss of blood, other symptoms quickly arise after the operation whicl require particular treatment. So long as the polyp is still not large, it L covered with a membrane connecting it with the womb, and which tear: as the polyp grows. Hence the reason why the operation on large polyp: is commonly attended with slighter symptoms than the smaller; hence after the operation the recurrence of the disease is generally less to bo dreaded than after nasal polyps. _ When there are other organic changes of the womb, scirrhous harden' ing and the like, the prognosis is extremely unfavourable, as after the removal of the polyp it. more quickly terminates fatally. Polyps of theijj womb do not hinder conception, but generally abortion takes place ; preg-. nancy, however, may reach its natural termination. 2377. Of the generally proposed methods for the removal of polyps:’ tying and cutting off are the most proper for those of the womb; pulling or twisting off, and destruction by escharotics, are inapplicable, partly on account of the yielding nature of the parts in which the polyp is rooted^ and partly on account of the condition of the space (1). The operation, can only be undertaken in polyps of the womb when they have protruded through its mouth into the vagina. Before undertaking it a review mu>t be taken of the cause of the disease, and of the patient s constitution. Plence a preparatory treatment is sometimes necessary; for instance, in syphilitic disease by using mercury ; and in those persons who have “f" very much weakened by bleeding, by strengthening remedies, and tne. like. (1) Mayor (a) has vindicated twisting off. 2378. The number of instruments which have been proposed for tym?> polyps of the womb is very great; they may be arranged comprehensive y under the three following heads:— , bv First. The ligature, which is carried round the root of the P°‘Jf ' means of a double tube, or two separate tubes, or stems, connectabe gether, and tightened by means of these tubes. To these belong LE double cylinder (ft), and forceps (c), with the modifications of Keck v, h Laugieu (e), Buttet (/), Contigli (g), and Clarke (ft); aL . f„) Note stir l’Extirpation des Polypes uteri ns par torsion ; in Gazette Medicale de Paris, vol. xu. P'(6)JMem^d"e l’Acad. tie Chlrurg., above cited, ^(O’j'ournal do Mrdedne, vol. xxxii. p. 531, fly* 1—17/0. (rf) Ibid., vol. xxix. p. o-9. (e) Journal de Medecine, _vnl. xxxiii. P 1770 ; vol. xxxv. p. 173. I/‘l. ("ff) Raccoka^di Opuscuolo Medico-^ '°(A^Observations on those OiM-asc^of ^rn*1^ which arc attended by Discharge, with ten plates.751 BY TYING AND BY CUTTING INSTRUMENTS. instrument of Davijd (a), Klett (b), Loeffler (c), Cullerier (d), Goertz (e), and Nissen (f) ; with the alterations of Joerg (g), Meiss- ner (h), and Gooch (i). Second. Tlie loop is applied with the assistance of a loop-drawer around the polyp, and its tying managed with a single tube, or with a loop-tier. Here belong the apparatus of Herbiniaux (j), Stark (k), Desault (/), with Bichat’s modification (m), John Hunter (w), and Ricou (o). Third. The loop applied around the root of the polyp, with a loop- drawer, and tied together by the use of little rings, through which the two ends of the ligature are passed. Such are the rosecrown instrument of Boucher (jo), Loeffler’s alteration (q), Sauter’s (r) combination of it with Ribke’s instrument (s). 2379. Of these several instruments for tying polyps of the womb those only will be here mentioned, as being most suitable, which were employed by Desault, and the tier of Nissen and Ribke. Previous to the opera- tion the rectum must be emptied with a clyster. The patient is to be placed on a bed or table, so as to be in a half lying, half sitting posture, and the perinceum and region of the coccyx exposed. The thighs must be separated by an assistant, and a careful examination made to ascertain the nature and seat of the polyp. 2380. Desault’s apparatus is to be employed as above mentioned {par. 2337.) A pretty strong ligature must be passed through the eye of j a loop-drawer, and to a silver tube somewhat curved forwards, and the end jjj1 ot the ligature fastened on one ring of the silver tube. This and the ! loop-tier are now carried parallel to each other between the swelling and the wall of the womb on that side where there is least resistance, and by l>slightly moving it laterally, carried to the upper part of the stem of the to polyp. That end of the ligature attached to the ring of the tube beino- n loosened, the loop-drawer is held fixed with the left hand, whilst with the . r'ght the tube is carried round the whole swelling and back to the loop- b rawer. The hands are now to be used instead of the instruments, and so » -rossed over each other that the part of the loop which the tube draws with t ^ass over that held by the loop-drawer. The tube is now drawn nf!.\rhilst tke drawer is kePt stea<Jy> the two ends of the thread passed tie opening of a loop-tier, and this pushed up to the root of the go yp, whilst the ends of the thread are held fast, the stem of the loop- rawer then presse(] forward8j the ]igature rem0ved from its aperture, " ™ the drawer removed. The two ends of the ligature are now drawn f ffic,ent]y tight, and fastened to the notch of the loop-tier t • U?. flgD4 a Sj01‘'rur8'9Cl|1’ Bemerkungen, vol. i. ment. chirurg. in qua novum humeri ex articulo exstirpandi methodum, novumque ad ligaturam Polyporum instrumentum proponit. Gryph., 1788- IT**’ VU1- ,v- P- W Memoires de la Societe d’Emulation, an ii. I ab0r Ci1te,1-H""'-ANn P'(») In IIei.t., above cited.' f (*) Above Ji.ecT % i’1'"' ’V P' ’ P‘ 2’ „ W Ml'moire ct Observations sur les Polypes ■ (/) Ahftno * *- tt'rin.s, avec un nouvei instrument pour en faire la Ligature ; in Museum der Heilkunde von der helyetisclien Gesellschaftcorrespondironder Aerzto und Wundaerlze, vol. ii. pi. v. Zurich, 1704. (p) 11 EINSTEIN; in Lodeii's Journal, vol. ii. p. t>26, pi. x. (7) IIufkland’s Journal. 1813 : part iv. p. f>5. (r) von Siehold's Chiron, vol. ii. p. 42U, pi. vii. figs. 1-8. (0 Rust’s Magazin, vol. iii. p. 133. ■^fTnAI,* *inr'hiv1 f!irdleGeburtshr1,fe, vol. iii. 9 ic) vol. iv. p. 308. • y, nnove cited, Ii ^\IAbove cited. % A\\ a"<lll"';b der Krankheiten den Wcibes, ^ ^'p*; 1821. Second Edition. 0 An7‘-' Cite,1> n«- i"vi■ Li- Accr,»nt of the m Q,, ( j\ it" •* viucii. J.onUOI , >{{ lboVt',clt<'d. pi. i-iii. I :o .fcciu.7hiv;c- p.-,52' ng«- 1-iv. I lv»—IIasselukho, Com- culiar to ?J0unt of l*ie most important Diseases : ii Av!l^!7e.n- . l-ondon, 1829.TREATMENT OF POLYS OF THE WOMB 752 This mode of treatment is very worthy of recommendation on account of its ease am certainty. The objection that the ends of the ligature, not being contained in a tub' may be softened and loosened by the continual moisture, is, according to my experieno groundless. If it be desirable to measure each time the degree of tightening, that ma be easily done by means of a stop-wheel placed at the end of the loop-tier 2381. Nissen’s polyp-tier is used in the following manner:—Th. instrument well oiled, and having a thread unlooped attached to it, i passed with the forefinger of the left hand up to the root of the polyp The handle by which the two tubes are connected is now removed, am one tube being held steadily, the other, with its concavity towards th polyp, is carried round it to its fellow, and the two are then connected b; slipping on and pushing forwards the rings, and attaching the haudlc- The ligature is now drawn closely together and fastened ; or it is tightenet with the screw as recommended by Joerg. 2382. In using Ribke’s instrument, the two loop-drawers are intro duced, like the single blades of delivery-forceps, up to the root of th polyp, the stem which holds the two cylinders together is draw’ll out, am then each of the latter is carried round in a half circle till they mee again, and are then fastened together with the stem. The assistant, wh>' has hitherto held the stop-wheel, now presses the knobs to the upper em of the connected cylinders, after which the stilettes in the latter are draw), so far out at the low’er opening that the loop is set free, and the cylinder can be withdrawn. The root of the polyp is now tied and proper!; fastened by the stop-wheel, which is laid on a pad upon the mons J eueru and confined there by a broad cloth around the loins. 2383. The symptoms which may occur after the tie has been made are violent inflammation and fever, pain, spasm, bleedings, and other symptom from pressure of the swelling polyp. In the first case suitable antiphlogistic treatment must be employed ; in spasm, narcotic remedies used, and if » symptoms be not diminished by these, the loop must be slackened a little, the bleeding must be stopped by more tightly tying the ligature, am with astringent injections. On account of the increasing bulk ot the poiy it is generally necessary for the first few days to empty the bladder win the catheter, and the rectum by clysters. . , j 2384. The patient must after the operation keep perfectly quiet in oeu and have a proper diet. Every two days the ligature must be 1 and to prevent the effect of the stinking ichor, repeated mjec l decoctions of aromatic herbs must be employed. When the pc jl dropped off, which depends on the thickness and toughness o 1 ^ and occurs at different periods, either by the continued tightening oi ligature, or on some movement of the patient, the injections nius ^ tinued for some time. Strengthening remedies must also be gi' support the patient’s diminished pow’ers. _ ,-^nuenc When the polyp, after having separated, is still retained, m conf4 of its size, it must be withdrawn with forceps, for which purpose a ^ forceps and much force are often requisite; as happened to ™ case. If bleeding occur on the dropping off the polyp, astrmgen J irri must be used, which are not, however, to be very irritating, or g^ tation of the womb will ensue. If, notwithstanding the repeated ^ ^ of the ligature, the polyp will not separate, which, ^ience o rarely the case, it is advisable, to save the patient the mcon the continued stench, to cut it off below the ligature. {&}BY CUTTING. 753 In large, long-continued and far-extending polyps, it is possible that the fundus of the womb may be dragged down, the ligature must therefore not be tied too high ud : I have related a fatal case of this kind (a). b 1 2385. Cutting off polyps of the womb, the oldest method, is, on account j of the danger following, and the difficulty of stanching the blood, only to ■ be employed in particular cases, for instance : first, when the polyp, after » having been tied fast during several days, has not dropped off, in which case, generally, considerable pain follows every tightening of the liga- : ture; second, when the polyp hangs down, or can easily be drawn out if I its neck can be got at, is thin, and there have been no previous bleeding • f .p when the polyp has produced eversion of the womb, accompanied with dangerous symptoms, which can only be got rid of by the quick removal of the polyp. Siebold (b), however, not only in this, but in all I other cases, prefers cutting off to tying a polyp of the womb, when it has a neck and can be reached, whether it be at the fundus, in the body, or r at the neck of that organ. If in consequence of the breadth of the base ■by which it is attached to the fundus or body of the womb, cutting faff the polyp be not possible, he ties it, for the purpose of contracting ■ the stem, and then cuts it off below the ligature. This mode of pro- in-eeding is less painful, more speedy, unattended with any particular symptoms without fear of bleeding, and even should that happen iJ lnaSuiysSlChe<l 7 ?Ug^lg 5 th® patient is not inconvenienced by a h le i f andi dlSChar£e’ may leave her bed in a few days, and has In reWonfi “ PUrCYTREN’s rePeated operations in this way |-ntir^y confirm Siebold s statements (Pigne') ; and although practice ,ihaV-ie iesult a,fter c/ttirig off the polyp maybe fatai <»>so on the deeding",;) Sh°'VS th&t after tying’ there may be severe> and even fatal ii-mnnS1^1Thf a°f the i"0"1!5 iS t0 bGPerformed in the follow- pemtion fn'rTk 1 pa1tient bein° placed in the same position as for the Pmh°n,f the stone) an assistant presses on the belly to force down the I het; J St an0thr keeps the labia asunder- The polyp being found in ■ f thaf n ’ a speculum Wlth movable branches is introduced, and the walls | I ^passage are expanded with it, so as to isolate the polyp which t i, he poTvteCi ,Wlt 1 Meseux,s forceps and the speculum withdrawn. Whilst II 3 bSr Fr n y draW” down’ mother pair of Museux’s forceps are > J be con! 6d ^,gh?r.1uP and at another diameter, and the drawing down is ' f the rd’ ,W1/ St the pat;eat holds her breath and forces, tilf the neck I ith21 ;eaSSe°f Th P°lyP ^ SGen’ Wh6n * is t0 b* cut off : bx ifeSSfJKSSKS “I, '•# ****** be curved on i* iTSK?& I (4) Handbnrhklln‘ A"'?alcn> above cited. r praiu-nzimm»1r Kr.7ePntniss und Heilnng con<* Edition lHokiran,k,heiten’ ™’- >• P- 710. ' “Ties sur la K deCheooiok, Rc- II la Matrice sur Kmiw 'l,nEl,t°7li<,U0 des po'ypes ’ urlemploxde la Ligature et sur les avantages de la resection de ces tumeurs; in Jour- na3 9c"crttl de Medecine. 1827 ; vol. ci. p. 1. (c) Mayor, above eitml V°L. ix. ” tv , xttiuunimcrii uuo i r<euste Folge, vol. vii. part ii. p. 285. 3 cPOLYPS OF THE VAGINA; OF THE RECTUM. 754 and be provided with long handles (Siebold) (a). The previous applic tion of a ligature around the neck of the polyp, after drawing it dow and before cutting it off, which is recommended by some practitioner Dupuytren and others consider unnecessary. If there be bleeding, co injections should be thrown up, cold applications made to the belly, plugs of lint, strewed with or steeped in astringents, introduced. 2387. Polyps of the vagina, as regards the symptoms they produce, ai the treatment they require, are of less consequence than those of tlj womb. They are soon discovered by examination, and only when ve:' large, cause pressure on the bladder and rectum. Their causes are infland mation, and injury of the vagina, venereal poison, and the like. Their removal is either effected by tying, which is little difficult, ai often done merely with the hand, or by cutting off; and the same rul-i are to be followed as in the operation for polyps of the womb. [Occasionally a vaginal polyp will, from some accidental cause, separate of its oi accord, without any surgical aid ; an instance of this kind occurred to me a ew yeti since.—J. F. S.J F.—OF POLYPS OF THE RECTUM. Desault, above cited, vol. ii. p. 498. 2388. Polyps of the rectum are situated either near the verge of tl j anus, and are then external, or they are deeper seated, and can °n y I protruded in going to stool, or even remain concealed m the gut. are generally round, not large, necked, and of a pale-red colour, times there is only one, but at other times several. , 2389. Those polyps which constantly lie out of the rectum, may grasped with forceps, drawn down, and taken off.at their root vnM stroke of the bistoury, or with the scissors ; and this applies also to s 4 as are situated higher, but can be forced out. If, however, the* po yp ' seated so high, that it will not be forced out of the rectum, the ligature the only remedy, and is best applied according to Desault s metho . XVII.—OF CANCER. (Cancer, Careinoma, Lat ; Krebs, Germ.) Peyrilhe, Dissert, de Cancro. Paris, 1774. Le Dram, Memoire avecun Pre'cis de plusieurs Observations sur le Cancer, de l’Acad. de Chir., vol. iii. p. 1. Jaenisch, Vom Krebse und dessen Heilart. Petersburg, 1,93. ^ Pearson, John, Practical Observations on Cancerous Complaints. London, 8vo. , 179C Whistling, Aeltere und neuere Kurmctlioden des offeuen Krebses. en •> Legaux, Dissert, sur le Cancer. Paris, an xi. . ,0_; Roux, P. S., Memoire sur le Cancer; in his Melanges de Chirurgie et p. 149. Paris, 1809. 8vo. jjLfl Home, Everard, Observations on Cancer connected with Histories ot London, 1805. 8vo. Ferrier, Dissert. Observations et Considerations sur le Cancer, t an., - ^ Bayle, Vues thcoretiques et pratiques sur le Cancer; m Bibliot eque vol. xxxv. Paris, 1812. (a) Mayer, above citeil, figs. i. ii. iii. 7S u tr* ,5H MMuller, Johan, above cited, p. 10. 755 ORIGIN AND SYMPTOMS OF CANCER. Wenzel, C.,Ueber die Induration und das Geschwiir in indurirten Theilen. Mainz, 1815. Abernethy, John, A Classification of Tumours ; in his Surgical Works, vol. ii. p. 68. Edition of 1815. Bayi.e et Cayal, Article Cancer ; in Diet, des Sciences Medicates, vol. iii. p. 537. Scarpa, Antonio, Sullo Scirrho e sul Cancro. Milano, 1821; and Opuscuoli di Chirurgia, vol. i. Pavia, 1825. von Walther, Ueber Verhartung, Scirrhus, harten und weichen Krebs, Medul- larsarkom, Blutschwamm, Teleangiecktasie, und Aneurysma per anastomosin; in his l Jonrnal fur Chirurgie und Augenheilkunde, vol. v. p. 194, p. 567. j Canquoin, Traitement du Cancer. Paris, 1836. 8vo. I Carmichael, Richard, M.D., An Essay on the Effects of Carbonate of Iron upon Cancer; with an Inquiry into the Nature of that Disease. London, 1806. 8vo. Travers, Benjamin, Observations on the Local Diseases termed Malignant • in > MecL-Chir. Trans., vol. xv. 1829. ?' n ^0D,GKI?’ Thomas, M.D., On the Anatomical Character of some Adventitious it Growths; m Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. xv. 1829. |> 2390. That degeneration is called Cancer which is the consequence of * ulceration of a Scirrhus, has a decided disposition to destroy all parts it without distinction of their nature, which never heals, and which having ■ arrived at a certain height, produces peculiar general disturbance. 2391. Iwo distinctions are established in reference to the origin of | cancer; it is either developed from a previously formed scirrhus, or it e irises from some other swelling, or some other ulcer in which the scir- £ dious degeneration has been set up. 2392> 1° the first case different periods may be distinguished in the >j development of the cancer. There arises generally without any known & danse, sometimes in consequence of external violence, a defined tumnnp * * 7 r Recamier, J. C. A., Recbercbes sur le Traitement du Cancer. Paris, 1829. 2 vols. Svo. Cbcvelhxer, Anatomie Pathologique, livr. iv. and viii. Paris, 1829.SYMPTOMS AND KINDS OF CANCER. 756 (a) Scarpa, above cited, p. 29. hering to the surface of the swelling, and the veins upon it swell (Con cecded cancer, Cancer occultus, Lat.; verborgener Krebs, Germ.). T.h neighbouring lymphatic vessels and glands swell, become haul and pair ful, the constitution is more or less disturbed, loss of appetite follows indigestion, wasting, and cachectic earthy countenance. 2394. Under aggravation of the above symptoms the thinned skin a last breaks, and an ichorous, bloody, brownish, or limpid fluid escapes-.| without the bulk of the tumour being in the least diminished.; an ulcer xM formed with hard edges and with irregular surface ; very painful fungous growths spring up ; an excessively stinking ichor is discharged ; th: I neighbouring glands, even those lying beyond the course of the lymph ad swell, and all parts are destroyed by the ulcer spreading in every directio n after they have first assumed a scirrhous state. Bleedings frequently com -) on, the body wastes considerably, the skin assumes a peculiar yellowish* gray colour, the countenance has the characteristic impress of deep-seate w disease; collections of serum are formed in the cellular tissue,, and in th I cavities; peculiar frangibility of the bones; hectic fever with night sweats, and colliquative diarrhoea, and the powers of the patient ar.-r I exhausted. . J 2395. If a scirrhus be examined before any ulceration have take* place, there is found a hard, firm, incompressible substance which, enj into thin layers, is semitransparent, has the consistence of cartilage and f fibro-cartilage to that of lard, with which appearances it in general agrees*] and is composed of two different substances; the one hard and fibrous or the other soft and seemingly inorganized. The fibrous partforms vuho regularity various partitions and cavities, in which is contained a s stance, having usually a pale brownish, sometimes bluis ^ ^ whitish, or reddish colour, similar to hardened albumen. The fibrou l part has sometimes a cartilaginous hardness. But specially 1 ^tions of these two substances very different; sometimes, the fibrou J substance forms as it were the nucleus, from which the> parUtlOMspf ' • in every direction, and on the substance being cut, a radiated appearan 3 L preinted Sometimes the whole swelling forms an homogenous ban lard-like substance, in which no definite tissue can be ^covered^ tween these two extremes there are various links, mere y * » -ggjl the different proportions of the two substances. Sometim^ e - I the different proportions oi me iwu ^uauv. . , . r[rrhu* tumours filled with fluids of different colours are found m a ^ . The scirrhus specially exists either as a tissue different fromt or?J ^ | which it is developed, or from the conversion of sutetance |iseas I organ itself; in the latter case, the boundary between health and cannot be accurately determined. the ]ard | If the tumour be examined in the state of concealed can , e like substance is found harder in the centre than at the c^rcl parts f , here and there it is spotted with red; rough and uneven at son ^ I with cells of different size which are filled with a viscid, as-g « fluid, of a very Hind, ot a very acm. — ye :, , inner van in the interspaces of the fibrous streaks are pale-red ai ! ^e,r bc her 1 ...M, o craft nnrl f.imrous substance ; from which last may covered with a soft and fungous substance ; i™.u ~ ‘ rtions o and there separated, by scratching with the finger-nail, litt 1 the hard-white matter lying beneath (a). pi«monts of scirrhus Microscopic examination presents the following a- • 1 J it :irMULLER’S DEVELOPMENT OF CANCER. 757 i First, cells of very great variety in different cases; simple cell -nuclei : with nuclear corpuscles, sometimes surrounded with very pale cells, some- ; times with completely formed cells, in general rounded, sometimes studded with granules, or having granular contents. Tailed cells are rare, and i when existing, seem rather dependent on the development of the fibres. $ Sometimes there are very characteristic cells, with very thick double walls j and granular contents. Granules and fat-corpuscles are frequently mixed !• together with the cells, sometimes singly, sometimes collected in heaps, I' and sometimes as it appears enclosed in cells. Second, flbres, sometimes ; broad and band-like, sometimes narrow, and not unfrequently elastic fibres. The arrangement of the fibres varies considerably. Third, together with •’ tlie cells ancl fibres there is commonly found as an actual element of scir- . rhus, a mucous fluid, which coagulates with acetic acid and solution of alum. .i!DLLfia)^StlDgU;S.heS four several kinds of Carcinoma, according to the different nature of the tissue. First, Carcinoma simplex ; second, Carcinoma reticulare ; third rCT‘““ alveolare; and, fourth, Carcinoma fasciculatum. Therewith he also reckons Carcinoma, medullare and melanodes. rJlt/th!Tsw,Ple* and fibrosnm, the uneven, generally lobeless substance which motefv pre!G, Whe*? ?Ut trough, a gray basal mass, which seems only re- Tth/b 1 t0 cartilage, and in which there are irregular whitish bands. Scirrhus iSlS'ZZTr eXhib 15 hr anu-there White threads>in which a can be in’ i ndt D i * -°me colourless, whitish, or yellowish contents. It seems to ori- fclrll J thickening of the walls of the milk canals and lymphatic vessels. In tanct rlfl?S rndUitar °rganSi n° such hollow white theads are observed. The sub- JiS! and of a granular gray substance. The former rarely it is also the hed hanH * thro.ugh’ but 1S seen ,on scraping off the gray matter, for which fibres Thn i| d k Preseats a Yery irregular mesh-like tissue of bimdles of tough which hi™ i-fTi y substance is composed entirely of microscopic formative corpuscles ck wbh i r TneXc10cn Wlth each otber’ are transparent and hollow cells or ves - scTubL S nnm i.i °f fr«m 0.00045-0,00120 of a Paris inch in diameter, and are be distinci.kh^dGr C° 1 DOr boding water nor acetic acid. In many of these cells may mheJl alaSr cmer ^ S°,T small7spots> having the appearance of little granules ; in ,Besides thXm 7USC e’ lk<; a nucleus< or little vesicle contained in the cell-corpuscle 3*^ many little knobs of fat are always found scattered in the^hiteTeticldSiwhe j .cat through is distinguished from Carcinoma simplex by gray su£mn™ " df >ngo'shable with the naked eye, which run through the which i, i^ -’ d Tby ltS tendency to form lobes as well also as by the greater bulk and annmicWCS' |nnconsl®tence it sometimes resembles scirrhus, sometimes is softer always remain f“edulIary f^n9u« ! but with this variety of consistence, the structure SC!,aTh=Ttoni‘f‘d V * o(7hS S5rt,SrC"»''^ 'meet more and more durinn- the oou corpuscles. These white corpuscles 'le self-destroying tissue som.Timec • °f deYe.1°Pment. and form an element of ’.'ance or line the interior ^r hi ,• Ple,c,es whlch are enclosed by the other sub- lkeafilm. The cornusd^theUi when(X‘ they detach themselves P pass into the softening and suppuration of the broken (a) Above cited, p. 11.758 MULLER AND HODGKIN’S up surface. With further development the reticulated figures readily flow into irregulai —+V\nr> Vine coma rpcpiTi hi a n op tn flip first annoaranou rv up suna.ce. vv 1111 luruier ucvciopmcut iuc ...w.wvgujai white spots; their appearance then has some resemblance to the first appearance o white tubercles in the gray basal substance. Carcinoma alveolare exhibits an irregular knobby surface, and as the base of the . substance, a tissue of endless, crossing, very firm, white fibres and plates, between whicl simple cells are found, from the size of grains of sand to that of the largest peas which are closed, but frequently communicate with the neighbouring cells, and all con i tain a very viscid pale, very transparent jelly. Under the microscope the little celk; s are seen to enclose still smaller cells, and these again contain still less. On the little; ' cells the dusky-yellowish nucleus of its wall is plainly seen. Many cells also contain r< simple nuclei loose in their interior. The large cells are distinctly fibrous in their walls r and the fibres pass from one cell to another. ** Carcinoma fasciculatum is distinguished by its throughout fibrous structure, whicl may be seen either by breaking or cutting through it. The tumour may be easily ton in the direction of the fibres, is not thereby crumbled, and under the microscope showrtff neither the cell globules of other carcinomata, nor the tailed bodies of the seemingly fibrous medullary fungus. The arrangement of the fibres is either tuft-like, and them the fibres can be torn into simple radical bundles, of which the points are dirwee towards the bottom and their base towards the irregular surface, or the bundles forn different sets of fibrous expansions. Whole masses of fibres form one tuft, othen- different tufts. The large bundles of fibres thrust through each other, as is seen oi tearing them asunder. In this case the swelling readily forms large and small lobe upon the surface and even in the interior. Between the lobes membranous partition! pass, to which the tufts of the fibrous substance are attached. Sometimes it is seen bon the fibrous substance arises on a membranous surface, protrudes like a sheaf, then torn: an arch above and again attaches itself to another membranous wall, t hese lobuiai throughout fibrous tumours often acquire considerable size. But the lobular form ma; be entirely wanting, and the whole swelling consist of a single tuft of radically arrange!, fibres. These swellings are very vascular, and the vessels have a straight course si to the fibres. The substance of the swelling is sometimes transparent like jelly. fibres are throughout pale and transparent; their surface is here and there beset as u tm[DUr.eHotqkin fa) considers scirrhous to originate, like other malignant growths, ^ cysts, either of a simple or compound character, and has given the following e account of their development and progress:— „ <™.tion 0 “ Scirrhous tumours have a more or less rounded form. On making t • them they present various appearances, but are all more or less dividedby sep , affect sometimes a radiated form, and at others a cellular character. Both of these cn^ affect sometimes a radiated torm, and at otners a ceiiumi ~ , diffcr racters have been insisted on by many writers on this subject; but I ^lteveth » ences which have been observed in many instances depended on the B rec on the sections were made. * * * If we carefully dissect down te the smface o the sections were made. " - ~ n we ouemuj . ,.. w U { of these tumours, we shall usually find that it has a capsule or covering, whicb^ ^ believe, generally been supposed to consist of the altered and com i qq,;s jdc: brane of the parts which have given way before the growth of the■ tmnouir. ^ _ bu is probably correct with respect to the unequally thick externali par I t 0f?decay ha: is probably correct with respect to the unequally hulk lxiliiuu pan, ' hai A if we dissect carefully, and examine those tumours m which thedhxd aithar not commenced, or has made very little progress, we shall fin * - . . ^ . . /» ionH pvph ana Oil raiMUK *• . J either not commenced, or has maue very muc T it is next to the mass of the tumour more or less smooth and even, an ‘ "which i*' find that it is reflected over one or more pyriform bodies, attached by a * pnCiosim generally narrow or peduncular, to some part of the circumference o ^vera capsule. Unless the tumour is very small, it is much more common to b rather than a single body of this kind, and as there is often little, if any, the;, ing between them and the enclosing capsule, their form is somewhat mmiitiea J ^ mutual pressure. Sometimes, though more or less closely applied to oac" ° nt]v. b. pedunculated bodies are perfectly detached at their sides, and C3nck.s. A readily traced to the point which forms the common origin of their pw»u ^er other times these bodies are so adherent amongst themselves, and the: men ‘ ^ o inn them is so tender and delicate, that without very great care the arra* ^ their structure may be overlooked, in consequence of the P^d.unc“Kte^e 0f forma broken or torn through in a different direction from that to which their ® tion would naturally aispose them. It must be sufficiently obvious that the apF presented by the section of a tumour, such as I have just described, m 1 hJorncai riall v affected by the direction in which the section is made. If it pass i * (a) Above cited.759 DEVELOPMENT AND PROGRESS OF CANCER. r B«1. I , )>! 1 ■ ' H i tl I >?'■ ii a! K>i Hi' i n> bfi- ■wi It' l».‘ Mfca M': tea iiikt >r »di to: 1» & ly . C *. ‘ <' ‘ ku . r!* i vj a- ■ bK<; If 1 a ria nh rt. hjfc- VI 1 r* <fl Bo «• Vi- fait to the point at which the pyriform bodies are attached to the enclosing cyst, it must nearly correspond with the direction which some of these bodies take towards the circumference, and these edges will consequently be seen in the form of radiating lines. On the other hand, if the section be made more or less nearly transversely to the axes of these bodies, their section will convey the idea of cells of various shapes. If we continue dissecting and raising the outer cyst, forming the reflected membrane which covers the radiating pedunculated bodies, we shall generally find that on one or more sides it dips down deeply into the mass of the tumour, and forms a part of the septum which separates the one packet of pedunculated bodies from the others, which generally concur to form the mass of the tumour; for it comparatively rarely happens that the tumour is composed of a single cyst filled with peduuculated bodies. On examining the different encysted packets of pedunculated bodies which compose the tumour, we shall often find some indication of their having taken their origin from nearly the same spot, which is gene- rally the most indurated part of the tumour. We may likewise observe that the different secondary tumours, or encysted bundles of pedunculated bodies, are in very different stages of progress. In those in which the internal growth is most active, we shall find that a process has taken place perfectly similar to that which I described as oc- curring in ovarian tumours when the development of the contained cygts produced the hernia or rupture of the containing one. The secondary cyst or cysts, which make their way through the containing one, rapidly advance when they are free from the restraint which its pressure afforded, and thus constitute another tumour, which adds to the original mass. If we examine the structure of this new tumour, we shall find that the subordi- nate growths of which it is composed, radiate from the point at which this tumour made its escape from the original one. At the same time that the escaped cyst or cysts acquire their more rapid growth, they often acquire a new character with respect to their consistence, which is generally much more soft and tender. * * * Those parts of the tumours in which the rapid and unrestrained growth is most remarkable, are generally situated near the circumference, where they are at once both exempt from the restraint of mutual pressure, and receive more abundant supply of nourishment from me surrounding natural structures. A marked difference exists between those just described, and others in which development has been restrained, or vitality lost by pres- sure, and consequent defective supply of nutrient matter. I have already explained the mode in which these effects are brought about in those ovarian tumours in which the secondary cysts are thickly crowded and attached by very narrow peduncles. Pre- cisely the same process takes place in the tumours of which I am now speaking; and when we make a section through one of them, which happens to be composed of many secondary tumours, and which consequently presents many centres of radiation, we shall often find that the penduculated bodies connected with one or more of these centres have lost their vitality by a natural strangulation or ligature, and also that the imme- tately adjoining parts which yet retain their vitality, irritated by that which has now acquired the character of a foreign body, are brought into a state of inflammation. The result of this compound action is the formation of a cavity filled with broken down and softened matter of a peculiar character, intermediate between suppuration and gangrene. ms process very frequently takes place before the exterior of the tumours exhibits any symptom of irritation or inflammation, and to my mind, very satisfactorily accounts or that disposition to central softening and decay, on which Laennec, Wabdrop, and wme others, have so forcibly insisted as characterizing the progress of heterologue ueposus. At the same time, I think I am correct in stating, that for the production of mis form of gangrene or softening, the supply of nourishment should be pretty promptly sl_ ? fly die operation of the natural ligature. When the process proceeds more R.r„ 1 le parts which are under its influence gradually acquire an increasingly dense unmvY6’.- ultimately ^coming penetrated by earthy matter, are allowed to remain dim;.-uC ,V8 °f ?er,°us ,mtatlon> notwithstanding their deteriorated organization and devel 'n ®Uppl7 of n°urishment. * * * Such tumours in the course of their thiohnn;mentcP, UCe’ by ,l.he lrntatI°n which they excite, a greater or less degree of ternalin ?•! -the surroullding cellular structure, and sooner or later become visible ex- thiS dilating the integuments which are stretched over them. The points at which rationtn0," “ the most considerable are inflamed, the inflammation proceeds to ulce- thus rL!' iC tumou.r either sprouts luxuriantly at the part from which the pressure is ‘‘Thmr>Ie^’ •>r I)a.rtIclPates ,n the ulcerative process. ■itsram,e,.,V CCIi jS universally described as presenting elevated and everted edges, while name of a'lli depressed central portion is bathed by an unhealthy secretion, to which the Prodimmi ; caiJ scarc'e*.y be applied. The mechanism by which this peculiar ulcer is i well worthy of attention. I have shown that at the external part of the760 SECONDARY DEVELOPMENT OF CANCER. tumour its growth is most luxuriant, both from the want of pressure, and from th< increased supply of nourishment. This will explain why the circumference of the tumour is the most elevated. The central parts, on the other hand, have not only to encounter the pressure which they sustain from the surrounding parts of the tumour and to suffer the diminished supply of nourishment which this pressure occasions, bus moreover, ulceration having removed the integuments, all supply of nourishment from the surrounding natural structures is neoessarily cut off. The depth and irregularity of the central part of the ulcer is often further promoted by a communication being formed between this part of the ulcer and a eavity commenced and produced on the -• interior of the tumour by the process heretofore described.” (p. 294-302)]. “ True scirrhous tumours,” Hodgkin further remarks, “ appear sometimes to depend on a single primary tumour; at other times, several may be satisfactorily made out. That part of the tumour which appears to have been the common origin of the primary cysts, where there are more than one, or from which the contained pedunculated bodies radiate, when there is only a single primary tumour, is, in general, the most indurated portion, and is, at the same time, the most indistinct in its structure. When examined ■' externally, after the surrounding natural structures have been carefully dissected off, this part of the tumour is found to be the most irregular, has a somewhat corrugated appear-. 1 ance, and suggests the idea of its having been the sort of root by which the adventitious growth was implanted on the natural structures. The radiated appearance so strongly insisted on by most authors who have described scirrhous tumours, and the rationale of which I trust I have shown, is particularly conspicuous when the section passes through, this point. The fluid part of a true scirrhous tumour bears in general a very small; proportion to the rest of the structure, it has a viscous or mucous character, more especially where softening has not taken place ; but where this is going on it assumes the: character of an offensive ichorous discharge, and acrid and highly deleterious qualities- have by some been ascribed to it. The process of softening sometimes commences inter- nally at one point, at other times in several small isolated points; in others, again, the ulce- ration through the integuments is the first part of the process of decay.” (p. 323-25.)] j 2396. The secondary development of cancerous ulceration may occur from venereal, herpetic, scrofulous, and other sores, as well also as from different kinds of growths, condylomata, warts, and polyps, which are not originally carcinomatous, but by irritating treatment and the like, pass into a scirrhous condition. 2397. Cancer does not appear to be primarily developed in all tissues: at least, the muscles of locomotion, the serous membranes, cartilage, and tendon, are not originally attacked by it. The skin, the cellular tissue, thei secerning and lymphatic glands, the mucous membranes; the nerves and ■ bones appear to be the only tissues capable of an original development of cancer. This disease also arises more frequently in some organs than others; it is most commonly seen in the gland of the breast, in the testicle, i on the womb, on the lips, the tongue, the eye, on the penis, the clitoris, and the like. The spreading of the disease to the neighbouring parts appears also proportional to their nature; the cellular tissue and skin covering the tumour are first attacked and destroyed, even before t e tumour adheres to the underlying muscles, as for instance, in cancer of to® breast. The serous membranes only become attacked at. a later peri The bones for a long while withstand the destruction ; however, they are eaten into and at last destroyed, as well, indeed, as the vessels which are attacked latest, though, however, yielding to destruction, as the often occurring bleedings prove. When the disease has been still longer pro- tracted, the lymphatic glands which are in relation to the original sctrrnm* become affected ; sometimes this happens even at the onset, sometimes on y in the latter stage of the disease. ^ Walther (a) has disproved by cases, Scarpa’s assertion, that true scirrhus neve occurs primarily iu a lymphatic gland. (a) Above cited, p. 202. n e a l :fi *- J s i * •i lift tit® - idc rtf 'mii ■id U < 'use Sis nil it, ai i« a .9 : • TiVS M lift ■As 8 •h f q? tVt o«DIAGNOSIS AND PROGNOSIS OF SCIRRHOUS TUMOURS. 761 2398. The symptoms which cancer presents in its origin and course are very different, and seem to depend on the difference of constitution, of the mischief producing it, and of the tissue attacked by it, as has been already noticed in the special consideration of the subject, although a definite causal relation in this respect cannot always be determined. Cancer is often excessively destructive, and eating, surrounded with hard edges, and sometimes accompanied with fungous growths. The former kind seems to be peculiar rather to old persons, to sanguineous and choleric temperaments; whilst the latter occurs in young persons and phlegmatic constitutions. Sometimes the course of the cancer is extremely quick, a large strip of the skin is suddenly destroyed, and the greater part of the cancerous swelling bursts through the turning out of the edges of the skin. In other cases the course of the cancer is tedious, the ulceration seems determined after the bursting of the swelling; the edges of the skin turn inwards, the discharge of ichor is slight, and the disease may have long existed before it spreads. The mischievous influence of cancer upon the constitution also varies according to its seat in different organs. The general symptoms of cancerous dyscrasy often set in early, before softening and ulceration; often it appears when there has been already farspreadin* destruction of the scirrhous part. Alibert (a) has laid down six different kinds of cancer; first, Cancer funqoides, common cancer; second,, Cancer terebrans, cancer of the skin ; third, Cancer eburneus, iard like ivory ; fourth, Cancer globosus, presenting a roundish swelling, usually painless, err!.!'0 61 bIack,sh colour and generally, not confined to one spot, but affecting large in »iT <!" t lC lcad’ ^eet> an(l so 'on 5 fifth, Cancer anthracinus, arising with a black spot in the skin, accompanied with a painful itching, and, as it enlarges, a mulberry-like knnKeSCe£C(LnSeSj0Ut of bt ’ s*xtb’ Cancer melaeneus, tuberosus, taking its origin from the 'tissue hlCh are developed more or less numerously, and of different size in the cellular •u?9i9mThe dia9nosis of scirrhous tumours is frequently accompanied with difficulty. When the skin covering the swelling is puckered, has a oark-Ieaden colour, a knotty and irregular surface; when sometimes there is lancinating pain in the tumour, and it is firmly attached to the neigh- ounng parts, there can indeed be no doubt of the scirrhous nature of the welling. But the hardness and condition of the surface of scirrhus often ■ anes, and may be equally present in swellings of other kind. In many stances scirrhus is movable, not connected with the underlying parts Painless, and the skin often not at all altered. The disposition of scirrhus run into cancer, usually given as a mark of distinction from benio-nant sa™?i!10n’ Cann0t be dec5ded beforehand ; this transition is not even neces- whTch S ,’ a”‘ ”?t U”,5raTJ<;rltIyJiepe,n,ls 0,1 aed,lcmal influences, to acquire &*"*“» d»« "ot, in general, easily acE ! T swe l,ngs ll° ! “<1 tire latter do not readily neiahlL, • . h.eavm,ess' "or they the disposition to draw the ■ke weSift "lt0 ltT Sa“'C metamorphosis. Examination of tiea ate the ™ rem°Val g',T “ d'5tU,ct emanation of its nature, as T, i, “T” of.a !ke removal, which, indeed, is no such Ll T, ,aT “ ° *0 ITT Th? emreerous sore itself has be possible vvitl c arac eristic mark that a mistake may not sometimes Centimes will \ '• ne^ecto( syphilitic or scrofulous ulcers, as these, 18 cancerous U Tein.^ actua-by cancerous, present the same symptoms res. In these cases, the improvement or injury effected by (a) Nosologic Naturello.DIAGNOSIS OF SCIRRHUS AND MEDULLARY FUNGUS. 762 (n) Above cited. anti-syphilitic or anti-scrofulous treatment, as well also, as the circumstanc | that in cancerous sores, the pain is alone diminished by softening at soothing remedies, but increased by all irritants, will direct the prat titioner. Scarpa (a), who commonly applies the term scrofulous or strumous tumour to a gre' extent, and also refers to cases which must manifestly be reckoned with medullary funyu states the following, as distinguishing characters between it and scirrhus. Scrofula rare! attacks the external conglomerated, but usually the lymphatic glands, and in genera several of them at the same time, and in different parts of the body; there may be ab an existing scrofulous habit. The hardness of the scrofulous tumour is regular and fla and different from the peculiar hardness of scirrhus. The scrofulous tumour, from tl first, produces a wearing, numbing, heavy pain. Scirrhus only attacks persons «• advanced age, rigid fibre, and sanguineo-choleric temperament, in whom, if there l suspicion of a dyscrasy, it is not that of scrofula ; scirrhus appears alone, grows si owl; and scarcely perceptibly in every direction, is not sensitive, and when long existent, k in general, knots on the surface, and is adherent to the skin in many places. Whe stabbing pains come on in scirrhus, it no longer increases, indeed, even contracts, with hardness, from which it may he said, it is disposed to dryness. In injecting a st rumcm gland, the fluid at first passes freely, hut suddenly runs out, because the vessels are ton When cut through, such gland presents a compact very vascular substance, penetrate; with alhumiuous fluid, which sometimes, though rarely, is mixed with a fatty, granular or whey-like matter. Between the bodies of the strumous glands, and their externa covering, some trace of coagulable lymph is always found, which favours adhesion; br this is also often in the interior. In scirrhus, the injection penetrates only into th principal arterial trunks. In maceration, the substance of scirrhus retains the peculii hardness of softened cartilage, whilst strumous glands dissolve into a soft, fungous, fring; substance [The following are the diagnostic characters given by Hodgkin, of scirrhus am medullary fungus, or fungoid 'disease, as he calls the latter. “ One of the most striking features which distinguishes the fungoid disease from tru scirrhus, is to be found in the extent and rapidity of the development of fungoie tumours. Whilst, as has been seen, the true scirrhus often remains for a eonsiderabk length of time in a chronic and indolent state, and after a growth of some years produce a tumour of only a moderate size, the fungoid tumour in the space of a few weeks » sometimes seen to attain to a prodigious size, and to pass through all the stages belong to it in common with the other members of the same family of adventitiooi' structures. Whilst true scirrhus is almost exclusively the disease of advanced life, «>' fungoid disease makes its appearance in individuals of every age; but its most formi ; able and extensive ravages are seen in the young. Whilst in true scirrhus the matter forms a very inconsiderable and scarcely notable part ol the structure, *p fungoid tumour it is frequently pretty abundant, presents a great variety in its chara ters, and is often collected in cavities of considerable size. In the scirrhous turnon » peculiar mode of formation I have pointed out, must often be inferred bj a’1 t. guided by faint and partial traces; but in the fungoid disease we meet wi i unequivocal manifestations, which almost speak for themselves. In true setrr us,> traces of vascularity are very faint, but in the fungoid disease, tlm adventitious ^ branes possess a higher and preternatural degree of vascularity. 1 lie vessels see ramifying in them, are not only numerous, hut large. By some they have Ht ,; . sidered principally arterial; by others venous. I will not attempt to decide o^ class of vessels they are most allied. They appear to consist of the capiuary vc— ' Bichat on a large scale; and as we sometimes meet with these membranes ol a s and arterial red, and at other times of a venous or livid hue, it seems Jjrooa.)_ hjch accidental or fortuitous circumstances have the principal share in determining11 , class of vessels these capillaries should most incline. These newly-formed ^ though large and numerous, are extremely weak and tender, and derive support from the structure through which they ramify, or by which they art #nd hence they areliable to give way at numerous points, whence proceed more ireq the extensive hemorrhages which so often characterize these tumours, and have i term of fungus hamatodcs, which has not inaptly been applied to many ot wen. ^ ^ times the hemorrhage from these vessels produces an effusion ’f/ ’J ^aIld\listenc)s membrane reflected over an inferior order of pedunculated cysts or bodies, a if.CHEMICAL COMPOSITION OF SCIRRHUS—SKIN CANCER. 763 3 1 si- r s Mr iS < 4 jii }|i 4 ) it : fr tf yf■ ' 14* >33 Bt|! ml- »■ P*1 i «> h. sf Kffi id' |HS Mi Jr.V l(2 tK> ' lit >o : si- J* bit ato. [TO' b ■ mu & aft. n! fit lit.;; in 0/: 1 9fi it into a cavity filled with blood, the characters of which will vary according to the time which has elapsed between its effusion and the making of the examination. At other times the effused blood infiltrates the more solid parts of the tumour, and produces an appearance which by Laennec has been well compared to an apoplectic clot. The more solid parts of the tumour differ in a marked manner from that which composes the scirrhous tumour. In this disease, the secondary cysts, which are often of large size, generally become filled with a material which at first bears a considerable resem- blance to tender or feebly coagulated fibrin or plastic lymph. Into this substance new vessels speedily shoot; but being neither susceptible of perfect organization, nor calcu- lated to remain inert and dormant, it speedily, but gradually loses its vitality, and, like other transparent parts in which such a change is effected, gradually becomes opaque, and bears, in consistence and appearance, a-close resemblance to the substance of the brain of a child; hence the terms, cerebriform cancer, encephaloid tumour and medullar y sarcoma. * * * Although in fungoid disease, the solid part of the tumour often bears a striking resemblance to cerebral substance, we frequently find it, on the one hand, deviating into a much more firm material, and, on the other hand, into one of a softer and grumous consistence. Sometimes it has a minutely foliated structure of a pearly white colour. When the diseased structure has completely lost its vitality, it breaks down into a variously discoloured pultaceous grumous mass, in which the remains of the membranes of the secondary cysts and their vessels may often be detected. Although in a recently formed tumour, or in the newer parts of an older one the traces of that mode of formation on which I have insisted are sufficiently evident” they are very much lost or obscured, as the progress of decay advances. It is also at times difficult to distinguish it when the tumour has only advanced to the stage of opacity, provided the substance of the tumour be very uniform, and the membranous parts not only very thin and tender, but adherent amongst themselves and to the eon- tamed substance.” (p. 333-37.) The following is the analysis of scirrhus by Fov («) :— Albumen . White fatty matter Red . . . . Osmazome . , Fibrin Water . . , Oxide of iron 42,00 5,00 3,25 0,00 5,85 5,00 1,65 Subphosphate of lime . (soda . . Carbonates of •; lime . . I magnesia Hydrochlorates of i pojas'h (soda Tartrate of soda 16,60 5,00 6,60 0,85 4,10 3,25 0,85 t0 w ana,ySLS of. medullary fungus (p. 719) that scirrhus Phate of if™ ' th fi.rst *hree ^stances, that it has no osmazome ; that the subphos- &*!?£ “ ; ”d thM ,hs rf ,be sa‘“is rofn ^uncer ^ie shin arises from true scirrhus, which appears as a cenef G7!ul0nig- flattened firm swelling, also from warts and other excres- eS ^ Skrn’ sometimes from dark red, blackish spots, or from scurfy SSllT8' i T7 occur,on a11 Parts of the surface of the body, but J£Llly -lue faC6’ °n thG n°Se’ °n the 1!P8’ and on the organs of biese nan ’ ^ °n a?C?U?t °f the peculiar sensibility of tiie skin on At first ’ 0rieC.TV 1S,here 80 much affected by external influences notirnL T^C,al ulcer forms’ which enlarges, becomes painful, and is quick ParnderJe]bJ-anytreTiedy‘ ^ pro/ress is sometimes slow, sometimes i SeVerity °f the Pain and the vioI^nce of the remainar« loD|.confined to one definite spot, and surface !?T"i ’ th surroundir>g skin is sometimes but little changed its reproduced “oM?!*“T* ^ a d>* ^ayish crust, uS t on the edge of the X rcm°vIed- ^8,800,1 as these ulcers take effect make m,ick P,.the nose.’ the eyebd, the anus, or the urethra, they tion of strucnirf reSS’l lnCrT6 1Q de.pth’ destr°y a]1 parts without distinct atingpain and bv thet^ C|,aract!nfed by their condition, by the lancin- ’ ^ e n’fection of the neighbouring glands. Whilst the (a) Archives Generals* dc Medocinc, vol. xvii. p. 185.764 CANCER IN NERVES; ulcers are still small, they are generally only made worse by commoj treatment. They are frequently found existing at the same time wit! external and internal cancerous disease. Ulcers, specially on the face, and wings of the nose, and the like, which without pair without a hard base, without everted hard edges, without fungous growths, withou secretion of ichor, spread in all directions, and destroy the parts without distinction o their organization, without our knowing where they will go, have, in common witl , cancer, only the destructive spreading, and the general circumstance that they car ordinarily he brought to heal, only by destroying their surface. These are phagedeni. ulcers, stinking, eating, tettery sores, and form a contrast with the scabby Herpes exedens which on the face often causes the most frightful destruction, and in general can only b made to heal by destroying the diseased portion of skin. 2401. Cancer in glands always begins as scirrhus, and presents th( symptoms above described (par. 2392.) 2402. Cancer in mucous membranes is developed either in form o: polyps, which are hard, uneven, dusky, red, and painful; often bleed o: themselves, or, on the slightest movement; ulcerate quickly ; exhibit the same symptoms as a cancerous ulcer, and on examination, present the same condition as scirrhus; or, under the form of hard, wart-like excrescences*! or as hardening of the mucous membrane, which runs into ulceration. 2403. Cancer in the bones shows itself as osteosarcoma, or osteostea- toma ; and these tumours may have primarily a scirrhous condition, or the cancerous nature may be developed in them at a later period. 2404. Cancer of the nerves exists as a hard firm swelling, which inter- nally shows its scirrhous nature, and seems to belong to the neurilema rather than to the medullary substance. Sometimes the tumour is seated- on a stalk with which the neurilema is confluent; sometimes it is formed; by the swelling of the nerve itself. Their size varies from that of a pea to that of a nut, and larger. These swellings arise sometimes of them- selves, sometimes after external violence, most commonly on the super- ficial nerves of the upper limbs. They increase slowly, feel hardish, are tense, seem often filled witli fluid ; they are very painful, specially on motion, and particularly on being moved from above downwards ; a sudden movement of the swelling in this direction produces on the bnurn and nervous system a sensation like that of an electric shoe'• tumour adheres to the neighbouring parts, and draws them into the sam diseased condition. Not all tumours of nerves have this cancerous character. They are often mere c— sequences of previous inflammation, and originate in increased and a teru a they are often formed by unnatural exudation, in which ease examina - i:ve cavity, of which the walls are the neurilema, filled with thin, coagulable ’ # the serum of the blood; or between the nervous threads, which are presswis T“'ds softish, but constantly becoming firmer substance is formed ; or in the “erV w themselves, oblong vesicles are formed, which at first are soft and trail.p ’ afterwards become harder, and by their increasing size, affect;the whole subst. jt the nerve, and the nerve above penetrates into the swelling, and below passe. Their size varies from that of a pea to that ofa nut, and bigger. I have seen a in the lower third of the thigh, on the ischiatic nerve, as large as a small melon, ^ had proceeded from the nervous mass itself, and was covered with MurUem characteristic of these tumours is always great painfulness on examining an them with the finger ; they however cause, especially when seated on l^®”^r^10tion. pain on moving the part, even without displacement, espec.^ aC. The pain is very severe, radiating in the course of the nerve, mlV * ain than a companied with cramp and convulsions of the part. Sometimes thereis hs p ^ ^ sensation of formication, and going to sleep, or even a palsied state ot P The1- re mo va^o f fl'ie tumour is the only remedy ; destructive remedies of all kinds liJ « M vi v ■ SR# a*. ,h Y 0.TUMOURS ON NERVES. 765 useless, and escharotics act injuriously. The removal consists in laying bare the swelling, and where it protrudes from the nerve, and is separable from it, in cutting it off. If tliis be not possible, or the tumour spring from the nerve itself, then the nerve must be cut through, first above, and then below the tumour, and the intermediate portion, together with the swelling, removed. Small swellings on the nerves of the skin may be taken away with the corresponding piece of skin. In large tumours of principal nerves, as in the case of the ischiatic nerve which I have mentioned, amputation is the only remedy. [I am doubtful whether the following cases mentioned by Cheselden (a) be tumours on the small branches of nerves; but the symptoms scarcely permit them to be con- sidered any other“ Immediately under the skin, upon the shin-bone, I have twice seen,” says he, “ little tumours, less than a pea, round and exceeding hard, and so painful that both cases were judged to be cancerous; they were cured by extirpating the tumour. But what was more extraordinary was a tumour of this kind under the skin of the buttock, small as a pin’s head, yet so painful that the least touch was insup- portable, and the skin for half an inch round was emaciated; this, too, I extirpated, with so much of the skin as was emaciated, and some fat. The patient, who before the operation could not endure to set his leg to the ground, nor turn on his bed without exquisite pain, grew immediately easy, walked to his bed without any complaint and was soon cured.” (p. 136.) There is in the Museum at St. Thomas’s a fine example of a tumour in the popliteal nerve of a man, which caused such severe pain and tenderness, with occasional spasm, in the limb, that amputation was performed by Astley Cooper. The tumour is about the size of a walnut, whitish and hard, and of a somewhat scirrhous character; it seemed to have formed amid the cords of the nerve, which do not appear to enter it, but are expanded over its surface. Liston (6) observes, that “these tumours (of nerves) vary in structure; they consist a cheesy or albuminous deposit in the neurilema; sometimes they are hard, fibrinous or earthy, or again, their section presents a brainlike and bloody mixture.” And he mentions a case in which the tumour, soft and bloody, was situated “ in the popliteal space, grew rapidly to the size of a cricket-ball, and impeded the motions of the limb. n pursuing the dissection, the tibial nerve was found intimately connected with the growth, the fibnlla stretched upon its sheath, and entering into its substance. The nerve r“ ^across above and below, and the whole mass extirpated unbroken and entire 1 he removal of the tumour from the ham, with at least three inches of the tibial’ fin„.e’ was no.t fo.r arj instant followed by the slightest deprivation of either sensation or fhe frn°f TJT ln theJ.™b and foot” Wllilst in tllc hospital, a tumour was found on hnt !e i 01 the same «“gh 1 an inflammatory swelling took place there and suppurated the n,?-Inp rema'ned- “Within six months after the wound in the ham had healed in thf wLretUJ?er -Wlt r an ei?ormously swollen limb, and a large elastic morbid mass The nr-)a-CkiP*art °f lt; fl'°m t lIS a bleeding fungus was protruded, and he soon died and “T S0ft ?nd bloody 5 the one from the fore part of the thigh ovoid fibrinouf tbifr * ^ \ ®gg’ mv0. ved the antenor C1'ural nerve, and was apparently character if dlseased-structure, which was reproduced in the popliteal space, had all the occasionalfunyus h&>natodes. (pp. 350, 351.) Tumours not malignant have been occasionally removed from nerves with success. fleSeTi/lhere con7.e“ient to notice the formation of Tumours on the extremities of the have jfn wbicb occasionally, though rarely, occur, and I do not recollect to “ither W f rC hr* two,or tbree sueh cases- At an indefinite period after amputation become paln^and^houir^'• beaded’ ^ beginS’ without any aPParent cause, to 1 conicaf form ’tE d gb ll had previously been well shaped, it now begins to assume s generally a i’ittu v® bo,ne sti.ck.s out covered only by the scar, which Pitched J . andtbe sk"! above u 1S extremely tender and painful, when •oneproiecte hnXf L(i? ln n0t,nng t},U.R condition> says Sometimes, Z spiculumof )f thcPlimh ttl ' iT 7’ generally taking the direction of the artery, rein, and nerves ’ound beoCfToen,mphiEated With,the b°^ deposit5 aad sometimes 1 Imve >nd connected w th i mnLiF ’ Wlt.havery sh?.r? P°lnt> takb‘g aa oblique direction, ;o,irce of great^ ufferir to ;E0CCa!J0I,]ngTm0^id changes in its fibres! and being a P-eatly enfai iod -It pabent> ,In a11 such stumps I have found the nerves generally firrnly adherent g'^mf tbem a gangliouic appearance, and picula of brae” fn ?aiV t *EUrfaCC °f the s‘umP> and frequently in union with ^ foe two cases which I have had the opportunity of ^enth EUitten™maf. Ul° HUman C°dy' 8v°' W Practical Surgery. Fourth Edition, 1846. (c) Med.-Chir. Trails., vol. xvi.TUMOURS ON NERVES. 766 dissecting, there was certainly no bony spiculum irritating the nerve, and there did not appear any satisfactory reason why its enlargement should have taken place. The tumours seemed to be caused by interstitial deposit of fibrinous matter among the fibrils of the nerves, which were principally spread out on their surface. Astley.- c Cooper amputated his case at the shoulder-joint, and there was no recurrence of the symptoms. Henry Cline thought that the retraction of the stump depended on the irritation of the diseased ends of the nerves, and that if these were removed, ampu- ; tation would not be needed. He, therefore, cut through the skin over the swellings,.- i. also through the nervous trunks above them, and left the bone and other parts un- disturbed. The result proved the justness of his opinion. There was no recurrences« of swelling of the nerves, nor pain, and the stump gradually filled out, ceased to be conical, and resumed the ordinary appearance. From comparison of these two> modes of practice, I should not think it warrantable to perform a second amputation at any distance above the stump ; I should be inclined to follow Henry Cline’s method; d and if there were reason to think this could not be satisfactorily managed, I should 1 merely amputate so high above the nervous tumours as would appear necessary to. i ensure cutting through the healthy nerve. I have an indistinct remembrance that Tyrrell pursued the latter practice in one instance successfully, but I have not any note of it, so that I mention it with doubt. j I Sometimes, however, neither of these methods are of any permanent service, as the: 1 painful affection of the nerves is not confined to their extremities. A remarkable case, s of this kind is mentioned by Mayo (a), in which, on account of this condition, ampu- i tation was performed a second time. “ On examination, the sciatic nerve and the- ! saphenous nerve were found to terminate in large callous bulbs. In the second operas { tion, care was taken to draw out and remove a considerable portion of the sciatic nerve,': * which, retracting, lay well covered among the muscles. Nevertheless, when the stump: 1 had nearly healed, the old pain again commenced.” (p. 140.) He afterwards cut down' :> on the sciatic nerve, where covered by the lower edge of the m. glutceus maximus,. t divided and removed a portion of it, but with only temporary benefit. He thought that amputation at the hip-joint might possibly have cured this, as amputation at the shoulder- < joint had put an end to a similar neuralgia in the fore-arm, which had been unsuccess-- « fully amputated a second time. I must confess I should feel little disposed to perform- 1 a third amputation in a case of this kind.—J. F. S. J The following writers may be consulted on tumours of the nerves:— Viel-IIautmernil, Considerations generales sur le Cancer. Paris, 1807. Alexander, Dissert, de Tumoribus Nervorum. Ludg. Bat., 1810. Spangenberc, Ueber Nervenanschwellungeu ; in Horn’s Archiv., vol. v. p. 306. Neumann, Geschichte einer Nervenanschwellung ; in von Siebold’s Sanimlunf s seltener cliirurg. Beobacht., vol. i. p. 54. Weinhold, Ideen fiber die abnorme Metamorpliosen der ITighmorshokle, p. 184. Aronsoun, J. L., Observations sur les Tumeurs developpees dans les Nerfs.; avec fig i col. Strasbourg, 1822. 4to. Cuelius ; in Ileidlb. klinisch. Annalen, vol. ii. Wood, William, Observations on Neuroma, with cases, &c.; in Transact, o Med.-Chir. of Edinburgh, vol. iii. p. 367. Baumeister, Dissert, de Tumoribus Nervorum. Bonn®, 1833. FIasler, Dissert, de Neuromate. Turici, 1835. 1 Struck, Dissert, sistens observationem Fungi medullaris Nervi roediani. wj'J phi®, 1836. , . if Knoblauch, A., Dissert, de Neuromate, et gaugliis accessoriis veris adjecto cuj vis casu novo atque insigui. Francof. ad M., 1843. liaTW 2405. Cancer is a disease of specific character, depending on a P^Y ■ 1 disposition, the nature of which is entirely unknown ; it may be asse to be hereditary, in different degrees, in one and the same person, an ^ - different periods. This disposition is the cause why the treating a cancer is ordinarily without benefit, why the disease appears m .; parts at once, and why even the early removal of scirrhous swe 8 (n) Outlines of Human Pathology. London, 1827. 8vo.CAUSES AND PROGNOSIS OF SCIRRHUS AND CANCER. 767 [ 6 usually unsuccessful. In the progress of the disease a peculiar dyscrasy (par. 2394) is set up by the absorption of the matter produced in the diseased organ. Opinions upon the causal nature of cancer are different. Some denying a peculiar disposition, consider cancer to be a local complaint, which only produces a decided dyscrasy from its spreading. Others allow no specific nature in cancer, some hold it infectious, others not. Even the assumption of a specific dyscrasy arising out of can- cerous parts is denied, because the neighbouring glands often swell, before the scirrhus is disposed to ulcerate; because, further, the glands often even when the disease has long existed, are not attacked, and the experiments of the capability of the poison of cancer to infect contradict this assumption (a). Many deny the absorption of the cancerous ichor, and a dyscrasy depending on it ([b), whilst Langenbeck (e) showed microscopi- cally the presence of cancerous matter in the veins, and after injecting into the veins of a dog found tumours in the lungs, the cancerous nature of which was shown bv >?o i microscopic examination. J The swelling of the neighbouring glands may indeed be also produced by pressure, i and by the propagated irritation. Relapses of the disease after removal commonly i depend on what has been left behind. In those cases, however, where the scar has been l ?°r many yeai?> k*1 the disease again breaks out, it is more probable that the cause of P4 lts recurrence is a decided predisposition (1). | th's P°'nt John Hunter (d) observes“ Some suppose cancers to be . ereditary; but this I can only admit according to my principles of hereditary right • 1 t;1 s> s.uPP°s 1 ng a person to possess a strong disposition or susceptibility for a par- S t T6’the Chl,dren.may also; but I have not yet ascertained the generalitfof f Zjf' 1,In man^ pCTSOns tt.would seem that some of the predisposing causes are suffi- I certain st?teCi°ue the.immediate ones; as when the diseased action takes place at a i certain stated time, without any immediate cause.” (p. 623.)] P ( /T406, ^|ie occasional causes of scirrhus and cancer are, all mischief which produces a constant but not intense irritation, blows, continual ■spressure, bruises; irritating treatment, or any injury of an ulcer, a hard- ness oran excrescence; internal diseases, especially scrofula and syphilis, , 6 c°nsequent swellings and affections may assume a scirrhous cha- acter. Cancer is most frequent at the critical periods of life when A °f production declines, and especially in organs destined for I J* uctlon and propagation, as the womb, testicle, and breast. Women l. more su|3.)ect to it than men; in like manner, also, persons who 11lead *seden,ary ,i4 and -xtoi | but from accTdent oft'Ts “‘J01^ the disPosit>on of the parts alone, n if them! ' , ” c °ften se„e Amours in the breast at thirty, and probably some I observes “ Thf°US t ath()ugh scrofula is more to be suspected.” (p. 622.) He further * oreasts and /Th partS m°St dlsp,os,ed t0 cancer are those peculiar to the sexes as the I ’roportioSnTs^cn^ J" SCff“s.and cancer is always unfavourable, and ' >adconstHu o n ? o thev lmP«rtance of the organ affected, the rr he syCom^Lcomt ^ ^ is hereditary disposition, when i vhen general dvsom i ^ln^ cancer are very painful and destructive, and general dyscrasy has set in. The more superficially the scirrhus or i .?)4rFANi; , vr- .. Alibkrt, above cited, p. 558. e ica e. 1844 ; vol. (®) Schmidt’s Jahrbuclier, vol. xxv. part i. W Lectures; in his Works by Palmer, vol. i.RECURRENCE OF SCIRRHUS AND CANCER. 768 cancer is seated, the less hereditary the disposition or general disease-. ** accompanying it, the more it is the consequence of local disease, the better * the constitution, and the more recent the disease, the more favourable It Ida •the prognosis. When several cancerous ulcers or scirrhi exist at the same > time, and the cancerous dyscrasy has already affected the whole body, the , disease is, according to my present experience, incurable. Scarpa assumes that scirrlms in its first period is merely a deposited, malignanM hind of germ, which is produced in the constitution, but is developed by the living powers, and is most intimately connected with any one of the conglomerate glands, or upon any one part of either the external or internal skin, where it is concealed and remains latent; but that in cancer, the hitherto harmless and latent deposit is converted into a cancerous ichor, and produces general dyscrasy. He supposes also that the removal of the scirrlms whilst in its painless state can alone have a successful result. [Travers has most justly observed, that “ not unfrequently the scirrhous tumour is perfectly inert from the period of its formation to the close of life, undergoing very slight, if any, increase, and giving, when mental apprehension is appeased, no trouble to the subject of it. A lady under his observation had been many years so situated, enjoying uninterrupted health, though considerably above seventy years of age.”. (p. 214.) Brodie (a) mentions one case in which the patient had scirrhous disease ot the breast for several years, he believes ten or fifteen; and another, “who had a scirrhous tumour of the breast twenty-five years, and she died at last, not from the disease of the breast, but from effusion into the cavity of the ehest.” (p. 211.) Such cases, I suspect/ are more frequent than generally believed. I have known a few instances, one of which indeed was in a relative, who suffered only occasional slight shooting in the' breast, for at least twenty years, during which the tumour did not increase in size after its early growth to the size of a walnut. So long, therefore, as the disease remains in i this quiet condition, I am disposed to believe that it is best left alone; for scarcely \ any, if indeed any, treatment has other effect than exciting an increase of the diseased. - action, and hurrying on the fatal result. Very few Surgeons have any reliance in the employment of internal and external remedies for the cure of cancer, even when in the scirrhous state; and the large experience of those who, in the course of operating; practice, have extirpated cancerous tumours iu their several stages, has been mosta lamentably unsatisfactory, the disease speedily recurring in the scar of the operation- wound, and the patient often quickly cut off.—J. F. S.] 2408. The cure of scirrlms and cancer requires either the dispersion of the tumour by internal and external remedies, or its removal by the knife or escharotics. [Leroy d’Etioli.ks (b) has given the following interesting facts relative to the treat- ment of cancer “ The mean duration of the life of persons not operated on is five years for men, and five years and six months for women; whilst, on the contrary, with those*| who have undergone the operation, the mean is five years and two months for nun, six years for women. It must, however, be borne in mind, that the class of t wse n operated on includes cancer of the viscera, which is so certainly and promptly, or most part, fatal. By withdrawing these, the mean duration of men not operation, six years, or one year more than in those upon whom the operation has been per or • If, however, it be inquired, what time elapses between the appearance of the disia. the one hand, and on the other, between the operation and death, on taking "ie‘, , the results of three hundred operations on men, the duration of life will be found to been three i/ears and nine months before, and one year and five months after the opera* • For women, the result of four hundred and twelve operations, gives, before the o/er - three nears and six months ; after the operation, two years and six months, fcxti p does not, therefore, prolong life. (pp. 454, 55.) Of eight hundred aud one ca.^ operated on, one hundred and seventeen were performed in less than a >carJT, nc appearance of the disease; of these one hundred and seventeen there are Xd, have returned; hut ns of the number eidu hundred and one npemp.» hundred and twelve had been performed within less than a year, at the tim gt received the observations of the physicians, we must believe that P^^ions per- the present time still greater. If, however, we examine the results of opera Y" (a) Lectures illustrative of various subjects in (6) Bulletin de 1'Academic Koyale »le Mfd**1*’ Pathology and Surgery. London, 1846. vol. m. 1S4.W4. <•■■■ ! mmset769 TREATMENT OF SCIRRHUS AND CANCER. formed many years after the appearance of the disease, that is, at a period in which it was capable of producing its degeneration, we find among the operations not followed by return, there are fifty-two performed more than five years after the development of the disease. * * * In spite of the transformation in similar tissues attacked by the cancerous affection, there are immense differences as to its termination. The lips afford the proof. Of six hundred and thirty-three men affected with cancer, one hundred and sixty-five were attacked in the lip, that is -p^. Of two thousand one hundred and forty- eight cancerous women, there were only fifty-four cancers of the lip, one and half hundredth. Ot one hundred and sixty-five men, one hundred and eleven were operated on with cutting instruments, twelve by caustic. Of the one hundred and fourteen operations there were fifteen returns, or about one-eighth, when the documents readied me. Of thirty-four lips of women, twenty two were operated on, and one of them with caustic, seven returned, or one-third. The difference in the frequency of the dis- ease must evidently be referred to the use of the pipe, and especially those called ^e-gueule, (dudeen of the Irish,) which workmen and men of that class constantly n Tf !i,dl.rerenCe- °f the Cause accounts for the difference of the results The the dls®as.e la men \s les,s in proportion, because the greater number of can- croid diseases of the lip produced and kept up by an external cause are not true wncers; and yet the symptoms, the characters of the disease do not make known its Cancers in the tongue are also more frequent in men than in women ; but the pro- portion of success we have just mentioned no longer exists here. In both sexes cancers !' Vhe have a termination equally sad. Of six hundred and thirty-three cancers ■ observed in men, eighteen had been developed on the tongue; of two thoSon f terfnetf “d i cancers m women> two only attacked that organ ; nine operations were performed, three by caustic, six with the knife; eight men and July one woman r Sum mDe °Peratl°nS’ thl’ee Were Perked since less than a year ; si/died afte“ its I sevemt !»m°UrS °f.thC breast we have the lowing resultsOf two hundred and cannot give^e residt005 Pe!’fol;med within less than two years ; I and four r y ?died TJmain 7 ^ ed and. four‘ 0f these two hundred | tbe whoeTmberone himdted IT operation; eighty-seven had a return, 8 ooeratpH L c hundred and nine, or more than half. Twenty-seven were I operated on in the first year of the appearance of the disease. 7 ° m the , l„°Weyerr’ l Were ?,alIed on t0 draw a practical inference, a rule of conduct from 1 5 ; —* IraVe collected> 1 should hesitate to make it, for I believe there Lei,? h should sav^hat dfeaSef- as wel1 as m other things; but if it were absolutely requisite, I st; advantageous* not to CeratelncludinS those of the lips, it would be s hon, and at present l d °S however, ■wish to put myself in this situa- extirnation nfra nt. would confine myself to the following conclusions, first, that the I IiereTs no SJES?hw" d-°“ T am8t.the Pr°gress of the disease ; r, cancerous buttons „ P °runng the operation from the first, if it were not for the >■! -'ancerous onrans ' hnt -ancers 0 J le s)ln : third, that it was not necessary to extirpate J. Client’s life fn danger.’’-(pe45^-58e)]ffim0rrhagieS’ CaUSed bj tbe lllceration> Put the nT*16 trea*ment f°r effecting dispersion is precisely the same node* wherfn \ glV^n> (Par/ for getting rid of hardening. This 9 rue;i; T Wlt 1 ,the.£reatest care, is easily dangerous; for ft ’iolent rpinod- • i ' ( J^persod by it, and the continued employment of £ disease into onen on ^ 1 h^onstltPtioni and favours the passage of the p ettimr snare flW Wlfn thif. treatment, that is, leeches, blood! u often!nJand soothm^rfn"! 7 reaiedies acting on the lymphatic system, welling! there can °|! !1Ca?tl0"* liaTe effected the dispersion of scirrhous ! -Ws mode of treat!em '7 °* the correctness of the diagnosis. ; ' emoval is impossible 'ind'Tfcan on 7 aPPty in those cases where ress> as in such r-i ! -lG cancer has been very tedious in its pro- minent the disc!! exPe™nce has proved that with this palliative f enience, whilst b m"1!6*? *or man7 years without particular incon- ■ 3 xtent. y i ac ive treatment it may be urged on to a frightful V°L. n.TREATMENT OF SCIRRHUS BY COMPRESSION. 770 Compression of scirrhus, increased gradually to a very great degree, as recon > mended by Samuel Young (a), has been, on repeated experiment, not found • y ‘ O nnSMrnr nrwl mnrp KeriOUS nrOGTIT menaea oy samuel iounu yuj, um —r - . v I correspond with our expectations, but even causes a quicker aud more serious progre I of the disease (b). Recamier’s more recent experiments, however, speak more fa'ou I ably for this practice. It appears from his numerous observations, that in incipiei i scirrhous swellings, compression can restore the tissue of t e lse P . iJ natural condition without depriving it of its nourishment; in further ad^l ced swe lm the tissue diminishes, and passes into a cartilaginous condition " ^ I 1 has lost its proper structure, and is converted into a cartilaginous or lard-likesu^» , it may be lessened by compression, without restoring its orgamz 1 > • - . , atrophic. The adhesions of the swelling with the surrounding t^ue s not on not increased, but lessened, and even the thin adherent skin ma£ " natural state. By this diminution of the adhesions, an actual <cleaJt L Iftbcted wh after previous division of the skin with escharotics or the knife, may eflcctcd it. the fingers. Recamier also believes that the return of a removed after the previous employment of compression is less to> be'-Jeaxeid, thiin . it has been removed without it. Compression may be employed m the most careft and gentle manner, and most effectually by linen or flannel bandages with soft man tinder beneath it, and accompanied at the same tome, 1heXk stances of the case, with the internal and external use of suitable emedies, hemlocfa mercury, iodine, depletives, repeated application of leeches, and the likeAc> rif pressure be at all employed in the attempt to cure scirrhous tumours, the bes mode Tf itTapScation is pfLly by means of the circular - euffnon invited b Dr. N. Arnott, which can be filled more or less completely, patient can bear, and over it a sort of wooden bowl corresponding to the size of thepar to be compressed, which is fastened on with a ban ag . , dpnth of the tumour which I have noticed from pressure is, that whilst it diminishes the depth of the tumour it spreads it in width, and does no real service. J. r. S.J # 2410. The removal of the diseased part with the knife, or jt» desfcrucbw with escharotics, are the only remedies which can be employed with the 1^ certainty ; a return of the disease is, however under the most; fa oura circumstances, to be dreaded. Both before and after the operation it mustbe endeavoured by treatment to improve the constitution by the pr 1 * ^ of iodine and the like, by purging, and suitable regulation of living, to ensure, as far as possible, a favourable rtsult. ** of proceeding (the knife and escharotics) are, on ie o i * ^ jt indicated when the cancer has already made 50 n Ctftuuted that must be considered a constitutional affection, ant ‘ " t ^ be all the degenerated part cannot be removed. Be J ‘ ^ aud put off, if the health of the patient be disturbed by other causes, anu< the diseased part be particularly painful. „w«m>ss that no The removal of a cancerous swelling, when it has alreafly made^ ^ P ^ advantage cure can be expected to result from it, may, however in ““/^’^removal of the of alleviating, in many respects, the sufferings of the patient, dj me large ulcerating tumour. 2411. The mode of proceeding in the removal of cancwous parts wr, according to their seat and other circumstances, and is to _ according to tncir seat aim 7 „ PiiCVSte generally according to the directions already given or ° far a famojipar. 2258.) The fol ovnngu. as tumours (par. 2258.) The following poi.us is in possible, be borne in mind. Every tiling must be remot’ed ^ The least diseased. These changes mos ly- appear n the c ^ ^ mostly appeal m . j.en surrounding the Imrden^ pai^rsojraueh oMt^i^^there^n^ a London, * much oi it must, ? «itb a away"thatThe tumour, after its removal, should be still surroum i ^ y („) Minutes of Cases of Cancer and cancerous tendency successfully treated. ■ 1* og «—Snr (c) Revue Mcdicale. 1827; vM-n gvo. Traitemcnt du Cancer. Parte, i itru«Uret'^’ FF.Ucbcr die Compress or> in von Sieboi-d's Journal, vol, *>*• V Report or vAr the Middlesex Hospital, in the Cancer Establish- tne fumuicscA —, . . ment of that Institution, vol. 1. P- «• #*■TREATMENT OP SCIRRHUS AND CANCER BY CAUSTIC. 771 iT- °f CelIu!ar tisfue‘ The bott«™ of the wound must be most care- ftiJly examined, and every thing infected removed. The healthy skin "j must be, as far as possible, preserved, to produce quick union of the wound and to prevent suppuration and an unseemly scar. It seems also ; ttm up'p^X put w ,ssues previous t0 the operatio"’and ,o keei) destructwn °f a cancerous part by caustic can only be undertaken ln Cases where the cancer is superficial, and the whole of its | * uninfected, therefore, especially in cancer of the skin The remedy I ' , ES, Powder ™ust be made into paste with water or w^Ih lint anff?nad T ! Spatak uPon the ulcer, which has been dried .,[ if bleeding non su.cIl.exte.nt’ that its hard edges be completely covered: I held The whom L u™8‘ ,lt!=| application, its further use must be with- I uncovered T, Ce 18 ?!en t0 be overIaid with spiders’ web, or left I some hours; cJnsiCablTsw, if iS &enerally veiT severe for i the ulcer ! • , swelIln8' takes place in the neighbourhood of I parts. Bams of aroSc heT lnflai^mation fPreads over the surrounding 1 best for soothing these effects1 \hp 0mentatl0ns °f warm rnilk, are the >'more effect no l ° ^se ettects. The more severe these symptoms are the Pght tefor 16 ,°perati°n °f tbe ba expected to be In I nay be cut off with60 ^ th® fl0Ugh seParates; the loose pieces only I difUrbin* in tbe leaSt tbat whicE o >f the slough it heals w!tl “ flea,n U .cer remains after the separation * Mic miisfbe repSed ‘ ^ dm!Slng’ but if h be 110t ciea» f HP x reXXrtsi “4 tasSfss [tlT. I ; A TTlAtl rr • % first, equal parts of hecdorki^Ttf e“pI°yS C,hloride of «nc in four propor- ; z£ ithe chioride s "1de of Zlnc> one °f butyr of antirnonv o,„i rtL fl°Vr ’ fourtK one part of the '■^l cancer of the skin these ann °f and a half °f flour. In widely! JI> of the arsenic are not to be feared (a) ^ advantageous> as symptoms of absorp- f ~IIeulmund {/,). The^Leafe^lf!au C°SMfE7 P°wd®r bas been proposed W washing with water or Pf to be carefu% cleansed, either 'vjth a spatula. The diseased TiartV^T1’ by ,oos®!nnS' an(d removing droc—i ... . ■ sec* part is then, according to its form to sdgets of very fine soft lint '5 u *° 4? ^essedVftrpleJl^Tv11 ^ ^ accordin& *o its form, to Mment (1) 33 thick as a card GI Tl ^i^i^ bnt’ sPread with arsenical 1 ■« B ' 1’ ! a Card> Phe PledgetS a- t0 be aPP«-l singly to ; ""ft A^seMesRindREC ’ NeW TIe,atment of Ma- ndon. 1836. “ Uncer without Excision. MS/Jn,Ero?."xU.’p.C5lZUSammUngCSt; in IlusT’s 3 D 2772 TREATMENT OF SCIRRHUS AND CANCER BY CAUSTIC. the different depths of the ulcer, and very closely pressed with the probe so that they may be well applied, and extend beyond the edges of the sop about two lines, or if there be only spots, upon the surrounding healthy skin I If the edges of the ulcer be much swollen, it is necessary to apply thi arsenical ointment, first upon them, and then to put on the pledget, li this way the dressing is to be applied once a day, and each time thc.| sloughs must be removed. Shortly after the application of the ointmen : a burning is felt, which soon amounts to pain, that often becomes severe j According to the degree of pain, and the inflammation in the immediate! neighbourhood, it must be determined whether the salve should be made mor active by the addition of Cosme’s powder (2), or made milder by mixin< with it resin ointment. On the third or fourth day, the pain, swellingd and redness gradually diminish; but the ulcer, winch has increased i. size, assumes a foul appearance. Its fungous and lard-like bottom, which secretes a sort of pus, begins on the fourth or fifth day to become putrescent or to secret a thin ichor. On the fifth or sixth day, this is changed into. soft, moist slough, which cannot be removed like the slough of an absc but must be again covered with the arsenical ointment. According an treatment proceeds, too rapidly or too slowly, the arsenical ointment must rendered weaker or stronger. When, on the sixth or seventh daj tin white, felt-like slough has been completely formed, the sore miatjbj dressed in the same way as before, daily, with balsamic ointment 3), s|e^ as thin as the back of a knife upon lint or linen. On the ‘nthorte. day, the line of separation forms and spreads around the who eplough, which on the fourteenth or fifteenth day is thrown off, and the wound^e^ hibits a healthy suppurating surface. If this surface \etai" ‘ b condition, it must be dressed, till cured, with the balsamic om men bw if any one part still have a foul appearance, the arsemca ointmen niu be applied to it for two or three days, and when it is in hi, uaj bro into a putrescent state, without a slough being formed, it must a,, dressed with the balsamic salve. _<* of tin (1) This ointment is composed of one dram of Cosme’s powder and an ounce narcotico-balsamic ointment, well mixed togethei. 'tie -I st ' i in Usr oat ;wh es iU id rin a rea 11 4 Kt • if. to ointment, well mixed together. , arcenic. twelu "”(2)'HKm.MUND’s receipt for this powder is, Td^^ drams of Sbar, wel grains of charcoal, sixteen grains of dragons > * powdered and mixed. _ , • Wnplr pPrnv;an balsam andextracr (3) The narcotico-balsamic ointment is made with black I «r of tine of henbane, half an ounce each, four scruples of acetate o^fi^y nun tore of opium, and four ounces of wax ointment, well rubbed tocet . _ 2414. The I length of time occupied by this treatment commonly, however, it does not exceed thirty or fortydvSC^y, »«>• no particular diet is necessary. In scrofulous and herj . ;nflam- remedies already indicated are employed. In erythetic. Per^ ‘ ’ isite. ) nation and fever are often so great, that special , 1 nntlopfl dm- no- the use of arsenical omtmeui, have" several times noticed, during the use « nd diarrhoea, which I could not, at > ,,ractice l ean confirm, from numerous cases in my ‘ d pro- pains in the belly, and diarrhoea, other causes. I can confirm, front numero^ ca«» m ^ pro the advantageous efiect of this mode of treatme . and * f this mode of treatment. ■* ne e and tin eTessive effect which may be increased or diminished at pJ^fE\, p0wdei fact, that it can be applied to deep parts and places'yImre C of tht rn fit iv* H | :| fact, that it can be applied to ueep u, In cancer cannot well be used, are the advantages oft^ me^n in ^e cases oi skin, in eating and sloughing spots, it is specially efficient,773 CANCER OF THE LIPS AND CHEEKS. cancer of the breast, it may be very curative; in fungous cancer, it has not any effect at all (a). 2415. If cancerous degeneration appear after repeated removal or repeated application of caustic, or if the cancer be so situated that these modes of treatment are not applicable, we are restricted to the internal and external use of such remedies as specially act, partly against the local, and partly against the general symptoms, which arise from the absorption of die cancerous poison. To the former belong the internal use of arsenic t belladonna, cicuta, and digitalis, of cherry bay water, mercury, calendula, carbonate of iron, hydro-chloride of gold, fucus helminthocorton, iodide of potash, and the like For external application, weak solution of arsenic, . poultices of cicuta, belladonna, digitalis, calendula, of carrots with bichlo- ride of mercury, and of yeast poultices, powdered charcoal, lime water solutions of narcotic extracts, leeches, liquor of ammonia diluted with water’ expressed juice of onopordon acanthium, sulphuret of potash, carbonate : or phosphate of iron, made into a paste with water, and continued grach ! al y increasing pressure. With this treatment, the mode of living^must die? ordered! ’ ’ * *** mU8t be aV°ided’ and milk or vegetable 2416. In order to diminish the severe pain of an open cancer the - WIW kIke™> auence nf o ie't an/- ?^an.ldcer Passes into a cancerous state in conse- Sll .ant ,mtatl°". improper treatment, anti the like, a soothint P>ilt!csSauTet™le “.ropeated leeching, warm fomentations, and ■0 the existing together with attention A. OF CANCER OF THE LIPS AND CHEEKS. f 2418. Cancer occurs only on the lower lin it lmCf r Ur. ! « a primary affection nn 1 t P’ 1 least 1 have never seen it •ecomes very painful and hrenl-c n ? 11 , Jip’ w“lck enlarges, *e chin, tl71c„u ‘ClraTe of the mShf a,'y T" the sti" he jaw, and destroys the entire lip and the blne'° 8“"1S’ ' ^ gla"C,S belo'v £o™iS;^rtfe f rn *■ ^ % „M te„ il{LZlr°,p i'iylhe natur“l tissues of the lin. Tn th rt!!*1, t0 w,e tr!!e cancer, ie nn PfrtroPhic, and very considerably lengthened wn !' ’ *16 Papilla: of the cutis a Plaster of epithelial cells^hadlieen (hl-m i" Sf a?on t le whole surface of 2K7™. f “ «*•! *> was Jjg* coatinually grew, ,nd ten oo Vpdervns, and thus a cylinder was formed u- extremity with a thick ^ capable of being drawn like a SoSil »h«h the base of the papilla, i thr. C °re to eacl* other, were pushed a nan ltv ' e‘r ’’ entere(h These cylinders, ^he surfacc by a layer of epidermal scales SCallng’ th°ugh still held together y and presented an appearance neariv «n-y w®68’ the ePlthelium formation tn) c„n Im. , „ ,, appearance nearly allied to warts and condglomata. w) Henry e’a m^Onu' kI.mnisch- Annalen, vol. iii. ace'i inMed.-ChiV. Trans!, vol,.,xH.ep!f2^°Cal in the of diseases resemblingOPERATION FOR CANCER OF TIIE LIPS. 774 Ulcers on tlie lips are often malignant, without being cancerous; as the continua movement of the lips, and the flow of spittle and the like, prevent their healing, am I a keep up constant irritation. Syphilitic sores on the lips often assume a malignai. :i character; they mostly begin with a vesicle which hursts, and the ulceration spread q from the skin to the other tissues. Not unfrequently, also, ill-conditioned ulcers an kept up by bad teeth (a). 2419. The only efficient mode of treating cancer of the lip is, tht removal of the diseased parts by cutting them out; and this is pre- ferable to the use of caustic. The operation is only contraindicatec when the cancerous degeneration has spread considerably on the inside o: the mouth, the submaxillary glands and so on, which render the complete removal of the disease impossible. The mode of operating varies accord- ing to the extent of the cancer. 2420. If the cancer do not spread down beyond the red part of the lip, and only affect more or less of the edge of the lip, it is best whilst holding the diseased part with the left hand, or with G raefe s entropium-fm- ceps, and pulling it well up, to cut it off through the healthy part, by a slight sweeping cut with a pair of scissors curved towards their surface; The spouting labial arteries are to tied or twisted, and the wound, covered with a sponge dipped in cold water till the bleeding ceases en- tirely. German tinder is then to be applied, and when after three or four days, suppuration is set up, a linen rag dipped in lukewarm waten should be put on till the scarring is complete. In from ten to twelve days a linear scar is formed by the union of the mucous membrane of t e mouth with the external skin, in consequence of which the lip draws up, so that in great loss of substance the alveolar process and teeth are more> or less completely covered again ; but in less loss of substance there is scarcely any noticeable depression of the lip remaining, as my numerous* cases have proved. The ordinary way of removing the cancerous part J two cuts meeting at an angle, causes in these cases a great loss o su stance (b). [Notwithstanding Chelius’s recommendation, I think the old me4°d of treabng these cases with the angular cut is safest; the depth to which the cut s iou <■ of course will depend on the extent of the disease. J. F. S.J „■ 2421. If the cancer have spread down beyond the red edge of Pj the whole degenerated part must be removed by two cuts " "c 1 f ^ meet at an acute angle. In doing this an assistant steadies 1C ^ j)can><,1 his fingers on both sides, compressing the coronary- arteries at tne time. The operator with the thumb and forefinger of the left 18,1 b the diseased part, lifts it up a little, places the knife upon t u et lip, carries it obliquely downwards and inwards, and then ma e> cut in the same way on the other side, so that a V shaped piece i> ‘. Its connexion with the gums and chin is then divided, the N ^ vessels twisted or tied, and the edges of the wound brought t0o jn in the operation for hare-lip with the twisted suture ’ doing which the bleeding is generally stopped without any hga ' ]ip> If the cancer spread from the corner of the mouth over tne and the corner must be removed with a semilunar or an angu a ^ gt afterwards the V shaped cut must be made downwards, i ntal|y or the corner of the mouth is first to be brought together ho obliquely, and then the remaining wound readily meets. Icide Eaht.k, above cited, p. 2/1.—Cheiivs; in Heidelb. klin. Ann., vol. iii. (6) Richkrand la Cliirurgic, p. 21S. Histoire des I’rog™* rrcen* de SffcMB - —ss77 5 OPERATION OP CHILOPLASTY. The extensibility of the lip, especially when separated to a great extent from the gums and jaw, permits its union even in cases of enormous loss of substance, and gradually gets rid of the considerable deformity often at first present. J J^hen, therefore, even in very widely-extended cancer of the lip there is great loss of substance, usually by close attention to the above points, the bringing together of the lip is possible, and the at first much opposed drawing together and deformity of the mouth gradually ceases (a). Cutting into the corner of the mouth for the purpose of increasing its : aperture, as by some recommended, is not only useless, but even prevents But whenXlbpS1]bl lty c°f it ie Pai’tS concerned by Producing a hard scar. " ' “ 'e *?ss °f subfance »" out a cancer of the lip is so | togethei’nothinKiemains but 10 2423. The different methods and proposals for forming an under]in I ChLplastvTabgetd in 7th!. foUo.win& W ; first, the Italian mode S Ga EFE A ’ , y 1anS+? anT,n| the skin of the arm (Taguacozzi, vox . Textor Zl ’ “an. mode of Chiloplasty (Delpech (fi), that losty’takenUfYTRES ^ 'Ihlch a Plece> corresponding in size to with the’ed^ of fhl™ Sk,I;n- °J the neck> turned round and united and adroitlv hr! • Y°Un<?; third, separation of the neighbouring skin, „ Pneh y bringing together the cut and uniting it in different wavs - I Xr°^Sd":‘S“d *». 'felt a vertical cut is nlde „„ Ih sWe of Se ■ Matter‘of whnlth ^T’ &S d° ^ th°Se °f Blandin and Serre (/), the mouth and with itt^rn^ty,0 preseTV^ the mucous membrane of the bacii’s fJt 5 1 *° ROVRr the uPPer edge of the wound. R. Dieffen- the soft nartT 18 the {°llowinS > after cancer has been removed ■ ia^oif eUW silSePrteV° :rffident 6Xtent fr0m the and W „ wound twn -i 6 5 hen’ for t ie Purpose of relaxing the edges of the 5 Cat ,hert z ma;!e in,:“t,ie r?th « $ ££ made at each corner of th? ^ S1<1j a, horizontal cut outwards being |^ the edge of the iaw and tlian a vertical cut carried down m the middle and iniitedwbT^ t 1'° flaps are no'v drawn together iected with the comers of hi , SU U1'f; their outer arf con- iheveral interrupted sutures to the m°Uth’ anC Upper ec%fi sewn with 'lijaiethofl ii 1 res t0 t ie mucous membrane, v. Bv Blasttts’s f/j'. made beginning from the rth? t? a"gle below the chin, a cut ' hove the edge of the iaw and o i° *16 wound> about half an inch I b hG Jaw’ and carried a good thumb’s breadth down- pil'^g7n,dcmG!lirRene ,LipPcn “nil Naaen- I *in. ifnnal.^vol vf ?U',jeCte : in Heidelb. 587. Ilrurgle Clinique de Montpellier, vol. ii. (d) xxi-! P- 490. 1828. 1 «ieduco™ 8U“^gee P" > transport dhine 7 \U>’ v*1' 't'^p. 283. Utre > ln 1{evue Mcdicale, ®PcraWrefvol?iiNp“V^j"UX EU'mens «>« M,';deeine good p $8SEmi inNoa.zis.e M6d,caIe de Pari9>v°>-ii!- nnr£i a?a-T’ h'frttp- <le Cliiloplastice et Stomato- P0 , - ElPs- S37.-7.kis, llandbuch der plas- Vfc5®" Chirurgie, p 419.—Haumoautkn, Dissert, tie Omloplastice et Stomatopoesi. Dips., 1837. C«) Klinische Zeitscluift fiir Chirurgie nml Augenheilkunde, vol. i. p.387. Ilalle, 1830 von Ammon nnd Haumoartkn, Die plastiscbe 129 lerlin“ 842ren hia"eti'°c" Lcistungen, p.77 6 CANCER OF THE TONGUE. wards, again brought up in a curve to the edge of the jaw, and continued along it to the edge of the m. masseter. This flap is now to be separated from the jaw, and afterwards a like one having been made on the left side, both are to be drawn inwards and upwards, so that they replace the lower lip, and are then brought together with the twisted suture. Both angles formed by the soft parts on the sides of the chin are now to be dissected up, and so drawn upwards and towards each other that they touch the line of union of the new underlip, and the lower edge of the latter is brought into immediate connexion with the raised skin, in which position the edges of the wound are to be kept together partly by the twisted and partly by the interrupted suture, the head being at the same time bent downwards, 2424. In considering these different methods and performances of Clu- loplasty, with the exception of the very difficult and in its consequence uncertain Italian transplantation, it must be remembered that in the inser- tion of a flap turned round from the skin of the neck, as well as m the mere drawing up of the separated flaps, the bare part of the jaw indeed may be covered, but generally the upper edge of the skin which is firm y connected to the bone, puckers together, rolls inwards, irritates by the growth of the beard, and can only assume in some degree a natural ap- pearance, if it be possible to stitch it to the mucous membrane of the mouth. These circumstances apply in like manner, though in less degree, to Blasius’s method ; and are most favourable in Dieffenbach s ope- ration ; but it is very bad when the side flaps on drawing together do not meet each other, either at the corner of the mouth, or are destroyed by gangrene. In the closure of the side openings, under both operations, nature is very active, and may be assisted by touching with lunar caustic or by making little side cuts (a). 2425. If the cancer of the lip have extended to the bone or have anse from the bone itself, under which circumstances the use of caustic, o actual cautery and the like, in general merely increase themiscluet, t only remaining remedy is the removal of the chin first prac lse } ' derick and Dufuytren. In order that this operation should be sue cessful, the skin must be healthy to such distance that it is possible w cover the part where the bone has been sawn off; and the swelling neighbouring glands and the signs of general cancerous 1 )sc 1 ^ not particularly forbid such operation. The mode of proceeding ^ hereafter considered when the removal of the lower jaw is tita ei ■ is further to be remarked that in cases where the bone is not < e' ’ 1 removal, however, may be requisite, for the purpose of ob ami y to bring the soft parts together (Roux). u0,Wniction 2426. In cancer of the cheeks and other parts of the face, * ■ is commonly undertaken with Cosme’s powder ; where however ^ and nature of the disease permits it being cut off, that method proper. ■ n • b „ H w t1 i B.—OF CANCER OF THE TONGUE. 2427. Cancer of the tongue commonly begins with a scribed swelling at one side or other of that 0^n; characters pain ; the swelling breaks and quickly spreads with the peculi (a) Zeis, above cited, p. 426. >1.777 TREATMENT OF CANCER OF THE TONGUE. of cancerous ulceration. Various swellings and ulcers which occur on the tongue, very often assume a malignant appearance; the loose tissue of the tongue, its continual moisture from the spittle, and pointed, decayed teeth very commonly keep up stubborn sores. Not unfrequently the papilla on the dorsum lingua enlarge and form fungous excrescences. Syphilitic ulcers of the tongue commonly degenerate into cancer. 2428. The prognosis depends on the seat of the disease, its extent and cause. If an ulcer of the tongue have assumed, in consequence of con- tinual irritation or improper treatment, an ill-conditioned character, it may often be cured by proper local and general treatment; to which treatment the Surgeon is restricted in those cases of ulcerated cancer which are beyond the reach of any operation. Every irritant, every mischievously projecting, irregular, or sharp tooth, must be removed, the tongue protected by covering the other teeth with wax, talking entirely forbidden, the mouth often cleansed with lukewarm water, or a solution of extract of hemlock with honey, only bland food taken, and in bad cases all solid food avoided. If the glands beneath the chin be swollen, or the ulcer very irritable, leeches must be applied repeatedly. The patient should frequently during the day hold carrot- pulp in his mouth, which operates partly as a fomentation, and partly as it has the effect of completely preventing the patient from talking and moving his tongue. Instead of the application of a solution of°lunar caustic, or of dilute hydrochloric acid, three to four drops in an ounce of water, and sometimes a solution of arsenic, as recommended by Henry Earle (a), I employ mild soothing remedies with the best effect. Ex- tract of hemlock in increasing doses may be given internally. For sy- philitic ulcers, mercurial treatment, and Zittmann’s decoction may be employed, and in other cases, the several preparations of gold. If by these remedies the progress of the ulcer cannot be checked, it is decidedly cancerous; or if there be a scirrhous swelling, the removing of the deo-e- nerated part is necessary, provided that no general dyscrasic disease keep P ie affection of the tongue, that it be not degenerated at the root, and that the neighbouring glands and tonsils be not affected. It must, how- ver, be remarked, in reference to the last point, that the application of hn<rJ(/,)!eC 16S at firSt antl °f a few aftenvards> °ften disperses this swel- IIeyfelder (e) thinks that in scirrhous hardening of the tin of fh» t , Pemi0n “*? »• **md a* long « there i, „„ ,roce §f ,ra“i,S *• 2429. The removal of the cancerous part of the tonsrue is managed i„ the itTff"ay V tllC °Peratlon for shortening a very large tongue (par 916?') • ge S’ ThVer’ r°trdinf !° thC Seat and ext-‘ ^ S.e cancerous de- I "• f. ‘e [,a,tl.ent seated on a stool> and having his head fixed bv an is th^T^ behlud hlm> Protrudes thc tongue as far as possible which Pair of nolbe f‘d W“h ‘.h? fi"S“8 covered with lE or with a tire,, i " -1'i1' l>rceP9i with wiiicii the back of the tori'.ue is arasoed firnilv 5SK S ,Corfahn:' kV 1 U,e drr' Part is to wS S tt’finTe^ degenerated Lrt Wps’, a hooJ or a thread passed through it. The toury ,,rwh ^ »ovv drawn forwards, is to be cut off with a bis- ’ r with the kneed or Cooper’s scissors ; the direction (®) Above cited, p. 285 W LikPHANc ; in Revue MeJlcale, 1827. vol. ii. De CXRtirI™tione Llngmo. Erbtn- Zungenkrebs; in Studien im Gebiut eder Ileilwisaensclinft, vol. i. p. 183.778 REMOVAL OF THE TONGUE BY TYING. and shape of the cut being decided by the seat and shape of the diseased When the ulcer or the scirrhus is not large, specially if it be on the tij of the tongue, it may be removed by two cuts connected at an angle, sc that the wound may be brought together with suture ; although IIey- felder holds it better not to effect the union this way, but to leave it tc nature. If the cancer be on one side of the tongue, that organ must beJ divided by a cut lengthways, and a second cut made transversely or obli- quely behind the degenerated part. If the disease extend far back, it is ; necessary first to divide the cut on the corresponding side to obtain more room. If the tongue be degenerated throughout its whole thickness and far back, the cheek must also be first divided, and when the tongue lias been properly protruded and fixed, it must be cut off with two strokes;: with Cooper’s scissors from the side towards the middle. The bleeding:; which always accompanies this operation must be stopped as far as pos- sible by ligature, by styptics, by pieces of ice held in the mouth, by solution of alum, or by the actual cautery. The edges of the wound are then to be carefully examined, and every hard knot or diseased part seized with the hook or forceps, and removed with the scissors. The after-treatment must, according to the degree of the ensuing inflam- mation, be more or less antiphlogistic ; the patient must not talk, and only eat mild nourishing broth. When suppuration takes place, bland, mouth-washes must be used. If the suppurating part assume a bad ap- pearance, it must be touched with caustic, or with the actual cautery, and at the same time a corresponding general treatment employed. After the cure, the speech is more or less affected, according as more or less of the tongue has been removed ; it, however, gradually improves if the lost part have not been very great. Fungous growths of the tongue must be cut off at their base, either immediately or after the application of a ligature around the tongue, and the bleeding surface touched with the actual cautery (a). Tying the lingual arteries (par. 1444) which has been proposed for the special object of preventing bleeding in cutting off the tongue, is partly on account of its great danger and difficulty in stout persons, improper, but specially so, because experience has shown that even in deep removal of the tongue the bleeding may be stanched by ligature an other remedies. Jaeger, for these reasons, thinks it required only in cases of consi- derable varicose or aneurysmatic affections of the tongue, or in its total removal, w c the remainder of the tongue cannot be laid hold of. 2430. The removal of the tongue by tying, which is done either with a single ligature, or with a double thread, passed through with a needle, an tied on botli sides, is indeed a security against bleeding, but the painfu ness of this method, the inconvenience caused by the swelling of the tongue, by its sloughing and the like, generally leads to the preference of rem®'^e by cutting; cases, however, may occur, where a mixed treatment may requisite. If, for instance, the tongue be diseased far back on one si ^ the diseased may be separated from the healthy part by a cut exten ing sufficiently far back, the diseased mass drawn forwards with the forceps, ai a ligature applied with the loop-drawer, at the root of the degeneration IF Otherwise, experience shows, that in such cases, the removal by cu B has favourable results (c). e qu’il prond a la formation de la paro c; 1 Medicate, 1832. vol. ii. p. 384. (b) Lisfranc, above cited. ivbrr P*r* (r) Jafokr, above cUed.—Kkicbe, tielle iind totalc Extirpation dcr /.tinge, Magazin, vol. xlvi. part ii.. (a) von Wat.thkh ; in his Journal fur Chirurgie und Augenlieilkunde, vol. v. p. 210.—Jaf.okr, above cited.—Dfi.pecn, Stir un Cas de Cancer de la Lanj organe, i v! - ■ cited.—UF.I.PECH, nur un v.as uc ingue, uui a entralne la perte totale de cet ,e, et qui a fourni l'occasion d’etudier la part779 MIR AULT’S MODE OF TYING THE TONGUE. 1 f l K k 1 K a n Ilf ll't lif W*> y,b re Ilf) *0 m 18 FT If) ») As Cloquet bad previously opened the bottom of the mouth for the introduction of a ligature, so Mirault (a) proceeded in a case, in which he had fruitlessly endeavoured to find the lingual artery on one side, although he had taken it up, with difficulty, on the other, after which, the tumour diminished, but increased again. He made a cut from the chin to the tongue-bone, directly in the space between the m. geniohyoidei, through which he pierced the tongue at the middle of its base, and surrounded the left half with a ligature, the ends of which hung down from the neck, and were there tied. Afterwards he tied the other half. If thus tied at two different times, the cancer may be cured without mortification of the tongue, which retains its shape and activity. According to Mirault, the cut into the bottom of the mouth is assisted, if the tongue be drawn well forward with a hook, and a needle curved sideways with a handle, like Desault’s aneurysmal needle, be thrust through the middle line of the tongue from above down- wards, so that its point protrude below, at the part where the tie is to be made • the one end of the thread is now to be held fast, the needle with the other end drawn back and then the threads tied. ’ M ith Mirault s, agrees the practice of Regnoli (b) for removal of the tongue. He made three cuts in the form of J from the lower edge of the point of the chin to the tongue-bone, and on either side to the front edge of the m. masseter. The skin, cellular w ViT ”£■ Plfnsmui myoides, were dissected off, a pointed straight bistoury thrust behind the chin from above downwards, the insertion of the m. geniohyoidei and qenio- ‘h,ro?gh’ a,1(1 the mucous membrane of the mouth divided. With a button- hranf 7fStL Ury’ ^lnsertIons of the m- digastrici and mylohyoidei, and the mucous mem- brane of the mouth were now cut through up to the pillars of the soft palate. After tying a few vessels, the tip of the tongue was seized with Museux’s forceps, and drawn down nulkd w7nr ?pening, j’° that the tongue was seen on the front of the neck, and p lied well down with the fingers. Several ligatures were now applied with i lono- shelrs ^ °-' th® t0ngUe ’ the tongue cut off with a small pair of shears in front of the ligature; its stump returned into the cavity of the mouth and ™7Ut “outh t0 k-P d°wn the i/flammatbn ’ Of1rirlof'fifteen1 *tll^ 0peration a malignant tumour of the tongue and ,£tL * fi.fteen> which was as large as a pullet’s egg, projected from the upper fa,JOd surface at its right side from nearly half an inch of its apex to the isthmus {xtended Tnd R!'0 U<Jed -f edge. between the teeth. « The head being slightly an A? ?\fS- hrde-\ felt’ a“ ,rjcisi0n was made over it, upwards and ’forwards7 ch and a half in length, on the mesial line, through the skin, cellular subs tan no’ fidthe mylQthyoid muscles. With the edge°of the knife?but cLiefly byits dossdmnLr35 f°r t ]e fiDger between the two genio-hyoid and the two^effio- means A teaaculum was next passed through the apex of the tongfe by i?^7£^e’aftlen°to Stftrf SSS longitudinally on the upper surface ofthfV f, • tu?.10ur 1 the otller was placed , .fe as possible,) the diseased mass was circum- Hill in B/imQ tnnncno - O • i • - . _ , third ligature was at tliis part, the % "touted she^ bSfimafi ThiS Proceeding fixed the tongAe in night on milk by an elastic catheter n-i« ,',CU,?te or swallow. She was fed for a fort- "Sbhagiis. The swelling of the P^sed along the left side of the tongue into the j swelling of the sound part of the tongue, and the salivation which A^u®tMNoC32.de rarU’ V01’ “• P- 507 (J) Bulletino . , ,, , 1839. No. 181. (c) Med.-Clnr. Trans., vol. xxll. 1839 ilello Scienze Mediche. Jan.CANCER OF THE PAROTID GLAND. 780 ensued, were moderated by active purging. On the second day, “ the circumscribed portion of the tongue was black and pulpy, and portions of it began to separate. This continued until the fifth day, when, on removing some of these, I discovered that the sloughing was confined to the surface, and that the more soft part of the tumour underneath was still alive, as it bled on being scratched. I endeavoured to complete t the strangulation by carrying a canula over the ligatures, hanging out of the wound of the neck up towards the root of the tongue, and tightening these afterwards by twisting and maintaining them so, but without a successful result.” * * * “On the i eleventh day the diseased was completely separated from the sound half of the tongue i by a deep trench, so as to give it a truly bifid character, and the trench was continued across the basis, seeming to extend through the whole thickness of the part. * * * Reunion by granulation had commenced between the diseased and sound portions of the tongue, but this was easily broken down by the probe. It was now evident that the former part derived some vascular supply from below, and the following method was employed to cut this off. A loop of silver wire, properly bent, was passed over it from the mouth, carried and depressed into the trench already mentioned as surround- ing it, and being drawn forwards, the diseased part was found to be placed completely above the level of the loop. The two ends of the wire were next passed through a double polypus-canula, and this being carried home under the tumour, to what may now be considered its neck, the ligatures were tightened, the death of the part effected, separation ensuing on the fifth day, (the seventeenth from the first opera- tion.”) (p. 23-28). The case succeeded completely, and at present, Oct. 1846, she is quite well.] C.—OF CANCER OF THE PAROTID GLAND. Kaltschmied, De Tumore Glaudulse Parotidis feliciter exstirpato. Jen®, 1752. Sieboi-d, C., Parotidis sc.irrhosse feliciter exstirpatas Ilistoria. Erford., 1781. , (Resp. Orth.,) Dissert, de Scirrho Parotidis. Wirceburg, 1793. Siebold, B., Historia Systematis Salivalis, p. 151. Jen®, 1797. Ohee, Erfahruugen ueber die Ausrottung der Ohrspeicheldriise; in Zeitschrifl fur Natur- und Heilkunde, vol. i. part i. Dresden, 1819. alia IU1VA 7 XT Keein Ueber die Ausrottung mehrere Geschwiilste, besondes der Schild- und Orspeich- eldriise ; in von Gbaefe und von Wai.tuer’s Journal fiir Chirurgie und AugenheU- H kunde, vol. i. p. 106. 1820. Kyp, (Praesid. Waether,) Dissert, de Indurationeet Exstirpatione Glandulae Parotidis. - Bonn®, 1822. _ . Braambebg, Dissert, de Exstirpatione Glandulae Parotidis et Submaxillaris. Groinng., 1829. 4to. 2431. The parotid gland is subject to a variety of degenerations ot its : tissue, by which its size is increased, and a larger or smaller swelling is produced. It may be the seat of induration, of a sarcomatous degenera- tion, of scirrhus and cancer, and of medullary fungus. Encysted tiuuou. in the tissue of the parotid, or in its neighbourhood, as well as swellingsi o the neighbouring glands, may be easily mistaken for a swelling o parotid itself. _ . i„.avg 2432. The swelling of the parotid is characterized by there being a j a circumscribed tumour between the mastoid process and the ascending branch of the lower jaw, which lifts the ear up, and enlarges in a.m®fetfie less irregular, oftentimes egg-shaped or pyramidal form The axis ° id swelling1 always corresponds to a straight line, continued from tne * the angle of the lower jaw or 11,tie deviatingtherein if the swelling be not very large ; and it forms a pyramid, the which lies upon the ascending plate of the jaw but its apex Paction of 2433 The following circumstances serve for the closer ... n0t the several tumours of the parotid gland. Scirrk,* form,,»“d very bulky, of stony hardness, irregular on its surface, havingCANCER OF THE PAROTID GLAND. 781 globular projections, almost immovable, protruding little externally, though it spreads rather deeply, compresses the vessels and nerves, and declares its cancerous nature by the lancinating pain. Induration of the parotid remains after previous inflammation, {par. 141,) feels less hard and uneven than scirrhus, and shows no sign of concealed cancer. In sarcomatous degeneration, the swelling is softer than in scirrhus or induration, its growth is rather quick, it is movable, and may also be raised from below. Medullary fungus of the parotid forms a swelling which quickly attains an enormous size, and from whence, on its bursting, fungous growths arise and bleedings frequently occur. 2434. From the above-mentioned swellings of the parotid gland, encysted ■ tumours, which are developed in the parenchyma, or on the covering of the gland are distinguished by having mostly a roundish form and regular surface; their front surface is often compressed ; they are not developed equally; they feel soft, and fluctuate indistinctly. In tumours of the absorbent glands, there are always several swollen at the same time, the swellings are softer, and there is a general appearance of scrofulous disease. Iumours of the submaxillary glands are distinguished from those of the parotid by the seat of their development. 2435. In scirrhus, as well as in medullary fungus of the parotid removal is the only remedy, though a doubtful one. Various means have been advised for the dispersion of induration, as hemlock, antimony mercury, barytes, and iodine; for external application, mercurial, or iodic oin ments, poultices, dry bags of hemlock, hyoscyamus, belladonna, stra- monipm, softening steam of these herbs, dispersing plasters. In sarcoma- ous swellings of the parotid, perhaps some decrease may be effected bv repeated applications of leeches, by issues on the tumour, or in its neigh- bourhood, and by a seton drawn through the tumour. These means lessen he increased nourishment of the swelling, by the inflammation excited by the seton producing obliteration of the vessels, and the swelling is de- UT )y t ie s.uPPuratlon- Such modes of treatment, however, can only be employed with the hope of a favourable issue in cases of not Ion- tending degeneration of the parotid, and when it has little increased in I caiL a Tjf’ howe*er’ be remembered, that attempts at dispersion may ■ a quicker growth of induration. When in sarcomatous de-eneratio7 ^ nUme,'0US’ *he i"tr°d"Cti“n “f * seton ™y pr“duc7 anfrln6; The removal.of the parotid gland belongs to the most difficult i sible 'K?hr°T operatlOM.s’ and ,s by mai)y considered totally unpermis- ble, as the close connexion of the gland with the important neighbouring neC6Tu7 W0Un(Hng °f very b»P°rta!it vessels and nerves swelling of thfpai4idefnogrdra °* “ ?erV0U,S Symptoras ’ besides, the is not V ^ parotid, in ordinary cases, is productive of no dano-er nnd extijfpatin-°theUrotid wETtf? ^ repeated]y proved the possibility of The nafotid 5 ° , .Wlth<),lt t ie occurrence of these accidents. adher^E?he tSur“ ^ bbrous capsule; if this be not removal is far easier and W n * UUn° tbe operation it can be spared, the are united. The vrs'd i • ,i nSer°us tban wben the capsule and tumour the temporal nut> • 8 ." n<i1 may woundfd during the operation are, arteries or their hran 7 aura!’ transverse facial, and external maxillary or their branches, which are often considerably enlarged, and even («) Hichteh, Anfnngsgriimlc, vol. iv. par. 401, 402.782 EXTIRPATION OF THE PAROTID GLAND. the carotid artery itself, which is often completely enclosed in the paroti gland. If the Surgeon operate with due care, and with intimate knowledg- of the parts, he may almost always avoid injuring the trunks of thes arteries; even, however, if one or other be wounded, fatal bleeding ma be prevented by one or other of the under-mentioned remedies. Numerou twigs from the third branch of the fifth pair, the communicating facial and from the third pair of cervical nerves must indeed be cut through ii removing the parotid, but the trunk of the facial nerve is not necessdB divided (a). The removal of a scirrhous tumour of the parotid gland is always mos difficult and dangerous, because it is firmly connected with the surrounding parts, and if any of the disease be left, no cure can be expected. Iii induration and sarcoma the tumour is more movable, the surrounding capsule may therefore be left alone, and does not at all interfere. Allan Burns (b) believes that in all cases where the parotid has been held to havr been removed, it was not the gland itself, but a diseased conglobate gland, of which then are commonly two accompanying the parotid, the one under the lobe of the parotid, an- the other on its middle, and lying opposite the division of the external carotid, into maxil lary and temporal arteries. The former is not so deep, and is simply covered with th‘ cervical fascia and the lobe of the parotid. Burns attempted the removal of the parotic on the dead body, but even there failed to remove all the diseased substance (c). 2437. For the extirpation of the parotid gland, it is most convenient to lay the patient upon a narrow table covered with a mattress, in such way; on the healthy side, with the head a little raised, that the light may readily fall upon the swelling. If the tumour be not very large, the skin covering it not connected with it, and not diseased, an assistant fixes the swelling on each side with his fingers, thrusting it upwards at the same time, and rendering the skin tense; a longitudinal cut must then be made through the skin from the mastoid process to the angle of the jaw. If the swelling be larger, a crucial cut must be made; and if the skin be attached and diseased, two semilunar cuts must be made and connected above and below, including the diseased skin. The in. platysma myoides is to be next cut through, and all the spouting vessels tied. The skin must now be separated from the surface of the whole swelling; the fibrous capsule opened sufficiently, and the tumour shelled out with the fingers or with the handle of the scalpel. The blade of the knife must be only used with the greatest caution, for the purpose of separating the firmer connexions. During the operation, an assistant must constantly sprinkle cold water to keep the wound clear of blood, on which account, also, every spouting vessel should be immediately tied. In sarcoma, the substance of the swelling is often not of a sufficient firmness to permit it being at once shelled out with the finger; it often tears, and the several parts must be removed piecemeal. When the fibrous capsule adheres to the gland, and cannot be freed, the separation of the tumour is exceedingly difficult, and requires the greatest caution. 2438. When on separating the swelling at its hinder part, a very firm connexion #f it to the carotid artery running behind, or through it" substance, is perceived, a ligature may be applied round the tumour, after isolating as much as possible ; or the trunk of the carotid artery may W tied, and the removal completed (</). When the tumour dips deeply, an <•„) Kylt., above cited. (e) See also B«BAnn, Mtt’*di”n^8,w^'iwas! (fA Surgical Anatomy of the Head and Neck, parotide et.dc la region parotidienne, t p V7> 6 que ces Maladies reclament. 1’ans, 1SH1. * ' (if) Zano, Operationen, vol. ii. p. CIS.783 CANCER OF THE BREAST. its close connexion with the carotid artery is suspected, that vessel may be tied some weeks before the extirpation, which will then be performed with greater safety. In many tumours of the parotid, the ligature of the artery will indeed cause, by the diminution of the flow of blood, such {decrease of the size of the swelling as to render its removal super- fluous (a). The previously tying the carotid artery, which was performed by Goodlao (6), does not ensure against bleeding, which quickly follows, from the numerous anastomoses and the quickly-restored collateral circulation. Thence Langenbeck’s (e) advice, when, on account of the expansion of the vessels, or the firm connexion of the tumour, it is scarcely possible to avoid injuring the artery, first, to lay bare the artery, and include it in a ligature, which must be tightened if the vessel be injured, or the bleeding from its branches be great. I have, however, in one (case, where the carotid was closely connected with the swelling, avoided wounding it in the total removal of the tumour, by which the vessel was so perfectly exposed in the wound that I could raise it with my fingers, and in case of having wounded it, could have easily applied a ligature. 2439. If, during the removal of the parotid gland, the carotid artery he wounded, it must be attempted to seize it with a hook, and tie it; but if this be not possible, the bleeding may, perhaps, be stanched by pressure with the fingers, or by plugging, which, at least, has been done on one case of wounded facial carotid with success (d) ; or the wounded part of the artery may be compressed, and the common trunk of the carotid artery tied at once. 2440. After the extirpation is completed, the wound must be properly brought together, the ends of the ligatures carried out in the shortest direction, the edges of the wound carefully closed with sticking plaster, and the patient put to bed with his head a little raised, and inclined to >the diseased side. The accidents which may occur after the operation, as severe inflammation, nervous symptoms, after bleeding, and the like, squire the ordinary treatment. , : -{,haye> UP t0 the present time, performed eight extirpations of the parotid gland, V mnout any untoward accident resulting from the operation. t. Cases of extirpation of the parotid gland are related by tt Piuegek ; in von Graefe und von Walther’s Journal, vol. ii. p. 454; and in > Justs Magazin, vol. xix. p. 303. ’ st Berendts; in the same, vol. xiii. p. 159. t* Schmidt; in the same, p. 312. i' Weinhold ; in Salzburger Medic.-Chirurg. Zeitung, vol. iv. p. 03. ' RD > in Archives Gdnerales de Medecine. 1824, vol. iv. p. 62. r: Chelius ; in Heidelb. klin. Annalen, vol. ii. p. ii. ■ IcCj-ellan, G.; in American Medical Review and Journal. 1820. 1823. U D.—OF CANCER OF THE BREAST. to^O.L ’ Dlssert‘ de °Ptima Cancrum Mammarum exstirpandi Ratione. •thodo.’ ^Tr^S iulFHhenIE i’7o^*SSert’ ^ancro Mammarum eumque novo exstirpandi .fcp) Metl.-Chir „ 1 •• CC Kyll, above cited, p. 18. 5 Bibliothok, vol. i/p.^Oo!' P’ P~* 1816‘ v Y» Memoircs do Cliirurgic Militaire,CANCER OF THE BREAST. 784 Vacher, Dissertation sur le Cancer du Sein. Besam;on, 1740. Pali.ucci, N. J., Nouvelles Remarques sur la Lithotome, suiyies, &c., et sur l’Ampu- J tations des Mammelles. Paris, 1750. 3vo. De IIaupville, La Guerison du Cancer au Sein. Rouen, 1793. Adams, Observations on Cancerous Breast. London, 1803. Rudtorffer, Abhandlung liber die Operationsmethoden_sengesperrter Leisten uudi Schenkelbriiche, vol. i. p. 122, vol. ii. p. 334. Bell, Charles, On the Varieties of Diseases comprehended under the name of a Carcinoma Mammae ; in Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. xii. p. 713. Cooper, Astley, Lectures on Surgery, by Tyrrell, vol. ii. p. 175. , Illustrations of the Diseases of the Breast. London, 1829. 4to. Benedict, Bemerkungen iiber die Krankheiten der Brust und Achseldriisen..4 Breslau, 1825. Cumin, V., A general view of the Diseases of the Mamma, with cases of some of the b more important affections of that gland; in Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal,^ ti vol. xxvii. p. 225. 1827. Brodie, Sir B. C., Lectures on Pathology and Surgery, above cited. 2441. The breast-gland is most commonly affected with scirrlius; but in men this occurs very rarely. As to its origin and progress, all that i has been said generally on cancer of glands applies ; its development and ; ’ course, however, present some differences. 2442. Most commonly a hard lump, round and movable, arises with- < out any previous cause, or after a blow, a squeeze, or the like; as it j grows it becomes irregular and knobby ; a second and third lump is pro- duced, which seem connected together by strings of hardened cellular ■ tissue. As these several lumps enlarge, they become molten into each other and with the gland, and spread especially towards the arm-pit. - Passing, lancinating pains set in, which are not increased by pressure, and spread towards the shoulder, and over the arm. As the swelling in- ; creases, and the pain becomes more severe, they attack the skin, which | assumes a channeled, scar-like appearance, and the sebaceous glands are i often filled with a black substance. The skin becomes attached to the < tumour, which rises considerably at one point, reddens, and thins; the ; veins swell, the nipple retracts, and instead of a prominence, exhibits a hollow. The skin at last breaks, and an ulcer forms, spreading in every j direction, with hard, dusky red, glossy edges, and having a foul, sloughy bottom, though not with any very copious and offensively-smelling: I discharge ; the ulcer is rather a deep cleft, without any fungous ex- 1 crescences. The glands in the arm-pit, on the collar-bone, and *,e neighbourhood, swell up, if they have not so previously. At this time, often even earlier, before the breast has broken, the patient complains !l of rheumatic pains in different parts, especially in the loins and thighs. ^ nutrition is much affected ; the countenance assumes a peculiar ba • j earthy appearance, the arm of the affected side swells, and can no longer I be moved from the body, and death follows, under the symptoms of hec ic > consumption already described. . . This form of cancer of the breast is sometimes developed with a sci ^ rhous inflammation, under which the whole breast swells; or there been previous long existent hardening, or a milk-knot assumes the rhous degeneration. (hfre . [Brodie divides “ scirrhous tumours of the breast into two classes: one * fT® there , is a conversion of the gland of the breast itself into the scirrhous stru >785 CANCER OF THE AREOLA. being no well-defined margin to it; the otherwhere there is a scirrhous tumour imbedded in what appears to be otherwise a healthy breast, as if it were altogether a new growth, there being a well-defined boundary to it.” (p 195.) g ^ orS!ar!afoerm0Jftce-e’/tbe T™? °f which is above described by Chelius, is the seen does nof ’ tbu for“er ls comparatively rare, and, as far as I have hard stony mass wh wi, bu! the whole gland becomes converted into one Sral /rowf ™^ ^ sbaPe of a PlumP> well-formed breast. It, in Case ’and fife S “ the glands m tbe arm'Pit soon become affected by the S^althouXfil! powers are worn out by its malignant effect upon the^n- th^L??l,UlCe?lt!' • lhaY/’, VCT>- receatly, had cases of this the circumstances “ ! haveJost sight of, but ,the otber is slowly sinking under “the operation not mil’ JUSt mentl°n®d- Brodie justly observes, that in such cases the progress of the dis^r^Th^66? “* “akln? a permanent cure, but rather hastens much sooner, from an effusion^nf fl* vi* -dlfS Tutbln two or tlu'ee years> and probably ro.jin , i . enusion of fluid into the cavity of the nleura ” fn iq^ t enlarn-emetn'i1)? nddV6 lnwbichb°th breasts were affected by this general scirrhous the ehesT wl 2 the whole of tbe skin covering the front of breasts and skin ulcerated tub?rfeS ofvari°us size: but, in this case, both months after the ulceration had taken place 5 F*T] ^ heCUC’ ab°Ut thl'ee °r four one'ptnicS™ of S6 frerDtly be°inS With a sin»le IumP at like nroress tL, i &iandJ.and seems to stretch itself by a string- whole gland of thedbreniet ,In the increasing enlargement, the surfaced o-rannlnr 1]reast.2s changed into a firm, elevated substance; its The tumn.L • , „ skln blmsll-red, blackish-red, with a bluish tinge. towards the ofiands^f th^ t0 ^ Td unclerI>’in8' parts, and stretches has n l , t g;fnds °f,tl!e a™-Pd, which rarely fail to swell. The ulcer various parkin0”1’bard’outtu™ed edges, and hard knots are felt at is Considerahi and, ’^neath the skin. The secretion of ichor in the sore death follows under the^bovemelhf“g ; bleedings frequently occur, and 2444 n ’ , above-mentioned symptoms. cancer. b'east, u'fequently is developed as skin- °f the skin wlnAh \ ’n* a bard dttle mark appears at some one spot ulceration ’ ti h g,radually reddens, and with lancinating pain, runs into e-,:.:: •' •<- *“• gWfe, kn°t-lik1e swdli"« of its Me ulceration. A duskv trir’dle in lPaitself 1S attacked and destroyed by affected breast is fuf] ? , tbe ®kin surrounds the ulcerated parts; the AlteredA the/eiShbo-ing PaAs remAn which is reproduced^ as swi^as^ destroyed \ T ^ Surface> t ,ey form a soft vascular funcus nnfl * V. ®Se prowtb's be left alone, panied with throbbing tnin in tl' i genara disturbance follows, accom- •rntable condition of FheTAL ? * bread ’ but lf they be destroyed, the *hich show that the constitution hm^h EarheX or later s)’mptoms appear, h* a yellowish, eart hv^ountena n™ -C°n-e 5 the Patient wastes, Jles> without the breast-gland h,Z,pain.s,In |be back and loins, and often ,2446. Cancer ^S^^.C0MSfrably affected by the disease. Jf the nipp]e> w'hicli is notArinf f”!8 1 a round swelling at the root surface; as it enlarp-es fri ,! U but ls very bard and irregular on its •dud, run from the svvelbmr'tffti *G ®eatshooting, lancinating pains, 'Overerl with a yellowish crust tbe, shoulder. The nipple ulcerates, is tensive ulceration fol ows the^ l S^parates and forms af^h ; more yol. n. oiiows, the nipple is destroyed, and a scirrhous sub- 3 E786 SYMPTOMS OF ACUTE AND CHRONIC stance is laid bare. The scirrhus spreads widely round the nipple, the pain becomes more violent, but the diseased part is not tender to the touch; a crust is no longer formed; the ulcer secretes ichor, and sometimes bleeds.:4 The glands of the arm-pit swell, and the usual symptoms of hectic con- sumption close the scene. . , . According to Astley Cooper (a), a fungous degeneration of the nipple begins the same way. Behind the nipple, and firmly connected with it, a round, less hard swelling6than in scirrhus forms, which is slightly painful on pressure but othen^ ouite free from pain. Astley Cooper also mentions a swelling behind the nipple, which occupies the space of an inch, occurs commonly between seven and twelve years of a°-e is more frequent in boys than girls, mostly on one side, rarely on both, is tender,- often painful when touched, movable, and over which the skin is unchanged. Thial swelling is benignant, and yields to dispersing plasters, and the internal use of calomel > anf AsTLEYbCooPER gives the following account of the development of the nipple mthey fefii and of Us subsequent changes In both male and female mfantsa gland exists, which is the nidus of the future nipple, over which the skin is puckered into a smalli nroiection This glandular substance lies concealed under the skin until near the age oj :s nrnteoted until the age of puberty. It is this structure, then, of the male ana iema e js protectea unt g J ^ time when the evolution of the nipple is com- mencing which produces the swelling to which young people are subject, from <h* ag*- of eight years to the period of puberty ; for when the action is greater ttanflw 1 ^ requires, a hard inflammatory swelling is produced. It ^ n this struct £ future years, the malignant areolar or mammillary tumour forms. Herethe n ) 4 ) 3 . x ' nut Am fit 5 Jt* - ? :•> - ># hi : 1 > A nit Clf •rti rf f Rrahtf savs • “ A scirrhous tumour may occur in rue nippic, * . lf d is ffisrSi originates in the nipple, than where it originates in the breast, (p. 201).] 2447. The symptoms accompanying the development and cancer of the breast are, besides those already noticed, ®ub4«ct b]e ,ime varieties. A scirrhus often exists in the breast for 3Jt .t ■b varieties. A scirrhus often exists in meprwsiiu - —* developed. without causing any inconveniencewhich in otter without causing any inconvenience , wt:ch in other and accompanied with general affection of t le cons i i’eratj,on is often cases only appears at a later period. 1 lie transition intoance 0f the the consequence of external violence, and often o m ^ generally monthly discharge. Sometimes open cancer is little painf , t = highly so; and the more severe the pain m scirrhus and cance^^ quicker is their progress ; hence may be distinguished an acute an cancer of the breast. , , ;n t]ie breast, at Acute cancer begins as a hard lump, deep y ^ which first movable, but in one or two months adherent to the but becomes discoloured. The hardness soon affects tl,e J ^ eiiUstic. as if only a single part projects much, is shiny, purple red,. Jn whitlow- it contained fluid. The pain is very violent and shooting £ The gland of the breast does not enlarge regularly, bat l“ Pt xvith little lin-rs • the glands of the skin seem enlarged, the surface is ■ jeS 0f a vvldte points, which become more distinct as the tumoi which CerEly’-™.. A .rickliug begin, on J[ Sc pl~ may lead to the expectation of suppuration, but this does (a) Lectures, above cited, p. 450. it • 1 nrl > < 8 if !)787 CANCER OF THE BREAST. 3 e 2 ft The scirrhus quickly enlarges, with additional redness and increase of pain; the countenance assumes a painful, anxious expression, and the skin a pale-yellow appearance; and great feebleness and depression ensue. The larger lumps in the skin become black, burst, discharge a little blood and afterwards serum. Unawares the surface sloughs to a great extent5 and the breast is deeply hollowed by an irregular ulcer filled with black sloughs, its edges raised and beset with lumps, which burst, discharge slough, and form deep, foul ulcers. The ulceration spreads by the slough- ing ot these tubercles, and spreads incessantly, farther and farther. That kind of breast-cancer is considered chronic, which is dry and hard as cartilage; when it has acquired a certain size, it crumples together, so that the swelling presents different clefts from the skin being drawn in and wrinkled, in which the retracted nipple is completely hidden. It is specially observed in old, shrivelled women, with dry, tense fibre. Some- times these scirrki open by superficial ulceration, which closes again with a scar (a). The pain is not very great, and the disease may exist for many years without making any great progress. ailIn ma"y1Cafs of seirrhous tumours of the breast, the skin,” observes Brodie “ k wS tL rrkedi1D’ °T t,h-6 tumour’ so as t0 Produce the appearance of a dimple in it here this dimple in the skin exists, you may be almost sure that there is -i s^irrlm ' uniour in the breast beneath it, and on examination you will feel it with the firmer * ** east, but that the skin is already contaminated.” (pp. 197, 198.)] 2448. The interior of scirrhus of the breast is the same as that alreadv generally mentioned. When cut into, it shows an exceedingly hard snh sinfik’ fr°m t ie midst Which White streaks radiate, between these and J connecting streaks, by wldch a fan or net-like tissue is formed ™g :!epflted be/ween them a soft, lard-like substance; in many in nces the tumour forms a large, lardy mass, in which the white streaks spreiTimlpTk intr 7 W,an!ing7 and do not’ as in the former instance -pi . . fimtely beyond the boundary of the swelling (par 23Q=> \ a?0" °f **? -hifo streaks to the tumour is elcSgly ^ Eon ,nkgrnn thGy ftretch much bey°nd tbe irregular hard lLps in inmorhint ?* externa%- Tbe retraction of the nipple here affbids ;i,e centre nf character ; it is produced by the streaks which originate in fn the « 116 amP’ and spread between the milk-tubes of the ninnle lie same way these streaks stretch beyond the bounds nf iP ei "to the surrounding cellular tissue (/,). * ^ °f the Sland v 1 iich'fron^cancer^T°ideVf°ped in the breast, the distinction of 'ever practitionerand 3hltances’exce:ssif difficult to the most liose successfBensU in P °“ ?uch mistake in the diagnosis rest ■een effected bv the ns 1 * f'' T* ^ diversion of presumed scirrhus has re, « y T USe ^ internal and external remedies. Such tumours ^ an?p™ful swdlin* °fthe ^Alari itseV i ! 6 breast t°, the arm-pit J or swelling of the Helling TC , -TenCe °f Chr°nic inflammation ; or continued r v KZfi l mfla™matlon and suppuration. /3, Milk knots P y, Scrofulous swelhngs. h, Herpetic and Psoric affections, (a) Dictionn. des Sciences Mcdicales, vol. iii n nsr. W Charles Hell, above cited, pi. Jif iii. P- ^TUMOURS IN THE BREAST 788 especially about the nipple, e, Encysted tumours. Stcatomatous a < generation. r), Medullary f ungus. 6, Blood sivellings. i, Hypertroph A careful examination of all the circumstances accompanying the orig^ of such tumours can alone direct the practitioner in his diagnosis. 2450. Chronic inflammatory affection of the lymphatic vessels, or the breast-gland, is specially characterized by it being painful on pressur which is not the case with scirrhus. Chronic abscesses in the brea.j sometimes form exceedingly slowly, as hard swellings, in which only ; a late period, fluctuation is indistinctly felt; but the soft part is alwa-, surrounded to a tolerable extent with a hard swelling. It is more readilii mistaken as malignant, on account of the general health being alwavJ more or less therewith affected. Irritating applications and plaster opening the swelling, poultices, and general treatment, which improv the constitution, effect the cure. Benignant hardening is common observed in young people, most frequently between puberty and tf thirtieth year. The swelling is usually superficial, feels as if a lobe of tl gland were enlarged, as if several were united into one swelling. It movable, has no string-like processes towards the shoulder; there is r pain in the breast, shoulder, and arm; no injuring of the general health no affection of the armpit-glands ; and it is not so hard as scirrhus. Tf disease is in general sympathetic with the state of the womb, and occui in unmarried or married women who continue unfruitful. Its occasiom causes, with previous predisposition from uterine irritation, are ofte mechanical violence, blows, and the like. The swelling enlarges ver slowly, never becomes large, remains long free from pain, and in man. cases, only after years, is accompanied with a stabbing, rheumatic pain. Dispersing remedies, repeated leeching, mercury, hemlock, iodin internally and externally, and means which regulate the functions of th womb and improve the general health, often diminish or entirely dissipat the tumour. But if not, if the swelling increase, its removal is indicatec and on account of its mobility, easy ; and it does not return. On examin ing such tumour, a number of lobes are observed, connected with thici cellular tissue, which, when cut through, look like cow’s udder. After the cessation of menstruation, a swelling of this kind ma; become malignant; it may also disappear before that period, durim pregnancy and suckling, although previously it has resisted all remedies. • 2451. In very sensitive persons, between the ages of fifteen and twenty when menstruation is suppressed, or irregular and scanty, and the white are present, sometimes, if the breast have received a blow or push, then may be very great tenderness to the touch, with or without swelling o one lobe of the breast-gland, and pain running from the breast to tin shoulder and elbow, and not unfrequently to the hand and fingers Previous to menstruation the swelling is greater, but after it of less size The sensibility is often so great that restlessness and loss of sleep ensue the weight of the breast is sometimes unbearable, even in bed, and vomit- ing occurs with the severity of the pain. The skin of the breast unaltered, and without a trace of inflammation. Sometimes only a snia portion, and at other times the greater part of the breast is affected, an sometimes both breasts may be attacked at once. The causes of tins con^ dition are always very irritable constitution and disturbed functions the womb. ,j , Belladonna, opium, extract of hemlock, soap plaster, oiled si > Oh.LIABLE TO BE CONFUSED WITH CANCER. 789 • the like, are employed locally, and in violent inflammation, leeches Such • internal remedies as diminish the excited sensibility, and regulate the i functions of the womb, therefore, calomel and opium, and between whiles a mild aperient, aqua lauro-cerasi, or hemlock with rhubarb, should be given; afterwards strengthening remedies, especially the preparations of , iron, with a corresponding dietetic regimen (a). . [All these remedies and a vast many others are frequently employed without the \{ least benefihand patient and practitioner are equally tired of the complaint and of p each other. Matrimony is the most agreeable and most certain cure for tins most vexa- tious ailment, and should be gently hinted to the patient’s friends.—J. F. S.] 24o2. Milk-knots or lumps often present the same hardness as scirrhus. They always occur during pregnancy, or after delivery, from whatever cause can produce inflammation of the breast-gland, as, for instance, cold mechanical mutation, excoriation of the nipple, and the like At first there are either symptoms of inflammation, which subside ior there is not any accompanying inconvenience. Besides these circum’ stances, milk-knots are characterized by their round smooth shape and by their free mobility ; they are generally in the middle of the bi east near the nipple, well defined, not surrounded by any hardened celluhr H«iip and not connected by any strings to the neighbouringpartsftft dim nish ,°r dlSappPfar on the recurrence of the flow of milk • thJy comes on a 860011 pi^nancy’ and generally lessen when menstruatioJ bee™±0tiha;!ia mali°nant aPPearance in old women who have never m Zi l • y-pCCUr aft6r the Cessation of menstruation, if subject Thr«u a J'!ry’ ’ connected with gout or other general diseases the swelling is then harder and more irreo-nlar • th« f es‘ becomes hard around the knot and is connected by strings with'the nSIT prauSfed^^ “ntler SUCh State scirrh0us degmeration° is always to te *egin tool. after del™e„ St ™5r* quanftty of milk. They generally \J*hni ns gradual lessening bv withdraw!™ °f a set”n 1Dto the the speedy secretion fS i the In subse(laeat ^mgs-in, the unrtnrniar-kuble’ as more than a quart of rich n-n™i de!l^ery> wl,ich was thought uncture wlth a lancet. As I was fearful tb«V , g ,nnlk was discharged by a to pass a seton through tent» and stin less sIl°uld I ,ng beea deprived of its sS ’br the Z^0^ Z Chelius; for cavity 00 Opuscuoli di Clnrutgi^vo^’i'i.149, and Benedict- abovc died.790 TUMOURS IN THE BREAST disposed of itself to inflame, without further excitement. And indeed the Surgeon has sufficient to do to keep the inflammation under; for I have seen, in two or three • $ instances, when a small milk-swelling has been merely punctured, such inflammation occur, that the skin covering it has quickly run into gangrene, and instead of one, three * & or four holes leading to the cavity, and subsequent troublesome sinuses, and a spoiled £ breast. The only treatment necessary, is a free puncture and soothing poultices, with purging, to lessen or get rid of the secretion of milk entirely, which keeps up irritation, and by its constant flow prevents the adhesion of the walls of the cavity.—J. F. S.] 2453. Scrofulous tumours in the breast may be easily taken for scirrhus, t and even when they have gone into ulceration they greatly resemble can- cerous ulcers. The age of the patient, the general signs of scrofulous ■ 4 disease, and especially the circumstance that usually several, often a very , n great many, of these little swellings may be felt in the breast, should < direct the practitioner. The treatment consists in the employment of anti-scrofulous and such f remedies as improve the constitution, regularity of living, and the appli- p cation of dispersing plasters and rubbing. 2454. Herpetic and psoric affections around the nipple can produce ■ *1 swelling of the nipple, and even of part of the breast-gland, and by the i spreading of the ulceration, may cause considerable destruction. The origin ;r of the disease, the general state of health, and the above-mentioned {par. a 153) mode of treatment, are the foundation of the diagnosis. 2455. Encysted tumours in the cellular tissue of the gland of the breast are often very difficult to distinguish from scirrhus, especially when the cyst is very hard and firm. The marks of distinction are, the encysted a tumour has no string-like connexions as scirrhus has, it is more defined, rounder, firm and elastic, or distinctly fluctuating, according to the thick- i ness of the cyst. If the cyst be thin, and the tumour near the skin, the latter has a bluish colour. The general health remains undisturbed; the swelling is free from pain, unless there be any disposition to suppuration in the sac. When the fluid is emptied it is transparent as water, with a slightly-yellow colour. The avails of the cavity often consist of a pretty . thick fibrous capsule, on the inner surface of which are red fungous ex- crescences of different size. Only large tumours of this kind need extirpation; smaller ones, with a thin cyst, may be punctured, and by the introduction of a slip of linen, adhesive inflammation, and adhesion of the sac, or its throwing off by sup-1 j puration, may be effected (a). 2456. I consider that state of the breast-gland, commonly known as vesicular scirrhus, or carcinoma mamma hydatidcs, as a steatoniatous degeneration of the gland. The breast-gland, in such cases, forms a I very projecting tumour, the greater diameter of which is not at the Mj*®> I where it is connected with the chest, but at some distance from it. * ' form of this swelling is not globular, but quadrangular, at some parw more, at others less prominent. The nipple is not drawn in, but pro* j minent, and of the natural appearance. At some parts the swelling _ hard, at others tense and clastic, and even distinctly fluctuating. veins on the surface are larger, the swelling movable in every ffircc >°^ It may acquire enormous size, and exist many years before it buI* jp(i reaches the arm-pit glands. In one case which I saw in an unma person, thirty years old, neither one nor the other had happened• swelling can easily be separated. The result of the operation is a (a) Chemus ; in Iieidcib. Medic. Annalen, vol. i.791 LIABLE TO BE CONFUSED WITH CANCEK. Dll I £ X m H® rap i i' I ® ci S«8 ! e 3:17 SC 3' j) IK) i t! i u 1r 5'jj. s-.t- hit' tiv ffeM' >JV . fc •Ui able, if, in course of time, it have not passed into scirrhous degeneration. On examining the tumour, it is found to consist of large and small cavities, upon the unequal size of which the irregular shape of the tumour depends, which are filled with serous, gelatinous, more or less bloody- fluid, or with a lard-like substance, the walls of which are of different thickness, and even of a cartilaginous nature. Astley Cooper distinguishes several kinds of hydatid swellings of the breast. “ The first species of this disease exists in the form of simple bags, which contain a serous fluid. I should call them cellulous hydatids ; and the symptoms which they produce are as follows:—The breast gradually swells, and in the beginning is entirely free from pain or tenderness; it becomes hard, and no fluctuation can then be dis- covered in it; it continues slowly growing for months, and even for years, sometimes acquiring very considerable magnitude, the largest I have seen having weighed nine pounds; but, in other cases, although the bosom was quite filled with these bags, yet it never exceeded twice the size of the other breast. At first the swelling feels entirely solid, so that it bears a great resemblance to a simple chronic enlargement of the breast; but, after a great length of time, a fluctuation can, at one part, be discovered in it, and then the breast begins to increase more quickly; and, in several parts, similar fluctuations can be detected. The cutaneous veins become varicose ; but, although the breast is eminently enlarged, it still continues almost entirely free from pain; but to this there are exceptions. * * * At length one of the fluctuating portions of the breast slowly inflames, ulcerates, and discharges a large quantity of serum, or of a fluid haying its general character, but of a consistence somewhat more glairy ; and the sac being emptied, and the external opening closed, if the fluid be entirely discharged, it is a long time before it re-accumulates ; and sometimes the sides of the sac adhere, and the cyst ceases to secrete. In other instances I have known the swelling break and discharge a mucilaginous fluid mixed with serum; and several of the cells in succession, and at aishint periods, pass through the ulcerative process, and form sinuses which are very diffi- cult to heal. Excepting during the process of ulceration, the general health remains entirely undisturbed, and the person suffers so little, either locally or constitutionally, Uiat her friends do not discover her malady; and nothing would lead her to consent to an operation for its removal but the anxiety of mind and the apprehension which the idea of a cancer produces, and the great inconvenience and distress which the weight of a large swelling occasions * * * It is found, upon a careful dissection, that the interstices of the glandular structure itself, and the tendinous and cellular tissue con- necting it, are, in a great measure, filled with fibrous matter, poured out by a peculiar spccies of chronic inflammation ; but, in some of the interstices, a bag is formed, into wnicn a serous, or glairy, or sometimes a mucous fluid, is secreted, according to the llf, 1e w .inflammation attending it; and this fluid, from its viscidity, and from the solid effusion which surrounds it, as well as from the cyst being a perfect bag, cannot «*ape into the surrounding tissue. * * * Vast numbers of these cysts are found o occupy each part of the breast, producing and supporting a continued but slow an imm"' an.d occaslonine an effusion of fibrous matter, by which the breast forms tumour, consisting of solid and fluid matter. Within these bags of fluid Sch aSfl,?a,ng'ng ^ S?'a,H R:tal!iS * V. ^d a cellular tissue wiff them?fn datids* on thn V? .c,ollec*e,d.’ wblcb* a tbouSb it produced the appearance of cells, or liy- Tl.ic r c outside, within assumed the character of anasarcous swellings * * * reSemfbieS fimple Chr°niC inflam“ation, bufmay be dis- whmh the . by • bsenCe of.teri(lerness upon pressure, and the perfect health in stage* when it fl .eirtir8’! ?5 U l° be “ local disease.' In the second fluctuation and hvthe^hJ* ’S dl*crimmated by observing several distinct seats of ‘he bag , whenthe evLirio r tendernessi but.the b<*t criterion is the puncture of ‘eactaf’th?fru?^3“$clear s£rum’ lnstead of a purulent fluid, at once finguished bv the absence r • t isease. From a scirrhous tubercle it may be dis- company that^maliment r ®8e occasional acute and darting pains which ac- hardness which ire 1 * ec-ion, by the preservation of health, and by the excessive this disease;! thl .con,comitants °f scirrhuaj (p. 20-25.) A furthe/peculiarity of Cooper seen it in both breast!! ^ °tler PartS by absorPtion> I10r bas Astley tfipation Cwhen 'n Puni;turing it, if there be only one large cyst, and in its ex- removed’to Drevent thl° at ected; ln doing which all the hardness must be u 10 Prevent the return of the complaint.792 TUMOURS IN THE BREAST Second. “ The breast was, in this case, enlarged, and, in the greater part, hardened, 1 by the effusion of fibrin, (coagulable lymph,) in lobes, into the cellular tissue; but, in several parts, it contained bags of serum, and formed fluctuating cysts of various sizes. In each of these cells there hung a cluster of swellings, like polypi, supported j by a' small stalk; and the little pendulous projections appeared to float in the fluid which had been produced around them, in the different cysts. Many hydatids were found in a detached state, both in the fluid within the bags, and in the solid effusion in •, the breast- and taking the whole tumour, vast numbers of them had been formed in it. Their size varied, but the largest did not much exceed that of a barleycorn, the figure-i of which they assumed. In general they were of an oval form, or, I ought to say,; oviform as they were larger at one end than the other. When opened, they were: found to be composed of numerous lamella, like the crystalline humour of the eye, or like the layers in the onion, which could be readily peeled from each other, (p. 40 ) “ It is doubtful if these structures are not of the nature of globular hydatids, and which have perished from the pressure of solid matter with which they are ^surrounded; or, r whether they are productions or secretions of the arteries of the part. (p. 41.) they are rare, and extirpation is the only remedy. ...... . . ., Third “ The globular hydatid is contained in a cyst formed in the breast, by the adhesive process; for wherever it is deposited, it excites irritation, and becomes sur- • rounded and encased by an effusion of fibrin which is highly vascular; and its internal and secreting surface is directly applied to that of the hydatid, and a slight moisture exists between them, they having no vascular connexion. In the breast 1 have only seen them exist singly, but, in other parts of the body, great numbers are ■ found It is a semi-diaphanous bag filled by a clear water, and it is uniformly smcwth on its external surface. It has no opening or inlet, so that it must derive its nourish- ment by absorption from its external surface. It is composed of two coats; the external is of considerable density, and if any opaque body be placed behind it, it has the shining appearance of mother of pearl, and reflects the rays of light from its surface. It pos- sesses a considerable share of elasticity, and rolls itself up when it is broken Tto external layer is lined by a very delicate internal membrane which appears to be its uterus ■ for, from its interior, a multitude of small hydatids grow, which, at first, adhere to the membrane, but afterwards become detached, from its falling mtothe fluid which the hydatid contains. If, therefore, the fluid-contents of the hjdatidbe collected ^ a glass, an immense number of small hydatids will be discovered floating in them * * * lam induced to believe them to be distinct animals: first, because they have an existence and growth of their own, having no vascular connexion wuhthe nart in which they are found, but being only encased and surrounded by a vascular and secreting cyst -secondly, because they have the power of producing upon their.nero secreting cysi, J> # * ^ wheu one 0f these hydatids is produced in the breast an inflammation is excited by it, and a wall of fibrin surrounds rtjit ** hard and from the small size of the hydatid, a fluctuation cannot be discovered. as tSe hydatid grow^ although the quantity of solid matter incases, yet as the tod in the hydatid becomes more abundant, a fluctuation in the centre of the_ . be ultimately perceived. Sometimes, when the hydatid has ronsiderabW enlarged, produces a suppurative inflammation; and when the matter is discharged, 7 the lancet, or by ulceration, the hydatid escapes at the °Pe”1°f=- \P- ‘ ' ^inds of [Bbodi* (a) appears to me to have described Astley Coopeb^ “With hydatid tumours under the name of Serocystic Tumour of the Feme j..mphatic Cooper, he agrees that “ it does not contaminate either the glands ; it is not complicated with any correspondent disease of the «^ ^ experience which 1 have had justifies the conclusion, that if cure be takerit1 - tion of the breast be allowed to remain, we need not be apprehensive of jt (p 154.) It is undoubtedly not malignant in the proper acceptation onhe^ h; an(i may go on to inflammation and ulceration, and the ulcer may sP™*^“'L t0 £v that bleedf but it does not contaminate the constitution. Still I a,"fot. Prtp“rsumc a malig- it may not, under certain circumstances, and in peculiar const in tions nant character; this being no more than may happen to almost any morbid gr ^ The treatment consists in cutting into and cleaning the cyst, or in the nitroducti a This’latter form only seems to admit of being held as a pecMiar of^ise^^ the8others as well as in scirrhous degeneration, the formation of larger and i 1 < f v« to.-* ti i 'i-' • in (n) Lectures illustrative of various subjects in Pathology and Surgery.LIABLE TO BE CONFUSED WITH CANCER. 793 cysts and sacs must be considered as accidental, and resulting from the distension of certain cells. 2457. Medullary fungus is developed either in the breast-gland itself or between it and the armpit, as a roundish swelling of which the hard- ness is not so great as in scirrhus, and the surface is more regular. In its further growth the tumour softens; the skin covering it, is at first natural, but afterwards becomes livid; the veins swell considerably ; the surface of the skin assumes an inflamed appearance, and the swelling shows evident fluctuation. The pain is less than in scirrhus; the armpit- i: glands swell more rarely; the nipple is not drawn in, and the skin has not the puckered appearance as if covered with scars. When the tumour opens, it discharges a bloody fluid ; a fungus soon sprouts from the open- ing and bleeds readily ; a stinking ichor is secreted in great quantity. Its progress and reaction upon the whole body is generally quicker than in cancer. This medullary fungus shows itself at all times of life, but it is i most common after the thirtieth year. 24o8. The blood-swelling of the female breast begins with a gradual and moderate tumour of the breast, which in delicate women is not unlike he distension and fulness which occur during menstruation, thou°h Cels’ aanC attfiendf1, Wlt,h m°re UneaSy and conti"ued sensibility. By I degrees a superficial hardness is noticed ; the disease, however rarelv ; more thau a fe>v days! its extant gradZlly L eS \ ill all the neighbouring parts have a feel of softness. In the midst soon \ atTrst^he"brelst’ ““v' ff ^ “ SwellinS’ nearly at the part where rst the breast, on slight pressure with the finger, was more sensible ; Th,| first stage has an indefinite period, two, three, six, o^twelve months' f‘ tommlnC ^occasiona% again seem to ecommence. < The swelling feels like a small conical 01 egg-shaped I easily tw^sted^the'fin''^00^^!™ ^ Sur.rounding Parts that it can be I oan f Vlsted by the fingers ; it, however, is so loosely connected that it SZ ImSr , l0mn We '? sWe- Tl« ski" is neither red nor warm; 1e ■ aTal nTmt^Ihe”4, 6 SUf'r <luI1 sometimes an time causes a fei osZf ,1, “ some'v!lat superficial, and at the same : which no V *1 , f .there were some soft body between it and the skin Jhc of this second stage J centiblf • increase of the swelling may be for years scarcely per- I Sometimes hT?™ 8! may °perate which ma7 effect this in nmnths laSL Itt'rz a"d V-y“rmtmom ^ «“ '•tended to™ In the fir Zt of tlle llca*tii must be carefully natives, must be employed If,t’h, ’/“Pf “B applications and pj- vacualion of the blood be , ' 9GCOn£' i moderate pressure, and careful ‘ the hrZZrZuXXert^)81'6111"8 °“* ^ ~ removal ttlrtoriea of Collections of 1717. Riohtkh. Observations ChirurgictB, pi. j Ho dm a n n, J.; in Edinb. Med. and Surg. Journal, vol.xxx. p. 1. 1828. b »HYPERTROPHY OF THE FEMALE BREAST. 794 In consequence of a considerable determination of blood to the breast in girls unde) twenty-two years of age, there has been noticed, a few days previous to menstruation, r a vibex or a broad streak, as of extravasated blood, with great sensibility and pain.:; M jj which gradually spreads over the arm to the fingers. Sometimes this ecchymosis disap- w pears a week after menstruation, but recurs more or less regularly with it. In severe • cases it remains till the next menstruation. It is not dangerous, but indicates the necessity of regulating the functions of the womb. The best dispersive is the appli- , cation of acetated liquor of ammonia with spirits of wine (Astlev Cooper.) i 1 s 1 < ] S j ] ] ] ] 1 i 1 < ITREATMENT OF HYPERTROPHY OF THE FEMALE BREAST. 795 toms of affection of the air-passages and lungs, dry cough, sometimes frothy, sometimes streaked with blood, difficult breathing, hydrothorax, hectic fever and death. 2460. On anatomical examination of hypertrophic breast-gland, there is found besides the increase of substance and enlargement of some acini, no other variation from the natural structure. More fat is collected in'the loose cellular tissue; the arteries are unchanged ; the nerves indeed, not smaller and thinner, though backward in comparison with the size of the breast-gland; the veins are always much distended, and their structure changed, and the milk-vessels swollen and enlarged. 2461. The cause of this hypertrophy during the period of development is al\\a\s the sympathetic relation of the breast with the internal gene- rative organs, which may be increased, by various causes, as the use of irritating exciting food and drink, irritation of the breast by feelino- it by libidinous excitement, by washing and rubbing with irritating substances and the like. At a later period of life, however, I have noticed this hyper- trophy in women, in whom the functions of the womb were quite reo-ular, and no further cause could be discovered. 2462. The object of the treatment is either the diminution of the excessive formative activity, or the removal of the gland with the knife, liie former mode of treatment, which can only have a satisfactory result, in the beginning of the disease, when at the time of menstruation, a prickling feel in the breast, or its increase of bulk occurs, requires, fe-pecially in full-blooded persons, and congestion of the breasts, bleeding rom the feet and internally, nitre with camphor, vegetable and spare diet, and the avoidance of those influences which may excite the living activity of the affected part. With greater swelling, iodine, burnt sponge with dyitahs, rubbing in ointments of iodide of potash or of mercury, and the application of cloths smeared with camphor, leeching from time to time and continued pressure. After three or four weeks a pause may be made’ when the patient may live a little better, and then the previous treatment maj be resumed. The internal use of extract of hemlock in increasing oses, and the application of camphorated hemlock plasters, I have founcf after previous antiphlogistic treatment, do good service. On the failure of SandmtoanS^INfRHU™ (a) haS,Seen gl'eat effect frora excitin&the breast- g and to action by constant application of a milk-glass, or of a cimoino- fc’as a tl7^ v,6 SWe!!ing is thereby at first increased, the dragging ’ ci subsides’ and \n the course of some weeks the enlargement eeascs with the appearance of secretion of the milk. g and If VPhe °Uh!S trfatmant’ the enlargement 'of the breast proceeds “ml a„d? t ,0n,- e.aff^‘ed’ the removaI »f tho breast i/the only 6 P.at,en'Wl1. ”«• to it, the breast must be sup- portelwtth a suspender, attending at the same time to the secretions and 24^a,,d exercise in the open air. “’d biology JS'oOhe brelrea?f “e"11"'^ generally, applies to the ^ many instanced itl ! ?' } causes.may be internal or external, the irritation ( f tl 1 , 3 Wlblont any manifest cause, and the origin of sympathetic rektinn ^ ^ !na^j' Pei iaPs> in many cases, be founded on the corn “ m“tlng bet"reen the breast and the womb. Hence Women in who, H '/ aPPears aJ. f le period of decrepitude, in unfruitful men in whom the functions of the womb have never been properly er Hypertrophic der Bruate; in Hamburger Zeitschrift, vol. iii. p. 159. 1836.PROGNOSIS OF SCIRRHOUS BREAST. 7S6 performed ; hence sometimes hardening of the breast remains for a long ; while without any inconvenience till the time when the menstrual functior t begins to be disturbed, on which the passage into ulceration quickly takes t place. 2464. The prognosis of scirrhus of the breast rests on the general circumstances above mentioned. The only remedy is it-s removal, and the earlier this is done, the better the constitution, and if menstruation be still . * regular, the more favourable may the result be expected to be. Where the scirrhus is already in the state of concealed cancer, the nipple much drawn in, the skin less free and movable, the general health affected, ; »- menstruation irregular or entirely ceased, the result of the operation is a indeed doubly doubtful; it is, however, the only remedy to prevent certain . breaking. If the scirrhus be already ulcerated, if it be immovably con- ■ nected with all the pectoral muscles, if there be also hardening of other'll organs, no cure is indeed to be expected from the operation; it may,' « however, in so far, in such case, be considered as a palliative, as the patient is at least free from the great inconvenience attendant on the destruction ii of a scirrhous tumour by ulceration. I have not noticed quicker pro- o - gress of the disease after the operation, but on the contrary, considerable t K relief for a long while. The operation is easy when there is only a single t P movable knot to be taken away, but more difficult when the swollen arm- x ' pit-glands have to be removed, which also render the prognosis more- » unfavourable. It is self-evident that the general circumstances already mentioned, which contraindicate the operation for cancer apply here also. I It must not be overlooked in deciding upon the removal of a scirrhous breast, that in the cases where cancer has been very slowly developed and accompanied witli no great pain, that after the operation the ulceration again proceeds even quickly, and thus the operation only hastens the fatal result. Before the operation is performed, an issue should be made in the arm of the affected side, and allowed to discharge properly, and the generally irregular state of the alimentary canal should be put right. [The question as to the propriety of removing a scirrhous breast is most important j and one about which there has been great difference of opinion. Brodie states that “ the late Mr. Cline, sen., and Sir Evebard Home, both men of great experience and sound judgment, would scarcely ever consent to the removal of a scirrhous tumour of the breast under any circumstances; whereas, he has known other very experienced bur- geons who were in favour of an operation, even in the great majority of cases. Ami, not ° i i .i i .i • i• rt' _c _ • • aiw. Knt lie has "TAJ V/ TTT_.IV. X LA AU<U»I '*** 1 ~ ' v C J J ~ . I _ _ only has there been this difference of opinion between different individuals, but he has bn/rnrn ibo /->{* tlm Cnnut in/lixrwlliol fllffnr fit rllfforPllt nPTMOfls. ' ( D* * 9»>« J known the opinion of the same individual to differ at different periods.”—(p-1934 Proof sufficient this to show the importance of reviewing carefully this point o practice. _ ^ .. The general recurrence of cancer after the operation, as more especially shown oj Leroy d’Etiolle’s statistics, has been already mentioned (par. 2408 note); let us now see how it applies to cancer in the breast. « Having a vague recollection of hearing Sir Astley Cooper mention the very smai^ number of cases in which cancer of the breast did not recur after the numerous <4)er^ tions he had performed for its extirpation, I took the opportunity of inquiring of my lions lit; IlUU pci ivn 1UCVA IKfL HO V.AWI |HAIAV/11, A IWU VJAT- VjqiUl IU1I 1 AJ "'T - 1 friend Buanshy Cooper, whether he could afford me any positive information ot ^ uncle’s experience on this poiut. His reply is:—*• I cannot find anything relating to query you put to me, respecting the statistics of his (Sir Astley's) success, bu a recollection of something like your own impression, that he acknowledged not than nine or ten out of the hundred extirpations he had performed did not retur , generally within three years at farthest.” . _ ;s pcr- b Biiodie says“ In the larger proportion of cases in which the pperaUo P formed, the patient is not alive two or three years afterwards; and in a gn. rt 1 ii a «r I ft isEXTIRPATION OF SCIRRHOUS BREAST. 797 cases, instead of the operation stopping the disease, it actually seems to hasten its pro- gress.” (p. 192.) This statement fully bears out that of Lekoy d’Etiolles. * Brodie then at length proceeds to mention the circumstances under which scirrhous tumours are not likely to be cured by operation, and in which, therefore, it is im- proper; and these are briefly pointed out by his enumeration of the conditions suitable for the operation, m his reply to the question, “ What are the cases, then, in which the removal of the breast is proper ? ” “ Where, on careful examination, no appearance of disease can be detected in the skm; where there is no dimple in the skin over the tumour; where there is no diseased gland in thz axilla; where there is no sign of internal mischief; where there is no adhesion of the breast to the parts below; and where the patient is not very much advanced in life ;-in a case where this fortunate combination of circumstances exists we may presume that there is a reasonable chance of an operation being successful. Still I must not be misunderstood, as saying, that in every one of such cases there will be a permanent cure ; nor do I say more than this, that the chance of a cure is sufficient to warrant you in recommending the patient to submit to an operation ; and that I have the satisfaction of knowing several persons on whom I have performed the operation under these circumstances, who are now alive and well, and who, otherwise would cer- tainly have been dead long ago.” (pp. 199, 200.) He then mentions two Lis in the one, the patient was operated on fourteen, and the other thirteen years since and both are £”t 45) “ good health. Bransby Cooper informs ml, that hehad ‘‘ removed f retleH ;^al'gDfnt brea,St°fMrs- ’ and it u-as eleven years and half before it returned in the cicatrix, and then killed her.” In the summer of l sue t „ TZ'Sr, “™r~ of small bean, which had been discovered only two months. In this’case there W The°mre?ri'eDCei ° ,lhe disease’ and the woman has been and still is in good hellth friend ^ h°Wever’ of which 1 aware is one operated on by my ™^„atf0Vh‘S ™”“ was not destr»Jed ““ d««f till twenty-two ess r,36°-' Th.e removal of a scirrhous breast is effected either W or£!i^ the woun"’ 'vhich is then tf beTken holf If Tft SeParated from the swelling, aP, separated from The W 1 the ^S&Ta or with a book, lifted from within out war I muscle, and afterwards from the upper sprinkleTon the wound Z ?T ^ut imvards * and -ater if to Vessels must duri.,7 tb« ?• k ? 14 clear of blood. The bleedim- must during the operation, be compressed by the fingers of theAMPUTATION OF SCIRRHOUS BREAST; 798 assistants, and after its completion, tied (2). The wound must then be* cleansed, carefully examined, and every diseased part seized with the hook i or forceps, and removed. The edges of the wound are to be brought into perfect contact, and fastened with sticking plaster, lint and compresses,' applied, and the whole supported with a broad breast-bandage (3). The after-treatment is according to the ordinary rules. ['(I') The horizontal posture on a table is preferable to sitting in a chair, because the patient can be more completely steadied, and also because there is much less chance ol her fainting; for if, as sometimes happens, there be a large escape of blood, she faints: so completely that the operation must be delayed till she be restored. (2) If the scirrhous tumour involve the whole breast, and. be very large, with nillj swelling veins, the operator must carefully look to the bleeding, and I think, tie at once either arteries or veins, which may pour freely, as in a very few minutes very serious and even fatal consequences may ensue; of such a case I have a very painful recollection. I operated many years since upon an elderly woman who had an enormously large scirrhous breast, and the veins of the skin covering it were much swollen. Before the operationl feared there would be severe bleeding, and proposed taking up the vessels as they were cut through during the course of the operation, but this was overruled, and press with the fingers was determined on, leaving the vessels to be tied after the operation. The bleeding was terrific, aud poured from so many vems that it was not possible to grasp and close them. The operation was not tedious, but I had hardly removed th swelling before the woman had died. A lesson not to be forgotten. , .. . (3) The less dressing the wound of the operation is subjected to the better; and it is certainly advantageousnot to dress it immediately, for many little vessels which have ceased bleeding whilst exposed, and the patient is faintish, burst forth, often furl0ufb’ when thevmumi has beenVought together at once, and the Pf-^Xle^^ the circulation restored, so that in the course of two or three hours, the whole cavity formed by the removal of the breast, becomes distended with ^°od’f ^^fetances in<r makes its way through the plaster, the patient is drenched in blood and >nstan have not been wanting in which her life has been lost in consequence. It is, therefore, a^ec^oT^ine^/noriin^fth^fciff'^wMch s^l«0to^he rannwtjbegot^ drived Neither is the linen to be jammed and kneaded into every crack and cra.myo “r*reptacrf Mor the bleeding ceases. Any vessels which bleed, n drawn together, and and after lour or six hours, the edges of the woundihalf an inch apart, to retained in place by long strips of plaster, c " • ce of linen may also bo allow the escape o/the serum as it separates. A w piece of 1™"™^ the advantageously laid over the strapping, and i P ‘ i ' i ,,jLer’ nut on compress or arterial action of the part, and keeps down inflammat,^. I never put on cm P bandage at the first dressing. With Uns mode of few dressing before the fourth or fifth day, when a poult ce should PI ^jjon hours, to soften the strapping, and facilitate its removal. If"SL1without dis- the breast become tender and inflamed, a light biead and . p oipptira- Srbing the dressing, is very grateful to the patients tinn at anv parts disposed to that process, after which the din close to the subsides. ‘The principal use of a roller round the chest is to keeP the g not c<,m- inuscle beneath, so as to prevent the pus bagging, if the two surfac _ha at ally etely united; and under such circumstances, compresses may also be req the Sdofltie healing of the wound But as a general rule, the lighter ge Sesring Cflwbetter the case proceeds.—J. F. S.] 2467. In amputation of the breast, the skin cuts carried around the base of the tumour, from the pectoral muscle from below upwards, more sure to save the skin than removing the must be divided by which must be deta ^J This method is at 1<* swelling, by one ormo^ more sure to save me ’ fw hp method recommen strokes with an amputating-kmfe, or than by the metnoa lit- i u ; Mr i .n r trt jttt - * 1 !JS1 - Mi.' hs ii» i Jin Ief :SJ iyi -jo ■n nit ■■fj an s# \ Jtit •it ,x -1 it on j *4799 AFTER-TREATMENT. Galenzovsky, of drawing the knife upwards (a). When the vessels have been tied, the wound must be filled with lint, and this fastened with sticking plaster and a bandage. When the granulations have risen ecmallv over the wound, its edges must be attempted to be drawn together with sticking- plaster, to favour their scarring. The wound should be dressed only with lint, without digestive or other applications, and onlv towards the end of the treatment, with narcotico-balsamic ointment. 7 Benedict (b) considers moistening the wound with tincture of opium, and a dressing of opium ointment, as the best means to prevent return of the disease Fvnl‘ g °f ,L of such cases has been I do not know.—J. F. S-] ° ^ ’ Ut Wh t tae issue ao24n8' Ppinions vaiT as to the preference of extirpation or amputation as well, also, as to healing the wound by quick union, or by suppuration granulation. Extirpation and quick union are generally held to lie the most preferable mode of treatment, because the cure is thereby effected most qmckly, a regular scar is formed, and the wound is not so L,! sub ject to irritation as in suppuration, which, under existing d;«r,r>c.-+- 13 b~ readily leads to scirrhous degeneration. Bui itt ligamentous white strings so commonly extend in the^li i * ’ the neath the skin, beyond the bounds of tL turaonr 7d efen'Se ZueR aulVT T'T extirPali0“. amputation must have the preference at least when the skin, though only at some spots is not ’ or even degenerated, and the nipple much drawn in. Thalia™^ of •oundT/ suppurating I mTt fro “fperien^TSy “iTb aveT f •T S of y cellular tissue, or whether there be any trace of tbf> w; • i V r P “T some- “i - * removed. The veils ara to be tiK fT , whil* ie of the gland be so deeo t tT glandls shelled out. Jf ’Ut danSer of wounding the vessels die oTT* ?XtirPated with- t0 itS base> pulled forcibly0 downrUab„db: ^rredp,n ‘S'to Se4”Ty ^rpXfic’cShousl1 in many cases ,)^;:rte and m0Vable lumps in th« breast may he managed with J‘- xii- P- Cot;"' 8 “nd V0N WALr»ER'» Journal, (/,) Above cited. (c) Klein, Chirurgigcho Boobaclitungen, p. 26J.800 CANCER OF THE PENIS. a simple cut, and shelled out. Though most practitioners give the bette > advice of removing the whole breast. If the cancerous degeneration have extended to the ribs and jilcurci, the disease^ I parts should, according to Richerand (a), be cut out. 2471. If the wound do not close perfectly, if several parts have an il y appearance, or if a scirrhous swelling spring afresh from the scar, i must either be destroyed by caustic, or still better, be remot ed \\ ith th | knife. ,1 When the wound has scarred, it should be covered with a soft rabbit' T- B skin, the patient’s mode of living attended to, and issues kept up. e.—of cancer of the penis. Pallucci, N. J., Nouvelles Remarques sur la Litliotomie suivies de plusieurs 01 • servations sur la Separation du Penis, &c. Paris, 1750. 8vo. Loder ; in his Chirurgisch-Medicinische Beobachtungen, p. / 9. Richter, Dissertatio de optima membrum virile amputandi methodo. Komgsbeq ; 1804. Thaut, Abhandlung iiber den gesunden und kranken Zustand des m'imihchebB Gliedes. Aus dem Latein. Mit Zusatzen, von Eterel. Wien, 181a. Siebold ; in his Chirurg. Beobachtungen, vol. iii. p. 349. Schreger; in his Chirurgische Versuche, vol. i. p. 242. Biener, Dissertatio de Exstirpatione Penis per ligaturam. Lipsue, 1816. Dzondi ; in Beitrage zur Vollkommung der Heilkunde, vol. i. Halle, 1S15. 2472 Cancer of the Penis begins almost always on the glans or on th t prepuce, in a hard knot or wart, generally at first unaccompanied wit ■ pain, but when it is irritated, or of its own accord it becomes painful, an h runs into ulceration, which is accompanied with an ichorous, stinking^ charge, and with a hard swelling of the neighbouring parts. The urdm is often destroyed at different parts, and the urine flow* ino-s; the neighbouring glands in the groin are affected. I e have the prepuce long, and a collection of cheesy matter upon the glai- from want <5 cleanness, are most frequently degeneration ; and the prepuce inflames, excoriates, swe«s thicken , narrows still more. Ulceration increases on account passing the water; the aperture of the prepuce sometimes doses comp and the urine flows through several openings m the ed j p ^ which may often be degenerated to a great extent before H e d^ ^ ^ . attacked the glans. In aged persons cancer most comnJ?”1? a„< it way just mentioned, upon the prepuce, because, ) j by th < wasting of the penis, the orifice of the prepuce is more influenced uy discharge of the urine. , . re as no ^ The diagnosis of cancer of the penis requires the grea,e , funff0U s unfrequently syphilitic ulcers assume a cancerous appears*jtl b growths, hard out-turned edges, and lancinating pains, accompa g swelling ofrthe neighbouring glands; m which ca*e rcquisite (b) 1 mercurial treatment, in connexion with sedative rcmet^ a|](i want o 2473. When the disease has arisen from a narrow prepu tfid bj 4 cleanliness, in the early period further destructaon^yb £ , purifying injections, by softening poultices, by drawing o („) llistolre d'nne Resection de. tttes et de l. fcr de la ft* '** " PiLJe. Paris, ‘ ~ -'0 » l lAMPUTATION OF THE PENIS. 801 a catheter constantly worn, or by the operation for phimosis (a). If the warty excrescence have a neck, it may sometimes be easily removed from the base. Sometimes the cancer only attacks the prepuce, without the glans itself being affected, under which circumstance the removal of the prepuce is sufficient. If the cancer be already on the glans and spread further, amputation of the penis is the only remedy. This opera- tion is m general more successful than the removal of cancer from other parts, but an important point is, that the testicles, the skin about the pubes, and the inguinal glands should be free from hardening. confimi 3S t0 the recurrence of this disease certainly do not °the eSrsta~S^ rnH-°fthe r6Sult of imputation of the pads, even l . e,a, y staoe’ as the disease almost invariably returns. I remember one verv CaSe,lr? whlch- under favourable circumstances, the younger Cline removed the whole perns as low down as the membranous part; by detaching it as far as nSe from the pubic bones in front of the scrotum, and then making a cut into the iSns tmXTone?11 7 ^ scraPed ^ ^ ™ to S^y’ panof the• but rem the hulb’ leayiuS ouIy the membranous quicklv and XstvnvL L vd ? a fe7J!eeks took on a cancerous disposition, spread J. F. I.) d d t j d the patlent probably quicker than if he had been left; alone.— lio-tomt ApPU-at'0n of the penis is performed either by the knife or by a mWrl tn e70US *0 t,he operation the 9lans should be carefully exa- Z3e ofTh! Whfll,’e PreP““ al0"e b» affected. As mich as rfthe mil - ’ s'0U d a"aj” be Preserved, as thereby the discharge the urme is rendered easy, and even connexion itself is still possible. near the hiS^T ?6mS by the knife varies> as h is performed penis d Part °f the gl<mS’ °r in the raiddleJ or at the root of the of the glans alone or near its hind part, an assistant draw' thp tU- L b.ehllld the diseased part, with his thumb and finger, and penis whiel "b Ti i P 16 °Perator then takes hold of the fore part of the Cuts it off at °U1 dLbe WrfPped in linen> draws it a little towards him and Part. The bW!in°ke ^7 3 Sma1,1 araputatinR knife through the healthy blood f,. W° vesse]« are then to be tied, and the weeping of the wound i 0mi 1 ‘e sP°h§y bodies stanched with cold water, and after the Sic^eintTed’ a,fTer ca,,lle‘e'- or l>ie“ »f catheter is to above,tbe “rf,lra’ “d ‘he edges of the wound dosed from put over”r Md8aWM if ® P1*?",' So™ 'vads of 11111 ™ then to be hands,4 Thcdni h""11"?6 ff1tened over 11 "*h a narrow 2477 Tr b “ flle “reAm 1111181 he Axed by tapes through its eyes operator “ZTZ Z** middh’ tlle assisla"‘ and the •ithout dSSJ tha t bfor,e tlie Pait »bere it is to be out off, Tying is a? in the ffrmeie OT 11,6 *» of *•» commended thTcut m -T' lhe P]ibic hones> Schuegku has re- don of the stiimn nn,l T 6 7lth reP?ated atrokes> to prevent the retrac- Au assistant presses le,K er *® application of the ligatures more easy. Pubic an.de and Hw? ,U ) {r°“ th? P^rincBum forwards towards the 3k'n forwards divirlitl16 operator having first drawn the penis and the irleries ; after m ikin? 7 Sb"' Up,°n the. ^orsum penis and ties the dorsal Perilous arteries ofW ™?°°Ud C,UtUhe Pfoceeda in the same way with e penis, and after the third, with the cavernous (<i) Eabi.e ; in Med.-Cliir. Trans., vol. xii. p. 289. vOI.. a.802 REMOVAL OF THE PENIS BY TYING. arteries of the urethra, and the bleeding having been thus stanched, the remainder of the penis must be cut through, I he dressing is to be made as already directed. If the bleeding from the spongy bodies cannot be stopped by sprinkling with cold water, the wound must be sprinkled with some styptic powder, covered with lint, and this fixed as already directed. Langenbf.ck (a) proposes to prevent the retraction of the penis in the following way: he cuts through the dorsum penis so deeply into the cavernous bodies, that he can see their white edge and the septum; a loop is then drawn through both, and the penis completely cut through. The ligature serves to keep the stump steady, and to draw it f01'lTprevent the retraction and drawing together of the urethra Babthelemy ») advises introducing an elastic catheter, which is to be bent down by an assistant be- neath the arch of the pubes, and then the penis and catheter to be cut throug . 2479 Of the accidents which may occur after the operation, after- bleedin- requires special attention. If it occur from a vessel which has not been tied during the operation, it must be taken up at once. It from the spongy bodies, it must be endeavoured to stanch it with cold water styptic powders, and pressure, or when this is inefficient, and the leng of the stump permits, pressure is to be made on the tube already intro- duced with a roller, or strips of sticking plaster; but if these means be fruitless, the actual cautery must be employed. Violent inflammation and spasmodic retention of urine must be treated according to the ordinary rules. • • Tile tube in the urethra must not be removed till the scarring is com- plete, otherwise the opening of that canal is narrowed ; and even then it is often necessary, as I have sometimes seen, to prevent the contraction by leaving a bougie in ; on the other hand, there are cases in which without any bougie, no narrowing of the urethra ensues. , After the most successful operation, even m aged persons, whos P creative powers have ceased, there is often no means of preventing low- ness of spirits and melancholy. , t ue 2480. In removing the penis by tying, a silver male catheter mustbe passed through the urethra into the bladder, a waxed silken 'reada,p beyond the diseased, and upon the healthy part of the perns andintto duced into a loop-tier or some particular instrument for tying a This instrument must be screwed so tight that the part befo e g ith shall be deprived of all feeling; the instrument is fp be fetened^ sticking plaster, and the cancerous part covered wjth hnt ai d P On the second or third day, usually the largest F »“ f ‘ may be removed with scissors or bistoury, without j^eedi g I novv on the fourth or fifth day the ligature separates. The tathete> ^ be removed ; a small silver or gold tube introduced into the suppurating part dressed simply till it scar (c). , , m0s( 2481. Amputation of the penis with the ligature is pretc which practitioners to that by the knife. The inconveniences, bowev^ ^ usually arise from the former, as great and continued pain, ‘ f he convulsions and the like may be produced and tbe noatous sloughing mass upon the whole system, by which Gua . ^ ^ iv. (a) Ncue Bibliothek Fir die Chtrurgie und Gbaffk und von W ai.tiifR gsaW' UfehA«i;ll Gln^ie^dfMedecine, vol. xxtv. P (cTbisnib, above cited.—Spfieh, E., Dissert, de Castratione. Herd, 1820.-MjcbAelis, Ueber dta ExsMrpaUon des Penis dutch Llgatur; m von VON ,.„kGbafff »npf‘ p. 331.—Bi.ofmfb, Ueber ‘'',c ,„rhjndiinsstocke'11 gebenen und verbosserten l n cr1” Nene Krf.l^ in same, vol. v. p. 3o(i. - M des IVmb ungen iilter Gk^kfx s Ampu in same, vol. xiii. P* -803 CANCER OF THE TESTICLE. operation is beset, must not be overlooked. The most important advantage has experience had any experience.—J. F. S.] ^ ® e’ ot 'vaic"> however, I have not 2482. As in many cases, although the carcinomatous swelling- increases found healthy, the diseased mass must be carefully removed and onlv amputated “fpjjf1 atl?" haf penetrated more deeply should the penis be amputated. Tins opinion is supported by some successful cases (u) F.-OF CANCER OF THE TESTICLE. Pohl, Programma de Herniis et speciatim de Sarcocele. Lips., 1739 Hzisk, (pras. Heister,) Dissert, de Sarcocele. Helmst., 1754. " “e aiattiuceie. iieimst., 1754. ta, It7? iT* A“°"M °f ““ TesMes. th«e Coverings and Diseases. Lon- Marschau, Yon der Castration. Salzb., 1791. Diseases of the Tested T£dinburgh,' 1794 7dTvo.1 ^ °D Sarcoce]e or Cancer, and other e>"> A 1 ovu. CD«‘'rt'li'tC“li"; “ NeUe MediC- Chirurg.Beobaehtnngen, p. no Beob.eimnien.ljf ["Spam” En,m“»“”e i “ Chirurg. anf Keisen gemaehten Dach, (Pra:s. Metzoer.) Dissert, de Exstirpatione Testiculi. Ktenigsb 1800 Mm, '“O“;C',I>raktis'heB‘!0,,achtu"Senilber die Castration. Fiaokf. 18oi sinna, Ueber die Castration ; in neue Medic-Chirurv Thanh n Dissert, de Sarcoceiotomi ”tl I80,. BC°bi,Ch,U”®“ 33-3r' wwauioutra. V-01., 1B07. 4 41,2 Castration betreffend. Wien, 1810. d ’ 1 h dle verwachsenen Finger • j c °n Siebold, C., Chiron, vol. i. part i. Sammlung chirurgischer Beobaehtnngen, vol. ►MAS. PrilPtinol nhrsr,„ .• _ 1 Ramsim. rr b lrur6]SCller Beobachtungen, vol. i. Ds®"' * TC!,iC,S' L°nd0n' mr- 4t0- ^■stis. London, 1830*’ 0,)servat‘ons on the Structure and Diseases of the °(P^ofondeuI’dM (WKnT’l dV <,iver8 de8™ pro- serve les Malades a l’Amputation du Penis' in Revue Mcdicale. 182(5, vol. iv. p. 337 ’ 3 f 2SCIRRHUS AND SARCOMATOUS DEGENERATION 804 Curling, T. B., A Practical Treatise on the Diseases of the Testis and of the Sper- matic Cord and Scrotum. London, 1843. 8vo. I*«. 2483. The various chronic swellings to which the testicle is subject, and by which its parenchyma is converted into a foreign substance, are usually comprehended under the general designation Sarcocele (Sarcocele, c Hernia carnosa, Lat. ; Fleischbruch, Germ. ; Sarcocele, Fr.) Under /CILO Otfc/ /fcl/OU/, -Litvi.. J 3 — ' ' ' , this term, are ranged together induration, scrofulous and syphilitic swel-41 lino- of the testicle, scirrhous, sarcomatous degeneration, varicose swelling,, i] _ rt • i C4 a noneornila and medullary fungus. Some writers confine Sarcocele to. cancerous.*! deo-eneration of the testicle; others name as Sarcocele a variety of ele- » 1 phantiasis, in which the skin of the scrotum becomes a fleshy substance, attached as it were to a neck, and with which generally the testicle is. unconnected: it is most proper, however, to restrict the term Sarcocele,: simply to the sarcomatous degeneration of the testicle. 2484. Scirrhus of the Testicles is generally preceded by inflammation or other external injury, or it occurs of itself without any apparent cause. Ibe testicle swells, becomes hard ; may continue a long while in this condition >4 without causing any inconvenience ; at last, after some accidental irritation, or of its own accord, the swelling becomes greater, harder, irregular, an knobby, and lancinating pain runs along the course of the spermatic cord. The scirrhosity spreads over the cord, which thickens and becomes firm. : and knotty ; the neighbouring glands swell; the skin of the proton* J adheres to the swelling, at last bursts, and an ulcer with hard out-turn edges, and a discharge of stinking ichor, or with fungous growths, is p duced, and the pain becomes very severe in the region of the loin*jjd spermatic cord. Whilst this is going on in the testicle, the S'e'ieral “ ] becomes very much affected, and the previously-mentioned symptoms set in. The interior of the hardened testicle consists of a hard tallow substance, of a grayish or brownish colour, oftentimes containing dis cells filled with a sanious fluid. .. :s 2485. In Sarcomatous degeneration of the Testicle, its sub.' . changed in the same way as already described of Sarcomam ge» ^ ( par. 2281.) There is an excessive collection of coagulable 1) parenchyma of the testicle; the spermatic arteries and the branc^ t give to the coverings of the testicle are sometimes pretty numerou^ ^ considerably enlarged. In sarcoma the testicle often letains - - 1 ^ a long while, is oval and flattened on both sides, its larger end j(s upwards and forwards, its smaller one downwards and badtwara ^ weight, in proportion to the size of the swelling, is always consi * j on disease generally causes no other inconvenience than that of dragg « the spermatic cord, if unsupported by a bag-truss. It is tree the skin covering it has its natural condition, which is on j - niay on very great enlargement of the swelling. Tie speinia ^ indeed swell, but does not become knotty and knobby. / ^ it comatous swelling be left alone, or if it be irritated ) may run into cancerous degeneration. sarcotna 2486. During the progress of scirrhus as well as jn the collection of water is not unfrequently forl ice of I it a of I'U ri; the testicle, a scrotum, (Hydrosarcocele,) which is to be consmemi swelh"?- the degeneration of the organ. 1 here is then felt a V S the testicle and frequently distinct fluctuation. Sometimes the surface unites with the vaginal tunic into one indistinguishable mass805 wmmmmmammm OP THE TESTICLE; TREATMENT. 2487. The distinction of scirrhous and sarcomatous degeneration of the testicle from other swellings which occur in its parenchyma or its covering is m most cases exceedingly difficult, and requires careful examination tf the swelling and of the way in which it arose. Swellings of this kind are tlnckenmg of the cellular tissue of the scrotum; second, hydrocele- thu-d, hydatid or cystic tumour of the testicle; fourth, harden!L 0f the orTAhe tf th,e; teS^Ck 5 of the tunica albuginea or of the testicle; sixth, induration of the testicle consequent on Lute 18 a"d SyPhi"'liC ^ • 2 L'f *hickenin9 °f the ™lMar tissue of the scrotum, which IS infiltrated by a quantity of fatty, watery, or bloody fluid forms a swdling with a broad base, and at the same time attached ti a stem of wInch the size is sometimes so considerable that the penis is comoletelv ZZ ih‘ °Pf,'""K of !he. Prepuce has the appearance of a navel at the ■ “d “fJhe s'velIlll«> «* patient is prevented walking. iJVdeht s sometimes as much as one hundred pounds. Externallv the feipTh^ :irjtne£ ;„rr„ebLte h$:r S3? W Se-- HHS less h«.Ub' ’ ”di secreting an ichorous fluid. The swelling is pain 4he testicle and spermatic cord are e-enerallv natural i ei&ht. vessels are leno-thpnerl TtP r ^ • era11^ natuial, only the spermatic althnLl n lengthened. This disease is most common in hot countries although it has also been noticed in France Eno-land ™d p 1 ’ 14$?10 V\hen the disease has not attained a very great height it, drinks. Externallv hv lotion 1 ' ^ ln email quantities with mucilaginous front of the aperture of tIus purpose two cuts are made in other, and run down on both sides beffiw'the tespT^^ ,bel<?'v from each « aH between the cavernous bodies of the .estl(des. In these directions care must be taken to avoid the testiel ^mtS and. tbe testicles, in which b*lies, and the whole mass below he ^ COrds> and cavernous ; remainder of the sarcmmtr 1 ie '.ne of tlie cut removed. The vesfls must be tied at once andTe ed"^' f 8u'elled 0ut The Weeding sticking plaaTcCii'^p^TrtXTo) ,0B“"ra' Jtlrd0M no‘ ~ •— - - - „ ,,h,e „e SSffl; “h™1- n. p. m-voTvC P *o-. rifth Edition.—Titley ; in Med - RIKP 8 K-uPferta^n> Pl- exxvi.806 REMOVAL OF SCROTAL TUMOUR BY KEY; mistaken for disease of the testicle itself; but with careful examination it is scarcely possible to mistake the one for the other. In some instances, however, the scrotum seems to participate rather than give origin a to similar growths of cellular tissue, with adhesive deposit in its cells, which has been already mentioned, (p. 711,) and which has, perhaps, been not very correctly spoken of as elephantiasis of the scrotum, these sometimes acquire very enormous size, and have occasionally been removed. Some such have been already noticed, but as their removal is attended with considerable danger, it would seem, from the sudden loss of venous blood, it will not be improper to advert to the subject again. In Liston’s case (a), already cited, of the tumour which weighed nearly fifty pounds, a and was removed from a man of twenty-two years of age, the disease had commenced > when he was only ten years of age, and had gone on increasing gradually from that time It measured forty-two inches in circumference, and forty from the verge of the anus' to the pubes, betwixt which parts it was attached. The greater bulk of the tumour lay behind, and extended lower than the patient’s knees. * * * The incisions were made from behind. I had intended to preserve as much of the genitals as I might find it possible to do, on examining their attachments and connexions with the diseased.! mass. But immediately on the bistoury being carried round the base of the tumour, the hemorrhage was so profuse that any attempt of the kind had to be abandoned, for the more essential and immediate object of saving the patient s life. " - The tumour was therefore detached as rapidly as possible,—in not very many seconds,-and the mouths of the large and numerous vessels running into it covered as they .were divi e , by our fingers. The flow of blood was compared by those present to the discharge of water from a shower-bath, so instantaneous and abundant was it. Before half the ves- - sels could be tied, the patient had sunk off the table without pulse, and with relaxed muscles, voluntary and involuntary.” From this condition he was recovered, and then, in his Practical Surgery Liston states, the remaining vessels were from twelve to sixteen, but whether they were arteries or veins is not mentioned. In three weeks he was able to walk about, and soon after the complete cicatrization of the wound ook place. The tumour is in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons of England The following is Key’s case (6), which from its enormous size excited great inter* • Hoo Loo, aged thirty-two years, ten years previous to his admission (March 1,, ) into Guy’s Hospital, “first perceived the extremity of the prepuce to swell.and become hard, and it continued to increase for about four years. At the end of thisi p scrotum began gradually to enlarge up to the present time, when jj^d^qmred th enormous magnitude of four feet in circumference, its increase having been for the ■ two years remarkably rapid. * * * The appearances of the tumour at the operation (April 9) were as follows-.-Its body was of a flattened spheroidal form f u feet in circumference, and attached by an equilateral triangular neck ofhalf that which, opposite the pubes, measured exactly eight inches across, and exte ded inches and a half beyond each external abdominal ring. Hie other sidisi cor , P^fore to the lateral boundaries of the perineeum, and met at an acute ang w- a[)0Ut the anus. Its length was such, that when the man was erect, its lowest l*>iiints opposite to the tubercles of the tibia:. On its neck and latera p ’ thickened, were healthy in appearance, whilst on its anterior part they were c - ii'u]cerations, indurated, and had a tuberculated honey-comb appearance, with“““ ,)J)dv 0fthe from which a slight serous transudation took place. New the cen concealed the tumour, an irregular projection, supposed to be elongation o P I . „ ^emed orifice from which the urine escaped. The integument covering t P J wjth more diseased than that of any other part of the tumour, being c siJ , vate)j ridge numerous small elevations of the cutis, and from tins projection, was the extended backwards through the medium line of the tumour, and evuk tB ^ ^ enlarged raphe of the scrotum. The plan of the operation was th • . an(j a flaDS • one from the upper part of the neck of the tumour, to envelope 7 » In Silicone on c.S Jo to form a cov.rms.for .he W making the first lateral “ incision, several large veins were divided, which l during were immediately secured by ligatures This flap was it,'e" AJ’Sdcul.rly which several large vessels were tied. At the lower pait of the * P> ;te side, taTrtto™ secured. A Hap of .1* kind jjJ’’K of *• during which, but comparatively few vessels were divided. tpe right one, a operation consisted in laying bare the cords ; and in cutting down upon the rg^ ^ (,i) Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal, (b) Removal of an d PeriJtmi,in vol xix. p 5611. 1823. This account is the most circumstantial, and is that here quoted. (b) Removal of an rrr,„rum i " ing the region of the 1 «brf 93. 1831- London Medical Gazette, vol. vin. P-807 BY O’FERRALL. small artery, the first that was seen, was tied. At this time, the patient’s powers appeared so depressed, that it was determined “ no further attempt should be made to save the penis and testes.’’ Mr. Kef, therefore. “ passed a temporary ligature round each spermatic cord, and then divided them. A band was then passed round the penis in the same manner, which was then cut through about an inch and a half from its root. The tumour was now dissected from the perinccum, which occupied but a very short time • in this separation, two small arteries were divided, and instantly secured. The ligatures were then removed from the cords and penis, and each spermatic artery tied separately. During the greater part of the operation, and especially towards its latter end, the man’s powers were greatly depressed, and two fits of syncope occurred, yet after it was finished, his pulse, though weak, could be felt at the wrist. However, in a few minutes another fit of syncope came on, from this he never rallied.” Every means to restore him, including transfusion, were in vain. The operation lasted an hour and three- quarters; this was principally occasioned by the necessity of tying so many vessels the whole of them veins, with the exception of three very small arteries, besides the two spermatics ; and by being delayed during the two fits of syncope. Although upwards of thirty ligatures were applied, not more than twenty ounces of blood were lost and of this scarcely one ounce arterial.” * * * The weight of the tumour, when removed, was 1 °U,nCeS' • Ml'- Key was decidedly of opinion, and expressed him- self to that effect, that the patient’s death was occasioned by the loss of blood which though by no means excessive, from the precautionary measures adopted, yet made an come * ? T S? ble system“ Asiatic, which his powers were unable to over- eome. The tumour was found to consist of the cells of the cellular membrane ffidnrfSd ^ contaminS a yellowish dense serum. Some parts of the tumour contained honlht J “Vresembling cartilage. The tumour, when entire, undulated, and was S a^ is u^nal°in0n/aiA & <lUantify °l flu'd in 0ne CyRt! but the fluid was con- rmarbkins“ze” elePhanhasis’ ln cells of various dimensions, bu tnone exceeding LisloV^natielt6 n’P rGSUlt ^ Case’ a?d als° from t,le violence of the bleeding in ope ratine- on ‘‘on ° FeRRABL <»’ to fuard aSa,nst such untoward circumstances, in S'®0" , an enormous tumour of the scrotum of a man forty-four years of a-e which descended nearly to his knees, disabled him by its great weight, and had neariv i Plan ^of1 5“ •Stre?|gth h'V Pr°fnse bleeding from large veins on its surface,” adopted the lemrth nf P!fm ^ patIeBt on hls, back’ and having the tumour poised for a sufficient result Wfi iV° empty Us vessels before the incisions were commenced,” and the harri J irfied bls expectations. The disease had commenced ten years before in “ a whieh^cnnT °n,the cord’ ‘he size of a marble, about an inch above the left testicle” veffis of^U t!Ued Pr0gressive,1y,t0 enlarge. * * * The last hemorrhage from the tion w-i! l,JUm°Br am10unt<-‘d> he was convinced, to two quarts of blood. The exliaus- Wi. fr.eat> aad rendered him for some time unable to pursue his avocations ” H arose bva^Mlich0 f aft, H°Sp,itaI’ “ the figure of the • hnvp m7 a,p e from dle Pubes and perinccum, and expanded in its descent into a The thG tw,d“‘ portion °f -hich was about four inches above its lowest nart the nl / ® mGn^S wblcb covered the pedicle were evidently borrowed by traction from rte°mmoand gr°,n’ and preSented four distinct and XsedTsurfL^ Sdl?* ’ ‘ 7aS marked, b7 nUmer°US large venous trunks, vhfch in the ill surfdce’ and lay in furrows easily traceable by the finger A smu 1 nicer r. r nr F ^ sas A*twoorth^SiSrf^™5^“0,^£,,“ solld* though not gristly to the touch, ’hng fluctuation.0*1*15 ° * Of the R degree of Elicit/closely resem- Pfojected from the integuments n {, ”*1’ t,‘C Pbl,‘s Wi)-S the only portion visible, it remainder of this ore-in i . point about three inches below the pubes. The to the fundus of the . g‘ W S buned ln tbe morbid growth. * * * From the pubes Jundus of the tumour measured twenty-eight inches ; the circumference about its p 521. ^“t^Turaour^of the Scrotum; in Dublin Quarterly Journal of Medical Science, vol. i.REMOVAL OF SCROTAL TUMOUR. 808 i.< t middle was twenty-two inches and a half. The weight of this enormous mass was the principal source of inconvenience.” The operation was performed on the 29f/i Novem- ber, 1844. After making a puncture into the elastic part of the tumour with a trocar, through the canula of which nothing but a little blood came out, and the patient being . - placed in the position for lithotomy, “ with a large broad-backed bistoury, O'FEKRAiX-tri made in the perinceum two straight incisions meeting at an angle, salient towards.- s < the anus. Keeping close to the tumour, the incisions were carried rapidly rounds *>i its under and lateral surfaces, exposing on the right side the covering of the testicle, and on the left a bunch of cylindrical convolutions as large as the finger. * * * Their v I uniform blue colour, solid feel, and entire absence of gaseous contents, at once con- ■ vinced us that it was an enormous varix of the cord of the left side. The tumour beings id • uow detached as far as possible laterally and underneath, was allowed to descend to a I nearly horizontal position, in order to complete the operation in front. Two straight 1 incisions carried downwards from the groins, were made to meet at an angle, so as <-r- to include a portion of integument capable of covering the urethra, and fitting into the < incisions previously made. The tumour was now rapidly detached, and the cord being sd held, was cut across. A few strokes of the bistoury completed the separation of this 1 enormous mass from the body of the patient. The vessels of the cord and a few small * subcutaneous branches were now secured, and the patient was put to bed. The loss of blood was very inconsiderable, not exceeding perhaps four ounces.” The operation - ft was completed in eight minutes. After a few hours the flaps of integument were w brought together with sutures. About nine days after the operation the patient was : attacked with erysipelas, which spread down the thighs, upwards over the body to the • t nd face, and after about seventeeen days subsided com- « shoulders, then over the scalp and . pletely. Shortly after he had a fit of acute rheumatism, from which, however, as well as the general consequences of the operation, he rapidly recovered. On examination of the tumour, “ a loose capsule of cellular tissue enveloped the morbid growth. _ A section carried through its middle showed that the whole was perfectly solid, and with- out the slightest appearance of a cyst. The cut surfaces reminded us strongly of the section of the larger varieties of fibrous tumour of the uterus; whitish, with the slightest possible tinge of yellow. The substance appeared to consist of a number of lobules, separated by lines of condensed cellular tissue, and marked here and there by * minute granules of calcareous deposit. The greater number of bloody points presented ■' j bv the section, however, distinguished its appearance from that of the fibrous tumour ot H y ^ « 1 1 » 1 1 a. 1,1 „ A ^..^’.4-,- « tlno intern1!*- the uterus. Some of the lobules almost resembled in density' a section of the interver iue uterus. uumv ui tuv ‘''ou.eu * -j tebral substance Others more elastic appeared to have undergone a change approacn- - .I.- t— „e riioanco This imnrpssinn was confirmed by Hr. ffl ing the character of encephaloid disease. This impression was confirmed by ur. Houston, who found that it presented under the microscope the mixture of fibres and cells, characteristic of malignant structure. It was in these situations that the decep- tive feeling of a cyst had previously existed. The left testicle was, after a cata search, found to occupy the position mentioned by the patient. It was atrophied, du otherwise unchanged, and lay enclosed in its moist and polished tunica vaginalis, i cord above it was lost in the tumour.” In the very remarkable case related by Bennett (a), the disease had “nine or ten years before, in the form of a swelling on each side of the groin, '' ■ - - • - ’ ’ ’ ’ united and formed one mass gradually increased in size, descended, and, he says, united and forme . entirely covering the penis." The tumour has been gradually increasing ro , time, and has now reached to the insteps. The weight of the tumour, so lax be ascertained, was about ninety-six pounds avoirdupoise, and the size, by - measurement, was found to be as follows :—The length from the crest of the /> the base (bottom) of the tumour, two feet five inches; circumference of the upper t - just below the pubes, twenty one inches; of the centre, four feet; of the just below the urethra, four feet eight inches. The tumour was at some parts smoot at others had a wrinkled appearance, excepting at the lower part ot Us rig*' - which was tuberculated and livid; the general colour, however, was a dirty V* ated sub- operation was very callous to the touch, except at the upper part about the pubes, an.d ? * „ib- below. The tumour was composed, as appeared on cutting into it, of an mail ion stance, about the consistence of cartilage, and of a similar white colour, no op was^perfonnej: have been noticed, that the scrotum was only secondarily. not primarily affected.] ^ fa) Case of enormous Tumour of the Scrotum Southern Pacific Ocean ; in Lomion Med* in a Nafive of the Island of Tahiti, (Otahcito.) zette, vol. tin. P. 101. 1831-809 CYSTIC SWELLING OF THE TESTICLE. 2489. A simple hydrocele cannot well be confounded with sarcocele. Only at first, when the collection of water is not great, it is sometimes accom- panied with severe pain on account of the distension of the vaginal tunic which, in connexion with the great hardness of the swelling, may lead to a mistake. But when that tunic is considerably thickened, and even cartilaginous, the feel is easily confused, and the practitioner may mistake the swelling for hydrosarcocele. In this latter complaint, however, the hind part of the swelling is generally harder and knobby ; the spermatic cord is also usually knotty, and there is lancinating pain. In doubtful cases puncture always resolves the difficulty. 2490. Cystic swelling of the testicle begins with a thickening of the epididymis; it is, however, generally only first noticed when&the disease has spread over the testicle, and has made some progress In addition to the swelling, the testicle retains its natural form, round in iront, flattened on the sides, and not so bean-shaped as in hydrocele. Between the testicle and the epididymis, usually, though not always, the natural me of distinction still remains. The swelling is not tender if not sub- jected to violent pressure, but when smartly pressed, the patient feels as if lV ft WT sc£eeZeCi-. The tumour yields to pressure, though it not show true fluctuation ; if it be compressed at one part with the nvff’ -P ?S n0t! raiSed- at a,?other Part> but merely appears to yield all , ' f ,ai“ &ud, uneasiness in the loins are produced by the weight and size of the testicle, although the disease still remains local a ?*a“ininS a testicle of this kind after removal, the vaginal tunic is ound thickened, in part adherent, and the tunica albuginea firmer • the testicle appears to consist partly of firm tissue and partly of cysts, the size of Which varies from that of the head of a large pin to that of a musket-ball smaller cysts, of which the walls are very vascular, contain a serous i a muc°r yd °Wlsh flllld’ and the ,ar8'er> of which the walls are thick, have efferent s"b®,“fe* f™ Cooper believes the cysts to be obstructed fferent tubes, into which a diseased secretion is poured out Nothing SSe%:Xnrl,ahM°ori0naI ^^ ussr ln ,,,tlroce,e- ^ makes only irreoulnr «i, . ’ IG fuelling is in these cases painless, water in the Va<?irnl t Pr2^"es®’ aiK^ ln general there is a collection of testicle, and docs nnI'n1?’ •. lie disease has no relation to cancer of the developed in the / • rt’r*,ura extirpation. Scirrhus may, however, be oped in the tunica albuginea which has adhered to the vaginal tunic, («) Astley Cooper, above cited, p. 6J.810 MEDULLARY FUNGUS OF THE TESTICLE. in which case, the scirrhosity in general attacks the epididymis, but th< testicle, although surrounded with some serous fluid, is either little or no at all altered. Several observations appear to prove that after extirpation of the testicle, its recurrence is to be but little dreaded (a). 2492. Fungus of the testicle, or of the tunica albuginea, is a peculiat disease, easily mistaken for sarcoma. In general, after external violence' . or after a clap, a swelling of the testicle begins, which is often very con- siderable and hard. A small abscess forms, with severe pain, bursts, anc- t out of the aperture a, fungus gradually grows. If, in this complaint, aftei the inflammatory affection of the testicle has diminished, the testicle itself be- not very greatly enlarged or hardened, it is best to remove the fungus anc: : the diseased part of the testicle, without taking away the latter completely, u This is best done with the knife, and in some cases the ligature or caustic l*; may be employed. When the whole substance of the testicle is attacked-ik with this fungus, it must be completely removed. The mere swelling and - . induration of the testicle, often ceases gradually after the extirpation oi i i the fungus, and with proper treatment (b). _ Bj . 2493. Induration of the testicle, as a consequence of previous acute > a inflammation, presents a hard, usually irregular, though not rarely, knobby '! swelling, which is more or less painful on examination, but gives the‘:c patient no lancinating pain. Repeated application of leeches, softening poultices, rubbing in mercu- r rial or iodine ointment, and continued rest, usually effect its dispersion. Scrofulous swellings of the testicle are less hard and painful than scirrhus: the testicle is thereby converted into a yellowish-white coagulated substance, Mii like that found in scrofulous glandular swellings; but the spermatic cord is, for the most part, in its natural state. The swelling, however, tre-J quently runs into ulceration, forms a painful readily bleeding fungus; the:| spermatic cord swells, and not unfrequently there is scrofulous degenera- ■ In most cases these swellings are resolved by proper general treatment, and by the local application of resolvents. f Syphilitic swellings of the testicle and spermatic cord, in consequence of an inveterate pox, arise slowly, without any occasional cause, am. commonly are developed in the epididymis. ,. • _ A regular mercurial treatment most commonly eflects their disp ' 2494. Medullary fungus of the testicle is distinguished from-sarcoce , by the more speedy growth of the swelling to a large size, *ie a . . of all hardness and irregularity, by the very indistinct pain, > 1 sive feel of fluctuation, by the quick affection of the spermatic cord, the spreading of the disease into the belly {par. 2295.) *. nished 2495. Most of the above-mentioned diseased states are distil s. ^ from cancer of the testicle; they may, however, even if !ett J ' fore treated improperly, run into cancerous degeneration. It is, for necessary when suitable treatment has ^en employed without en some time, to extirpate the testicle, because thereby alone is the 1 as^ into cancer prevented. For scirrhus of the testicle t,ere'ted loCal remedy than extirpation. In sarcomatous degeneration, by rep renie- bleeding, by dispersing applications, and by the internal u_e o t» ft * •b 4: si' it1 u ■ 1 Dictionnaire des Sciences Medicates, vol. i p (fcl Lawrence ; in Edinburgh Med. and Surg. J< Medicates, vol. i. p. 16.EXTIRPATION OF THE TESTICLE. 811 dies as promote absorption, the unnatural vegetative process may be kept down, or by tying the spermatic artery, the tumour may be diminished or its growth prevented. 2496. Extirpation of the testicle (Castratio, Lat.; Entmannunq, Germ.; hmascidcition, when both testicles are removed) is for the pa- tient a very painful and, in cancerous degeneration, as to its consequences a very doubtful operation, as recurrence of the disease is very common’ The expectation of a favourable result is greatest when the disease has been the consequence of external violence, is not connected with any general affection, and all the degeneration has been completely removed. It must be held to be contraindicated when there is any existing general disease, on which the disease of the testicle depends; when the neighbouring glands are swollen, and there is also disease of the spermatic cord, when the hard- ness extends so far up, that excision in a healthy part is not possible. If in such case there be also dragging pain extending up into the loins; if the swelling of die spermatic cord be hard, knotty, and the seat of lan- cinating pain. From this scirrhous degeneration of the spermatic cord which in rare cases may precede the swelling of the testicle, a simple bvTol bewT °f C°rd may be diytil,g'llished by its regularity, and hi 5, S -kn?bby’ and by diminishing towards the abdominal rimn A swell nt K IessemnS when the testicle is supported by a bag-truss! A swelling of the spermatic cord may also depend on serous infiltration conneLdTn ^h6" Wkh sarcocele swellings in the belly are as " , d V'hlcb °n closer examination can often be distinctly felt, -JSjStp"of cancero"s the <*«■*» neralK-^n6 swelJ*nS's which often form enormous masses in the belly, occur indeed bp ^UfZtorSfUn9US °f the teSdCle; 1 llaV6’ h0W6Ver’ -n Vm ra,snod??’tS cnfl97' F°n the P,]rP°se of rendering the removal of the testicle in «ar whTchhTh U0US’ 7ALTfER {h) HaS Pr°P°sed tying1 the spermatic artery hich has been performed successfully by Maunoir (c). This operation can however, only apply to those diseases of the testicle, in which a vZ Jious deposit of plastic lymPh into the cellular tissue of the testicle X :nnatural development of vessels and sarcomatoui degene > but no passage into cancerous degeneration «'»s rs (t,e throush the spe™a,ic c°rd icfe49i?' 'r!ing ,he ypermatic arte,-, in sarcomatous swelling of the tes- elt tl b j Uie PuIsatIon of the very much enlarged artery may be (6) Neue Heilart des Kropfes, u. s. w., p 40 Sulzbach, 1817. p (c) Nouvelle Metliode de trailer le Sarcocele sans avoir recoura a 1’Extirpation du Testicule Geneve, 1820. 8vo. (d) WEiNiioi.n; in Hufkland’s Journal vol viii. part iv. 1842.EXTIRPATION OF THE TESTICLE; 812 2499. The removal of the testicle is performed in the following wayJ < The scrotum and neighbourhood of the abdominal ring having been isl cleared of hair, the patient should be placed horizontally on a table ! [*;i The operator standing on his right side, nips up the skin in an oblique fob 11 over the spermatic cord, gives one end of it to an assistant, and himseli i holds the other with the thumb and finger of the left hand. This fold is novla cut into in the course of the cord, and extended upon a director up loward.||* the abdominal ring and down to the bottom of the scrotum. The cell* 3 lular tissue surrounding the spermatic cord is now to be separated by sonn -o< cuts lengthways on the sides, and the cord lifted up, the cellular tissueS beneath it being thus made tense, is cut through with the knife held flat:|®L and as the knife is brought back, the operator passes the forefinger of hi;. > left hand into this opening, thereby stretches the remaining cellular tissue and with his finger separates the cord up to the abdominal ring. Th< testicle being lifted up to lessen the stress upon the spermatic cord, an assistant grasps the cord above where it is to be cut through, and the operator holds it below, passes the knife beneath and divides it at a stroke* i® The arteries are now to be taken up with forceps or with a hook, anti having been cleared, are to be tied. The testicle is to be shelled out o; the scrotum, by which wounding of the urethra and the septum scroti arc: avoided. All the bleeding vessels are to be tied immediately. When the skin of the scrotum is diseased, or firmly adherent to the tumour, it must he included either between two semilunar cuts, or after the cord has been divided, and the arteries tied, the testicle, and the skin covering it, must be removed with the: knife, by which all injury to the septum is avoided. Any other practice for stanching • the bleeding, than tying the vessels, is improper. If the cord escape from the assistant, and retract into the inguinal canal, it must be A E attempted to seize it with the forceps and pull it out, or even the external wall of the " canal must be cut into (1). Aumont (a) cuts through the skin at the hinder part of the scrotum, which is to be j raised and turned to the opposite side, from the bottom of the swelling to the ab- dominal ring. The testicle, which is laid bare by this wound, is then to be dissected up, and the cord bared to the abdominal ring; the testicle is then held by an assistant, and the cord, with forceps, by the operator, who cuts through it, and ties the arteries. The advantage of this is, that a smaller cut is made upon the least feeling part of the scroti"", and that the cord is more easily laid bare to the abdominal ring; hence its division and J the tyiDg of the vessels is more easy, there is less danger of after-bleeding, the escape | of the secretion of the wound is more free, and its union better. [(1) The escape of the cord immediately on its division is a very tiresome, and, t»» young operator, very perplexing accident; to prevent its occurrence, Astley ( ooper used to advise passing a thread through the cord, above the place at which the division was to be made, which gave full power over the upper end of the cord after i division, and the thread was removed after the spermatic vessels were tied. I Pre J* passing a strong tenaculum through the cord, which answers the purpose quite as we , and is more quickly done.—J. F. S.] 2500. If the spermatic cord be degenerated so far towards the a - dominal ring that it cannot be held fast by the assistant, a ligature siiou be passed round, after isolating it, which should be bound to a piece o wood, and there held till the artery have been cleared and lied. Lo t w case alone should the complete li/ing of the whole cord, by many conside as the proper mode of proceeding, be confined. The tie should tlien made as tight as possible, which alone prevents the severe synip on caused by tying nerves. If the degeneration extend so high up on spermatic cord that it cannot be cut through in a healthy part. (n) bulletin do la Socictc d'Emulation de Paris. 1822. April.813 TREATMENT OF UNDESCENDED TESTICLE. guinal canal must be opened, and the healthy part of the cord there cut through (a). [Much stress was formerly laid upon not tying the whole cord before dividing it, on ac- | COUI't.°f,the seventy of the pain ; I cannot say, however, that I ever noticed it so violent as stated, or, indeed,worth noticing, in the many times I saw it tied by some of the older s*| SZSTV!l the early °£»y studentship. But tying the cord is objectionable for thronth bCThp reaSOn’ w£lch ls the leneth of time the ligature requires to ulcerate throueh The younger Cline managed the matter differently; he used to pass a ' r Zk thlead aroun,d the cord, brought both ends through a piece of pewter catheter I *iUP0L-aL -C+k at n‘e t0p e“d’ and then twisted stick and string,^ill like a stick’ ; £»■Tz sr A IS i j 1- ££ 2501. When the removal of the testicle is completed, the wound is to 1 be cleansed the extremity of the cord laid lengthways in Sand the |a ures fastened w,th strips of plaster. The wound is Lught together anil three or four stitches, and with strips of plaster, upon which are £d„ a,Kl and the whole fastened with a T in the^orizTntaFposture!USt ** keP‘ f°r “,e *rSt ‘"'a1™ daJS Pretly much The after-treatment depends on the degree of the inflammatory and ner 2509™Tnnt fh ^ in’ aiKl iS COnduCted according to the uslal rules whioi/if f 1 un[requent Ine°nvemence after the operation is bleedino- hich, if not quickly attended to, may produce very considerable infiT anddistenusion ceJuL ti* J^Sr^S.1,,H must yemf0vl,n° dressing, some bleeding vessels be discovered they must be tied. If the bleeding be from the whole surface as if 7 ISIS’“ «as- k i 5 Si* sm !t 4-jr **“»«•>- *£h£Z “• thar'"'’ il <• ^visable z%, i^d5£TfF-l- - “ L Fo • p COrd’ whlch 18 easily distinguished, divided. ' hi^eSSSSr* DisTrt- Testic- «*"»*• post * -iSSr*™* - “■»■» a* s-.-: Kliniach. Annalen, vol. ii. part iii. °814 DISEASED UNDESCENDED TESTICLE. [The operation here recommended should not be performed as it is useless and cruel The testicle, though seated in the groin, performs its functions equally well, and i > there be any fear of its situation rendering it liable to injury, it may be protected with a cup truss. It is of great importance that persons who are subject of this unusual position of the; testicle, should be acquainted with the fact of it being matter of not the slightest con- | sequence to their condition, as very serious mental alienation has occurred from their i notion of being unlike other people, and incapable of performing an important function..■ In some instances, indeed, the horror of their presumed condition has led to self-de- struction. Neither must it be omitted to mention that, although the testicle has been: seated for many years in the groin, yet that occasionally, without any apparent cause,-! it will descend and take its natural place in the scrotum.—J. f. s. There is not any reason why the testicle remaining in the groin should not be: attacked with disease, as it is after its descent into the scrotum; but such cases, as far as I am aware, are exceedingly uncommon; the following three examples are therefore very interesting; the first two are histories attached to casts in the Museum of Stcs Bartholomew’s Hospital, for which I have to thank my friend Paget ; and the last is now (November) in the Middlesex Hospital, under the care of my friend Arn'ott,' who has kindly furnished me with his notes. Case 1. The man was a labourer, aged forty-four years. His mother said, that at the time of his birth a small tumour was observed in his groin, which has remained there: : ever since. Seven years before his death it began to increase considerably in size, and six weeks previous to Mr. Sargant seeing him, in November 1830, it had attained such bulk as to incapacitate him from following his usual employment. At that time it seemed attached to the anterior superior spine of the ilium and to the upper part of the pubes, and hung down over the thigh ; and was considerably inflamed. Treat-: ment was adopted calculated to remove this condition : and soon after he came to St. Bartholomew’s Hospital; but in January 1831 he returned to Mr. Sargant’s care. The tumour had then greately increased in size,and was slightly inflamed, accompanied- with considerable fever and general disorder. Mild antiphlogistic remedies were adopted, and after the application of a blister, were maintained for a week; the tumour pointed at its most depending part, and having been punctured, a pint and a half - of green, offensively-smelling matter was discharged. He was allowed nutritious diet, with wine, &c„ and was soon able to leave his bed and walk in the open air, about eight ounces of matter, however, being discharged daily. In the following «IS strength having regularly increased, he was able to walk four or five miles in the day, T and the tumour continuing to discharge, was much decreased iu size. On the 1UAO the same month, haemorrhage, to the amount of about a quart, took place, it was sup- posed from a branch of the epigastric artery. After this he seemed, for a time, to have recovered his previous improved condition; but in the beginning or June attacked with fever, occasional shiverings, great and most distressing pain in the l°i and the tumour again rapidly and considerably enlarged. The discharge a time was lessened; but on the 20th of the same month, a fresh opening was taneously made near the former one, and from this a copious discharge cnsuei . a ‘ panied about every three days with a discharge of about eight ounces of > °)M • , bowels now became obstinately costive, and he had great irritabilitj of s,°niac i. constant retching and vomiting. He continued iu this state, but gradua > ’ . worse, and on the 27th of July died. On examination, the stomach, liter,, an -P ■ were found healthy. The mesenteric glands were considerably enlarged and mmin. > and on being cut into, discharged the brain-like substance observable m mei ^ sarcoma. The testicle could not be found; nor could the spermatic cord beyond the tumour, though it was carefully sought for. What remained of t was a mass of soft encephaloid substance. , on Case 2. Was under the care of Lawrence of Brighton, and the cast was "Li jnt0 account of its similarity to the former. In this also the testicle had not desce the scrotum, and it was presumed that it was an encephaloid tumour ot that org had produced the enlargement. „„ -tfti Case 3. Richard Lorn,, aged 43 years, was admitted into Middlesex 1‘°;P ’ t»nd Nov. 3, 1846. On account of a tumour in the right groin ; it is; Urge, r» ment, of an oval shape, with its long diameter nearly in the direction of Pom1 * ^ QuU,r which, however, it covers somewhat obliquely ; the greater part ot “K 11 f the lower end of the mass of the tumour being above the ligament, the greater {? inclies in the and inner end being below its level. Over the surface it,measureda half long direction, and six and a half in the short. It extended from d i /UD IcjC m in to mi ?£ & V- w it » 0 : Ml *8 I ■fHMMHi815 " ~ - > - CHIMNEY-SWEEPER’S CANCER. inches of the anterior and superior spinous process of the ilium, to a little beyond the E,Wh.fe Zas in c°ntact witb tbe root of the penis. Its surface was uniform and smooth; it felt firm and resisting, and gave the idea of solidity, but at one part com- numicatmgan mdist.net sensation of some fluid being present ; it is nowhere dia- phanous. No impulse is communicated on coughing, although from the motion on its dullI1S this action, it is evidently covered by at least the superficial fascia of the abdomen. It can be grasped, and is to a certain extent movable, but it cannot be wInth,?1SeTt \-ItS/tr lm,enI,S behind’ The Saturn and testicle on this side are a. 1 ?K The Patlenb a farm-labourer, of hale appearance, and father of seven children be indulged.” 4 lnstance > and as he has but just entered the house, he will dnSSj atEd ?VT f0Und to be «e of me- eased mass being covered Sith\L tendon of^r g°4 out1of *e external ring, the dis- up over the whole the eXtCTnal °bll<lue> wbicb I bad to slit G.-OF CANCER OF THE SCROTUM. ott, Percival, Chirurgical Works, vol. ii. p. 225. Edit. 1783. CMmney-sSw^peFs^Cancer°nSMan^1estei°™808tO So?1' "* 0bservations on p Earle, Henry, On Chimney-sweeper’s Cancer; in Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. xii. Travers, Benjamin, On same ; in same, p. 344. aiu.e, Henry ; in London Medical and Surgical Journal, vol. i. p. 6. 1832 Testis,‘p.R,226l.r STLEY’ Bart” 0bservatioDS the Structure and Diseases of the leribedUnfler the name °f Chimney-sweeper’s Cancer, Pott has de ,l,i a Pecullar cancerous degeneration of the scrotum to wlnVI fk ^imney-sweepers in England are subject fl) A wartvex^ the stacked with this complaint * sn'H t *St I"variably young persons are arSfeSf* a uxz * it [(0 “ Otko V„ P from tensive ulceration (2). bers besides 1 eadworkers *ihe1Po'!ctou 'col° Can^ers, of tbe same parts, and so have - erthdess adisease to which they are peculiarly lfobl^T®114 Pa?alysis> but it is tbo scrotum and testicles^’ (p 2^ 1 S° According to D, Paris («) «,t deserves SticfiL the smelters are occasionallyTREATMENT OF CHIMNEY-SWEEPER’S CANCER. 816 affected with a cancerous disease in the scrotum, similar to that which infests chimney- sweepers, and it is singular that Stahl in describing the putrescent tendency in the bodies of those who die from this poison, mentions in particular the gangrenous appear- ance of these parts.” (p. 97.) Although the disease almost invariably is produced in the scrotum, yet in rare cases it is seen on other parts. Earle mentions “ a remarkable instance of its occurrence at the wrist of a gardener, who was every spring employed to distribute soot for the destruction of slugs, which is related by his father in the last edition of Pott’s Works” UeSirUCllOH oi SlUgS, WHICH Id icidtcu vj mo latuu m ^a a vaa « '' (p. 297.) Astley Cooper saw chimney-sweeper’s cancer twice, and Keate once upon the cheek. j- F' e cneeK. (2) Earle states that when from infection by this disease, the testicle “ becomes*! greatly indurated, ulceration, and sometimes sloughing, then take place, leaving a deep excavated ulcer, that penetrates into the body of the testis, which does not appear dis- posed to the formation of fungous growth similar to what occurs when the scrotum is the seat of the disease. The same observation applies when the complaint has extended itself to the inguinal glands ; its progress in glandular structures appears to be more- rapidly destructive, without the slightest effort at reparation. The disease in every instance that I have seen, except one, extended itself to the parts immediately con- tiguous. The inguinal glands are often enlarged, but they will generally subside on the removal of the diseased scrotum, clearly proving that the disease is not commonly j communicated in the course of the absorbents. This is a very important feature in: : the complaint, and one which most materially influences the prognosis and treatment I know but one exception to this rule, where a bubo formed, which suppurated, and the sore assumed the same character as the primary affection in the scrotum." (p. 298.) This statement of the subsidence of a swelled inguinal gland, is very remarkable, and if generally supported, would form a very important and hopeful feature in the disease;* but I am afraid experience does not verify it.—J. f. s. Travers (6) says:—“ The disease resembles lupus of the cheek and eyelids in destroy- ing the skin and cellular texture, leaving the testicles and ligamentous covering of the crura penis, as that does the sclerotic, bare and wasted, but otherwise uninjured, this : sore has no tendency to slough or penetrate deeply by ulceration. The lymphatic glands.fi are rarely, and seldom, specifically affected. tp. 345.)] '■ 2505. The cause of the disease must be considered to be the ingriming of soot into the wrinkles of the scrotum (1). It rarely occurs before thirteen years of age (2), and appears at first to be simply a local disease, although there may be a general disposition thereto (c.) J. The only remedy to prevent the progress of the disease is cutting out*, the ulcerated part of the scrotum, or its destruction with arsenical oint- ment. If the operation be put off till the testicle be affected, extirpation* has in general an uncertain result; and in many cases although the woun have completely healed, the disease may re-appear some months after 1.0). When it has once spread so far that the removal of the testicle is no long® possible, palliative treatment according to the general rules, alone remai 1 r(l) It may be this disease depends ou some chemical peculiarity of c9®1 foreign writers take no notice of its occurrence in countries where woo 1 (2) Pott says he never saw chimney-sweeper’s cancer under the age !jl'j>for'rn And Earle states “ It very rarely attacks persons under the age of ^ty. a very small proportion of the number engaged in the business. The gre®‘^> ^tliree of cases which I have seen, have occurred between thirty and forty; 1 *\ave f^litary instances between twenty and thirty, and only one at the age of puberty. ,mt [ instance is recorded by my father, where it occurred in an infant under eig have never met with any similar case.’ (p. 299.) ,1(TUe Greks. (3) I have lately had under my care a man, for whom my colleague . ^ removed a chimney-sweeper’s cancer nineteen years since; the disease; hav, The return of the disease seems evidently to depend ou exposure to tt ioD) ,t originally produced it, as so far as I am aware, if persons change their occupy does not recur, if removed before the glands have become tainted.—J. F. -J ^ («) Pharmacologta, vol. ii. London, 1825. 8vo. EsnCs', Medl-CMr* Tr»n».i P- 2"* Sixth Edition.[ 817 ] I H.—OF CANCER OF THE WOMB. Roederkr, S. G., De Scirrho Uteri. Gottingae, 1754. Haller, Comment, de Uteri Sc.irrho. Gottingse 1756 der’ “”r“ weib,iche" Geb"“- f' yenl,f,rra?bfe; U,erUS- 1817 : will, plates. p!™V -J'’ ? ^ d6n Krebs der Gebiirmutter. Mannheim, 1817. Paris, 1824. 6 C6r d<3 la Matrice et sur les Maladies de Voies urinaires. Berlin,S18E2B4°LI>’ E" Ueber ^ Gebarmutterkrebs, dessen Entstehung und Verhiitung. Dt“' taflt? Ef'r"0" “ 0™ Scirthus, deutschen Medicin und Chirurgie, vol. i. p. 74 Ut s> ln IIarless s Jahrbucher der Schmitt’s obstetr. Schriften, p. 100. Wien, 1820. 0f tbe Uterus: ^ London Medical Gazette, 1835. l2moL’ LEET"001>>MD‘> °ntlme of the Principal Diseases ofWomen. Dublin, London^^844?^*8voL' MD” A Practlcal Treatise on the Diseases peculiar to Women. f by^PrTgnanc^^'wk^Rem^ks^o^the^Tth11^^011 °^tbe.Neck of the Womb followed ,1 |itb "«*> : «--« a,nd *&***£?‘neck »f rxr void ' ^m^e,m^nioos^ed0|ip/S °J "*&«?* “.■.J first d^ovc-stMe • I” and around the muciparous nlanduhr nr vo • aectlons of the uterus, takes Mot/d, which exist in such n n st t.! Vesi,cles’ Retimes called the ova gecorne indurated by the deposition ofsci^housZtT ma'?" °f the os nteri > these "'ng of their coats, in consequence of which they fedof*11?'d,them» and by the thick- ilmn'6!. U,i<ler the mucous membrane; afterwLds ww't^ T81 ‘ke s'‘ains ofshot • ume by further increase of the morbid action tL L- t lG^ ’,ave acquired greater -3ars. The6 s v inn toms1 renifln lri this state many months, and even jiShs. the discharge becomes ^richo^6’ spr<:ad.over the Pubes and eces of slough arul clots of blood f ’ 18t,nIk,n»’ and mixed with vol. n. 00d 5 freq,iently there are very violent 3 <jr818 DIAGNOSIS bleedings. The general health is much affected ; all the symptoms o cancerous consumption, with the characteristic leaden countenance, mak their appearance, and death ensues, either quickly, or alter a sever, bleeding, or as is usual, under the horrible tortures of hectic consump' On examination of this advanced state of the disease, the vaginal por- tion is found ulcerated, more or less destroyed, beset with warty growth, and hard knots, which ascend into the cavity of the neck of the womb Sometimes the womb itself, sometimes the upper part of the vagina u hard and degenerated ; the ulceration may even extend to the rectum ant bladder, in consequence of which the sufferings become more severe. rm “The popular opinion, that cancer of the womb is invariably accompaniedb; acute suffering0^,’’ observes Ashwell, “certainly incorrect But it is tru th in some instances scarcely any infliction can equal, and certainly none can exceed, it aeonSing burning* and lancinating pain. - * * By most the pam is describedtob lancinating as though sharp knives were constantly being plunged into the neck of t womb- and so constant is this characteristic, that some authors tound on it the diaguw and cancer. There are, however, not a few cases m whichth hot burning character constitutes its great aggravation. In the milder form , A ' “ vprv stnw the pain is wearing and constant, but endurable, (p. 4140 S Cavoe%), “ are sometimes so acute, that petaon have been Kn to die of convulsions, or delirium, occasioned by cerebral fever. KS, accompanied with slight pain and tenderness on pressure oner the stoma but in the malignant ulceration, commencing in th. inchuated'Teposit of the urethra, extended ijntofte Si1" BSS. i Se expectations were a. Mr height, Pgj Sdd“'! Zt inexplicably recurred, and the patient sank ,n less than a week. (p. )j 2508. Cancer of the womb, like cancer in genera ,- «toM»| n» in its nroaress ; in persons with dense fibre, it is ratner_ me F “ ZceJln of scirrhous parts, but in pasty persons it is most.; accompanied with fungous growths and very copious bkedmgs. The^ diaanosis is in general easy, and ti.e more so as the practitioner usually only first consulted when the disease lias made some ProgrH| Tlmse diseased conditions, which at first have some resmblance^t cancer of the womb, but are easily distinguishable, are“fl q and benignant hardening, steatomatous (fibrous) degeneration, the womb, polyp, and medullary fungus. . n r,ARKE(cl [The “ Cauliflower Excrescence from the Os Uteri,” as it is ca e 7 ' nl0rbit is a form of disease by some regarded as truly cancerous and by others.^ gjjip tissue, not necessarily of a malignant or carcinomatous nature. ^ r^erence tc RON observes:—“A inimber of circumstances appear to me to s > , tter authors 1 . i . tbe first stage of cauliflower excrescence, the opinion o ■ twentietl at least, tne nrs B occurrence of the disease in some cases as early astne . probably coi re . shrinking, and almost total disappearance upon* jP?,, 7™ of fliVtamreTr after death; the frequent slowness of ts general pro^d part; r°ath°e apparent absence of diseased deposits in the iieigdibounng . of the tumour in one (a) Quoted by Ash^u am, c),irurgic#1 Knowledge. [(•) Trau^ctions'^' a sC?ctyVfor Uie improve-OF CANCER OF THE WOMB. 819 simple means, form so many circumstances strongly pointing to the opinion that in tbo earher part of its progress, the tumour cannot 1be regarded as of ^ c^cinomatSs character. Has it any analogy in its pathological nature and origin-as it certain v has in its physical characters—with the soft warts and condylomata that sometimes form on the mucous membrane of the vulva and entrance of the vagina 1 These warts and con- dylomata have the same tendency to degeneration after their imperfect removal and nt^ mnrh^ a <rxceptl?n t0 ^he general pathological law of the local reproduction of a morbid growth being a sign of its malignancy. But whatever view we may take of the primary nature of the cauliflower excrescence of the cervix uteri w/h-ive preh'oma^ous^i^n'e'dun^iry'T^/iy1!^ from ^he^am^of1^ mLTt, / carcinomatous deposit and malignant action, during its progress "l n Z cinomata of the cervix uteri we thus treLrall,/, f .rea. (p. 176.) In car- disease, that the organ hfs b^ome mo^e Tw S’- ^ t VTy ^ staSe of the cauliflower excrescence of the era* „„i 1 (p no™ * S res“d ,0 befit09,<fa”0er °f the ',0mb raaj be developed at every period after p„- Ih™*™ Mvfag at the noticed. ’ hereditary disposition is not unfrequently I»ttcT«e2i<,?“1‘STof ^rgw»h some rrs ***• «*■ a™. P w®ntieth year. Boivin and Duces iMV nr’i, ,the Pa!lent had not reached her • ‘Oder twenty years of age • eiehtv^W bt hund/ud aud nlne examples, found twelve * be tween thi rly and^fortv'° one^hmu'iiFl ?,T and *irty; one hundred and between forty-five’and fifty. Mr CARMiciMi^sa^01"1^ ^ tifty-five; and S; 7oweT,“d "t**- « 'art. ’ oy U1C aestruction or removal of the diseased » »ch cases^may ^fevwiSle^ulfbe external means, only in I H* ^ not actually cancerous^^bu is ininT'^ -fr°m them ‘he dis- •1 ,,lno) or that state of ulceration whir P 7,beniSnant celling and hard- . >ent, may run into actual cancer |’ ander neg]ect °r improper treat- 1 ave been observed by means of monor • 1 ie/SI!ccessfl|l issues which PPhcation of leeches to the'Wm^m anil tof ' °glSUC treatment» heated ; "<* >n full-blooded persons eve^ bhin it • Upper Part of the thighs, ,e °f calomel, hemlock diaitalis hdl / "‘S’’ and at the same time the ke> soothing baths and’ injections into fh^’ a(JUa laur°-c^asi and the ana injections into the vagma, purgatives, and when («)NeueZeitschrifttr,r GeburUkunae.vol.lv 3 G 2820 MODE OF USING THE SPECULUM VAGINAE, the cause has been syphilitic, properly managed mercurial treatment. Ir.l true scirrhus or cancer, the remedies directed {par. 2415) for cancer n 1 general may indeed lessen the sufferings, but never effect a cure. I his.I as in cancer in general, so in cancer of the womb, is only possible by the removal, or by the destruction of the scirrhous or cancerous mass. 2512. It is self-evident that the circumstances already mentioned (par 2410) as regarding operations on cancer in general, which either rendeij them difficult, impossible, or contraindicate them, are still more weighty in reference to their application to cancer of the womb, as decision upon* , the extent of the degeneracy, and the participation of the patient s health m is subject to still greater difficulty than under other circumstances. _ 2513. Examination with the greatest attention can alone ascertain tht:H condition of the womb, as well also as an inspection of the parts by mean, of the speculum vagina; which must be passed into the vagina as high ajj possible, so that the neck of the womb may be received into its uppe.-* opening, which can alone be distinctly distinguished when the speculumjj is illuminated with a candle. The specula uteri et vagina are rather conical cylinders of tin polished rior (Recamier, Dupuytren, Dubois and others); or two-armed (Lisfranc. Jobert Duges RmoRD • or three-armed (Busch, Ehrmann, Weiss) ; or many-armed (Gm Pox Beaumont Colombat.) The two-armed are usually most convenient. The following circumstances are to be attended to in the mtroductioui of‘thes«J«i uteri The patient is to be laid opposite the light upon the edge of a bc(J.or table’ J , her buttocks^ little raised, and her feet supported by < The practitioner standing between the thighs, separates with the fang 1 the S and holding in his right hand the speculum, warmed and smeared upon t < externaUsurfe.ce°witl? grease, passes the part next the commissure labiorum post** some lines deep into the vagina, presses it upon the commissure, and at^the mi® J raises the handle,so .h.t the par. resting by the finger ™ 1J resorted to if there is any affection of the vagina or cervix. M e have found_ it o confirming, and not unfrequently, also changing and rectifying haT mere tactile examination had led us to adopt, In this country great ^ been placed against the more general introduction 0f the patient, whic sequence of the disagreeable and revolting exposure * own p^ is usually considered necessary in its employment. We have latterly illtroduc tice endeavoured to avoid this very natural objection, 1 y ac 1 g . tll'e positio and use the instrument when the patient was placed on her left side, ^ c usually ussumed in making a tactile examination, and with the nates_ne tt » b the bed. We strongly recommend our professional brethren to fo V jn t and with attention to the management of the bed clothes, we have foundja^m ^ strument can be perfectly employed with little, or indeed without a^expos^ ^ body of the patient. The speculum is introduced easily without theassis t0 ex i the mouth of it only requires to be afterwards uncovered, in order to differen U amine the cervix uteri and top of the vagina. \\ e have made trial . n)a j forms of specula, and find, for almost all purposes that of Ricord by far tne ■ "a«Tn exposing the cervix uteri for the purpose of drawing empW^1 I tions, in cases of chronic congestion and ^ ( tlOUS. in V/* v... . . . tubular speculum with advantage, but even in this case („•) Lisfbano, Du Toucher; in Ills Clinique Cliirurgicalej in Gwette Mrdicalc, vol. i. P ((,) Above cited. 591- 1S3HIN CANCER OF THE WOMB; EXTIRPATION. 821 equally useful, and in some instances preferable. In a case of ulcer of the os uteri which we are at present attending with Dr. John Gairdner, and where the passages are much relaxed, and the uterus very low in the vagina, we have, on Dr. Gairdner’s susses- tmn, employed with much advantage a short tubular speculum of only an inch and a hal in length, and with a deficiency or opening along the course of one side of it, of sufficient size to enable us to pass our finger, for the purpose of placing the diseased part in the proper centre of the instrument. We have thus been enabled to touch easily the different applications ; while with the usual instruments it was found a very d'ffiCU t taS C t0 fix 111 11,1 s ^stance the very mobile cervix uteri.” (pp. 105, 25\4oonMe'S °-f s,!c‘cessful extirpation of prolapsed and everted womb (par. 1-89) first inclined B. Osiander to the performance of this operation for cancer of the womb, or rather of its lower part thus degenerated. UsrANDER has described two modes of performing this operation. , *lrsL~1r he fun9us is to be first removed, then the womb fixed in the bottom of the vagina by means of a thread drawn through its neck or by means of forceps, and afterwards the degenerated neck cut offbv an arch- ing cut with a curved, narrow, round-ended bistoury. The bleeding must ■ be stanched by plugging, or by styptic powder. Second.—If the greater part of the neck of the womb be destroyed by cancer, if it have spread far, and its cavity be filled with knobby, carcino- matous fungus and the mouth of the womb cannot be seized and drawn womMhiTrf^ies, the patient must be pkced in the horizontal posture, the a°bv f f °'Vn y preuSTer it * fundus, which must be fixed in the cauty of the sacrum with the forefinger of the left hand, the middle and oerf" n8?irS 1Iltrodl!ced mt0 the cavity of the womb, and whilst they ^trumem abT) T & P^ °f cu.rved-bladed «*«ors, or an extirpating \i Aoiecas Tbi 6 f™#*™ lrref£lar sc.n;rh°us parts are removed in small f cavity is then filled with sponge moistened in wine and l yp, Ic p<?wder’ and apter the bleeding is stanched a sponge dipped in lead K Zt V,"egar iV° be "P- ™>e„ -ppurat!„u °Urag by ? mixture ofextl'act of green walnut-shells, honey |he wmmdreC1 A^b UPP U?°n a Sp°n°e imraediately to the surface of lma]. r ' ,^S h6i suPPuratlon increases the mixture is to be used in Irtrp :r/P^tity and without the precipitate. At the same time internal f lengthening medicine must be given («). ’ i av;°n1'>\ Dupuytren’s method is more simple and efficient. The patient E '2 bfn placed in the Same Potion as for lithotomy, he introduces Le IT^ T\Vagina\ and gIVes h t0 an assistant to hold. He then grasps ,, ndem °£ b,e wo.m? WI}h a pair of forceps, draws it slowly towardfhim I ttr with a do B ‘ ^ °f .‘t? degenerated Pa* of the necl/of Tim womb’ 1 p scissnr double-edged bistoury curved towards its side, or with a pair | Ml, sides in^ch vvav H at'riner’ ^ fed above> he]ow> a”d on I %k of the womb The hwT co”cav;ty 18 always directed towards the ih derable thoue-h it l c< ln& 1,1 this operation is generally incon- | -oceed from o'5 , * may ?e great and even severe> in which case, if it I, small act i 0,ie single spot of the wound, that may be touched with TVi bUT ^ !,ie bleeding be from the whffie surfoce, 1 Us occur ' 1 y P ng-g'ng the vagina. If inflammatory symp- ^Km«K,ng antiphlogistic treatment must be employed. a,le, and afterwar I ' ’ "P’i °Ui °-r S1X inJections °f warm water must be ‘ terwards a weak solution of chloride of lime thrown up. If I ^ nzcigcr. 1803. No. oOO; p 3936.—GSltinger zelohrlcr Anzeii[er. 1808; p. 1300.TREATMENT OF CANCER OF THE WOMB 822 there be a luxuriant growth of granulations they must, be touched with * nitrate of silver. In two or three weeks at most the wound has scarred (a), j ] Can ell a (b) has given a peculiar speculum vayincc, together with forceps and a i -i curved knife, with which, when the neck of the womb is drawn into the cavity of the speculum, the degenerated part may be cut off. J. Hatin (c) has also proposed a speculum vagina, which may be expanded at plea-jj sure, and by it an instrument can be introduced into the cavity of the womb, for the*j purpose of fixing it, and then with a jointed uterotome the projecting part of the neck i of the womb can be cut off. von Walther, in a case, the account of which is still to be expected, first separated! the pubic arch, and then cut off the neck of the womb. When the neck of the womb, on account of its softening or destruction, will not J permit the application pf the forceps, the vagina and peritonaeum must, according to j Recamler, be cut into before and behind, and the womb then seized with the forceps,'* drawn down, and the degenerated part cut off. Lisfranc id) employs a speculum vaginae, consisting of two half cylinders of tin connected by a hinge, and which may be separated from each other. After its intro- duction, the enlarged neck of the womb can be seen, and the necessary instruments introduced. With Musedx’s hook-forceps, made longer and stronger than usual* he seizes the neck of the womb, and with an artificial lever, acting for from five' to fifteen minutes, produces a prolapse, and cuts off the degenerated part with a bistoury at several small strokes. Colombat (e) has, for the purpose of preventing the pain in drawing down the womb, invented a hysterotome, with which, after the introduction of the speculum vagina, the neck of the womb can be seized and cut off. Bellini (f) has invented a spoon, with a cutting edge in front and a long curved handle; and Cenolli (y) and Aronsohn (/i) other instruments for extirpating the neck of the womb. 2516. When the degenerated neck of the womb is so soft that it cannot in any way be fixed without tearing, or when the disease recurs after it has been removed, its destruction by caustic is indicated. For this pur- pose Recamier uses nitrate of silver, and Dupuytken nitrate of mercury dissolved in nitric acid, and caustic potash, which is preferable. Mayor’s (i) practice of tying the neck of the womb with the assistance of forceps! must also be mentioned. 2517. The caustic potash is to be applied in the following manner:-— The patient having been placed in the same posture as for excision, and the speculum vaginat introduced, the cancerous surface is to be cleansed, with a wad of lint, pressed against it with the forceps for a sufficient time. If the surface of the ulcer be irregular and beset with fungous-i growths, they must be removed with scissors curved towards their sur®^'1 or with a proper extirpation-knife. A wad of lint must then be placed below the surface of the ulcer, to suck up all the fluid part of the caustic which escapes during the process ; the whole surface of the ulcer is now y* carefully dried with lint, and a conical piece of caustic potash, at least an ■ • • * ** * 1 1 DC inch broad at its base, blunt at its tip, and fixed on a holder, must applied for at least a minute, unless the patient should suffer very grea ■ pain, which is rare. After this the vagina must be injected several times ■ with water, the speculum and wad of lint removed, and the patient pi (n) Sabatier, Meilecine Operatoire, vol. iii. . !I7. ]821. New Edition. * (b) Cenni dell’ Estirpazione della llocca c del Colio dell’ Uicro et Descrizionc del Metrotomo, etc. Milano, 1821. (c) Memoire sur un nouveau precede pour 1 /Im- putation du Col de la Matrice dans les Affections Cancereuses. Paris, 1827. . un nouveau precede ; in Revue Medicale. 1 , vol. ii. p. 191.—Lisfranc, Memo.res sur lA^ • u tat ion du Col de I'l'terus, par 1828; vol. iii. P P-, :lvji. Annali Cnivenali, vol. (/) Omodei P (jt^Archivo deile Seienzc Med.-Fioehe Ta*»n 1837 : pl. i. 4*. (A) fiamburger Zeilschrlft, vol. i. P*r,^j. ,vi. (t) Archives Generales de Medccine, Matrice . 91. 1828.823 BY CAUSTIC POTASH; ITS EXTIRPATION. t into a lukewarm bath. In four or five days, when the irritation has ■ passed off, and the slough has separated, the operation is to be repeated in the same way, if the state of the parts seem to require it. Should symp- ; toms of inflammation of the womb and of the peritonceum occur after the operation, strict antiphlogistic treatment will be requisite. This mode of practice, although it will not ever effect a cure, in most cases relieves the patient considerably (a). 2518. It is evident that this mode of treatment is alone indicated, and a cure thereby effected, when the disease is in its beginning, when there is not any accompanying general exciting cause, nor any ensuing affection of the whole consitution ; when the exhaustion is not very great, when there i is not any affection of the neighbouring parts, and when the seat of the dis- ease is such that the whole degenerated part can he removed. The result 1 of the operation is, however, here just as doubtful, and even still more so i than in the extirpation of any other cancerous part ; because, cancer of ; the womb is liable to escape the most careful examination of the extent of the disease. On the other hand, however, it must be remembered, that 'in cancer which arises in the neck of the womb, the boundary between the healthy and degenerated part is in general sharply defined, whereby the result of the operation can be the earlier determined, as cancer of the >! neck of the womb, as it is commonly developed, is a consequence of con- 9 turned local ailment (h). Experience, however, is opposed to those who B have denied the successful result of such partial extirpation (c). But a preview of these cases proves that, on the other hand, the value of the |nperation has been overrated, as it brings about temporary, but very rarely Blasting benefit, whilst fatal results have frequently ensued ; and in the Bauccessful cases the correctness of the diagnosis may perhaps be doubted. 2519 Extirpation of the whole womb, if there be no accompanying prolapse, has by some been considered impossible; by others absolutely Ratal; by some holding out no hope of a favourable issue ; because in the s ase indicating it, the disease has so far advanced that no assistance can |*-:>e expected from its extirpation (d). r Struve (c) proposed to effect a prolapse of the womh hv drnwino- it a™™ (e) Hufei.and's Journal, vol. xvi. part iii. p. 123. 1803. K (f) Siebold’s Journal fiir die Geburtshiilfe, vol. i. part ii. (g) Above cited. (A) Neue Bibliothek fiir die Chirurgie und phthalmologie, vol. i. p. 531.824 TOTAL EXTIRPATION the bleeding was stanched, he filled with lint. The ovaries and round ligaments should be removed together with the womb. Ladd Wolf (a) extirpated a scirrhous prolapsed womb with a fatal result. Recamier (b) successfully removed one by tying it. He also (c), in a case of cancer with prolapse of the womb, removed it, after ascertaining that no bowel was contained in the sac of perituiucum, by means of a needle carrying a double thread, and tied on each side. 2520. The assertion of the impossibility of extirpating the whole womb, has been disproved by a case in which Sauter (c/) performed this operation successfully. He considers this operation, having never seen any cure by partial extirpation, as suitable and practicable, when there is in the vagina, around the neck of the womb, still sufficient space to allow the knife being carried around all the diseased part, and when no general symptoms exist which contraindicate the extirpation. [That a patient can recover after extirpation of the womb, even under most unfavour- able circumstances, is proved by the case related by Rossi (e), in which, after the delivery of both child and placenta, the midwife, on passing her hand into the vagina, felt a swelling, which she mistook for another child. This she pulled with such force, that the tumour, which was the womb, was dragged from its attachments, and then cut it off the vagina with a knife, and removed it entire. Notwithstanding this horrible treatment the woman recovered.] 2521. Sauter lays down the following rules for this operation :—After emptying the bladder and the rectum, the patient is laid across a bed and properly fixed. An assistant passes his hand over the pubes, in such way, that with the flat of it he can press down the womb into the pelvis, whilst with the back, the bowels are kept up and away from the pelvis. The operator introduces the fore and middle fingers of his left hand into the vagina, till they reach the hollow it forms around the neck of the womb; then carries a curved bistoury, with a short blade and long handle, between the fingers, up to this part, cuts through the vagina upon the womb, about two or three lines deep, and carries this cut around the whole neck. A pair of scissors, curved towards their edge, with long handles, are now passed between the two fingers, and a snip made between the bladder and rectum upwards through the peritonaeum, keeping close to the neck of the womb, whilst with the fingers like a hook, the tough, cellular connexions are grasped, directed into the scissors, and with these carefully cut through. When the division is so far made that the two fingers can be passed through the opening into the cavity of the belly, the separation may be made in a like manner between the rectum and womb, with scissors curved towards their blades, and kept close upon the womb. If the fingers can be passed on the hinder surface of the womb through the peritonceum into the cavity of the belly, this hinder connexion may be completely divided through the whole depth of its deeper sinking, »P its connexions on the sides, after the finger like a hook has been passed over the peritonceum, and that has been drawn down, with a concave km e or a pair of scissors curved on their side. The height to be separate' should be about an inch. The further the hind connexion be separaL from below upwards on the sides, the easier and safer can the operation a completed, after separating the connexions on the sides. tiisen Gebarmiitter, ohnc selb«l entst.ndin'’'1 kunsllich bewirkten Vorfall vorgenoni v je gliicklich vollffihrt; mit niiherer diese Operation gemacht wcrdcn kann; in Steindr. Constant, 1822. (n) Archives generates de Mcdecine, vol. x. p. 105. 1820. (6) Revue Medicate. 1825; vol. iv. p. 393. December. (r) Recherches sur le Traitement du Cancer, etc. (d) Die ganzliclie Exstirpation der carcinoma- (r) II Raccoglitorc.OF CANCEROUS WOMB. 825 . 2522‘ T,1VS far> by fbe introduction of the two fingers of the left hand into the vagina can everything be effected as to the management of the knife and scissors, but now the whole hand, or at least four fingers, must be passed between the urinary bladder and the womb up into the opening in. j e perttofueum, so that its inner surface may be turned back Then with the fore and middle fingers, hooked, the highest connexion on one side bemg drawn down from above, and somewhat forwards, a concave knife is introduced, carried above the side connexions by means of the fingers, and then keeping close to the womb by continued supporting and arrying the knife with and between the fingers, the side cut downwards owaids the vagina, is made, and afterwards in like manner on the other side, before, the division of the former is completed. The remaining w°TeX10nS fe n0VV Set free’ for which the two fingers are alonf ec, ^eeping close on the womb and endeavouring not to cut from the fS TmrS th! iHt0 the ^-mde cut in the vagina. passed imnVhP T,ch Jleedln-’ a wad of dlT bnt should be first L i t , “ IT pi6CeS °f German tinder P]aced round m u or 1 t thra9tna ?k,gged With either moie Ger- liiUhnc h 1 , -If th,e bleedinS require no attention, after a wad of t has been passed into the vagina, dry lint, or mixed with gum arahie Then to Te1 p0ut,ItoedbedUt *5 f t0 be pIu^etL T,^e Patieilt is removes his hand 5 . ? honz0ntal Pasture, and then the assistant above the^t” ’ Prevented the descent of the bowels, from The after-treatment must be conducted according to the general rules fteI^Vhatt;ieh^0ntal P-ure, wlh restXStS ued for at least fourteen days, and if purifying injections into ti,*.,. SgTSi be!fvSh Thl ** “ad<i Caref"Ily’ s.°°tllat P“® tafthe SK aarp by means of a flexible silver needle through thenS*k°f ^thread,ls Passed Purpose of preventing the recession of i f t °f the worab, for the extirpated the womb once through tin U t organ- Langenbecic (b) lias the white line, as p'mT by f ^ the womb with a sarcoma attached tn u ’ Valletta (c) extirpated sarcoma inwards, cut into the imm in tbls ease he drew the l°ng curved scissors S IT 6 T of the vagina, with a pair of Partly with a sickle-shaped I n fi ^TT16 removal? partly with them and manner. ped kmfe- Holscher (rf) proceeded in a like jn tw^fingem to'e^irgc^thlf^ CU* int° ‘5®,hind Part of tIie vagina, passed "‘crease the cut on boil ■ openin§'’ and then again used the bistoury to ie cut on both sides to the root of the round ligaments. ] ? ^ v°..kon,menen Ex„ir- tPr- Frankfortl'S? nichtProlabirten Gcb/irmut- ^iiiiiusen i avnnkfurt’ ,824* \°) I he same, p. 31. vohv.p" V°N <;',AKF': "nd V0N WAI.THUK, 01) The same. (c) Above cited, p. £93.EXTIRPATION 826 then introduced his whole hand into the vagina, and two fingers through the opening in the peritonceum; upon these, a hook, which he fixed in the hind surface of the womb, and therewith drew it down, at the same time using the finger of the hand he had introduced as a blunt hook to act upon the fundus of the womb. In this way he brought the whole of the diseased mass near to the external opening of the vagina. He now cut otfi the ligaments and the Fallopian tubes close to the womb, and the vagina from the bladder with care, so as to wound neither its neck nor the ureters. I lie operation occupied an hour. Five months after the patient was well, well nourished, and perfectly cured. Blundell also undertook the extirpa- - tion of the womb in other three cases, but all were fatal. Banner (a) seized the neck of the womb with a strong hook, drew it down, and fixed it with a loop carried through it. He then divided, with a semilunar cut, the hinder uppermost part of the vagina, where it is attached to the womb, and separated the womb from the bladder. The body of the womb was then turned forwards, and the ligaments were divided. The patient lost about six ounces of blood, and died on the fourth day. 2526. Delpech (b) considers a partial removal of the neck of the womb as never sufficient in any cancerous affection of the womb ; as every mode of examining the extent of the diseased change is fallacious. Nothing but the complete removal of the womb can be of use. The dangers of this operation are, wounding the peritonceum, tearing the parts, bleeding, and especially tying the broad ligaments of the womb. All these dangers are greater in extirpating the swelling through the vagina, but less in that through the white line, where isolated tying of the vessels is possible. In one case, Delpech made a semilunar cut through the skin above the pubic symphysis, and another in its axis in the peritonceum. With one finger in the vagina and another in the wound, he passed a pharyngotome through the vagina, and thrust it through the upper wound, whilst a hollow cylinder kept up the vagina. He then passed an elastic sound, an a metallic loop, drew the broad ligaments into the tube, divided them, and tied the vessels singly. A loop was next carried round the womb, which was then cut off. The result was fatal, in consequence, as Delpech supposes, of the tying. . For the removal of the womb, whilst still in its place, Delpech g the following directions: first, separation of the bladder from the ''°® through the vagina, after having passed a catheter into the bladder ; finger to be pressed up to the peritonceum, which must be penetrate! "1 _ the finger-nail; second, a cut above the pubic symphysis, in wliic i a fem circular flap is first formed through the skin, and the white line w 1,c' at its base being divided to the extent of five inches, the perito lifted up with the forceps, and cut into ; third, one finger being then pa^ from above downwards between the bladder and the womb, to the on other side of the neck of the latter, raises the corresponding part o bottom of the vagina, and with it the lateral ligament of the "O that side into the wound. A cut is now made upon the huger l { an elevator in its stead, from above downwards, and as each vess through it is tied. The other side is managed in the sa™e./^^ivided, womb is then pulled forwards, and its connexion with the rcctui and a sponge passed into the vagina Me (a) London Medical Gazette, vol. ii. p. 582. 1828. (/>) Mi-moire sur PAblalion dePU^i morial dcs Hupitanx du Midi. Oct., IWti V827 OF CANCEROUS WOMB. 2527. According to Dubled (a), cafter the neck of the womb has been seized and drawn down to the entrance of the vagina, the upper and fore part of the latter must be cut through, the opening enlarged with the finger, and the peritoneum stripped off; and the same must be done on the hind part. A ligature is then passed over the free edges of the lateral ligament, and that part of the latter surrounded which encloses the vessels of the womb, after which the lateral ligaments are cut throuo-h The womb is then easily thrust down, and its diseased part cut through by a transverse cut, without interfering with its fundus. The patient died twenty-two hours after this operation. 2528. Recamier (b) proposed a mode of proceeding, which like that of Sauter is specially distinguished by avoidance of bleeding, and in one case with success, the patient being cured on the forty-third day. Clysters were given on the evening and morning before the operation. The patient was placed as in the operation for the stone, and the neck of the womb having been seized with Museux’s forceps, was drawn down as low as possible. The vagina was then cut through with a convex button-ended bistoury introduced on the left forefinger, on the fore and under part of the swelling. The cellular tissue between the bladder and womb was separated with the left forefinger up to the folds of the peritoneum, and the convex bistoury passed along the finger, following the upper surface of the womb, opened the peritoneum, into the cavity of which the finger was intro- duced upon the body of the womb. With a straight button-ended hernial knife, introduced in the same way, this opening was enlarged right and left till two fingers could be readily placed upon the body of the womb so as to tZ m •CiWy d°Wn- With the sa™ knife the two upper tS of he left broad ligament were cut into close to the left side of the womb and immediately after the right broad ligament in the same way, the left fore- finger carrying in the bistoury. The left forefinger was now passed behind outerTnTf'Sr °f fHe ng,ht br.0ad ]'gament> and the thumb placed on its carried round6 ffwith0 ^ ^^ k Wa§ S^sped, and a thread Sthknlt f 1 r H neG,dle haVlnS a stem and an eye at its point modeiK I 6 h?anT the Uterine artery was found, taken up and tied S d off f a lr~tieu • The same was afte™ds doae onthe before the r . f forefinger being now placed behind and the thumb before the ligature, the rest of the broad ligaments were cut tl.Jk from above downwards anrl fw b i c i 7^ directed obliquely the upper and hinder pit of Bo^Zn8;-0"' ,hrouBh at hst npwards, and with fhpir flironri 1 m loth loop-tiers were now turned bowel proZTthey 1*Z ? 7°" ?e pubeS- If the omentum or symptoms whidiltoccurathIf6trheand ^ mUSt corresPonTtoThe •tone of .uWmTter 1m C” b<J °f bad kM’ "jec- caonot!'accordira °JJj” li8*ment. th« little artery of tho ovary ng to Recamier, well g.ve rise to bleeding on account of the exteus2 O Journal Ilebdomadairc, vol. vli. p 123 \\ .. , , . » vu. p. (/>; Above cited, vol. i. p. 519, i828 EXTIRPATION OF CANCEROUS WOMB. of the ligament, and if it be not divided with a very sharp bistoury. This part may be compressed with the finger, torn, and even a thread carried round it with a much- curved needle. The ligaments of the womb should always be cut through gradually, so that the divided parts may be kept close to the external pudic aperture. Roux has extirpated two cases of cancerous womb in this way. Both died on the second day. 2529. It is superfluous to speak particulai’ly of the difficulty of this operation, and of the dangers which may follow it. Of all the cases men- tioned in the preceding paragraphs, the whole excepting Sauter’s, Blun- dell’s and Recamier’s, had a quickly fatal result, and even in these three cases the consequences were not permanent. Sauter’s patient had a vesico-vaginal fistula, and died four months after of exhaustion and con- sumption ; Blundell’s died within the same year of cancer of the vagina, and Recamier’s patient can scarcely stand or walk, so doubtful is the permanent result. But without it, according to our present knowledge, those who suffer from cancer of the womb, are certainly doomed to a most painful death. Of the several modes of practice described, that of Reca- mier seems to be the best. Gendrin (a), after having collected all the known cases of extirpation of the womb, proposes the following mode of extirpating the womb, by which he endeavours specially to ensure stanching the blood, and lessening the painful dragging in bringing down the womb, as he considers that nearly in all the cases which have died in the first two days, death has not been caused by the inflammation, but by the depression of the powers from the pain in dragging down the womb during the operation. The patient is placed as in the operation for the stone, and a wooden gorget intro- duced into the vagina for the purpose of pressing aside any excrescences at the neck of the womb, and fixed at the highest part of the vagina on the right edge of the neck of the womb. Upon this gorget a bistoury wrapped in linen to within six lines of its tip, the extremity of which is covered with wax, or a pharyngotome is pushed to the upper part of the vagina six lines deep from below upwards, and from behind forwards, so as to pass into the broad ligament of the womb. A blunt-ended hernial knife is now car- ried into this little opening and enlarges it from above downwards m the wall ot tne vaqina to the length of eight or ten lines according to the extent of the disease. Alter removing the bistoury and gorget, the hand is passed into the vagina, and the torc- fincer into the wound; the uterine artery is found along this cut in the upper third oi the’vagina, six lines in front, at the bottom of the triangular space forming theboun- dary of the connexion between the vagina and bladder. The parts are to be separa either along the cut or further up, where it is distant at least ten lines from so as to get at the womb in the broad ligament. A ligature can then lie passed rem the womb either with a blunt, curved, aneurysmal needle, or what is easier yi n thickish leaden thread, to which a ligature is attached and held by its outer end- be not possible to get hold of the artery alone, it may be compressed with the wad the vagina by a plate of lead. The same is to be done on the left side. A button-cnoc bistoury very concave on its cutting edge is now passed into the cut on the iei- - with which the wall of the vagina is divided horizontally to the: right; the must be supported by the right forefinger, introduced half its length into L 9 j;. and the handle managed with the left hand. The front wall of the vagina ■ vided and both the side cuts connected. If the operation be performed h'gn “P’ vaaina and peritonamm may be divided together, before and behind, by two ,ral'.A cute I f the peritoneum be not at the same time divided, a pharyngotome is deeply into one of the two side cute at the back of one broad ligament through t / ^ tonlum. which after having been previously stripped off as far as P0^1^ . and ;s to be divided with the hernial knife, first behind and afterwards bifo > in doing this the whole left hand must he employed for using the knife m ’ 'i"^hich A doulfle hook or a pair of hook forceps are now fixed in the body of the i ™ E ^ must be drawn gently down, without bringing it into the v«lva. The having been passed into the vagina, is pushed into the cavity of the teiij, ^ 0f knife carried behind the right ligament of the womb, which is I,!alk hI! ded from the womb being drawn to the left by the hook, and the broad ligament di („) Observation* et Hcmarques sur VExtirpation ile EUterus; in Journal General <ie Mrdecine, p 18Z9. Oct. ,.91. ; JP*" r j829 EXCISION OF WOMB BY THE ABDOMINAL SECTION. behind forward, whilst the bowels are kept back with the fingers. The other side is to be managed in the same way drawing the womb to the right. The womb must now be twisted obliquely on its axis, and gradually withdrawn. was performed bv Heath (a) of Manehestpr with tho .• f t > [■Excision of the Uterus by the Abdominal Section, menced under the notion of the disease being’an ova ' large cut having been made, it was thought advi tumour though belonging to the womb.] (n) London Medical Gazette, vol. xxxiii. p. 309. 1344.[ 830 ] SIXTH DIVISION. LOSS OF ORGANIC PARTS. 2530. The loss of organic parts is either the consequence of external injury, of operations, or of destroying ulceration ; or it is a congenital misforraation. The means for the removal of such misformations, or for : restoring the functions of lost parts (Chirurgici Anaplcistica) are of two kinds, Organic Restoration, or Mechanical Apparatus. I.—OF ORGANIC RESTORATION OF LOST PARTS. Tagliacotius, De Curtorum Chirurgia per institionem. Venet, 1597. Rosenstein, De Chirurgise Curtorum possibilitate. Upsal, 1742. Dubois et Boyer, Dissert. Queest., An curfee Nares ex brachio reficiendae? Paris, 1742. Carpue, J. C., An Account of Two successful Operations for restoring a lost Nose from the integuments of the forehead; with Remarks on the Nasal Operation. Lon don, 1816. 4to. Graefe, C., Rhinoplastik, oder die Kunst, den Verlust der Nase organisch zu ersetzen. Berlin, 1818 ; mit sechs Kupfertaf. Sprencel, W., Geschichte der chirurgischen Operationen, vol. ii. p. 185. Halle, 1819. 8vo. Graefe, C., Neue Beitr'age zur Kunst, Theile des Angesichtes organisch zu ersetzen; in Journal fur Chirurgie und Augenheilkunde, vol. ii. p. i. Delfech, Chirurgie Clinique de Montpellier, vol. ii. Dieffenbach, Chirurgische Erfahrungen, besonders liber die \\ iederlierstellung zerstorter Theile des menschl. Korpers nach neuen Methoden. Berlin, 1829-38. Labat, De la Rhinoplastie, Art de restaurer ou de refaire completement le Ne*. Paris, 1834. Blandin, Autoplastie, ou Restauration des parties du Corps, qui ont etc denotes, a la faveur d’uu Emprunt fait it d’autres parties plus ou moms eloignees. Paris, i»w- Zeis, Handbuch der plastischen Chirurgie. Berlin, 1838. Serre, Traite' sur l’Art de restaurer les Difformite's de la Face selon la Methode par deplacement ou Methode framjaise. Montpellier, 1841 ; avec un Atlas. Dieffenbach, Operativ Chirurgie, vol. i. p. 312. von Ammon und Baumgarten, Die plastische Chirurgie nach ihren bishengeu Leistungen. Berlin, 1842. Liston, Robert, Practical Surgery. London. Fourth Edition, 1846. Svo. Mutter, Thomas D., M. D., Cases of Deformity from Burns successfully treated J Plastic Operations. Philadelphia, 1843. Svo. Cases of Deformity of various kinds successfully trea by Plastic Operations. Philadelphia, 1844. 8vo. Fergdsson, William, A System of Practical Surgery. London, 1846. 8vo. cond Edition. lit 2531. History points out the methods of organieMiy Tutoring tie oarts of the face, especially of the nose, the mutilations of winch ^ Bj SS horribly, under thra distinct classes. Either the netghbonnng831 HISTORY OF NOSE-MAKING. skin, especially that of the forehead, is made use of; or the skin of the arm, whilst still remaining connected with its original seat, till it has become organically connected with the part on to which it has been trans- planted ; or the transplantation of a completely detached piece of skin upon the part to be supplied. The ancient bad practice of restoring old divisions and clefts of the nose by drawing together their edges fresh pared and detached to some extent, or by encouraging granu- lation must be distinguished from restoration by transplanting. 2532. The origin of organic restoration is lost in the earliest periods of Indian history, and appears to have been preserved from age to a^e in certain castes, especially the Koomas or Potters. In India, where many criminals are punished by cutting off the nose, ears, and lips, the frequency of such mutilations has manifestly led to this operation. The peculiarity of the Indian Method is, that the flaps of skin necessary for the restora- tion are formed from the skin of the forehead. About the middle of the fifteenth century, the art of restoring lost noses was found in Sicily, in possession of the family of Branca, from whom it passed into Calabria, to the family of Bojani, but with the end of the sixteenth century it was entirely lost. About the same time it was prac- lsed by Caspar Tagliacozzi, of Bologna; he wrote a special work on the subject, and brought it into great repute. It is doubtful whether this operation was brought from India to Italy, perhaps by the Arabs or I/.,.6 m!-S!!0np'ies, or whether originated in Italy itself. The cliarac- e stic of the 1 agliacozzian or Italian Method, is the formation of the restoring flaps from the skin oj the arm, which, after a prepara tory manage- ment are attached to the seat of transplantation. TagLacozzi had but w !nLf° TerS a scholar. CoRTESI described his master’s and his own < somewhat modified operation m 1625; Griffon performed it twice Molinetti once, and Thomas Fienos gave an extract relating to h inm lT Zf S W°rk- Ior a lon& whiIe after> this operation sunk into disuse, since by most people it was held to be inapplicable or fabulous t „ry UV°Tu «10Ught ab°Ut iL Yet in India it was still practised’ fceven by an English Surgeon named Lucas, who had learnt it from the V °Pera or«’ and was successful ; and in England it was perfumed I jI 10 18°3’ and by Sutcliffe («), though by both unsuccessfully In 1814, however it was first performed with good result by Carpue « m two cases which he has described in his Paper In Germany ’ I z tTeirjS1 rr ,in ,816’ & * ‘Plasty. Akholi Gr^r r |ngU1 ? T German Method of BWno- m cations ht has hovvovot n u ,nany niceties and compli- this oiratio; ar d must’ Z ^ i“UCh t0 tlie real improvement of •1 'Surgery in GermL.v 111 ° T i “i the. actual creatol' Wa»tic Reiner Textor mv'splf t? txaml),c had quickly numerous followers, and others ' IBiinonSu Rust> vof Waltiier, Beck, Dzondi, Fricke, 1 nut Plastic Surrrpiv «• ^ a °ne actually improved and simplified, it he like Ti.p L ^ • JS extended to the restoration of eyelids, lips, and ■ „ 1 ha mMt services in this respect have been rendered Carpuk, above cited, n. 41. ha ?»• . . , . ** C®) Histoire dc 1 Academie ties Sciences. 1721.METHODS OF REPAIRING 832 by Dieffenbach, who has devoted himself to this branch of Surgery it) with peculiar zeal, and has contributed, by numerous clever operations fo various mutilations, to the establishment of Plastic Surgery. In England since Clrpue’s time, Plastic Surgery has found little sympathy (1). IIuti chison only, in 1818, and Davies in 1823 (a), have performed Rhino- plastv. In France, Delpech, in 1818, had performed plastic operations for the restoration of the scrotum, of the lips, and of the nose, at ^rss according to the Italian, and subsequently after the Indian manner. Aften him followed Mouleau and Thomain, but by Dupuytren, Lisfranc Martinet, Velpeau, Jobert, Labat, and Blandin, numerous opera tions were performed for the restoration of the nose and other niissinpj parts, and new methods were described. . It is however, remarkable, that in the greater extension of Plastic Sur - gery, from it being thus generally taken up, the restoration by means of; detached piece of skin, the Italian method has been rather avoided, ant that by flaps from the neighbouring skin, the Indian method, general; preferred-many, Graefe (J)> Dzondi (c)> Bunger (d), and others, haw performed that described as the second Indian method, in which, atte beating a portion of the skin of the rump with a wooden shoe till it hat swollen considerably, a triangular piece with the cellular tissue is cut out placed on the stump of the nose, the edges of which have been previously refreshed, and there fixed (e); Bcnger’s operation, however was tM only one which succeeded. This operation is very rarely performed a the completely detached skin has rarely sufficient life for organic con I “ThTchelius is in error on this point; Plastic Surgery has not been so much neglect* b^^i^E^g^and^tho^g^pr'^^ly r tL7iX(lof 2iS5B be added as another reason, that our young men are not m the habit of amusing selves with slicing off each other’s noses in sword duels («,).-J. T S. Q 2533. The following may be generally distinguished as tl , b, reparation by a fold of skin from the neighbourhood, eithe’ fixed . its edges, or by contact of its inner surface, which hate bee j P 111 a'l'orniaHon of a flap with a neck, upon which it is twisted1 rouii<d. ^ (i In-healing of a bridge of skin, in which the cut forming| is carried uninterruptedly in the wound formed by its reinot al, ai twisted upon the whole thickness of its stem. , , t the eeitr* y Removal of the flap, in which one of its edges >^^tached tofl.e ^ of the pert to be supplied, the loosened Hap being earned ^ ^ (,i) London Medical Repository, vol. xxi. p. 30 t) 8. — Jahres'rerieht i'lber dJ chimrgShe und a^genarrbelicl.e Institut zu Berlin. 1819 5 P-4|l- „ Rust's Maiazm, vol. i. p. o. Journal von Graefe und von Wai.theh, vol. iv. p. 559. i SIT —Huff Gazette de Santc, No. 1A- ‘ ltUT land's Journal, vol. xx*'1!' J!? f lhastic Surgery (/) For the complete history oil see Zeis, above cited. part i. P- 22 (g) Dieffenbach, above cited, par part ii. pp. 84,8o. 184.). Pif-TEENSAC" , hi dompare on these subjects Blandin, Zeis, and others.833 OR RESTORING THE NOSE. 2 Drawing- over the skin. 5 Lifting up sunken parts, as of the nose. • i JlllP1anti”S’ for the restoration of a partially destroyed part, for instance, the bridge of the nose, and the like. I? Overplanting, by which a nose rendered irregular and jagged by some teSr' ’ 18 C0Vered 0r 0VerlaPPed by a flaP from Jthfskinyo? the 6 l{'!clerp|,aiJting'’ for the purpose of supporting the sunken parts when ^ q,'i,e ^ ^ “"dersetfing a SS fishilous pa£ag^ther ‘ ^ the objeet »f aP ^ep and wide purpose °f o,osins ^ prT,ert'Z?r uVnTonW‘th n,“C0US memb™e’ °f P®* disposed to unite, to plMWflS® ‘lle 6dgeS °f ‘l,e $ti" *° Prevent «'>e crumpling 0f trans- S Fixure by holding. * PransP]antation by gradually moving the flap onwards ^LramPulantatl0n by removal °f the flap. I “avebeen recently practised' and a hv^ f impr°vemeiits> which t iefect provided for bm cvPn til ^ tbem T me^ b a congenital w! ‘nd the removal of any verv serimw .rest01atl?n of any miportant function, I » the restoration0feyelWsZ aS for ^cel 4 ;agmal fistulae and the like. Tn m the closure of vesico- ■/aginal fistulae and the like Tn d,nm ~T.~3 b.uusultiU1 vesico- | vhich the removal of deform i tv it he plastic operations, however, in E ormation of a nose the dano-Jr nf h pnncipa! object, as for example, the a k failure, or a^mperfeSulI ‘a„d TT’, ? p°?ibi% °f |3eidayS imperfe0t’ a"d ve,'>' "”lik“ 'heoitoj'^„fl?b?wel'l !St°0fP^K —h ma r I;”, where it is not Ly antl,vilalily ®f 0* I 'eh it is iniplantetl is not very toutrli liar,I' e,lsltlve> all(I the part upon ■,Ja* belomrimr -5 P"1* of ‘he face. I have, however, seen ■ase beltm ' oteu 0,1 0Uier Pai'ts of w cl ,n svnm.u:„ ,t , horrible deformity. In defects from accident, 3 111 syphilitic destruction „f ti “'""“'V** 01 detects from accident, I '"gtushed the ZoonoZ‘if*6. "“*■ » >?" ‘he disease is completely I"1* defleien, E L , aVr°“rable' De«h of the flap may n °f blood. ’ nd also fro"i excessive influx and conk uLvol. ix, °834 VARIOUS MODES OF REPARATION COMPARED. Although the cure of the nose be completed, yet in progress of tin very considerable changes may take place in it which will materially chan< . its previous form and condition. If the nose have at first a tolerab { shape, yet it may gradually shrivel, especially on its two sides and uppA part, the granulations which were developed on its interior becoming, at last connected on both sides, so that the two halves of the nose into one solid mass, by which its root shrinks, whilst its fore part thicken h the nostrils contract, and are almost entirely closed at the end. Suoj shrivelled noses in no respect resemble the engravings which have bet- given of them soon after the operation, and are as remarkable in the* form as they are disfiguring. All endeavours by subsequent attempts, ■ improve the shape of the nose, are generally fruitless, although experienot* proves that wounds in such new noses are easily curedAiy adhesion bij union with the neighbouring skin usually cannot be effected ;and cod j monly takes place only after long-continued suppuration. 1 hese circunj stances require serious consideration in settling the value of many p a, -*- operations, and specially that of rhinoplasty, m order to guard excessive enthusiasm which this operation has excited among many of W* and these are the circumstances which have led some practitioner*I Klein (1), to prefer mecl.anical to organic restoration of the nose (1) Klein (a) insiders an artificial nose of lime wood preferable to one made fro- th e skin of the forehead. , 4 * 9535. As regards preference of the various modes of organic restora iod and specially of the nose, putting aside the totally ineffectual transp J “on of a completely separated portion of skin (1) and the employe If the skin of another individual, that method is to be generally prefer*j ta which the restorative flaps are obtained from the neighbourho£ rath than that by which they are obtained from a distance. The Indian mot [s for the patient far less painful and its result more certuJ than^e I*J» method, and if the nose-bones be deficient, the vault of the - - tolerably supplied with a pad formed by turning mthe flaps 'l h remaining' on the forehead, which has been objected to in this JST/disappears, so that little or no defoi^tyispro^orf- 0.n when the skin of the forehead cannot be made from the skin of the temples, which although t be more tial, and its connecting strip be longer and usually sufficed^ ment vet is a much more considerable injury, and the hairs g ^ upon*the nose cannot always be completely “ "JP* can 'on repeatedly pulling them out. 1 he skin of the cheeks and upper P be used hi partial defects of the sides of the nose. 1 he t as given by Grabfe, is indeed less tedious ban the Italian but. , only in ve?y healthy persons with very healthy skin. Buth^Jvanc fastening the arm to the head subjects the patient to the wn s tl.<> flans die more readily, and if suppuration ensue on its cell the difficulty is further increased by its spreading over the sm a'detach( m , c'mnlv raring the edges of a destroyed nose and transfern gU | poltiol of skin from some «j*^J**& fSSSt'sS «***• \ (a) Ueber Rhinoplartik ; in Hoidelb. klinisch. Annalen, vol. • P-UNION OF COMPLETELY-SEPARATED PARTS. 835 Balfour (a) has given two interesting cases, in one of which, parts all but com- pletejy. and in the other, parts completely divided, were reunited by simple replacement- aud hence lie thinks, that the practice of attempting the reunion of separated parts’ had >‘eth^7oTnts of tWnf rS 7“ ^ been, doue'’’ (p' 42S0 In the case, a boy it ' i i ihl? {}n*T comPletely separated, with the exception of a had hemslmtini t wi”0' / “f” ed the Parts> in consequence of having fintrs were eiended ^ • Jhe P°intS hung at riSht “glcs when thf gers weie extended. The point of the index was cut off' at the middle of the nail the next finger a little above the nail, and the ring-finger at the root of the nail The O Thll-^swr —nymuch bruised, but cut perpendicularly” *' * * *a* cure',1,e «• SI ;tXSTf fcTeftV,^11 (“ '?? J4 >‘816) “ » hatche, ... off a ... .asSFi51^^ Occident, he was able to fot ®cPa! £fte<4’ dncl m a month from the time he met with the li^ Hst “ *hi" WO* the t’owersCqr' \i 0’wcrv;ition3 demonstrative Hfe been, hv ,°LN-_t.ur.e t0..reunite Parts which "nal Sysw in PA- i^Uy,se.Earated from 'he «edi=al and Sur- !■'<) twaif n01- \- P- ddi. - JS14. ««e or Reunion of a separated Finger ; Edinburgh Medica] and Surgical Journal, vol. xii. (c) Dc la Reunion des parties entierement sena- rees du Corps; in Journal I-Iebdomadaire de Me- deeme, vol. v. p. 15. 1831. 3 it 2NOSE-MAKING FROM 836 was bitten off by the other; five hours after, it was replaced by the Surgeon of th J prison, and in about ten days it was firmly united. • ' P I am not quite so sanguine as Balfour was, who thought such treatment might b advantageously employed in many wounds or rather slicings received in the held o battle • but still I should feel disposed to make the attempt again, under similar circum) stances as even if a portion only of the detached part adhered, there would be less oi the granulating process required, and therefore the cure would be more quickly effected! —J. F. S.] OF NOSE-MAKING FROM THE SKIN OF THE FOREHEAD. 2536. In the Indican method of Rhinoplasty, which premises, that th< skin of the forehead should be healthy, perfectly movable, sufhcien ] thick, and free from scars and eruptions; a model of wax or fine clay required, which should fit accurately, be handsome, and correspond to th* form of the person’s face. This is to be placed immediately on th. stump of the nose, and held there firmly, whilst with a fine J brush, dipped in some not very soluble varnish the base to which thd artificial nose is to be attached is carefully marked with a limL In thi way are mapped the longitudinal cuts on the sides of the nose, and t j transverse one for the septum. The longitudinal cut, foyefres* the edge, should be begun at the upper part of the stump of the nt* . close to where, after twisting round the flap of skin, the fixi n 1 side edge must begin; the two side cuts must not umte at top. A the dimensions of the model having been sketched on a piece of paper so that its entire surface be obtained, the shape is to be cut out o pape and placed upon the forehead, the septum above and the root of the . m below, between the eyebrows, but less low down, and varnish a line marked round it. If the forehead be low and the figu« would fall upon the hairy part of the head it must be placediobliqudy Where at bottom the side cuts are about five lines apart, 1 Y ' continued straight down to the root of the nose, to mark he bndga skin. The suture points are now to be marked, first aroi stump, two on the upper point of the side cuts, a line and ■^ half out wards two on the lower end of both side cuts, and opposite each other between these the spaces for the other suture points are eas.^J^red “ these have been marked upon the paper model, and from it tram the forehead. • n,-.ired vritl As in the directions above given by Gr^fe, themes ^ flap 0 coloured varnisli are easily obliterated during P; •, } the flap made b; skin should be cut out of sticking plaster, fixed on the forehead, ai V fl„, i ... . .. it.'. ...1 nn inch skin should be cut out of sticking piaster, nxeu ““. '“^‘^T^effenbach.) As the fla| cutting round it, but a quarter or third of an inch la g ( - ma(le t00 small; th< always shrinks considerably, care must be taken that it- Dr0Cess, its edges dm* septum especially must be broad, because, during the scarring process and it easily becomes too narrow. A model for comparison may ues too narrow. A model lor compai ^ the pttrpo» Zeis (a), from Graefe. which also l.ete *he ,runJ“tc’ ^recommendation, « of assisting the union of the wound in the forehead. - , ... ^ th*. wound oi .i . thi<nn 1 nnrr nnmt.Q. SO !1S tO of assisting the union of the wound in tne iorcneau. y ■ . o( t]je wound oi allow the flap to run into three long points, so as to render the umo sufficient foi the forehead more easy, ' does not answer the purpose, md «m> only ^^JVmed. « sundving the deficient tip of the nose. In some cases Dieffenbac »rhco- suppiymg tedii let fis. ■ suDDlying the deficient tip or me nose. . .. . more partico- i 1 Ann nf skin from the forehead, which method will be presently ar0. ^ ensue, (Graefe,) is superfluous. . . pd^es of1*14 '• 2537. The operation is to be now begun by paring ‘ o (a) Above cited, P- 267.837 THE SKIN OF THE FOREHEAD. stump of the nose; or, if there be no stump, by making grooves in the skin close to the opening of the nose. In the first case, the edges are to be cut sore, whilst held with hook forceps, and the cut is to be carried through the whole thickness of the nose-stump. As much as possible of its substance is to be preserved ; but both sides must be made as near alike as can be. If a part of the wing of the nose remain, but dropped in !t must be first separated from its adhesions and raised. If the nose be still whole, but curtailed and dropped in, it must not be removed, but according to Diefeenbach, covered by planting upon it a flap of skin! for the reception of which, as well as when the whole nose is want- mg, a strip of skin, a line and a half wide, must be cut out, and thus a sufficiently deep groove formed. Lastly, a broad transverse groove must be cut out to receive the septum ; or the upper lip being drawn well from the upper jaw, and the scalpel thrust through where the lip is attached to the jaw comp etely separates it to the breadth of an inch and more according to the thickness of the septum (Zeis.) The bleeding must iJ “ "f -.0 only when L is isuffldent vessels. The preliminary stitches may now be made at the points marked around the stump of the nose, and the threads held by an assistant • ortliev m 2538 6 aftenva,rds’ vv„he” th« flaPis t^ned down and properly’app ed 2o38. The separation of the frontal flap is now to beproceeded with [The convex scalpel being inserted rectangularly at the topmost point' I H:’JV.Vlth a sharp bold stroke, along the marked line, or at the edo-e of I „ -V1C U\° P aster’ tbe sk*a of the forehead through its entire thickness avoiding the bridge, which still remains on the root of the feeted PffVf thei flaP 7S n°VV §’rasPed with hook forceps, and carefully dis n!vith h^ fr- \ffalea aP°neuroticai"'hich is preferable to removing it . the galea itself, to render the flap as thick as possible and hi ! ? Rto t0 '«“ ’I- wfS marine briZ ill if ’ °i \ 16 ^ne end of t ie cut> circumscribing the flap is carried L - S'",fP 0f th? ““ * aiwntageora, Ie... and more pl'„ fro” *,his ,4< * “ thc “tote "»J be continued along the bridge of .kin J ' be obt“»ed, t« ssasrjs ana ith skin at the operations. For this purpose he boundsLc°T.eni)S the inner surface Lurved cut, extending from the wing of the nose above thl* /r011tal ,flaP above with a r? ivides it by two vertical cuts into t l • above the septum, and after separating w 'ngthways forms the septum, and the two sidriffeccs''' ',11lddle folded together ’ with a needle from without inwards -md f also ,folded ln> and with a thread »d knotted, are kept in this position that th»d * T11"n outwards> and having its I wMed skin. Blasius had prSSS?in'T °f the .n°se ma-v b* formed of a ch, also, by forming an oval flap fronuhe foreheadS iT/3! SU°,cels’ aild Dhsffen- ■ lt into. This mode of practice is the 1” end of which he twice ¥; v.ery thin, as the otherwise" shrivllle,t 3 advaataGeous lf the skin of the forehead Venings of the nostrils easily narrow. e"C °f the n0SU gains tbickness> and the r fisted iialf'round on hi Sis s^Sa^ts^^d6^ 'l "T droPPed down- and f ^served whether itc „,t ‘ ’ 1 at,!ts ePlcJermal side is outmost, and it is I fie groove prepared f Ca" apP led to t,10S(: °* t,ie nose-stump, or into senttl still moie, and the side cuts lengthened838 NOSE-MAKING FROM some lines lower. If the flap fit at every part, as soon as the bleedinj ceases, its attachment by the interrupted suture must be proceeded with the threads previously introduced in the stump of the nose being passes through the corresponding edge of the flap, and finishing with that on th< septum. After the wound has been cleansed of the blood that hangs about the threads are tied in knots from above downwards, so as to produce tin closest application of the edges, and when at any part these gape asunder another stitch must be introduced. Kg v ii 9 >1 Union with the interrupted suture is the most convenient, as the twisted suture wit thin insect-pins, according to Dieffenbach’s plan, is in many parts very difficult t apply, and in withdrawing them, the easy tearing asunder of the edges ot the wourn is to be feared. Graefe’s ligature-stem, which after its application may be so separate* on the face, and each part fixed with plaster, that no tension is produced, is useless and not to be recommended. And equally so are his pieces of ivory placed beneatkj the ligatures (a). 2540. The wound in the forehead is now to be brought together, when the nature of the wound and the yielding of its edges permit, with insect ! pins and the twisted suture, and the middle of the remaining open spac* covered with a piece of soft German tinder, and with lint and sticking plaster. Advantageous as it is to draw the wound in the forehead together by uniting some o its points, for the purpuse of shortening the time of cure and lessening the scar ye however/drawing the wounded edges forcibly together should be cautioned against Also, when the frontal wound is healed merely by suppurat.ou as proposed by Graefe and properly brought together with sticking plaster, with good management there wit not he any scar, as is commonly stated. 2541. Into the apertures of the attached nose, quills, covered with Inl- and oiled, should be introduced ; or, according to Zeis, tubes made of plates of caoutchouc, which have recently come into use. 1 mgs. smeared with rose ointment (Graefe) inconvenience the patient, because they prevent the passage of the air through the nostrils. The pa®* should be kept in bed in rather a sitting posture, with his head sufficiently bowed forwards; he must be kept quiet, and his diet should be antiphlogistic. When the nose first becomes discoloured and seems fallen together, must not be considered a bad omen; turgor usually soon sets in, the na swells, reddens, becomes shiny and moderately tense. If these symp o - become severe, if the nose be bluish and hot, ,t must be treated strictly antiphlogistically, cold applications are to be made to it, and ge"^, local blood-letting by leeches or by scarification. If, as often happens, these circumstances, there be bleeding from the edges of the nasal aperture it must be kept up for tl.e due depletion of the flap. In one ca-e 1. this bleeding continue twenty-four hours, and with the ba«t resu • when the bleeding is considerable, must it be stanched by t le . 1• j of German tinder. It is more common that the nose is en 1 ^1(? by overloading than by want of blood ; but if due turgor do> not^ on, if the flap remain cold and discoloured, light aromatic ajp must be made. If gangrene ensue, it is either partial, and the r ^ attacks only a straw’s breadth of the edges of the flap, or if t],e Ta/lop, pus presses out along the whole cleft of the wound, and entire flap dies. r o-nnwrene Besides the above-mentioned causes, the occurrence of gang or depend on the tough, callous nature of the edges of the - ^ ^ r : pari.839 THE SKIN OF THE FOREHEAD. from constitutional dyscrasic symptoms, or from improper irritating treat- ment, whilst there is increased turgor of the flap; then the gangrene usually appears from the third to the fifth day after preceding symptoms of increased turgor. It is well worthy of notice, that the surface of the nose has frequently a gangrenous appearance, and after throwing off a superficial slough, good granulations appear, and the flap remains perfect (Walther). The best sign is when the united edges of the wound are covered with a crust of dried lymph, from whence speedy union may be safely concluded. The removal of the stitches or of the pins should in general be effected on the third or fourth day, and the union is to be preserved by strips of court-plaster laid across. Other matters, as nervous symptoms, erysipelas and the like, must be treated according1 to the ordinary rules. 2542. When the nose has completely united at all points and the lower part of the wound on the forehead has scarred, if the flap have been ■ twisted round, a narrow bistoury must be passed under the fold of skin tformed by the twist of the flap, which should be cut through obliquely upwards so that a small flap is formed ; and this is to be applied to the raw made upper part of the stump of the nose, for which purpose a suture is • only sometimes proper, but the application of sticking plaster is generally nsufficient. If there still remain any pufRness of the frontal flap, it must ■ be got rid of. 1 If the bridge of skin have been formed by continuing the cut into the wound on the nose-stump, and the bridge heal in, a myrtleleaf-shaped piece must be cut out of it, and the edges united with insect-pins and the 'twisted suture. But if there be too much skin on the back of the nose it f roust be completely removed. ? 1 2543 For the purpose of perfecting the form of the nose after union s complete, various modes of after-operation may be requisite, which however, dare only be first undertaken when the skin has recovered ■■■ is natura! condition. A puffy scar, when not expected gradually to E“* an‘l disappear, should be cut out with two parallel cues, 'and 5 edges of the wound closed with the twisted suture. Deep scars must ii ittle 6 CUt °i?’ and the edgeS °f the wound be also somewhat loose, a ■ tUe more skin must be removed from the bottom than from the surface ?.'"d he2VOun,d br°oght together with the twisted suture. If the nose be I imi tn Ti and misshapen’an a]mond- or myrtle-shape piece should, accord- t ZZIT’ fb!,CUt °Ut’ and the edSe of the wound united aW^rii iTf thVP 0f th,e nose proJect t0° littIe> a flaP from the new , Sh0,dd be made> according to Dieffenbach, by two slightly curved •» f nowto‘c"S “ " a"f,c “"<1 diverging below towards the septet ' bus the spactTfo^Ihe6 ?tthei.woun^ be with a twisted suture" and n<; e com nr,L • \ r. e mhealmg of the flap be restricted, the flap must 4 > «bat the tip ofTe nose ‘sha'l'i ^ S°me retail,i"S aM)aratus. ■ the nose, is fastened -i mm ° *'S and t laws forwards, thereby shaping the tip * >e nose and give it the „mn,r r Presf‘'‘S instrument which can act on various parts of ■ inter, and only laid askle in Sll ' apparatus is ,to he worn the whole of the first i >e hot rays of the sun ! following summer, that the nose may be exposed to With the restoration of the whole nose must also be classed thoseSUPPLY OF DEFECTIVE 840 cases in which there are only single defects, to wit, of the wings and sides ol the nose, of the ridge and septum, which must be managed by transplant- ing the skin from the neighbouring parts. 2545. Attempts to supply defects of the icings of the nose from the< skin of the cheek had no satisfactory result; hence Dieffenbach prefers, the skin of the forehead. After paring the edges of the stump of the.* nose, a sufficient flap of skin is separated from the forehead, the side oi; the nose cleft, the flap twisted to that side, and fixed with twisted sutures.-* The neck of the flap is for a time healed into the cleft on the side of the nose ; but after the scarring is complete, it is removed. The wound or I the forehead is brought together with the twisted suture. When only a narrow portion of the wing of the nose is deficient, Dieffenbach cut! off the edges, as in the operation for hare lip, and brings them together with insect-pins If a large piece be wanting, he cuts out a corresponding portion frcm the healthy sidi so as to make both sides of the nose alike, and then fastens up both wounds. If thcH cleft be pretty broad and high, Difffenbach lengthens the cut from the point of the triangle through the wing to the bridge of the nose, and cuts out a piece from it anc the septum. If the wound heal by the first union, he cuts out a corresponding pieci from the other side of the nose. I, |fL' Ifti !'■ 12 - r |l If j. srR!l 2546. If the side edge be wanting as well as the icing of the nose, £ flap corresponding to its extent must be cut out of a piece of paper, and a like flap cut out of the skin of the forehead. Care must be taken that j the part of the flap, which is to be put into the upper part of the defect, should correspond to it, but the lower part of the flap which corresponds to the opening of the nostril must be made rather broader, and so much longer, that its edge may be folded in, to prevent the contraction of its edge. and°the narrowing of the nasal aperture (a). . 2547. If the bridge of the nose have sunk in, by the destruction ot the- bones, but the tip still stand up, a scalpel should be thrust between thes eyebrows, and the nose cleft throughout its middle to the tip. The adhe- sions which draw down the sides of the nose to the skin of the cheek must then be divided, so that the sides can be drawn up. An oval piece ot sticking plaster must be fitted between the edges of the wound to give the model of a good bridge. The plaster is then fixed on the lower part ot the forehead, and cut round in such way that one cut shall pass into t w cleft made in the nose, but the other only to the left eyebrow, and here a strip is left for nutrition. The flap is now separated, twisted round, fitted into the cleft, and fastened with the twisted suture. As this flap, after healing has a misshapen form, Dieffenbach has proposed overpiam* ing, or underhealing the frontal flap; in doing this, the operation to a first performed precisely as in inhealing, and when this is done and the scar ring complete, pieces of the transplanted skin must be cut out, an edges of the wound brought toget her by the twisted suture. 1 lie ext j- must be repeated till the whole of the inserted piece of canon has w* removed, and the edges of the original nose-stump united over tne maining thickened cellular tissue. , ifw),en 2548. The deficient columna narium may be variously replaced. ^ the column be wanting, the nose itself be very large, so that by remo'a,,oW portion it will not be disfigured, and the upper lip from being too • Sr beset with scars, is unfit for making the reparation, then a of five lines broad and about an inch long, must be cut out of the I ^ the nose, and with its neck attached to the tip. turned round, * (n) 7,kis, above cited, p. dlf>. flit841 PARTS OF THE NOSE. to the upper lip in a groove previously made there: the wound on the nose is to be united with the twisted suture. In the so-called bottle-nose, or in that form in which the nose is turned up and the bridge resembles a saddle, the cuts should be made, according to Dieffenbach, as in the former case, only that both cuts should equally descend to the free edge of the wide nostril. The lower edge of this flap 1 should be made raw, the upper and middle part separated from the under- lying cellular tissue, so that its undermost part alone remains connected and serves for nutrition. The flap thus separated, is usually so movable’that it may be drawn down to the upper lip, where it must be fastened with the interrupted suture to the part made raw, and the cleft on the middle of the nose must be united with the twisted suture. If the flap cannot be brought sufficiently down to the lip, the cartilaginous part of the tip and of the column of the nose must be so far cut transversely till the lowest part of the flap can be united to the corresponding part of the upper lip. The upper part of the flap must be attached also on both sides with in- sect-pms to the tip of the nose. When it has perfectly healed, the tip of ? be -ept d°Wn tovvards tl,e uPPer lip with pieces of sticking ' If t {Tft ?’ S° t mt the neW sePtum be llot very much stretched It the deficient column cannot be supplied by the preceding method a corresponding piece must be formed by two cuts from the whole thickness of the upper lip, of which the red part has been cut off, the entire pfece UP’ • u eCl t0 tbe tip °P tlie nose’ and tlie wound in the lip brought n I ho0 n ‘er H I1® tWuSted SUture' This turning up of the flap by wlifch lihiehU-°USlSUlfaCe 3ecoraes outermost is better than twisting Hie flap twhich is always violent; and the mucous membrane soon assumes he h appearance of the external skin (Fkicke, Dieffenbach Liston ‘ a f a flar^of its whol C?|n.d,,tl0n °f the upPer lip do not admit the formation of V of? ? -h thickness, a corresponding strip of skin must be cut out liSS I ■*? <&.<■» »'Sed ; having thus reduced the wound of the tin to a sirS inl? lgej .h« removed it, and I reunited it by means of a pin and waxed* thread Tl I0n’ hy this loss of substance, Med down,'being no longer fixed, w ^ b^Weh5,d 1,0 JP6 advantage thus gained has since continued J elaSt,c,t^ of Us cartilage. i a"d the teeth mdXS20pr^^8h^8^2^hP08ed by g?ngrene of the left fte®*8’ GENSouL(i) cut away all the aTtadnuILro thrown out during the healing J the projecting part of the jaws dissected ,m ' s?ar and integuments, chiselled ' art of the neck, and one inch of that of tlie »Lni ° lnc \es °f the skin of the upper ■nnutures and adhesive strans ti,„ r ■, °11 tk’, and brought the edges together with Vistula which was elfly coverS] ^ ^ thUS removed- *eavinf a small saliva,y |,(«2?0,iwo. CIiniq“e <,0S HflPitaux de I-yons, No. I.—Journal Hebdomadaire (*) Ibid., p. 44th de Medecine, vol. vi.[ 842 ] OF FORMING THE NOSE FROM THE SKIN OF THE ARM. 2549. The formation of the nose by a piece of detached skin, for which the skin on the inside of the arm immediately over the m. biceps is best suited, is for both patient and operator a very much more troublesome operation than the Indian rhinoplasty; it is more uncertain in its result, and better fitted for the reparation of a part than of the whole nose. The transplantation is performed either immediately after detaching the flap (Graefe’s German method,) or after previous preparation of the part (Tagliacozzi’s Italian method.) 2550. In the German Mode of Rhinoplasty, which can only be under- taken in persons who are very healthy, and whose skin is quite sound, the necessary bandages are to be applied nightly for some time, eight days, previous to the operation, so that the person may get accustomed to them; and every day, the part of the skin of the arm to be used in the reparation is to be rubbed with spirit, when the waistcoat must be drawn together, but the hood thrown back. The measurements for the flap of skin, and the markings on the nose-stump are to be made as described in the Indian method, excepting that the part of the flap corresponding to the septum, which runs downwards, should be about two-fifths narrower than the wings of the nose, and should be marked of such length, that the whole flap should be one-fourth longer than the paper model. The edges of the nose- stump are to be so refreshed that the side cuts meet above; the notch for the septum is not yet to be made. The threads for the stitches are to be introduced at the determined points. A piece of the skin of the arm ts now to be separated, with as much cellular tissue as possible, on both sides and at the upper end, and the arm having been raised close to the face, the parts are brought together by drawing the threads through the points marked on the skin of the arm. Lint is to be put into the nostrils, a upon the under surface of the flap of skin and on the wound in the arni a pledget, spread with rose ointment, which must be fastened with stripso sticking plaster. The arm is now to be kept in the proper nearness to the face by the connecting bandages. The general and local treatment m be conducted according to the rules laid down for the Indian method, more especially must the patient keep his head and arm perfect } si* As often as the lint is sopped with the pus and fluids it must be renio'» and the nostrils cleansed by injecting lukewarm water. If union place, the stitches may be removed, though not earlier than seven y hours. When the union has acquired sufficient firmness, the division the skin from the arm must be made; and this is done, after reinov1 the bandages, and whilst an assistant supports the arm, by making a r verse cut between the lower angles of the longitudinal cuts wit i a ra lon«-, convex bistoury; after which the skin flap is kept in its place by the introduction of pledgets spread with zinc ointment anm-t of plaster, and must be covered with a layer of aromatic cotton to I it. After about fourteen days the formation of the nostrils and *0 ^ must be undertaken, for which purpose, with the aid of the n , position and form of the nostrils and septum is to be marked w it * and cut out with a narrow scalpel and Cooper.s scissors, ai ' five fixed into the wound made for it with two stitches. In fronl and tl,e days, when the septum has healed, the stitches must be taken o ,843 RAISING A SUNKEN NOSE. J, ** me ill: furtlier treatment, in reference to dressing and improving the form of the nose, managed according to the Indian method. ^N?D1CT has sPecially endeavoured to further the preference of the German method by his successful practice, and has proposed an alteration of the binding appa- ratus, by which it is rendered easier to change the dressings; he puts plugs into the apertures of the nostrils. * 6 According to Gai/enzowski, the septum should be formed immediately after the separation of the flap from the arm, and fixed at once. . 2551. In the Italian Method of Rhinoplasty, the piece for the flap is marked upon the corresponding part of the arm, which, on account of its shrivelling up afterwards, should always be six inches long and four broad Instead of the trellis forceps used by Tagliacozzi, it is better, according to Geaefe, first to make the two side cuts with a scalpel, and then divide the skin from the underlying cellular tissue, with a very blunt director, a gum fleam, or even with the finger, from one side cut to the other. A piece of linen spread with rose ointment is then to be drawn by a thread fastened to its side, under the flap; the side cuts are covered with lint spread with rose ointment, with a compress, and the whole fastened with a circular bandage. This dressing is to be first removed ter three or four days, but a fresh piece of linen is to be previously introduced beneath the flap, if suppuration be properly established. In !s way, wit 1 proper modifications, according to the condition of the S° °n’, the case is to be proceeded with, and then the i- a.°n e PaP’ the uPPer end of the side cuts, must be made upon a lntroduced for the purpose. The flap should not, according to s.mnrl l bi? turned bac„k as recommended by Tagliacozzi, but merely dresCl td-ibyi C,harpie and oiIed P^teboard; and afterwards dressed with lead wash or decoction of elm bark. The flap always shrivels ± gaias.in thickness proportionally; and towards the sixth or eighth s°metimes stlb later, though according to Tagmacozzi, in a Ztlh r;meS tCOmpleteIy ?xecb The mode of the flap, and the turther treatment, corresponds with that of the German method. OF RAISING A SUNKEN NOSE. : ancUhe'snIhenithe ^ &nd cartiIages of the nose have been destroyed, Iremnino fT, remain’ though sunken, according to Dieffenbachthe fe «rbedissected,in<•■»»»i,«s l mm be stodMyhvfn ,«• ? ,S ra,sed up: The he»'1 °f ‘he patient l left nostril ,r,,i ,|' ‘ss,st‘ult. a narrow pointed scalpel passed into tile 3 rife and the soft parts divided with a stroke in the side of the iand tip of the old nc ■< ’ • • iat there is a strip of skin from the ridge uarro^r above° nnr? emi ren?ainin£ between the two side cuts, becoming '-■below by the shrivelled"^ / W! V16 skin ob t,ie forehead, and attached the flap can be railed , ?‘e ,"Pper lip>. If this be destroyed, fjjsned by a cut on eiti septum be shortened, it may be easily length- wines below the end of'tT e downvvards through the upper lip. Some i cion of the rio-ht * ■ ,16. ,rst cut> tbe huife must be thrust, at the junc- >)■‘through the whole of tl """r 4 16 cbee.k> down to the bone, and carried "door of the nose tern i "t ^ obbcluely down to the line where the ! (o) Beitriec . 68 00 the skin of the cheeks. The same cut is V vitli four plates™ 'r tthrungen fiber die Kliinoplastik nacli dor deutschcn Mothode. Breslau, 1328 .RAISING A SUNKEN NOSE. 844 continued to the left side, and thus makes two semilunar cuts at the inser- tion of the wings of the nose, which pass round their lower part outwards • and upwards into the former cut. These side flaps are now carefully divided from the bone, so that they may be raised and turned backwards. The skin of the cheek next the nose is then to be separated to the extent of three or four lines from the bone, so that it can be slipped towards the middle. The edges of the middle flap are now cut with scissors, in such way that its inner surface will be narrower than, but not separated from the epidermal side, for the purpose of giving the flap the form of a key- stone of an arch. The edges of the wings of the nose are to be cut in the contrary direction, so that a strip as thick as a straw may be removed front the upper surface, leaving the inner surface untouched. After carefully cleansing the wound from blood, the parts are brought too-ether with twisted sutures, of which the lowest should be by the side 0f°the tip of the nose. Around that part of the upper lip from which the septum has been taken, a ligature must be passed, and so placed behind it as to draw it and the tip of the nose forwards, and prevent its reunion in the old groove. The junction of the side edges of the nose with the skin of the cheeks is effected with four interrupted sutures. Lastly, two long pins are carried through the edge of the separated, skin of the cheeks behind (on each side of) the nose, through strips of stiff leather, which are pressed together on the one side by the heads of the pins, and on the other by twisting their points spirally with the forceps, by which the nose is permanently projected. The after-treatment is conducted accord- ing to the rules laid down for the Indian Rhinoplasty. ”1108 exceedingly troublesome and very painful operation rarely answers expectation, as according to my own experience, although the nose remains for a time after the operation pretty well, yet subsequently, it again shrinks. For this reason, Dieffenbach thinks it preferable, in most cases of flattened nose, to insert a strip of skin, which may afterwards be partially removed (a). [Liston’s treatment of this deformity is much more simple. He observ^:-‘‘ »jj£ times the cartilaginous portions of the nose fall a prey to abscess and-dceragon .white the integument remains intact, excepting the column, which usually s hares.the fate the cartilages. The consequence is a sinking down into the nasal cavity. Th'!' sion may be obviated by simply raising the parts after dividing any adhesions that my have formed in their new situation. By stuffing the nose carefully and neatly, gument is retained of a proper shape until the disposition to fall in is in part oven and firmness and stability obtained. Then a new columna is “4 ’264.) careful stuffing of the nostrils is continued until all has become consolidated (f Ftugusson’s (b) method differs from Liston’s, in not making use of stuffing M supporting the cheeks. He “ introduced a scalpel into the opening m the: nose, aad® sected the sunken alee from their attachments underneath, then raised the cl \uch more than half an inch from the surface of each upper maxillary bone, and cuU^. •in extent as to allow, when the finger was introduced under the nose, to ran P it into a shape somewhat like the original. He then passed two silver needle* arrn^ with steel points, and provided with small round heads, from the le the bones, right, under the nose, and through those parts which had been dissected fro h T v means of two pieces of firm leather, two inches long by one half hroaa A which^the pins were also passed, he was enabled on twisting the extremity of eacti p 4 Apt wYttmann" be^i'verUfifp^l-’e K«ien' m»l deren der Heilkunde an dor Fniversitat *u Wien, vol.%1. p. T.13—Michaei.is, Ueber die He 1 j*t jr, normalen Form eingerallencr I **e" -|-|,eiics; in Vorziehens ihrea iibrig gebliebene ^ vol. von Gbaefk und von " altheb Edinburgh Medical and Surgic* vol. xliii. p. 3t>3. 183j. bK [P u pi: [is 1 feai ’Til tea A 'if f:r: ^ IRAISING A SUNKEN NOSE. 845 spirally, after haviug cut off the steel points, to bring the cheeks near to one another, and in this way to cause the nose to become prominent. On the eleventh day he with- drew the pins, and introduced two others at different points from those first used • and in eight days more, on these being removed, the nose stood quite prominent.”] ’ 2553. If the bridge of the nose drop in, as consequence of destruction of a part of the septum, but the bony frame still remain perfect, according to Dieffenbach, a wedge-shaped piece should be cut out of the pre° viously long and down-hanging nose. The tip of the nose being stretched the straight edge of a knife is placed upon the ridge of the nose below the nasal bone, and the nose is cut through at a stroke, with the blade turned a little upwards, to the skin of the cheek. A like cut is then made ob- liquely upwards beneath the depression, so that both cuts meet at an angle and cut out a wedge-shaped piece. When the usual smart bleedino- has ceased, and the secretion of lymph into the wound has begun, two inter- rupted sutures are passed with round needles through the septum, one end of each thread cut off, and the other carried to the nostril. The edo-es of the wounds on the sides and ridge of the nose are to be united by six or eight twisted sutures. With a small, straight-pointed nose, which by cutting out a wedge- shaped piece, would be drawn too much upwards, on each side two semi- circular cuts must be made, so that the one point of the oval turn to the ridge and the other to the base of the nose. The union of the septum and of the outer edges of the wound are made as in the former case After the operation a little bump is formed on the ridge of the nose’ which at a later period becomes level. In other cases the ridge of the nose may be preserved, and merely an oval piece cut out of both side walls, so that one point of the oval turn towards the cheek, and the other to the ridge of the nose. The union is managed as before. Dlafin? fnr “m- be rntird th<l inhealinS of metallic frames aud plates of gold or platina, for putting to rights sunken noses, as has been attempted by Rust Klein Galenzowski, and Tyrrell. Although the inhealing readily take place vvt the’ plate must most commonly be removed afterwards. ^ 9 ^ ie [I recollect Tyrrell’s operation with a silver frame which consisted of „ narrow silver stem for the ridge, terminating below in three prongs, which were bent so as to support the column and wings of the nose, to which it at once gave In excellent | much difficult^Tndnt-fem0V ’ W,hat reaSOn 1 d0 n0t recollect> 'vas attended with flan dr'n { ’ d’ f my mem0ry be correct’ the nose which had been made with a i^nap, dropped down and was not very ornamental.—J. F. S.] lm a , ,, Iv?4; If lip of the nose be turned too much downwards as in i Swn^rtHlthe fold anriee SkiT 7^ iS t0 be tak*n -.point of a small scalpel, and cuTthrlgh to tleroot of 51^1^ be tip of the nose immediately rises of itself and still mo ^ 1 ” t£denCStro °f, °f * mail Sl^ it the nose and^ressld ? 'n? Insect'Pins are to be thrust across -Plate of’lead is to be worn'^n tVe^ioS “P ^ 5 °r a saddle‘shaPed[ 846 ] II.—OF THE MECHANICAL COMPENSATION FOR LOST PARTS. 2555. The compensation for lost parts by mechanical contrivances is either merely with the object of removing or diminishing deformity, or for restoring the functions of lost parts; the former is the object of artificial noses and eyes, the latter of artificial legs and the like. A.—OF ARTIFICIAL LEGS. 2556. The oldest and most simple contrivance for the purpose, after the loss of the thigh or leg, of rendering the mutilated person capable of walking without crutches, is the wooden leg, (die Stelzen, Germ.; jambe de hois, Fr.,) which, though it do not hide the deformity, still, especially with some practice by the cripple, answers its object tolerably well. For the purpose of not merely supplying the lost function of walking, but also I of giving, as far as passible, the form of the lost limb, a multitude of con- trivances have been proposed, from Pare” up to the present time. 2557. Pare' (a) gave an engraving of a machine for the amputated thigh which was furnished with a knee-joint, and with joints in the fore part of the tarsus, and with an elastic spring. Ravaton (b) invented artificial legs for those who had lost their leg immediately above the ankle. White (c) describes artificial tin legs covered with thin leather. Addison (d) invented an instrument with motion at the knee- and ankle- joints. Wilson (e) formed legs of stiff leather. In Germany Brun- ninghausen (/) made known an artificial foot, which was far more perfect than the old ones, and gave pattern to those of Stah (^), Berrens (h), Heine (i), Graefe (A), Ruhl (Z), Palm (jn), Dorx- blutii (n), and Schuruchat, for the thigh, and Wals (o), Miles, Serre, and others, for the leg. 2558. In making choice among the different kinds of artificial legs, the following points are to be attended toBesides the correspondence of the artificial with the whole leg as to form, for the purpose of removing the deformity, it must be made as light as possible, but proportionally strono-; it must allow the natural movements ; and afford a convenient and safe rest for the stump which it surrounds, avoiding, however, all painful pressure on it, and specially on the amputated surface. Simplicity of con- struction and lowness of price are, at least for the greater number ot maimed persons, important advantages. Of all the artificial legs prop » those which best answer these requirements, according to my experience, are Ruhl’s for the leg and Stare’s for the thigh. , 2559. Ruhl’s leg lias the peculiarity of well-stretched Russia leather, two inches broad around the stump, to which two strong brass hooks are attached ; with this the stump received into the socket of the leg IS s ^ (n) CEuvres, p. 904. Paris, 1798. (61 Chirurgle d’Armea. &c. Paris, 1,68. Svo. (r) Bell, B., System of Surgery, vol. vi. p.512. (d) BroMFIKLD, William, Chirurgical Observa- tions and Cases. 2 vols. 8yo. London, 1,73. fel Bill. B., above cited. (/) Richter’sChirnrgische Uibliothek, vol. xv. P7»?Vngweisung mm verbesserten chirurg. Ver- ban¥e, p 498, pi. xxiv. fig. 227 228 Berlin, 1802. (/,) Lanoknbkck’s Bibllothek dor Cb.nirgic, vol. iv. p. 173, pi. i. fig. i.-iv., pi- d fig. (i) Bescbreibungeinesneuen kunstllchcn Fusses, for den Ober- und Unterschenkel. Wurzburg, 1811. (6) Normen fur die Abldsung gntsserer Glied- massen, p. 147. Berlin, 1811. . . (I) Ueber die Ersetzungs Clnmrgie im mcinen, nebst Abbildung und lleschretbuni. kunstlichen Unterschenkels ; in Hufei. _ Journal, vol. xl. part iv. p. 1. fig- 'ij^bus (m) Dissert. (lYies. Autknbieth) de pen* artificialibus. Tubing., 1818. i rsatz Jcr (n) t eller den Mecbanisehcn W "':lcrc,re*„irt.n(. n) lelxtrden iuecnaniscoeu " . rjeene verlorenen untoren Gliedmiwsen i Apparate. Rostock. 1831 ; 'v'1]1 J_Rnss- («) Rust’s Magazin, vol. _lxib‘ \Vjen, winklkr, A., I cIkt kunsUiche ,,'fcrtafeln, )S3H. fol.—Krorief's Uururg.scbe K ] pi. ceccli.847 ARTIFICIAL LEGS. pended, and so fastened that the amputated surface is not subject to any pressure. The leg is connected by a joint to the foot-piece, and this in like manner to the toe-piece. At the upper part of the leg, on both sides, are two wings fixed with hinges, which are applied on both sides of the thigh, and drawn to with a strap. The whole leg- is made of lime- wood, properly hollowed, having been previously sawn through for that purpose, afterwards glued up, surrounded with a bandage dipped in «-lue and afterwards lacquered. ° ’ 2560. Stark’s thigh consists of a thigh-piece, made of copper or tin for the reception of the stump; of a knee-piece and leg, composed of soft but tough wood, and connected by a hinge ; and lastly, of a foot- and toe-pieces. The fastening of this artificial limb is by means of an iron rod - passing up from the thigh-piece to the hip-bone, by which it is attached with a strap around the pelvis. Over both shoulders strong straps, like breeches braces descend, and are fastened behind and before to knobs with offhe ?Egn- lhe r’f!f °f t,he;vhole bof,y rests on the padded edge e thieh piece, so that the end of the stump lies in the cavity of the thigh-piece, softly, upon an elastic leather pad. ^ 2561 When, after amputation of the leg, the stump becomes perma- nently bent, or where it has been so bent by anchylosis of the knee-joint hen, only, a wooden leg can be used. This consists of a lower ^oS turned cylindrically, upon which an upper piece hollowed in an oval or jmicircular shape rests, from which two splints an inch and a half wide . * ,lie tbl^h’the ™ter to the hip-joint, and the inner to the middle f the t llgh‘ Ihffe slants are fastened by straps to the thigh, and from I the upper end of the outer another strap passes round the pelvis. I have I f, • ^any distances extended the long splint only to the middle of the H h, gh’u?'ak"lg however> so elastic, that by means of straps it may be ** * - fts "th «tte knee-joint, the stump ni 'moving the knee jS * aitlflClal legS’ aud the maimed P™ is capable of 2o62. For the thigh, that wooden leg is best in which Stark’s soA-p* or the stump of the thigh is fixed upol, the eylindricallower dece an( f< aPPllea4lon m this sea, as in an artificial leg effected. «- ^obd. I he wooden leg has always the ad vantaa-e of simnliplKr i > firmer application, and greater lightness In fiie W t? !’ leSSPflce’ •Jump, if not too long,"rests easily .hiddenwith^a father ^ ,bent I tor Poor persons, especially of the labouring class n l K <? stocblng. mswers best. I have often seen rich persons" after h • °den le=, always aT’ S‘Ven them Up for a mere wooden leg. 8' Van°UB bnds °f B^lar?ndAcleSUbots theT" ind™ cal™ and navi- •nost artificial feet two font * ' Upp ^ 0 * ie mutilation is readiest; as in I o that the car of st™ W"* llollmrei1 padded Del,in,], vhole is puUnto a I,™,, n.7 ,, be, «*» made use of. The iked to the knee (el wij1;'7 stocking, which is drawn togetherand hove, it is necessirv tin. ^ he V ■ “"V1* “1* has considerably shrunk h walking the heel shouldl^Httl^uM Vo^^ ‘° ^ ; at 5rsr~~"* *•— — <« P. m, (°) Grakfe, above cited, p. 155.[ 848 ] B.—OF ARTIFICIAL HANDS. 2565. In Pliny (a) is found an example of the replacement of a lost hand by an iron one. The artificial hand of Gotz von Berlich— ingen is well known, and its mechanism has been described and en- graved by von Mecheln (b). Pare" (c) has given plates of artificial hands made of iron and boiled leather. Wilson (d) also manufactured them from leather. Ballif (e) of Berlin devised a contrivance more simple than von Berlichingen’s, by means of which without the assist- ance of the other hand, flexion and extension could be performed at will,. so that objects could be held firmly, and even a pen taken up and written with. Bending the fingers is effected with elastic springs, and straighten- ing with cat gut, by bending and straightening the arm. For the appli- cation of such artificial hands, it is always necessary that there should be a sufficient stump of the fore-arm. C.-OF ARTIFICIAL UPPER-ARMS. 2566. When sufficient stump is left after amputation, Graefe (/))j thinks that it may perhaps be supplied, as well as in lost fore-arm, by an i artificial hand, which must also have an artificial elbow-joint. 1 he upper- • arm must be surrounded with a sheath, from whence spiral springs pass to the fore-arm to effect the bending of the elbow-joint. Catguts fixed upon the opposite side, pass from the upper and hinder edge of the fore-arm to the armpit pieces of the chest-strap. If the arm, by bending the stump, be brought towards the chest, the fingers also by means of the springs, . remain so. If the stump be carried away from the chest by means of the stretching of the catguts, the elbow-joint, and also the fingers, are straightened. D—OF ARTIFICIAL NOSES AND EARS. 2567. If the organic reparation of the nose be impossible, or be not effected, there remains only its replacement by one made of silver plate, of lime wood, papier mache, and the like, to hide the deformity. It is evident that such nose should be made to correspond as well as possible to the form of the face, and should be coloured externally to match. I he fixing of this kind of nose, if only a small part of the original one be lost, is effected by smearing sticking plaster on its inner surface, or by sPn°jjjr in the nostrils, or by little bandages drawn through the nostrils into ie mouth, and attached to the teeth, or what is best by a spring passmgirorn the root of the nose over the temples to the back of the head. 1 mutilated person wear spectacles with his artificial nose, the deception i very complete (g). . l e 2568. Artificial ears are best made of silver, and fastened by a passing into the ear-passage, and a spring passing round the head. (a) Historia Naturalis, lib. vji. cap. xxix. il,l,ildung ha Uip piserne Hand des taplern Hitters Gii'rz tig. i. ii.—Gkissi.er, Beschreibnng unrt .l Je .....w.,p*^*«*«a x-f<=>-Hau;isi-r- abgebildet von Ch. v. Mechkln. Berlin, 1814. von U 1817. k. KSIMU—■ *— (<?) Graf.fe, above cited, p. 106-164, pi. vi. vol. ii. p. 10.3.[ 849 ] E- OF THE SUPPLY OP LOST PORTIONS OF THE HARD PALATE. o‘269.' Openings in the hard palate are either vices of the first forma- tion, as in wolf s jaw, or they are consequence of destroying ulcerations specially those from syphilis. A piece of sponge, corresponding to the nf 16 pante’ f|iie'd,t0 asilver Plate’ fills UP the space, and thus the loss of speech and difficulty of eating and drinking are got rid of. Such instruments are called obturators; and it must be remarked, that co no-e ni ta 1 cl efts nf th° FT T"7 “ havi,JS recourse to them> as both onDemtal clefts of the hard palate, as well as those produced by ulcera- tion frequently contract and close of themselves, which process is me- °f,a f°,rei«n "“*• The obtuTtoTmuTbe occasionally lemoved, cleansed, and replaced with another. F.—OF REPLACEMENT OF THE TEETH. Jprooeriv cl7P,y °nT ‘fh> “‘hers taken from the dead body, •eethtW^ V°L. II. 3 r l[ 850 ] SEVENTH DIVISION. SUPERFLUITY OF ORGANIC PARTS. 2572. To this division belong few subjects, to wit, first, supernumera^T fingers and toes ; secondly, supernumerary teeth; and, thirdly, doubled^ teeth. 15 il [lit St pBl I.—OF SUPERNUMERARY FINGERS AND TOES. 2573. Supernumerary Fingers occur under two different forms. The supernumerary finger is either articulated with the metacarpal bone of the Zmb of the foref or of the little finger; it resembles the other fingers n form, but is not provided with proper motive organs; and bj ite g««h interferes with the motions of the neighbouring fingers. Or, it ^ not merely a supernumerary finger, but there is also a supernumerarj * carpal bone, and the finger has its perfect organization and mobility. Ih TSiltiSSSa of the supernumerary finger by » J : iointino- it from its connexion with the metacarpal bone is indicated. 1 thesecond, disjointing the finger is of no use as regards the deform, y . >b metaca°pai hone must also be removed. Such finger may be useful b) its free motion and perfect organization. 0 bus; teth lid! t;. liftr lath km i Ot II.—OF SUPERNUMERARY TEETH. ■ 2575. Two conditions are observed with respect to these. Either a nf ^ tooth remains firm, and that which should have its place grows in ^ other three,ion, anti penetrates through either the outer or surface^ the alveolar process; or, in consequence of,f3Xtee?h sSt*Ur I extension of the alveolar process and the breadth of the te D 8 of the ■ project, either obliquely or thrust through the fore or lund ja t alveolar process. In the former case the unnatural direct o ot tr.^ ^ tooth does not seem to depend always upon the obstruction tooth, as it is often observed when the milk-teeth loosen. . con_ 2576. Teeth standing irregularly, cause, in ^^L^oimue^d produce , siderable deformity, thrust out the lips, or irritate the tongue, an^ j ulceration. It is usually advised to draw those milk-teeth .J^ thejr the proper development of the second teeth and to bring ie ‘ . which place by pressure. But that this should succeed, the u„na- separates the milk-tooth from the other must not be toQfh n0t t tural direction not very great and the bread th. 1 ; and the first excessive in proportion to that of the first. If tins be tne tooth be quite firm, it is better to pull out the wrong die case, a..u - d standing tooth, to retain the milk-tooth.851 DOUBLE NOSE. * 2577. When the teeth stand obliquely from want of space in the alve- olar process, it is necessary to draw the oblique teeth, in which case, if this be done early, the other teeth usually take a proper direction, and fill up the socket of the tooth that has been drawn. ^ HI.—OF DOUBLE NOSE. C h/5/8' n°feS mentiofled,as examples of double nose, in which tumours fe developed from the root of the nose, have the form of L second nose • or ■•where the nose has been cleft in the middle. The former is either con- I ?eD1‘a °.r arising afterwards. Stout persons who live very well and drink I much spirits are not very unfrequently subject to such swelling and deme- nti neration of the nose, which often acquires so great a size that the enlaced > nose overhangs the mouth and covers it (1). The single remedy here con I fT m ,the re“oval °f the swelling by tying, or by the knife, which is best 1 fhe oot must be made according to the condition of t.h« The fcTStenchk VerIynC°;is^iera,°le’ and Actual cauterymayinbge nelet ■tnded ^To“tKdprf r CaSe °IthlS Mnd’ in Which “ the Ounour ex- 1 ostrils so much when he laWdowWn ?5 COaipl'tSSed the patient’s mouth and fHthin one of hisnostrilsthat herTh °.sleep> hf+he ^as obliged to keep a tin tube ■ flis tube in the day time as TbLeito breatbe’ He also generally wore it <mes from the bulk of his nose ren<Wd f110** hls m.oath and nostrils suffered at all id; troublesome. * * * The disease’ annem-prl 'eaimS without this instrument somewliat 2 *nt of the common inte^men^ the more than an enlarge- *!• large mass of ^ the latter™e buried in ShKh“ fi»S»|eb?rdiroffte“rfiagS5OUr,'“ “PI,",ed he ““ld #>“ bssue has lost ta’mSral ?mplf hJl»rtrop>>y. since Wte of elephantiasis, in which the ceilularitv is nirthm 8 rather aPPr°aches to a n ructure substituted. The mass presents7 destroyed, and a fibro-cellular Bep-red colour traversed P esents externally a nodulated surface of a purple or I'S Ti,e ^ - any cases the convexities of the „/ * , other by deep fissures, occupying in of “ateSV the "T , Where «- «1! frontal with The nasal internmente “ ,hleh ?s ,he junction of ws laterally, but accompanfed nl w • hlDg much on the palpebral fur- l»"<* a. cheek, cor “,?„di„e In ctiouTSVn.S'T"5 by * w““,'d °f the ; ! nose. The sebacious follicles areereatlv JZll} aPPearanC1' Wd‘h the tumour of ! leased in quantity, but unless extreme cleanlinef^-’ “‘V? th,elJ' secrctlon is not only n.iell and excoriates the surrounding skin.” (p. 396.)] 1S attended to’ u ls offensive in « Upon this subject may be further consulted— ■^°HiLrir?Oh Hi8t°ria Anat°m” cent’ L Wst. xxv. I Mf co-Physica,, con,. Hi. „bs. Wii. dlcales, cah. xxxiii. p. 183. °Uln<l on,Picmentaire du Dictionnaire des Sciences "'biichem der Meifici^und^^i^rgie^vol.^rpa^ j^ase’ 5u Harless rheinischen ■) e\\ * c5Sfp8l3^5,eTliTSOr? Sur8ery. illustrated ionT’ P' 3°°- ,'ondon- 1810. 8vo. Second „All°,n.the Removal of Morbid Enlargement of the Integuments of the Nose ; in Medical Quarterly Review, vol. i. p. 395. 183d. 3 i 2EIGHTH DIVISION. I OF THE ELEMENTARY PROCEEDINGS OF SURGICAL OPERATIONS. 2579. There is scarcely a Surgical Operation which can be fully per- fected on a diseased body by one single, simple act. All rather con- sist of several manoeuvres following, according to determined rules, and distinguished by the name of Steps of the Operation (OperalionsacteM Germ?) One of these is the special object of the operation, and the others must necessarily precede or follow, to effect this object, and bringJ about the restoration of the patient. The object of the operation is always the same, but the manner and way of attaining it may be very dif- ferent, and this difference may consist either in the difference of the severs steps of the operation, or of the entire way by which the attainment of the object of the proposed operation may be effected. Hence arises then distinction between Operative proceedings and Methods oj Operating. 2580. The Method of Operating is the compass of the regulated mode? of proceeding, by w hich the object of an operation in any peculiar way is attained. In the various methods of operating, therefore, not merely are different parts cut through and in very different directions, but the prac-.< tice of the methods of operating is so peculiar, that the one method does not exclude the other. . , , - Q 2581. Upon the choice of the method of operating depends for the most part the successful or unsuccessful result of the operation, just as upo the choice of the operative proceedings rests the facility of its execution. The choice of the mode of proceeding is therefore of little consequ • and depends commonly upon the operator himself. Hence also, tne • riety of opinions as to the preference of the mode of proceeding m genera is greater than upon that of the method. > . 2582. In deciding upon the preference of the various methods of P ‘ tion the following circumstances must be attended to. Tirs . 1 , fct.r lire feu »■. •-•it ESi M fit bl fea % r important organs must be injured, consequently the loss or eatiuc ^ organic parts caused by the operation, the pain, and the trauma i tion depending thereon is least. Second. The Letter met hoc mus be most fitting for the greater number of cases. Third. Inis 11 1 oJJ sist in the manoeuvres, which do not make the operator depent (be H»i »iot in ■—? ■■■ . * .» .:ii of the ,1 accidental circumstances, but which rest completely on tne ^ j operator. Hereon and upon the nature of the parts to be ''foun(’ra’ing. founded safety and facility in the execution of the method ot o[ Fourth. The quickest cure which can be effected by the opera ioi ■ an(j 2583. Many operations are subject to certain and geneia (0 these*' but few’cases require any variation in the way of their execu mn ; ] belong, for instance, all amputations, the operation for - perfectly '1 bare arteries, and so on. Such operations may tl,e^fore P tbe the dead body. rIhere are, howe\er, learnt by due practice uponELEMENTARY PROCEEDINGS OF SURGICAL OPERATIONS. 853 contrary, other operations, and their number is the more considerable which cannot be subjected to such definite rules, and of which the con- duct must necessarily rest on the special difference of the case, and of the existing circumstances These operations are the most difficult and re- quire the closest knowledge of pathology, in order to be at the moment t in a condition properly to comprehend and decide on the circumstances i which present. Here belong, for instance, the operation for S e I rupture, disjointing cutting off the ends of bones, removal of Sours |r which are of considerable size, and seated in the neighbourhood of parts that dare not be wounded without the greatest dangeAo the patient The I difficulty of the operation in other respects depends on manywrkcutl an'1 ,Sn"‘ a,'rays e°"TOCted '"‘h «• and the iTeS e^" d“’ - * ‘b« W by ,he ml«‘ no, be so up continuallv y that act 011 as a cause to keep Sroduct of the General diseased tjhe.,0peratl,on would remove merely the n Jut not unfrequltlv a H fencing and sustaining cause. Ee operation then Ins th?T dflseas® te[minates in a local disease, and lto^rP‘ rf ”Pa to the re- I T the -nsibili.y ifffi.il into very ^eatZgl U"'S trom the »P™‘i°" shoulj :: jnyaontinuance or other'drltaZT' * Tf™’ must ”»! by its ”at it have acquired the rank of a spcipP ° so Ie ated to tPe constitution, ,f eviously existing disease or havp p] f Ing organ, or have removed any Although the above^fficumstanpp«eCked V" lts ear!ier. development *n» there may be still some cases w] £e,.iera contraindicate an opera- ftat no cure can be effected hv ie'-e ln spite oP tbe decided prospect Native, if it be possible Pe* I0"j yet h ,nay be employed as a ;;25,8gndIlengthen his existence. Jy ° mitlgate the soarings of the pa- ctions on persons who can'Tcoad‘tioa 't must be observed, that ■' ogerous than in those who are ^ 1^'° ^1Ulotly and patiently, are less : tieats who have snared sevcwelvT T '!ythcI least paia' Those netl to pain and arc enfeeble,/ d ?.ng.whlIe> have become accus- arc enfeebled, generally bear operations best, which854 ELEMENTARY PROCEEDINGS depends partly on the moral influence of their earnest desire for the opera- tion, and partly on the less degree of traumatic reaction. Persons of san- guineous temperament who seem to superabound with health, are unla- vourable subjects for important operations. In like manner also, very stout persons of tall and strong make. Among nervous subjects a d»d tinction must be made between those who are very sensitive and excitable* and those who on the slightest cause drop into moral despondency and nervous stupidity. The former are much affected by the pain ol an operation, but on account of their easy excitability, they quickly again perk up, and are influenced by encouragement and comforting hopes, sc that their spirit is again aroused; but such is not the case with the latter, who with dull despondency and nervous stupidity allow every thing to-, affect them, and without a murmur give themselves up. Young persons bear operations better than old ones ; but even much advanced age doe. not contraindicate them; operations oftentimes do so much the better on account of the less degree of traumatic reaction. In gouty subjects ope- rations are always dangerous ; preparatory treatment, especia y P»rg g, i, necessary in such cases. It must be noted especially m scrofuto subjects, whether there be not any particular organ as the lungs tor ex- ample affected with that disease. Not unfrequent y after the removal a diseased part, scrofula breaks forth in the internal organs (a). 2587. From the circumstances already referred to, it may be most part ascertained under what circumstances it is nece^ry to prepaj^ a patient specially for an operation, as according to his dlffere"t such remedies must be previously employed, as either counte[‘ -bi]ftv neral disease, raise the patient’s powers, or lower the “creased se . • or by artificial evacuations, by issues and the like, ren ' «. the operation more cafe viy robust, full-bloo ed person,isboo djor some time previously be put on spare diet; and bloodletting h to if the general condition should seem to require it. , cj,a. 2588. The practitioner must determine, according to. the patie^ ^ racter, whether he may venture to make him acquain . fhim-' I immediate circumstances of the operation, or conceal[them fig, J With sensitive persons he must go very cautiously t0 '™ > ^ j sympathizing carriage and encouragement, are often exce^mg^ d in I tageous. Great sensibility must be somewhat rePre^r\yhe°^era’tion a* , such persons small doses of opium before and eai required. ., _ bdofdfl [As a general rule, the administration of opium or any .e^j often impossible I or after an operation should be carefully avoided, as it « d.ffic,^ Ontofcon- | to distinguish between the effects of the medicine and the sy “P‘01“SP"opium to * stitutional excitement. Persons who have been long in the habit ^ g ^ but , alleviate their pain,shmU not be■ can he diminished,or comply :r?l ('si ini lilt Kit hi: lib liib If-- j ■' In ^1; r alleviate their pain, should not be deprived oi h eiiuci diminished, or complete1) great care should be taken to watch the period when it can be dimmisheo f withdrawn without disadvantage to the patient; and beyond all doubt ui , quemUy be done^reatly to his benefit much more Many persons who have for a length of time suffered the aeroc.^ l. It Li nf the cartilages of a joint, and not known an hour s rest other opia,e ouiet^ t^a oui sleep the first night after the removal of the limb, ^and^ n ^ no (a) Wabobop, Lectures on Surgery; in Lancet. 1832-33; vol. ii. P- 51855 OF SURGICAL OPERATIONS. if towards night the patient drop off to sleep, none is given; but if he be restless and uneasy, opium must be given, and in such dose as shall ensure sleep, and if one be insufficient, a second should be given a few hours after, which is usually effective. Also if, on the evening after the operation, the patient should be restless or even only wakeful, although he have not been accustomed to opium, it should not be spared, as it is of the utmost importance to his well-doing that he should get sleep for the first few nights after the infliction of so severe an injury as an amputation. As to the sedative to be employed, opium is, I am sure, the most effective ; in ordinary cases, its tincture, from thirty to forty drops at a dose, as may be, is sufficient; but sometimes, especially to free livers and sottish persons, it will be advantageous to give it in form of muriate of mor- phia, a third or half a grain at a dose, and such persons not unfrequently require it twice or three times a day during the whole course of their cure. Care, however, must be taken that the bowels should not be blocked up and loaded, as not unfrequentlv happens, and is best corrected by a dose of three or four grains of calomel, which in general answers sufficiently, without disturbing the alimentary canal, and exciting diarrhcea, as other purgative remedies too frequently do. Another very important point in the treatment of operations, is the use of porter, wine or spirituous liquors ; even where the patient has been prudent and temperate, it is occa- Jf *10nally necessary that one or other of these should be given soon after an operation But I for persons who have been accustomed to take large quantities of porter or spirits, or both, and who, in consequence of severe accidents, are subjected to the amputation of a limb H *h° haT.e S®7ere Iterations, which, however, do not require operation, it is absolutely i necessary for their safety that the stimulant should not only be not entirely withdrawn I¥flen somewhat very near the quantity they have been accustomed to, must be allowed’, °,V.h y e!ther sin.k at once, are attacked with erysipelas, or are violently affected with I' 1 *5 W,;ich ?0ndltl0n they speedily die. The quantity taken may often i seem enormous under the circumstances; three or four glasses of gib or brandy and as JuhZi °r,more Wlne> and sometimes porter besides, in the course of the twenty-four ' 1S by no means an unfrequent allowance; and I have just the recollection of one ' nf h yOU,ng.f CkINlS Patlents> a P°rter at the Royal Exchange, who required a pint of brandy daily after having suffered amputation of his leg for an accident This man I *aVed bV,hlS treatment and lived many years after, doubtless following the same free course of living which had required treatment, at that period thought exceedingly m hS although at present every daf’s pra^fi 2o89. In regard to the time of year when an operation should be under- token, there is no longer any restriction, as was formerly the case with many operations If spring have any preference over other seasons, it mlepends only on the steadiness of the weather. In other respects if the cir- cumstances of the case allow the operation to be deferred, in those opera- = tiorrs, which, on account of their precision require bright light for their performance, and in persons who are subject to rheumatic and gouty • flTect.ons, and are very sensible to changes of temperature, a bright da/ tod a season when steady weather may be expected, should be preferred’ -’rhoqqnieT°f V6Ty ?PfSSlve ieat should be> if' possible, avoided. : Si T‘d.m»de » P"*io»s a proposition ■ we receo tfookro iilh iho SK °’’,eCt ”"ish his P»«o« Another ; ndanger the patient’as Wauduoi.’h r.r nti 'S mesmerism, which, however, does not b patient as Waudrop h proposal most certainly would.—J. F. S.j •fWereble/bmr^t/Vn081 .Senou8 occurrences during an operation, besides evert bleeding, the following must be noticed m Mrnrghc’hen Optr.Vlionen L-olp7Wd18b(5""<l“"^ Und d°n Nut“"rdes °els der Warms bei 1 u* («) Lancet, just quoted, p. 597.856. ELEMENTARY PROCEEDINGS OF SURGICAL OPERATIONS. First. Faintings and convulsions, which depend either on loss of blood j: on want of blood in the brain from irregularity of the circulation, or fron reflected activity of the spinal marrow, consequent on the severity of the* pain. In all these cases the operation must be suspended, the patien placed in the horizontal posture, and roused by sprinkling the face witl < cold water, by scents, especially liquor of caustic ammonia, or naphtha, ana j.-j according ’to circumstances, reviving remedies, as Hoffman’s spirit o « aether, wine, brandy, and the like, or some laudanum should be given. Second. Sudden death, which may indeed be the result of very severer; pain, or of loss of blood, and especially of the entrance of air into the veins i j This last accident is more frequent, and more especially occurs when argod . .1 n .1 _ 3 ^ 4- ,r»,w-w mnnli rvnllon T- veins^particularly those of the neck and armpit, are much pulled ant I Ji i i . i. ri 1, ^ flion Vioorri ai t lit ^ dragged before being completely cut through. There is then heard at tin moment the vein is cut through, a whizzing as on opening the air-tube -kit- (qluck-qluck gerausch,) and immediately after, shivering, swooning con ;c vulsions and death. The cause of the sudden death is the entrance of th. V air into the right side of the heart, by which its movements are suddenly stopped. The wounded vein must be directly pressed with the finger, ant according to Amussat, the chest and belly quickly and forcibly corupresseuS during expiration, and at every interval of such compression, the tingei.' applied to the opening of the vein, and then the vein tied or twisted < Others have recommended bloodletting by opening the .temporal artery'll sprinkling with cold water, applications of ammonia and camphor to tin nostrils, and pressure on the abdominal aorta and both axillary arteries- as well as drawing out the air which has entered the vein through a pip< with the mouth, or by means of a syringe and flexible catheter (M_ gendie.) In but few instances has the patient been recovered. It mu- not, however, be forgotten that many cases which have been ascribed the entrance of air into the veins, are very problematical, and that dea . must be attributed to other causes. Bichat ascribed death from the entrance of air into the veins, to jte effect upon '^ brain; Nistf.n and Magendie to the extension of the heart; and Piedagnel (. J emAMtssAT (tVattempted to restore several animals destroyed by the into the vlins; as already described. J. Warren (c) relates two cases, in the)fij which, the patient was restored by bleeding from the temporal arte th« brought the patient to himself by the application of ammonia and «mP"“ th( nostrils. Mercier (e), who attributes death from admission of inmave.^ ^ same cause which produces syncope, namely, the deficie PP y , j offered b) recommends, that the small quantity of blood wlneh-.n spite of the flf th( the admitted air to the transmission of the blood from the right to system heart and thence to the body-is, nevertheless transnutted .nto ^ *rt«rol }aoria should be directed towards the brain, and this by compression of the abciomi and of the two axillary arteries. • „ ^„rred after at rBransbv Cooper (/) relates a ease in which this alarming syncope we rr * re. amputation at the shoulder-joint, and whilst he was removing a sm^l gand constanl nnverincr the patient “uttered a continual whining cry, and mamtaine motion* of alternate flexion and extension of the right leg whilst fectly quiet.” This movement continued for about nine days and then * (n) Maoendii, Journal de Physiologie, vol. ix. P'(M Mfcml'de 1‘Acad. Roy. dc Mcdeclne, vol. v. r» S'7 PV7) American Journal of Medical Science. (rf) Scum i pt's Jahrbuclier. No. 9 , p. A1-. 18d- (,.) Revue Midicale, vol. ni. p. -.14. 183'. Amussat, Recherches sur Introduction acc.den- _ • 1039 —CoR' telle de l'Air dans les Ycine!'^^senceof Ah ieue «e i zvir «w»sence oi mack, F. C., Dissertation on .JXJ, ,h, 1SJ7 in the Organs of Cireulation. i*i d< dPm nd VON Wattmann. Sichores di \>nc*n schnell geftl.rliclies Lu(VtnUd‘ m,d ^ ,^4.,. (lessen gerichtMrr.tliclie wi<*Ugk ^ ^ p. 4). lessen Kcricht»ir7.tliclie v*icu“fc xxVii. p. ( f) Med.-Cliir. Transactions. 1814.DIVISION OF ORGANIZED PARTS. 857 2592. All kinds of operations, according to their nature, must be referred ft to the following principal acts, which, at the same time, must be considered as the elements of every operation, and of which every single act consists : They are, first, Division ; second, Apposition ; third, Dilatation. A.—OF THE DIVISION OF ORGANIZED PARTS. 2593. The division of the connexion of organized parts, is that one of the elementary acts of an operation most frequently brought into use, and in most operations constitutes their principal circumstance. 2594. The division of organic parts may be effected by mechanical or ! chemical means ; though the latter is less employed in reference to division than to other objects, on which account division by mechanical means will now alone be considered. 2595. The parts of our body may be divided— First, By a cut or incision. Second, By a stab or penetration. Third, By tearing asunder. Fourth, By tying or ligature. 2596. All instruments employed for the division of soft parts hi, cut- ting must be placed in two classes; to the former belong those which liave a single cutting edge, knives, bistouries, and scalpels ; to the latter lose consisting of two cutting edges, connected crosswise in their middle’ and germinating in handles ; such are scissors. di'stinouislied from each other, to wit, by the fixing o- J Zf V handlei and blJ the form of the blade itself J J it dm8' T/e ),ade lS! 6lthf attached firmly to the handle, as a scalpel, or it drop* into the scales of the handle and can be opened, as a bistoury. In bistouries the connexion of the blade is either such, that when opened mav be fixednfi f n Y’ ^ °nIy fnnot fal1 back> or the open blade meted?/* d T Z Th! mechamsni for this purpose consists either of a roetallic ring, which can be pushed up on the laid-back end of the blade ■ n a particular form of connecting stem and catch, through which it r: (pSy’s bbf Wl\Gn tHe bist°Ury is °Pened’ the b]ade is thrust up, blatter L ‘ l 0r .ln a sPnno) llke the common clasp-knife. The Bt atter kind of bistoury is the most convenient. hi i ^ be utdity of the bistoury depends specially on the form of it* ' t| “.f j.tbe langth and breadth are of less importance. The following are I !Se dt '°n. aCCPfdin«,10 f°™ :-«• Th'. straight bistourgft whfeh I (|lf, | ”, 'Tif11*11 t0. ;hf ,‘!P. whlch is formed by its narrowing from ifailTThe “7“ Ti-he dT,kds ':x ' ^andJ™TlCTZ7ht'edf’ed bi1mr!' “ "Msl -ove„S ta all , “nu witn it alone can a regular cut be made v / ““ /“» lh‘ from its beginning to Us end, ■ ^middle and leftXd 71ieuma<l1e‘n,thC foll»wing manner:—The ulnar edge of pressed firmly on it and^h/d ^V |6 where the cut >s to be made, he thumb ,■ ’ c le sun hghtened from above or below, and with thumb and forefinger stretched on either side. The bistoury held858 DIVISION OF ORGANIZED PARTS in the right hand with the thumb, middle, and ring-finger, and the fore- - <1 finger laid on its back, or held as a pen, has its point thrust directly.« down to the depth the cut is to be made, then the handle is sunk, and the whole edge is drawn with equal pressure over the parts to be cut through. When the cut has been made, the bistoury is again raised per- pendicular, and cuts through every thing which still remains undivided in the angle. This is the most common kind of cut. 2601. In many cases, where the skin is easily displaced, or an important part beneath may be injured, a fold of skin may be cautiously made, the- one end of which is given to an assistant, the other held by the operator, and the knife drawn across its middle. Sometimes the cut is made from: within outwards ; the bistoury is then thrust in to a certain depth, and its edge, drawn out to or from the operator, enlarges the opening. This kind. of°cut has no necessary cause for its employment. It is most commonly; made when the bistoury is introduced on a director. If the latter instru- ment be passed beneath the skin, or into a canal, it must be held with the left hand and in such direction that its end presses towards the skin, which i an assistant tightens on either side, whilst the straight bistoury is run along j the groove of the director, at an acute angle with it, up to its end, when I the bistoury is raised upright to divide every thing up to its tip. 2602. The convex bistoury is specially employed for making semicircular cuts, and for the removal of tumours, where a larger extent of blade can be made use of than with the straight-edged bistoury. The button-ended, bistoury is only used when parts are cut at a depth ; the bistoury may then be introduced on the finger of the left hand alone, or on a director to pre- vent the point doing mischief. 2603. The mode of holding the knife has an important influence on its use ; in this respect, four postures, or positions of the knife may be distin- guished. First. The knife is held like a pen, the handle being taken hold of with the thumb and middle finger near the blade, and the forefinger laid on its back. Herewith the knife can be used with ease, and employed in every direction ; it is specially suitable where small cuts are to be ma e with great care. Second. The knife is held with the thumb on one, and the middle and ring finger on the other side of its handle, and the ore- - - - - ■ • i-u: violm-bow, lntra. finger laid on the back of the blade. as in holding a The handle is placed upon the inside of the ball of the thumb, with the thumb on one side, and the middle, ring- and little finger on the otlie , whilst the forefinger is extended upon the back of the blade. our • The knife is grasped with the whole hand, the thumb on one an 1 fingers on the other side of the handle ; this is only applicable to arge. or amputating knives. . hv 2604. Scissors effect the the division of parts, like the bistoury, j drawing and pressure ; but the pressure is greater, and therefore the sci edge is°not generally so fine as that of the knife; neither are the . jth set directly opposite, but lie beside each other, so that ordinarily, a cu w scissors, is not so clean as that with a bistoury; the parts must a so> pressed and squeezed before they are divided. On this account the _ ^ scissors is by many entirely rejected. The objections, however, to of scissors may be done away with by the proper fineness of tl B and by the greater power with which they can be employed. ^ It has been hitherto supposed that the due degree of fineness, like that of a. 1 ■ cannot be given to scissors without impairing their strength. 1, no ■t'lBY VARIOUS INSTRUMENTS. 859 scissors made by onr clever instrument-maker, G chick, which have the perfect edge of a bistoury, and with proper strength. 2605. Scissors are specially employed to a certain extent for cutting off disorganized parts, for instance, in torn or bruised wounds, to remove the loose flesh in misshapen flaps ; in gangrene, to takeaway the half-separated sloughs and the like; in very luxuriant fungous growths of flesh ; but especially for cutting off very soft or yielding parts which have no sup- porting point, as in cutting the freenum linguce, cutting off excrescences from the mouth, refreshing the edges of harelip, for cutting out a portion of the thickened vaginal tissue in operating on hydrocele by incision, and the like. 2606. Scissors are distinguished according to their form. a. Straight Scissors, of which the blades are made pyramidal and run to a point; the point of one blade being pretty sharp, and that of the other somewhat rounded, jo. Scissors curved toivards the surface of their blades, (Cooper’s i scissors,) or the blades curved at a?i angle. These are used for removing growths with necks, luxuriant granulations and the like, or when they have to act in a cavity, y. Scissors curved towards their edge in an arch or at an angle. The use of the latter (kneed scissors, or Richter’s scis- sors) have the advantage of being used with more power, and their blades are not so very much drawn back, in cutting («). . ^07. In using scissors, the thumb and ring-finger are to be passed into the rings of their handles, and that handle held with the fore and middle finger, in the ring of which is the ring-finger. In this way more power is gained than if the middle instead of the ring-finger be put in one nng. The blades of the scissors having been opened, and passed several ' times between the fingers of the left hand, the parts to be divided are made tense, and then whilst the blades are brought together, the escape | ot the part from them must be prevented. 2608. As regards the division of soft narts bn stahhinn it , (a) Percy, Memoirs aur lea Ciseaux a incision. Paris, 1784.860 GENERAL SURGICAL OPERATIONS; 2610. The division of parts by tying or the ligature is a slow cutting in by its firm tying, in which the divided parts heal, proportionally as the ligature cuts deeper in. This method is always tedious, painful, and should be only employed where the neighbourhood of important parts render the use of the knife dangerous, for instance, in fistulous passages and tumours of various kinds. 3611. The division of a hone requires, on account of its hardness and firmness peculiar instruments. Such are performed, a. After the manner of a cut with the saw ; with the circular saw, the trepan ; with the chissel and hammer; with the bone-knife, and with the nippers. /3. After the manner of a stab with the perforating trepan ; and y. By scraping, either with the bonescraper or the exfoliation-trepan. B.—OP THE SEPARATION OF DIVIDED PARTS. 2612. This operative proceeding in many cases, although not the prin- cipal object, yet however is one of the principal acts of the proposed ope- ration. The division of parts happens in most operations, and the indica- tion is to bring them together again. In how many ways this may, and in certain cases should be done, has been already mentioned in considering the treatment of wounds in general. C.—OF THE DILATATION OF PARTS. 2613. The object of enlarging is either simply to obtain a free entrance into natural, unnarrowed openings, as for example enlarging the mouth, the vaqina and the like by dilators and specula; or it applies to the unnatural narrowings of natural passages, and is then effected by the introduction o tents, or elastic bougies, which are gradually selected of arger size; or by such substances, as by attracting fluid, increase m bulk, like spon tent, catgut, and the like. These remedies are also often employed, alter previous cutting, to prevent reunion. Second Section.—OF GENERAL SURGICAL OPERATIONS. I.—Of Bloodletting. (.Abstractio Sanguinis, Lat.; die Blutlassen, Germ.; la Saignle, Fr.) 2614. Bloodletting may be performed First, By opening a vein, 1 General Bloodletting ; or, Second, By opening an artery,) Third, By the application of leeches, lLocal Bloodletting. Fourth, By scarification or cupping. ( A.—OF OPENING VEINS. C Venesectio, Phlebotomia, Lat.; ErSffnung der Venen, Germ.; Ouverture dc a K Veine, Fr.) Gyer, N., The English Phlebotomy, or Method and Way of healing by Rloodletu Butler^It.j M.D., An Essay concerning Bloodletting, &c. Loudon, 1 -34. Svo. Wallbaum, Dissert.de Venesectione. Gdtting., 1-49.861 BLOODLETTING FROM THE VEINS. London, 1765. 4to. Dickson, Thomas, M.D., A Treatise on Bloodletting, &c. Bucking, Anleitung zum Aderlassen. Stendal, 1781. Wardrop, James, M.D., On Bloodletting; an account of the curative effects of the abstraction of blood, &c. London, 1825. 8vo. Hoppe, F., Die Eroffnungder Blutadern. Neisse und Leipzig, 1835. Abernethy, On the 111 Consequences sometimes succeeding to Venesection; in his Surgical Works, vol. li. p. 133. Edition of 1815. 2615. Opening a Vein (Breathing a Vein, in our old common language) may be performed in any of the superficial veins; but usually those°of the arm, of the hand, of the foot, and of the neck are preferred. 2616. At the bend of the elbow may be chosen the cephalic, basilic, median-basilic, median-cephalic, and the upper part of the radial and ulnar veins. In regard to the choice of one or other of these veins, it must be re- marked, that the cephalic vein is safest, as far as possible injury of neigh- bouring parts is concerned, but it is frequently of insufficient size to afford the quantity of blood required ; the median, median-basilic, have indeed . generally a large diameter and project more distinctly, but they lie in the neighbourhood of the brachial artery, sometimes immediately upon it and !"y seParated by the tandon of the m- and the aponeurosis of the arm. It is therefore always, but especially for beginners, best to choose the cephalic or median-cephalic, or the median and basilic near the inner condyle of the upper-armbone, and to avoid the part where the artery is wK S b,T>,h Tein' 1,1 Persons the veins^lSJh swollen, cannot be seen, but only felt. ° 26IT. In bloodletting from the arm the patient may either sit or lie be-t W ien’ the patient not being veiT weak or confined to muchblood blfn1S T t0 beTfeared’,°r fainting may be produced without much blood being drawn. Lying-down is best when the patient is weak an f faintmg, even when much blood is taken, is desirable to be avoided ( St;e fheS °Ut hlS arm moderatelL and the operator with his ■ orefinger carefully ascertains the situation of the brachial artery and of :, t:ein> at the bend 0f the A bandage about a yard a7d a half ■ ° a'r lncbes wWe, usually of red cloth, is now applied around the f ™’ 1 feW fi.nf breadth above the bend, its middle placed on the front ' ends carried behind the arm, where passing over each other Lv’ '•PS, and with its no intent :1 and puts by then> between his ;:t again with Hi l L f* cted to the opposite side, so that he may take »lS he has to bleed in the ri<dit o^leftTr 01 r-®ht ha“d’ according ■oint, so that hp pur ct i . ' arm op patient, upon the elboiv- ■1‘kZn^onV a dZI iY? I m 1,8 h“ °P*"> -tl. Iris thumb, ipied hunri 1„.’*..I ; tbf blood str°ked down a few times with the unoc- Mupied hunrl * i -u , KUI oown a lew times with t! 1 'av tint ’ 1 taker the ancet with the thumb and forefinger in such J at °"ly 30 mucl‘ of P°i"t should project as is safficfen, ?„r “heACCIDENTS OF BLOODLETTING. 862 depth of the opening. The middle, ring- and little finger of the hand hold- • ino- the lancet, are now placed upon the arm, and the thumb and forefinger brought to and so dropped on it, that when they are stretched out, the point of the lancet may penetrate obliquely into the vein, immediately on which the blood shows on the lancet-blade, and the fingers being raised, the opening in the vein is enlarged, and the spouting blood is to be caught by an assistant in a proper vessel. The operator now passes to the outer side of the arm, supports it, the one hand being applied to the tore- and the other to the upper-arm without altering its position ; or he allows the, patient to grasp the end of a stick resting on the ground. TThis mode of bloodletting is not the best that can be employed, and the management, of the lancet is both awkward and bad, and if, as is occasionaUy abso utely a vein running over an artery have to be opened, the pushing the point of the lancet obliquely into the vein is dangerous, as though the vein be wide, it may not have much thickness, and its coats both behind as well as before, together with whatever majr be behind may be pierced even by the most clever operator. The readiest and best me- thod is after selecting the vein? to grasp the fore-arm just below the elbow, with one hand the thumb of which is to be placed firmly upon the vein, just below where it is which is often the consequence of opening the vein, as recommended by Cmmius, very commonly practised, is prevented. J. r.o.J _ , , . 2619 When the proper quantity of blood has been obtained, the no of the banlge is Jbe untied, the^und aod it, neighboured-^ with a moist sponge, the wound covered with the thumb. of one whilst with the other, a little compress is slipped from the side of > over the wound, which it presses on the removal of the thumb *° press is then steadied by putting the thumb upon it, and “fore- arm, fixed with a bandage, which is to be carried round the elbow insev ral fkmre of S turns. The arm is to be kept quiet. _ 2620. The particular accidents which may occur during tie °P ^ are, a. A faulty stab, in which case the operation must be 1 fi. The formation of a too small opening ; the wound must then b ^ larged, 'or another place chosen, y. Stoppage of the f / ition*; displacement of the skin when the arm is moiec m o nl0re the1 arm must then be restored to its proper place, and be bent, the blood stroked upwards, and the hand moved, the bandage being tied too tight, which must then be sjackened, aperture being stopped up• by a littto lump ° > 0^blood in the when the patient must ue ini-- .M,nd- < air? sprinkling with cold water, and the like 3. arterial i ina J nerve. «. Wounding an artery, which may be known blood spouting out together with tlie venous by ar enal b checked by to How after the removal of the bandage, and by it not D S consists i ^res-re below, but above the wound. The ^ment jn^s cpc ^ of pressure and binding up the arm fthe aponeurotic expan- \ 4'. Wound of a lymphatic vessel, of a tendon, oi J 1BLOODLETTING IN THE FOOT; IN THE NECK. 863 sion, which is only rendered apparent by symptoms which come on after- wards. 2621. The bandage must remain if it do not slip, or no particular symptoms ensue after the operation till the third or fourth day. The acci- dents which may occur after the operation, are, «. Bleeding, if the band- age slip ; it must be replaced, ft. Inflammation and suppuration, in consequence of inflammation of the aponeurosis, of too tight bandaging of movement of the arm, or of the state of constitution. Perfect q°uie't’ nmdHpp baniafe’ aPPllcation of compresses soaked in lead wash, soothing poult.ces, and if collections of pus be formed, opening them become neces°- •a'}, 7/ flfiammatwn of the veins or lymphatic vessels, which, accord- n to its degree, requires a more or less active antiphlogistic general or local treatment. Abernethy has, in inflammation of veins, advised the ^l Wtir reSSU:rtab0V'e the VV°und’ in orderto effect the union of the walls of the vein, and to prevent the spread of the inflammation. S Se- tZ P?m’ 7e1COnvuIsions in consequence of partial division of twigs of the external subcutaneous nerve, when the median-cephalic vein has been i Ztened iTT' SB^taneo“ when tlfe median" asOic has above the wound in t^Se’ AbE™hy advises complete division a little nrl .."°und .ln the vem, which is, however, rarely followed and P p r antiphlogistic and antispasmodic treatment may before fitting certainty S danger^ Ihe^stSSv'£* * flapper, because on account of its un- the fleam be broken off - it cannot bJrnmto? deeP’ t0° shalI°w, or inefficient, and be very dangerous in unpractised hands P * ** 6 USe °f the Iancet’ bllt ma7 also sSSjnS'Kr'' ===5.b.sjf» 18 &£ s™,lar >° ‘'-at for bloodletting in thlarm. VeSSe'- rl,e llressl'« I in iistanT Sta'g J“blhtd The paffenfw/" T^'T “ »“ ««*■ Itool, holds the head with one hand !nd X !JtS 7 In bed or “P°n a Ifesses the external juguiar vein lilst the tl,Umb of thp other *!!l8 left thumb at the part where the oniLin^YrT01’ C°mpresses k with * eitl may also be compressed „„ T? P In& 18 be made. The jugular I Aslant; in doino- this a compress r^PP°1lte Sld? wkhout the aid of an •' "it fastened with a }®^,C P 8 .ls, placed uPon lt above the collar-bone nupit of the ither side Th?" “TT the <*<* and boot frotnThe J elow upwards and fmm -h • vein 1S to be opened with a lancet from j?y the neighbouring fibres^f tUm'VS° that i4 may n0t be covered ! lay be allowed to flow alone- a mi uj .m^otdes! and tIie blood essel- When the dressing0 is Sfed pi6Ce °f pasteboard into a g • applied, the compress must be removed,864 OPENING ARTERIES.—APPLICATION OF LEECHES. the edges of the wound pressed together, sticking plaster and a compress put over it, and fastened with a bandage. B—OF OPENING ARTERIES. (.Arteriotomia, Lat.; Scldagader-Oeffnuug, Germ.; Ouverture de l Artere, Fr.) 2625. Opening an artery is only performed on the temporal; it is recommended in severe inflammation of important organs, as the brain, the eye, and the like, so as quickly to evacuate a large quantity of blood. This operation is best performed in the following way: the pulse of the temporal artery, or one of its branches, is sought for in the temporal reo-ion : the place is to be marked with a black streak, the skin raised up a fold and cut through. The artery is then easily found and opened in a rather oblique direction with a lancet. The proper quantity of bloo having escaped, the artery is to be cut through, taken up with the forceps and tied, and the skin closed with sticking plaster. This method is more certain than opening the temporal artery at a stroke with the lancet, and stanching the bleeding by pressure. _ f Opening the temporal artery is oftentimes far less easy than mightbeexpecte.an inattention to its subsequent division frequently causes very senous and sometimes fatal, results The facility with which it is found depends pretty much upon the p , which it is opened ^ If this he done just before and above the tragus, it is managed easily on account of the size of the vessel; but if higher, after its d^‘S'on into tempi - frontal, and temporo-occipital, it is more difficult; the part of the vessel commonly chosen, as it runs along t le g rtifficnlt is it ishes quickly in its course, so that the higher it is operated on, the more^fficrdt^d to be found.^ If it be expected that a single bloodletting from one or both t P. arteries will alone be required, then the artery may be °Pj^. ^at more __ a little nhnve the root of the zygomatic process. Rut it it is iikuj t imrnmmm that a tenaculum should be passed across and bet ndl £ so more compression, or by and pSts have been destroyed by after-bleedingyar.ng^ on lt^CpTcation ol —; sa t=&•£ ssi hsi- iSisi —- - vessel occurs after artenotomy.—J. F. S.J C.-OF THE APPLICATION OF LEECHES. 2696 In applying leeches, they may be held with a piece of linen roun^ their hind part^ so that the head, which is always their thmnest par t m le directed Ihe spot upon which they are to be«x«L J1 always he carefully cleaned. Some persons apply ' ,jils, it fa pasteboard rolled up, or ... a glass cylinder 'VIki, t epar most convenient to put the requisite number of leeches glass, and turn it down. . , - tlie horse leech | ^oSl.'ie-cotoureat strip* — \OF THE APPLICATION OF LEECHES. SL5 from the head along the hack and sides to the tail The baek and «idoc r,f n SftT-f. b'r*‘ish'br°» »r W.ckish-gr„ colour, wiflSZ/nSrSnl ZtZ «sga?te^ i§mmmmrnm 2627. If the leeches will not bite, the part on which thev are to he &ssa“=-si'i"= ^iz'Kc” ,tsert *t,rw"fd t r; f,e ttk“ ,ta ^ ■>» »»* ■»*> ^•ater should be swallowed, and an emetic taken a qu“t1lt-y °f Salt and bonrhood of the amts, that should be stopped up with VwaJof Hnt^ ^ neigh' Hf« “f * ^ » b>»»nel '»«» zn'/fi A i i 9R0Q AO. , w oao part desired. J I-ept up for sle LehtTnotin^T^ °ff’ bleedin& may generally be ■ o ston it tt Jo , by sponging with warm water; but if it be wished leSd lii8. may be d0ne by bathi“« -•'> «■><• water a,.d ap^g ijtijTa IflittendCh!1?ren,Tae bleedi“« is ™J -ere, to'tanching the blood are ,tr" 1 to‘ The means here advised for Ram tragacanth, the introduction^ ° W!?.h Styptlc Povvders, with found, holding’the sk"?in a fold and ,7 P°-10" °f, lint little fi? a proper instrument, cauterization o/tTe^ 1 tog?tber vvittl t,ie fingers §he introduction of a comZ^Xurf Part W1fh a red'hot needle, I? the bottom of the wound, and outfit the^tl" °n-Vlde through the skin f he wound and the needle the ends rT f.’ Slde some distance from I; have twine twisted round soasto "“T"1 with is then fc Iennemann (d) has invnni i ‘ '? compress the wound firmly fc") »*- lo.JnHZ <>f foroePs to fought together, with a fine needicu l ' ,Cla ,y tlh® edSes of tlie wound si(<A k > 6 necdle and tlu-ead, and after removing the I sane a«2‘l«?5i5ebef die Function tier Lang. ' p. 2ti2 —SnBv,™*'“unttAiugenheilkunde, tilling von S* "’ Historischpraktiiohe S von medicinischen i - l utigeTrfn in 1„S Vermischte Schrifte, vol. VOL. II. (0 V0N GK—^ VO, WM-THK^Jo^ll: VMO^XV.np.Vll9: maJ," 'l835°TTO’ °er M°dicinische Blutigel. Wei- p.tsoDUbUn Jo"r,,ftl of Medical Science, vol. iii. (c) Whete; in VON Graefe und von Wal- ther's Journal, vol. 1. p. 185 L !nlV?^xvi- «»■ P-375. 3 K866 ON THE APPLICATION OF LEECHES. needle, ties the thread in a simple knot. If no after-bleeding ensue, theJ thread in a few days drops off oi itself. [The employment of leeches in the treatment of inflammation is so (»mmonly un-, attended with inconvenience, that it would seem scarcely worth while to refer to the.I subiect But frequently the bleeding from the wounds caused by them is very con-j siderable and very difficult to stop ; sometimes threatening danger from the quantity o,, blood loi and occasionally destroying iho patient It is, little consideration. Dangerous bleedings from leeches occu' inyj"1®.“ “ young children. Of the former kind, are, the case of a stout countiy lad who» died u. La Charite, of bleeding from a single leech bite on the belly in related by Brichetau (a); that of an old woman in La days retiree- to whose belly leeches had been applied; she went on well for three days, retiree to rest at night apparently well, hut on the following morning was fouiid dead in heii bed in a pool of blood. My friend Green, some years since, had a man in St. Thomas s. who died of bleeding from the temporal artery, whichi had.beeri bitten by a^ee°h- ^ | the latter kind, the case of a child of nine months, who died in a mgh. after a bite is recorded (c). No such fatal cases have come under my own care, but 1 I frequen ly seen the bleeding continued for several days, so as to render the patient pa as ashes an dWeakened as under severe loss of blood under any circumstances. Th cause dof the “dings is either from an artery being wounded by the bite as nj Green’s case certainly, and probably also in Bmchetau s and in i . L from leech-bite on the temple, mentioned by Oliver [d) , or fro P - aud l °r The treatment recommended for these cases is very various, and must necessarily w} cannot be continuous. If a vessel, as tor instance me temporal ^ is best at once treated by division between the and ^eu^a’lwaysPanswer i in arteriotomy. This plan will succeed if do y, _ ■ Qr tj,e vesse j if put off till the formation of spurious aneurysm ^in Gbke [ d a piec. 1 may he found and tied. Or it may be compressedfimybetweentneD confnlCV, of cork bound tightly on, on ^ yiSg part, Lowes cases of the wound ol such vessel. wound together with a fine needU j hardt’s (e) method of drawing ie1 e g cting a couplf of needles at right angle and thread may be employed. But 1 pi , ,1 e bottom of the wound, am > to each other, at a little distance from the aratore below the ^ is „ out at the opposite side; arou^ w l'oh, in ■ Qr ^ days the thread and pm be carried once or twice and tied tightly. ctonned Oliver has reconi | may be removed, and the bleeding has genera y - PP • d partieu mended, from his own experience, the appbcatmn of ofPartena larly mentions a case which was cured by • ’ j art(?ry was wounded blood was lost from the temple (</)■ and pcrliaps the temp ; * which done Kidalpo (A) of Leghorn recommends the appl«»£»should be left « he says, a coagulum forms immediately, anil lit auv • | employment 0 for a few minutes. On the other hand, Sir J-Murrav J*) adv.ses^em^. ^ h>( (g ‘WPA.1833' Ton n o';' quo ted in & * (n) Gazette des HApltaux, vol. vii. p. 3fi. 1833. 6 Revue Medicate. 1827 vol iv. p. 149. 0 Lancet, 1829-0, vol. 11. P>■<**. Id) Ibid., 1834-0, vol. I.p-d04. (e) Above cited ; quoted in Lancet, 18-8 9, vol. "■(/)"Uncet, 1833-4, vol. ii. JP-208. (g) Ibid., Ls34-3.vol. 1. P- -'Ob Torino; quoted in ^a"cel’‘“Tinfluence on (0 On the local and y,mo*pl>^ Body of increased and ^'"p 916. Pressure; in I-aneet, 1834-0, vol. LP- ( 0 lancet, 18-T-30, vol. n.P-»-‘- III) Annals of Pharmncv. 1*30. (/) Medical Gazette, vol. vi. p. ->OF SCARIFICATION.—OF CUPPING. 867 is very rapid and efficacious in stanching bleedin°- leech-bites rw „*i „ seems that the actual fire has some necuHa-Tffe f almost, ^universally successful, for it other escharotics have I caTo^SaTn W°UDded V6SfIs more thau observation, I know that a red hot ;r.nnP .,That consists, but from repeated D.-OF SCARIFICATION. „ (Scarificatio, Lat.; Scarificiren, Germ.; Scarification, Fr.) ZbcSO. Scarification consists of more or less deen r.,t« „ i taou'y i„ anyone par,, whereby i, is empS of tL SSdTconMnf f, cannot well’be a'ppliT'M forTnsf ““““fl™ of tl.10se parts where leeches {Turns of the i P-V d’ as foi instance, inflammation of the toim-ue of the kf. under cerLTeircuLLt “ST °f P™ scarifications of the droDsioal .welling c°’ and 111 callous ulcers, superficially and never then if thpre .^ ° a Part !nust be made quite lamination, or a great degree of ZhJ^accompanying erysipelatous in- flows. ^ g exhaustion, because gangrene generally E.-OF CUPPING. 263 7 CWUrUta™ CUm indsi0ne> LatO Schropfien, Germ.; Fe„t0MeS) Fr ) fa- WS%St3 thef"is »“* bistoury, congestion of blood is promoted in it bv tl 0r pT9 glmS‘ a"d *<“ * |p?inra™7up^„7^ ^Md" "*? Wilh » «PO»ge Iroperly expand the contained air, Ind thenL alu ^ lamP to t' everly applied to the spot chosen AfterT ? qm.ckIy M possible, and **tLS been properly drawn up into the „ * faw minutft8> when the skin ioved, whilst the forefinger is slipnedTnlF ^f88’,the S'13-88 must be re- *} e scarificator is now pkfS, afteP&“d” , Upon this par, |e *Pnng, and then pressing upon if the l? f 6ts and drawn up feet or bistoury may be used Ef S? CtS wound t»>e skin. A b leas deep cuts are made upon the part'chn^^r^’ Wltl‘ wbicb more •^charging the blood, a cuppfno- glasses to he ' • *°r ,the PurPose of j eady mentioned; and when neariv f. 11 / aga'n aPPhed 1,1 the way ***** and the glass put on aS Tl T‘ be reraoved’ the part ' Action with the scarificator. When no 1 °UJ i™*?£e repeated in any t: leaned and covered with a firnVlompreS *’ the part nui8t 3 k 2868 OF CUPPING. Dr,, cupping consists simply in the application of cupping glasses without scarifies 4, tion and is for the purpose of drawing the blood to any one part. . II Tas occasionally scarificators and cupping glasses are not at hand, the following sal & stitutes which I recollect having heard a friend in the military service mention, may t jat- employed Some short incisions near each other are to be made through the skin, an . over them is to be whelmed a tumbler, wineglass or teacup, the air in which is to t j exhausted or rarified by burning within a piece of paper. Instead of a scarificator, Dr. Osborne (a) proposes his polytome, which consists i several lancets with circular edges fixed parallel m a frame, with a handle. It is draw ■ • oir.no- tVie skin so as to make incisions an inch m length, and one-sixteenth c one-eighth of an inch deep. He supposes a better flow of blood will be procured by thbj ^ riZhm ?someytimlSattended°with danger and even loss of life, either from wounc ii anPartery or from inability of the blood to coagulate. Of the latter kind it hi rsza ?: are sM ot styptics ana natient did well. In another case, in which a gi. Swtch i“3 slop, even ,he .ctu.l canter,-, and .he pahen, bled '-II death.—J. F. S.] L 2633 In regard to the preference of leeches, or capping for local Moot I lettino- ’it may be observed, that in general the former are more conv. I nient as they can be applied on every part, and their effect is not attendt "T,h “ much irritation as from cupping. But the utter c.rcumsMcj o-ives an undeniable preference to cupping over leeching in many casd of chronic, deep-seated, especially rheumatic or arthritic inflammation .. not merely is the bloodletting, but also powerful derivation to the An effected, as for example in sciatica, lumbago, and many affections of tlfl joints and the like (1). SI'S IMS &*£ f. g pS™ » £ K iSSSSSS&A - rr more ^rfeannot agree with Chelius in his preference of leeches over cup^g, asw^1 1 irritatioiC for . SI o Bourof.ry, Traite com.VH' f„e Oper*10' S lUlomrae,compren»ntl»Mede“n j f(t6 , ■ yj, Frobisp s Cnirurg. r . ■ to* Observations on Local Bloodletting ; in Dublin Journal of Medical Science, vol. m. P.3d4. 1333. (/,) Bdellometre. Paris, 1318 Svo. (cl de 1 vol. vi. pi cccxcvii.OF PUTTING IN ISSUES. 869 with a sponge, it may be for hours together, render their employment far from desirable, excepting on parts where cupping cannot be performed on account of disfigurement as’ on the face, or where the parts are too yielding, so that a cupping glass would be almost filled by them, as on the belly, or where important vessels and nerves are in the imme- diate neighbourhood, as in the neck and the like, or where there is merely a small in- flamed lump, upon which a cupping glass cannot be conveniently applied. With these exceptions cupping is infinitely preferable to leeches, and more especially as a deter- minate quantity of blood can be obtained with little additional pain for a short time the whole operation being generally completed in half an hour or less without fatigue to the patient. So far as I have noticed, the after-irritation of cupping is very far fess frequent than that from leeching, and therefore from all these circumstances I should always recommend cupping rather than leeches, where it can be employed.—J. F. S.] II.—OF PUTTING IN ISSUES. (Fonticulus, Lat.; Fontanelle, Germ.; Fonticule, Fr.) 2634. By the term Issue is meant an artificially produced, and conti- nually suppurating wound, which is made either with the knife, with bhster plaster, with the actual cautery, or with caustic. The latter two will be specially considered afterwards. The place for the issue is determined by that of the disease which calls for it, though generally a part is chosen where much cellular tissue is beneath the skin, usually between two muscles, on the arm between the m biceps and the rn. deltoides, on the thigh between the m. vastus internus and m. gracilis, on the calf between the m. gastrocnemius and m. soleus on the breast between two ribs and so on. Large vessels and nerves must oe avoided. 2635. When using a bistoury, a small fold of skin must be nipped up and aut through lengthways, and the wound stuffed with a little wad of lint and covered with sticking plaster. On the second or third day the dress- ng should be taken off, the wound cleaned, and one or more peas put into l. \ )‘ . sQuare piece of sticking plaster and a compress are put on and fastened with a bandage. The issue must be dressed daily, once or twice according to the degree of suppuration, and always properly cleansed. ’ mhi! tlhe bT‘ aDd C!eaMst for issues are littlc> solid, glass beads, which soon mbed themselves, and not swelling like peas, excite little irritation, and may be worn J R T] 7 g °Ut WaSh5ng 6Very day’ and returning them to their *‘ 2636. If on account of the patient’s dread of the knife, a blister be em- rioyed, a round piece about half an inch in diameter, must be applied and ept on till vesication take place, when it is to betaken off and thecutfcle |> oved. One pea is then to be put upon the exposed part fixed with fcSSS 1 Tier T1 With a,bandaSe’ 80 that the pea may sink into I 2fiq7 • J after‘treatraen.t18 ^e same as in the former case. |e b37; Tf the, 188ue ca,ls? V10le"t pain, the pea must be removed, or if ■ • thero h!V6ra numb.er must be diminished ; this must also be done , ot m,Ich lr>flammation, and lead wash applied over. If there be at proper suppuration, the pea must be smeared with digestive solvl tl ! i"Vrhed With h,,nar cn“slic ”"d **• like. If the s^pulwiotbe z • eat) the pea must be removed. If fungous flesh grow up around the I irs ’'I'1 °f bl-t°uUClhin-g With caustic or c,lt °Pff with scis- ^ he issue m,sPt n fT i!11 W !T ‘ ,the1ISSUe is’ h must he moved elsewhere. l rmI S e must not he allowed to heal too quickly * zsrer the i,ame °f the ^ ^ in its[ 870 ] III.—OF INTRODUCING A SETON. (Setaceum, Lat.; Eiterband, Haarseil, Germ.; Sdton, Fr.) 2638. The Seton consists of a strip of linen unravelled at each edgefl or of a strand of several cotton, silk or hempen threads, which are drawr | i _ .. 1 dionhnrrrQ QnH **■ or oi a stranu oi seveicii cuuun, ~—7 into the skin or into any tumour, to keep up a continual discharge, and im certain degree of inflammation, for the purpose of diminishing any tumou. m by continued suppuration, and to keep up the passage through any canakj The introduction of a seton is managed in different ways. ■ 2639. If the seton be passed through the skill, a fold of skin must b<* lifted up vertically in the neck, with the finger and thumb of the left hand f and pierced at its base with the seton-needle, m the eye of which is thd| strand of threads or strip of linen, and as the needle is drawn out, the* follow it. If there be not any seton-needle at hand, the raised fold of skii j must be pierced with a double-edged bistoury, and an eyed probe armew with the seton-threads carried through the opening thus made. Both open- ino-s are to be covered with a wad of lint, which is fastened with sticking! plaster, and the loose ends of the seton put into a compress, and retainer with a proper bandage. [Of late an Indian rubber tape, about three-eighths of an inch widftimdi has1 been used instead of threads or linen, for a seton. It is much better than tV>P latter as it does not set loaded with matter and become offensive. It is easi} passed, after thrusting a double-edged bistoury through the skin, through the opening thus made.—J. F. S.] 2640. Passing a seton into a cavity containing fluid, for instance, am abscess is to be managed as already directed {par. 57) ; or a somewhat curved silver canula is°used, with a stilette, of which the front end has trocar point, and its hinder end an eye, through which the strandgMj threads^ threaded. The swelling is to be pressed, so that it may be made sufficiently prominent, and the canula well oiled, with its point projec^bi* m^betost through its lower part into the cavityaf4. ■ the point of the stilette drawn back, and the end of the tube carr the upper part of the cavity pressed against the skin, and then thestil thrust through. The tube is now drawn out at the lower the stilet the upper wound and the threads introduced into the cavity. 2641 If the seton be passed into a swelling which does not contain fl » either 1„ needle or a stillette with a trocar point to » used and carried in such direction, and so deep ) g considerable tumour as not to run any risk of danger from wounding . j "led? After the seton has been introduced it may be left alone for some days till suppuration lie set up in its track ; then, after removmg th dressings and washing off the crusts at the wounds with £3 a fresh portion of the seton may be drawn through, the part alrea ^ cut off some distance from the wound, and the dressing renew — way the ae.cn is to be managed daily, once or .« a day ‘^ the decree of suppuration and the object purposed. 1 into remedies may be smeared upon the ajton rtrrnci an.i mth ' * a ne the canal of the wound ; and when> ^ -band ]f the set0„ strand I I It tne canai ui uib — . tp the seton one may be attached to amt drawn throng, ruth ,n K lhi„. thickening, more threads are to be added to it, requireOF THE APPLICATION OF BLISTER-PLASTER. 871 ning, some must be taken from it; the strand or linen band must be gradually thinned, and when it is drawn out, moderate pressure applied. I If there be bleeding in passing the seton-needle, it must be stopped with cold water or pressure. Severe inflammation requires the seton to be smeared with fresh oil, or simple cerate and soothing applications. If the suppuration be profuse, strengthening remedies are to be employed both externally and internally. ’ IV- OF THE APPLICATION OF BLISTER-PLASTER AND MEZEREON BARK. (l esicatio, Lat.; der Setzen der Blasen-pflaster, und der Seidelbastrinde, Germ • le Vesicatoire, et le Garou, Fr.) 2643. The effect of Blister-plaster is more or less severe irritation of S7ap/ ?i°r 7 I?n-e’’ °r s7horter *1™- For this purpose Spanish j ly Blaster (Emplastrum Cantliaridis') is used, spread on linen or leather applied to the part required, and bound on with strips of sticking plaster’ a compress, and bandage, but not too tightly, or severe pain will be pro- duced and the formation of a blister prevented. The time a blister should remain on varies according to the object of its application, the constitution and age of the patient. [The most cleanly, and as efficient a way of producing- a blister with , „i, , • he use of a fold or two of lint, sopped JecetL cSridt ^ applied to'S Jan for a few hours ; or on irritable or thin skin, it will be merely rennisitV7n « J? , , pa,'1 w.th a camel’s-hair brush to the extent required. ReJImier^and TroL^ Jhl "f7 the same purpose, applied lint dipped in aVong soSof ammoffia - P?s,ible, other sealds. and will require at least some little caution in then- use ’ PrmuWa'T ??d a piece of lint, cloth, or paper, of the necessary size iust nreviouslv dfn. J ■? of wine, and passing a match rapidly over it, at once te 'tThVh Jit F' c1U ^ and then the skin may be rem'ovedj leaving thTc” S pe feaSf’andXS Wn'^SS IFShs°;ld th,Et drJ“ss ™ * l»l»»ble PLl Iha, a sltgTlmd Boiling water has also been poured in a thin saucer upon the nan tr. ho hi; , ,i 1‘iistered StfsfcSf*** w” the «*■■*«. some of ,1,0 ; - - Phils’, the B^oided, bv merely lnvimr o 1 lrntation, andean be very easily f ‘voided, by merely a» P"n ^ irritation- and cau be very easiiv <J die plaster and the skin, and if the pi aster "Jo ,pape,rf,or anf ot.ller thin paper between } the paper as if it we J ^ “ -adily • ‘£2*?Pt °Ur8’ W,’ich «“ ’ght hours. But wbh oh; 1,1 • ...m ™ost persons will take place in six or But with children even this will not do; SS?Kshott.d'beTemoS 1 as (o) Bulletin de Therapeulique, vol. ii. p. 17G.872 OF THE APPLICATION OF MEZEREON BARK. soon as it has caused bright redness of the skin, -which generally happens in tw or three hours; it should then be removed and left alone for a little while, as the blisterj id - very soon after rises, if it have not already. The younger the child is, the more necee | gn sary it is to attend to this point, or sloughing will ensue, and death has been known t follow in consequence. . i Indeed with children, I am by no means sure that, in most cases, a mustard poultic ' is not preferable to the application of a blister. It should be made with mustard am : warm water, (some recommend vinegar,) rather thinner than if for the table, as if mad Id stiff it is much less active. It should then be spread about a quarter of an inch thicl j I on fine muslin, and another layer of muslin being put upon it, applied to the part, am kept on ten, fifteen, or twenty minutes, according to the redness and pain. In som q<j| persons it will even blister. When removed, the skin should be carefully sporigei («v clean with warm water, otherwise the irritation, which is very great, will continue. H In the few persons whose skin is blistered with difficulty, it is best to apply previously tlj a mustard poultice till the skin becomes reddened and painful.—J. F. S.] 2644. When the blister has risen, the plaster must be carefully removed :-|i the blister opened with scissors, the water emptied, and the part dresseoW with simple cerate, fresh butter, or any other mild ointment. If requisite,*/ to keep up the suppuration for a time, it must be dressed with wig. resvru&^k or some digestive ointment to which cantharides has been added, or wit! !■ ung. scibincB, which is best of all. [I must confess I am no advocate for open blisters, the only special result of whicl tar appears to me that of putting the patient to unnecessary pain. All that is desirable, t< w wit, derivation, is much more effectually done by a succession of small blisters, abou ifl the size of a half-crown piece, around the part affected, which may be repeated ad infill' ■ turn, with scarcely any inconvenience to the patient. They are called flying blisters.— 4 J. F. S.] 2645. When a blister is applied to a part not very sensitive, its opera-® tion may be promoted by rubbing it with a hot flannel or with vinegar. If the inflammation be very violent, it must be soothed with somt| softening and cooling remedy. If the cantharides be absorbed, it will i produce strangury, for the relief of which, mucilaginous drinks and emul- : sions with camphor, may be given. Swellings of the neighbouring glandSjj which sometimes arise, may be relieved by the application of sootlungi ointments and poultices, and by the removal of all irritation. y 2646. For the employment of Mezereon bark (Seidclbast, Germ.) «l piece of the bark an inch and a half long, and the same wide, should Del soaked eight or ten hours in vinegar or water, after which, it is to Dei applied with its smooth surface next to the skin, generally upon the arm* at the insertion of the m. deltoides, and covered with a piece of oiled si compress, and roller, to keep it close. After ten or twelve hours, w^ena the bandage is removed, if the skin be sufficiently inflamed, a piece o oi j silk is to be applied on the inflamed part and fastened with ccmipre^® ^ bandage; but if the first application have not been effective, a >eC° piece of the bark must be applied. About the second or third day a 1 piece of bark is put on, the skin rises, and a serous fluid exudes. part must be cleansed daily with warm water or milk ; and if the 1,1 mation be very great, it must be rubbed with warm milk and bouii ^ with some mild ointment. The pustules around the irritated pa general yield to cleanliness and repeated washing with warm water. jg ( [2646.* Another very excellent and very gentle mode ol nns nlbbed $ with croton oil, ten or a dozen drops of which should be gent} tw0 - over the surface with the finger, protected in a piece of oiled si ’nied or three following nights. Usually a slight stinging is felt, acc j with puffiness of the part on the second or third day, and tins i.OF VACCINATION. 873 by a crop of small vesicles, which speedily maturate, in a day or two after dry up, and fresh cuticle is formed. It is one of the best modes of blister- ing, if not required to be speedy.—J. F. S.] V.-OF VACCINATION, OR INOCULATION WITH COW-POCK. ( Vaccmatio, Lat.; Eimmpfung der Kuhpocken, Germ.; Vaccination, Fr.) Jenner, Edward, M.D., An Inquiry into the Causes and Effects of the Vaccinse, a Disease discovered in some of the Western Counties of 6 ,VaT °,E Gloucestershire, and known by the name of Cow pox 4to.BID , Fui ther °bservations on the Variolas Vaccinse, or Cow-pox. London, 1799. Jw-po’x A SnSoTfsTo^ IT and °bservati0ns relative t0 the Vario1* Vaccinas, or s8r °f v«l*. I801REASER, TH0MAS’ M-D-’ Evidences of the Utility of Vaccine Inoculation. Bath, Gregory, George, M.D., Lectures on the Eruptive Fevers. London, 1843. 8vo. T6?7' V?cchlati0n C°"fists,.in the ^sertion of cow-pox matter under e skin, whereby a peculiar diseased process is set up, which destroys nr 2nishes thf SUSC<iptibi,ity t0 the contagion of small-pox. The vacci nation is performed either with fresh cow-pox matter convok e llS^OtherTod61'’ 7 WUh d? ma“er "'hioh has’ bee,, pSvi/"™ k A ;^“b,e’and the fo™” Cow-pox matter comes originally from the pustules on the tent* nf „„ countr.es (1). The matter to he used, must be obtained from an f ™?s 1(1) The earliest notice I have ever seen,” savs Grfporv «ef 1 ' ,°™d in a weekly paper published at Gottingen, in 1769 where weW*m’S t0 be 1 complaint was not uncommon in the neighbourhood of that town Tim hat such 2l 11 from the cows flattered themselves they^were secuj from th T? who I ''^all-pox. A notion of the same kind had Ion- prevailed ?n Pin ,thel1.nfect'°o of > fairy country, and had often been forced on the® atten\?Loucestershire, a great fc^dut no one thought seriously of this rural tradition r 1 ^ Provincial surgeons, g enera1 3 benefit of mankind, until Jenner arose (n 184) h wo? °f ap?!yi“S U t0 the That Jenner began to experiment with cow-pox although h^ ?0t,uatl1 the year 1796 I -Ti.Ur,lng about it for at least thirty years The gh h -had been talking and I IthMty, 1796, on a boy, eight years of aire 181ve/experiment was made on the i year’ and found ^be unsusceptible ’’TrT sraall'P°x °n the Wished his paper, An I'nquiri/ into the Causes and Tirt V')n HV Ja'\e’ 1798’ Jenner 1 it redounds to the honour of St Thomas’s Ilomifnl * aIlolce Vacci»<e, frc. ; I facers were the first persons in England to nut iS? , JS Greoory’ “ that its '! '-ink vaccinated a boy here in the list „!„[ F t' Jenner s discovery to the test. Mr. f sen kept three months in a quill The bov had' * 7<',|8l’W'tb lymph» which had - J convert the vaccine pock into apea issue7ir.s,t *7** h'P’ and Mr' Cl,NE Prosing i l'r. Lister, formerly physician of the Qm- in*'dITthe .matter on the outside of the hip atched the progress of die ease Ttabov ^ox.HosP,ltal-CaRd also of St. Thomas’s!) arcls> with smai 1-pox in three nh.e,.* f l ;l ,s- ',n<><iulated> almost immediately after- 1 the fourth day. The experiment th^r f'e s lgbt int,ammation that arose subsided 3 experiment, therefore, was perfectly successful.” (p. 187.)OF VACCINATION. 874 (2) According to Gregory, “vaccine virus may be preserved fluid and effective for two or three days in small bottles with projecting ground stoppers, fitted to retain the matter. It may be preserved for a like time in small capillary tubes, having a central bulb. This is the mode used in France for the transmission of vaceine lymph to the provinces, and which proves very effectual; but if you attempt in this manner to transmit lymph to the East or West Indies, you will fail utterly. Ivory points, when well armed and carefully dried, are very effective. They will retain their activity in this climate for many months, and they are found to be the most certain mode of sending lymph to our colonies. Some practitioners prefer glasses to points, but they are less certain. The employment of scabs for the propagation of cow-pox was first recommended by Mr. Bryce, of Edinburgh, in 1802. It is a very excellent mode of transmitting vac- cine matter to distant countries, but some nicety is required in operating with scabs, which experience alone cau teach.” (pp. 198, 99.) . . As regards the period at which lymph should be taken for vaccination, Gregory sayS •_« The younger the lymph is, the greater is its intensity. The lymph of a fifth-day vesicle, when it can be obtained, never fails. It is, however, equally powerful up to he eighth day, at which time it is also most abundant. After the formation of areola, the true specific matter of cow-pox becomes mixed with variable proportions of serum he result of common inflammation, and diluted lymph is always less efficacious than the concentrated virus. After the tenth day the lymph becomes mucdagnu.™ fluid in which state it is not at all to be depended on. Infantile Ijmpni more to be depended on than the lymph obtained from adults The ^ vaccinations is more energetic than that of secondary vaccinations, (pp. 195, 9b.)J 2648 Vaccination is a completely dangerless operation which may be performed at any time of year and in any age. It seems, however, most, suitable, unless there be prevailing small-pox, to perform it in the secon half of the child’s first year, in spring, summer, or autumn, when th child’s health is undisturbed. . , , , miict 2649. If vaccination be performed from a fresh pustule, the chi be placed on the lap of a sitting person. The point of a lancet is o be introduced into such pustule, as above described, of a person near at han , so as to brincr away some of the clear matter upon it withou draw ng blood The child’s upper-arm is then grasped, the skin drawn tight, an J e diarged lancet thrust in obliquely, about a line beneath which must be gently lifted, the point of the lancet moved a little back wards and forwards, and the left thumb being placed on its point, th lancet Is then laid flat, and drawn out. In this way, three insertions of matter are to be made’on each arm. Dressing ts unnecessary. If the wound bleed, it must be left to dry, and not be rFor the proper performance ofvaccination, Gregory s j ■ ‘ tjon that ingly sharp. U should penetrate the cation to a ^considerable deptk the subsequent effusion of blood W^1 wash out , h of due intensity h» is quite imaginary and groundless. Provided that g y ^ .g immatenal. once come in contact with the absorbing surfi , linthinff can prevent the The vessels of the part have received the specific stimu li , incision, the advance of the disorder, but some constitutional cause. In niak g 'e’"cft d £B be held perfectly tense between the forefinger and^ The lancet should be held in a slanting posi ion, ai , 0f ordinary intensity, i w,,wards * * * I would recommend that, with lymph otwinarj fivlvesicles should be raised, and that these should be at such disttnces from as not to become confluent in their advance to maturation (pp- 10] 2650. If vaccination be performed with dry matter, m . int. with pure water, «, that a part of it may be got upon ^ ance.^^ In other respects, the proceeding is precisely the same after vaccination, if it be effectual. It' mode. jut;. , . i 2651. The appearances which ensue “ 0,!7he1.™amls7co.,d day only a trace of the slight stab is observed. OnOF VACCINATION. 875 the third day a blush appears at the place of vaccination, which becomes moie distinct on the fourth and fifth days, and in its middle a little hard the siSTdalh!hh lnCrSeSr? 1Si surrounded with a reddish areola. O„ In,p fl hid y hefcoIo,:lr.of the knob becomes reddish white, it contains so le fluid, presents a pit in its centre, surrounded with a swollen edo-e • the red Z/1Shfelt " deeP b6neath the Skin as ifc is elevated above itthe dktirwTv be.C°meS fmore considerable. On the seventh day the vesicle decked 7 OnS ThTTu fluid’ ?nd the °ther aPPearances are more it £a?ii ° + th eighSh d^ the vesicle has attained the size of a lentil • middl7d^'Llnt^^S^^e^,1^7 concerted ^nt^pus/an^th^pi^iiif7ts ^sSSSS^tSSi^ pain and swelling of the axillary glandt '(]>). mU°h m9arae<l> there 18 oflp" ' .“byaid of the micro- on the second day. On the fifth day the cuticle iselet Jed be,dlstlnct1/ Perceived, even containing a thin and perfectly transparent fluid fu/ V t0 aPearl-coloured vesicle, ' v.es'cle is c,rcular or oval aSH the m,X nf^6 . The ^ape of the eighth day the vesicle is in its greatest nerfeoti™It f makl.nS.the incision. On the vated above the surrounding skin In colour fh ’ “f gm ls tmged and sensibly ele- The quantity of fluid which it contain im Ji®/681?1* be yellowish or pearly, examined, the vesicle will exhibit a LiJlLstucture ThI “if’ Wh? dose^ circular shape, and a brown or mahogany colour lif dp l° dry.,U-P’,and, a scab f°rms, of a and at length between the eighteenth andtyrZv f thlS hirdens’and blackens, cicatrix of a form and size propSS toS%ri0r ^ ^7^ bebind a l^r " l>e of small size, cirvuZ, a,^ A Peifect vacci™ ^ These show the character of the primarv infi-imm t l radiations and indentations. jjfeceeded beyond the desirable deJtS of M?’ ^15tet that h bad not p£ ^appear entirely as Hfe advances.%p. 189, 190./' M 7 °f h® m0St Perfect scars dis- WJthizes. At thltVerio/ hVwever'it‘’is'VsuVlTo°fiV’l ?UStitUtion seld«® sympa- SrhM7' The b0Wels are disordered. The skin is hotand'“J/1*. 6°mewhat restIe*s aad • Vowp eVKlenc,es of constitutional sympathy cmitinueV! " nig,ht 8 rest is disturbed, suowever, much variety observable here sL! vu f two or tflree days. There is 'diealth through out lhe^rhaIe^S^taS^,1^h,U®,P - their genevZ > pp- "" i,e —h "«* *. «suss5 safe | 2652 rpi i ;*p, °fCCl,r ““*«”* this '. be vaccination. But if the course of ! t ,0Ut 1.nterfenng with the effect of ‘ ’6 /rrned on the first or second day ifTt T °lne ves.,cle be irregular, if it ontents be not clear and transnareV T n° pit ln lts lniddl«, if its |be.nflammation sprea(, more S/Vri ytl0T Puru,entl f“rther, if ! f the pock be wanting; if the vm’ei. r hardnes® on the circumference ° ’ he vaccination spot be from the very first876 OF INFUSION AND TRANSFUSION. converted into an ulcer, or a mere slough ; if instead of a dusky-brown 1 or blackish scab, a yellowish-green, loose scab be formed; if the febrile.' symptoms be entirely absent, or do not appear at the proper time, the vac- - cination must be considered as a failure, and the security from it of not value. The cause may rest on vaccinating with bad matter, it it be nott clear, or if the lymph employed be putrid, if it be inserted too deeply, orr if it be inserted with a blister-plaster. [On this point Gregory remarks:-" Occasionally we meet with persons who from some peculiarity of habit, are wholly insensible to the vaccine poison, in -whateier intensitv! and by whatever mode it is applied. They receive it as they would so much cold water. The proportion of mankind who exhibit this idKisyncrasy is verj sma . I mav have seen thirty or forty such cases in the course of my life. It w ould be very interesting to determine whether this constitutional inaptitude to cow-pox denotes a like inantitude^to receive and develop the variolous poison. In the few cases which I have seen, where inoculation was subsequently tried, the insusceptibility was P™^tex- tend to both poisons ; but I have read of instances of an °PP°site kind. insusceptibility to the vaccine poison is, in some cases, obviously dependent on constuu "wSess, displayed in the slowness of dentition, the imperfect ossification of the head and the emaciated aspect of the body. There exists here an atony of the ab- sorbent system.” (pp- 188, 189.)] 2653. The after-treatment of vaccination simply requires proper regu- lation of the health. Care must be taken that the child do not touch or scratch the pock. In severe inflammation cold applications must be ma , and if much fever, proper diet must be directed If there be >»^h sup- puration at the vaccination spot, lead wash must be appli . , of the skin, which sometimes occur after vaccination, either subside | themselves under proper treatment, or by the use of slightly-diaphoret retire (1) If rtJ vaccination fail, it must after some time be re- iS r^rnT—n,” says Gregory “to find rally or partially, with a papulous eruption, o a ic_ j tio’n . ^ut js frequent the twelfth day, or even later. It is seldom seen in adult^cmafron^ discharged in children full of blood, in whom numerous vesicles had h^ rmsed, great freely. Vaccine lichen, as this eruption is propcrly^l'ed, often occjBonj^ aiixiety in the mind of the parent, from a minute^esicles^ but this latter ap- I have seen it in such intensity as to be followt y attributable to the peculiar pearance is very rare. It is an accidental occurrence, V delicacy of the child’s skin and fulness of habit. Like , • • ot deemed fever, it indicates that the disease has taken effect on the system; but it is essential to the success of the process.” (p. 191.)] VI.—OF INFUSION AND TRANSFUSION. Denis, J., Lettrc sur la Transfusion du Sang. Paris, 1667. Merklin, De Ortu et Occasu Traufusionis Sanguinis. Nurimb., 1679. Major, Chirurgia Infusoria. Kilon. 17tx. Ettmuller, De Chirurgia Transfusoriil. Lipsioe, 1697. duug die**OF INFUSION. 877 Scheel, Die Transfusion des Blutes und Einspritzung der Arzneien in die Adorn historisch und in Riichsicht auf die Heilkunde. Kopenhagen, 1802-1803. Adern> 18«—> E'- De Usu Transfusionis Sanguinis, praecipue in Asphyxia. Berol., Graefe, Dissert, de Nova Infusionis Methodo. Berol., 1817. de Boer, Dissert, de Transfusione Sanguinis. Groning., 1817. Percy et Laurent, Article Infusion; in Diet, des Sciences Medic., vol. lxxv. • James, M.D., Experiments on the Transfusion of Blood by the Svrinee • in Medic.-Chir. Trans., vol. ix. p. 56. 1818. y oynnge, Ibid., Physiological and Pathological Researches. London, 1825. 8vo. Tietzel, Dissert, de Transfusione Sanguinis. Berol., 1824. h;P™f™ach’ J: F- Transfusion des Blutes und die Infusion des Arzneien in die Blutgefasse, vol. i. Berlin, 1828. ^-izueien in Heyken, Dissert, de Transfusione et Infusione. Rostoch, 1830. Blasius, Klinisch-chirurgische Bemerkungen, p. 123. Halle, 1832. Marcinkowsky ; in Hamburger Zeitschrifte, vol. i. part iii. Berg; in Wiirtemberger Correspondenzblatt. 1838, Jan. Giesler ; in Holscher's Annalen, vol. ii. part ii. Berthold ; in same, vol. iii. part iv. ninp6ff' Infusion conusisfs in °Psnillg a vein, through which opening the and the synnprmfy Kintr°duced uP™Ls, some medicated fluid injected and the wound of the vein afterwards treated in the same way as that made n boodle ting. This operation, which in the latter half of theseven eenth century attracted great attention, was especially employed in those cases where no medicine could be taken bv the month n L u ° 11 °Se tunes used successfully when foreign bodies had stuck in the throat* Tpar 1731,) as well also as in cases of seeming death ’ w ■ who first performed it on a malefactor in u-i sjiDjcctea by Lh. Wren, English Physicians P ahk t!!» 1 a* ^166°’ PhllosoP^cal examination. The Major in 1664 and ELS rnitn m^'fir?61’5’experiments ™th it upon brutes ; and P. Sarpi, especially occupiedHnw^ 5 estimation of ph/sicianj and LsoJ^rflSiAbee^Sved g" “ *e Germany by Kohler, IIemran, Meckel, and others Afte^thJflrlv ol™ own experiments upon this subject had been collected bv Sorm ? and hls ,e„Tkf S„"fofX S different according |„ bt besides those peculiar to them, are sweating freniim,!^^-?^’^ ,al mjections produce, •vl body and sometimes fever. All the remedies ,? ! V<,n!lt!n& Juddering of the whole 1 faad be only as warm as the blood^ In stubborn ",USt ^.dissolved in water 1 he mind, hysteria, tetanus and trismus in r.vo^ diseases epilepsy, affections of ! ;d!ffaSeS °f theskin- in typhus and intermittentTwis dl®.ea7es’ gout, obstinate different remedies have been injected Nnrenti 6 S’ ,lfus,on llas been tried, and very fe"*". digitalis, nux vomica sSninJ Tin -Qmfles' as belladonna, opium, hycl o;given m two-thirds of their ordinary «T ? have generally dared only to be « tbe same effect as if taken into thr> ^ °Sel Sa, t ls, borne in large quantity ; they have la?ular- Simple warm water which M^o’ thoUgl* their operation is mostly very irre- Ss j--,-v a878 OF INFUSION. cough, pale urine, faintness, and severe sweating. Tn tetanus Percy, Laurent and \ Onsenoort have found good results from injecting cxtr. opii and extr. datura stramonii. | In cholera Latte injected a solution of salt, consisting of two to three drams of nitre and two scruples of carbonate of potash to six pints of distilled water, at a temperature l of 112° Fahrenheit, to the amount of six or eight pints at once, and repeated it, so that t| from fifteen to forty-four pints were thrown in. In Germany this was tried by Zim- • [ MERMANN, Casper, Blasius and others, but it produced only a passing effect. In cases ■ of foreign bodies in the throat, Kohler, Balk, Kraus and Graefe have employed with i L advantage an injection of a solution of two to six grains of tartarized antimony, in half !t an ounce to an ounce and a half of distilled water, with the result already mentioned l t {par. 1731); and Meckel has also used it in a case of seeming death. 2655. For injection, a very small vein should not be chosen, the vena • cephalica is best. After the arm has been properly fixed, a fold of skin is to be made over the vein, and cut through lengthways from an i inch and a half to two inches in the course of the vein ; the vein is to be ■ separated from the cellular tissue and two threads carried round it; after : which it is to be lifted a little up and opened lengthways with the lancet, . to' an extent corresponding with the size of the pipe. After having filled the pipe with warm water, it must be passed in towards the heart, the threads tied firmly around it so that the blood shall not escape, and then it is to be held by an assistant. The syringe heated by dipping in warm i water to the temperature of the blood is now filled with the fluid warmed I to the same degree, and its point being directed upwards, some of the fluid is squirted out, so that all air may be got rid of; it is then intro- duced into the pipe, and the fluid slowly and at intervals injected into the vein. If more fluid have to be thrown in, the syringe must be re- moved, the opening of the pipe covered with the finger, and the injection l repeated as before. When the injection has been completed, the threads are to be removed, the pipe carefully withdrawn from the vein, and the wound compressed with the thumb and finger of the left hand. T e wound in the skin is to be brought together with slips of sticking plaster, over which a little compress and a bandage are to be applied, as alter bloodletting. To prevent inflammation cold applications are to be made for some days. The practice of opening the vein after putting on a bandage, as in bloodletting, an injecting after the removal of the bandage is improper, as the injection P “ „ the cellular tissue. According to Blasius, the vein should be laid bare by a po the skin, compressed at the upper part of the wound, opened in ifa*g. with a lancet, and into this aperture the little tube immediately mserted. For'tK jection he employs a tube with a pig’s bladder; Scheel uses a syringe with an elf*^ tube ; others an Indian rubber bottle, Helper’s funnel of transparent liorn Ha a® uses a glass blowpipe with a silver syringe; Graefe opened the yym with a uu^ curved trocar which he thrust into the swollen vein, drew out the stilette, alio ounce of blood to escape from the canula, and into it introduced a closelj-fitting sj 6 with which he injected the fluid. 2656. Transfusion consists in opening a vein, into which blood is con 2656. lranstusion consists in opening a vem, ujw "“p- . veved from the artery or vein of another person, (immediate transju v or by means of a syringe (mediate transfusion, infusory trmisfmim^^ history of this operation is connected with that of infusion. I he history of this operation is connecieu wun umi ui \ by of improving the juices, and of curing cachectic and dyscrasici di * the transfusion of the blood of man or brutes, which w^ ve p 1 the latter half of the seventeenth century, has n°t b““ confirm^ perience. The operation was nearly forgotten, and only « ' ^ lias been brought into use successfully m cases of iflng, where after childbirth, and also in continued and irremediable vomiting,OF TRANSFUSION. 879 death fiom inanition was dreaded (Blundell). Only in such cases can its employment be advantageous, as even in cholera, its use has been with- out any beneficial result. Although M. Pegelius and Paola Salvi are named as the discoverers of transfusion Libavius, and afterwards Colle, noticed it, yet it was first performed in France bv Denis and Emmebez in 1667, and by King afterwards in England on man; in Germany by Kauffmann and Pubmann. Notwithstanding the predilection of many practitioners for this operation, its results were not such as to keep it in sight. Rosa first repeated it in 083; Scheel m 1802 collected the experiments already made in recent times has successfully performed this operation in cases of loss of blood and pro- posed it in vomiting which could not be stopped, and the inanition to be feared therefrom Hence are the English practitioners decided on its employment, and it has consequS Dnw.rafwU byT?°U,!LEI,AY’ Uwins, Waller, Knox, and others. Phevost a^d Sew FFFENBtCH> have made experiments interesting in a physiological has +1 atter has emPlo7ed though without advantage, in cholera. * Graefe has modified the apparatus for immediate transfusion. tb5if,roItI]0U§'hiimmediate transfusion has the important advantage Ivarm !e-b °0C n0t C?mnged by the influence of the air, its natural the n t* 1& p£e.h,erv.ed’ that !t does not coagulate, and is even propelled by £ hee0n / I‘etrt 5 yet’ hovvever’in recent times, mediate transfusion as been preferred, because, in immediate transfusion by tubes, the blood SSlvtisnnaotfr SeC°nLS; Whereby itS - prevented, and generally it is not known what quantity of blood lias passed - because urther, the passage of blood from one vein to another fs impossible as he stream of venous blood has not sufficient power, the openiimof a small artery's msuffic but, that of a larger one not admtaibkTn ^ veZrs 'tfbeasts.genera y’m0re pr0per’and h,lmal1 Mood more suitable than that Jll«ir,rT«Cc»™r,,7e„", EPS ”»» used 1 serting their free ends Rnrm, nl , K and tben connected both by in- Kiapparatus consists of a glass cylinder filial 1; l 0uUl0WInS blood- von Graefe’s |,k290 Reaum f97<> Fahr f,!:,i cynncler tilled with warm water at a temperature of ft: water, and through which a gla^tube^Iss^^f00^ f°r-the elSCape and renewal of the m at one end another tube, of which that for the !yH)® tbe hlood, which received 1 ’•hat for the other, elastic. G artery WilS curved and Mouldered, and F.Uabfr near the pati^Vn™ofwhose^vdn^^ boand> is.placed on H e heart; this is given to an assistant and below tl, ’ * ,tube Passt‘d into it towards e upphed. The carotid or crural arter™ a ^Pressing bandage is Jare.ahgaturepassecl around, and a director m-li beastl is. then ]aid *are, a ligature passed around acctordlnS t0 the size of the beast, i > Prt the vessel is opened lengthways with^^“laEet^^ntatfr4, and beneath the Pressed ube is inserted, and the artery fastened nL, 1 °Pen!ng the end of one ‘ M* is th“ opening the «d "of om Rerted intothe tube ensheathed in the vein after the nrl^ llgaKtur®! the other end is in feandalittle blood allowed to hee.n from the artery, and a Htfto CZ5 ZlZewt h»? ^ ~ed from tin ^withdrawn, and the wound closed! as in bloodleUb^"11011 1S finished the appa 1 xvi u> 111 bloodletting. ' ‘ble danger of infusion anffif/ ^ 26f4) in reference to the pos- *e injected at nnM ™,i\„PP .'S ,a, S0 to triu“sfusion. If too much blood inpe injected at r,,’iF. tUb° 10 transfusion. naWand tZ ’ *** t0° quickly’ o^filling and lerdv tb. may ensue- Magendie has als rending of the heart, Merely the entrance of ^AGENDIE has also observed that not ‘ aa*e death by stopping n ti,e° ^ I61”’ ^ als° °f cIotted blood, may y stopping up the minute vessels of the lungs. According OOF CAUTERIZATION. 880 to Bickersteth (a), transfusion should, where possible, be undertaker before the circulation in the patient’s arm has entirely ceased. 2659. The following is the mode of proceeding in mediate transfusion A sufficiently large superficial vein, the vena cephalica is best, must b< laid bare, by a cut an inch and a half long, upon a fold of skin ; the veil is to be cleared from the cellular tissue, and two threads cariied round its of which the one corresponds to the upper, and the other to the lower i* angle of the wound. The threads are now to be tied, and whilst with ? them the vessel is a little raised, it is opened with the lancet. The canukl n filled with warm water, is now passed into the vein, and the upper threat* I tied over it, the lower thread remaining tied. Whilst this is doing, the person from whom the blood is to be taken, standing close to the patient* I has a vein opened with a large wound, the blood is received into a warn: <f vessel, and the syringe, also warmed, draws up of it about two ounces I The point of the syringe is now quickly directed upwards, a little bloot squirted out to get rid of the air, and it is then fixed into the canula in thft vein, and the blood slowly injected through it. The syringe should not bt i completely emptied, because the remaining blood m it quickly clots. ih« U svrino-e is now to be cleared with warm water, and the injection repeated^ for which purpose the vein, which in the mean while has been compressed*! must now be reopened, and blood drawn into a cup as already mentioned I After the lapse of five minutes, more blood may be thrown in according to circumstances. The dressing and after-treatment are to be managed* exactly as in infusion, (par. 2635.) Blundell’s apparatus consists of a funnel for receiving the blood connected by a tub -with the syringe which injects the blood into the vein through an elastic tube. It is no P1 Instead oTa6 swringrholding two ounces, Blasius thinks a smaller one holding no I more than half an ounce, is better, as therewith the blood loses less of its vitality, am Cl0JoHN MiiLLER proposes, after separating the fibrous parts from the blood by gating ^ to inject it warmed, as in this way it still retains its corpuscles and living powers. $ VII.—OF CAUTERIZATION. Costjeus, De Igneis Medicinal Prmsidiis. Venet., 1593. Fienus, De Cauteriis. Leovan, 1598. ™ Severinus, Pyrotechnia Chirurgica; in his De Efficaci Medicinal, p. 143. Franco 1646. Recueil des Pieces, qui out concouru pour le prix de l’Academie de ChirulgKp Pouteau, Memoire sur les Avantages du Cautere Actuel; in his Melanges Loder, Ueber das kiinstliche Brennen; in his Medic.-Chirurg. Beobachtunge , " j Pascal, Ueber die Wirkungen des Brennens mit Moxa; in neuster Samuil g | bester Abiiandlungen fur Wundiirzte, vol. ii. p. 302. Percy, Pyrotechnic Chirurgicale Pratique. Paris, 1810. .w Actuel 1 Valentin, L., Memoire et Observations concernant les bons effets du an <. NL^REv!l)e l’Usage de Moxa ; in Recueil de Memoires de Chirurgie, p- 1- Pari8J 1821. 599 („) Liverpool Medical Journal. 1834. May.-London Medical Gazette, vol. *W. P-KINDS OP CAUTERIZATION; THE ACTUAL CAUTERY. 881 Baerwinkel, Dissert, de Igniis in Arte Medicina. Lipsise, 18‘>4 #M££4ebs»js tsr**Eisensi in t“ - «» Wolff; in same, vol. v. part. iii. hehen. ^ AnwenduDg des Gliiheisens bei verschiedenen Krank- 2660. Under the term Cauterization, is included the more nr w vere application of escharotics or offire on any part of our bodv rotics, (Cauleriapotentials, Lat. ; Aetzmittll}Cevm. ■ Caustiauf Fr ■**> or ijizs rtr ?MoTi:res {Carr mi’. ^ehoZ:U7ed,t0bUm °AheLmc’e ofL bf™’^ ’ first, the destruction oTaepa«10ieWenXrrrr^ and tumours is effeTed tkirJ “ * f absorPtio» and the dispersion of moval of a d<*™\of inanimation ; fourth, re- destruction of Lnful maHer li T? t0 ^ °f the A J fifth, of the so-called parenchymatous T,’ St°Ppage of ble„echng> especially that kred8„ppr«rLJdThed.UalSyand 0ther ,,e"0,'a *> 'y escharotics andbbyX^\khat the^o^"06 \° ^ effeCt °f cauterization part on which itI ap’uejbut^, 7 “T* desl™«»» of =£ ?" of muscles, and independent of those ■V'°len.t contrac- ' ructlon of any part or tlie formation of o l W,iere lts ob.Ject is the- jnany other cases as a powerful remedv f ' 0Ugb’ may be considered t,on of the slough formed bv 7 Y °r he purPose> after the sepa- ration. ° °rmed by the burn> of keeping up long-continudd at; it mlidfherbl held^T T7 be emPloyed at various decrees of *■% /earer a^neared to a *7 °™Ve 0rsix “‘chcs, and Irought - surface of a part, or it mav he i" i °r ^ may be moved freely upon -cording to these degrees in tl e annP lnrCOntact with ifc for some time. 2C<?/ary, and in the®!^ W » 7 aCtUal Caute,7 d« its 2b64- Of the various V Very effectual and exciting, fai) and if 0f different ■’ ° cautery irons the following are most P0L u different size answer all purposes, a. conical, V flat 3 i.CAUTERIZATION BY THE MOXA. 882 - round, y. prismatic or hatchet-shaped. The conical iron is specially used where one particular small part is to be acted on, for instance in bleed- ings ; the round, where the effect is to be greater and a permanent issue is to be formed ; the prismatic or hatchet shaped, for quickly passing over any part. If the actual cautery be used in any one cavity, or without subjecting the neighbouring parts to the effect of the fire, either a conical i iron with a sheath must be employed or a red-hot trocar, which is to be carried to the part required in its own sheath. 2665 When the actual cautery is made use of, special care must be-, taken that the patient be held fast; and the part to which it is applied must be carefully dried, and if hairy the hairs must be removed The. iron should be white-hot. When the object is to destroy a part, to stanch a bleeding, or to form an issue, it must be applied efficiently and presswi- down with requisite force. If the iron cool and the object be yet uuat- tained, a second white-hot iron must be applied If the cauterJ b®ap^: in stripes, the stripes should be first marked should not go fiomtbe same, fe noint should not cross, should be an inch and a half to three inches.: asunder, and the white-hot prismatic or hatchet-shaped non should ta carried in the direction of these stripes with due care ovct the skin he cause it very easily slips from the proper direction. Kmn s double, cautery iron much facilitates this operation. The parts to he avoided in applying either the Ml> St be skull, where covered only by the f *""“,wbe bfjSgaW »the applied here above a couple of seconds, of the nose the eyelids, the course membranes of the brain and the brain itse , » ^ Jhite line of the of thp larynx and windpipe, the breast-bone, the breast glands, . . „i,ere dreaded (a). . . 2666. After the actual cautery has been applied, the par mus vered with lint, dry and spread with some simple ointment, following be ve’ry severe, it may be relieved with anodyne aPP1^^ ^ mtient must be kept quiet, and according to circumstances, take 1 Sor narcoUc medicines. When the slough separates thei *»PI>U£$ part must be dressed with ointment which will W0,noff 1‘f suppuration must be kept up as the case requires. off of the slougl hav e been made on account of bleeding, the early dropping oil of S must be carefully avoided. , i. frK,p,i,pr witli a linei 2667. The Moxa is a cylinder of cotton held^ or smalle bandage and a few stitches, about an inch high, andof large Hfld extent, according to the condition of the part o w . . 0 tighth and the effect it should produce. The cotton must "°‘g(hi compressed, and the part on which the moxa is placed m metalli' To fix the moxa, a moxa-holder (5) is best employ , ’ wliere tli rincr with wooden feet and handle. The neighbouring P then noxa is applied must be covered with moist compresses to pro ^ from the sparks which fly about, as when hghte it mus ^ reqUire< pipe so as to keep it properly burning; but if its etiec (.) LARRSv.nbovedtoi, p. 6,pl. xMg- 1,2- (i) L.«wv, **• * ' 'DIVISION OF NERVES IN NEURALGIA. 883 ite dige'S^otC “ “ i“,h,”fi',he'S'!, “fe“h "™* 1» “d iB !m*" - ^ i^P “a«o7a,1 «a«^Zd>np“‘5ZToSlbS‘a°»!ta>” 7 ‘j<h,°flhe V>*a°<"*{HeliaMtu, taming wi,w‘E („f,h l"ds of “°“ to™ «* advant«ge, like the formic, of sol'n’SI »eao“ ,E,"„gM l“”8-P?Per' diPPrf * CfilSlgSel'off (“7“"““'S'“Sh is ”« linen, or f ‘° ‘c COVe/ed either "'ith *>M» of soft SSgSpS; nsy-pisraa at 5,“ - *■ *■- •«i oanfer^sTtefttTfor^X f Ct f « “»» and of the actual v ally increased to a violent decree of pa 'n“ hen77“'“. is Srad“- to the deeper tissues and mnoon +F • ’ 1fnce extends its operation deep-seated organs,’to the actuTl cStary ,feC,i°"S °f I T3*of T’ “"-'StesTS I tbe”bnrni„g0„fP the cotton (c) 7 “Ct"'e 1>r,nC,P1<!’ "hicl> is Produced by VIII.-OP THE DIVISION OF NERVES IN NEURALGIA. rTnw Tait»t a t t\ a /» r— UN INiDURALGIA. tuqcessfwly treated by division D7,lotln',eu.x’ or Pa>nfW affection of the Face Bftecords and Researches,DCT^ in Medffi |w^^^^ti^E<^^tting^t^go5.nat0m*CO"^*rUr®*OUS dG Nervis Cerebri in do]ore Faciei |5m7n^'0dia07^td”^ der Ne"“ “ de“ iHtainbtssclimerze ; in von I 101717*W‘n *7”* d‘ssect0 l^erT0 infraorbital! profligati Historia. Heidelb 1807 ! -a«rie,e„e’r &£&££%&£ S™! h *«liS rfwlfc0”’ °" th8 Tic D'“,1"",'“'x i 1" bis.Surgical Works, vol. ii. p. 203, S ??UHIUV’ Ess;‘y 011 Neuralgia. New York, 1816 ' ‘me, vol. vii. part iv. ^5.3 8° dCS GLSlclltsscllmerzes und die Operation desselben ; in * ^eurot°mie sousC^tM^e*°pS6^22.dlnparis et Lyons^Jsu’ etC'5 SU'Vi d’Un Me'moiresur IT"’, 0UtHneS °f HUman Path°10^- ’ ^on, 1836. 8vo. iCfe- «1; " " V0N WA,-THE8’S JoUrnftl> Jolng, and a,8„ |n chronic Rheumatism, Rheum ffl; c] Botl* C t’ P &‘C r0Ut’, L“m^go. Sciatica, Indolent TumouS’ ‘'‘toxaTntheTmMt,,e°n?mo,lifledapplication Wiut Mh apu!'1 JMition.-WALtW, the Treatment Of Stiff and Contracted 3 l 2DIVISION OF NERVES 884 2670. In stubborn neuralgies, which withstand all internal and external treatment, specially those which are seated in the branches of the nerves of the face, the division of the trunk is the only remaining remedy. IbetJ result of this operation is generally doubtful, as, although momentary relief :| i from pain follows it, the disease returns, which is explained by the nume- ; rous ramifications of the nerves spreading on the face, but is kept up by the union of the divided nerves, on which account it has been recommended i to cut out a piece of the nerve, and to employ cauterization. In recentj times, however, the subcutaneous division of nerves has been proposed..H (Bonnet, Dieffenbach, and others.) 2671. In frontal neuralgy where the supraorbitar branch of the fit I pair of nerves is affected, the pain begins in the supraorbitar hole spreads j over the forehead, the hairy part of the head, downwards into the orbit to the inner corner of the eyelids, and frequently over the whole side of ji the face. The supraorbitar nerve should be cut through transversely, • doing which the soft parts, above the supraorbitar hole, must be divided j down to the bone with a bistoury, and lint thrust into the woun , *| should heal by suppuration and granulation. , the nerve do not escape, the edge of the knife mus ® ul“ h t0 divided, the and downwards, and the division made m the same way. 2672. In the case of an infraorbitar (Foth ergi ll 8 W ache ) where the pain begins at the outlet for the infraorbitar ’ spreads over the wings of the nose, the cheek and upper lip of one side the.infraorbitar nerve must be divided. This must be c one y ° ]f ■nointed bistoury half an inch below the under edge of the orbit, am ^n inch fromS inner corner of the eye, directly down towards he cm^ tooth, to the bone, and carried outwards, and ^nwani8 three q * of an inch towards the zygomatic process of the upper jawbone, wound is to be treated as in the former case. sWn is first In the subcutaneous division of the infraorbitar 5^ch from which out- chosen which corresponds to the i nfraoi 'n ar io , . , • j t0 t>e pierced. The wards and the same distance below the edge of ,f ,and, m render the upper lip must be drawn downwards and forward s wth upwards, nerve tense and separate it from the cuspid pit. , and a little downwards, is introduced with‘the right hand and cuts ^ hole, that it may sweep the bottom of the cuspid pit, ti uttle forwards and divides and stop on the nasal eminence. The edge is now dlrf ^Ve fclose to Ae tone. the nerve by a lever-like movement, the knife being always kept close 2673. When the face-ache spreads from the middie of the or towards the wing of the nose and lower Vhfn ^the t^th, and angle. I the mouth and upper lip, or all» iand inferior 4 of the lower jaw, the middle branches of and the 6 maxillary nerves, or even the lower branches of the facial 1 mental nerve are affected. ^ ^ mM,e lramhes ", . . _ . nBoprvatiuns and mq In the former case (a) Fothkroim., J., M.D., Of a painful Affection of the Face ; in vol. v. p. 129. London, 1776.IN NEUKALGIA. 885 sifrom rbout lhe fcwlr'k'* *M Che<t tllro"Sh tlle "*■ masseur to thunder eta Gi- be avoiLi! The UeeS fromTf^T^ The parotid duct the nose, and evelid.Uen leckllJ ,L 1 T'1?1’’ t0Wards “le ear, BiszeJs^s: KWrassss H ..,e c°t of 'iie *»«■' extend from the second molar tooth over gI “euralgy, and the pain towards the ear and eve the infer In ■/, *16 lower Jaw> and the teeth for which purpose the3 memh-£T ™axiUary nerve must be cut through, and the knife“I gUmS is to be the lower jaw, down to theLne 7f tto u m°ir .t0°th t0 the base of be divided at its entrance into the -n be lnsuificient, the nerve may »«tr the coronoid process “Id then"1?' 'T’ by Cultin«- verti“Hy be2674. ttTC(Ynd tL »-rte-WoLT(!)a'10" WI‘h a fenbach pisses6 rtemtomTSin‘y'^°’‘ ^v’'6 ™TV‘S ^ the c/‘“4> Dizf- 1 divides tliePaffected nerves with 7 - dlrectl,ons beneath the skin, and tor the subcutaneous division of tlrn^e'^ S^°^eS‘ In mental neuralgv, I hole, the skin coverinTthe lower^ 1J’ f ^ “*e from the cental 151 pierced half an inch fmm fi 7 • must> according to Bonnet be 5- lower edge of the ho^ontalb^h^fth^J1 ^ ^ <Stance from the r introduced with the rtoht hand whilst tl ,°"ei Jaw/ ^he tenotome is ■ three finders of the loft°i 1 n ’ , st the lower lip is held with the first > the f,nd middle being platd on Pnolar tooth, the lower lin draw? to n mue°us membrane at the first ■separated a little from the bone TheuP^rds’ the nerve |ls P^ed backwards and upwards till it!' T' ‘ ^ GdgG downwards, .Simone, and always touch it P™ 1Yu * P°mt which should run alone- the t"4w- beSHf^crhm»btem tL^’ 7\ he m by £ |h.s movement is iepLSd Sral back ; and f re "2y kept on the upper surface of the hone* rc (fd£e of tlle 'n!fb is > ormed on the right side, the left hand must 1 *5“ °Peration be per- c he patient, and the lip held with three fi * be round the head of a*be »nside. 1 mth tlnee fillgers, whilst the thumb rests on •Jpe rtleT^ver a'K^compltte relief ’Tn °f fece’ according- '.a? first struck with tlie idea of lh i 6. ieP’ fnd * be Pain recurs, ICeein 1dS flt from the stylo-mastoid hoTe^ Afte ° ^ °f th? facial nerve 1 “ Performed on the dead body f0P the ^ffe.r vari°us experimentSswhich ;had thought of, he performed the ^ °f the nerve at tbe Part ade a deep penetrating cut with a slfto?" the following way. He USt In> below the Iobeof the auricle f ft™1*™?? bistoury, which l,e C,e’ ',6l‘ ,,p-pulled’ to»ards ‘be from n) Ki.ein, above c' • ’ ulJ-puiiea, towards the frontDIVISION OF NERVES IN NEURALGIA. 886 edge of the mastoid process, obliquely behind it, to its extremity. The’ divided occipital artery bled smartly, but was checked by an assistant:! I I pressing on the carotid. He then made a transverse cut below the lobe of’ inner side, then fronT the inner edge of the base of that process and the in. sterno- ut inwards, towards the styloia « mastoideus, from above down-wards, and from without process, where it tears away the cellular tissue covering the nerve, which then appea ing as a white cord above the hinder belly of the m. digastricus majcilla infenoriM, taken hold of with the forceps, lifted up a little and cut through, or a piece ot i of nerves with the taken out. 2677. On comparing the subcutaneous division .. — ordinary mode of proceeding, it cannot be denied, that the comple e division of the nerve in every case is more difficult, and the nerve may even be missed. This, however, can be avoided by careful performance of the operation, founded on correct anatomical knowledge. '1 he syroPj toms are usually slight, as in all subcutaneous operations, and the b the auricle, separating it from the beginning of the first cut to the tem- poral artery, which he avoided, and immediately some trifling auricular branches spouted forth. He then separated the flap in the same way deeply to the hinder edge of the styloid process throughout its whole length, at the same time thrusting the point of the knife deeply upwards and back- wards, and lengthening the cut also behind the mastoid process down to the bone. Herewith the facial nerve was cut in two. He now quickly pushed a hot blunt round cautery iron as thick as a common quill, obliquely from below upwards and inwards, pressed it firmly and for some time on the stylo-mastoid hole, and carried it in different directions for the purpose of cauterizing the occipital artery. The wound, which still continued bleed-i ing, was plugged with lint dipped in white of egg and strewed with gum arabic, covered with a compress, the whole fastened with a cloth around the head, and pressure kept up several hours, by an assistant. 2676. No remarkable symptoms occurred after the operation, and the wound healed in a short time. Wryness of the mouth and tip of the nose, which occurred on the destruction of the nerve, subsided, and the face-ache completely ceased. In a second case, which Klein operated on, the result was the same, and the patient had no inconvenience beyond a slight mark. In both cases, however, according to positive assurances, the result was not permanent. Klein considers the operation entirely free from danger. If the division of the facial nerve be properly managed, the carotid artery and jugular vein cannot be wounded, as the former lies in its canal too far trom the styloid process, and the latter is distant from the place of the cut, and if wounded, can be commanded by pressure (a). According to Langenbeck, the division of this nerve can be performed with great safety in the following manner. The auricle being drawn upwards and forwards, a cut is made from the front edge of the root of the mastoid process, where it is connected with the styloid process, and continued below the auditory passage, on the front edge of the m. sterno-mastoideus, so that its tendinous fibres can be seen. The parotid gland ij now laid bare is carefully separated and turned aside; and the wounded posterior or occipital artery tied. The finger is now passed to the upper part of the wound, and feeling the junction of the bony auditory passage, and the root of the styloid process - as a broad bony surface, is pushed on towards the upper edge of the mastoid process, ■> behind it, but stopping at the hind edge of the styloid process, without reaching its I* K. "A h which has been thereby extravasated is soon absorbed. teen tliereoy cxira.vusa.ieu is suou ausurueu. Bonnet has attempted to contravert the objection, that the dm ^ (a) Fkikkeb, Dissert, de Secundo Trunco Nervi Duri in Prosopalgia, cited. Tubing., 1813.—Klein, above .V>!887 AMPUTATION OF THE LIMBS. nerve reunites, by stating-, that after its division the extravasated blood remains between the ends of the nerve, and that, afterwards, one part of it is absorbed, and the other becomes organized, and forms a connecting intermediate substance between them. Whether otherwise, by the sub- cutaneous division of the nerve, the result is rendered more certain, still remains undecided by the experience hitherto had. It must not, however, be overlooked, that several cases which have been related as subcutaneous neuro-myotomies, have produced painful and spasmodic contractions of the muscles («) ; or it may be doubted whether the trunk of the nerve, or only some little branches of it have been divided (l?). The following may be mentioned as examples of the division of nerves, and at dif- ferent parts. Delpech and Earle have cut directly through the ulnar nerve, where it runs behind the inner condyle. Astley Cooper cut out half an inch of the radial nerve after laying it bare on the radii,s. Abernethy and Wilson divided, above the injured part, a nerve wounded in bloodletting. Abernethy cut out half an inch of the digital nerve on the middle joint of the finger. Malagodi cut out a semilunar piece, of a finger s breadth, from the ischiatic nerve in the region of the knee-joint ■ bwan cut through the peroneal nerve, at the inner edge of the outer hamstring; Del- pech divided the posterior tibial nerve, whilst on the hinder edge of the shin-bone laying it and the vessels bare, and separating it from them. Manovy divided the “I6?'6 bc‘hlnd tile,inner condyle, in a case of traumatic trismus. Bujalsky cut tt both from the outer branches of both the accesory nerves of Willis at their exit from the jn. stemo-mastoideus, a piece three inches long, but without an’y satisfactory irTr' i In ,.painS ln the |iee1’ according to Lentin, deep cuts have been made into t|' nhnf ;,and suppuration kept up in them for a long time. From the energetic appliea- i t on of the actual cautery in plantar neuralgy, I have seen the most satisfactory result. 0 IX.—OF AMPUTATION OF THE LIMBS. (Amputatio Membrorum, Lat.; Ablosung der Glieder, Germ.; Amputation, Fr.) London, 1761. If ■ Ei gh t if Ed ,*tA M n E L’ A treatise of the Operations of Surgery, &c. IEdiHon.’ A Critical Inquiry int0 the present State 0f Sureery- London, 1761. Fourth rAmputation des grandes Extremites; in Memoires de l’Acad »e Lhirurgie, vol. n. p. 268, p. 355. Paris, 1761-74. 4to. ■ 773 WUXIAM’ Chirurgical Observations and Cases, vol. i. p. 38. London, j Pezold, De Amputatione Membrorum. Gotting., 1778. Larrey, Memoire sur les Amputations des Membres. Paris, an v. nettATond?n,'l779.’ °bservations uPon Amputation, and the After-Treat- Kirkland, T., Thoughts on Amputation, &c. London, 1780. 8vo. f If™0"8’ R’ Practical Thoughts on Amputations. Birmingham, 1783. 12mo. IuSSwS. “sP“Sc stiEr***of **•>in "is Vi Bell, Benjamin, A System of Surgery, vol. vi. p. 301. Edinburgh, 1783. : Gratis^notandalu n t d Ligd^Batov^lSOa membri’ prffisertim osseis. amputatione vul- |gtSE7!NER’ Ucber die AmPutation grosser Gliedmassen nacli Schusswunden. Leip- !]. SAEditionUof 1 A™Putat'ons dcs Membres; in his (Euvres Chirurgicales, vol. ii. p. i Graefe, Normen fur die Ablosung grbsserer Gliedmassen. Berlin, 1812. 1u»iSOreRramcauxId|IiBnr«<inf^eUra'gi? Krav<? do la Neuro-Myotomie souscutance; in Gazette Me ramcaux du plexus cervical, gueri par dicale de Paris, vol. ix. p. 205. 1843. W Kivieki, alrove quoted, p. 490.888 KINDS OF AMPUTATION. Larrey, Memoires cle Chirurgie Militaire et Campagne, vol. ii. p. 451. Paris 1812-17. 8vo. Benedict, Einige Worte iiber die Amputation in Kriegspitalern. Berlin, 1814. Roux, Memoire et Observations sur la reunion immediate de la Plaie apres 1’Ampu ii tation circulaire des Membres dans leur eontinuite'; suivis du Rapport fait a l’lnstituu parM. M. Percy et Deschamps. Paris, 1814. Ibid., Relation d’un Voyage fait a Londres, p. 336. Paris, 1814. 8vo. Guthrie, G. J., On Gunshot Wounds of the Extremities requiring the differeni Operations of Amputation ; with their After-Treatment. London, 1815. 8vo. Klein, Praktische Ansichten der bedeutendsten chirurgischen Operationen. Part I Stuttgart, 1816. Hutchison, A. Copeland, Practical Observations in Surgery. London, 1816. 8vo Ibid., Some further Observations on the subject of the proper period for amputating in Gunshot Wounds, &c. London, 1817. 8vo. Brunninghausen, Erfahrungen und Bemerkungen iiber die Amputation. Wurzburg- 1818. Maingault, Medecine Operatoire; Traite des diverses Amputations qui se prati; quent sur le Corps Humain, repre'sentees par des figures dessinees d’apres nature e lithographiees. Paris, 1822. fol. Averill, Charles, A short Treatise on Operative Surgery, p. 107. London 1823. sm. 8vo. First Edition. Kern, Ueber die Handlungsweise bei Absetzung der Glieder. Wien, 1826. Second Edition. Hennen, John, Principles of Military Surgery. London, 1829. Third Edition. Dupuytren, le Baron, Legons Orales de Clinique Chirurgicale, vol. iv. p. 233 Paris, 1834. 8vo. Sedillot, De 1’Amputation des Membres dans la eontinuite et la contiguite, sesnvan-. tages et ses inconveniens. Paris, 1836. Syme, James, Principles of Surgery. Edinburgh, 1837. Secoud Edition. Liston, Robert, Elements of Surgery, p. 760, part ii. London, 1840. Second Edit. Alcock, Rutherford, Lectures on Amputation ; in Lancet. 1840-41; vol. i. and ii Schaeffer, H. J., Dissert, de Cultris Amputatoriis. Bonnae, 1842. Fergusson, William, A System of Practical Surgery. London, 1846. Second; Edition. Pelletan, Memoire sur l’Amputation des Membres; in Clinique Chirurgicale, vol. iii. p. 183. Chelius, Ueber Amputationen ; in Heidelb. klinischen Annalen, vol. i. part i. Jaeger, Article Amputatio; in Handworterbuch der Chirurgie, vol. i. p. 157. Malgaigne, Manuel de Medecine Operatoire, fondee sur l’Anatoinie pathologique, et l’Anatomie normale. Paris, 1843. Fourth Edition. . 2678. Amputation is the last and most grievous remedy to which art can have recourse, for the purpose of saving the life of a patient by the loss of a limb. The cases which make it necessary have been already mentioned in treating of gunshot wounds, (par. 346,) compound fractures, (par. 590,) white swelling, (par. 254,) carious ulcers, (par. 886,) and elsewhere. 2679. Amputations may be distinguished into those which are per" i formed in the continuity of the limbs, (Amputationcs,) and those at joint* (Exarticulationes.') . 2680. The following points must be considered of amputations in ge* neral; first, the precaution against bleeding; second, the formation o such wound that the bone may be properly covered with soft parts; tntr ^ i the sawing oft’ the bone; fourth, the stanching the bleeding fromCOMPRESSION OF ARTERIES WITH THE TOURNIQUET. 889 divided vessels; and fifth, the proper treatment of the wound formed by the amputation. 2681. Precaution against bleeding consists in the compression of the principal artery of the limb to be amputated, either by the application of the tourniquet, {par. 283,) or by the fingers of an assistant, or with a proper compressor. _ The application of the tourniquet is accompanied with many inconve- niences, as if it be placed in the neighbourhood of the part where the amputation is to be performed the muscles will not retract properly; it is often inconvenient to the operator, and prevents the return of the blood through the veins. For these reasons compression of the principal artery by a capable assistant, at least in amputation of the upper limbs and thigh, is preferable to the tourniquet. In amputation of the leg the tourni- quet is used, because here tying the ligatures is often difficult, and the assistant compressing the vessel becomes exhausted. Compression must always be made at a spot where the artery is superficial, and the neigh- bouring bone affords a point of support {par. 284.) In patients who are weak and have little blood, Brunninghausen recommends that nhrp6 f O1°per?t-On th,e hmb should he swathed in a flannel bandage nearly up to the place of the cut, m order to dimmish the loss of blood 8 y p ne [The only real advantage derived from the use of a tourniquet at an amputation ex- °f COm!WUn! frac,ure or wounds, where it had been previously applied to check bJeedmg, is, that the operator has no dread of a gush of arterial blood when he *he ialge vessels> lf he have any doubt of the capability and firmness of trust wo rfhv" +h W10m C0nipressl0n of the principal artery is intrusted. But if he be r compression is more certainly made with the fingers than with the 0f w^?h> howeve.r wel1 adjusted, will often slip from the vessel if scarppf i 1 st/.uggl,e’ and become (luite useless. One would think compression could fe* be obJected to, in amputations of the smaller parts of the limbs, when it is in- nably and necessarily employed in amputations high up through the thigh and .inner the hlp a“d aad “ difficulty is^fouSd in bv^he jUStIy °!,jeCted t0 ,tbe tourniquet, that it prevents the return of the blood arteries u" ’ circumstance too little remembered in amputation. Bleeding from the artenes is, in general, caut.ously guarded against; but bleeding from the veins is tbn .aPr a. the" Sd' t0 nut'Thi?Mte<ri St.atG °f tpe "’hole Part>ln consequence of which directly the knife begins BISS ^ "hiCh »P •hecurrerSmlSl.tj'iC^ Wood an vuhere are occasions andX notnVZm F .^!th many others in denying, yet fcmonally fatal to the patient A healtbv^Pu 18 Posltlvelydangerous and occa- «i-earing'or compound fracture* of , 1?^ who’ ™und of’. or from severe )' 'as been so completely pulled down bv it fl.- c°nslderable quantity of blood, and , ' ants and wait for hours till his cireukti^F 141S often necessary to administer stimu- he bleeding have gone off such .rt ° recovered, and the immediate effect of nust take eveTy pfecaution and Z?""0' bT t0.lose an? blood, a»d the operator •fating, for the purpose of^^r.Ll ? be,even the principal artery before ampu- P c the very verge of hectic the refififofT T ° rl0od- Neither can a Patient who is I f a severe injury, bear any loss ofblood H.7 dlsease or excited during the progress I renous blood suddenly escaping mavheflT6 "" fmputa‘I.0“ 5three or four ounces of fieHe reasons bleeding from th^veins i^notlo bn thougf t JighUy nnd^hercfbre com-890 AMPUTATION BY THE CIRCULAR CUT. (/) Above cited, P- **• , , I pression by the thumbs is better than the tourniquet, as it checks the great flow of blocwil « to the limb, and does not prevent the return, by the veins, of that blood which has mad its way by the side channels, which cannot be closed more by the tourniquet than thev are by the thumbs. Some Surgeons advise tying the principal artery first before am., putating, if the limb be removed near the trunk, and it cannot be doubted this is thh safest method; I have done this on two or three occasions; but at other times have taken up the artery directly it was cut through and afterwards finished the operation and upon the whole I think this is the better practice of the two, when there seems to lx a necessity for either.—J. F. S.] 2682. The formation of such wound that the bone can be property covered with soft parts, it has, in general, been attempted to effect in twc ways, a. by cutting circularly into the soft parts doivn to the bone, oi Amputation by the circular cut (Amputation durch der Zirkelschnitt Germ. ; Amputation circulaire, Fr.) ; and p. by separating the soft parti from the bone in shape of a flap, or Amputation with a flap (Lappen-* amputation, Germ.; Amputation a lambeaux, Fr.) 2683. History presents many modes of meeting the just-mentioned re- quirements by the circular cut. Celsus (a) had already expressly directed that the skin and muscles should at one stroke be cut into down to the bone, that they should be well drawn up, and be again divided from the bone higher up, so that the bone might be covered and union of the parts, drawn over it, might be effected. At a later period, however, this direction was so considerably departed from, that the skin and muscles being merely!]™ drawn up, were divided down to the bone with one circular cut, and thM bone sawn off. 2684. The impossibility, by this method, of drawing the divided parts' over the bone and covering it, necessarily rendered this a violent proceed- ing, the suppuration was always considerable, the bone stuck out, or wasr only partially covered, and a bad scar was formed. For these reasons, - various modes were tried to save as much skin and muscular substance ast would be sufficient for the due and perfect covering of the stump. 2685. Here belong the various methods of dividing the skin and muscles ■ in different steps and with several cuts. Petit (6) divided the skin with a circular cut down to the muscles, separated it a little more, drew it back, cut through the muscles at the edge of the skin so drawn back, and« after sawing through the bone, covered the surface of the wound with tn • skin which had been saved. With this agreed the later P™ct,®e ° Mynors (c), who considered a pad of flesh unnecessary ; he divided tne skin with a circular cut, dissected it off to a proper distance, and cu through the mass of muscle vertically down to the bone. ' ery receI\**, Brunningiiausen (rf) has followed a similar practice, except that io not divide the skin by one circular, but by two semicircular cuts, an . sects them back so as to form two semilunar flaps; the muscles are cut through vertically to the bone. . the 2686. For the purpose of making a wound with a conical surface upper part of which is the bone, Louis (c) has directed cutting throug the skin and superficial muscles with the first cut, to draw them bac'> uie sftiu auu —— — , . at their edge to cut through the deep muscles down to the bone. Alanboh (/) proposed a particular mode of forming a coni«> iYLANSOJN (/I pivpwvaa ~ r , , . 1 „ tjpna- surface, to make which when the skin is divided by a ^rcukr cut ^ rated from the muscles and turned back, the knife must be so placet (a) De Medicinfi, lib. vii. cap. xxxiii. "' Trait.1 lies Maladies Chirurgicalcs, vol. ill. p. lot). Above cited, p. 19. (c (d) Above cited. (c) Above cited, p. a«.FLAP-AMPUTATIONS. 891 its edge is directed obliquely upwards and inwards, and whilst carrying it round the whole limb in this direction, all the muscles are cut through to the bone, so that a hollow wound is formed, at the top of which the bone is sawn off. In practice, however, it is found impossible to carry the knife in a circle round the limb as directed, as it cannot travel except in a spiral line (a). This method, therefore, found but few adherents (b), and was set aside by other manoeuvres, by which a conical wound surface could be formed in the muscular substance. 2687. According to Gooch and Bell (e), the skin and muscl eshould be divided with one circular cut down to the bone, then the knife thrust in about an inch higher between the muscle and the bone and carried round, and lastly, the bone sawn through still higher than the cut through the muscles. Desault (d) cut through the muscles layer by layer, always allowing one to retract before he cut through another, and so proceeded till he reached the bone. Richter (e) practised a similar method with his fourfold circular cut, in which, with the first circular cut he divided the skin, which he allowed to retract, and at its retracted edge, with three several circular cuts he reached the bone; in doing this, the divided layer of muscles retracted, and those still remaining were cut through higher up. Boyer (/) divides the skin with the first circular cut, and by a second half through the superficial muscles, and on their retraction cuts through the deep layer, and finishes by dividing with a bistoury the remaining fibres attached to the bone, together with the ■periosteum. 2688. Graefe (g) again takes up Alanson’s notion of a funnel-shaped cut with one stroke of the knife, and manages it with a sort of leaf- shaped knife, (Blattmesser,) the blade of which is bellied in front, and becomes narrower and narrower towards the handle. When the skin has been divided with one circular cut and drawn back, the bellied part of the knife is placed on its edge with the cutting part obliquely upwards, carried with a single stroke in this direction around the whole limb, and the muscles are thus cut through to the bone. 2689. Dupuytren (/*), for the purpose of diminishing the pain in the iiidivision of the skin and muscles, employed Celsus’s method (par. 2683.) »: An assistant drew the skin well back, and he then divided the skin and A'muscles at one stroke to the bone ; the muscles hereupon retract, and those ’till remaining attached are cut through higher, so that in this way a 1 conical wound is produced. Wilhelm operates in like manner (i). lp 269°- In the history of the circular cut the proposals of Valentin and r portal to prevent the projection of the bone must also be mentioned ; Recording to the former, the muscles should each time be cut through in heir greatest degree of extension, according to the latter, just the con- Krarv. J rrary. I 2691. Flap-Amputations were first invented by Lowdham (/^) in the I ^60 andesbero, Rriefe, vol. ii. part i. p 21. Operations qui leur conviennent, vol. v--3^u.an,oviKK’i I 1)0 novfl Araputatione Paris, 1822-26. Third Edition. , . Jen®, 1784. f W Above cited, p. 240. W Above cited, p. 276. 3 iol 1. Mr?$niSCU "ni' c','rurgisclie Bcmcrkungen, ■ I (■/*) Traite des Maladies Chirurgicales et les p. 156. ird Edition. (o) Above cited, pi. vii. lig. 6, 7. (/i) SAiiATiKR, Medecine Operatoire, vol. iv. p. 471. 1824. New Edition.—Dueuytiien, above cited, vol. iii. p. 233. (0 Klinlsclie Chirurgie, vol. i. Miinchen, 1830. (/<) Yonok’s Currus triumplialis e terebintliina. London, 16/9.VARIOUS MODES OF AMPUTATION. 892 seventeenth century ; in amputating the leg, he made, from the calf, a pil ji low in shape of a flap, for the purpose of covering the stump. Verduxn (a t S and Sabourin (b) afterwards arrogated this discovery. Flap amputations 4* restricted by their inventor to the leg, were applied to the thigh also by j Ravaton (c) and Vermale (d), and with them commenced Amputatioi 1 with two flaps. They always made use of flaps, in doing which, the knife I was thrust through the whole mass of limb to the bone, carried some dis-*B tance beyond it, and then the parts divided outwards. Langenbeck (e) j forms flaps, either one or two, by a deep cut from without, inwardaj towards the bone. Upon flap-amputations may further be consulted Salzmann, De novo Amputationis Methodo. Argent., 1722. La Faye, Histoire de 1’Amputation suivant la Methode de Verduxn et Sabourin; in | Memoires de l’Acad. de Chirurg., vol. ii. p. 243. Garengeot; in same, p. 261. O’Haluoran, A Complete Treatise on Gangrene and Sphacelus; with a new Method - of Amputation. London, 1765. 8vo. Siebold, Dissert, de Amputatione Femoris cum relictis duobus carnis segmentise Wirceb., 1782. 2692. Pott’s (f) method must be considered as a compound of the circular and flap operations, he cut into the muscle first on the one, and then on the other side obliquely from below upwards, and thus formed a wedge-like wound. Siebold’s (g) proposal corresponds to it, and con- sists, after cutting through and drawing back the skin, in making the cut through the muscles obliquely upwards, first on the outer, and then on the inner side, by which a wound is formed as in Pott’s method. Here also- belongs Schreiner’s (h) plan of dividing the skin and muscles with one circular cut down to the bone, and then by cutting upwards on each side with a bistoury to the bone, forming two flaps, which he separated from the bone, and sawed the latter off’ in the angle. Herewith must also be placed the modes of proceeding which, by Lax- genbeck and Scoutetten, are confined to disarticulations, the oi-al cut also < used in amputating the continuity of the limb, the oblique cut of Sedillot, Baudens, and Malgaigne, the sloping cut of Blasius (i) ; in making i which, the soft parts are divided in an oblique surface, or in form of the mouth-piece of a clarionet, or in the form of so that the point o tie cut is on the front of the limb, a little above the part where the bone is sawn through, and the rather rounded base is behind and below. Sedillot, Baudens, and Malgaigne, divide in this way, the skin alone, separate i , and divide the muscles higher with the circular cut. Blasius, wit a peculiar knife makes two cuts through the soft parts, which both pass obliquely to the long and thick diameter of the limb, and unite at their end, by which a wound is made, presenting an obliquely cut out funnel or cornet, and has close below the place of division of the bone, a re-entering, (a) Epistola de nova Artuum decurtandornm ratione. Amstel., 1696. (b~) Manoetti, Bibliotheca Chirurgica, vol. ii. (/) Above cited, p. \,55 fol Salzburg. Med.- (c) Le Da an, Traitc des Operations de Clii- rurgie, p. 564. Paris, 1742. (fl) Observations de Chirurgie pratique, pre- cedees d’une Nouvelle Methode d'Amputation. Mannheim, 1767. (e) Bibliothek fur die Chirurgie, vol. ui. part n. vol. tv. part iii. ( f) Above cited, p. _ . «. (y) Salzburg. Med.-Cliirurg. Zeitung, p. 44. 1S12. (h) Above cited, p. 162. ..,;nns (i7 Der Schragschnitt, Eine neue Ampu Methode, u. s. tv. Berlin, r .ion -- Chirurgie, vol. iii. p. 377. Sec<m<' Oppf.nheim’s Zcitschrift furdiegesammteMedecin Jan., 1843; p. 10-893 USE OF THE SAW. /\ shaped angle to the wound, and two-thirds or the whole of the diameter of the limb lower, a projecting V shaped lip to the wound, which in closing the wound, drops into each corner, but can never be brought directly opposite. 2693. When the muscles have been tints divided down to the bone, they are held back by an assistant with a cleft cloth (1), at the edge of which the muscular fibres connected with and also projecting from the bone, and the periosteum, are divided with a circular cut. The left thumb-nail is now placed close to the face of the stump, for the purpose of guiding the saw, which at first and towards the last, when the bone is nearly sawn through, must be moved more slowly, and with shorter strokes (2). Whilst the sawing is in progress, the assistant who holds the limb must not move it either up or down, because in the former case he fixes the saw, and in the latter, breaks the bone. If any bony points remain, they must be cut off with the bone-nippers, or removed with a file or a fine saw. The cleft cloth to keep the muscles back, is better than the retractors of Bell and Klein. Scraping off the periosteum is superfluous. Walther and Br'cjnninghausen divide the periosteum by a circular cut about half an inch below where the bone is to be sawn through, and turn it up, so that after the sawing, the end of the bone may be covered by it. They imagine that it promotes union! 3 The saw commonly in use is the bone-saw, or Pott’s plate-saw. [(0 I do not think there is any great advantage gained by using the cleft cloth, and ry rarely employ it; as, by passing the thumb and forefinger on either side of the bone or bones, and pressing the palm of the hand and ball of the thumb against the surface of the stump, the soft parts can be pressed well back, and out of the way of the Sa7^WTh.'Chnh0U vbe applJed as closely as possible, to the cut ends of the muscles. , wl11 n°l J36 superfluous to say a few words about the use of the saw, which is weUa,eQ W0,'fTX surfPcal instruments. A good saw should have its teeth .and ' i? ’, , i carpenter s expression is, that it may neither clog nor hang in its track • ■ and it should have, proportionally to its size, a heavy back, which renders its steadying more easy, and affords all the weight the saw requires to be loaded with Tlie^ too ^frequent mode of using the saw, is to drop its end, whilst the handle is raised so that * when moved it works obliquely ; the operator, at the same time, throwingas much o£ 0 his own weight as he can conveniently spare upon the handle, as if with the inten 0 t on of forcing the blade of the saw at one or two strokes through the bone and then n ,driving it downwards and upwards, as violently and quickly as he can, and often usinn ■« cons1 as mUC-h °L the, t00thcd edee as a young violinist does of his fiddle-bow The E " i,iUenct‘, the saw works badly, is continually jumping out of its track makes KST' and firhmS by splintcrme the bone’ and often cutting through it below where ^ «oTk .(1P LrP°S ; 7° USG • SaW properly- ft should always, where possible, be held and ■T°rieJ horizontally, moving it forwards and backwards without any pressure of the "'!’bu a,ll0W,n? n,ere]y.Its own weight to keep it on the appointed pkce and as it atis moved forwards, even its own weight should be lessened 1™ ’ aD<1 5S 11 ^instead of pressing down the saw. After drawing the toothed e’dmfflrsf 1 'l supp°rtlng> fcrlgMh^thigS or ^nlbone,* more quickly and^ore ^cleanly l'™ wi" of“,lin,c™e "i“p“g”rZ 1 Kwh«l“^ T7 7eitically is WeferMe to horizontally; “ for HtetuS^bV'i"5 4hon“Sd"e<1pJS! I“ U“b 1™* bely Ih/pSnSe ,he '™r P*r‘ of (a) Elements of Surgery,894 TYING OF ARTERIES. I do not think there is more danger in giving the lower part of the limb to an assi- |(| tant than the upper; for if the operator hold the lower end, the last portion of th>U bone is just as likely to be snapped through by the muscles above, when they begin t [• t'r. lose the counterpoise of the limb below, if not specially guarded against. This I hav j i| seen, again and again, in amputation through the thigh, that when the bone has bee«H" sawn through steadily, and without a splinter, the moment the saw has passed through** - up jumps the stump. One point, however, should never be forgotten, to wit, that immediately the soft partr*® : are completely divided, the assistant should grasp the limb below, as near as possible t f A the place of sawing; and if he have from circumstances, grasped the bone or bone-Uj below that which will be sawn through, he should change his grasp, and fix it o> h| the end of the bone just about to be cut through. This specially applies when1'* amputation is performed for diseases of joints, as then the joint is too tender to permi... being taken hold of, till its nerves have been divided by the cuts of the operation.—a J. F? S.] 2694. After the bone has been sawn through, the divided vessels mus t, be tied, according to the rules already given (par. 291.) The principal artery is to be first tied, and afterwards the smaller ones. For this pur-j pose, it is not necessary to relieve the pressure on the arteries, so that tilt mouths of the vessels should be seen by the spouting of the blood ; anatom mical knowledge must here guide the operator. All the spouting vessel* ' having been tied, warm water must be allowed to flow over the wound to ascertain whether there be any little vessel still bleeding. The more carefully the vessels are tied, the, less need is there for the application ol cold water, which is generally only necessary when there is trickling oi blood from vessels which cannot be distinguished, so as to ensure the patient against after-bleeding. _ The best material for ligatures is round, not very thick, but sufficiently strong silk threads ; either both ends of which may be cut off close to the knot,° or only one is cut off at the knot, and the remaining one led the nearest way out to the surface of the wound, where it must be fixed to the skin with sticking plaster (par. 293.) What has been already said (par. 297) in reference to torsion, applies here. In the history of amputation, the mode of stanching the blood is of the greatest im- portance, as its well-doing and less danger are in the closest relation with the niannerin which the stanching of the blood is effected. Before Ambrose Pare, m 1582, re- employed the separate tying of vessels, already known, from Galen and Aetius, scons endeavoured to stanch the bleeding with boiling oil and pitch, nito which tde> stump was plunged, or with the actual cautery j or the amputation was performed w in a red-hot knife. Tying the arteries at first met with violent opposition, and but ttw supporters (Guillemeau, De La Motte, and others.) From the absence of ■ 1»®“ tion against bleeding, together with the unfitting form of Ae ligature instrui practice of tying the arteries was very difficult, and the bleeding rendered amputation dangerous, on which account, in many cases, it was not undertaken. nh on k. tion of the tourniquet, by Morel, in 1674, and its improvement by Petit, amputation become more general. For the stanching of bleeding, however, ie button, actual cautery, the stick, and tourniquet, were still used in preference, dread of cutting through the artery in tying it when isolated, led to tying “*a^hing passing the ligature through it, till this, as well as all the earlier modes of stan .K the blood, yielded completely to tying the vessel alone. It is incomprehensibleJ*®4 the present time there should still be some, who, instead of the simple and safe Fct he of tying, employ the constant application of cold water; or in hap-amputan s. ^ compression of the principal arteries in the flap against the bony stump, and reemnmend it () n amputation .g not alwa ,s fronl the arteries, but .wrn^nws ,b„l„gh .l" h.™ been tied, aid the .onrniqne. ,.ke« off ami —« jJJ the tourniquet has not been used, the larger veins pour out, and will not tic er f,,') Koch, De praistantissima Amputationis me- tliodo. Landsch., 1826. On the contrary, com- pare von Graefe ; in his lournsl fur CHirurgk unil Atigcnhcilkunde, vol. *»• P-895 AFTER-TREATMENT. (a) Above cited, p. 411. as they usually can be by pressure for a few minutes with the finger. Under such circumstances, they must be tied without hesitation, and generally no evil results follow. One of my late colleagues, Tyrrell, always tied the veins at once, if they seemed disposed to bleed. I have tied the femoral vein many times, and in but a single case with ill consequence; the patient had inflammation and pus in the iliac vein ; but as this occasionally happens, without a ligature having been applied, it may be questionable, whether the ligature was the cause of the mischief or not.— J. F. S.] 2695. When the vessels are all properly tied, after the wound is cleansed from blood, and the surrounding parts are dried, the dressing must be pro- ceeded zvith, which effects the cure of the wound, either by quick union, or by suppuration and granulation. Many Surgeons leave the wound open from six to teu hours, and during this time cover it with sponge or compresses, dipped in cold water, for the purpose of thus guard- ing against after-bleeding. Dupuytren (a) specially advised this mode of treatment, and followed it in all cases. The advantage of this proceeding is, that if an after- Si !i ens.ue’ ^ie v^ssel caii be at once tied. Small retracted vessels, generally, do not I bleed, even if some time be occupied with the operation ; they are retracted among the • spasmodically contracted parts, but some hours after when this condition subsides or ‘ there is a greater flow of blood to the wound, they begin to bleed. If the dressing h’ave been applied, the bleeding is first noticed, when it becomes completely penetrated by i the blood. The wound is filled with clotted blood, which renders the discovery of the vessels very difficult. I have treated in this way those cases only where peculiar cir- ; cumstances afforded the probability of an after-bleeding; as a general practice, how- ever, I do not think it advantageous. [Chelius's opinion on this subject is most certainly correct, the exposure of the sur- ; lace of the stump should be the exception and not the rule; and if practised, should not be continued more than three or four hours, within which time, with due attention the patients warmth and circulation will generally have recovered the immediate shock • ot the operation and the clots in the little vessels will either have been forced out or ecome so completely fixed as to prevent bleeding. The practice sometimes adopted of covering the whole face of the stump with a thick wad of lint dipped in water kneading jn’ an« Ieavmg it on for twelve or fourteen, or even twenty-four hours is bad - as uunng this time the adhesive matter is poured out, and instead of sticking the surface drffifflthenW°Undi t0guther’ Stlcks the lmt t'gkt’y on. so that it can only be removed with Uittculty and with great pain to the patient, and indeed, imperfectly, as the fluffy part fnV»hh remal"s tangled in the surface of the stump, the whole of which must there- elL fred by suPPuratlon befo,,e union can take place. If the Surgeon will or no CL ° l k S,tU.“P T,n’ and WU1 apply C0ld water t0 if’ lineu " Inch has little „..JforP ! e bela,ld hehtly over it and not. kneaded in, and frequently replaced J the k. firm y; h?1 a lght sponge 1S stiU better‘ Some practitioners^leave I Stu.mP e?p"sed> not merely to guard against after-bleeding, but because they fancv ■the union will be better if the surface of the wound have first glazed with the adhesive p1 f“"d m"d‘ *“""*«• S*i~dgb? etp”^s ^ 2696. To promote quick union, after the circular cut, an expulsive Jandage is put on, from the upper part of the stump nearly to the^nd of - ( he sawn oft bone; the edges of the wound are brought together in such I'”'" “i *?• ?rm » verlic“' «Wt O). andSi„ tluf position are . he ti stnPs sticking plaster, passed from one side of the stump to iaid iIlThpSOrhaVt ,e TUind iS COmpIetely covered. Upon the plaster is JLhich is fasterm?10-?! °f 1,e W0UIId.? Fidget, and over it a wad of lint, Cenir! ,! } ‘ an°mpi;eS3 laul crossways over the stump, with some The toi ° Ur|IS- a ? m a S0 made to pass over the face of the stump. fe)Sdfno. TUb 13 apphed Ioosel1y> 80 as to compress the artery in case of > he cnt°si. f. K P& ie?-t '? P,U.t V* ^ed’tbe stuniP so placed upon a pillow, that • f.-i cradled 'r TT? little higher than the nearest joint, and protected (by J1 ) o that it be not pressed by the bedclothes. On account of the896 TREATMENT disposition to cold shivering, the patient should be covered up warmly, and take a cup of warm tea, or broth. The application of the sticking plaster over the expulsive bandage, is preferable to that of putting on the plaster first and the bandage after, because the plaster keeps more firm, does not so easily shift, and does not so readily excite erysipelatous inflammation of the skin (2). I have never noticed, from completely covering up the wound with plaster, any inconvenience from collection of the secretions of the wound; whilst indeed the edges of the wound as they swell, protrude irregularly, and often are completely stran- gulated if a space be left uncovered between two pieces of sticking plaster (3). [(1) With regard to the direction in which the edges of the wound should be brought together, it is questionable whether the vertical one is the best, or whether the hori- zontal one be not preferable ; I have tried both again and again, and I am rather more inclined to bring the edges together in a horizontal line, especially in amputations on the lower limb, because without effort and simply by the position on its hind surface, on which the stump rests, the soft parts are kept closer together, whilst if the edges be brought together vertically, the resting part of the stump necessarily tends to keep the cut surfaces asunder. It may be objected, that the horizontal fitting together does not encourage the escape of the fluid from the stump so much as when the edges are brought together vertically, and renders the bagging of matter and sinuses more likely, but this is not the case, and when it happens, depends more commonly on the carelessness with which the after-dressings are made. I have, however, seen many very good stumps made in both ways. (2) Chelius’s recommendation of, and reason for, applying a bandage first, and the plaster after are very good, but it must not be supposed a long bandage should be applied; a covering to the stump a single turn thick, is all that is proper or necessary to bring - the soft parts well down to the end of the sawn bone, but more than this heats the stump. I do not agree with him in covering the whole face of the stump with plaster, the less of this the better, provided the object of keeping the skin close upon the face of the stump be effected; but I have not generally noticed the protrusion of the swelling J edges between the gaps of the plaster, unless the plaster have been too tightly applied, ij which however is often done, and the lips of the wound dragged together as tightly as possible, a proceeding bad, painful and useless, and generally consequent on too little 4 skin having been saved so that the edges will not, if the wound be properly dressed, come together at all. It should be remembered, that the plaster is not to pull the wounded surfaces together, but merely to support them when they are fitted together. 1 « think it therefore better not to fix one end of the strip of plaster on one side, carry it ■ s the face of the stump, drag the edges of the wound together, and fix the other end across the other side, but whilst an assistant gently brings the edges of the wound together UI1 II1C UlllCl o J c> o , , ,l - with the finger and thumb of each hand above and below, to place the middle oi we o . , - this plaster strap across it, and then run the ends up along the sides of the stump; brings the cut surfaces into better contact, and gives all the support necessary without . giving the patient pain. The first strap should be put on the middle of the stump, an one or two above and below it, a quarter of an inch apart, that whatever fluid oozes out may readily escape, for otherwise, in nine cases out of ten, most certainly quick of the cut surfaces will be interfered with, if not prevented, and the wound will ha c unite by granulation, and not be cured within eight or ten weeks, instead of three.g ^ ir as commonly, and sometimes in a fortnight as I have not unfrequen11 y seen. ^ to four CIO V U111 111 WII Ij , U1IU ovmvbiiiivw * ( *#* *1*T AAT1 to the protrusion of the swollen edges of the wound, when this happens it is east J trolled either by merely snipping the tight strap a little, near the wound, or by cu s it across just at the edge of the circular bandage, the plaster with wlncli it is SP being softened by the warmth of the stump readily, in the course of a few minutes a the strap to move down and the swelling disappears. . . fmIlch As to the plaster for dressing stumps, provided it be not stimulating, it is not °i_ whichever is chosen. That commonly used in our Hospital pra js*soap phister with a little resin, to make jt more sticky; but I prefer^kincens« alone. Ti Tyrrell thought equal parts of soap plaster and compound frankmcc^ plaster made the best dressing. Liston prefers a solution of isinglass in sp’r'^ ’ snread on oiled silk ; and Torboch, of Sunderland, recommends caoutchouc we • •L of which are said to be capable, from their elasticity, of yielding to the swelling » ^ the wound. The fact is, however, that it is matter of little consequence wnai if it do not irritate, and the Surgeon may follow liis own fancy. ^ p]astcr (3) Covering up a stump with pledgets and compress and roller, DUj.alion. applied, is better left alone, as they heat the stump and encourage sui p strips are " -/ r.T897 AFTER AMPUTATION. The stump should be kept as cool as possible, and when the patient is in bed, it is a very good practice to lay a thin, cold, wet linen rag lightly over the stump, and repeatedly renew it. The cradle (4) also, should be merely covered with a sheet, though the patient's trunk and other limbs should be sufficiently covered to keep him warm, without making him hot. (4) Cradles are generally made of half circles of stiff iron wire, the ends of which are fixed firmly in two pieces of wood, about eighteen inches or two feet long, as a base, above which the wires rise about twelve or eighteen inches, and support the bed-clothes away from the limb. As the comfort to the patient from the use of this apparatus is great, and it cannot always be obtained in country practice, directly when wanted, it is well to know how to make a substitute or makeshift. A common-sized, flat wash- tub hoop, sawn across, and each half sawn down the middle, furnishes the arches, two, three, or more, as may be needed, and these, having their ends nailed to a lathe on each side, make a very good cradle.—J. F. S.] 2697. The dressing after flap-amputation is to be put on in the same way, excepting that if but one flap be made, it must be laid over the surface of the wound, and its edge fitted closely to the corresponding j edge of the skin with sticking plaster and compresses, applied in the direction of the flap, and kept in place by a bandage, of which several •turns should pass over the front of the flap. If the amputation be with two flaps, both their surfaces must be brought together, and their edges made to fit completely, and so kept with the dressings already directed. Union of an amputation wound with sutures I consider injurious. t [I do not think it of much consequence whether sutures be used or not, in bringing ■ the edges of the wound together; sometimes I use them, sometimes not, as I feel ■(disposed at the time; but I have never seen any inconvenience arise from their em- n ployment, and therefore the Surgeon, I think, may use his own discretion, in regard. to Hhran.—J. F. S.] 6 ! 2698. If the amputation wound be to be cured by suppuration and granulation, then, after having put on the expulsive bandage, a pledget Ipread with mild ointment must be inserted between the edges, straps i >f plaster laid transversely across, to bring its edges together, and after- wards a compress and bandage, as already mentioned. [I can scarcely imagine a case in which this treatment of a stump can be called for. 'ccasionally, indeed, it happens that the surface of a stump will become sloughy, nd then must unite by granulatiou ; but to make a positive determination to promote lion by granulation from the first, can hardly be warranted under any circumstances. -J. F. S.J 2699. The further treatment of the patient and of the wound must be -inducted according to the rules laid down for wounds in general. The accidents which may ensue after amputation are, after-bleeding, olent inflammation, erythism, torpor, gangrene, very copious secretion id bagging of matter, nervous symptoms, protrusion of the bone, suppu- tion, and exfoliation of its edge, and ulceration of the soft parts. 2700. The patient should observe the strictest bodily and mental quiet, n the first day he should take merely a little broth and almond milk. An Instant conversant with the use of the tourniquet should be near him ; Td dressings and every necessary for tying vessels should be in the bed- -infflamber. |df nothing untoward occur, if the general reaction keep up, and if in B-stump inflammation ensue within the bounds necessary for the union J't ie wound, the dressing may be left till fouled by the discharge front I" W0U['d, or its renewal on account of ill smell be required. If the dis- wirge be very slight, it often dries up quickly, and the dressings may V,°L' "• 3 M(a) Dresdner Zcitschrift fur Natur und Hcilkunde, vol. iv. paI't ih- 89B TREATMENT OF be left off in the third week, when, after removing the first dressing, I have found the wound completely healed. t , I In taking off the dressings, all its clinging portions should be wefcl softened with lukewarm water, and in doing this, as well as in re-applyujl the dressing, dragging the ligature-threads should be carefully avoided,] I Every day, or every other day, or still less frequently, according to th quantity of discharge, should the dressing in this way be replaced. If an parts remain ununited, the clotted blood or the pus must be emptied b Untie pressure. On the seventh or eighth day, it may be attempted U remove the ligatures on the small vessels with a gentle pull, and those o the larger ones towards the twelfth and sixteenth. They, however, oftei remain for a longer time, being held fast by the granulations ; the ligatu must then be twisted between the fingers, and pulled at the same I have never seen inconvenience from the ligatures being long le am The same plan is to be continued till the scarring of the wound be com pleted ; and for some weeks after, the stump must be covered up, and thl scar protected from the dragging of the muscles with a bandage artificial leg can only be fitted when the scar has become quite touah an. the eda-e of the bone is rounded. . , ~ The io-eneral treatment must depend on the different periots o 1 H and according to the condition of the general health. Proper regntatto, of the diet, if no particular symptoms occur, renders the use of medtcin in most cases superfluous. . . . more than make a gentle pull upon it, for Ik easily, it is better t greater energy. If the ligature .thereplanter on the sid fasten its end to a tlnn piece of whalebone, hxe the gentle and constar and bent over the face of the s ump, so as to foi m a spring S three d pull which this makes, generally brings the ligatuie away in J P g j ' 2701. Should after-bleeding occur, it must be managed as. .ta-J directed in the treatment of wounds in general (pai. 31—) • ti) considerable, but from small vessels le^irf«<!»^ff^ tourniquet must be screwed tight, and co r ,f it'le from thebraiiche for some time. But if the bleeding bei greater,^ f ‘ =°'' 0 « " h I of an artery, or from the trunk itself, then aftei the tourmq 0 properly tightened, the dressing must be removed the wound el ^ 1 the clotted blood, and the bleeding vessel tied. 1^ • Jlnfnl.r 11 noil til the clotted blood, ancl the oieeomg ] upon th sponge dipped in ice-cold water must be applied urn ledw-- powden, wound, and pressure also made upon it. 1 lugs strew ei w * '.^eful (1). 11 and bound on with a compressive bandage may also be here u^fU jf(h the after-bleeding come on with smart le\er, wit hv a free blood arteries, and great heat in the stump, it may often be staj ed bj leUin(T, and by continued cold applications to the stump. of th If the bleeding happen later, and cannot be stanched j fth abovelmentioeed means, which is usually wound are for the most part united, or the walls of the ar ure, (h of theirTnflammatory condition, baffle the operation of any ligature,AFTER-BLEEDING. 899 trunk of the vessel must be cut down upon and tied at some distance from the seat of amputation (2). This practice is simple and safe as the e^ The nDfTREN’ ?£LPECH> ZANG’ and m3r®elf have proved P the actual canary (3)Z^^r\mi\modenitB Pressure i and even part, resorted to V) & 6 ai'tery ab°Ve the bleedhl= tapTSs^ .plication of the actual cauterv or tvino- ?i’10 • n£ i cumins, if this happen, but smart ap- [(1) I do not think theSStSn of ?toSI"?,trUnk ab°Je amputation (b) P is the blood will find its wav into thn • lmquet to arrest bleeding is advantageous f the bleeding occur within a few hours^after th will bleed. But I think if best,’ hldely, and clear away every particle of clotted hi f aPeiatlon> tp open the stump com- the chinks between the muscles If this be done and ?h fPecially>to get it out of a] 1 ord,ti“ "d >» ee»™iil.^ tM “ “ *»»<* ,Jt the bleeding is at first so alarming as to warrant!? , / does I10t often happen !e several times seen bleeding occur two or th,!,! ?• dl,stu!'blng the stump; for I “d yet, merely by keeping the natienf as In tlmes during the course of cure ump cool, no f£tberPmfschie/fnsues BuT wh en ^Tr™" pe™t, and the hh”’ a,i!d lncreases >n quantity, there is always reason to bleed,nf recurs again and ■thin the walls of the stump into which fil m i SUSpect that there is a cavity P- of the clot therein keeps np the bleeding ??,S’ a!ld that ‘he irrita- •ntly insinuated between the edges of the wound ti ll\h!em pl'.obabS'<:> the finger must be .yden?fT!s km proceeding puts an end to the h * exP0Sed to the air, and often this ,s« r &xz& w. »»«. some da), fc (p“r-302’ nolf-)~J- F. S.] P CG- S°me exanlples °p it I have Already ■Proper thCCld^, it.must be red««ed i^(l applications, and by keenW tv * tI,e dressing-, by continual |S° Feat, that it is accompanied with nmeh V™1* • If the indai™tion , o the patients constitution a ZaZt*??’ re(?uire’^cord- " { there be an erythet.ic condition7 r*‘pMogulie treatment. /3lt,ve Persons, in which the stumo is^ ,ial’liens witi> very Ucber Nachw t P Gry tender’ Painfully tense, and 3 m 2900 TREATMENT OF PARTICULAR CONDITION'S burning, the heat much raised, the redness of the edges of the skin an. jl wound°very slight, the patient exceedingly restless, the pulse contracted and quick, and the countenance anxious, ice-cold water must be applied tu* the stump, till the heat be diminished, and internally aqua lauro-cerasoM opium with nitre, almond milk, oily mixtures and purgative clyster^ must be given, and the patient should take light nourishing food. It th I inflammation be accompanied with erythism, leeches and emulsions with! camphor and nitre must be employed. ■ The cause of death after amputation, is not unfrequently inflammation of the vessels * in some cases the veins, in others the arteries are m darned, often cn en to the lieart an * sometimes filled with pus. In such instances, the stump is excessively tender, accom panied with severe shiverings, and very depressing sweats. Local bloodletting and col j applications, with calomel internally, must be here used. 2703. An insufficient degree of inflammation, or a torpid state, in w hicl j the stump is little or not at all painful, the wannth little, even less than* natural, the wound flabby and pallid, with a frequent secretion of serouj or clammy ichor, the patient very much depressed, and the pulse ler small, weak, and quick, requires both a general and 'oc'ai M^ngthemnt and exciting mode of treatment. The stump must be bathed with spi rituous aromatic remedies, covered with aromatic poultices, mixed vy U camphor, the dressings moistened with spirit of camphor, or of tmpenti the edges of the wound washed with them, and some even injected into it 2704. Sloughing requires various treatment according to its caus . ^2705. In copious suppuration, strengthening remedies must he both internally and externally. If collections of pus form, its free escap* should to the utmost be provided for. With this view a partt of t lei not being drawn together with sticking plaster, the pus should be en p by moderate pressure and injections, and a proper bandage applied. It i ^rSr^r^“the result of an improperly per formed operation, in which too little soft parts are p«jrvec^ with difficulty drawn over the bone; or copious suppuration a 1 state come J, in wUch the muscles anti retract. In the former case, if the muscular surface itself * ject in a rounded form, nothing can be done but wai mg fo^tl e(,^ an, tion of the bone, to promote which, the marrow the pfojectin} a bougie dipped in spirits of wine, thrust m o i s . j the super bone must be sawn off. But if the muscular mass do protrude h p» ficial muscles must be pressed back, a portion of those * j, bone removed, and the bone itself sawn off at th® nectt > £lt fron the latter case, I have almost invariably fserved a fatal reS|^ . wasting suppuration. Proper general and local treatment o ^ I state and when it is removed, and the soft parts have no PI j, | selves over the bone, which, however, I have frequently noticed to* o « above-mentioned destruction of the marrow m the proje^.gP^ tfc J bone, for the purpose of encouraging its e^oUation, ^ * 1 hmip is the only thing which can be done, 1 uJimg the pro, £ muscles and skin, by bandaging, will not in this»case FJ' ^ imidl trusion of the bone ; on the contrary every b...c age w hmh » as , pressure, and draws the parts together renders increases the consuming suppuration and the wasting < - PAFTER AMPUTATION. 901 amputation, as, although^ morefrequency'arises'fromrtTc'consec!uences of Cheuus, yet it occasionally happens when aIttmuT Cf mentioned by ample covering of soft parts had been preserved nftor °f the °Peraf5on an afterwards, and the wound reauirino- V ftei-bleeding comes on some days more, the ’soft »» °"c?•'°r twice- - «"£ protrudes. Or sometimes, though there be nlentv nf situation, and the bone beeu too tightly applied, and the soft parts Ling p^s^bv it S® may have even although the mischief be quickly discovered^ th* the bone> s!oilgh, hation, however, is not alw,rc 1., d a c the pressure removed. Exfo- even =gTthTS^ * over the b^ne, siougn, liation, however, is not alwnvc ti** . ccl anc* t*ie pressure removed. Exfo- vhich a bone protruding half an inch haT nLTo^Tft^V^ have.seen instances in and is also covered by the granulations of the cnft S ,VltaitJ’ but ltself granulates, dressing, heals as well as can be desired though slo dv^wf’l ^ the SblmP’ b-v careful exfoliation does take place it is often p. slowly, and becomes well shaped. When end of the bone, and then scarrfn J ,onn f ^ 1 P0rti.0n of, or a mere ring of the bone dies, to some distance, from the face of the'stum Ut occasiona%. though rarely, the I harcUy, however, recollect an instanceinwhLh P°rti°U is thrown off. excepting retarding; the cure mnr»h Ipcc cq * ^ any uiatenal inconvenience even The wound g^neJlyhS^’^ asmall^ arisen in consequence! there is little trouble^ with it. P 1 g f granulatl°ns around the bone, and CTe6^^ °f eXdting Gxfoliation off the end of the protruded bone as it is ,7 the less severe operation of sawing chief has extended^ The case simply requffs to b/trltT distance the “is® bringing the soft parts forward with Lnde rolling aLl t, ?° b°ne Prot™ded, by [ > Aa thin piece »f «>» -rf-ce, or i s usually removed by absorption ;’in the tatteT'it'evfV.!' ? "eerosed P‘?“ nne the openin'*- leadin'*- to tbo hnno , y exfoliates, up to which r ions made, and°when the separation is"!''" d"ly open’ mild mjec- 6 [Sometimes very enormous Ses of motr H ? be pull*d out. om a considerable distance beyond tlie face of thtf st ^ ex^bllate’ being thrown off > fuseum a piece nine inches long, which “nS awavfrZ u is in St‘ Thomas’s ' recollect seeing this removed hv , dwa7 from the stump of a thigh-bone | ress.ng-forceps. The patient had not been’ ftlrftfe^inen*’ ^ se,veral months, with . hq Cmg retal'ded. Such cases are best left to nature “vt,meiiced by it, than by liis > have seen, were left alone, gave the pa ient u, V , leaS[ SOme half dozen cases P»d came away in due time ti, P . • no Pain> did not irritate his constitution sasfcs ’ •" p”'ed“ & *ssss w(2r* I* ,almost invi™% ii eat,nent. Continued su^rlS Stiotf„f T‘ *•,"*» b* P*°P« J'ently the consequence of improper dresthL 5 £•? S°ft parts is fVe' fungous growth from the medullary hole n?n J °fr°° earlJr rem°val. l'ce> in most cases be got rid of by Loner acconllno to my experi- with lunar caustic ; but when any dvsr-r-i'°n!pr?SSIOn> and by touching [fcS'T treatment must »>« employed* ^ “ CUUSal relalion to i£- I station of Ike limbUiltiei^Tn t ^ "T™1 modes °f Proceeding in aerience, prefer amputation byltheci™Shirt .aCd0rdil,S (« my own ‘ JJh»ch the skin is divided L ' f L’ and ,1,at method indeed, ^ed vertically through the L • back’ and at ^ edge the cut ■> scles still rem^inin^attached™^?]68 K °Wn t0 tbe bone’ ^ then the ° 'td t0 the b(,»e c>'t through still higher, ami902 COMPARISON OF THE SEVERAL MODES thus a conical surface of wound formed. The superior advantages ascribe,, to the flap-operation, to wit, a better covering of the s ump with musck, more speedy union, and therewith a shortening o le cu , circular operation just recommended, are groundless. n re er ^ the first point, Brunninghausen (a) makes a remark whmh I have observed, that the covering of the stump with muscle may indeed bt effected at the moment of union and for some time, but that after a longe? period the bone is merely covered with skin (1). On the other hand afte amputating the thigh with merely saving skin, I have never seen prot * of1 thebmie. But it must be held as an objection to flap-operations th tying the vessels which are obliquely cut through, and °ften wounded , several places, is more difficult, and the number of vessels to be tied i always greater than with the circular cut, that the wound » ^ er an therefore, if union do not take place, wasting nipping-ion i ■ ^ be«Ae feared In other respects, I do not consider the dispute as to the pieteienc. of the circular or the flap-operation of so much consequence as many dc L I'am'convinced that 'the* successful result depends not n.erelj- on, th mode of operation, but on the manner of its performance, an -1 ‘ ' the proper conduct of the after-treatment. The flap-operation, ho. eve tTXuys be considered more suitable when the amputation ,s, » firmed at the upper third of the thigh ; when the “be effected. I also admit, that in flap-operations, the knife lesJthan in circular operations, a circumstance oft^oTbone'requirin Surgery, and that, with artificial joints, or fractures fl amputation, there may be advantage m the ,nl * L (1) This observation, as regards both flap and X.‘^ t l nrrIth 0f thne after its con confirmed by every one who examines, a stump a and that it does » plete healing. Although Langenbeckc ’ ^tt n becomes corpulent, and the bo. happen iu his mode ot operating, m which the stu' P th* muscles;” I -uf bein" completely rounded by absorption, cannot p erevery well perform* however, dispute that this thickening of t ic underlying cellular tissue, and it is amputation, but depends only on the kin a d may probably bear th great mistake to refer it to the muscular mass Lasgenb 0f dissect.r hr [’hat the cure of the wound oy aggi.it cure by quick union of the muscular bolster, 1 cannot, troi y „ fhe 0id mode / I\ 1 .... 1.* dirt ck union of the muscular bolster I TO -ode Ti’vtou (cl) has only under certain conditions given preterence treatment with the circular, or does he usually prefer fatter? exclusion of the ci ( Liston is so great an advocate for flup-operation., to 11 ^ latter operatic eular that in his Elements of Surgery, he dots not c , . naDs, is soobvica giving as reasons for its omission, that “ its lnferiorUj o e thc operation is and so generally acknowledged, that detail of the different ste]^ t'he patient,d° ffi W53H '»■ burgh, 1819.—Ki.FIN, above cited, m ion ufaff id moroin . rana.. vol. *vi. p. 1- • " ie der chiniK* (e) Nosolotoe und Therapie r.mhheiten, vol. tv. P- ■ ' ^3. (d) Nene Chiron, vol. >• P-903 OF AMPUTATION OF THE LIMBS. * along with caries of the bones, and partial death of its surface • and at length it necessary either to perform a second amputation, or to curtaU the lenSh of [L bo^ Tt maj sometimes succeed tolerably well when there is hut onp hnno • ,si ,v ne' ^ surface of the flaps is much greater than that in the“IhyoldteTethod“V** fav„rSsS^™LwtciSofTtTe ”d ,he othT: eiT™ *heir nature, and the corresponding dia°' rams^s ac^omP^nyiDg drawings (pp. 770, 71) from flap) method. In the first there k ’ lPc!k prf y Plamly 111 favour of the other (the corresponding hollow and ragged cavity • and The cf/ tbf CUt and muscles> ^ith a triangular surfaces.” (pp 769°70 ) y ’ 1 tbe second set shows two smooth nearly >4= J2KS S525 1 -fob"™' *to* •»*■» r performance of any other than circular aimmt-itinn J 7 1 searcely ever witnessed the ; ugly consequences which Liston has detailed wit'nf6P^ the.fore-arm, and that the ■ attributable to the mode of operation Ofhteven 1 Sreat rarity, ancl not, I believe, *J» among ~s uETSJSj"“""‘WtioM have about the same. I have performed abom’an em fi Wy’i 1 £ relatlve nilml)er is now been so nearly the same, tCn most cases I hard vT f" °f ^ and the resuIt has other. The flap-operations are m^e smm-t kml sb^L ’ o T 1S,t0 be Pre^red to the f result may be as untoward and unsatisfactory as eirentel 1611 Peidor'nance. hut in their be. The true cause of the well or ill doina^of the ^“lar.°Peratl0ns have been stated to 1 improper dressing of the stumn not merel? • t e ,case ls t0 he found in the proper or • the complete union of the wound! Tstummavwf t f ^ °peratiou> to with soft parts at the first dressing yet .f n o t™TY “4 superf3u°u% covered circumstances, the patient have been very restles^ and °r lf Under Peculiar soft parts get displaced, unite awry, and the bone nrotrnd^ 7 the limb> tbe against the soft parts as to cause them to slouch f 1 dtS m?’.e or less> or presses so as m circular amputations, and I am convEd that in* rT^ ^ °“Ur in flaP a* jessing, and not in the operation, whSSSrhS^ m0St 08868 fault * the nority, ^’filp-operatfon8mus^be wedVhTSeL^el5 Vr™tf ',he test of suPe‘ hurgeon, the difference of time renuired for • 1 ut m the hands of a good -of SO little consequence, tha^^^htt^SdS HIT™™ °f dther* I cannot but think, that the same band S 04 ba taken luto account. * * * incision, would with almost equal facility if eo^Pv^n^ ?afeJy comPletes the flap -.cular.” (pp. 151 AnA T4„, mcnity, it equally well trained, accomplish the n!,. •ut surfaces in the respective operatioSTeeTn^of trifl^1- " the coraParatiw extent of th,t a s”d s,“mp is **■ «■> ” “r,?6" leg and utation has been by one mode or the other - at -ill PS6 ? y^ars’ to say whether an am- Irawn foom the sh.Sc of the cicatrYces?uTs’evldent<a» “e *en a full fleshystLmp'shortlyIfteffe^peJatio^^r" ^ ^ ot^^'l^'thTe'has ■ n^S-T "UISt "I'0 tbat " this substance,timdoubted^lySffi0bSeiVat'0n must b° fully useful snnnnTr a"d ItS Presence is absolutely necessary^” fn frF?81 P''otectlou to the mb , suPPort for an artificial limb,” as Liston stntec’r P'-1j4’^ not>h°wever, as “ a -» it rn pr?PerIy adJusted, does it bear on the end of S’ ln "° case> if a" artificial (a) Above cited.904 COMPARISON OF THE VARIOUS MODES OF AMPUTATION. the calf muscles are so bulky, that it is often difficult to get the skin well over them i they he left, and l do not think the cure is so quick as with the circular. But if a skin flap be made and the muscles cut through directly, I do uot think more time is gamed than by the circular operation. There is, however, a more serious objection to flap-, amputation through the calf, in the greater frequency of after-bleeding; his has oc- curred to me two or three times, and the number of vessels I have had to take up ami the sloughy condition of the whole one, and its tedious union by granulation have al-. most induced me to determine never to operate on the leg but with the circular On any other part, I believe it is of little consequence which of the two operations if performed. Some Surgeons have been accustomed to practise one and some the other mode, and thus having acquired experience, preferred their own method. I have em- ployed both, and shall probably continue to do so, believing, with the exception I ha e made that either will answer equally well, provided due attention be paid to the dressing throughout the whole course of the cure, without which all the objections that have been made to either will most certainly be verified.—J. F. b.J 2710. Opinions are divided as to the preference of uniting the ampu tation wound by quick union, and its cure by suppuration and granulation ; the former method has, however, the most supporters, and is, generally, the most proper. As for the rest, many practitioners have exaggerated- the evils accompanying the cure by suppuration and granulation. W hen?- in this treatment the rules already laid down be observed, the wouM not stuffed with lint, and its union not prevented at bottom, but merely, at the edges of the skin, according to my experience, the cure proceeds as Quickly as with quick union, for the wound after amputation of large, limbs never takes place by complete agglutination, in the strict sense o the word. The cure of the wound by suppuration and granulation u. specially proper for those cases where the patient has long been subject to ulcers and considerable suppuration, where the quick suppression of the discharge has ill consequences, and translations to the cavities o y may take place, where issues and other drains are not a ways able to pr* vent these evil results («). Klein, Textok, and others, have denied. ThVi^MsTDupuytren’s (6) opinion. He considers that dressing of the ampntog» together Only in amputations required for injuries, and which are at oncepe E te cta .he wound; in ell « where long M suppuration have rendered amputation necessary the above treatmen sno ]y recourse to, as with complete bringing together, inflammation of internal pa of the belly, may occur. mode in which 'hoped to produce quick union, whether by st.c.ung » “J -—r" illflamma dipped in cold water. The object is to promote adhesive not suppurative i ^ ^ tion as the patient’s constitution suffers less from the former tha ,j c)iecking } ’ cuVr. niti.lv nuicker The fear of metastasis in consequence of the sudden c. of adrain upon die constitution, by the removal of a limb having a large' " ct 0fnse. is nr in a case of compound fracture or other injury where the discharge * P xoept or ma case Surgeons little thought of, as their experience proves it to ^ Sss =s* s’"»« Rust, Ueber die Amputation grosmen Glledmuien ; in hi. Magimn, ml. P (6) Above cited, p- 417.RESULTS OF AMPUTATION. 905 wound. Experience as to success is the only way by which the correctness of practice ^ -tS °f EDgJiSu P1'aCtiCe iD regard t0 a-Putation will pUe its superiority, if fully carried out, and the necessary and only necessary, dressings for keeping the edges of the wound together, be employed, without swathing in reliefs and cross bandages, and even m woollen nightcaps, which in my earlier days I have seen employed, the only effect of which is that they encourage the suppurative and dis- courage the adhesive process.—j. f. s. s OF THE RESULTS OF AMPUTATION. f SUbjeCt °f/1!e hlShest consideration to the Surgeon as regards his decision fromh PRrformance of thls operation, and his expectation of the success resulting there- ?ENJAMT‘I Phillips (a) has given a highly interesting paper on thfs very ® ppic’ aud Jhe r.esult of hls inquiry is, that the mortality after amputation iu hrance Germany America, and England together, is 23* per cent. Ur. Lawrie (6) has also occupied himself with the same important matter and draws his conclusions from a series of 276 cases of amputations of allkES hi the G asgow Infirmary; from which it appears there were 176 recoveries and 100 deaths or a proportion of deaths to recoveries as 1 to 1'76. recoveries, Dd 100 deaths> nf th^ER ^ about th„e same tirae gave to the Medico-Chirurgical Society an account aJy 1841 SSSnfffiT*1-?? fYnlVersi'T C°llege Hospita1’ from June 1835 to Janu- al?d ? S 6 ’ Wlth their reslllts> among which there were only 10 deaths I now m?ve a he-Tre am°Dg 10 CaS6S of primaT amputation for accident. ’ 1835 ndT na; ','Cf acco™t °P54 amputations which I performed between the years live^more at ?enlUS1aft’ a ,St' ,Thoma.s s Hospital; some particulars, of which I Xl lengtffafter the description of the several amputations: Total. Through the Thigh For Accidents, Primary'. ■ Secondary Scrofulous Diseases of Knee Other Diseases Cway HospitalVi t must be evi- .-■stated, by some surgical writers as the ordinnrn J)ei ceii^* whi°h has been !°'be observed also that the largest mortality is anmnITh56 °f fatal amPutations* Jt will IJ ln(l on the lower extremities In 7 m y, »-c § *le oases operated on for accidents, 't dirough the leg, 3 d ed 'Whils of r nT 1 ,tbr°Ugh ,the thigh. I lost 6 ; and of 9 (a) oh~„ • P y aDd 1 seC01ldal7 amputations in the upper I lmputations in d*iflfe"?n?Co^^ °f 00 Results of Amputations at University Col 1 “J**! G^tte, vol. xxii. lbs L°ndon '««« Lon,In!,, statistically a^rattged fm 'Iedical(JTOtte'voi* Medtco-d.nruretcal 1 ransactions, vol. xxiv. p. ,5j.AMPUTATION THROUGH THE TIIIGII. 906 extremity, not a single case was lost. This excess of mortality in operating after acci dents, is to be ascribed, when the patients die early, to the conjoined shock of the acci- dent and operation. Besides which the persons admitted into hospitals for such injuries are commonly free livers with broken down constitutions, the like of whom are not' unfrequently destroyed by the results of trivial accidents, which run either into ery sipelas, or diffuse cellular inflammation and gangrene.—J. F. S.J Third Section.—OF AMPUTATION IN CONTINUITY OF THE SEVERAIi] LIMBS. I.—OF AMPUTATION THROUGH THE THIGH. (.Amputalio Femoris, Lat.; Amputation oder Ablosung der Oberschenhels, Germ.; Amputation de la Cuisse, Fr.) 2711. In amputating through the thigh, the circular, or flap cut mayjl be practised, the patient being so placed on a table covered with a mat- * tress, that the limbs extend freely beyond its edge, and the trunk be in a posture between sitting and lying. The sound limb should be supported; on a stool and held by one assistant. Another holds the diseased limb at the knee-joint in such way that the leg be bent at an obtuse angle towards; the thigh, which itself is a little bent on the groin (1). A third assistant compresses with his fingers or with a compressor, the femoral artery on the horizontal branch of the pubes (2). A fourth standing on the outside ' of the thigh, encircles it with both hands, and draws the skin well up so that there° shall be no folds (3) ; and a fifth gives the instruments to the operator (4). Compression of the artery by an assistant is preferable to the application of the tour- niquet, which can generally be only employed when the amputation is performed at the lower third of the thigh; and the place at which it must then be put on is the upper third of the thigh. , . .. . . JL , f(l) Except when the injury or disease is in the leg, this direction cannot be tot- lowed out; therefore, as, at least with us, the greater number of amputations through the thigh are performed for disease in the knee-joint, and that pary is commonly; fixed, or its slightest movement so agonizing when there is ulceration of its cartilages, that any change of its usual posture is not warrantable, the Surgeon must be con- tent with his assistant merely keeping the limb steady in any position it can be con- veniently held. Occasionally, indeed, the leg can only be held on a pillow, and not JM the soft parts have been cut through can the knee be grasped to steady the limb, wiius tlie bone is sawn. . , , (2) In pressing on the artery at the groin, a very common mistake is to press the vt ssei down into the thigh, by which it is thrust upon the muscles, and can only be compresSf bv great exertion on the part of the assistant, and with much unnecessary pam ' the patient. The pressure should always be a little inclined upwards towards belly, and then the artery can be thrust against the bone and with little effort. - of great importance, that the assistant who is intrusted with this serious charge, shouio be well up to his business; he should be well satisfied of the position of the vessel, an his capability of commanding it with ease and certainty, and not have to be f,,nr,~?S5 about for it during the course of the operation. Having determined this, it is not rig tb it the patient should be subjected to the pressure longer than absolutely neeaeur therefore having adjusted his hands, which is best done by placing one thumb on t vessS and the other above it, and grasping the sides of the thigh with both waits till the operation actually commences, and directly the knife touches the s fir(3)3 Thif assis’tanUs 'superfluous, as the operator can hmisclf better retract theskm to the extent he desires, by grasping the thigh with the whole of his left 1a^ m These preliminary directions may by some be considered superlluous, » j are very far6from so, as upon the thorough knowledge of the duty of each assistant,AMPUTATION BY THE CIRCULAR OPERATION. 907 his strict attention to that and none other, depends the easy course of the operation Of this I apprehend no one will doubt, who has had experience in the instruction of stu- dents.—J. F. S.j 2712. In performing the circular operation, the operator standing on the outside of the thigh proceeds in the following manner. Carryino- his right hand, in which he holds a straight bistoury, under the thigh over to its outer side, he places its edge vertically about a finger’s breadth above the kneecap, but always according to the thickness of the thigh, about three or four inches below the part where the bone is to be sawn through, and carrying it in a circular line around the whole thigh, at once divides the skin and underlying cellular tissue down to the fascia lata. The assistant now again diawsback the skin throughout its whole circumference, and the operator makes at the edge thus drawn back some slight cuts, by which the cellular tissue connecting the skin is divided, and the latter can be drawn back two fingers’ breadth. -JfA1!1®, sk.1° b® not divklcd at 0fe continuous circular cut, the cut upon the under part of the thigh must be first made, and then from the inner end of this the second is carried over the front of the thigh into the outer end of the first. The mere drawing , Skl? Just mentioned, is better than separating and making flaps of it. If the laigei amputating knife be used for this purpose, the cut will be less regular LNo withstanding Chelius prefers the circular cut and simple retraction, I think the nch S f °n th„t faCe,,°f the Stumk-if’ after tbat ^ done, it be divided about an ■inch vertically on either side, so as to make a sort of flap. The largeness of the knife tfnrke H m-fCh C?“SfqUenCe ’ but the best for the Performance of the operation is a heavy- backed knife, which cuts more certainly and correctly. I do not see any necessitv for l°ife ousht “be for 2713 The operator now, sinking on his right knee, carries the 3aro-e stiaight amputating knife, which he grasps with his whole right hand the upper part of the handle resting between the thumb and forefino-er ’and the rest of it enclosed by the other fingers, beneath the thigh, over to its outside, p aces its edge vertically at the edge of the retracted skin and puts the thumb and forefinger of the left hand upon the fore part of the back of the knife (1)- He then cuts through first the muscles on the outer side down to the bone, whilst he bears the knife towards himself and downwards, carry mg it round in a circle with a firm stroke, and cuts through the muscles down to the bone. At the moment when the knife reaches the back of the thigh the operator rises and finishes the cut stand- o- 1 lie assistant who had drawn back the skin, now grasps, with both hands in the muscular cut, in such way that the thumb abovJandthe nger below cioss, and draw back the superficial muscles, after which those still remaining attached to the bone are divided higher bv a circular cut. A third cut is now made in like manner bv wlmd. ti J C.1K; ar » also divided. By means of a cleft cloth, S uLTeft L 'fofwhS“7 placet! on the hi,,,! part of the thigh, and its ends Carrie,'on both side! of he bone to the front, the assistant holds back the muscles and the hm.n sawn through where the periosteum has been divided (2) towar^^ tbe ‘high, whilst the knife is drawn act, and that it is not necesslry^to carrv the whole e<1^' is ™da to to throw it that iq co ♦‘ ^ ^ari^ the knife round upon the outside of the thieh that the thumb is on tin 1 ? +£Ue P0Slt'011 °f the hand on the handle of the knife’ [1)1 do no see the ,otl,er fingers ‘he opposite side of the handle, upon the end of the knife bkde^lTnud„Vant.a8? ln Plauing the fingers of the left hand the knife with the right haid only entS thlS C0U"tr-v- we are “^tomed to use908 AMPUTATION BY TWO FLAPS, THROUGH THE THIGH ; I may take the opportunity here of hinting to the young operator, that the knife is- not to be, as I have occasionally seen it, forcibly jammed through the muscles down to the bone, and the circular cut completed with the smallest possible quantity of the hind part of its blade. Knives are not chisels, as this practice would seem to imply, but they may be compared to very delicate saws ; and as every one knows a saw will! only act well, when it moves in a long stroke, just so is it with the knife, of which the; cutting part, whether a small portion only, or successive portions of it be used,, must be constantly in motion, continually drawn along the part it has to cut, which it will then cut readily, and not violently forced through, as some operator’s fancy it very, clever to do. (2) I prefer spreading my left hand over the face of the stump and thrusting the soft; parts back, to an assistant’s aid with a cleft cloth, whilst sawing through the bone.— J. F. S.] 2714. After tying- the vessels and clearing the wound from blood, and: drying- the surrounding parts, a roller must be applied from the uppermost: part of the stump, in descending turns, nearly as low as the end of the bone,, for the purpose of drawing the skin and muscles gently together. The.j wound is now brought together in a vertical direction with strips of stick-- ing plaster, of sufficient length, placed across it; upon these a pledget: spread with some mild ointment is applied ; a wad of lint and over it a cross- bandage, two ends of which come up on the sides, and the others before and behind the thigh, and the ends confined with a circular bandage, ai few turns of which are to be passed over the face of the stump. [The roller first and the straps of sticking plaster after, with one strap passing over- the whole length of the wound, and a circular strap to confine the ends of the straps, are all that are requisite. No wad of lint, cross bandage, or second roller are required.— J. F. S.] 2715. Amputation through the thigh with two flaps is thus performed. The patient having been placed as for the circular operation, the precau- - tions taken against bleeding, and the assistants stationed as before, the operator standing on the outside of the limb, with the fingers and thumb I of his left hand grasps the flesh .on the outside of the thigh and draws it: outwards. With' his right hand lie now thrusts a long narrow double- ■ edged knife through the front of the thigh vertically down to the bone, and with its point close to the outside of the bone, still thrusts towards • the back of the limb till it penetrate behind exactly opposite where it had entered in front. The knife is now carried further downwards, and its edge being turned a little outwards, cuts through the muscles and skin obliquely. The point of the knife is then placed vertically on the upper (front) angle of the wound, carried down on the inside of the bone to the lower (hind) angle of the wound, and as it descends along the bone, with the edge turned from it, a second flap, like the outer one in size and length, is formed. The length of the flap should be. according to the thickness of the limb, that of three or four fingers* breadth. Both flaps are now drawn back with a cleft cloth by an assistant, and the operator, with a circular incision at the bottom of the wound, divides the muscular parts still remaining attached, and cuts through the periosteum where the bone is to be sawn. The dressing is to be performed in the same manner as after ijjB- the circular operation. According to Lancknueck’s method, the operator should place himself in ampn through8the right thigh, on the outside, and when through the left on the made thf limb and firsi make on the side next him a semicircular cut from the fore to the hind surface of the thigh, through the skin and muscles obliquely down to the bon , 111™ “rJkJthe knife &k..h & limb to ft. other side pl,c«i ...ft. the wound, and draws it, in the same way as in the first cut, to ‘he lower angl h wound, at which part he must take spec.al care to cut through all the muscles.AND THROUGH THE THIGH, WITH SINGLE FLAP. 909 5mS^re no.w,to t“rn®d back> and with a circular cut the operator divides all the parts still connected with the bone, at the bottom of the wound. P I have stated in reference to this mode of operating (a), that carrying two semicir cular cuts through a large quantity of muscles as in the thigh, and thei/exlct connexion at the angles, would be difficult, and the cuts likely to be unequal: and I find this "P""°n rather confirmed than disproved by Langeniieck’s own observation (b) that . on.® "ho speaks from experience, and draws the knife through, instead of firmhKreft ' on> ‘be Pai;ts [not allow this and that he had “ amputatedafter ^minuted fhe knife th,rough th'ghs which were as fleshy as such limbs could possibly be and vet part of?hethigh ^ J al°n^fiew throuSh down t0 the bone, and that too at the inner that both have been m.de, ImZtT ‘°W fes “:,sndie tz szs && parts, the saw being directed perpmdiculadl” (p 384-86^’ Th™ ^ 1° jhe soft I preferred by Syme and Fergusson tho wE. i° , ^be same metbod is also 1 before entering the knife in front, of’well elevatiL^heTkin^nd^h™ necessit>'- doing which the front flap will not have sufficient breadth, rnoie eSeciaeRvTthPW1' °Ut tion be performed towards the lower part of the thiol, y lf the 0Pei'a' hmd flap should be longer than the frontone L’ bo'v?Yer’ wh7 the the posterior muscles have greater tendency to retraction than ttSSON considers, because by the position in which the limb is placed after the amputation the because extended are drawn back from the face of the stump, whilsthoseb fill? “ and have therefore no disposition to pull away fromffie stump-} p S rekxed hv II " ?6 afPutafi0H through the thigh with a single flap whicll u comTMP ,t0 16 <i0uljle HaP’ b^au.se thereby tile would is uk re T*?’ and tlie Projectt°n of the bone more certainly ore ted, the flap is made from the outer, (Benedict Textou t.tIP \ from the inner side, (Zang, Textor,)^ ivo^ behindn *7° (Benjamin Bell, LeGras, Foull iy.) A doubleknifr in o„e of these directions down to the bone, passed elosfto i lnd ”'’'1 out on the opposite side, and then being carried down -ilnno- thlUst flap of four or five fingers’ breadth is formed Whil t ° ■ 16 b°ne) a back this flap,and draws up the skino,° ,“e others de "T'T' l,0,kls a semicircular cut an inch below tile part where the knife in' "lalies '0 and out, through the skin drawn it „ra mi le n bad been thrust divides the' musclf, wS a semtrlid'm^’t d“„wn to SL^ b“ 1 Z j-he muscles still remaining attached one’ and trough L cpTalZtlLZlXle °aSeS *»« tas been lervj a hrZZiokof ,l,e Mud ? °" ' n ,0r °tl,er si"“, “ as to pro- ' [Amputation wkh a flaD from IIIV T?W tIlG UPPer Part °f the thigh, fcounty Hospital. Fergusson observe” tint •‘’■‘ift” ,perf°!'med by Dr. Little of Sligo way a considerable portion of the m-Ut ^ ma unS snch a flap, be should cut * ““ be b,'0“i!h‘ “ lie ■«*<"« d» dwided "fef0' ^ (<0 Above cited, pp. 40C>, 407.910 RESULTS OF AMPUTATION THROUGH THE THIGH. [Syme (a) has made the following observations in regard to amputation through the shaft of the thigh-bone :—“ The danger immediately attending its performance,” says • he, “ and the inconvenience of its imperfect result, in rendering the stump uncomfortable, have suggested various contrivances and modifications of procedure, with the effect,, certainly, of restraining the hemorrhage, diminishing the patient’s suffering, and pro-- moting union of the wound. But the stern evidence of hospital statistics still shows,, that the average frequency of death is not less than from 50 to 70 per cent., while it’ cannot be denied that many of the survivors suffer from uneasiness connected with i protrusion of the bone. Having from an early period of my practice devoted much i attention to the subject of amputation—having seen the circular incision give place to the flap-operation,—and having witnessed the results of these methods, variously modi- fied, in the hands of many Surgeons possessing every degree of operative skill, I am at length led to the conclusion, that there is something radically wrong in the principle of the operation. This error I believe to be, dividing the thigh-bone through its shaft: instead of the condyles or trochanters. * * * The most frequent occasion for ampu- • tation of the thigh is afforded by diseases of the knee-joint. Next to this may be ranked 1 compound fractures of the leg and thigh, and then tumours of the leg and thigh. * * * Dense bone dies more readily than that of a spongy or cancellated structure; and the action of a saw, to say nothing of ruffling the periosteum, must always be apt to cause; exfoliation, which, by impeding union of the soft parts, delays union, and opposes its i perfect completion, by increasing the scope afforded to contraction of the muscles. It t would, however, be a narrow view to suppose that the direct effect of local injury is ■ alone concerned in causing death of the bone after amputation, and there can be no doubt, that inflammation of the medullary membrane may co-operate, if it does not t act exclusively, in its production. * * * But if the medullary membrane he liable to inflammation, suppuration of its texture, and inflammation of the veins cannot fail to be the frequent consequence. * * * But when the bone is divided through the con- dyles, nothing more than the epiphysis being concerned, the medullary membrane is not at all disturbed, whilst the cancellated structure is not liable to exfoliate, either from proneness to die from injury, or through inflammation of any other texture.” (pp. 337- 39.) Two cases of scrofulous disease of the knee-joint, in general very favourable cases for amputation, are given as successful examples of the result of this practice, and upon tnese the recommendation of amputating through the epiphyses of the thigh-bone is founded. In reading the above paragraph, I was surprised at the dangers and inconveniences t resulting from amputation, at the middle or near the middle of the shafts of bones which j is most commonly selected for that operation, as detailed by Syme ; and still more at the awful mortality of from 50 to 70 per cent., which “ the stern evidence of hospital statistics still shows.” And as my recollection of the usual results of amputation at St. Thomas's Hospital had not led me to consider amputation so formidable an operation, either immediately, or in its consequences, except in the case of primary or seconr arv amputations for accidents, which are always very serious, and most commonly law, 1 referred to my notes of all the amputations I had performed m i?t. 1 nomass Hospital during six years. From these is subjoined an account of twenty-eign amputations through the thigh; five of them were primary, and two secondarj ; me whole were fatal except one of the latter: the remainder consisted of seventeen eases of scrofulous disease of the knee-joint, of which four died; two of necrosis, °i e osteosarcoma ; and one of fungoid disease, all lived. The total of the fatal casis " ten, or 35 • 7 per cent.; of the primary, all died; of the secondary, 1 in 2, or .>0 Pe*c?n'’ of the scrofulous, 4 in 17, or 23 • 5 per cent. In none, of the successful cases i J of the untoward occurrences happen which arc mentioned, by Syme, though a ", amputated through the middle of the bone, excepting that in three cases a vcrj s ring of bone exfoliated, and in which only did protrusion occur, and that only fora ti The results of my colleagues’ practice in regard to this operation, I am quite s > correspond with my own, though I cannot report them, but the cases I have gi afford a fair estimate of this operation in our Hospital. • ’ ’ ’ ’ Liston has also nw11 i * An account of eighteen amputations through the thigh by Liston has also riven (b\ of which for accidents, two were primary, one lived and one died ; aD . secondary, one lived and one died; eight were for disease of the knee-joint, one f ^ given twofor1 painful "stump",'one for old ulcer, one for malignant ulcer, one forery^P^'j one for tumour in the ham, all the last six successful The average of the *» cases here is 1 in 6, or 16-6 per cent.-, in the primary and secondary cases, 50 per cent.; and in the scrofulous cases, 1 in 8, or 12$ per cent. (a) Surgical Coses and Observations ; in London and Edinburgh Monthly Journal of Med'cal vol. v. 1845. mnourgn Monimy ,-0 (ft) Potter, above cited, p. wx-A«o.REPORT OF AMPUTATIONS THROUGH THE THIGH. Oil became very low „„d restless, „nd ,?iS “iSh operation. From these facts it may be inferred, that the cause of the awful fatality reecorderl ?“ibeftsou§ht f°r elsewei-e than in the damage which the dense bone in the middle of fmou atlnlfnrth!r0mIu Sa7kaud,.S°ue better ^•°unds ^ found for up amputation m the middle of the thigh-bone, and resorting to amputation close to its sa vin thiough the ends of bones, where it is certainly in larger quantity than in tbp lhMeWrere Xt w" (luantity. I confess I cannot unde,SLd See I shoMd KtsS£t0 f0ll0W Ws of -win* . liSubVoSte ep0rt 0f TwenlU-ei<Jht Amputations through the Thigh, from the Year 1835 to 1840 inclusive. Disease or Accident. Opera- tion. Remarks. 1S35 in Quigley, aged >, admitted June j 3. Oifeosarroma of the lower part of the right thigh- bone, of three years’ duration. July 3. Wilh circular cut; five arteries were tied, and the wound dressed at once with straps of plaster • went on well throughout. * V ’ utrles Avling, 47 (flour- ,rter), admitted ct. «. Simple fracture of right leg with comminution i and much bruising, con- sequent on being jam- med between a step and a drar-wheel. On eighth day the leg became gan- grenous ; hectic set and increased. Oct. 21. IV,th Circular cut; in dividing the muscles a large abscess was cut into between the m vaitus intermix and bicept; free venous hleed- raji’dly. * e"eS 've,e tied> bm he sunk Dis- j churged. I Died. Sept. 10. 1836 *ard Clark, *1 admitted >g.2. Ulceration of the cartilages of the right kncC-joint with suppuration, and ab.iCPSB in bursa of m. rertus. Disease com- menced three years since, bjit has not prevented him walking till the lust I eight months. Aug. 19. ”2*’’^icaljlapi; three arteries tied, and n met r "evon .hours after. ham Allen, *1 8, admitted , g- 23. Sinu3 leading into left i knee-joint; no disease of cartilages. A twelve- month since sprained the knee; this followed by abscess, which burst a week before his udmis- the flnna «• ^ i \ &evcn hours after, p aster On ,l*Tsht ;°Sflhl!r with straps of Irritative ?„ 1 ,y hart a sma,t attack laver great heaviness, which subsided nbout four days niter. The wound healed kindly nt bottom, but one flap slinn trouble'0 °'her “ and CaUscd “ «°°d dual Sept 3. *• Bicksett, d, 23 (sailor), mtted Aug. 2i, Ulceration of the cartilages of the left knee with sup- puration and sinus, lead- ing down to n Inr^e ab- scess in m. gastrocnemius, which opened externally by other two sinuses. Disease commenced two yenrs since, alter ex- posure to wet and cold at *ca. In tills case the knee was ncaily straight. Sept. 3. c,f( ’ three nrtcrieB were tied. The but JiddnntSnd|,nt 0DU With stmPs of Plaster, tait did not adhere, became sloughy, a large por -on ol Skin separated, the*1 gone pl£? b™ a rine of h henl|,d by Sra»“l«‘™ ; out a ring of bone, about a quarter of an inch 10 'a'ed. and the stump was very coni- cal , but after a lew months, as he gained flesh it ceased entirely to be so. ’ "IhLiuU „hT‘‘mlai JlaV' • tho knif0 passed “' “ S1! “ lafg° abscess in the burm of the m at tlu’ '?.maklnS ‘lie front flap; this portion wera tied dl’’J,™tl'd ,oul- Five arteries XS3T Sfe. I “U,di‘e'UCofkn- March *»nicu was cition of a cold wet Hath ,\ J “t'H11- tho fourtanmh dan he hurt ^ 1 1 le even*nK °f bilious Vomiting •' ° lmd n smai t altuck Of Feb. 3. Willi two horiiontal Jlaps. 1838 Brook*, ) . 1 Lee, aged ,rter)f nd- •/ * May 20. Llcerntlon of cartilage* of IHt knee-joint. Disease 1 commenced five years since, and two years after I received a blow on that joint. 1 May 12. Compound comminute fracture of right thigh- bone, w.ih severe lacera- tion of muscles by transit or w‘Kgon-whco!s. May 26. Four hours after accident. ^n,c«oT^o‘,“Vh"d Mn dk id'd uPwnrds sixteenth ll'tlIU;ted, and on the upvZLn n‘„ bone, Pi-utfu.lfd through its alteration rta 0tr",ll,rc“ "nd fo«r months wound i. a of bo"° separated, but the »0.md had not healed when he left the house ''chaJf^l JlV’’' and ,llrouSi' Iho little Iro- enmntad l'n")r“l »«orv tied before the during °f * I1hP- Flapgad very much blood® ?bo, pperatton, and lost much venous blood, and though brandy was freely given he jactitation, and he sunk rapidly. Oct. 21. Seven hours | md n-half ufa r the I operation. Nov. 7. Dec. 27. Nov. 29. March 11. Nov. 0. May 20. An hour md u-hulf afu*r912 REPORT OF AMPUTATIONS THROUGH THE THIGH. 1838 continued. John M'llard, aged 42 (sailor), ad- mitted May 29. Charles Russell, aged 28 (.farm-ser- vant), admitted Dec. 27. 1839 William Wilmott, aged 26 (carman), admitted Nov. 6, 1838. James Arnold, a ed 22, admitted Aug. 27, 1H38. Eliza Phillip*. aged 22, admitted April 23. Disease or Accident. Opera- tion. Remarks. Dis- charged. Anrhylosis of left knee- June 2. With vertical flaps: live arteries were tied; lost inint with severe nain on much blood at the operation, and became very ihgh’teTt touch Pof the faint, the medullary artery bled ve.y fiercely uJlp but was stopped by pressure. As he rallied * bleeding began again, and did not cease till six- teen other vessels, nil of smnll size nnd much retracted, had been taken up; the me- dullary artery a»,fn burst forth, and was aj-am stopped by pressure. Another vessel was tied two or three hours after, nnd the bleeding then censed ™ be adjusted ns nt first; next day he complained oi pain in his belly ; had tightness at che“t and stehed frequently ; continued very restless. On the fourth <lay suppuration commenced, and he complained of pain on the outer and under part iof the slump; a bread poultice was applied. On the fifth day the stump became more pnfui,andvvlien pressed much pus was discharged from the upper gap of the wound, wh eh was dressed to-day, and he became a little the easier; m the evening he pan in his telly erased. On the sixth day, the pain in the stump, which had diminished, became very severe and the outer flap was much inflamed, some way up the thigh ; he was very restless, and. had much constitutional excitement. On the following day he was rather better but the erysipelatous blush had extended upon the buttock, lias hitherto taken laudanum to allay irritation and give rest, which, however, has not been very effect-ee, and beeT tea the latter of which was to-day changed lor a mutton chop and a pint of p^ter. Ooi the eighth day was worse, his tongue coated ■ pulse very quick and irritoble , looks nmnous, en-sipelatous blush extending to the iliac crest; discharge from wound diminished m Quantity and thinner On the following morning had some hiccough ; looked wild, Slouch perfectly sensible; and hod some mucous rattle in his windpipe, winch towards evenin', increased and the hiccough constant, lie continued getting lovrer, nnd the breathin', worse. Brandy was given to keep him up, and the bronchial affection attacked with blister, and afterwards mercurial friction, but without avail; his bowels got out of sorts hut he went lingering on till the evening ol the tsnuUuth day. The rl„ht rtleura was found covered with congulnble lymph, nnd contained four ounces of serum, with flakes both lungs gorged with sero-purulent fluid ; the bronchial membrane deep red The mucous membrane of the stomach thickened nnd mammlllated wuh brownish-red patches ; and that of the intestines, small and lu.ge, here and there ulce- rated in patches , the stump sloughy. Severe laceration of the skin of the right leg, and of the 77i. gasirocnernius; consequent on injury bv cart-wheel. Was much depressed at his admis- sion. Severe contusion of the right leg, consequent on being jammed between u cart-wheel and the kerb- stone ; followed by ex- tensive sloughing of the skin of the bnck of the leg, nnd suppuration be- neath the whole remain- ing skin of the leg and upper part of the thigh ; unu great depression. Soft anchylosis, ulceration of < artllages nnd abscess in left knee-joint. Not much affected constitu- tionally by the disease, and very urgent for the operation. Dec. 27. Eight hours after accident. 3ft anchylosis of left knee-joint, with constant severe pain, sp cmllv at night. The disease be- gan nt two years of age. The knee bent at a very acute angle, and very tender. April 18. May 10. With circular cut; four arteries tied; lost much venous blood during the operation, and was much exhausted ; wound brought together with a single strap, and the dressing completed twelve hours after. On the fourth day irritative fever came on, and he became much excited. On the sixth day little union, and free suppu- ration of the wound, the bone a little protruding. On the eleventh day a little graze on the other leg was observed to be separating, and on the eighteenth about a pint of pus was discharged from beneath it; subsequently suppuration ex- tended beneath the skin of the whole leg. He improved u little, but aftetwards sunk again, complaining the day before he died, of severe pain in the chest. On examination the femoral vein was found tilled with pus up to a valve four incites above its cut end. The bronchi were acutely inflamed. With circular cut; lost but little blood during the operation ; the femoral artcrv was tied before sawing through the bone, and other three after. The wound was brought together vertically with straps of plaster. He bore the operation very well, but was sick on being put to bed. From this time he gradually improved, nnd in thirty- three days the wound had healed, and he got up. With tiro horizontal/lap*; the soft parts much consolidated, and the flaps tinned back with difficulty. Had little arterial, but much venous bleeding. Five arteries and the femoral vein tied; the latter lmd bled most pertinaciously. The flam were at once brought together "an adhesive straps. Next day, much oozing hn»me taken place, the flaps were opened, a smalt vessel found and twisted. In the afternoon he began to vomit; another vessel was tied, ana the stump dressed. Third day. vomiting con- tinued, and at night he wandered much ; but on the morning of the fourth day he was less, continued so for six hours and died, l n<* examination threw no ndd’rional light upon the cause of death, which seemed to rest on the con- stitutional shock from the operation. With circular cut; six nrtoric* and the femoral vein were Bed. Tho ed*r* of the wound were brought together transversely, and fastenca « eight pins and twisted suture ; a wet rag *JPP* The pin» removed at »erenty hour*% and u opposite them; dressed with ndhMivepiast^- In course of a month the wound healed. i*«P< a little sinus, where the ligature* had brought out. May 7- June 12-913 REPORT OF AMPUTATIONS THROUGH THE THIGH. peratioq. 1839 t continued. .Edward Moore, aged 27 (tailor), admitted June 4. Disease or Accident. Opera- tion. ■Elizabeth Harley, ■1 aged 15, admitted f May i8. |iarles Walder, d 21 (labourer), dmitted June 5. iry Hutchins, . *ed 48, admitted 4“g-1. M nes Lee, aged U (ostler), ad- ** died May 7. h Dowles, . d 50, admitted m • '• 18*0 • ird Berry, 13, ndmitted 31, 1839. Parker, 7 (labourer), ded Jan. 22, JL. II. Ulceration of cartilages, with suppuration in left knee-joint, and external I abscesses not communi- cating; after a fall two years since. 1 July 10. Fungoid tumour on upper part of calf of left leg, about the size of orange. Ulceration of cartilages of right knee, with sinuses; had had amputation Performed through the leg seven years since; two years ago fell and bruised his stump; the I knee has swollen since, 1 and abscesses formed about it, during his stay here. These have been opened, and continued discharging. Necrosis of right thigh-bone , just above the articular | surface of condyles, and communicating with si- nuses opening above the I knee-cap and on the inner coo.lyle. Ha, had disease in the knee-joint for forty yotirs; hot three year, "K° received „ blow on t ,‘L. °rVCr Urt "< ‘lie thigh from a boot. Aug. 21. Oct. 2. Remarks. June 19. Abscesses around, but not j communicating with the right knee-joint; syno- vial membrane thick- ened, soft, and jelly-like, spotted with red ; disease i began with a fall sixteen months since. Necrosis in head of right June 30. shin-bone, and partial destruction of the joint- cartilages ; at other parts the synovial membrane of the three bones adhe- rent at the corresponding surfaces. Dis- charged. Died. Sept. 10. Oct. 12. With two oblique flaps ; eleven ligatures applied. Aug. 27. Suffered great agony at operation and for an hour after, on which account forty drops of lau- danum given ; this quieted him, and the wound was left open for nine hours ; two small vessels then tied, and the edges brought together with eight pins and twisted suture ; these removed at sixty-eight hours, and the edges found generally united ; in their place adhesive straps applied. In about a montli the wound healed, and the scar began to draw in. With two flaps, oblique, upwards and inioards ; six arteries tied; the stump left open nine hours till glazed, then all remaining clots removed, and another vessel tied ; the edges of the wound bought together, and fastened with five pins and the twisted suture; these were removed at ninety-six hours, and adhesive straps applied. Some weeks after, when the wound had healed, the scar contracted and drew in, so that there was a cleft appearance of the face of the stump. With two oblique flaps; in making the front one a large abscess was penetrated, whence much pus escaped; lost much blood, and ten vessels were tied, and afterwards the sac of the abscess was dissected out; flaps left open, and another vessel taken up ; nine hours after the clot re- moved, another vessel tied, and the flaps brought together with seven pins and twisted suture; these were removed at sixty-nine hours, but not much union. On the next day his bowels were disturbed, and therefore beef tea changed for arrow root and a little meat; and in the evening had pain at pit of stomach and nausea. On the daV Pad a shivering fit. Sores formed on the buttocks, hips, sides of the chest, and shoulders about a month after, most of which healed; but early in October psoas abscess appeared in right groin,, under which he sunk. tW,1 lulPzont°l JlaP?! thirteen arteries were I Nov. 23 lied, the femoral was tied two inches above the edge of the flap, but the lower end bled after- wards, and requ,red tying, when the flaps were brought together, ten hours after, with six pins and the twisted suture; these wero removed at seventy-two hours, and adhesive straps then put on. She wont on without a bad symptom. With circular cut, and cut on each side of the I March 17 skin ; the muscles did not retract in the least • 1840 ‘ nine arteries w-ere tied, and the vein also, as It bled very freely; bleeding recurred during the afternoon, and threo more vessels were taken D,d ™-y "'“'I. and the wound healed in twenty-six days. Six weeks after had a severe attack or acute rheumatism in the right wrist and afterwards his heart was attacked; hc re^ covered after a month. n'ith two oblique flaps • twenty-one vessels were In „. taken up, and the flaps brought together at ' Dlc' once. Recovered, without any untoward symp. Oct. la. Soft anchylosis of viglrt | knee-joint and necrosis m head of shin-bone 1 communicating with » sinus. Compound fracture of left Jan. 22 fc fracture Twenty- I or Iott thigh, and severe two hours °rt,,c »ki" “ accld“‘- SvnrnlK°n ,mVin« be°n mn ov,c.r. b>’“ *tcam-cairingc whilst fallen on the nfil yesterday, at 0 p.m Jan. 10. WT/A two oblique Jlaps fnmnpfil «*»!-. :• r ~~ jiujjb ; nine nrtcrlcH nnd tim femoral vein wore tied ; nine hours after SET nnd'thennPR 'T ole?"Bod- “‘her six vessels live plaster.8 fl“p,‘ br0UBht l°8clllL'r with udho- h.™ vertical flap, . the femoral artery was aftenlnX'm!,kinK ll“> inne/flup ; nndTwn^B tho fem°ra! vein, the deep femoral, nnd two small arteries. Me did not loso two mclr!n0nf" 8 oft l1100'1 ’ bul tla' operation de- pressed him considerably ; and ho sunk rapidly March 17, Jan. 22. Three hours md u-half afterREPORT OF AMPUTATIONS THROUGH THE THIGH. 914 Disease or Accident. Opera- tion. Remarks. Dis- charged. Died. - 1840 continued. Samuel Armstrong, need 16, admitted March 24. Ulceration of cartilages, with Muppuration^and ad- hesive deposit on syno- vial membrane of right knee-joint. Much out of health. March 28. With tico horizontal flaps; three arteries tied, but the medullnry artery oozed freely, except when stopped by pressure; the flaps brought together lour hours after with adhesive plaster. On the fifteenth day irritative fever came on, with much head-ache, and could not be checked. •• April 2 Thirty- two da) after: oj*ratio » Hugh Evans, aged 20 (sailor), ad- mitted May 2. Compound fracture of left leg, with severe lacera- tion of muscle3, and sim- ple fracture of same thigh into the joint, consequent on timber falling upon the limb. Had lost much blood. May 2. Three hours and u-hali after accident. With two horizontal flaps ; four arteries were tied. The wound was sloughy, but lmd cleared on the eleventh day, up to which time he hnd been tolerably well. On the thirteenth day was at- tacked 6fiddenly with pleuritic symptoms, and the sputum slightly tinged with blood ; some little cessation of these symptoms occurred, but he sunk. The left pleura contained straw- coloured serum, with flakes of coagulable lymph, and both costal and pulmonary sur- faces covered with lymph ; the lower lobe of left lung infiltrated with pus ; its apex consoli- dated. May 2* Kigntee days • after .i i>;.erat.o Henry Parker,aged 43 (brewer’s ser- vant), admitted June 1. Compound fracture of the left thigh, with laceration from the inner condyle to nearly the pubes, but not much bruising: lace- ration of right hund and dislocated metacarpal bone; consequent on trnnsit of a loaded dray- wheel. Much depressed on his admission. June 1. Four liourB after accident. With two flaps; immediately on making the first he was violently sick, and I tied the femoral artery before making the second. Some other arteries tied; an hour after operation was vio- lently sick, and once after. Four hours after the flaps brought together with three sutures and straps of plaster ; vomited again during the night. Twenty hours after the first opera- tion, amputation through the wrist-ioint, with a flap from the back of the hand, and five ligatures applied. Sutures in thigh removed after one hundred and eighteen hours ; the wound sloughy. On seventh day attacked with irrita- tive fever, and on the day following was much purged, and this continued till he sunk. On examination there were found a little lobular pneumonia, principally in left lung ; some ulce- ration of mucous membrane of intestines. June U Tnirtee days afur ' .eratio Robert Richards, aged 15, admitted June 16. . Soft anchylosis of right knee. Disease began nine years since after a fall. July 25. With horizontal flaps; six arteries tied ; the wound brought together with a single strap, and the dressing completed eight hours after. On the fifth day the bone began to protrude, and could not be replaced, but the wound healed, except- ing immediately around it, in course of six weeks; and at the end of two months a little ring of bone separated; the wound had not completely healed when he left. Oct. 20. Benjamin Scott, nged 9, admitted June 9. Soft anchylosis of left knee. Disease began five years since, without known cause. Sept. 19. With circular cut; four arteries and the femoral vein were tied ; the edges of the wound brought together with n single strap, nnd the dressing completed seven hours after; went on without a bad symptom. Dec. 15. James Vinson, aged 35 (furm-ser-' vant), admitted Aug. 18. Ulceration of cartilnges of right knee-joint, adhe- sive deposit on the syno- viul membrane; the joint full of pus ; and the bursa of the m. rectus full of pus. Originated in a blow with a shovel nine years since. Nov. 14. With circular cut; the muscles did not retract; nnd in dividing them, tho nbsce»B beneath the tendon of the m. rectus was cut through, but the part on the stump was left; nine arteries were tied; he was much exhausted by the ope- ration, nnd passed his motions involuntarily; the wound was brought together at once with adhesive straps; the stump was perfectly healed in three weeks. Feb. 2, 1841. John Pearmon, aged 19, admitted Nov. 10. Soft anchylosis of the left knee; abscess nbovo the head of the shin-bone; the remaining joint-car- tilages ulcerated. Dec. 5. With the circular ml ; six arteries and the femo- rnl vein were tied; the edecs of the wound were at once brought together with adhesive straps, but three hours after bleeding recurred, nnd four more small arteries were tied ; the wound was dressed as before ; went on very well forn fortnight, and then the stump became sloughy, but it cleared in a few days. Feb. 2, 1841. __ [Since the last sheet has been worked off, I have met with another paper of Svjie on amputation of the thigh (a) which I had accidentally overlooked, in whtch, «te having advocated since 1823 the superiority of flap-amputations over those l>y tne c cular cut, he now states“ When the flaps are placed together it seems as if notn s could prevent their perfect union so as to effect a speedy cure, and afford a com tor u. covering to the bone. In some cases these favourable anticipations are fully rea1' '• but though a good many days, and even one or two weeks, may elapse without ina g manifest the disappointment to be experienced, it much more fr^uenffl*PPf‘ „ the soft parts, however ample they may have appeared in the lint mstonce, ^ contract and diminish until care is required to keep their edges mdenuded, bone, which sometimes, notwithstanding every precaution, at length becomes at (n) Monthly Journal of Medical Science. Nov., 1846.AMPUTATION THROUGH THE LEG. 915 and presenting itself to view, whether dead or living, proclaims the unavoidable misery of a sugarloaf stump. This distressing result depends upon the vital contractility of the muscular tissue, which continuing in operation so long as the cut surface is not prevented from yielding by the formation of new adhesions, not only lessens the mass ot flesh provided for covering the bone but gradually retracts it together with the ■ superjacent integuments.” He thinks that this effect is, among other circumstances, caused by amputating through the lower third of the thigh, and has, therefore, for man) years lecommended amputating through the middle of the thigh in preference, | o pi event the great risk or almost certainty of protrusion to which the bone is ex- posed when divided at or near its lower third.” He then compares the result of am- putation with the circular cut through the lower third of the thigh, “which being the innest pai t of the limb, most readily admits of forming a stump composed only of skin, and then directs that “the incision of the skin should be made as near the knee as possible, not in a circular direction but so as to form two semilunar edges, which may meet together in a line from side to side without projecting at the corners. The t^a,Sh0U/,er-1Vlded along with the integuments, which are thus more easily re- ^ n0t i“y dlssectmg and turning them back, but by steadily drawing them up- Ja ds. th™Ugh mean® of,the assistant’s hands firmly clasping the limb. This should be r^the ®.xtei't °[ leaft ,two inches or more if the thigh is unusually thick. The muscles are then to be divided, See.” (p. 223-25.) J as S-° able a Surgeon as S_YME> cannot be passed by without notice, the thlh ^ the inexperienced to fear operating with flaps in the lower part of tomedto'amn! t /n r6? y there ??,n0t1hlng t0 be dreaded- I have always been accus- on the luf f l0W as.P°sslble through the thigh, not that the patient might rest the artifiotfle^ benP’ WhlCh ISinT0t t0 bePermitted> but simPiy to give the socket of nor a Cornell cf & better grasP> and I certainly never had a permanently protruding bone far asj1 llave had opportunity of seeing amputations ttirough the thigh, either by the circular cut or by flaps, in London practice^ conical stumps are rarities and I am certain that within the las* thirty years,I^ha^ot seen ft, c«ro7;C.hir„or1Td ““ ',h“ the comparatively 1.V thf of sloughing of the stump, even in which they are rare, they are produced not l deed I hav^ ,)Ut bj .wan*°f ProPer attention to the after-dressing. ’ In- [ and m,fscLs u , ?Pin’ ln,°lden ,lme> aft«r amputations in which both skin to m2T the ednes'of Z ll* T’ thf ,with a11 tbe operator’s efforts it was impossible L of the assistants handsy”drhaCveng i“? tU1,'Iling th?m baukwards’ but tbl’ou|h the moans S %g£S?> !“* be done,"as1,the °JE „°p aS °f b»incui(i,°S™l°nS hm‘J- si»cc he hat! warmly if stamp in this situation (amputation at thePknee'i nt partS. recluired to form the fare as to delay, thoughnotprevent recoverv anVtlf, ? be S° deranSed hl their tex- • the advantage of exposing cancell^rl c* Autism some measure, counterbalance frit*medullarycaX llnot Sis’t nSvnfp6086 bone’together with thecontents Satisfied that the operationby^ ^PUt^°n-af tbe knee- now when oaPrinciples, may be employed at the lower thfrd^f .peldo.rnil;d 'vJtk due care, on proper *p-2250 - « IL—°F AMPUTATION THROUGH TUP T vr I Cr“^ Lat- f ' 0717 tc. . la Jambe, Fr.) ary permit it renders amputation through the leg neces- f ioor persons h27, 6 per[°rmec above’ below> or through the calf; i„ ’ 'er> t ie ,)est Place is three fingers’ breadth below the 3 n 2916 AMPUTATION THROUGH THE LEG, WITH CIRCULAR CUT.' tubercle of the shin-bone, as with the shortness of the stump, it easily bends back, and the knee becomes the point of support on the artificial limb The amputation may be performed with the circular cut, or with one on two flaps. 2718. The position of the patient is the same as in amputating through the thigh. The tourniquet must be so applied immediately above the knee- cap, that its head may directly compress the popliteal artery (l),and it ii intrusted to an assistant. Two other assistants support the leg horizontally, and moderately bent at the knee, the one grasping above the foot and tin other below the knee, and the latter at the same time draws up the skin moderately tight. The operator should always stand for this operation or: the inner side of the leg. [(1) The application of the tourniquet as here directed, is highly objectionable, for i must make violent pressure upon the popliteal nerve, and cause much unnecessary pain;. It should be put on immediately above the middle third of the thigh, and its pad should res- on the femoral artery, where it lies close against the inside of the thigh-bone.—J. F. S. 2719. In the amputation with the circular cut, the operator makes the skin cut, two or three fingers’ breadth, according to the size of the limb below the part where he will have to saw through the bone, in the samt manner with the straight knife, as in amputating through the thigh (l)i He then with his left thumb and forefinger takes hold of the edge ol tin skin, draws it a little up, and with sufficient strokes, separates together the whole fat and cellular tissue, all round from the fascia up to the place wherr the limb is to be removed ; the detached skin is then turned inside out, ant so kept by an assistant. The operator now grasps a straight long amputatin'; knife with his right hand, and sinking down on one knee, carries it beneatl the limb over to the inner side, places its edge close to the edge ol the retracted skin, and putting the left thumb and forefinger on the fore par; of the back of the knife, with proper pressure bears the knife towards him self and downwards, draws it circularly round the limb, rises up, and cut: the muscles through to the bone. He then takes a narrow double-edgee knife (or catlin) so that the thumb rests on that part of its handle eorre sponding to the edge, and the fore and middle fingers on that to its back* passes it under the limb, and places its edge, near the junction of the blade with the handle, upon the front of the shin-bone, carries it over the spine, and then with the point of the knife always following the bone, thrusts i from without into the interspace between the bones, down to the handld He now drops the edge of the knife upon the splint-bone, draws it, withoui leaving that bone, up out of the interosseal space around the hind surface of the splint-bone, and then thrusts it on the inside through the same spac>. up to the handle, bears it against the shin-bone, and again withdraws l upon that bone. In this way all the parts between the two bones and tht periosteum are cut through. Care must be taken in doing this, that thl point of the knife be not again pushed through the already divided muscles The muscles are now held back with a three-headed cleft cloth, of whic. the uncleft part is placed on the inside of the limb, and held by an assistant the middle head passed between the two bones, and then laid on the fro» of the leg, and the inner and outer head so drawn together over the sur face of tlie wound on the inner and outer side, and crossed with the uppe part of the middle head, that all the muscles may be covered. The assistaa now holding the cloth properly drawn together, the operator places Ins ie thumb on the edge of the shin-bone near the place where it is to be cw through, forms first a groove with the saw in the shin-bone, sufficientAMPUTATION THROUGH THE LEG, WITH CIRCULAR CUT. 917 determine its track, and then drops the saw in such way that the splint- bone may be cut through before the shin-bone. Amputation through the leg in its lower third was preferred by the Surgeons of old • and even up to the present there are some who defend its performance at this place as’ on account of the smaller size of the soft parts and of the bones, the operation is less important and dangerous, the wound heals more quickly, and a well-constructed artifi- cial foot can be more easily worn. But this latter point has been directly denied by many Surgeons; and on account of the price and of the frequent necessary repairs of such artificial feet, this place of amputation is fit only for the rich, and on account of ; the smaller wound for old persons. The ordinary mode of amputation with the circular cut is here objectionable, as it is always difficult to dissect back properly the prettv thick and adherent skin, and to turn it up for the purpose of cutting through the circular part of the limb. The skin also easily mortifies, or a badly-covered stump ■ preferaWe' T^e formatlon of a hind flap made, as now to be described, is therefore S^EMI W first “akes the semicircular cut over the front of the leg and afterwards the flap cut, by piercing the calf with the knife, which answers no purpose at all. Tro0r th® °I''cu'ar cut should be made according to Lenoir’s (b) method in the following waj .— The Surgeon standing on the inside of the limb, makes with a narrow catlin a circular cut through the skin to the fascia, about an inch and a half below where the bone is to be sawn through. With the point of the knife he makes a second cut perpen- dicular to the former an inch and a half long, along the inside of the shin-bone near ite spme Then holding the corners of the wound, one after the other, he divides the cellular tissue and its connexion with the fascia and periosteum and forms with them two flaps, which he turns back at their base. These flaps must be made as thick as pos McubP^b-0 be °7 ‘I16 fr°nt third of the leS> as the cellular bridges which con- nect the skin with the underlying parts, must be divided only behind and on the sides In this way a sort of ruffle is preserved, cleft in front, and of which the front part alone is turned back on the two sides of the shm-bone> giving to this part of the le?g an oval shape, which the knife follows in making the first cut through the muscles. "For this purpose the operator places the edge of the instrument on the outer edge of the shin bone, and carries it to the inner edge exactly following the oblique direct of thp tat ffinpebsrk tbCUtttlng ^,r0Ugh the whole thickness of the superficial layer of muscles at the back of the leg. The assistant now lifts up this muscular layer with the skin tCand When tdey have reached the P°int whe,'e the bones are to be sawn ax rSh; hei°PeKrat07mfkeS 3 second cut> Slvlng ^ a direction exactly transverse to the axis of the limb, which at once passes through to the deep layer of muscles and nfW P!er<f> “ asaa'. the interosseal space and cuts through the^ST* The refractor » then applied, and both bones sawn through at once and irf the same pile i theKTTelS are,t,ed’ the flesh brought over tbe hone, and held together5 bv a wonnrf- bandage moderately tight around the whole limb, the two lips ofethe vertical verted imofrthnt °f thf shl“-bone.are brought together with a suture, and the wound con ertcd into the circular amputation wound, which is united in the direction of d,,, „ *C°n fesrof ,he k6- ti“ pMi“‘ u th™ >»• •» a^pSr^L^rCcof bun acc'ording^o1 Jaeoer"and oL'rT'SisnSto°blfe^ f he operation must not be performed above the tuberrlp nf *1, / v,* i 0 feaied. L() mputation through the leg should be performed not more than four fingers’ m!* f lieuXleS.d PwiM827ti0n ^ to/’b?1"™0- comPr''n’>nt MMedne Operatoiro, \bUttZ* gl'n°raleS <le Mtdecine‘ *840; <*{ ^hoiet, Traitc complet dc l’Anatomie pp^S***' de Chirur«ie Militaire, vol. jii.918 DRESSING THE STUMP. breadth below the apex of the knee-cap, in working persons, on whom the operation is - most commonly performed, as the kneeling posture in the bed of the wooden leg is the' best and most useful for them ; and if the stump be of greater length, its only use is to i be in the way and be liable to injury. In persons of easy circumstances, who can afford to be idle, and are not required to be always a-foot, a long stump, by amputation a little above the ankle, if possible, which is not always, may be permissible; and they willll enjoy the movements of the knee-joint; but for useful purposes, gentle or simple, will!; find the short stump the best; for it must be remembered, that in no properly-fitting e artificial leg is the weight of the body thrown upon the end of the stump, as some Sur- geons pretend it ought to be, forgetting if it be, that a sore stump is generally the conse- quence.—J. F. S.] 2720. Tying the vessels is performed in the usual manner, but is often? difficult when the amputation is performed high up, because the vessels ■ are here collected together in a bundle. If the nutritious artery of the shin-bone bleed violently, a little ball of wax must be thrust into its • mouth (1). When the vessels are tied, the ligatures arranged, and the circum- ference of the wound dried, the edges of the skin must be brought together ■■ vertically (2), and kept in this position by strips of sticking plaster, note too tightly applied. A wad of lint and a compress are applied, and lightly ? fastened with a roller. The position of the stump must be either out- stretched or bent at the knee, according as it is intended to preserve the movements of the knee in the application of an artificial leg, or to let the? maimed person go upon the knee. The after-treatment must be directed?" according to the general rules. Although in the above-mentioned mode of amputating through the leg, the skin j merely is preserved to cover the stump, I have always found it sufficient, and have never noticed any protrusion of the bone. 1 have never seen the skin become gangrenous and burst through by the pressure of the sharp end of the shin-bone, and I therefore con- sider the recommendation of sawing it off obliquely, useless and superfluous (3). [(1) One of the most troublesome circumstances, in regard to tying the vessels in amputating high up through the leg, is when the anterior tibial artery has been divided just after it has passed through the interosseous ligament, and retracts so that it cannot be pulled out aud tied, but sometimes bleeds fiercely, especially after the posterior tibial artery has been taken up. It must then be managed, either by carefully cutting through the interosseous ligament till it can be got at and tied, which is the best mode of proceed-: ing; or by passing a needle and thread a little above the divided edge of the ligament on one side of the spot whence the bleeding issues, from before to behind, and then bring-. ing the thread back again from behind forwards on the other side of the bleeding point, and tying all contained within the loop, which sometimes answers the purpose. Dip- ping with the tenaculum, and tying all it hooks up, is not advisable, for even if it catch the artery, the ligament is also caught with it, aud the ligature cannot be made so tight as to ensure safety from after-bleeding. I have occasionally seen bleeding from the nutritious artery of the shin-bone very tiresome, but have never seen it require more than pressure for a little time till a clot is formed. If I could not so succeed, I should rather prefer applying the actual cautery than using a pellet of wax, as here recommended. (2) 1 do not think bringing the edges of the wound together vertically answers so well as horizontally ; for in the former case, the skin is not merely unsupported, as the stump rests on the pillow, but the pressure tends to make the wound gape. I therefore prefer bringing it together horizontally, by which means the hind part of the stump is supported by the pillow, and the fore part readily drops to meet it without any stress, • and even relieves the tightness of the dressings. (3) I cannot say that I have always had Chki.ius’s good fortune in regard to the skin covering the sharp end of the shiu-boue, as it has happened two or three times in my own practice, and I have occasionally noticed it in the practice of others, that .<■ the skin has been pressed on and sloughed. This generally arises from the edges wound having been drawn too tightly together, in consequence of the skin saved being of sufficient length to cover the stump properly, in whatever direction t^ wound lias been brought together; and even when sufficient and the wound has w* properly dressed for the first few times, yet occasionally the patient’s restlessness an ■AMPUTATION THROUGH THE LEG, WITH SINGLE FLAP. 919 ; some times negligent after-dressing will lead to this tiresome result. I therefore think it is better to saw off obliquely merely the projecting point of the bone, which prevents any pressure on the skin, except from great carelessness of the medical attendant in the j dressing.—J. F. S.] 2721. Amputation through the leg with a single flap, is performed in the following way. The precautions against bleeding and the position of the assistants is the same as with the circular cut. The operator standino- on the inside of the leg, places at the part where the bone is to be sawn through, the left thumb on the inner edge of the shin-bone, and the fore and middle finger upon the splint-bone, at the same time pressing the soft ; parts back to the calf. Pie now takes in his right hand a narrow double- edged knife, places its point at the part marked by the thumb, on the inner edge of the shin-bone and thrusts it deeply through the skin and . muscles, a little obliquely from within outwards and backwards till it rest upon the splint-bone. He then carries the point of the knife close behind this bone, and whilst sinking the handle a little, thrusts it through the outside of the leg, directly opposite the point of its entrance.0 The i knife is now carried far down along the hinder surface of both bones, and . then its edge being turned obliquely downwards divides the muscles and * the skin- The length of the flap must correspond to the bulk of the le°-, it i- should always be one-third of its circumference. The skin is now to *be divided on the front of the leg, half an inch below both corners of the wound by a transverse cut, and separated at the base of the flap, where it is turned upwards, and held back by an assistant, who at the same time 5 properly retracts the flaps. For the purpose of dividing whatever still i remains attached to the bones, the catlin is carried round at the base of ' the flap, exactly as in the circular cut. The doubly cleft cloth is now ; put on, and the sawing of the bones performed as after the circular cut. ' a ■ t1h?Jvessels have been properly secured and the wound cleansed, the ; Hap is laid up over the surface of the wound, and brought close to the . edge of the skin ; in which position it is kept by straps of sticking plaster i passing from behind to before, and from side to side. Some turns of a r roller are made about the stump, the flap covered with lint, a cross band- age applied over the stump, and its ends fastened with a continuation ot the circular bandage, some turns of which are carried from behind for- f wards over the stump. who. ,htve thiek calves the knife is not to be thrust close behind the bones * or the flap would be too thick and could not be placed properly upwards Graefe (a’\ S “'d * p,!CU,mr kni& f°r this of holMng ou.bhe inner [ [I have already mentioned (par. 2709 note) the reasons on which I obieet to \ TfT] “ the leg’ aDd Why 1 think the “rcular opmttan Lf X ir t]Z0U°hfie leZWlth two flaps "-as first proposed by I'-^ch outer wm’I t Lr ? that.tW° WOunded Slirfaces applied to I Wed bvRot M ? U Um0D 5 U ha* been “veral times per- * tised ft in Germany * (<0 Pr°P°Sed and Weinhold first P«* ■ cuhl2t tmpUtati°n th;°agh the leg with tvvo flaPs is ”ot without diffi- ' two sides of tSheUeue ° / reqUal disP°sition of the soft Pa^s on the the ttvlf 1 ^f’ and °f the une9ual size and not parallel position of f ) ones- -^° peculiar advantage is obtained from this operation |« VS "" * *££78*- P‘- S Vw l Londroa, * „ ’ (</) Above cited, p. 50. r920 AMPUTATION THROUGH THE LEG, WITH TWO FLAPS. and it is decidedly less preferable than the circular or than the ordinary;, flap-cut. It is performed in the following way. The skin is drawn as muehli as possible inwards, the double-edged narrow knife thrust in close on the inner edge of the shin-bone vertically in such direction that the point should come out on the back of the leg, rather outwards, and as close* as possible to the splint-bone. The knife is then carried down along the* bones and forms a flap about three fingers’ breadth in length. Both, corners of the wound are then drawn as far out as possible, the knife placed*; in the upper corner, and being thrust in at the outer edge of the shin-bone,*, so that it runs over the outside of the splint-bone into the lower corner oil the wound, forms a second, corresponding in length to the first flap. The* flaps being now held back by an assistant, the operator cuts through as- in the former manner with the catlin, whatever remains attached to the- bones; applies the double cleft cloth and saws through the bones. The* dressing is to be performed as in the flap-amputation through the thigh.i If the skin be so firmly attached on the front of the shin-bone that it cannot be re- moved as directed, a vertical cut must be made into it upon the shin-bone, and the edges of this cut drawn inwards and outwards. The outer flap may also be first formed by a semi-oval cut, which beginning on the spine of the shin-bone terminates in the middle of the calf, by obliquely penetrating through the skin and muscles, and separates the above-mentioned flap to its base, whilst all the soft parts are carefully detached from the bones. The inner flap is formed by placing the knife in the upper corner of the wound and thrusting it through the lower, and by drawing the knife down from within outwards. [Liston performs his amputations of the leg with two flaps, “ at one of two points according to the circumstances of the patient, the bones being sawn either about mid- way betwixt the knee and ankle, or close to their upper ends. (p. 379.) The ends of the bone when sawn high, are not exposed to pressure, and then there is less occasion for a muscular cushion. A sort of anterior flap should be made below the knee, but it is short and thin; the principal covering is obtained from behind, and the incisions must be so contrived that the edges and surfaces shall correspond. A proper fleshy cushion cannot be got lower than the middle of the leg. * * * When the right linib is the subject of operation, the point of the knife having been entered on the outside behind the fibula, is drawn upwards along the posterior border of that bone, with a gentle sawing motion for about a couple ot inches, the direction of the incision is then changed, the knife being drawn across the fore part of the limb, in a slightly curved direction, the convexity pointing towards the foot; this incision terminates on the inner side of the limb, and from this point the knife is pushed behind the bones and made to emerge near the top of the first incision, the flap is then completed. All this is done smoothly and continuously without once raising the knife from the limb. _ T be inter- osseous muscular and ligamentous substances are cut; the anterior flap is drawn bac , and its cellular connexions slightly divided ; both are held out of the way by the han s of the assistant, and the separation completed with the saw. By proceeding thus, at risk is avoided of entangling the knife "with the bones, or betwixt them.. In dealing with the left limb, the proceeding is very similar; the internal incision is not made quite so long; but it should still be practised, for a longitudinal opening of about an inch or more in extent is more easily found in the transfixion, than the mere point at which the anterior incision is commenced. * * * Amputation close to the joint K performed precisely in the same manner ; the incisions being made so that thejib’ila is exposed, and sawn immediately below its head, the tibia dose to the tuberosity. * i The flan-oneration may occasionally require to be modified. )\lien muscular plethoric The flap-operation may occasionally require to be modified. When muscular pletnonc subiects meet with sudden and severe accidents, which demand immediate amputation, •J i 1*1 • ' l 1 ./V *1,.. ««« linLln ♦ a L-n null rAlDi the large quantity of muscle which is necessarily left in the flap is liable to suppurate, to retard very much the patient’s recovery, and sometimes to produce dangerous con sequences. In such cases I have performed the following operation. Supposing th left lee to be injured, with a common amputating knife an interior semilunar incision tVl!h° „Zhthe sk n. commencing from the inner side of the Ulna, about four fingers made through the skin, commencing I breadth below its superior extremity, ana passing ove, ns „ semihinar indsion is made at the posterior part of the leg, its extremities joining the921 AMPUTATION JUST ABOVE THE ANKLE. bones of the previous incision. The integument is then reflected upwards to a sufficient extent to cover the bones, and the operation finished after the manner of the circular amputation. In fact, this operation differs from the circular only in the form of the in- cision through the integuments.” (p. 379-82.) Fergusson’s mode of operating differs from Liston’s in the front flap being shorter. He thus describes it:—“ The heel of the instrument (an amputating knife seven inches long) should be laid on the side of the leg furthest from the Surgeon, and the blade should then be drawn across the front, cutting the semilunar flap of skin, until its point come opposite to where the edge was first laid on ; without raising the instrument, transfixion should next be made behind the bones, and the rest of the proceedings con- ducted as in other instances, (p. 398.) In whatever part of the limb the incisions are made I invariably preserve a semilunar flap in front, varying in length, in different cases from half an inch to an inch. I prefer this to the straight incision across the front, recommended by Mr. Hey, believing that the opposite surfaces will thus fit more accurately to each other.” (p. 400.)] [The ordinary place of amputating through the leg is, as already mentioned, a little below the knee, but formerly the AMPUTATION JUST ABOVE THE ANKLE was commonly practised, though now laid aside, and very rarely performed: it how- ever requires some notice. ’ The Dutch Surgeon, Solingen, advocated the preservation of as much of the leg as possible, and that the amputation should be performed immediately above the ankle • so hv lb” urnfi°la J°0t Wlth1narr0w steel P^tes might be screwed on to the sides of the leg, /’ n,! he ^blf.t0 Ya k as well as on that which he brought into the world with him Ana uiONis (a) is of the same opinion, advising the cutting off a leg as low as pos- witPTxred Te fil‘d ^selves able to preserve the motion of the knee.” (p 407 ) seenT tnf Man<:hester W als0 took 11P this practice in 1761, in consequence of having little eb "e yfr “,a woman who, twenty years before, had her leg taken off I o make her^waonkrlC’ 7 eT® °f her bro*er> who was a carpenter, and had promised mitnto't H .i - , den le6 of hls own contrivance. The Surgeon at first refused to am- ennc t w h.IS P ace; but belng told if he wpukl not, they would apply to another he shifffoine-^ d° 11 ,C0°trary t0 hls own opinion. The operation was performed by ’the ngle incision, and the stump was twelve months in healing.” (p. 169 ) He mentions over foe orff Wh’Ch h? PerTf°n1ned tbis operation, and was fully satisfied of its superiority followed 0’Ha7t m0< e.' his earlier cases he employed a double flap, but afterwards ° I an 8 (c) mode with a single flap, dressing it and the face of the Ba7Ti'iSmnra// WC|Undf’ andi n°- applyhlg the flap ti!1 the twelfth or fourteenth day. ba!lng noticed (about the year 1740) how well a woman nf tfo W hl f l08t both her feet and about three inches of the lower ends of the bones below fl'oskbltes’ ,m hls lectures, recommended “ the operation, when made was however6’ ^ ^ f "‘gh tbe ankl[\aS tbe nature of the case would admit of.” He lo^c • ’ lnduced t0 withdraw this recommendation from “some eminent Sur maile ’v SU,nng b"n * wou]d be impossible to heal the stump if the ampuSn was made very low ; for the tendons or their theca would slough, and most likelv a second o2eTZ\ZttheCO™ "riSS'?y-" (P' 1830 These absurdities, howeverfwere dis oroied by some cases in which the operation was performed hv a nnnil nf bio s, n which rnalirf, -Vu practlce in consequence of “ some cases occurring, ■tity of resting his^mip<on8fo Ur6 & °°mplete healing, and give foe patient an opportu- nist convenient ” fp ynfir,?0"/00' 6'' leg> or uslng a socket, as he might find I , ' (P' •,40-) He therefore amputated through the middle of the leg lion. KcUbof' 17rO™t'°nS 4e C*lirurB'e- Trans, a- (,■) A complete Treatise on Gangrene and (ft) An Account of a new method of Amnutatim? Vrfwn’!’ W1T " “®w met!‘od of Amputation. >e [.eg a little above the Ankle-joint *7' in \ [;lllr"rK'™l (ll'^'rvatn.t's and Cases, vol. i. ^Ied.cal Observations and Inquiries, vol iv EdiUon ; 0bservttt,ons on Surg®ry- Second922 REPORT OF AMPUTATIONS THROUGH THE LEG. ■with a single flap from the gastroenemial muscles, making, as I consider, a very incon- venient stump. Solingen’s operation had thus, in fact, gone completely out of use till, about two or three years since, Lawrence performed it successfully on a young gentleman who had had his foot crushed. Having become acquainted with this, and having a young woman under my care with scrofulous disease of the foot which she did not object to part with, though she was indisposed to lose her leg, I determined to practise it, and accordingly on March 9, 1844, I amputated three inches above the ankle-joint with a single flap from the back of the leg with as much muscle as I could get upon the knife, but the principal part of the flap consisted of the Achilles’ tendon. Four arteries were tied, and the flap fixed with three sutures and a wet cloth applied for twenty hours, when my assistant removed the sutures and applied straps of plaster. The wound healed very slowly, and had not scarred till after twelve months, when it made a very good stump, and she walks very well on an artificial foot. The course of this case, its tediousness, , and the expense of the apparatus satisfy me, though it might be advantageously em- ployed with persons in easy circumstances, that it is not a fit operation for those who have to labour for their living. In the accompanying report of fourteen amputations below the knee, it will be seen that nine were primary for accidents, mostly very severe, of which two died, and seven i survived; the other five operations for disease, in two of which a very small portion of the spine of the shin-bone exfoliated, all terminated favourably, so that the deaths i on the whole number was only 14* 3per cent. Liston’s (a) reported cases of amputation through the leg are twenty ; of these two were primary, and two secondary, for accidents, all four recovered; one in whom primary amputation, and a few days after, secondary of the other leg, fatal; nine for scrofulous disease of the ankle, two for disease of the foot, one for necrosis, one lor osteosarcoma, one for ulcerated stump, all which fourteen recovered; and one for ulcer of the leg, who died. Hence the deaths on the whole number were 10 per cent. These accounts do not confirm Lawkie’s (b) statement that “ of the more common amputations, that below the knee is least favourable.” Neither do they sustain his rule of practice, “in all cases except those of necessity (not a very comprehensible expres- sion, J. F. s.) to abandon the operation below the knee.” (p. 398.)] (a) Potter; in Med.-Chir. Trans., above cited. (6) London Medical Gazette, above cited. Report of Fourteen Amputations through the Leg, from the Year 1835 to 1840, inclusive. Accident or Disease. j Opernted on 1836 Severe laceration of the May 4. aged 36 (sailor), admitted May 4. muscles of the foot, and Six hourb the inner pluntar artery after tom, consequent on leg falling on the fluke of an anchor. Occident. 183T John .lames. aged 52, admitted April II. Remarks. Fungous ulcer on heel, of April 28. eight months. By circular cut; six arteries tied; integuments scanty, and could not be well brought toge- ther. Eight hours after, free bleeding, and three more arteries taken up. Except having restless night*, lie went on very well till the fourteenth night, when the stump was exceed- ingly painful ; and on the following morning about half an ounce of arterial blood was dis- charged from the wound, but stopped by a little pressure. Next afternoon the bleeding recurred in a jet to four or six ounces; the bleeding part was therefore cleared of clot, but no vessel could be found ; no more bleeding occurred till early on the twenty-second morning, and then to such extent as to render him faint; and ibis recurred twice in the course of seven hours, but only in small quantity. The wound was laid open and left till night, when as there was no more bleeding it was dressed. On the twenty-third day he bled again ; the granula- tions surrounding the ligature, by the side of which the blood flowed, were separated, and a little cavity, as large as a nut, found linevl with a polished membrane: and at its highest part nn aperture, ns large as a pin-hole, through which the blood flowed. This little sac could not be separated from the surrounding parts, a probe was therefore passed Into the hole up the artery, and being fell externally, the skin was cut through, ana the artery tied an inch above the face of the stump. ?Jo more bleed- ing after this, and he went on very well. With tingle Jlap of m. gattrocncmii; three arte- ries titd; much difficulty in securing the anterior tibinl, which retrncted nearly through the interosseous ligament. The flap brought together with three suiurcs and straps of plaster; the sutures removed after forty-eight hours. Dis- charged. June 20. DietREPORT OF AMPUTATIONS THROUGH THE LEG. 923 1S3T continued. ieorge Powell, Hged 22 (towing- rope man), ad- mitted June 4. 1S3S umes Trussler, •iged 27 (excava- tor), admitted lan. 12. lomas Berridee. -ged 44 (ware :ou*eman), ad- lifted April 10. 1839 rnard Lane, fd 54 (porter) imitted Jan. 31. Stilt aged (labourer),ad- dled March 2. Cartwright, '^(labourer), itted May 28. Hattam, " 57. admitted pt. 10. Accident or Disease. Severe laceration of lower part of left leg, and crushing of the lower end of both its bones, by transit of train of steam- carriages. Compound fracture of tarsal bones of left foot, with large laceration and wound of ankle- joint, by transit of steam-carriage on rail- road. Operated Strumous abscesses in the ligaments of the tarsus and metatarsus, of seven months’ dur tion. Compound fracture of the right leg, with protru- sion of the shin-bone; consequent on bag of wool falling upon him. On the second evening there was slight urterial bleeding, which recurred on the slightest move- ment, nna continued. The wound became gangrenous on the third day ; and seemed likely to spread, ns he was fast hurrying into a typhoid state. Compound flrncture of left leg, with severe lacera- tion, and the shin-bone protruding, Croat de- pression on his admis- sion. Ulccrntion of cartilages of the tarsal and metatar- sal joints of the left foot ; consequent on sprain fifteen months since. Dry gangrene of toes of right foot. Jon.12. Three hours and a-hall after accident. June 2. Feb. 2. Midnight Fifty- seven hours after accident March 3 Twenty- six hours after accident. June 15. Nov. 2fl. Remarks. Dis- charged. July 11. May 29. Sept. 18 June 4. With circular cut; the muscles did not retract at An hour all ; three arteries tied; did not lose much after. blood, but was much prostrated by the opera- tion ; edges of wound brought together trans- versely, and three sutures put in ; the latter removed at sixty-nine hours. On the ninth day the middle of the wound sloughy ; and the skin having been pressed on the spine of the shin-bone, had a small gangrenous spot on it; suffered much from pain in the stump. On the fifteenth day this had cleared off, but the stump was still sloughy, and the absorbents up the thigh had inflamed. In the evening of thiB day had severe pain at the pit of stomach, which subsided after cupping. A small bit of bone exfoliated from the spine of the shin- bone. With single flap of m. gastrocnemii; six arteries tied; too much muscle and too little skin, therefore part of the former left protruding, and the rest supported with two sutures and plaster; sutures removed at forty-two hours, and a small vessel which had continued oozin^, was tied. On the seventh day the wound was sloughy, and there was slight arterial bleeding ; on the eleventh a sudden gush of arterial blood, to the amount of half-a-pint, occurred, which depressed him very much ; the flap was therefore opened, and a cavity found behind the interosseous ligament, which bad been formed by a muscular branch in the flap bleed- ing into this part when the flap had been brought to its place ; it was tied, and the bleed- ing ceased. On the forty-seventh day a small piece of the end of the spine exfoliated. With circular cut; he suffered excessively during the operation, and in sawing through the bone more than I had ever witnessed. The muscles did not retract; did not lose above two or three ounces of blood ; three arteries tied, and ed-'es of wound brought together obliquely with strips of plaster ; an hour after verv free drip- ping of blood, and on opening stump five more were taken up; the stump left open, and six hours after three more, after which the wound was brought together with strips of plaster. With the circular cut; very free bleeding at the operation; three arteries and the posterior tibial vein tied ; the wound brought together horizontally with straps of plaster. He im- proved at first after the operation ; but on the evening of the fourth day after the operation, became suddenly and violently delirious. On the fifth he began to vomit frequently, and the stumn was sloughy; next day he was better. On the eighth day was attacked with trismus, nnd could scarcely swallow even his spittle • the muscles between the lower jaw and hyoid bone wereviolently contracted, and the latter forcibly pulled up between the branches of the former. On the ninth had some severe spnsms about the throat like those of a hydrophobic patient when about to drink. On the tenth day became tm deJth l0tamC’ ‘n Whlch 8tate hc continued With circular cut; lost very little blood; two May 29 arteries only tied; wound brought togethc? V horizontally, with a single strap*5 of plater- the dressing completed four hours after with ulnstcr. Part of the stripped-up skin had been used for the covering, but this alounho 1 as dul afterwards the whole of the skin snved • the wound healed kindly by granulation. ' With circular cut; five arteries tied, and two Aim 27 more two how. nfteroa'd,. Tm hour,\ftor g' the operation the wound mi brought together horizontally, and fixed with fou? pin, and twisted suture ; these wore removed after fifty. cS^Z^a-haVl •“*“ »f'^ ^itlnn '“Si Ccl ’ r°Ur "r'<'r'<''‘ ticd ">0 <>Pe- Feb. 4. ration, nnd four more seven hours after, and tn another hour n ninth, and then the stump dressed with plaster. Free oozing of bloodv scrum for several dnys. On the tenth day the greater part of the sic in covering the face of tho stump was sloughy ; ten days after tho line ot demarcation became distinct, and heulthv nits secreted. The wound afterwards granu- lated kindly ns her hcnlth improved, but had not healed when she left. Feb. 12. Ten dnys after tho operation.AMPUTATION THROUGH THE UPPER ARM. 924 •'Ti 1S39 continued. Jesse Gooderich, aged 15£, admit- ted Sept. 20. 1840 James Neal, aged IS, admitted Jan. 18. William Shearing, aged 33 (actor), admitted Feb. 4. Philip Jas. Punch, aged 14, admitted May 23. Michael Daly, aged 38, admit- ted May 20. Accident or Disease, Severe laceration of the skin and muscles of the left foot and ankle ; con- sequent on wheel of rail- carriage passing over it. Severe laceration of the skin and muscles of the upper part of the calf of the leg nnd fracture of the fibula; consequent on being caught in a tobacco-cutting engine. Operated Sept. 20 Seven hours after accident. Jan. 18. Three hours and a-half after accident. Ulceration of the leg and partial -pea equinus after compound fracture of the right leg four years Compound fracture of the riglit tursal-bones nnd inner ankle, with great laceration of the soft parts, nnd the posterior tibial artery nnd nerve torn through at ankle ; consequent on being caught between the spring and wheel of a locomotive carriage. Remarks. With circular cut; six arteries tied; wound brought together horizontally with straps of plaster ; no irritative fever. With flap from inside of leg; removed the broken fibula at its joint ; seven arteries nnd the posterior tibial vein tied, and soon after an- other artery was tied; a single strap was put on, and the wound dressed properly eight hours after. On fifteenth day some bleeding, from one of the ligatures having been dragged accident- ally ; on the next day bled again, from a little superficial vein, and at each of the two following dressings. One of the ligatures re- maining fust, a whalebone spring was put on it on the thirty-ninth day ; it came away three days after. On the fifty-first day some swelling upon the m. vastus ini emus, which he says has been coming on a few days, it fluctuated ; was left alone, and filled the whole of the front sheath of the fascia lata. On the hundredth and second day this was punctured, and a pint and a half of pus discharged. The abscess filled again, pointed at the great trochanter twelve days after, and two pints of pus dis- charged by puncture. A fortnight after, when the discharge of pus had nearly ceased, the upper part of the thigh was attacked with erysipelas, which spread over the loins and back, on the left side of the bellv, and did not subside for a week ; after this he slowly recovered. May 23. Four hours after accident. Compound frncture of led leg; the shin-bone com- minuted ; skin cut clean, but the muscles much lncerutcd; consequent on locomotive carringo- whccl pussing over. May 26. Four hours and a-half after accident. With flap of the m. gastrocncmii; four arteries tied, nnd bleeding still continuing three hours alter, five more were tied, and the face of the stump left open. Bight hours from the operation three more arteries were tied, and the wound brought together with straps of plaster. Went on well, but slowly ; excepting that one ligature would not come away, and, therefore, on the forty-seventh day, a whale- bone spring was put on; but two days after the ligature broke off short and remained. With circular cut, and side cuts; two arteries tied ; and the wound brought together at once with straps of plaster horizontally. With circular cut and side-cuts ; six arteries tied ; venous bleeding great; wound brought toge- ther at once with straps of plaster. An hour after, bleeding came on. and two more arteries were tied , but It continued, nnd seven hours after seven other arteries were tied, hive horns after, the bleeding continued to the amount of twelve ounces, and three more arteries were tied. The stump was then left open, and not dressed with plaster till twenty six hours after the operation. On the fourth day the edge of the skin was sloughy, and the whole face of the stump became so afterwards; on the fol- lowing day irritntivc fever set in. Dis- charged. Died July 18. t- fr. HI.—OF AMPUTATION THROUGH THE UPPER-ARM. (Amputalio Brachii, Lat.; Amputation des Oberarmes, Germ.; Amputation du Bras, w 2724. Amputation through the upper-arm may be performed with the circular cut or with flaps, and both are performed in the same way a" ' the thigh. The patient is placed on a chair, and the upper-arm separa from the trunk, so as to form a right angle. If the amputation be perj formed in the lower third, or in the middle of the arm, the brae n^ artery must be compressed by an assistant in its upper third. If the a * putation be performed in the upper third, the subclavian artery mus compressed above the clavicle against the first rib.REPORT OF AMPUTATIONS THROUGH THE UPPER-ARM. 925 [In amputating through the upper arm it is always advisable to make the stump as long as possible; as thereby an artificial arm is better fixed, and is rendered more useful. In the accompanjing report five of the amputations through the upper arm were primary, and one secondary for accidents; all recovered, but in two of them a narrow nng of bone exfoliated. Liston’s amputations through this limb are seven, of which one was primary for accident and lived; four for scrofulous disease of elbow, of whom two died; one for disease of elbow consequent on burn, and one for senile gangrene, both of whom re- covered. Thus, the deaths on the whole number were 28 • 5 per cent.] Report of Six Amputations through the Upper Arm, from the Year 1835 to 1840, inclusive. 1835 Edward Walpole, aged 31 (wag- foner), admitted eb. 9. Accident or Disease. 1836 ifeJames Cook, aged .- 8$, admitted July .25. Gangrene of fore- and tipper- arm, consequent on a blow from a box ten days since on the former. Was fast sink- ing at the time of opera- tion, in consequence of irritative fever and diar- rhoea. lurtagh Downing, aged 20 (machine ’.'boy), admitted -Wf Sept. 8. 1838 Daniel Edwards, ged 50 (excavu- Uor), admitted Feb. 22. illiam Beevcrs, Jged27 (stoker), dmitted Feb. 23. 1810 § »hn Hall, aged 4. admitted Feb. Severe lnceration of skin and muscles around the elbow, consequent on re- ceiving the discharge of a carronade close by him. Said not to have lost much blood. The radius was fractured, but the brachial artery and el- bow-ioint were unin- jured. Compound fracture of the left olechranon, with wound into joint, and extensive laceration of the skin and muscles; consequent on having been caught by the drum-strap of a print- ing-machine. Severe laceration of skin of the back of the hand, and of adducting mus- cle* of the thumb, con- sequent on earth-slip falling on him. A fort- night after, great suppu- ration, irritative fever, and erysipelas came on, which extended above the elbow ; sloughing of cellular tissue of fore- arm. Troubled much with cough, and bowels very lax ; and he became much exhausted. Bleed- ing to the amount of two ounces from nn artery near the wrist. Extensive laceration of the ■ kin of the right fore- arm, with some lacera- tion of muscles, nnd the skin separated some dis- tance abovo the elbow, consequent on being jammed between steam- engine shaa and deck- timbers. Compound fracture of the right upper and fore- arm, with severe lacera- tion of soft parts, conse- quent on cnrt-whecl having pnssed over the arm whilst fallen on a rail-road. Operated Feb. 17. Eighteen days afte accident. July 25, Two hours after accident. Sept. 3. Two hours after accident. April 17. Filty-four days after accident. Feb. 23. Nine hours a fter accident. Feb. 17. Nino hours after accident. Remarks. With circular cut through insertion of m. coraco- brachialis; the parts all so glued together that the skin could not be retracted, but was dissected up. A portion of sloughy skin was included in the cut, which also divided a sinus close to the bone. Pour arteries were tied : wound brought together with straps of plaster. Felt better next day, but on third day had hic- cough, with cold sweats ; these, however, soon subsided. On fourth day the bone protruded ; on the following day was attacked with ery- sipelas of the ears and face ; on the eighth day was delirious, but better on the tenth, and then steadily improved. On the thirty-eighth day a ring of bone was easily removed, and soon after the bone was covered with granulations, which skinned slowly, and the wound had not healed when he left. With circular cut, just above insertion of m. del- toides; lour arteries tied ; the brachial exceed- ingly small; the wound was dressed with straps of plaster four hours after ; went on very well, and in a month the wound healed, except opposite an edge of bone which seemed likely to exfoliate, but it did not, and the bone was completely covered before he left. With circular cut through insertion ofm.del- toides, but some of tiie detached skin was used to coyer the stump, as there was not enough without. Three arteries were tied, and the wound brought together with three sutures and strups of plaster; sutures removed at seventy-two hours. About the tenth day there was a little sloughing at the edge of the de tached skin. With circular cut, and two side cuts; five arteries tied; very little blood lost ; three hours after the wound was brought together with straps ol plaster ; went on well lor a fortnight, then flagged, but soon rallied. Dis- charged. April 19. Sept. 17. B'nar“tcd .kin, and a circular cut through ihemu.clos, about middlo of arm • d rl r;;Tlct “> four arteries S bought together with two .utures, and »ix hours utter, dressing, com- at /bWu "1 P" °f i sutures Amoved ^-uST;yris,m,,om,ou8hcd' "nd ihe Wctei:^al CUl- in mi,Vin»? which, the mus. 5 d bcen ""Plated benenth from the ■Kin, burst out, and beenmo tightly girt bv it- w°rc tied ; u M,n8,c Put on, and the drensmg completed with straps or Hflcr.- 0n 'bo fourth day Kohl hVkrn C0T'nK U,e ,,umP "•»» sloughy, amt afterwards separated; the bone protruded, and nbout two months after the operation a narrow ring of bone was removed Nov. 1. June 5. April 10. April EB.[ 926 ] (n) Klein, above cited, p. 46. IV.—OF AMPUTATION THROUGH THE FORE-ARM. (Amputatio Antebrachii, Lat.; Amputation des Vorderarmes, Germ.; Amputation de l’Avant-Bras, Fr.) 2725. The fore-arm may be amputated with the circular cut, with two or with one flap. The patient either sits on a chair or lies near the edge of his bed. The brachial artery is compressed by an assistant, or with a., tourniquet, in the middle of the upper-arm ; the fore-arm held by one> assistant at its lower, by another at its upper part horizontally, and in an position between pronation and supination ; the latter assistant at the samei time drawing back the skin moderately tight. The operator places him- self on the outer side for the right, and on the inner side for the left arm. 2726. The practice with the circular cut is precisely the same as that for amputation through the leg. Both bones must be sawn through at once. Amputation with a single flap is performed with the flap on the inner (front) surface of the arm. At the part where the bone is to be sawn through, the narrow double-edged knife is to be placed vertically upon the radius, and whilst with the fingers of the left hand the skin and muscles are drawn inwards (forwards), the knife is passed vertically on the inside (front) of the bones, so that its point may project on the ulnar side, directly' opposite the point of entrance ; it is then carried down along both bones,- and with its edge inclined outwards (forwards) cuts out. The length of the flap must depend on the thickness of the fore-arm (par. 2721.) Upon the back of the fore-arm and a finger’s breadth from the two angles of the 4 wound, the skin is to be cut through with a transverse cut, dissected back to the angles, and the operation completed as in the flap-amputation of' the leg. If two flaps be made, the first is to be formed as just mentioned, the knife is then placed in the upper angle of the cut, carried on the outer (hind) surface of the bones into the lower angle and then forms a second flap corresponding to the first in length. Both are then held back, so that whatever remains attached to the bones, and the interosseous membrane, may be divided as in amputation of the leg. The doubly cleft cloth is then applied and the bones sawn through. In amputating through the fore-arm there should be, as through the leg, sufficient skin to cover the ends of the bones completely. After the circular cut, three or four ligatures are usually sufficient for tying the ves- sels, and of these, the interosseal artery requires the pressure on the brachial artery to be relieved, so that its mouth may be seen. In single flap-amputation tying the vessels is more tiresome, and with two flaps even eleven arteries may be tied (a). [Not unfrequently in flap-amputations through the fore-arm, the muscles retract less than the skin after division, and consequently the tendons are often left projecting ana cannot be properly got in, on closing the wound. When this happens, as it does nios usually in the lower third of the fore-arm they should be shortened about an inch witn a the knife. It must also be recollected, that the ends of the radial and ulnar arteries are to be’ looked for at the edge of the front flap, and sometimes the muscles will have retracted from them so much that they actually stand out, and for the moment may oe mistaken for little tendons. . Amputation through the fore-arm should always be made as near the wrist as pt sible, so that the socket of any kind of artificial hand may have better hold. The amputations I have performed through the fore-arm were only five; ot was primary for accident, and four for scrofulous and other diseases. I have notREPORT OF AMPUTATIONS THROUGH THE FORE-ARM. 927 included another amputation through the fore-arm for accident, as the patient, Henry • Parker, has been already mentioned (p. 914) among the fatal cases of amputation through the thigh., This second operation was performed twenty-six hours after the accident. Liston’s cases were six, of which four were for scrofulous disease; one for encepha- loid disease of the hand; one for painful stump, all of which recovered.] ► Report of Five Amputations through the Fore-Arm from the Year 1835 to 1840 inclusive. Accident or Disease. Operatec on Remarks. Dis- charged. 1S3T i Samuel Winter, & “ged 68 (la- < bourer), ndtnit- 1 ted June 20. Scrofulous disease of right wrist-joint, of eighteen months. July 21. With two flaps just above m. pronator quadratus three arteries were tied, and the flaps brought together with three sutures and strips°of plaster. In the evening felt severe smarting in the stump ; became siclcish, and constantly retching; about four hours after vomited pro- lusely, and the smarting subsided. Sutures removed at forty-four hours. Sept. 9. 13 3S 5f Thomas Young, f aged 42 (water- i man), admitted March 24. Contraction of the muscles of the hand and fingers after diffuse cellular in- flammation, nine months since March 31. With two flaps; two'artcries tied , flaps brought togetherwith four sutures and straps of plaster- sutures removed at forty-six houra. Attacked with vomiting on third day, but not continued On fourth day stump attacked with erysipelas’ which subsided after two days. On twentv- sveth day a whalebone spring applied to the remaining ligature, which would not come off out after ",<!ar,n£ for tcn days it was pulled May 8. 1839 Henry Brewer, aged 36, admitted t Sept. 10. Scrofulous ulcers on right hand, with stiff fingers Disease first showed itself twenty-one months since. Oct. 10. With two flaps; five arteries were tied, and the wound brought togetherwith straps of plaster • but free oozing continuing, it was opened again! and two more arteries were tied ; the dress- ing left for a few hours. Nov. 16. 1840 Benjamin Neal. • aged admit- ted Jan. 17. Compound fracture of the first three melacnrpal bones,and severe lacera- tion of the skin and muscles. Jan. 18. Twenty- bur hours afler accident. With two flaps; four arteries tied ; the flaps brought together with straps of plaster live hours after. March 3. William Dodds, - aged 35 (tailor), i admitted May 19. Medullary sarcoma of right radius; first com- menced four months since. July 18. With two flaps; five arteries were tied ; the venous bleeding very free, as the veins’were very bulky. Flaps brought together with plaster three hours after. Nov. 24. AMPUTATION THROUGH THE METATARSAL AND METACARPAI BONES. Ampntatio Metatarsi et Metacarpi, Lat.; Amputation der Mittelfuss- iind Mittelhand- knochen, Germ.; Amputation des Os du Metatarse et du Metacarpe, Fr.) 2727. Amputation through the metatarsal bones is differently Der »rmed, according as the metatarsal bone of the great or little toe or of "ore ^ rem°Ved ' a”d aCCOrding “ the S°ft I!,'!0Urnlq,rl S!10;J!‘I ht a5plie!l above thc knce ar,tl intrusted to one sistant; another holds the foot, and a third draws the toes asunder 979«tie? 18 t0 be placed M in amputation through the leg. fAmPutatl°n through the metatarsal hone of the great toe is ner r£ lfferf Way8’ aCC°rdin& as the ^ndition of the soft part admffs 97oo re°n, °f‘an lnner> uPPer> or under flap. 1 olis onfall 7ft be formed from the sole, the operator, when the left gT?8 the great t0e’ and draws inwards, whilst an - ant draws the next toe outwards ; but if the right foot be operated on UZZITr tHe SeC?nd rpe and draws 11 outwards whilst an assistant S | eonl th mWafdS; ?! knife is now carried between the toes »-i here i/i« t ? * outflde of the great metatarsal bone, to the part I? o e sawn through. The knife is next placed on the innerAMPUTATION THROUGH 928 side of the bone, at like height with the angle of the first cut, near th< lower edge of the bone, and makes, as it is drawn out along the under sur face of the metacarpal bone, to its junction with the toe, a cut which sepa rates the soft parts. The two cuts are now united by a transverse om running over the dorsal surface of the metatarsal bone about two finest below the angles of the two wounds ; and a second transverse cut on the. sole connects the front angles of both side cuts. 1 he two flaps thus bounded are separated from the bone as far as the upper angle of the sid. cut, turned back and held by an assistant, who at the same time .draw* back the skin on the dorsal surface of the foot as far as possible, whilst tin operator pulling the toe well inwards, away from the otheis, caniesa nar. row knife upon the back of the foot into the angle of the outer cut betweei the two bones, guides its edge towards the great metatarsal bone, cut: thron'd) the tendon, which he fixes with the thumb of his left hand, anc carries the knife at the edge of the retracted skin, over the dorsal surfac.: of the foot inwards, to cut through everything remaining attached to tin bone. The knife is then passed from the sole, between the two bones, ant carried along the edge of the retracted flap upon the under surface of the bone inwards. All the soft parts having been thus divided, are held back by a cleft cloth, and a thin splint being passed between the two metatarsal bones and held by an assistant, the bone is sawn through with i bow saw at the edge of the retracted skin. The bleeding is stanched either by tying the vessels or by cold water-j and after the wound has been properly cleansed, the flap is laid up over the bone in such way that its front edge is brought in close to the edge of the skin on the dorsal surface of the foot, and here fixed by severe, straps of sticking plaster applied from the sole. The edges of the wounc on the second metatarsal bone are also brought together with sticking plaster Cutting through the tendon is often very troublesome; it is best done by tin the pointSof the knife between it and the bone, with the edge toward the tendon, up to the broad part of the blade. 2730 When the condition of the soft parts requires the flap to be mad* on the inner side of the metatarsal bone of the great toe the skin then must be drawn inwards with the thumb and forefinger of the left hand, straight knife thrust in vertically on the outer edge of the bone about finger’s breadth from its tarsal junction its point carried on the iMidefl. the bone to the sole, and pushed through. The knife is then came - along the bone, on its inner edge, to its junction with the great toe, an cuts out obliquely. A cut lengthwise between the great and next me^ tarsal bone is now made in the same manner as in the former ciue, continued to like height with the flap-cut; the flap is then held back, « knife placed in the upper angle of the longitudinal cut betwee , ®f the bones, and carried over the back of the metatarsal bone to the anS.le flan-cut The knife is next passed in below, between the bones, and ca round semicircidarly, in the sole, to the lower angle of the Sub the division of all the soft parts still remaining att^hedjo the bo^ J The cleft cloth ’ completed. th having been now applied, the bone is saw»| through in the same way as directed in the former case, and after t le 1 J tali been stanehed, the Hep b laid down over the bone on «Jith spending wound-surface of the second metatarsal bone, confi plaster, and dressed as already mentioned.929 THE METATARSAL BONES. Where the condition of the bone permits, it is best sawn through obliquely from within ItwnWi!’ S0 a!-t ie $ut, surface may correspond with the inner edge of the foot, by ■w hich the projection of the stump of the bone is prevented. In doing this, the lon- mn^oTtb^fl betWfn tile+.tW0 metatarf1 bones should end half an inch below the begin- P C!l!’ aDC ‘I16 UPP®r. and lower cuts trough the skin, tendons, and perios- InTtl i ® he, tW° longitudinal cuts, carried obliquely from the one to Brother and the bone sawn through in a corresponding direction (a). ’ 2731. When it is requisite to make the flap on the dorsal surface of the metatarsal bone of the great toe, a cut is made lengthwise between the hrst and second metatarsal bones up to the part where the bone is to be saw n through • next a longitudinal cut along the inner edge of the great me atarsal bone and both connected by a transverse cut behind the head o the bone The flap thus bounded, is separated from the side cuts drawn back by an assistant, and, as in the formation of the flap on the sole’ ei ery thing covering the bone is divided by two semicirculai^cuts, at the feo°be a"a?rd^PckdTh6 ^ the «« dressing greiuoe^5011 °f metatarsal bone of ^ ^ttle toe is precisely similar to that of the just described. The Surgeon should therefr,™ »i™ letu™ed m the condition I have amputation through the great metatarsal bone ’ S ““ cel’tainly>than KTzifStts rasrr ihese °bj“,io"s-a*,eas* than on the outer side of the foot.—J. F°8 ] t C b°dy 1S thrown more 011 the inner t[lr0l^h the intermediate metatarsal bones is thus tsc'fz r E/f'F ™ "eft hree or four lines shorter than ts fob 1I,ner side» should be face of the foot is nexfout 1 " r ^ *kin uPon the dorsal sur- i° that of the other longitudinal wn^ °hjiquely, from the angle of one f sawing. The skin ?■ \ .ouri^’ al;)0ut two lines before the place iparated°by passim^* tf/e knife b°efw a"d a11 tbe soft Pparts torsal surface 0fth6 jbot inthl u ?• bon.es 0,1 the and on the Heft cloth is now appHed e™ ”) jl,q,,erd“’ecti°n of the skin cut. The > fde cut, and the bone divided ohbn ,Sphl]tJasa?d in, up to ti.e top of the i'-’^hen the bleedino- has been t to*11,6 Wlt1 a fine savv from side to side. Igether, and the ski,, brnnllT^’ t?1e nei»!lbouring bones are brought ‘^ter applied f om the too o^ th0T ^ ** °f the boae’ b7 strapsof 11 Ir°m the top of the foot downwards. The edges of the Vo 1,. ir. (a) ZANo,book iv. p. 184.930 AMPUTATION THROUGH THE FINGERS AND TOES. (a) 7.kno, above cited, p. 1ST. wound are to be kept together with several circular straps round the loot,, and a simple covering (a). , 2733. Amputation through the metacarpal hones is performed in exactly the same way as that through the metatarsal bones, already mentioned. Of the above modes of proceeding it must be decided which shall be followed, for the removal of some or all the metacarpal bones, except that of the thumb. For amputating through the metacarpal bone of the thumb, a flap must be made on the volar surface, the soft parts on the back of the hand, divided correspondently with the base of the flap ; then those in the space between the bones divided, and the meta- carpal bones sawn off. fin amputating through the metacarpal bones, and specially if only the head ol tPe bone be cut off, as commonly practised, when the whole finger is to be removed, as the other fingers fall readily together, and do not produce the deformity which am- putating at the knuckle does, it is better to cut through the bone with nippers than with a saw. b Liston observes:—'‘In using the forceps, the flat side is applied towards the trunk, so that the surface which is left may be perfectly smooth. One great advantage gained by employing the forceps is, that the palm can be left entire, the hand is much less deformed, the palmar arch is in general not interfered with, and the haemorrhage s accordingly more trifling.” (p. 365.) I do not think the palmar arch is more safe with the nippers than with the saw, as the soft parts require equal separation in both.—J • * • &.J VI.—AMPUTATION THROUGH THE FINGERS AND TOES. (Amputatio Digitorum Manus et Pedis, Lat.; Amputation der Finger und Zehen, Germ.; Amputation des Doigts et des Orteils, Fr.) 2734. Amputation through the phalanges of the fingers is only indi- cated when some particular advantage is to be gained by keeping the stump, as in amputating the fore part of the second phalanx ; in all other cases, disjointing the phalanx is to be preferred. In the toes, am-, nutation must be restricted to that of the first joint of the great toe, because, by preserving the ball of that toe, advantage is gained over dis- imputation of the phalanges, by means of sharp nippers, performed in the earliest times -P or with the chisel, recommended by Heliodorus, Padlls ^ginlta - Albucasis, and subsequently by many other writers, both within and without: t ioiut is entirely discarded; and in general, the disjointing of the phalanx is pafe Cdran Guthrie, Samuel Coop^. Langenbeck, Ave.ull, Rust, Ma^aicn*^ T \.fger agree in preserving the phalanx, and as to the advantage of ampu a Jon, they differ from each other in regard to its application to a single finger. us ^ onlv with the amputation through the second phalanx of the fore- and ring-hng forbids*it on alHhe phalanges of the two middle-fingers. Langenbeck the firstand second phalatx ot the fore- and ring finger, and on the first of Aeth^b and httle finger, a'veriee, on the other hand employs it only for the finger. Jaeger thinks it may be performed at the second phalanx; of the tour S with much advantage to the patient, especially the further forward* £oiie. ^ 1 J from experience that with the phalanges of the three outer fingers which can be a into the palm, better resistance can be produced. „h the Langenbeck, Zang, Rust, and Jaeger, are all m favour of amputatio g first phalanx of the great toe. . . , nr0. 2735. In amputation through the phalanges, the skin having bet F nerlv drawn back, a circular cut is made with a scalpel, the s 'in < -■ drawn back, the tendons and periosteum divided, sawn through, an bone to slwn through. If the skin on the back of the finger be o^ much destroyed, or the phalanx too thick and broad, as that of the g h flap may be made on the palmar surface, by thrusting the kni L 1 jt 21) dividing the soft parts on the back with a seni.c rcul r^ which Is better thin a dorsal’ flap, or than a flap before and beh.nd, on the side. (Langenbeck, Zang.) . - ■OF EXARTICULATION. 931 In cutting the finger off with a chisel, (.Dactylosmileum, Lat.,) the finger must be laid on its dorsal surface on a little wooden block, and held by an assistant, who at the same time draws the skin back: a sharp chisel, as wide again as the finger, is to be placed vertically on the palmar surface, and held with the left hand, and the finger is struck off with a smart blow from a wooden mallet. In this way, which is generally objected to as rough and barbarous, and only recommended by G-raefe and Jaeger, there is not any splintering; the operation is quick and 1 e painful, and the cure is not more tedious than in the operation with the circular cut (a). fcSlYrwa the rem0Val °£the PJlalanx b7 a peculiar instrument, the tachytome, with which, at the same time, sufficient flaps of the soft parts are formed. Fourth Section.-OF EXARTICULATION, OR AMPUTATION THROUGH _ _ THE JOINTS. (Exarhculatio Membrorum, Lat.; Ablosung der Glieder, Germ.; Disarticulation, Fr.) de^jirurgie^Tol'. ^UpI^rs4^mputations dans les Articles; in Memo™ de 1-Academie MoNZENTHiLER. Vcreucti liber die Amputetionen in den Gelenten. Leipzig ISO- 1827 v“i'’p sr””'“r *“"eles *****desArticulations; in KeyneMedicide. 04m°Val“re’ 00 “UTCU<! mdU,ode P°ur “P»*» da“ Ard- Zanders, Die Ablosung der Glieder in Gelenk. Dusseldorff, 1831. 2,36. Amputations through joints are in some cases the only means of preserving life, as in amputation at the shoulder- and hip-joints In other cases amputation in the continuity of the bone cannot be performed And fi0nUallv0t|pS Sh°rtnKSS’ ai m S°,me Phalan9es of the fingers and toes! , finally, there may be a choice between exarticulation and amputation in the continuity of the limb, in which case the exarticuTaLTmust be preferred, if the patient will be benefited by preserving a greater length .of stump, as m exarticulations of the instep, in the knee-and wrist-joint |The danger of exarticulation, formerly held so great, is contradicted bv ■the experience of modern times; and is by some, as Larrey tSht to I 97 vl Ti tHan m Tputatlons in the continuity of limbs. ’ * ° cly °" *** *4 ss |(»« ovalaire) L all S the pe“ liaX^f *, Pf iCUl“ m?*hod > asi - laps, and the wound unites by a Hnea/scar In l! c "1 ? format,on of • noval of several joints. °ug previously operated in this same way in the re- ft) fes„&Dl^&de Oactylosmiluusi. Lips., 1815.-JaeoKB, above cited, p. 250. 3 o 2932 EXARTICULATION OF THE THIGH 2738. The processes of the bones most surely point out the place of the joint, which may even be discovered through the swollen parts. . 1 lie i . knife should never be violently thrust into a joint, and in those joints,. especially where their surfaces are locked into each other, not before their r particular connexions have been cut through. In carrying the knifed through the joint, its edge should always be directed towards the bone thatt is to be removed. . 2739. It is frequently found in those cases where exarticulation is* necessary, that the soft parts surrounding the joint are converted into a white firm, lard-like substance. If this substance have not become, soft, like pap, the flaps may be formed from it. By proper dressing thw> swelling may, however, be quickly lessened ; and I have seen, in such: cases, quick union take place just as well as in a perfectly healthy state ol t the soft parts (a). I.-OF EX ARTICULATION OF THE THIGH AT THE HIP. (Exarticulatio Femoris, Lat.; Abldsungdes Schenkels aus dem Hiiftgelenke, Germ.; Desar ticulation de la Cuisse, Fr.) 1 Morand, Sur FAmputation de la Cuisse daus son Articulation avec l’Os de la. Hanche ; in his Opuscules de Chirurgie, p. 176. Pans, 1768. Vohler; in same, p. 189. Puthod ; in same, p. 199. Lalouette, An Femur in cavitate cotyloidea aliquando amputandum? Paris, 1748; and in Halleri, Disputat. Chirurg., vol. v. p. 265. Barbet; in Prix de l’Academie de Chirurgie, vol. iv. p. 1. Couronne' en 1759. Meckel und Unger, An Femur e cavitate cotyloidea amputandum ? Hal®, 1793. Moublet ; in Journal de Medecine, vol. xi. p. 240. Tallichet, De resecto Femore exarticulo. Hal®, 1806. Larrey ; in Memoires de Chirurgie Militaire, vol. ii. p. 180; vol. iii. p. 349; vol. iv. ^Thompson, John, M.D., Report of Observations made in the British MilitalT hos- pitals in Belgium after the Battle of Waterloo, with some remarks on Amputation. Edinburgh, 1816. 8vo. ... rrr Guthrie G. J., On Gunshot Wounds of the Extremities requiring the differ* Operations of Amputation, with their After-treatment. Lo"Jo;j- [81^ 8v0, e translated into German, with remarks by Spangenberg. Beilin, 18-1. Hedenus, A. G., Commentatio Chirurgica, de Femore in cavitate cotyloidea ampo-; tando. Lips., 1823. 4to.; with plates. Metz, H., Ueber die Losung des Oberschenkels aus dem Huftgelenke. Inaog. Abhandl. Wurzburg, 1841. 2740. Exarticulation of the Thigh at the Hip-Joint, is, of all ar|'Pl* tations, the most dangerous; and the danger of the operation itse S considerably increased by the disease rendering it necessary, cases hitherto published, in which this operation has been performed, u» uroportion of successful and unsuccessful results is about as 1 to 2* UO- * * . „ . » . a_a? TTaKa* Ain F-r .rHcill fttion dCS OlUCfcjj Mauoot (Lisfranc), Sur lea Amputations pratiques dans des Tissus lardacees, revenue a F'etat normal ala suite de 1’Operat.on; m Revue M (6)Ci'eka'u.t in° Sab ATiitR, Medecine Opera- tofre. — Lakkev, Memoires, vol. iv. p. 2,.— Bit cm'nk i oo and Guthrie ; in 8a««ljboom- Dictionary of Surgery, p. 84. Edition °fl828. Delpkch ; in Revue Mcdicale. 1824 , vol; ill. p. 333 1828.—Wkndei.stadt; in Hufeland s Jour- nal, vol. Vi. p. 110. 181 I.-Mott, V.; in London Medicalund Physical Journal, vol. m. p. 1827. —Waonkr, Ueber die Exarticulation des kels aus dem Huftgelenke ; in KuBfTA8m>'“,tien vol. xv. p. 261.-Orton, J., A Case of AroP"’* . of the Hip-Joint successfully performed, in » jn Chir. Trans., vol. xiii. p. 603.—Bare*. Glasgow Medical Journal. 1831 ; - fai.i.ane, J., Clinical Reports ol Oie Surgi^ Practice of the Glasgow Koval Intirmarj ,1 j ^ Glasgow, 1832. In a child of two sears M. g^ account of a compound fracture- o Hip. Memoir on Amputation of the Thigh at Joint. London, 1845 ; fol.AT THE HIP. 933 Many die so long after, and in such way, that death cannot be directly ascribed to the operation. Jaeger (a), who has performed this operation successfully, has collected all the cases known to him, of which the following, which were successful, must be mentioned to wit, those of Baudens (6), Mayo (c), Sedillot (d), and Textor (e). . K,ri’ier (/)> "'ho lost a patient from sudden spasm, ten days after operating, accord- ing to Larrey’s method, considers this operation inadmissible on account of its danger. 1 he results up to the present time do not confirm this objection. There is also little advantage in Krimer’s proposal of, instead of the exarticulation, tying the common iliac artery so as to cause death of the diseased extremity ! ? If the Surgeon hesitate to perform the operation through the joint, he could have no objection to perform it high up through the great trochanter, by which opening the joint would be avoided.— J. F. S.J t o 2/41. So great extension of mortification as effects the thigh throimh- out its whole thickness, and such crushing of the thigh-bone, and of the soft parts as render flap-amputation below the great trochanter impossible can alone be considered as indications for amputation at the hip-joint! Coney, in the hip-joint can never indicate this operation because the socket is always affected. T > rwfirSt ,amPatatl0n through the lnp-joint appears to have been performed by a Croix d Orleans in 1748, on a boy of fourteen, both of whose lower limbs had flrm diseased rye; the first operation was through the right » d f daysafter the left thigh was amputated at the hip-joint; he seemed8to b on ve7 5el,’ but died on the eleventh day after the second operation (q\ , ,RRfUI'T’ of St‘ 7a,ure’m Touraine> first operated with success in 1773 on a man having beenl16 nearly„Up to the pelvis, in consequence of his thigh S *een c usbe‘d between the pole of a carriage and the wall (h). byKERR f 0Po°frtNnrfbn “ .^.“d, 1but which was unsuccessfi.il, is that operated on jj nf at !v,Northampton, in December 1774, (as appears from a letter from Harden of ISorthampton, to the late Sir William Blizard, for which I have to „h“nk I"/ fne"d Curling.) The patient was a girl between eleven and twelve years of *l»TdvX1” ^V' 6h‘ “P^tond&otfc fever; after the „,SLf Ehh srta,u„xride^eei1ttnt’' rper341°rrTbWith aVl:0la’ and *e died 011 the eighteenth tyhLm°the PJoHN T,, L! un r*hlS °Perat'on was Performed with a single flap. 8iwas norfi~ (t } ! ateS’ he bas “been informed it (amputation at the hip-joint) lH^nU?°™ad n London hy the Iate Mr. H. Thomson, Surgeon to the London (v 264 \ Th lmaglnes ‘ it nmst bave been his operation to which Mr. Pott alludes ” p. 264.) The passage referred to in Pott (Z) is the following“ I cannot savtW lO have ever done it, but I have seen it done, and am now very fure I hal no ohl SX'thSSl” " n0tpa"y- P™b“M J “ « « « Thomson operated before Kerr I cannot ascertab.-L RK] °perated first>or whether 1™* Th® Tdes 0/Proceedin&r in exarticulations at the hip-joint have K ioX aHCd r •°L7alf?’ Wh? br°ached ‘"e «« »f *£ operation^ be dSd hSvIT V{ thes^1 however> rest on]y experiments on B d b°dy’ and dePend generally on the condition .of the soft parts, (a) Hamburger Zeitschrift, vol. iii. part i. 04 An_Account of the Operation of Amputating le Thiuh at tl» rr-™,. . » } (i) In same. | (c) I-ancet. 1836-7; vol. i. i I («) Metz, above cited. ’ (/) vonUha£fe und ■ !* Ol. xii. p. 121. >. 225 Arriioea g6n^“°de' Medicine, vol. ix. von Wai.theb'b Journal, JiARBET> above eited, p. 9. jj *•s,ABATiEB,McdecineOperatoirc,vol. iv.p,542. the rhigh at the Upper Articulation, lately per- formed ; in Medical and Philosophical Common- r by fL Society in Edinburgh, vol. vi. 1779. (“) Report of Observations made in the British 7™! Hospitals in Belgium, after the Battle ot Waterloo, with some Remarks on Amputation Edinburgh, 1816. 8vo. <0 Chlrurgical Works, vol. iii. Edition of 1783.EXARTICULATION OF THE THIGH, 934 and the nature of the injury. The several modes of operation may be disposed under the following heads—a. the circular cut; b. the flap cut, with one or two flaps; c. the oval cut. a. The Circular Cut. 2743. Here belong the modes of Abernethy, Veitch, Kerr, and Graeff, 2744. According to Abernethy («), the Surgeon standing on the outer side of the limb, the femoral artery being compressed by the fingers upon the pubic bone, makes, an inch below the joint, two successive circular cuts, by which he divides the muscles from tiie great and little trochanter, cuts into the capsule, dislocates the head and divides the round ligament. 2745. Veitch (5) proposed making the amputation of the thigh below the joint in the common way with the circular cut, and sawing through the bone two inches below the cut. After the arteries have been tied, the patient is to be placed on his side and a vertical cut made from the great trochanter to the wound, the muscles to be separated on the outside of the thigh, the joint opened and the bone disjointed. Cole’s (c) method, who amputated through the trochanter major and removed the neck and head, corresponds with this. Jaeger proceeded in the same way in his suc- cessful case, in which, whilst amputating through the upper third of the thigh with an external flap, he noticed the caries extending higher between the lamella■, again sawed off the bone two or three inches higher, and even then finding the disease extending up to the trochanter, he merely extended the upper angle of the flap on the fore and outer side two inches upwards, cut into the capsule without any great difficulty, then through the round ligament and easily removed the bone. The stump had everywhere flesh to spare which was however no evil, and after the cure it was six inches long, felt hard as if the bone were still remaining in it, and could in some degree be drawn inwards. 2746. Kerr (d) having first bent the thigh at a right angle with the trunk, made a cut through the skin, from behind the top of the trochanter obliquely backwards and downwards to the inside of the thigh, and from thence obliquely upwards to within two inches from the femoral artery; then a second beginning at the same place as the former, but carried in an opposite direction over the upper extremity of the trochanter, and from thence obliquely forwards and downwards to within the same distance ot the vessel as in the former cut. He then cut through the muscles in the direction of the skin cuts, and separated the bone from the joint; graspea firmly the flap still undivided, and containing the artery, betwixt the fingers and thumb of his left hand, his fingers on the skin side of it, ana his thumb on the muscular side, cut it through about four inches ie o the inguinal ligament, and tied the artery. I Kerr states further that the compression was so complete “ as to prevent the ° a single drop of blood, and the hsemorrhage from the other arteries was full as incon siderable as in any other amputation of the thigh. * * * TTie bgature fell off » the fourth or fifth dressing.” (p. 341.) In Harden’s letter it is further sitated, th “ two other small arteries only were taken up, and the blood lost during the ojttrafi was very trifling. The large artery was tied immediately above a branch gon g which I think is called the profunda. Perhaps the operation could not he done so much ease where the ligaments of the joint had not been previously destroyed, ss was the case here.”] . i 1 • the 2747. According to Graefe’s (<?) experiments on the dead d«Ji ^ femoral avtery should be compressed with a roller, and 1 ipelle (a) Lectures, on authority of S. Cooper. (ilEdlnburgli Medical and Surgical Journal, <§ ^„t^A&&«ro»ererGlicdm^". VOl. ill. p. lw. loVt. , (r) Samuel Cooper’s Surgical Dictionary, p $3. p. 11/.AT THE HIP, WITH SINGLE FLAP. 935 Moore’s compressor; the skin is then to be divided with a circular cut, three or four fingers’ breadth below the trochanter, and after having been moderately drawn back by an assistant, his leaf-knife (Blcittmesser) is to be placed as deeply as possible on the outer side close to the edge of the retracted skin, the leaf sunk obliquely to the trochanter, drawn over the front to the inner side, so that its edge runs along tire neck close to the thigh-bone, and the cut completed in the usual way. If large ves- sels bleed which cannot be compressed by the assistant, they must be tied if not too close to the middle of the wound. The muscles are now drawn up by an assistant, and the fleshy parts first divided on the outside to the very point of the trochanter, with the blade of the leaf-knife kept directly upwards. An assistant now turns the knee outwards, the muscles are di\ ided on the inner side with the blade of the leaf knife directed upwards till the edge of the hip-socket appears. The transverse ligament is then divided with the edge of the knife held rather obliquely, and whilst the assistant rolls the head of the bone inwards and upwards, placing one hand below the trochanter, and the other on the inside of the knee, the operator pressing the knife firmly cuts through the capsular ligament on the inside. The assistant now carries the thigh far outwards till it forms a right angle with the side of the body, and the operator with one smart stroke cuts through the outer under part of the capsular ligament and the muscles still attached in this region, by which the head of the bone is completely freed. After stanching the blood, the wound is to be brought together obliquely with two sutures and strips of sticking plaster. h. The Flap Cut. * With a single flap. 2748. The operation of exarticulation with one flup is variously per- formed, according as it is a hinder (Puthod, Bryce) ; an inner (L’Alou- ette, Delpech, Lenoir, Langenbeck) ; a front (Peantade, Manec) or an outer flap. ' 2749. According to Puthod, the femoral artery having been first tied, the patient laid on his side and properly held, and the skin drawn upwards by an assistant, a transverse semicircular cut is to be made through the skin, beginning on the inner hinder part of the thio-h and ending at the great trochanter. After drawing the skin back the tendon ot the 77i. glutceus maximus is cut through, and by carry in o- the knife lalong the trochanter all the muscles there inserted are divided. The lukuife is now to be thrust into the joint below the tendon of the m. qracilis hand the capsular ligament cut across ; after which the thigh is drawn ^upwards and inwards so that the head of the bone may project outwards hand upwards, and then the stretched round ligament is cut through and a he division of the capsular ligament completed. The muscles of the iihinder inner side of the thigh are now divided, four or five fingers’ b/ead h fe ssrruZlxS-musc,es on the i,,sWe al t,re iop i"8 of proceeding. After tying the femoral ■mo render the m m , HS . )e ,y’ aml, th? thlSh drawn somewhat inwards ‘eoreadth below the tr,rh„ / 116 8kln, ( rawn hack, and cut through three fingers' o :ut off at the trochanter • the knffe f^th^' been tU[nwl back> the m- 9luta'i are ■vhich is raised im A.. knJfV 18 tben. carried outwards to make one flap of flesh ; P> < he cut being continued quite down to the joint, and the head ()• mb, above cited. (6) Anweisung zu Chirurg. Operationen, p. 236.936 EXAUTICULATiON OF THE THIGH, twisted on itself, the other part of the capsular ligament and the round ligament ar divided, and the operation completed by cutting through the muscles on the other sid of the thigh. . 2750. Bryce (a) compresses the femoral artery, and makes a transverst cut on its inner side above the trochanter, above the highest part of tli ; hip, ties the femoral artery, cuts through the capsular ligament, separate^ the head of the bone, and at last forms the lower flap. 2751. According to L’Alouette, the patient should be placed on hi sound side, the femoral artery compressed with a tourniquet, the thiga stretched out, and an assistant draws the skin back. With a semicircula j cut extending from the upper outer part of the great trochanter to thn ischial tuberosity, all the soft parts are cut through to the joint. Th joint is now felt for with the nail of the left forefinger, and the capsula ligament opened. The assistant rolls the thigh inwards, the projectin', round ligament is divided with a button-ended bistoury, and the head of th bone dislocated by bending the thigh towards the chest, upon which thl knife being carried round the capsular ligament, completely divides it, am a flap is formed four or five fingers broad, by bringing the knife down on the inside of the bone. * 2752. According to Langenbeck. (h), a transverse cut should be mad from the front of the thigh, not too near the femoral artery, on the oute' side, down to the back part of the thigh, opposite the ischial tuberosity which should divide the soft parts to the neck of the bone ; then b; turning the knee inwards the exarticulation of the head is effected, ano the inner flap is formed by cutting round the inner surface of the tlngh. 2753. Deepech (c), who has performed this operation twice success fully, after having tied the femoral artery, thrusts a single-edged knife two inches below the superior anterior spine of the ilium, between the m sartorius and m. tensor vagina: fejnoris, to the neck of the thigh- one inclines the point inwards, and pushing it well into the cavity hetweei the little trochanter and the neck, thrusts it through at the hinder part The knife is now drawn down on the inside of the thigh-bone, ant ) » i i 1 'I hit? rl!)n 1! _L lie iVillltJ tIU W MICE t . mj • flon 1* cutting inwards a flap is formed about eight inches long, ihis flap jj EUlLliig in»»uxuu 14 ““p ■*-’ *'"* u , , X j rpi fill' held back by an assistant, and any spouting vessel in it tied, ine m is now inclined outwards, the capsular ligament divided sennciiciliar y the head of the bone dislocated, the round ligament cut through, knife carried behind the head, and the mass of muscle and skill chviaeo by a horizontal cut. After the vessels are tied, the flap is I0US , ,j the wound and united with sutures an inch apart, l oo muc i s i» " , not be preserved on the outer side, and it is better, if necessai), 0 the inner flap longer. This method is a modification of Barkis , ^ which an outer flap is also formed. wonting that In this way, Orton, Clot, Cherubini, and Well have operated, excepting Clot did not tie the femoral artery first. 2754 Lenoir (d) compresses the femoral artery, and standing o outer side of the limb, which is inclined inwards, makes a transve^ ^ on the hinder outer side, draws the soft parts back, penetrates1* ^ outer hinder part of the joint, and ends by forming an internal flap, assistant compresses the artery in the flap till it is tied. he 2755. According to Plantade (c), an upper or Jiont flap A . (a) Above cited. , v „ -’05. Uni- ’ 250. (0) OlDllOtneK Uir UIC —t r (e) Journal general de Medecine, vol. cm. p- J- 1828.937 AT THE HIP, WITH TWO FLAPS. formed by two vertical cuts on the sides, connected by a transverse cut as in La Faye’s mode of exarticulation at the shoulder. 2756. According to Manec (a), whilst the extremity is drawn outwards and a little bent, a double-edged knife is thrust between the great tro- chanter and front iliac spine from above downwards, and from without invyards, between the neck of the thigh-bone and the muscles, and as the knife is carried close down on the bone, a sufficiently long flap is cut which an assistant raises, and compresses the artery found in it. The operator now passes the knife below the joint, places it on the inner angle of the wound, and divides to the outer angle all the soft parts to - the bone. The capsule of the joint is then opened by a smart cut on its front, the head of the bone projected by abducting the thigh, the round igament divided, and the rest of the capsule completely divided. After the formation of the flap, the joint may be entered in front, and the hind I parts separated by a cut from within outwards. 2757- Ipthe condition of the soft parts only permit an outer flap, when the femoral artery has been either first tied or properly compressed, the knife must be thrust vertically, below the middle of Poupart’s ligament fan< te W1()le mass of soft parts cut through directly inwards. The thicrh is now to be carried well outwards, the capsular ligament opened the [ round ligament divided, the head of the bone pressed out of its socket’ and LLp3^11? the,kf.lfe round. and drawing it down, the flap is formed’. I . have performed the operation in this way upon a living person. * * With two flaps. • 225J' T1',is Tde °f pr0Ceedin° with two flaPs, varies according- as it is performed with an inner and outer (A. Blandin, Larrey Dufuy t/SFKANC’ I°N WaLTHER)’ or with afore and hindflap (Wohler [ ’ eclard, Begin, and Sanson), and according to the formation of tinJ prf°ther and als0 whether by thrusting in the knife, or by carry :lng it from without inwards. ’ J caiIT 2f5?; Blandin ties the femoral artery first, and whilst he tlirnu. e knife into the lower angle of the wound, made for S the arffirv Wsgthe n6 t thiGknfSS 0f the th'gh, he forms an inner flap, afteS the exartlculation"6' " Pr°Ceeds ‘° the di,ision of ll>e <*P™le and JJ6,0' According t0 Barrey, the femoral artery and vein should -fhe Weedln7vexeel7tiedar^Theatln^7*^d','''dd^V ’"creased, the head of the bonedis ocated^’ The fdllCtion is ►bug knife placed behind the head of 1 16 ed^ of the Iar^e a,RPu- ! ehind the great trochanter of ‘he b°ne> 18 n,ow carried close muscles andgskin obliquely ’ ' ThP ^ °"?r flap f<?rmed by cutting the ooiiqueJy. The spouting vessels are compressed by (a) Velpeau, Medecine Operatoire. 1839. Second Edition ; vol. ii. p. 54G. *938 EXARTICULATION OF TIIE TIIIGII, an assistant, and carefully tied, and after the surface of the wound has^ been properly cleansed, the flaps are brought into apposition, some sutures applied, the union supported by strips of sticking plaster, covered with lint, and a compress, and fixed with a proper bandage. Larrey (a) has subsequently recommended another method, in which after tying the. crural artery, he makes a circular cut immediately below the great trochanter, through, the skin, to determine the length of the flap. The inner flap must then be made either . from without inwards, or from within outwards, according to the condition of the parts.-, i The capsular ligament is divided with the same knife, the head of the bone dislocatedd I inwards, the round ligament divided, and the knife being carried over it into the skin-cut,' i the outer flap is thus formed. After tying the bleeding vessels, the ligatures are placed! in the bottom of the wound, and a piece of oiled linen put into that angle of the wounddl nearest to the hip-socket, and then the flaps closed. Mott (b) forms the inner flap according to Larrey’s method, by thrusting m the knife, and the outer flap by cutting from without inwards. 2761. According to Dupuytren (c), the operator, placed on the inner side of the thigh, and the artery being properly compressed, makes a semi- circular cut from the region of tire upper front spine of the ilium, over the inner side to the ischial tuberosity, through the skin, draws it back- wards, cuts through the muscles in the same direction, thus forming an inner flap four or five inches long, turns this back, divides the capsule, and finishes the operation by the formation of the outei flap. According to Dupuytren’s (d) earlier experience, the operator should stand on the outer side of the limb, with his hands on the upper part of the thigh, so that by gently moving he can discover the situation of the joint. From this place he makes a semi-, circular cut passing three inches down, over the outer hinder part, and ending bal an inch below the ischial tuberosity; the skin is then drawn back and the muscles divided at its edge down to the bone. To this outer cut, the operator makes a second and corresponding one over the inner side of the thigh, which joins the first at tie points where it begins and ends. The outer and inner flaps are separated up to the joint, and held back by an assistant. The capsule is divided by a circular cut, aft®-, wards the round ligament, and then the head of the bone is removed. 2762. According to Lisfranc (e) the thigh is to be held extended by an assistant, and the operator, standing on the outside of the limb, draws a line from the front upper spine of the ilium, parallel with the axis oi the thigh, and an incli in length, from the lower inner end of which, at a rig ano-le to it or transversely a second line half an inch long. At le en this latter line he thrusts the point of a long straight knife, with its edge following a line from its entrance to the upper outer part of the grW trochanter. The blade of the knife now upon the outer side of the head of the thigh-bone, passes round it and projects at the middle hinder p of the buttock. By some strokes upwards and outwards, avoiding great trochanter, the knife is carried along the thigh two niches, am the flap is completed. After the bleeding arteries have been tied, » assistant holds the flap back. The knife is now carried round the neck the bone, and again passed to the hind upper angle of the wound, parts, if necessary, being pressed inwards, to avoid the lesser trocha ' j and a flap formed on the inner side of the bone, of the same len ■ form as the outer. The operator tl.en grasps the tlngli with* hand, brings the edge of the knife perpendicularly upon thei inner sj ^ the head of the bone, which he runs round as much as possible, di (a) Clinique Chirurgicale, vol. iii. p. fill. ..wecited.P- V ’ 1 vol. i. p. 177.—MoKiwtTii»tK«, above earn, £ (b) Above cited. M _Avf.ru. t., above cited, p. InS.-h'** ' . (c) Legons Orates, vol.»'• P- ■ ; 1823 . Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal, vo • (rf) Archives gem-rales dc Blcneci p. 657. 1823 M mkoaUlt, above cited, pi- (ej Archives general** de Mddecine. 1823 ; ng. 2D.AT THE HIP, WITH TWO FLAPS. 939 capsular and round ligaments, and then cuts from within outwards the rest of the capsule and whatever muscular fibres still remain attached. 2763. vonWalther (a) compresses the femoral artery with a compressor against the pubic bone ; thrusts a double-edged amputation knife, three inches below the upper front spine of the ilium, at the outer edge of the m. sartorius, vertically down upon the neck of the thigh-bone, carries it outwards and backwards around it, and pushes it out two inches and a half behind the great trochanter, at a corresponding height to its point of en- trance ; the knife now kept close to the bone, cuts two inches below the base of the trochanter obliquely outwards, and forms an oblong outer flap which being drawn back, the exposed capsular ligament is cut into, the head of the bone dislocated outwards and downwards, and the round liga- ment divided. With a single-edged amputating knife he now passes through the cavity of the joint, behind the head of the thigh-bone and round the little trochanter, and continues two inches down along the inside of the thigh close to the bone. The femoral artery and neighbouring vessels are now to be compressed, as high up as possible, by both the thumbs of an assistant placed upon the surface of the wound, and then the edge of the knife being inclined obliquely inwards, the operation is com- pleted by forming the inner flap. 2764. According to Vohler, the femoral vessels should be laid bare by a cut on Poupart’s ligament and tied, and then the patient havino- been placed on his belly, the skin and m. glutaus maximus are to be cu° i through two fingers breadth below the ischial tuberosity, and the flan so formed drawn up ; the muscles attached to the trochanter are then cut i through to the capsular ligament, which is opened whilst the thigh is i lghtly moved and cut through forwards together with the musclls on the ou er and fore part of the thigh. The vessels must be in part com" ipressed, and in part tied. The hinder flap covers the wound. 2/6.j. According to Bell (b), the femoral artery should be compressed by a tourniquet against the pubic bone, and the thigh being bent on the groin, the skin and flesh of the thigh are to be divided with two circular fSlx inc ies.below the joint, and every important vessel on the surface he wound tied. Two longitudinal cuts are now made upwards froni^ the so thltrtv°nflbehlnd f/om tl,,e head of the thigh-bone, and another before ^ of the thhTh aT. ed’ °ne °n ?e °Uter and the °ther on the innei- ae ol the thigh, ihese are separated to expose the joint the head of the Tmr" if ‘Tf6"’ U mmt be witl. ,l!e foreeps* 2166. According to Beclard (c), the thigh should be slio-htll he f ”° 88 to relax the parts on its fore part then in the Virile c li be 4 I— t sS S'lnorers’ hrenrHb r * i. » e Knite clown a flap is made, six p£ SoKf '%£%£££ &« com- lapsular ligament 1 ie t'ont °f the joint is now laid bare, the ffif tj,e b ° i. i . , , ’ am afterwards the round ligament, the head » mifeljeinn,ecarried^^iind Zt8^ -id the whole flap^fequaMength ^ “*940 EXARTICULATION OF THE THIGH, [Liston’s (a) operation is the same as Beclard’s, and he observes:—“ This mode I < getting at the head and neck of the bone is much preferable to that usually followed, an |' is in every respect safer, as he has more than once ascertained from actual practice • the living body. The fore part of the articulation is fully exposed immediately on 11 anterior dap being formed. The capsular ligament is cut by drawing the knife acre >r. determinedly, as if it were the intention of the operator to cut off the head of the bora The round ligament and the posterior portion of the capsule are cut, and the blade the instrument having been passed behind the neck and trochanters, the posterior fl: is quickly formed so as to allow the limb to drop. The vessels on the posterior aspe^ are tied fast; then the femoral and those in the anterior flap, which had been cor manded by the assistant, are uncovered one by one, and secured.” (p. 387.)] 2767. Begin and Sanson (b) first make a semicircular cut, with i concavity upwards, through the skin and cellular tissue, beginning fro> the point of the great trochanter, carried over the front of the thigh att| ending at the tuberosity. The skin is drawn back and the femoral artei tied. The front flap is then made, either from without inwards, or froi within outwards, by a thrust, and afterwards the hind flap, the one ang: of which must correspond with the great trochanter and the other wit the tuberosity. The operation is finished by the exarticulation of th head. * * * The Oval Cut. 2768. According to Sanson, the operator, standing on the outside ( the limb, makes a cut obliquely from below upwards and from within oui wards, beginning it four fingers’ breadth below the perinceum, carrying : over the front of the joint, and ending it at the point of the great tre chanter. This cut divides the skin and superficial muscles, and the femora artery is now tied. A second cut beginning from the inner angle of th first, is carried over the hind part of the limb and united with the forme at the point of the trochanter; it divides the skin and the mass of mus cles as deep as possible. The knife is now passed into the first cut, it edge directed towards the hip-socket, the thigh dropped, by which the heat is protruded, and then the capsular and round ligaments are divided. Tin knife is now carried round the head from within outwards, then back wards and afterwards inwards, care being taken that it do not for at instant leave the socket. This operation is very quick. 2769. Guthrie (e) gives the following mode of performing tin operation. An assistant standing on the opposite side, and leaning over should compress the artery against the brim of the pelvis, with a nm hard compress of linen, such as is generally used before the tourniquet he should also be able to do it with his thumb, behind the compress, if »' be found insufficient. The Surgeon standing on the inside, with a strong pointed amputating knife of a middle size, makes his first incision tliroug the skin membrane, and fascia, so as to mark out the flaps on cellu ar each side, commencing about four fingers’ breadth, and in a direct below the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium in a well-si®* man • and continuing it round in a slanting direction at an almost equa distance from the tuberosity of the ischium, nearly opposite to the piac where the incision commenced. Bringing the knife to the outside ot thmli, he connects the point of the incision where he left off «>'» place of commencement, by a gently-curved line, by which means outer incision is not in extent more than one-tlurd of the size of tn (o) Practical Surgery. 68—• (1/) Sabatif.r, Medecine Oporatoire, par Sanson ct Beoin, vol. it. P- (c) Above cited, pp. 363. 364.AT THE IIIP, WITH OVAL CUT. 941 ternal one. The integuments having- retracted, the m. glutams maximus is to be cut from its insertion in the linea aspera and the tendons of the m. glutams medius and minimus from the top of the trochanter major The Surgeon now placing the edge of the knife on the line of the retracted muscles of the first incision, cuts steadily through the whole of the others blood vessels, &c., on the inside of the thigh. The artery and vein or two arteries and a vein of the profunda is given off high up, are to be taken between the fingers and thumb of the left hand, until the Surgeon can draw each vessel out with the tenaculum, and place a ligature upon it Whilst this is doing the assistants should press with their finders on any small vessels that bleed. The Surgeon then cuts through the small muscles running to be inserted between the trochanters and those on the upper part of the thigh, not yet divided ; and with a large scalpel opens into the capsular ligament, the bone being strongly moved outwards* bv which its round head puts the ligament o'n the stretch. Havlg exten- sively divided it on the fore part and inside, the ligamenturn feres may now be readily cut through. The head of the bone is then easily dS cated, and two or three strokes of the knife separate any attachment the Sed^T e l aV6I t0r ^ ^• ,The V6SSeh are "°£ carefully to be secured. The capsular ligament, and as much of the ligamentous edee of ntrvTs T f °Ught f be removed as can be readily taken away °The erves, W long, are to be cut short, the wound well sponged with cold moIp’ a'f i 6 .;ntegUm?tS brouS'ht together in a line from the spinous process of the ilium to the tuberosity of the ischium. Three sutures will the^parts^ together!reC^ “ aClditi°n t0 the Stl'apS °f adhesive PIaster to keep unol'ib Accordin^. Scodtetten the patient is laid across the bed and upon the opposite side to that on which the operation is to be performed oafntdhedi^^ tfcxS o«f;ridlo? *lie *“*£ h8 “Widely back. :n these cuts all the parts8are a? nnn» • f ^ very rare tliat commonly it is necessary that I T ,down to tlie bone ; most I'oanJ lo compirthTdivWo? To ifT.k ^ en*ered the |<lges of the wound ,„Zt Z fZ'hJ “if . he joint, the > at through; and when the canmd ? 1 arated and the undivided muscles placing the kn& 18 must be cut «to by nd the point of th/7r t * I Up°n d ’ the llmlj being then dropped |totrnde,Pdth;& "a^wh^tid t ^ fv ^ divides the hind third of the capsule and tT"1 Tuumfs J.!ie kmfe round it or me capsule and the muscular fibres still remain-EXARTICULATION OF THE LEG 942 ing attached, and separates the limb. In operating on the right thigh jj, the Surgeon places himself on the fore part of the limb, but the otherjl proceedings are the same. 2771. Cornuau lays down the following mode of practice. The pa-.j ■ tient being laid on his sound side, the operator with the fingers of his lef:| 1 hand ascertains the situation of the great trochanter, from the top o:j L which he makes his first cut obliquely downwards and forwards to a righ’ j A angle, formed by the union of a horizontal line from the ischial tuber osity with another descending vertically from the upper front spine of the ilium. A second cut of equal length, and forming with the first an acute angle upon the great trochanter, passes obliquely backwards and down- wards to the middle of the thickness of the limb. The outer, hinder ant q fore part of the joint is now laid bare; the capsular ligament must b< ; opened as near as possible to the edge of the socket; after the division oj the rest of the muscles which remain undivided by the first cut, the heat is dislocated outwards, the round ligament easily separated, and the knife carried round the head towards the inner side of the limb. One assistant on the outside grasps the front flap of the wound, and in its thick nest- compresses the femoral artery; another draws the skin of the inside o the thigh upwards, whilst the operator with his left hand supporting tin thigh, uses the knife till it come to the lower angle of the first cut, whicl finishes the division of the soft parts, rounds the inside of the wound, anc completes the removal of the limb. 2772. Of these several modes of proceeding which have been pi;oposeo for the exarticulation of the thigh-bone, I hold Larrey’s with the thrusj of the knife, and the formation of an inner and an outer flap, {par. 2760.] or if the condition of the parts permit, the formation of a single innei flap, {par. 2753,) or of a single outer flap, {par. 2757,) the most prefer- able in regard to safety and ease of performance. It has also been, n most of the published cases, in which the operation has had a successnfl result, the way in which, with slight deviations, it has been performed' As to the objection in reference to the bleeding, the artery may be pre- viously tied, if there be no competent assistant to be intrusted with its compression. , . The wound should be brought together with sutures and strips oi plaster, a piece of oiled linen put in the lower corner of the wound, and the whole covered with lint and compress fastened with tne mguina bandage. Jaeger holds this dressing not always of use, recommends cold fomentations and applies the dressing just after suppuration come on. II- iA.-OF EXARTICULATION OF THE LEG AT THE KNEE. (Exarticulatio Cruris, Lat.; AblBsung des Unterschenhels im Knicgelenke, Germ.; v ’ JJtfsurticulatiou de la Jambc, Fr.) Biiasdor, above cited, Textor, Ueber die Amputation im Kniegelenke; in neue Chiron, vol. i. p- L . .. i. a io /Unc r Arfipulntion duGene Textoh, Ueber uie /vinpuuuiuu im Avm^ituivv, ~ . Velpeau, Me'moire sur 1’Amputation de la Jambe dans 1’Articulation du Genoa, Archives Ge'nerales de Medecine, vol. xxiv. p. 44. 1830. it v it I J.. :s Generates de ivieuecine, vui. aaiv. y- j Discussion Nouvelle ii l’oecasiou du Rapport de M. Lajuusy, sur Univ. et \ les avantages de 1’Amputation de la Jambe dans 1 article; in Jonrn. , u -.i m,;.. Pr,hn,i« Novembre, 1830. nnce et ico avumwgvu «« x Ilebdom. de Med. et Chir. Pratiques943 AT THE KNEE. 2i 13. Amputation of the ley at the knee-joint, heretofore recommended by GuiXjLemeau in 1612, and by Fabricius Hildanus, has been consi- dered by most writers as improper, or inferior to amputation through the continuity of the thigh. Brasdor, J. L. Petit, and Hoin have recom- mended it; and Volpi, Kern, Textor, Langenbeck, Velpeau, and others have shown the applicability of this mode to those cases, where in consequence of the extensive destruction of the front of the lea-, amputa- tion through it is not possible, though there may still remain soft parts for covering the condyles, if exarticulation be performed. Many Surgeons object to it unconditionally, as Zang, Larrey, Dupuytren, and others. From Jaeger’s (a) collection of the published cases of amputation at the knee-ioint a^unfav^ ab°Ut twentytwo have had a favourable, and fourteen’ 2774. Exarticulation at the knee-joint may be formed either with the ap or the circular cut. The patient is placed as in amputation through the thigh; and the femoral artery compressed by an assistant, or with°a tourniquet. }n t,he a™Putation with the flap cut, it is best to make the flap rom the back of the leg in the following mannerAfter the femoral artery has been properly compressed, and the leg being held straight out the ass,slant who holds the thigh, draws the ski,? back? With a Ita.ghl small amputating knife, a transverse, or a semilunar (Sabatier, Tea Tor,) U is made through the skin, from one condyle to the other. The eg is now bent to tighten the ligament of the knee-cap, and the Surgeon • grasping it with the left hand, cuts through with the same knife °first his ligament, then the lateral ligaments, and, lastly, the crucial ligaments He then takes a larger amputating knife, carries it close to the hind sur’ ; face of the shin-and splint-bones, some little distance down, and forms m cutting obliquely downwards, a flap sufficient to cover the exposed joint- s rolfl, , er •l,e Tessels 1,ave bee" the flap C! bSd , fJ1 oug-ht close into contact with the front edge of the skin nnd th0 I dressing applied, as after amputating the leg with a single flap. ’ MvtiwSS modes of proceeding are less convenientFirst, According to Blan nrLia Whe“.thc.Patlent has been placed on bis belly, and the femoral artervif™*' through H|Cat 'r >S paSScd, at the j°int’ above the hones from one side to the other are connected with each other by an arch and the two fin, l°th Hle knee’ whlch ssected back and turned over • the litrament of i ‘ P‘ thereby described, are dis- ^arried into the joint and eveJyth n|Tut thrL 'h tben d^ided, the knife I narrow straight knife is to be thrus“Sth^ffih{ft5„f^IS!ng. t0- ,MaIngaui-t 00, a 1 llnd the knee-cap, but before and below * i nt,?“ the lnside of the thigh, be- aent of the knee-can thTLZtl I™ C0,1<1>k'’ and by carrying it down the liga- hin-bone. This flap is then raised STKl^dT t0 thu tubercle of tbe r7drawing the knife down, the hinder fl-m L • ciucial ligaments cut through and | ts “ s to to to t 5 ' ,f"r di,idl”e “>• Utoto " hind 'flap ofVS’ohe” istjd.®” ‘”e' *"d jn) Ilandworterbuch <lcr Chirurgie, vol ( r)ijti?.nn'lire de Medicine. ■ niun, vol. n. p. 282. i. p. Article slmpu- Turin/lHOS. d# MM* °Ptat- vol‘ «• P- 227. T^pt.'cvm 4‘ef;TF,ton,K1,’s Chirurg. Kupf.944 EXARTICULATION OP THE FOOT 2776. In the circular cut., according to Velpeau, the leg being stretched out, a circular cut, three or four fingers’ breadth below the knee<j cap, divides the skin, which is then dissected up and turned back, and whils • the thigh is grasped with the left hand, and a little bent, the ligaments arc divided from before backwards, and the muscles and vessels lying behindi are cut through at a stroke. After the vessels are tied, the wound ii. brought together vertically, or horizontally. Velpeau has twice operated in this way successfully, and has given up the methoo which he formerly recommended. According to Cornuau, it is less advantageous te. divide the soft parts by a circular cut at the edge of the skin, after it has been turnee hack, and then by dividing the lateral ligaments, to penetrate into the joint. Equally! so is the oval cut after Baudens’ method ; he makes a mark with a pen from the spine of the shin-bone three fingers’ breadth below the ligament of the knee-cap, which h< carries obliquely backwards, and from below upwards, towards the knee-cap, and ends: only two fingers’ breadth below a line corresponding to the ligament of the knee-cap; An assistant draws the skin of the knee upwards, the operator makes a cut along the marked line of the oval, the skin is then drawn back on the joint, and this, together with the aponeurosis and tendons, cut through, and the lips of the wound united length-: wise. If the knee-cap be diseased, the skin is to be separated from it, and itself from the j tendon of the m. rectus and the capsular ligament, which is better than making a /\ shaped cut through the skin, as recommended by Brasdor. I Exarticulation of the Ankle-Joint, proposed by Brasdor and others, and entirely rejected by most Surgeons, but in modern times recommended by Lisfranc, Max-:! gaigne, Baudens, and Jaeger, is in every respect inferior to amputation through the i leg, as it is always more difficult and dangerous, and always forms a bad stump, and unfitting for the application of an artificial foot. [H.*—OF EXARTICULATION OF THE FOOT AT THE ANKLE. (Exarticulatio Pedis, Lat.; Ahldsung des Fusses im Fussgelenke, Germ.; Desarticula- K tion du Pied, Fr.) This operation was long since performed successfully in France, once by' Sedillier, de Lavall, and Brasdor ; but seems to have been given up from a notion that the projections of the ankles below the base of the shin- bone would prevent the scar bearing the weight of the foot, notwithstand- ing Brasdor had distinctly stated that these processes soon became blunted, that the ends of the bones rounded, and that there was plenty ot« skin to cover a great part of the wound. J Velpeau (a) performs this operation by making two semilunar aps skin, one upon the instep, and the other above the heel, twelve or fifteen lines before and behind the joint, and meeting to form another semilunar cut on each side about an inch below the ankles. The tendons and ftga ■ ments are then to be divided as close as possible to the joint; after " 11. . the astragalus is easily removed from its mortise, and with it the w 1 foot. The flaps are brought together transversely, so that the angi enclose the points of the ankles. . . Baudens’ operation differs from Velpeau’s in a single flap being nia bv carrying a knife down to the bone, from the insertion of the Achilles tendon behind the heel, on each margin of tl.e sole of the foot, nearly as forwards as the crease of the toes, and these are connected by a trans ^ cut of a semicircular form like a gaiter across the whole dorsal suria the foot which must descend a little lower on the inner than on the edge, to’avoid including a small bundle of muscular fibres belonging (a) Nouveaux Elemons de Medecine Operatoire, vol. ii. p. 497. 1S32.AT THE ANKLE. 945 plantar surface. The flap thus marked is now taken hold of with the left hand and firmly drawn, so that with some smart strokes of the knife the whole of the soft parts, including the plantar arteries, should be shaved off close to the bones, as far back as the points of the ankles. The anterior ligament is then cut through, and the line of the joint laid bare, but with- out opening it further, the saw is placed upon it, and worked from before backwards, so as not merely to remove the malleolar processes, but also the hind edge of the tibial mortise, in order to make the surface level, and eaving the joint-cartilage only in front and in the middle, so thatithardlv forms a third of the whole bony surface. The ligaments and soft parts untouched are now to be separated with the knife and the Achilles’ ten- don scraped off as closely as possible to the heel-bone. The posterior and ! anterior tibial arteries require tying, and the flap dropping by its own weight upon the wound is fixed with sutures. Syme (a) introduced the operation of amputation through the ankle- mal eola0 C°Untry’ maiing his flapS like Veeeeau> and sawing off the malleolar processes, as in Bauden’s amputation just above the joint but 't'1 the base °f ‘hc bone, « be dis3 ’The remoral of the bony projections of the ankles was a very happy thought It hough Brasdor s observation proves that they will becomeblunted and Sa‘SL“«rflye".-tIed,t0 the meri‘ °f bavi^perfected » n his first operation, he cut across the integuments of the instep in a soWtlSr^thalH6 “nvexit>' towards th® t»«. and then across the Ann- +1 thV t’ ? that tlle incisions were nearly opposite each other The ■ flaps thus formed were separated from their subjacent connexions which <sioned 'ayiittleediffiCT ^ uu H?r ’ where the firmness of texture occa- Dleted tl li dlfficulty- The disarticulation being then readily com- Snl p’ f Pr°Jectl°ns were removed by means of cuttin/pliers. Idrawn^uncUhp6/ T'*-'! the|f flaps to° (*)» and states that* a line and tti // / f°° midway between the head of the fifth metatarsal bone Ishnnld alleol™s externus, will show their extent anteriorly, and that they the /;/ • etiai;tt/e Way farther back, opposite the malleoli projections of ihll arandL/?Wa: Care is. t0 be taken to avoid cutting tS 3Sor dal el U beP°reit divides into the two plantar arteries for fear^of par oa sloughing of the flap. If the articulating surfaces of the lib a and ^“be diseased a thin slice of these bones should be sawn off ^ UKl reLlilvIDEr(c) ’"IT1"? that the °Peration can be much more easily EZ SlSr by fhe m,eth0d of antero-lateral flaps, as thed£ec i .ion ot the os calcis from the soft part of fhp heel ^ i uissec- D' lffected, the great bruising and tZlg of thHoft parts ShT * - he other mode of disarticulation ;« Parts> which occurs in omion is thus more likely to take’place V??1” 7 a!.°lded’ and primary I ary, be still further facilitated air i •’ — *C °Peration could, if neces- yards from the point where the two Incismg the pad of the heel back- lit may be fairly repHed S * aatero-lateral incisions meet. To this I he soft parts, and that the side Snn f°r twistinS and bruising > 'rincipal advantage of SnnA 1 ap P10POsal directly does away with one 'rovided by nature for ,. Peratl0n, to wit, that “ the dense textures Employed for the same puSSe •"VnJTor^r i°f th® b°d^’ !"igbt be sti11 e PurPose, and on which account it should be pre- J11,1 ^In^urgh Monthly^^ma/'of Medlcain9°r Same ’ in samc> vo1, iv- P- C47. ls-14 I ,ce> ™1- Hi. p. 93. iJrs. 0f Med,cal &ci- , ('o Cases in Surgely, in .aW, vil. v n VOL. II. P< 189,EXARTICULATION OF TARSAL BONES. 946 ferred to the side-flap scheme. Syme considers this operation applicabl to many diseases and injuries of the foot, in which, excision of the affected ■ bones or amputation of part of the foot being inefficient, the practice pre viously followed had been that of amputating below the knee. Th advantages promised by amputation at the ankle-joint instead of the ope' ration near the knee are, first, that the risk of life will be smaller ; secona that a more comfortable stump will be afforded ; thirds that the limb wil be more seemly and useful for support and progressive motion. The risk of life must be less, because the parts divided and removed are not near! so extensive as when the leg is amputated, hardly indeed exceeding thoss concerned in Chofart’s operation ; because there is less room fo hemorrhage either immediate or secondary, owing to the smaller size o the vessels cut, which are merely the branches of the posterior tibial, ant - the anterior tibial artery very near its termination; and because the eavi i ties of cylindrical bones not being opened, the danger of exfoliation fron the dense osseous texture and of inflammation in the medullary veins i avoided. The stump will be more comfortable, because it is formed o. parts peculiarly well calculated to protect the bone from injury, and no disposed to contract like the muscular tissue ; because the cut ends of tin nerves being smaller, will be less apt to enlarge and become the seat o uneasy sensations ; and because the absence of exfoliation ensures com plete union of the integuments over the bone, and the limb will be more useful, as well as seemly, from full play being afforded to the knee-joint without the embarrassment of an imperfect stump. This operation has beer successfully performed eight times by Syme himself, and also by severa others. n.**_OF EXARTICULATION OF THE TARSAL BONES. I am rather doubtful whether this subject should be here noticed, oi whether it should be referred to excisions; but upon the whole it may perhaps be considered as belonging rather to exarticulations. The needfulness of removing or exarticulating either of the tarsal bones seems to be restricted to the astragalus and navicular bone in cases of compound dislocation ; but I have not known any instance in which the latter has been removed. In very rare instances the astragalus may be thrown out from all its connexions through the skin by violence ; a cat*- of this kind occurred some years since to my late friend Hammond oi Southgate, in which his patient having jumped out of a gig, with his horse had run away, the astragalus was jerked completely' throu., the skin on the front of the instep, and hung only by a few shreds of cel- lular tissue, which having been divided, the bone was removed anc patient recovered. . More commonly the astragalus is merely detached and throwni ou from the cup of the navicular bone, which happened in a case of n y colleague Green’s, several years since (a), the so-called head of the^L bursting through the skin below the inner ankle. If the bone cannot oursuug b ,. , . . ohnvfl and from replaced, itmust be exarticulated from the ankle-joint above andfrom its connexion with the heel-bone below. The operation is tedious its connexion with the heel-bone below, the operation »- —^ j tiresome, and it is requisite to cut through lie remains of the 9 plantar ligament and the other ligaments which connect the bone (a) A. Cooper, On Dislocations, p. 330. New Edition, 1842.PARTIAL EXARTICULATION OF TARSAL BONES. 947 shin- and splint-bones, in doing which the point of the knife must be kept close to the astragalus and, if possible, to avoid division of the plantar arteries if they be not already torn through — J F S ] 1 2777. Amputation of the foot through the nearly right lined joints be tween the astragalus and navicular, and the heel- and cuboid bones indi ,TGEOT ^Heister, was first performed by DuVi-' deS r anr« Chofa?t (b)’ but first described by the latter, whence its designation, Chopart’s excision of the foot: and in Germing =,^ii particular rules were laid down for it by Walther (c) and "ms1 The6 dPreVi°dSly g"evous amPutation of the kg pointed^ut(d™' LJZf -The diseased conditions suitable for this operation are rare and y urushmgs and carious destruction not extending beyond the first ivith a tourniquet: an assistant grasps the foot above the ankle and d™^ he shin as much as possible upwards. The operator h„Hs ,^ 7 , l5stir0re1flninr- P°"L?5 ™t e„d of the meta ji, ^e „ 7he htSe ' and a ll “d ““ ^ «9hl foot of the patient with id's own left"Znd to palm gT the R £■ fan the direction to find it, a finger’s breadth beneath thl 7°™ Cer\aiIi b,.;,„.bo„, or half an inch be.ow the I r ,fingers <if«-» n 'mediately behind them from the one edee ofVe'foot ,'b 7 carrie<l hes above the sole of the foot over H,rb- ! * * ?t’about four or five -r e skin and tendons cut through. ’ The first cut iene H °PP°Site ^ and mt. The front of the foot then JlL Jli *, gefera]ly opens part of the ■on the back and the other fingefs upon the sol• \h(i thumb od outwards, so as to stretch ’the P? ‘ ? ? ’ 1S borne downwards !d, na™"lar b™e’ *• kniteedbtt7L^i„nXt I La M';dccine eclairee es fences physiques, vol. iv Paris 1700 ZEKS CM™*. Biblio’thek vol. xfv p47lZ - 'onnaire ties Sciences Medic,ales, vol. Ip.407. Me(dL^nans<UrfepniqT l’em Gcbiet° dcr P»>“- Uifdp. 746?prrS«Blb 30th?{^',r (;hrr«ie- "»• rv o? rt* * ' ** T^" IvLElN, above nikfpr20.,,EUU8’ IiCriCllt iiber die Chirur^Klt’ 3 p 2948 PARTIAL EXARTICULATION OF TARSAL BONES. them. As this is done the whole foot is drawn more downwards, and th< 11 lio-aments between the heel- and cuboid-bones divided. rl he front of tlh ■' foot is now much pressed down, a large amputating knife entered into tbefl joint and the inner being held a little higher than the outer edge of the foot ■ carried down with the edge close to the plantar surface of the metatarsa.jj bones cutting the flap obliquely downwards at their junction with the | phalanges of the toes. In this way a flap is formed of proper length with || out any measuring being required. . 1 ; 2782 After tying the vessels and cleansing the wound, the nap i brought over the joint surfaces of the astragalus and heel-bone, so that it. edee°may be properly applied to that of the upper cut, and in this positioi it is to be fixed with sticking plaster passing from the sole over th instep and from the one side of the flap to the other. Four compressor are then to be fastened with a circular bandage on the four sides of th stump, of which two are cleft, so that one cleft and one not cleft ar opposite each other. The wound is now to be covered with a pledge and lint the uncleft compress passed through the cleft one, drawn togetha diagonally and its ends fastened by some turns of the circular bandage. 9783 If an upper and under flap be formed, the joint having beex ,. — cut is made on the of,oro ' determined as above mentioned, one inner edge oetermmeu as urcu“u“,'“, — —. , , , w ,, the foot from the projection on the navicular bone, and a second on th outer side, beginning from the junction of the heel and cuboid bone; an the length of these cuts is to be from two to three fingers breadtl according as the lower flap is formed larger or smaller. The lower enc of the side cuts are to be connected by a transverse one across the mstej and thus the flaps are to be separated together with all the tendons an muscles from the bones up to the beginning of the side cuts, and turnc back The prominence of the navicular bone is now again felt for, th foot grasped, as in the former case, with the left hand, and at the edge ( the turned-back skin, close behind the projection of the navicular bon, the connexion between it and the astragalus is cut through, and the whilst the front of the foot is much pressed down, the connexion bet wee the cuboid and the heel-bone is also cut through, I he under flap is >e formed with the large amputating knife in the way directed m t le above-mentioned indication of the joint be properly followed, it. cannot be we- nexions betw^.mhrLvR^bont knife frequently enterss b«Mr |L^e°sf 3 mistake is soon discovered by the joint-surfaces of the cuneiform bones, an f obstacle which the cuboid offers to its complete separation. ,] M»tncault (a) beams the operation by forming the under tlap. cutting ,.jj | tough ligaments on the plantar surface, and completing the operation by dividing parts on the instep. . 9^84 Langenbeck, Klein, and Richerand consider the wnnan nf an upper flap useless, because the higher the scar is with a single i J1 flip less injury is it exposed to, and because this flap on account o n, 3f„Z2 more fit for coving the wound. Some confer th. f. ?aap should merely be formed by dissecting back the skm, SESto v££=£ or however, pro/ed to me that by the formation (n) Bulletin ties Sciences Medicales. Nov., 1829; p. 60.EXARTICULATION OF METATARSAL BONES. 949 upper flap according to Waltheb’s method, that is, when everything is separated from the bones, such adhesion of the tendons, especially of the m. tibialis anticus, will follow ; that the heel cannot be so far drawn up by the operation of the gastrocnemial muscles as in the formation of a simple plantar flap or of an upper flap merely of skin. If after this operation the heel be considerably drawn up, the foot will be little useful for walk- ing ; and under such circumstances the subcutaneous division of the tendo Achillis has been recommended. Scoutetten*s. oval cut only remains to be mentioned, in which from the middle of the Jine of the joint upon the instep, a cut is made passing forwards and downwards towards the roots of the metatarsal bones, and connected by a transverse cut upon the sole of the foot in the region of the bases of those bones. The skin is then drawn back, and the exposed joint divided. Blasius recommends his oblique cut. IV.—OF EXARTICULATION OF THE METATARSAL BONES. [ (tearticulatio inter Tarsum et Metatarsum, Lat.; Ablostmg der Mittelfussknochen aus ihrer Verbmdung mit den Fusswiirzelknochen, Germ.; Desarliculation des Metatar- siens, Fr.) Hev, William, Practical Observations in Surgery, p. 547. Second Edition. Vilerme, Sur les Amputations partielles du Pied; in Journal de Me'decine, par Le Roux, etc., vol. xxxii. p. 156, 1815. Lisfranc de St. Martin, Sur l'Amputation partielle du Pied. Paris, 1815, Ficker, Ueber die Amputation des Fusses zwischen der Fusswurzel und Mittelfuss- knochen; in von Graefe und von W aether’s Journal fiir Chirureie und Auo'enheil- jKunde, vol. iv. p. 90. D ! Scoutetten, Memoire et Observations sur l’Amputation partielle du Pied dans 1 articulation tarso-metatarsienne ; sur l’Amputation metacarpo-phalangienne en totalite et Reflexions sur l’Amputation phalango-phalanginienne; in Archives generates de Medecme, vol. xiii. p. 54. 1827. 2785. The metatarsal bones may be removed from their connexion with the tarsal bones either all together or singly. The first operation should always be performed if the destruction do not extend over the tarsal bones md the advantage of this operation is greater than Chopart’s excision’ is thereby a larger portion of the foot and the insertion of the m. tibialis tnticus is preserved, and the drawing back of the heel prevented. But f the greater difficulty of this operation be considered on account of the regularity of the joints, and the impossibility of closely applying the lap, and that by the peformance of Chopart’s excision, according to the node recommended by Waltheb, the drawing back of the heel can be n-evented, this preference may seein less considerable. 2786. Hey first makes a mark upon the back of the foot, at the con- ■exion of the metatarsal with the tarsal bones, and an inch beyond this a ransverse cut through the skin and muscles of the bones of the metatarsus. ■ om each end of this, he carries a cut along the inner and outer edge of e foot towards the toes, separates the skin from the metatarsal bones, n all the integuments and muscles forming the sole of the foot, from the - naer pan of the metatarsus, with the edge of the knife close to the bone ■ i 0 JOIntf> detaches the four lesser metatarsal bones at this joint’ saws irough the projecting part of the first cuneiform bone connected* -jrrp/i ° -O great toe‘ A^ter the blood is stanched, the flaps are brought ogether with sutures. ° aEXARTICULATION OF 950 Scootetten, also, directs that the first cuneiform bone should be sawn off; tl operation of the m. tibialis anticus is not thereby interfered with. 2781. According to Lisfranc, the operator, after having ascertained the position of the parts, grasps the fore part of the foot with his le: hand, and with his right the catlin, then places, if he operate on the rigl foot, the hind part of its edge behind the projection of the fifth metatarsi bone, so that the edge forms a right angle with the axis of the joint; h divides the soft parts from without inwards, and a little from above down wards, and when he feels he has penetrated into the joint of the metatarsu with the cuboid bone, he raises the handle of the knife and passes throug the first two joints with the point held vertically, then through the thir joint, when he inclines it towards the toes, for the purpose of gettin; round the outer projection of the third cuneiform bone. He then finishe the division of the soft parts above by a cut which ends beneath the inne projection of the first metatarsal bone. He divides the cellular connexio; if the retraction of the skin be not sufficient. The hand of the operator i held prone, and with one cut before and another behind, he gets round with short strokes from before backwards, the projection just mentioned finds the joint at about the distance of a line, where it is distinguishable b; the absence of any obstacle, and by a little depression ; he readily passe- through this by describing a slight curve, the concavity of which correspond to the cuneiform bone. Without giving the foot any other direction, an< without the blade of the knife leaving the joint, the operator directs it, hek in the same position it had in passing over the inside of the first metatarsa' bone, between that bone, the first cuneiform, and the second metatarsa bone; he inclines the handle of the knife forwards so that its point mat penetrate deeper, and then raises the handle suddenly towards the tarsus. s< as to divide the ligaments. He proceeds to the hinder articulation, which he dislocates a little, brings the edge of the knife in a transverse direction and ends by dividing the connexion of the second metatarsal bone with the third cuneiform, by an opposite movement to that which had divided the connexion of the first metatarsal with the first cuneiform bone, taking cart to brino- the point of the foot slightly inwards. Attention in using on J the point of the knife in the exarticulation has the advantage of no injuring the soft parts in the sole, and of penetrating more easily the bones. The operator continues the operation by dividing the hin ligaments, holding the parts to be removed, vertically, and not nulrV located. He then carries the whole edge of the knife forwards, c the hinder edge of the metatarsal bones, and forms a Hap front t ie so_ ^ the foot, two inches long on the outer and inner side, and thick in so that it readily unites. After tying the vessels and cleansing the " > the flap is brought up over the surface of the wound, kept in its place '' ^ sticking plaster, covered with lint and compress, and supported moderately tight bandage. The foot is now placed in a rather raise* J ., tion upon a pillow in the bed, the leg half bent and laid on its oute ’ so that the discharge from the wound may readily escape , that the discharge from the wound may readily escape. ^ If the operation be performed on the left foot, the operation * ii _ : -Tr»r\f n 11 rl tlio nhnvp.nipnt inn fid dllC?Ct.lOH- JL1 lliu uucxawun J ' . * begun on the inside of the foot, and the above-mentioned directior knife must be followed out. . , . t5nn of this 2788. Munzentiialer (a) gives the following descriptio ^ . operation. The operator, placed on the inside of the lnno, i (a) Above cited, p. 20.METATARSAL BONES. 951 finger to the bone which bounds the tarsus, glides it from the toes to the ankle and acquaints himself with the projections which the connexion of the metatarsal and tarsal bones form at some parts. He marks the place of the joint with the thumb and forefinger of the left hand, places the edge of the knife behind the hind end of the fifth metatarsal bone, passes over the dorsal surface of the foot, at first from behind forwards, then from before backwards, and thus makes a semicircular cut which5 ends half an inch before the pit observed at the side of the joint of the cunei- form with the metatarsal bone. The knife is brought back again into the wound from within outwards, whilst an assistant draws the skin back towards the ankle, and thus the extensor tendons of the toes of both the j m- peroneus longus and brevis, the artery, and so on, are cut through. The operator now brings the point of the knife vertically behind the hind Eend of the fifth metatarsal bone, directs it inwards and forwards, cuts through the joint of the two last metatarsal bones, and divides the liga- 1 ™ents transversely. He now leaves this part and turns to the inside of ?he ' foot, and here directing the point of the knife upwards, and its edge out- j.; wards, cuts through the ligaments from below upwards, and from behind ! forwards, and penetrates the space between the bones, in the direction of ■a f'ne running to the middle of the fifth metatarsal bone. To disjoint the i second metatarsal bone, the knife performs a rotatory movement and its i edge is directed forwards. The operator brings the point obliquely from h below upwards, between the great cuneiform and the second metatarsal bone, and divides the soft parts near its inner edge, then raises the handle ■ the krnfe> cu.ts through the ligaments, and thus gets to the hind part of e the mortise which the second forms with the other cuneiform bones. He now again, holding the knife as usual, directs the point from without in- wards, and cuts through the dorsal ligaments without penetrating the joint • 1 *°r _the separation of the upper surface of the bones thereby connected a a Iu^reSSUre °f the left liancl uPon tlie end of the foot is sufficient, ’if he fibrous parts oppose the dislocation of the metatarsal bones they must be gradually cut through. The foot is now to be held horizontally between •adduction and abduction, and the Surgeon cuts through the plantar lio-a ments of the joint, separates the soft parts from the hinder ends of the metatarsus, carries the knife round them, cuts close to the lower surface ' ■> the row of bones, and forms, by cutting out obliquely, a flap, which on its inner side is two, and on the outer side, only one inch long1 If the left foot be operated on, the operator stands on the outside of the limb, cuts from the tibial to the fibular edge, and proceeds with thl r Operation as directed. 8 ’ Precis with the I MheXCt'd bill' S. »m 'XieMl W’ X- * >»"* *»° ■ ion on tbe first metatarsal bone, S be£“ft ttS* The projec- v Pastett-",h" bmS'bv “‘Tm SnlZm Z;/rtr‘°^K p,"”V. ’I*™ the projection I hrouffh with the (Ip if T bf l slU cartilaginous, this process should be cut ®prtlcula.ti°n the single metatarsal hones, must be tones whilsf that^fH °f the thl’ee °r W °uter metatarsal nes, whilst that of the great toe is preserved : second, the exarticulation'EXARTICULATION OF METATARSAL BONES. 952 of the great and little metatarsal bones: third, the exarticulation of one* of the middle metatarsal bones. 2190. The preservation of the great toe, when the other metatarsal i 1 bones are removed, is a great advantage to the patient. A cut should be'iJ made in the space between the great and second toe, and a second along.]* the outer edge of the foot, and both connected at one or two fingers’- iJ breadth below the tarsal joint on the instep ; the skin is then drawn back, W and the joint opened from the outer edge of the foot, after which a large<|‘ flap is cut from the sole (a). The outer two metatarsal bones are removed in the same way. 2791. The exarticulation of the metatarsal bone of the great toe is - performed most conveniently, in the following way:—A small amputat- j ing knife is entered on the outer side of the great toe, at a stroke, through! j the soft parts, between the metatarsal bone of the great and second toe up \ to the joint of the former, with the cuneiform bone. Then the metatarsal ] bone of the great toe being drawn inwards, the whole edge of the knife is 4 carried into the joint, and whilst this is done the great toe is pressed for- -j cibly inwards, till the metatarsal bone is completely dislocated. The edged of the knife is then carried round the joint-surface, and being kept closed to the outer side of the metatarsal bone at its connexion with the greats toe, forms a flap sufficient to cover the whole surface of the wound. The' dressing is like that in amputation through this bone. 2792. If the state of the soft parts will not allow the formation of a side flap, a lower or upper flap must be made in the same way as in ampu- tating through the bone (par. 2729) after a longitudinal cut has been.J made on the outside of the metatarsal bone of the great toe. Or Lan- genbeck’s or Scoutetten’s method may be adopted ; though the opera- tion is then more tedious and difficult. When the situation of the joint has been found by feeling with the finger, and the place (par. 2788 note) marked, the point of the left forefinger is put on this part, and the other fino-ers, excepting the thumb, placed on the sole, for the purpose of sup- porting the foot. A cut is now made, beginning two lines behind the joint, and continued obliquely, from within outwards to the commissure« of the toes, to the base of the first phalanx opposite the crease of the« joint, on the sole. This cut is now left, and the bistoury, placed on the inside of the phalanx at the lower angle of the cut, is carried up along, the inner side of the toe and metatarsal bone, obliquely from within out- wards, to the beginning of the cut. After dividing the skin, the kmte is carried anew into the wound, and successively cuts through the ten oik, muscular fibres, and skin on the sole of the foot, leaving the two sesa moid bones attached to the joint, and separates from the metatarsal bon 1 the skin attached to its inner side. The joint is now again sought for opened, the point of the bistoury being held vertically, and the edge a litu obliquely from within outwards, and from behind forwards. As the in- ternal ligament is divided, the knife is drawn backwards, and the undiviueu fibres of the upper ligament cut through whilst the edge of the knife ^ directed upwards, and the point sunk obliquely at an angle of 4o m space between the first cuneiform, and the second metatarsal bone a knife, of which the point has been thrust down to the soie of the foo , raised to a right angle, and by tins movement, the fibres of the nit (b) Key ; in Guy’s Hospital Reports, vol. i. p. 2-H. 1S30>.EXARTICULATION OF TOES. '953 seous ligament are cut through, and the metatarsal bone, still a little attaciied, is to be completely separated and removed. If the operation be performed on the right foot, the place of the joint must be found with the forefinger of the right hand, and the left forefinger placed there to point it out, and whilst with the other fingers the foot1 is held, grasping its outer edge, the first cut is made on the inside. 2793. In exarticulation of the metatarsal hone of the little toe, the proceeding is the same as in the former case. That of the little and fourth toe is performed, according to Scoutetten, by the same method as for : removing the metatarsal bone of the great toe. 2794. The middle metatarsal hones may he removed from their con- nexion with the tarsal bones, according to Scoutetten, by the oval cut which is preferable to the method with two side cuts. In these exarticulations of the metatarsal bones, the affected tarsal bones may be also at the same time removed. Key removed at once the outer four metatarsal bones he second and third cuneiform and the cuboid bones. Dieffenbach (a) took away the outer two metatarsal and cuboid bone; and in another case, the inner two with the two cuneiform and the navicular bone. Ruykr (b) in an exarticulation of the first metatarsal, removed also the first and second cuneiform bones. V.—OF EXARTICULATION OF THE TOES. {Exarticulatio Digitorum Pedis, Lat.; Exarticulation der Zehen, Germ.; Desarticu- lation des Orteils, Fr.) 219o. In exarticulation of the toes from their connexion with the me tatarsal bones an under, upper, or side flap, or the oval cut, may be made according to the state of the soft parts. ^ 2796 If an under flap have to be formed, after the situation of the joint is determined, a transverse cut should be made over its upper surface which divtdes the front and part of the side connexions of the joint. From both angles of this cut on either side of the toe a cut descends, dividing he side connexions of the joint. The toe is then pressed downwards to hslocate it, the connexions behind are divided, the knife carried alone- the under s,,'fee of the bone, and the flap made through^ side lAfter the bleeding has been stanched, the flap is brought over the surfact f the wound, and kept in place with straps of plaster. In forming the flap upon the dorsal surface, a longitudinal cut is nnrlo each side, with the knife held horizontally, beginning from the W ? ln.d contlnued to the junction of the first with the second phalanx Tl ^ nde cuts are connected by a transverse one across the dorsal^ surfece and he flap separated up to the joint, into which whilst the • ’ fcr"’ ‘he k"ife " c"hd> “d and soft ™ (") Hamburger Zeitsclirift, vol. i. part i n ,, , . pan i. (/,) Uevue Medicale, 1832 ; vol. iv. p. 1ST.954 EXARTICULATION OF ARM AT SHOULDER; turned down, and the first phalanx dislocated, after the flap has beepfl turned back. To prevent the protrusion of the head of the metatarsal bone in exarticulation of the « great and little toes, Dupuytren saws off the head with a fine saw. 2798. In exarticulation of the second from the first phalanx, that which m is to be removed must be bent backwards, a transverse cut made directly* into the joint, and all the soft parts divided to its hind surface. They//<a-« lanx is now dislocated, the knife carried round the joint, and the flap i; made from the soft parts below sufficient to cover the wound. It is, how- ever better when only one phalanx is to be removed, to exarticulate the-: whole toe, because the remaining stump is inconvenient. 2799. If all the toes have to he exarticulated at once, a semilunar cub: must be made on the dorsal surface from the great to the little toe, or the contrary, through the general coverings, the joints opened and the knife- carried forwards and downwards opposite to and through the crease of skin: which bounds the sole of the foot in front. 2800. In exarticulation of the toes from their connexion with the metan tarsal bones, the position of the joint having been, according to Scoutet- i ten, ascertained by moving the toes, the point of the bistoury is to be< placed a line behind the joint, and carried to the base of the toe along the crease in the skin there existing. The bistoury is now again entered from the other side into the end of the first cut, and carried upwards around the toe to the beginning of that cut. It is then passed through the whole! wound to cut through whatever remains attached, and the. tendons ol the extensor muscles ; and an assistant lifts up the phalanx, whilst the cellular.! tissue surrounding the joint, and the sheath of the tendons of the flexor’j muscles are divided ; the phalanx is then grasped with the fingers of the left hand, and operation completed by division of the lateral ligaments. VI.—OF EXARTICULATION OF THE ARM AT THE SHOULDER. (Exarticulatio Humeri, Lat.; Abl'dsung des Oberarmes aus dem Schultergclenke, Germ.; Disarticulation du Bras, Fr.) La Faye ; in Me'moires de l’Academie Royale de Chirurgie, vol. ii. p. 239. Le Laumier et Poyet, Thes. de Methodis amputandi Braehium in articulo. Paris, - 1759. Dahi., De Amputatione Humeri in articulo. Gotting®, 1 <90. Plattner, Ernst, Zusatze zu seines Vaters Einleituug in die Chirurgie, vol. i. p. 432-:' Leipzig, 1776. Haselberc, Comment, in qua novum humerum exarticulo exstirpandi methodnm, novumque ad ligaturam polyporum instrumentum proponit. Gryphiswald, 1788. Seeburc, Dissert. Exstirpatio Ossis Humeri exemplo felici probata. Viteb., 1<95- Kloss, Dissert. De Amputatione Humeri ex Articulo. Gott., 1809. Sohiferli; in Hufeland’s Journal, vol. xx. part iii. p. 161. Walther, above cited, p. 102. Fraser, William, Essay on the Shoulder-Joint Operation, principally deduced from anatomical observation. Loudon, 1813. Lisfranc de St. Martin ct Chamfesme, Nouveau Precede ope'ratoire pour 1’Ampu- tation du Bras dans son articulation scapulo-liuinerale. Paris, 1815. Emert; in Bulletin de la Socicte d’Emulation. 1815, May. De Claubiiy, Gualtier; in Journal de Medecine par Leroux, &c., vol. ***"• 1815.WITH UPPER AND UNDER FLAPS. 955 Oberteuffer, J. G., Anatomisch-chirurgische Abhandlung von der Losung des Oberarmes aus dem Schultergelenke. Wiirzburg, 1823. 8vo. ° p ^aRET> Mem0ire de Cbirurgie Militaire, vol. ii. p. 166; vol. iii. p. 354; vol. iv. Guthrie, above cited, p. 420. Klein, above cited, p. 1. Maingault, above cited. Ammon, Parallele der franzosischen und deutschen Chirurgie, p. 235. 2801. Amputation of the upper-arm at the shoulder-joint is the easiest of the extirpations from the great joints. It was first performed by the elder Mokand Of the several modes recommended for performing the opera- tion, the following may be considered the most important: First, the formation of an upper and under flap; Second, the formation of two side flaps ; Third, the circular; and, Fourth, the oval cut. 2802. The patient either sits on a stool, or lies on a tabie covered with a mattress, with the side to be operated on turned to the light, and is to be properly held by assistants.. The subclavian artery is to be compressed by an assistant standing behind the patient, either with his fingers or with a compressor (Ehrlich’s) against the first rib. /nhr:rPOn the Sllbclavian ai'tery by an assistant is better than the application oi Dahl or Mohrenheim s compressor. When the collnr hnnp . 01? IEpit S«e"fhe SSXMES5^ ££ T ,2r03' Tl‘e >»'»""<»" °f m uPPer and under flap, as recommended by W.rnfJ. ’ “d °‘hers, been veiy carefully laid down by cl !'U ^ f ''I’ltt-r-ami to be removed, is brought to the side of the chest and there held by an assistant. A small amputating knife is to be thrust m, at the outermost tip of the coracoid process, up to the bone its dge sunk along the inner edge of the deltoid muscle and carried do ™ to its '"senon cutting through all the flesh to the bone. A second cm parallel to this is carried from the outer upper angle of flip Mode k * down also to the insertion of the deltoid JEe .The?w„^lowefa'ngta bone The” fl r -k n co"nectecl by a transverse cut down to “the one. The flap described by these three cuts is now separated from t ! bone up to the beginning of the two side cuts, turned blck and held \ an assistant, who at the same time com pres es the divided > humeral artery, if it be not at once tied Til dlvTd circumflex of the capsular ligament are'made tense a“(1.the outer side on the head nf tL u tense- 1 iie thumb be ng then placed 0«Vto^hwU?;^:iXV^^PeI i"0'11 1Vi.th "bole1 s being rolled outwards ■md hi l i 1 * !e,Parts covering the head, which ligament and hew. backwards, tightens the inside of the capsular 00 Nosogrnphio Chirurgicale, vol. iv. p. 511. Edit, of 1815.956 EXARTICULATION OF ARM AT SHOULDER; wards the bone, down on its hinder surface, and the under flap formed, as- it cuts out obliquely downwards about four fingers’ breadth below the joint; before doing which, an assistant grasps the flap and compresses the artery.. After stanching the bleeding and cleansing the wound, the two flaps' are brought together and fastened with sticking plaster; lint and com- presses are then put upon the stump and confined with a body-bandage,. the middle of which upon the shoulder has a hole in it through which the sound arm can be slipped. The earlier methods of Le Dran and Garengeot need only he mentioned as mat- ters of history ; they first took up the axillary artery with a straight or curved needle, two fingers’ breadth below tbe armpit, then with a transverse cut three fingers breadth 1 below the acromion, they divided the skin and deltoid muscle, and after separating the. head formed an under flap. 2804. According to Dufuytren (a), the arm should be raised and held at a right angle with the body. The operator placing himself on the inside of the arm, grasps and lifts up the deltoid muscle with the one hand, thrusts a double-edged knife through it from within outwards,, takino- care that its blade never slips from the head of the bone, lhe knife with its edge towards the bone is drawn downwards, and the uppert flap formed by cutting obliquely outwards. The rest of the proceeding: corresponds with that above described, only that the operator holds the flap before he cuts it through. Here must be mentioned Onsenoort’s method. By means of a knife curved towards • its surface, a transverse cut is made an inch and a half above the insertion of the del- toid muscle; the knife with its concavity on the bone is pushed up to the acromion, penetrates the joint, and by its concave side being drawn down upon the bone the under flap is cut off, so that by a continued stroke of the knife the two flaps are formed. 2805. Lisfranc and Champesme proceed in the following manner. The arm is brought to the side and left to itself. The operator standing: in front of the shoulder drops the point of a narrow double-edged knife into the triangular space between the coracoid process and front edge ot the acromion, and carries it from before to behind through the joint, so that it passes out half an inch below the part where the ^omton voan*. The knife is then carried from above and before around the head of upper-arm bone and a flap formed from the deltoid, as m Dupuytrex s method. This flap being lifted up by an assistant, the capsu ar bga- ment is found opened, and the whole knife being carried in behind the head, the lower flap is formed as after La Faye s mode. If’the left arm be operated on, the knife is to be ^ ‘the left hand, or being held with the right hand, is thrust in at the back of the joint, where it lias been mentioned as coming out, m the method already described, and out at the triangular space, by the coracoid process. f Asti.icy Cooper’s (b) amputation at the shoulder-joint “with a single flap, as n Arp and which he prefers, differs little from the last-described operation, except m the Cot SdeS mSemade from below and up jot. dj. “The sub- Sian artery is to be compressed upon the first rib, from above the clavicle by anas s staT The ring of a common key covered with some soft linen is a convenient ii«W sistant. ine fe canted on a low chair, and the arm to ue ; T. i* fit l rniffot a common ney tu>uiu , ’ . , f kg ° ___ Th<> mtipnt should be seated on a low chair, and the arm to removed should ife' ekvated a little from the sick by an assistant^ In making thesinge , , pipvated a little trom tne sine oy an ussisumi. m ‘“X.V "j removed slioi „ ti,p deltoid muscle with the fingers and thumb of his left hat > flap, the Surgeon raises the deltoid , % under the muscle, near its in- and introducing ns far as the under part of the acromion sertion, lie cuts upwards cj* 1 f (he deftoid muscle are thus raised, so as com- S" - ** then drawn d.w- (6) Lectures, by Tyrrell, vol. pletely to expose («) Dictionnaire ties Sciences Mi-ilicales, vol. i. p. 4%957 WITH INNER AND OUTER FLAPS. ST S; « - wards, the catlin is passed into the joint, at the anterior part, so as to divide the tendon of the biceps muscle, and afterwards is carried round the head of the bone to cut through the capsular ligament. The separation of the limb may be completed either by passing the knife over the head of the bone, and cutting downwards to the axilla or by placing the knife in the axilla, and dividing upwards to the joint; in either case the amputation should be finished by one stroke of the catlin.” (pp. 429, 30.)] 2806. The elder Hesselbach’s (a) method differs from those already described in forming the under flap first. The patient sits on a stool and the operator standing before him, with his left hand grasps the upper-arm beneath the insertion of the deltoid muscle, and rolling it outwards, so as well to distinguish the coracoid process from the little tubercle on the head of the upper-arm-bone,. thrusts a long, narrow, double-edged knife near the coracoid process, obliquely outwards up to the head of the bone so as at once to open the joint; the knife then carried, with its point close on the bone, down to the lower edge of the great pectoral muscle, cuts through its tendon and that of the subscapular muscle, the acromial tho- racic and anterior circumflex humeral arteries, fie then rolls the head of the bone inwards, thereby rendering the hind muscles tense, and draws it as much as possible from the blade-bone, whilst at the same time he presses the lower end of the upper-arm-bone against the chest. He now carries the knife between the head of the bone and the joint-surface of the blade-bone, through the joint, thrusts, whilst he drops the handle of the knife a little, through the hinder thin part of the deltoid muscle, below the acromion, and carrying the knife down close to the bone, forms the under ap, the vessels in which being at the same time compressed by an assist- n' Afitb ‘ead ° tie fnVS now Pressed downwards, by an assistant out of the opened capsular ligament, as the elbow is separated from the trunk, and the whole knife being placed above the head of the bone is ITipper flap" ^ the b°ne’t0 the end of the first flaP> and forms 2807. Desault (b) has given the following directions for formina cm nner and an outer flap. A double-edged straight amputating knife is thrust from before, into the joint, and after its point lias passed on the inner side of the upper-arm, through the arm-pit., drawn down close to the Zl! f finge.S’ breadth’ and thus a flaP * formed containing the essels which an assistant grasps, and compresses. The whole knife is^then SalV the ',ead 0f the uPPer*arm'k°ne) and forms a r r oi- u,e SW S3ZS “ f°r «" *• *'ere may £ shoulder, and two flaps a fore and hind nnn f ]he ‘lr.m. 18 drawn back towards the the same time compresses Z t ! and they are drawn up by an assistant, who at •V laid bare, (a) OHERTETTVn-n UaF (a) Oberteuffer, above cited. («) Haselbero, above cited. (<0 Above cited, vol. ii. p. 170. (d) Above cited, vol. iv. p. 407",EXARTICULATION OF ARM AT SHOULDER; 958 ligament and tendons are divided. The head of the bone is now moved a little outwards, and the knife carried down close to the hind surface of the bone for the purpose of r completely dividing the tendinous and ligamentous connexions at this part. The assistant i now places the forefinger of both hands immediately upon the brachial plexus for the purpose of compressing the artery; and the edge of the knife being turned backwards, cuts opposite the lower angle of both flaps, through the whole bundle of axillary nerves before the two fingers of the assistant. _ . Langenbeck (a), after drawing down and pressing the arm against the chest, makes ■ with a small knife a cut into the deltoid muscle, so that the head of the bone may be conveniently dislocated, carries the knife behind it, and forms on the inner surface of the upper arm a sufficiently large flap, in doing which, the edge of the knife is carried: down close to the bone, the head of the bone grasped and drawn towards the operator, so that the axillary artery may not be cut off too high. Dupuytken’s (o) method cor- - responds with this. 2808. The exarticulation of the upper arm with the circular cut is- variously performed. Mouand made a circular cut in the skin, drew it back, and then cut through the muscles close to the head of the bone, exposed it and di\ idedI the ligaments. , , , ... Sharp proceeded in like manner, only he first laid bare the axillary artery by a longitudinal cut and tied it. ^ Nannoni and Bertrandi first made a transverse cut. three fingers breadth below the acromion, through the skin and deltoid muscle, and' drawing them back cut into the capsular ligament, dislocated the head of the bone, and after tying the axillary artery, cut through the armpit (1). Alanson made a circular cut a hand’s breadth below the acromion, through the skin, and with the edge of the knife directed obliquely upwards, through the muscles, and afterwards, for the more easy division of the joint, he made a straight cut through the upper part of the de toid muscle. Graefe (e) lays down the following rules for Ins funnel-shaped cut ( Trichterschnitt.) The arm being held nearly horizontally, the cut through the skin is made three fingers’ breadth below the acromion, and then the cut through the muscles with his leaf-knife, pressed obliquely upwards to the head of the bone. An assistant draws the muscular mass upwards with both hands, and then, the head being rolled forwards and upwards, the capsular ligament is opened, first, on the fore and upper, and afterwards, upon the upper and back part of the head with the leaf-knife, held oblique \ , the tendon of the m. biceps is cut through, the arm drawn by the operator towards himself, and the head being thereby dislocated, the under hinder part of the capsular ligament is divided. The vein is to be also tied, an the wound brought together in a vertical direction with one suture. (1) Counuau and Sanson’s method agrees precisely with this, makes the semicircular cut through the deltoid muscle, of foui hngert: brcadm, and the latter ouly a finger’s breadth below the acromion. ^ elpeau s (d) method jf ‘bltvvT'BELL’s (e) operation consists in one circular cut at the point of the deltoid B i« n,rnueli the skin, and a second through the muscles, and tying the artery; then muscle ti p from the acromion, and behind from the top of the shoulderf run1 down into the circular cut, after which the flaps thus formed are separated i from the bone and its head set free. 2809 In exarticulation of the upper-arm with the oval cut, Scoutet- ten (f) proceeds in the following manner:-! lie operator, haymgsa fied himself of the situation of the acromion, grasps, if operating on the (a) Htbliothek fur .lie Oururgie, W-iv. p.oOo lb) Lecons Orales, vol. m. p- (c) Above cited, p. 110, pKii. and nl. (d) Modecine Operatoire, vol. I. p- 39. (ej Above cited, vol. vi. p. 417. (/) Above cited, p. 15, pi. »• and it.959 WITH CIRCULAR, AND WITH OVAL CUT. left arm the middle of the upper-arm with the left hand, brings it about four or five fingers breadth away from the trunk, and thrusts a pointed knife, immediately below the acromion, up to the head of the humerus. The edge of the knife is now sunk deeply, carried downwards and inwards and thus the first cut is completed, which stretches down four fino-ers’ breadth from the acromion, and upon the bone divides the hind third of the deltoid muscle and the greater part of the fibres of the lon°- head of the 7«. triceps. The operator now places the knife, with its point down- wards, on the inside of the arm, and beginning the second cut upon the other side of the m. triceps, at the same height as the end of the first cut cames it inwards and upwards to the acromion where it meets with the former. In order to lay bare the joint better, that part of the deltoid muscle attached to the humerus may be a little separated, and the edges of the wound drawn apart by an assistant. The upper-arm is now to&be moved about in different directions, and the tendons and capsular lio-a ment, being divided together, the head of the bone is lifted1 out of the j nt, and the arm being pressed towards the body, the whole knife is carried round it close to the bone, the humeral arteJy compressed in the cutThrough! aSS1Stant’ and the stlH undivided Parts> containing the vessels, When the right arm is operated on, the first cut must be made from operationVthlram°emt “P ‘° ^ b“*’ in 0ther ‘he ; {^S^SKT* “d s y- ",h so as to fc™ ‘ Blasics s oblique cut may also here be mentioned. urtlrnUfAS !’,eSai'ds tIie cll01ce of tIie above-mentioned methods for ex articulating the upper-arm-bone, the following circumstances must hi |attended to. It must here be considered, as in every other exStin tin whether Tf7 tllG S(ift PartS are injured’ whether the bone be broken and nether the arm be more or less movable The methnrl nt* ’,and must be directed by these circumstances, and the fo^maul LT^1 •undertaken in such way as the condition of the soft parts allows and 10 on. is contradictor! a*< wpII k,r . e escaPe the pus, and nd is no reason for preferring ? „ ^ °'vn experience as by that of others, lap. o ie vertical wound with an outer and inner |< •<!’8 "Kl opmUoM he joint are often ,wnll ’ i • 1 ,in& Persons where the parts about movable, and the head Jflh?™118 Y ‘^T*’ the arm littIe or at ’ unu me head of the upper-arm-bone firmly drawn into the (n) Journal do Mcdecine, vol. xevi. p. 102.1S2G.960 EXARTICULATION OF ARM AT SHOULDER. socket, by the contraction of the muscles, this method is, for beginner; especially, in most cases unsafe. The point of the knife is easily eaugliti, must be carried inwards and forwards in various ways, and the like Beginners find out that here, as in many other of the modes of exarticula-tj tion proposed in modern times, sleights of hand, which are readih per- formed upon the dead body, are unavailable in cases of necessity. Law genbeck (a) has already justly objected to Graefe s method that the- knife with its edge turned outwards is not fit to be rolled about, and I especially in the extended position of the arm, that the much-stretcheaJ axillary artery would be cut through too near the shoulder-joint, anc mi°ht retract so greatly as to cause great difficulty in tying it. 9811. When, after exarticulation of the upper-arm-bone, the acror/norA or ""the glenoid cavity is in any way injured, so that its removal may bed considered necessary, it is easily done with the saw (b). Brown saweo off the projecting acromion, for the purpose of making an liisufficien .1 quantity of skin better cover the wound. Robinson (c) recommend;! removal of the acromion and the glenoid cavity, so that the stump maj be made rounder and more regular. Fraser (d) also proposes the removal of a portion of the acromion and coracoid process, togethei \w the whole glenoid cavity, because they hinder the quick union of tin narts bv the adhesive inflammation (1). Supported by the law of the formation of the bone, in consequence oo which the top of the acromion remains cartilaginous to the age of fron eleven to fifteen years, Lisfranc (e) recommends, for persons of th.. a^e the following practice Be the position of the arm what it may, th< operator places the heel of the amputating knife upon the outer side of th«| top of the coracoid process, and carries it up to the hind edge of the arm. St The flap thus formed is lifted up, the cartilage of the acromwA and collar-bone cut into, the joint readily entered, and the under flaj.1 formed in the usual way. , , of continuity. Lu a''c'-'TU causes inflammation, suppuration, and destructioi head of the bone, and if it be lett it causes in neces£ary. In such cases dies of the bone, which render the exarticulat on c,f head of the bone.o symptoms must be guarded agains , y y m,ddle of the deltoid musch of the broken pieces. Larrey (/) made a the woum parallel to its fibres carried it dmvn theSpsular figament is gene Sl^plS’ with a curved,_ the »». fcSjP ™ - - 1** which permits !™t°«!ourom a musket-ball, causing a fracture beneath am Guthrie (g) says th. t ltl „h in its immediate vicinity, by no means de exterior to the capsular ig. alon| with a wound from a musket-ball passm| mands amputation^f bone, in the same situation, without destroying its su ,he ”™ (d) Al>ovecited. .. „fig23 Above cited, p. .W4- de Chi- (e) Avebii-i., above cited, p. 130. k. i \\ (fcj Faub ; in Mcmoiresde 1 Academic de C M6moires de Chirtxrgie Militaire, '»*• ^New ‘England Journal, vol. HI. ^ p. 424. 1814.EXARTICULATION OF FORE-ARM AT ELBOW. 961 [(1) Unless disease of the acromion, glenoid cavity, or coracoid process, imperatively require their removal, when amputation at the shoulder-joint is performed, or when by accident the skin is not of sufficient length to cover the joint, the proposal of removing these processes, or either of them, is not to be entertained; no real advantage is to be gained from it; and if it be believed, that the continuance of the cartilage upon the glenoid cavity offer any bar to union in the ordinary time, which, so far as my own personal experience, and the observations I have made in the practice of others, is certainly not proved, the Surgeon may scrape off the cartilage, if he have a fancy to do so, but it is matter of no consequence at all. Amputations at the shoulder-joint are not very frequently needed, as it appears from Listons reported cases, he had but one in University College Hospital during five years, and myself only one in six years at St. Thomas’s, both secondary to accident, and both recovered. Astley Cooper says“ In every instance in which I have performed tbe amputation through this joint, and every case in which I have seen it done, the re- covery of the patient has been speedy and perfect.” (p. 432.) ] Amputation through Shoulder-Joint. Accident or Disease. Operated on Remarks. Dis- charged. 1840 John Bateman, aged 39 (coal- carman), admit- ted July 25. Compound fracture, with comminution and small wound in skin, hut not much bruising; conse- quent on cart-wheel passing upon, but not over the arm. On the fourth day irritative fever set in ; the whole arm much swollen. On the sixth day some bloody oozing, which continued through the day, and reduced him much. Bleeding came on again on morning of twelfth dayt to the amount of six ounces ; said to have been in a jet, but seemed to me to be venous; but it brought him very low. Was easily checked by pressure ; and when he was revived by stimu- lants, the operation was performed. Aug. 6. Twelve day3 after. With flap of m. deltoides by piercing from before. The artery held ns the second cut was being made. Six arteries tied, and three hours after two more. The flap was dropped down, and covered with a wet cold cloth. He became very restless soon after the operation, and so continued for nine hours, till the opium given sent him to sleep. At twenty-two hours the flap wa3 lightly applied with straps of plaster. Went on very steadily improving; but the dis- charge from the wound was very profuse. Nov. 10. VII.-OF EXARTICULATION OF THE FORE-ARM AT THE ELBOW. (Exarticulatio Antebrachii, Lat.; Ablosung des Vorderarmes im Ellenbogengelenke, Uerm.; Disarticulation de VAvant Bras, Fr.) Brasdor, above cited. Moublet; in Journal de Me'deciue, vol. xi. p. 240. Mann; in New York Medical Repository, vol. vii. 1821. Textor ; in Neuer Chiron, vol. i. part i. Dupuytren ; in Sabatier Medecine Opcratoire, vol. iv. p. 524. New Edition Rodger ; in New York Medical and Physical Journal, vol. vii. p. 85. r.iS2bvTKLS.r„rfi0n’ P,erf°Ted Pa1,e'’ and f«Hy deter- hr',|',|' y,,P j R'“ °1l,J«'lej to by nearly all writers, and amputation P ° ^ lower third of the fore-arm is preferred to it. Mann ul]yTOR’ upuytrenj antl others have, however, performed it success- ion- •— A VtH °pefation is best Performed according to Textor’s direc- • : ^ [ raaking provision against the bleeding during the operation arm beimr straio-htonprl r, lr..,™ n„..ui„ ..... , .. F; ..un, -1 the arm being straightened, a° long doubl^cS'^^i^Sis 3q962 EXARTICULATION OF FORE-ARM AT ELBOW. passed in at the top of the outer condyle of the upper-arm-bone, carried) flat before the bend of the elbow, and thrust through before and above the inner condyle, at corresponding height to the point ot entrance, and then being drawn down, a flap is formed of three or four fingers’ breadth long. The vessels found in this flap may be at once tied. A cut through, the skin is next made on the opposite side of the arm, two fingers’ breadth 1 below the entrance of the former, extending from one end of the existing: wound to the other, and the skin is dissected back to set the olechranon < free. The external ligament is now cut through, the knife, carried between the upper-arm-bone and the radius, and the fore-arm being bent, cuts- through the tendon of the m. triceps, and lastly, the internal lateral liga- ment. According to Brasdor, a transverse cut should be made through the skin and tendon of the m. triceps on the extending side of the arm ; the ligaments are then divided, and. the whole knife, the arm being bent, is carried through the joint, and forms from the inside of the arm a fleshy flap. Jaeger favours this method. The fore-arm being bent at a right or an oblique, angle, he makes a semicircular cut through the skin with a small convex amputating- knife, two fingers’ breadth below the point of the olechranon, from the head of the* radius to the outer edge of the ulna. The skin is drawn back by an assistant above thei olechranon, and the tendon of the m. triceps cut through, by which the joint is opened. Whilst the fore-arm is bent still more, the lateral ligaments between the upper-arm-bone and the olechranon and the ulna aud radius are opened, the knife is carried over the coronoid process upon the front of both bones, the arm being slightly bent, and by cut- ing from within outwards, a flap of three fingers’ breadth is formed, which the assistant grasps before its complete division, and compresses the brachial artery. FIager makes two longitudinal cuts of three inches length, down from the condyles to the ulna and radius, by which he marks out the front flap. An inch below the upper angle he makes a semicircular cut through the skiu and muscles behind, separates the little flap upwards, passes into the joint from behind, and forms the front flap, two inches or two inches aud a half long. Rodger forms the front flap with a semicircular cut, from the head of the radius to the inner condyle, and by separating the skin he forms the hind flap. After which the joint is cut through. _ , , , Dupuytren’s (a) agreed with Textor’s method, except that he sawed ofl the olechranon. He performed this operation eight or ten times successfully, and preferred it as giving a greater length of the upper-arm, and leaving the in. triceps attached, by sawing oft the olechranon. When the soft parts are not sufficient to form a front flap, Uiji’UYTRKN made a circular cut through the skin and aponeurosis, the fore-arm being half bent, three fingers’ breadth below the condyles of the upper-arm-bone. These parts are drawn back by an assistant, and the muscles cut through at their edge down to the bone. Whilst the operator separates them upwards from the bones, he reaches the joint, _i • i. • i u.: *i,„ inl lirmmonts nnri the oansular Inrament on the which is opened by dividing the lateral ligaments and the capsular ligament on the front. The knife then easily passes between the bones and the operation is complete^. •one. ine icnixe men easuy passes uawccu —, Velpeau and Cornuau proceed in like manner with the circular cut, only they o not saw through but exarticulate the olechranon. _ , Textor (6) proposes the oval cut, which, however, is more difficult and not so a - vantageous as the flap, in the following way. The arm being brought horizontal, the fore-arm straightened, and the hand prone, the Surgeon standiug on the outer side makes, with a small amputating knife, one cut about four inches long and penetrating to the bone, from the head of the radius obliquely upwards and inwards to above the tip of the olechranon, and then a second on the ulnar side from the upper end of the ulna, to the same height. He then dissets back the flaps to their base, passes between tbe unner-arni hone and radius, upon and around the olechranon. and cuts through the ten- don of the m. triceps, whilst the fore-arm is bent and supine. He now cuts fbrwaros i and downwards over the coronoid process of the ulna, above the head of the radius an along both bones so far upwards as necessary to form a flap three fingers breadth long- The wound is brought together lengthways. . a . lhe Baudens proceeds in another way. The fore-arm being rendered supine and th brachial artery compressed, the Surgeon, standing on the inner side if he operate on w (n) Logons Oralcs, vol. iii. p* 31P. (5) Jaeoer, above cited, p. 365.963 EXARTICULATION OF HAND, &c. left, ami on the outer if upon the right arm, marks with varnish an oval, which begins on the outer edge of the radius four fingers’ breadth below the bend of the elbow, and terminates on the hind edge of the ulna three fingers’ breadth below the bend of the arm. Following this mark he cuts through the skin, which, by dividing its connexions and diawing back with his left hand, he separates to the extent of eighteen lines. He then cuts through the muscles down to the bone, holds back the fleshy parts like a ball and divides the deep muscles circularly, at the same time passing between the joint surfaces of the uppei-arm-bone and radius, and completes the exarticulation by division of the ligaments and of the tendon of the m. triceps near the tip of the olechranon. The soft £ 'I ',Cn,°'ViU W6lsht dl'op °™T the j°int surfaces and form a hollow globe in the point of which the joint surface of the humerus is found. After tying the vessels the wound is brought together lengthways. * 8 6 VIII.—OF EXARTICULATION OF THE HAND AT THE WRIST. (Exarticulatio Manus, Lat. Ahlosuny der Hand, Germ. Poignet, Fr.) Disarticulation du 2814. The brachial artery is to be compressed with the tourniauet • one assistant holds the fore-arm and draws the skin back, a second holds the hand. 1 he operator, standing on the inner side for the left, and on ie outer for the right hand, makes a circular cut through the skin half an inch from the spinous process of the radius. The skin is next dissected up, without the tendons, to the wrist, turned inside out, and held by the ~ I ie 'ianc 18 now Put between pronation and supination, the knife placed before the spinous process of the radius, and whilst the hand s piessed down, the whole knife is carried into the joint, obliquely to- vaids the ulna, and divides all the ligaments and tendons. The edg-es of dtSTof “heejo‘rS ,he VeSSClS’ are br0Ught t0getl,C1' in t,le °“ong is*1 nVle fb°,Ve'Cles,cnbed mode of proceeding is better than by dividing the skin and tpnd™ „ the f thG hflaDd by a suniicircula'' to pass into the join® anfdrawinfdow, I™ ku'fe, toform a flap on the front of the band. Or, according to Lisfranp tlf„ i , ' 6 ^ -betTeel? Pronation and supination, a narrow knife is thrust through the tnft ^ parts opposite the joint on the palmar surface from one side to theXrandfhen\ • ■ drawn down forms a flap; after which a semicircular cut is throSi TheTkto^ g dhe dorsa! surface, the flap turned back and the joint divided fFom Z fadZ UP°n , amputation through the wrist-joint be performed with flans sneeiil nn,'a * i f ken to avoid, in forming the front flap, the pisiform kmfe, and unless well cleared, spoils the edge of the skin-cut.-J. F. S.] catches the (X.-OF bqnes at thfjr nWdlp an/ : 18 n0T,tO be COnsidered- The exarticulation of the ase boin rU1^ metacarpal bones is not to be recommended. The dis- ttender! ^ |f°.I?^ned *° any one °f these bones, tlie operation is C Collections of pus take place in^he carp’? InvV ee 1 • exartlcldatlon of the hand afterwards becomes necessary as have seen ,n two cases. It is better therefore under such cTrmim! 3 Q 2EXARTICULATION OF THE METACARPAL 964 stances, to amputate through the continuity of the metacarpal bones of thew middle and ring fingers. _ H 2816. In exarticulating the metacarpal hone of the thumb, if the soft '■ parts permit the formation of a side flap, it must be thus performed. An™ assistant, who holds the fore-arm, compresses the radial and ulnar arteries.-<| The operator holding the thumb with one hand abducts it strongly, so as to ji render the fold of skin between it and the forefinger tense. He now car- j ries a straight bistoury in this fold to the connexion of the first phalanx i of the thumb with its metacarpal bone, and along the side of the meta-- carpal bone to the joint. The thumb is now violently abducted to stretchu the ligaments, the whole knife carried into the joint, the metacarpal bone dislocated, the knife carried up on the other side of the bone, jind along it,, to its junction with the first phalanx, where, by cutting obliquely out, the- flap is formed, which corresponds precisely to the first cut. After tyingg the vessels the flap is properly applied and fastened with strips of stickingg plaster, and a bandage. Where the formation of a side flap is not possible, and only an upper or under flap can be formed, the same mode must be employed as describedo in exarticulation of the metatarsal bone of the great toe. 2817. In precisely the same way may the metacarpal bones of the ring.- and lit tie fingers be separated from their connexion with the carpus, only) that these exarticulations are more difficult than that of the thumb. 2818. Langenbeck’s method of shelling out the bone from the soft parts by carrying forwards a A shaped cut from the junction of the meta-.- carpal bone of the thumb with the trapezium, and then cutting through j the joint, is more troublesome and tedious than that described. Scoutetten (a) has also applied his method to the metacarpal bone* of the forefinger, of the ring and of the little finger, according to the- i c™. ova-t-H mil a firm of the metatarsal bones. (a) Above cited, pi. iii. iv. v.FROM THE CARPAL BONES. 965 like manner; the cut between the bones being first made, and then a lon- gitudinal cut along the ulnar side of the fifth metacarpal, both these con- nected by a transverse cut on the back of the hand nearer or farther from the carpus, the soft parts dissected back, the joint divided and the volar flap made (2). (1) von Walther (a) proceeds in the same way in extirpation of the middle and ring- nger, together with removal of the hind part of the metacarpal bone of the forefinger. Astley Cooper (b) also operated successfully in the same way. • ti • Riadore’ i Guthrie, von Graefe, von Walther, and Jaeger have removed in tins manner the last two, and Astley Cooper the outer three and the first metacar- i5 e ?1>e "i1”1 t e t lum^’ so that the forefinger alone remained, and served as a very W,c h°0k' LARR^ a?d RiaI)°RE removed the second, third, and fourth metacarpal fifth ’rSerV1inf tke thumb; and Tyrrell took away successfully the fourth and second wT1^0116! Wlt ‘ ^ Plslh°rmand unciform bones, and the half of the first, hand the fi t llr(i metacai'Pal bones. Benaben (c) extirpated, instead of the whole and cm off thp !1 serand “etacarpal bones, the scaphoid, great, and trapezial bones, finders 6 UPP6! palt of tlle 11111,(1 metacarpal bone, preserving the outer three ?n exafticulation of the four metacarpal hones, but preserving the thumb, a double-edged knife is passed in, whilst the hand is supine, on the ulnar side, at the junction of the metacarpal bone of the little finger, thrust between the other metacarpal bones and the soft parts of the palm to the junction of the metacarpal bone of the forefinger, where it is a Ann °Uf’ W" St u16 thumb is abducted- By cutting obliquely outwards a Hap is formed; then a semicircular cut is made on the back of the hand faepnfhtbhe fkin, “'I ^ndonS’ and the J°ints opened on the palmar sur- -nd £ flf lymg l"° ^the over *■» Tkoccon (e) makes first the cut on the back of the hand, cuts through whikt'th beSinning on the radial or ulnar side, and forms a palmar flap, Iwmvards “ Camed mt° th® °Pened Joint aild drawn forwards and it h vprJh,!idlSefSe is confined t0 merely one or other metacarpal or metatarsal bone iiSSltnTfZt aw°tf nLg- 1° BlANDItN VI t0 remove that alone, and f ... • , others , with which opinion Jaeger also agrees. table and held 'hr drst metacarPal bone, the hand is placed on its ulnar edge upon a the other the fl5 fi y by a“ assistant’ "ho g™sps on the one side the thumb, and on cutfour& The operator makes, along the muscles of the thenar em ^ finger-otnt of fherefi^eadtht '°ng’,W!Uch mas‘ exteud a little beyond the carpal asunder8 6 * matacarPal bone. The edges of the wound are drawn carpal bone to the^demost°US ***** Which couuect the meta‘ Mtremovii^th'efecond^mctanrmU6 method ls the same, with but little variation. In St to the rest, the part of the inncr'trnn W0Undl.ng the radlal artery is unavoidable. As ri'to the phalanx must be left the • . aiisverse| ligament of the metacarpus, corresponding this is half done and the bone half* be.°P|ened from behind forwards, and when none, ana the bone half dislocated, the kn fo must, be lifted „n hefn™ 'ofaxiH°Upn352Rr Chlrnrgie un<l Augenheilkunde, ip.(423LeCtUrPS On SurRery> by Tyrke.-l, vol. ii. g.J<0 Revue Medicale. 1825 : vol i r> Ifdiw Jaeoek- above cited,p- .. t J Mainoault, above cited, pi. ii.—Chirurg. Kupfertaf., pi. lxxiii.—Genboui, ; in Revue Mc- dioale. 1827 ; vol. ii. p. 143. (e) Nouvelle Methode pour 1’Amputation du 1 oignet, dans son Articulation carpo-metacar- pienno. llourg, 1826. Cf) Gazette Medicale de Paris, vol. ii. p. 152- I Oil 1*966 OF EXARTICULATION OF THE FINGERS. head, of the metacarpal bone, for the purpose of cutting through the anterior ligamen-.B from above, so that it remains attached to the phalanx, together with the transvers' i® metacarpal ligament with which it is connected. In extirpating the first metatarsal bone, the foot must be so placed as to rest on itr* ■ outer edge ; the operator then thrusts a long narrow bistoury on the inner side of theta m. extensor longus pollicis, so that its point may come out at the inside of the tendon otm| the m. flexor pollicis, and then cuts out a flap, the base of which corresponds to the hinoi joint of the metatarsal bone, and its tip to the front joint of that bone; the rest of the.! operation is performed as on the metacarpus. X.—OF EXARTICULATION OF THE FINGERS, AT THEIR JUNCTION^ WITH THE METACARPAL BONES, AND AT THEIR OWN JOINTS. (Exarticulatio Digitorum Manus, Lat.; Ablosung der Fingerglieder aus ihrer Verbindum j mil den Mittelhandknochen, und miter sich, Germ.; Disarticulation des Doigts, Fr.) 2821. All that has been said in regard to exarticulation of the toesj from the metatarsal bones, applies to amputation of the fingers at their junction with the metacarpus. In exarticulation of the middle and ring-fingers, Dupuytren (a) cuts off the head o the metacarpal bone obliquely with a saw. In younger persons, in whom ossification J is incomplete, the head of the bone may, according to Lisfranc, be cut off with i knife. . i Barthet.f.my (b) thinks that inflammation, gangrene, and suppuration occur after exarticulation of the fingers from the metacarpal bones, in consequence of the strangu-t lation of the underlying cellular tissue by the palmar aponeurosis, and therefore proposes - after extirpating the finger, to separate the processes of the aponeurosis, which is easily« done; and by which, whilst the tension of the aponeurosis is got rid of, these bae symptoms are more certainly prevented. 2822. In exarticulation of the joints of the fingers from each other, if, the state of the parts permit, the following is the best mode of proceed- ingAn assistant draws out the diseased finger from the healthy fingers, held in a state of pronation, and holds them firmly. The operator, with his left thumb and finger, grasps the diseased joint and bends it, whilst with the other hand he carries a straight narrow bistoury, holding it as in making a longitudinal cut, a line below the projection which is formed by the head of the upper phalanx, in a horizontal direction from the left to _ ■ . • i 1 • i l 1 _ * . X 11 ^ L « 14.. 1 I « rvn n t C O I1CCIU VAX bliv ^ i w. j — — the right side, with a stroke into the joint. The lateral ligaments are then divided, the diseased phalanx pressed much downwards, the blade ol the knife carried to the palmar surface, forwards, and close to the bone, where by cutting obliquely a flap is formed. If two flaps have to be formed, a semilunar cut is to be made on the dorsal surface of the joint, the skin drawn back, the joint cut into, an the lower flap formed as in the former case. This mode of proceeding however, unsatisfactory, because the upper flap is very thin, its dissection painful, and after the cure the scar is in the middle, and thus most exposed to external violence. Less suitable is Lisfuanc’s (c) method of forming the flap, by thrusting the knife through the palmar surface, cutting into the joint from above downwards, and througa the skin on the dorsal surface. , . For the purpose of producing, by adhesion of the tendon of the flexor muscle, tn mobility ofthe first phalanx, after the removal of the second, Lisfranc (d) prev.oady makes a longitudinal cut of half an inch on the palmar surface, winch wounds the fn) Sabatier, above cited, p. 534 (b) Journal Universel des Sciences Mcdieales. rAmputationdan.Ues ArticulationsdMPhsl^ laSq. 211 in Revue Modicale. 1823; vol i. p. (,'•)’ M- moire sur un Nouveau Precede pour (d) Ibid., above cited, p. 236.967 IMMEDIATE AMPUTATION. tendon, the wound heals by suppuration, and then the extirpation is performed. This practice is objectionable, because thereby inflammation of the sheath of the tendon may be set up; it is also unnecessary, because the tendon unites with the scar (a). . [I take the opportunity, in concluding the subject of amputation through the shaft or in the continuity of bone, and through the joint or in the contiguity of bone, to add Liston s cases to my own for the purpose of making a better average of the recoveries and deaths after the operation for amputation. Of Liston’s cases . . 52 Recoveries . . 45 Deaths . . 7 Of my own cases . 54 „ . . 42 » • *12 106 87 19- Making a per centage of 82.075 recoveries, and 17.925 deaths to the whole number of cases operated upon. IMMEDIATE AMPUTATION. The question of Immediate Amputation has been already discussed (b) in treating of compound fracture, and to this the reader will refer. From the reports of the amputa- tions which I have given, it is proved, as I there stated, that primary amputation is more serious in its effect on the constitution, when performed on the lower than on the upper limbs, and more especially when the thigh is the part of the member subjected to that operation. If, however, a much-injured thigh be not at once removed, the patient almost invariably has a fearful struggle with irritative or with hectic fever, if he escape the former, but more commonly he has to pass through both, and dies in consequence Of his powers being completely worn out. The Surgeon is therefore placed in a most difficult.situation in determining whether he shall amputate the thigh, or through it at once. I he danger to the patient is great if the operation be performed, as my reports prove; the danger is as great and the patient’s sufferings severe, protracted, and with- out good result, if the operation be not performed, as I have witnessed again and again. On the whole, I am inclined to believe that primary amputation of or through the thio-h is o be preferred. But with regard to the leg, the danger is very much less, and in the several parts of the upper limbs, comparatively trivial, and, therefore, according to my experience, amputation in these cases should not be deferred. ,JoH.^ Hijnteii indeed thought differently, and preferred secondary amputation incase ot accidents : and his opinion is too important to be passed by unnoticed. He says (cj : a man gets a very bad compound fracture in the leg, or has his leg taken off, either for °r m c°nseT,e'lce of any other accident, he stands a much worse chance of Zn! y, r ?,"e wh,” bas bee“ accustomed to a local disease ; even the man with the compound fracture will do much better, if his leg is not taken off till the first symptoms wiVnoUm^eatfrf We T7 be. ccrtai,n that tbe symptoms arising from the amputation will not be nearly so great as those that arise at first from the fracture, or would have healtt u 1,mme< late amPOtation. * * * For, first, I do not look upon full health as the best condition to resist disease; disease is a state of body which requires h^m , Her th bro?ksdisease ill, and full health is often above par ; persons in full health are too often at the full stretch of action, and cannot bear an ucreaseIsnecial ! S,r„r,ml; s*as 1 h,7 bef“oter,cd-u is * ss tion, and till it be in some degree accustomed to local disease it is less able in h,,.,,. constitution Ins but nno * er\ • . . * 01 you amputate immediately, the •he '"uch b"“» wl.™ V’ hhlc hectares (e). which 1 regret my limits have not I would reemTimrn 1 t',USe °r '’ but 'v’ llch arc of such deep interest and importance that would recommend them for careful perusal, and specially to Army and Navy Sur- («) On Inflammation, Sec. (rf) Lectures. (e) Lectures on Amputation, and on the nature progress, and terminations of the Injuries for which it is required ; in Lancet. 1840-41 ; vol. i. and ii (?) Memoires sur de non relies Methodes pour AmpntatUm dans lea Articulations du in Kev,rw , ,Mctfarp<' nvcc los Phalanges; in lteroe Med'cale. 1813; vol. i. p. “ ’ W Vol. i. p. 518-23, par. 590, note.OP EXCISION 968 geons, as they are more particularly concerned with the cases which form the principal.; subject of his consideration, observes :—“ That the injuries of civil life, and the ampu- tations for them, especially those performed in the primary period, are followed by more unfavourable results than equally grave injuries occurring in the field. If we reflect for a moment upon the mode in which the two classes of injuries are inflicted, I think an ade-r quate reason will suggest itself. A man employed in some agricultural or manufactur- ing occupation, if he becomes the subject of a grave injury, it must be under circum-i ;: stances for which his mind is totally unprepared, under circumstances the most calcu-ni lated to cause terror and a great shock, mental and physical. * * * In military life, ;.! the injuries inflicted are under very different circumstances ; it is true, men but the mo- • ment before with sound limbs and in full health, fall with bones crushed and broken,: ; with limbs torn from their bodies. But every man goes into action knowing his liability to such occurrences ; he sees his comrades fall on every side; many he sees bear it almost a gaily—the majority with good courage ; he has known hundreds to whom the same lot ‘ has fallen, recover, and either return to their duty or pass the rest of their lives, not un- happily with a pension. He is excited at the moment; the onward rush, the shouts of the victors and the vanquished mingling with the roar of artillery, the flashing peals of musketry, all tend to make him reckless of any feeling but one of wild excitement or enthusiasm. * * * The immediate shock of the injury is often, therefore, trifling d in some of the worst injuries.” (pp. 850, 51, vol. ii.)] Fifth Section.—OF EXCISION OF THE JOINTS (a). (Excisio Articulorum, Lat.; Ausrottung der Gelenktheile der Knochen, Germ.; Resection des Extremites Articulaires des Os, Fr.) White, Charles, Cases in Surgery, &c., p. 1. London, 1770. 8vo. Sabatier, Seances Publiques de l’Academie de Chirurgie, p. 73. Paris, 1799. Me'moires de l’lnstitut National, vol. v. p. 366. 1805. Park, H., An Account of a New Method of treating Diseases of the Joints of the Knee and Elbow. London, 1733. 8vo. Moreau, Observations pratiques relatives a la Resection des Articulations affectees s de Carie. (Diss. Inaug.) Paris, an xi. (1803.) Park, H., and Moreau, Cases of the Excision of Carious Joints; with Observations I by J. Jeffray. Glasgow, 1806. Chaussier ; in Magasin Encyclope'dique, cinquieme anne'e. Wachter, Dissert, de Articulis exstirpandis, inprimis de Genu exstirpato. Groning., 1810. Roux, De la Resection ou de Retranchement de portions d’Os Malades, soit dans lcs > Articulations, soit hors des Articulations. Paris, 1812. Syjie, James, On Excision of Joints ; in Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal, vol. xxxi. p. 256. 1829. , A Treatise on the Excision of Diseased Joints. Edinburgh, 1831. Svo. Crampton, Philip, On the Excision of CariouAJoints; in Dublin Hospital Reports, vol. iv. p. 185. 1827. Jaeger, M., Article Dccapitatio; in Rust’s Ilandbuch der Chirurgie, vol. v. p.559. , Operatio Resectionis conspectu chronologico adumbrata. Erlang., 1832. Meyer, G., Ueber Resection und Decapitation. Erlangen, 1829. 2823. Although Pa ulus vEgineta and Heister had previously pointed to the extirpation of diseased joints, yet was it only first per- formed by Filicin of Liverpool, on the knee-joint, in 1762, and the re- moval of the head of the shoulder-bone was undertaken by Vigaroux, David and C. White (1), about the same time. The successful result which AViiite, and afterwards Bent (b) and Orred (c), had of this (a) I have here slightly deviated from Chelios, and Amputation, and for the same reasons.— distinguishing Excision from Resection, and pla- J. F. S. . _ cing them in two distinct sections ; to which they (6) Philosophical Transactions, vol. 'I1Y- r seem to me as fully entitled as Exarticulation 3.>3. 1..4. (e) Same, vol. Ixix. p. 6. 1719.OF JOINTS. 969 operation led to its further extension to other joints. Park applied it to the knee- and proposed it for the elbow-joint. Moreau, father and son, peiformed it on the latter, and at the ankle- and wrist-joint; White, and afterwards Mulder (2), proposed it for the head of the thigh-bone; von Graefe (a) undertook it at the jaw-joint, and Davie (b) on the collar- bone. It was subjected to the closest examination by Sabatier, Percy (e) Roux, Moreau the son, Larrey (d), and Guthrie (e), and much valuable experience in reference to it has been published. But the many and favourable results obtained by the English and German Surgeons, J-EXTpRj and Jaeger, have contributed to extend the employment ot this practice and by their successful issue have contradicted many of the objections to it. J H™iVWuITE (/) performed this operation in the year 1769. It had been previously j later period?^* DAVID althouSh their operations were only published at l , HiSETav?wLAlIERMA1?D0ISt('7')’ K°HLER (k)’ CnAUSSIER (0, and more recently ; Heine have perfoimed experiments on animals which have supported the proposition. 2824. In regard to the fitness of this operation, and in comparing it r followinS have been specially stated as objections ; E the ; Performance, especially on large ginglymoid joints, f f/7 Vl0^ent wflammation and wasting suppuration, the tedious- of thf h CUTe\^J’ PartlCukr]y’ that after tlie removal of joint-ends aLlo.wei: exutremities in consequence of the shortening Lr wor^e than h % vcm*ms’ * « only retained in a condition se than the use of an artificial limb after amputation, which is of^L r , -aTr0Ui?' ^ccordinff tothe cases as yet published, many experLLe JeCT 10nS T ^ ^ “P0*""*, and are contradicted by perience. It must, however, be admitted that the removal of the ends S'dana°neSl 1S more difficult; than amputation or exarticulation, yet the I and°thedUnngrand ^ the °peration is not greater than in amputation, band the symptoms are not usually severe; the cure, indeed is more andwTthbtLT0mPa,ued Wi-th, feiW6r ^conveniences, (Syme, Jaeger,) I vpr^ f \h Preservation of the limb the patient finds it generally in a Iex?emVU g1110"- As regards the removal of the joint? of the^pper Hand le ? ’ 686 Circumstances are no doubt of the greatest importance eitalnMH0 ito Preference *° amputation, a/th ! rm’Tn7lth confined “Otion, is not to be compared lauencM nf ilfCial supP,y a(ter. amputation, and experience of the conse- rLourab](f r?uhsmOVTh? onVT^ °f U,PPer Hmbs Points to the most under peculiar v favo, • many instances> incomplete; so that only til S3 C,rCUmSlanCeS Sh0Uld ll'e join,5: l<Htat.BW2]ht Sber daS Klinisch-chirurgi,ch In- tiplE&7Ueture' on s"r^- G I P'°"e I'istorique de M. Sabatikk. I l7i.Mcm°lres de Chirurgie Militaire, vol. ii. felA'”e ci‘ed, p. 470, p. 521. 769? PhllosoPhlcal Transactions, vol. lix. p. 39. , (y) David Gils), Dissert, sur l’lnutilite de lAmputation (les Membres dans ia plupart des Maladies de la contiguite des Os. Paris, an xi y‘) Above cited. (.;) Journal de Mcdecine, Chirurgie, et Pliar macie, vol. lxvi. p. 200. (A) Experimenta circa Regenerationem Ossium XJ: l4; 1". M;> p Getting., 1786. (i) Above cited.970 OF EXCISION (c) Above cited, p. 141. (c) Above cited. These statements are founded on the cases hitherto published. Of Jaeger’s collec v tion of fifty-three cases of excision at the shoulder-joint but two had an unfavourabl ifj result; of thirty-four at the elbow only four; and in three at the wrist all were sue: - cessful. In regard to excision at the wrist it is remarkable that Syme (a), otherwise s»m warm an advocate for the operation, gives a most unfavourable opinion, that it is very; difficult to perform, that relapses easily recur, and that it leaves a stiff and unusable, limb. He, however, admits that these objections are supported only by theory, and tba experience might, perhaps, show them to be of less importance. Of thirteen excision , of the knee-joint, upon careful observation six were perfectly successful, three imper- fectly so, in reference to the capability of using the limb, and three were fatal; a pro ' portion decidedly less favourable than in amputation, but not so bad that excision of tht knee-joint should be unconditionally rejected. Upon this point Syme (6) observes- that excision must always be considered more dangerous than amputation when tht patient is very weak or has been wasted by previous disease; but if he possess mode : rate powers, it is not to be supposed either from general circumstances or from thr results of experience that excision is attended with greater danger than the removal o the limb. It must, however, be mentioned that a larger number of cases would give w a more decided opportunity of comparing excision of the knee-joint with amputation In five cases of excision at the ankle-joint the result was successful, and in twenty-fom cases where it was performed for compound dislocation but one patient died. Syme (c) i however, says, that although excision of the ankle-joint has not the objections to it tha that of the wrist has, it cannot be extolled as of any great use. It affords, indeed, a sup: port for the body, and it may be questionable in how far the foot, after the excision, i: better than an artificial apparatus. Moreau’s experience also shows that anchi/losu- generally occurs after the operation; and although, as he observes, the other joint!: of the foot become more movable, so as in some measure to make amends for this stiffness, there can still be no doubt that the foot loses much of its elasticity (d). I [Upon the excision of joints Crampton (e) observes:—“ It is impossible not to b< struck by the fact, that the constitutional disturbance succeeding to the excision of evei so large an articulation as the knee-joint, bore no comparison in kind or in degree, witM that which experience has proved to be the invariable attendant upon simple pene- trating wounds of a joint, when union is not effected by the first intention. This differenct in the symptoms may, I think, be referred to that well-known principle of the animat economy, which disposes the system generally to suffer in proportion as the injured^ part is possessed of a higher or lower degree of sensibility, and as the injury is more 01 less difficult of cure by the proper forces of the constitution. Now, although it be true that when in an healthy state the parts which enter into the composition of a joint are possessed of but a low degree of sensibility, still it is well known that when suffering under disease there are no parts in which inflammation is attended with more exquiate pain or in which the actions which tend to recovery are more slowly or imperfects performed. It is not surprising, therefore, that a penetrating wound of a large artrt dilation should be succeeded by a train of the most painful and dangerous symptoms. By the total excision of the joint, however, all those parts, which when diseased; in- fluence the constitution so unfavourably are removed from the system, and the injur? is resolved into a case of clean incised wound, with a divided but not fractured » 1 diseased bone at the bottom of it.” (pp. 207, 208.)] 2825. All the cases in which excision of the ends of bones is to be pre- ferred to amputation of the limb, may be thus considered :— I a Caries and necrosis of the joint-ends of tubular bones, which does* not spread further. ,, Crushing of one or several joint-ends, without further considers j splintering of the bone towards its body, without injury of the principal artery and nerves, and without great destruction of the soft parts. y When, under like circumstances, a musket-ball remains sticking 1 1 the spongy structure of a joint-end, and cannot be withdrawn. 7|l g When, in compound dislocation, a joint-end protrudes from the Tl parts, and cannot be replaced. (>f) Jaeokr, WurdiRnng <tcr liesecti 'nen ; in Rust's Ilandboch der Chirurgic, above cited. (a) Above cited, p. 119. (/p Above cited, p. 131.OF JOINTS. 971 s Degeneration of the whole joint, from spina ventosci or osteosteatoma, when the boundary of the joint is not decided. Anchylosis vera, when the limb is thereby rendered useless, or very considerably restricted. J v Old dislocations, with impossibility of using the limb. • Jh€'condition of the patient’s powers deserves particular attention in considering the indications for excision. Much sunken condition of the patient is always to be hefd as a contraindication, and amputation is here preferable, as with the removal of the source of the casting suppuration, a relatively increased quantity of blood remains in the body upon which depends the frequently and so quickly favourable change in the general’ Se powe^inL^ary^11118' “ eXCisi°n’ esPecia% of ^ knee-joint, a greater call state of the soft parts may contraindicate excision, if they be largely destroyed or changed by disease. According to Moreau, the degeneration of the soft parts depending alone on disease in the joint-end, should by no no means forbid the operatIon • Couf fp ZEZ f 1 —dcg",e of des,ruc,i” °f ^^ 2826. The operation of decapitation includes the following acts-—The cut through the shin and muscles, and the exposure of the joint-ends - the bT’ and tk* Wli0n °fthe W™nd h Proper dressing.’ 8-7. When the patient has been properly placed and held by assistants a competent person must be intrusted with the compression of the min’ c,pal artery which is preferable to the tourniquet, L thTweedin/is Sn g neral tiifling and by apphcatton of the tourniquet the great venous bleeding is rendered more serious. 1 B ous I,e direction and extent of the cut depend on the condition of the joint and soft parts. A sufficient, but not very large cut must be made r»h„m,S n f'°m the si"1PlKt “> ‘ha most complicated fcm in about the follow,ng scale. First, the simple longitudinal cut scW, thl+ °r I”I 0r ++ cut, third, the |/ cut; fourth, the T -^■,°r cut; Ji/li', the [_ or I. shaped cut; sixth, the | I cut; or elliptical cuit ” 3 °U‘! ‘he kHI CM- and ninth, the <3 rAs z »Jr? “and the ligaments lifted un with a 7, , Cut thr°ugh the skin, W. shortened, the pain diminished TJ X’ ",e ,vh')]e °P™ion 'After the spoutinw havt’hiu • I S ’T0” p0sitive direction, '•plate of lead or a°stnW leSf be\ *!“■• a or horn spatula, a 'toft parts and the bone tf 'G1 “! °ft lnen.shouid be passed between the ^gesVlhel nd.tnL7TPa™ E ^"‘her, and then the or with wbone8m„stClrcuT™^hP:lrh6M peri°s‘mm b“" divided, the • r°U"h 'Vlth a. moderate-sized saw, or if it be not very ninnprs Hll/] mrntnr . . - V Strong and hard with mJY a. ,,luueiate-sized saw, or if it be not vei |ittie=saw, the 00 Ku<T-s IIandbqch dcr Gkirur^le, above cited, p. 582.OF EXCISION 972 (n) Jaeokb, above cited, p. 584. tied, the thickened ligaments and capsule of the joint, together with al superfluous skin, removed, the whole wound cleared of blood, and caret! fully examined both with the finger and the eye to ascertain whether an; v tiling hurtful remains, that it may be removed. In determining the boundary of the diseased bone, not merely must the extent oci the caries be considered, but also the extent to which it has been separated from the peri-L osteum, for if that part be left, caries or necrosis is quickly set up on it. In such case-ii the cut must, therefore, be extended into the firmly-attached periosteum, and the bon< imist be sawn through there. If the caries run into the spongy end of the bone, a plate o u bone of corresponding depth to the caries must be sawn off, in which case the applicant | of the white hot cautery-iron, according to Moreau, generally increases the necrosis, anty delays the cure (Jaeger.) If the bone be diseased more extensively than was sup;-j] posed, amputation is generally required; however, in regard to this, everything dependi on whether a large piece of bone can be removed from each or from only one of the bones of a joint, as well also as on the condition of the joint; thus, for instance, at the shoulder, five or five and a half inches of the upper-arm-bone have been successfully re Of the numerous instruments which have been recommended for removing the endfi; of boues (a), the most convenient and applicable for all cases are, the common large anca small bow saw, the knife saw, Hey’s saw of different sizes, Jeffray s, (Aitken s ) B. Heine’s chain saw, the bone-shears and nippers, variously-formed chisels, which.: although they jar both the bone and the neighbouring joint and increase the pain;.) are often indispensable. Sometimes it may be convenient to divide the bone partiaUyHl with the saw, and then to use the nippers, with which the piece of bone can be> CaThe \VickIinK of the blood from the wound is commonly stopped by exposure to the air, or with cold water ; but if it come from a spongy and thickened tissue, this must be* removed and cold water or some other styptic must be applied. Bleeding from a bone,., when it’cannot be checked by pressure with a sponge dipped in cold water ''equirei pressure with German tinder, with lint dipped in spirit of wine, or with little balls o wax. Severe venous bleeding, if it do not ci ase after the removal of the tourniquet, and after repeated inspiration and expiration, requires the application of cold water, or some*, other styptic If the principal trunk of the artery or vein be wounded, which can oidj be doim by awkwardness or carelessness, it must be tied; but, in general, amputation will be necessary. 2829. In applying the dressing, which, according to Jaeger, is best- done after the patient has got to bed, the limb must be laid on a pi Ho' * covered with oiled cloth, the ends of the bones put into proper place, either touching or not, and the edges of the wound brought together with i the interrupted suture. Only when the teguments are so very thin that they would lie cut through by the pressure of the suture-threads, should com presses of lint be applied to support them (Syme.) The most depen^Bj part of the wound must be left open for the escape of he d.schaJB The wound must be covered with lint, the part carefully raised and another oiled cloth with Scultetus’s bandage, compresses, and lint, la upon the pillow, the limb placed on it in the position most proper lor its • future use, the several parts of the dressing applied, and, if necessary, j secured with a suitable splint. Jaeger’s practice, however, of surround- ing the limb with compresses dipped in cold water and simply ]au1 on pillow till suppuration come on, seems to be best, as at this time , tetus’s bandage can never be applied so firmly as to give hope of keep ing the r putting the limb in proper position, to swathe it in a long 4^ support^better than splints, or stiff pieces of tin or paste- board, is manifestly incorrect , 2830. The after-treatment must be conducted according to the usuiuOF JOINTS. 973 00 Jaeqeh, above cited, p. 394. rules for wounds and amputations. The traumatic reaction is, according to the concurrent testimony of most observers, not great, and requires, at first, besides keeping the patient quiet, strict diet, mucilaginous drinks, and the use of cold applications. If there be little reaction and a cold ccde- matous state of the parts, warm aromatic fomentations should be em- ployed, and a more nourishing and exciting diet. When suppuration begins the cold applications must be given up, and the wound dressed with lint and sticking plaster and bound up with Scultetus’s bandage to check any unnecessary movement of the arm. On the fifth day those stitches which are most stretched must be removed, and the others according to circumstances from the sixth to the ninth day. When the fever sub- sides, more nourishment must be allowed, and the patient, usually about the eighth day, will have returned to his ordinary diet and drink. The scarring, in general, goes on quickly, and only now and then does the wound remain open longer (a). 2831. Among the untoward circumstances which may occur during the after-treatment the following may be specially noticed, after-bleeding, ms cesses^ fistulous passages, and ulceration of the scar. If after-bleeding come on soon after the operation, the dressing must be removed and the bleeding vessels tied. If there be trickling from the ■whole wound, cold applications and styptics must be used. During sup- puration if large bleeding come on, amputation will be necessary, as tying result1"6^ artenal trunk does away with the ]east hope of a favourable Abscesses which are formed by extension of the inflammation, or by the burrowing of the discharge into the neighbourhood of the operation, re- quire poultices and to be opened with the knife. Fistulous passages depend either on the continued secretion of synovia trom a stili remaining portion of the joint-surface, or on sluggish granula- i 1S ° 116 tlnckened callous tissue, or on some carious part remain- ing or on superficial necrosis of the edges of the bone, and require the continued use of aromatic applications” mtil, in the latter c2e. smdl splinters of bone be thrown off. afffffjj? ^decapitation, according to Jaeger, rarely or never h^after I ary , A"y remainin& carious Part, if it do not iIpniT' ,reatmen'’ requires a ^ “Ci5i0"’ ”if 2832. The mode of dressing the sawn-offends of the bone requires oar fular attention in the after-treatment. In the upper exZ ! fl formation of callus should never be the object. On the contrary ^how verm the lower limbs, and specially at ti knee-joint eve ” S m * directed towards its production, and attention'paid to the motions it ^Trm that State 0f,re3t in if is to rema" K no he bones affords tft ,fibr°us llsfue which grows and connects the ends of f the lUft! SUfCle!U fir?“ess- If “0 firm union take place, an<l not fixabie by a[ 974 ] I.—OF EXCISION AT THE SHOULDER-JOINT. (.Excisio Scapulo-humeralis, Lat.; Ausrottung im Schultergelenke, Germ.; Resection Scapulo-h umerale, Fr.) 2833. The most important proceeding in excision of the head of the- upper-arm-bnne is to form an upper flap, as in La Faye’s exarticulation,. (par. 2810.) to divide the connexions of the joint, to lift out the head of: the arm-bone, and whilst a wooden spatula is passed beneath it for the pro- tection of the soft parts, to saw it off. When the bleeding vessels have, been tied, the sawn surface of the bone must be brought near the lower: edge of the glenoid cavity, the flap laid down and fixed with sutures- and strips of plaster, covered with lint and compresses, and the arm. kept in proper position, by means of such bandages as Desault has de- scribed for fractured collar-bone. The after-treatment must be con- ducted in the same way as that of amputation, and bagging of pus must: be especially prevented. C. White, Orred and others, operated with a longitudinal cut from the socket of the: shoulder-joint down to the insertion of the m. deltoides, and then having divided the tendon of the longhead of the m. biceps, lifted out the head of the bone and sawed if off. This method seems most preferable in all cases where only fragments of the crushed head are to be removed. In chronic affections of the joint it must be presumed 1 that dislocation of the head of the bone is easy under particular circumstances, that t the ligaments are not very thick, and the like. Bent formed a flap from the outside of the joint by one vertical and two horizontal 1 cuts, running outwards from it. Sabatier made a V flap from the deltoid muscle. Moreau thrusts in a scalpel, at the most prominent part of the coracoid process, to the bone, and cuts the skin and deltoid muscle directly downwards to the length of three inches; next makes another cut parallel to it, beginning from the back part of the: lower edge of the acromion, then connects both with a transverse cut across the acromion,. separates the flap and turns it down. The tendons and capsular ligament are now divided, the head of the bone lifted out, a long pad introduced between it and the soft t parts, and then the head is sawn off. If the caries affect the glenoid cavity and the acromion, Moreau lengthens the front cut over the outer end of the collar-bone and l the hind one to the spine of the blade-bone; separates this new flap, removes the carious part with the bone-shears or the chisel, and then fixes the upper to the under flap. Especial care must be taken that as much as possible of the capsular ligament should be cut off to prevent inflammation and profuse suppuration. 1 Syme makes a vertical cut from the acromion through the middle of the deltoid muscle, nearly to its attachment, then a shorter one from the lower edge of the former upwards and backwards, so that the outer part of the muscle is cut through After tins flap has been dissected up, the joint comes in sight, and when the capsular ligament, it existing, has been divided, the Surgeon passes his finger around the head of the bone, so that he may feel the attachments of the in. supra-spinatus, infraspinatus, and subsca- pularis, which he easily cuts through by turning the knife first towards one and then to the other side. The movements of the arm should be prevented, to guard against irritation and displacement, and the latter by putting a pad in the armpit 2834. After this operation the motion of the arm may remain under various circumstances:—-first, the upper end of the remaining part of the upper-arm-bone may be drawn back to the glenoid cavity; second, it may be drawn from the outer edge of the blade-bone to the trunk; or, third, separated from it, may remain isolated in the soft parts. In the first case, a new perfectly free joint takes the place of the old one; in the second, an imperfect joint is formed without much motion ; and in the third, the lever of the arm remains without any fulcrum, which, however, does not offer any obstacle to the direction and freedom of the movements pre- served (a). 31.—Textor, Ueber das Absligen des oberen Endes des Humerus; “ (a) Morf.ao, above cited, p Neue Chiron, vol. I. part iii.[ 975 ] II—OF EXCISION OP THE ELBOW-JOINT. (Excisio Humero-cubitalis, Lat.; Ausrottung im Ellenbogengelenke, Germ. • Eesection Humero-cubitale, Pr.) 2835. Moreau’s (a) method of sawing off the elbow-joint is as follows : The patient lies on a table covered with a mattress, upon his bellv so that the ailing arm may be put at a right angle with the trunk, at the edge of the table, in the strongest light, and the hind part of the half-bent elbow may be opposite to the operator. One assistant holds the upper and another the lower end of the limb, and the brachial artery is compressed with a tourniquet in the upper third of its course. A cut of three inches length is now made, with a single-edged scalpel, on each side of the lower eni of the upper-arm, to the pit of the condyle, and both are connected by cutting through the skin and tendon of the m. triceps; the flap is now dissected upwards from the bone and held by an assistant. The fibres of the m. brachialis mtemus are next separated on the inner and outer side th^sof^nnrfT’ &T an ivory spatula-shaped retractor passed between it and the soft paits. The elbow is held fast with the left hand, and that part of the upper-arm-bone to be removed is sawn off with a large saw byPthe right hand The fore-arm is then dropped, the upper end of the sawn- ° pie.Cei°f ^°nehfted Up’ the knife carried in front of it, its connexions separated, and as it is set free, it must be decided how it can be removed without violence. If both ulna and radius, at their connexion with the upper-arm-bone, be deeply affected with caries, the fore-arm must be lifted JSh an \nC1 and a half lono> made on the outer edge of the upper of the radius, and a like one on the hind edge of the ulna The p between the two cuts is now separated downwards, the head of the freed from its connexions, a fold of linen, in place of a retractor smalTsaw inen 'l ^ th® S°ft parts’ and the diseased part cut off with a ,likp 1 ’ iUC1 a way as t0 Preserve the insertion of the m, biceps In Ihe Wnaner I'l6 UPPer 6nd °f the Ulna is laid bare> protruded by raising . , . ™’ dle eanous part sawn off, endeavouring to keep the whole or pa. of the insertion of the m. brachialis internus. 1 R °r -y!ng ,the Vesfe,s and cleansing the wound, the two flaps are lint a°n f int0 P ace and, fixed Wlth five s,ltlires, the wound covered with Wf b“ „, ^„Tpm„w a St,,1MTDS’S bandage- The is «o be laid lateral ligaments for the 'f the ulna is, that if cut through below the attachment ofnf rem/0vin.g.dle whole piece emoval is very difficult. tachmcnt of the in. brachialis internus, its notion is partially^sUoyell "'Xpuytuen reco° CUt ^lrou8h< b}' which sensation and he fibrous sheath in which it is contained and savlng this nerve, by dividing nner condyle, where it is to be held whik? !£'ug ^ nCrVe Wldl. spatula over the • AEoua are of the same opinion Svmf a£ — ^ 2 SaWn off- .Crampton and he inner edge of the olechranon and «ni Pr.esfrv,cs the nerve> which lies close to be made beyond the olechranon towards 7 >C CU,t ,thr0l,1?h if the transverse herefore be felt for and the knife thrust into the WW condyle. The olechranon must lose along the upper surface of the nIp, I J0Int, with its back towards the inside, nen cut transversely with a sawin. i’Ut ? little ncarer the radial side, and >e tough tendinous parts till the 00 Above cited, p. 42. ,, N o r (ft) Sabatier, p. 451.916 OF EXCISION OF THE WRIST-JOINT. (c) Above cited, p. 678. Jaeger, in the absence of fistulous passages, always lays bare the ulnar nerve: hi; I ascertains its position by feeling on the inner condyle, and then carefully makes a cut two jj or two and a half inches long, upon it, of which the middle is upon the condyle; thetij opens the sheath of the nerve, takes hold of and lifts it up with a blunt hook, separates i' :t| from the soft parts, lifts it over the inner condyle, and there has it held fast with a blunt | hook. With the left hand he now grasps the fore-arm, and, by bending it towards the; upper, renders the m. triceps tense, cuts through it with a strong scalpel, a quarter of ana inch above the olechranon from the inner to the outer condyle, and opens the joint, the.-, bending of the arm being still increased, the lateral ligaments and skin upon the con-of dyles are still farther cut through. The further progress of the operation depends otj the extent of the caries ; if but one condyle be affected on its joint surface or on itsts outer side, the longitudinal cut must be continued upwards to the extent of the caries A in caries of the whole cubital process, a longitudinal cut of an inch and a half or two inches length, must be carried from each side to the pit of the condyles, the flap dis- sected back to the part where the bone is to be sawn through, and the operation finished'j according to Moreau’s method. If the cubital process be healthy, the lower longitu-.( dinal cut of from one and a half to two inches must be made from the inside of the olechra-A non and the outer part of the head of the radius. If the upper cut be already made, ii :j must be continued downwards to the requisite extent, and the lower flap dissected fronn:| the ulna. If the radius be carious, a simple cut must be carried over its condyle tc the extent of the caries. • i J After excision of the elbow-joint the radius and ulna always remain separate, al-. though they are near together and held by the soft parts. The hand retains its power and mobility, and the fore-arm its most important motions. Every thing, however,' depends on the circumstance, whether the insertion of the in. biceps to the radius, and of the ni. brachialis interims to the ulna can be preserved. Jaeger s case, however, shows that motion of the fore-arm is possible, when even the insertion of the >«- biceps has been destroyed. [Crampton first performed this operation in Dublin, in February, 1823; but no account of it was published till 1827. Syme gave (a) an account in 1829 of three cases - in which he had performed it.—J. F. S.] III.—EXCISION OF THE WRIST-JOINT. (Excisio Badio-carpalis, Lat.; Ausrottung im Handgelenke, Germ.; Resection du Poignet, Fr.) 2836. For the excision of the lower part of the radius and ulna, first' performed by Orred and Moreau, Roux (h) gives the following direc- tions. Two longitudinal cuts are made, one along the outer edge of the radius and the other along the inner edge of the ulna, as near as possible to its inner edge, to the wrist-joint, without injuring the vessels or nerv«s;- a transverse cut is then made across the palmar and dorsal surfaces ot the arm, avoiding the tendons. The lower end of the radius and ulna arei then laid bare, sawn through, and the diseased carpal bones remo\ et. According to Jaeger (e), in excision of the ulna at the wrist-jouR, the arm must be placed on its radial side, so that its ulnar side be the operator, the hand bent in the opposite direction, the skin made tense with the left thumb and forefinger, and a cut begun upon the stjP. process, and carried up two inches on the outer side of the ulna. , the lower end of this another cut is made, from three-quarters to an in long, through the skin on the dorsal surface of the joint, the flap dissec off and the tendon of the m. cxtetisor carpi ulnaris lifted up with a o hook. The ulna is now laid bare on the upper and under surface, joint cut into above and on the side, whilst the hand is bent ratti^^ the other side. The skin and tendons are then held back w tha hook, and either a small IIey’s saw or a phalangeal saw applied * ^ upper sound part of the bone, which is then sawn through. 1 be („) Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal, vol. xxxi. p. 25t5. 1829. (fc) Above cited, p. W.OF EXCISION OF THE HIP-JOINT. 977 bone is now taken hold of with the forceps, drawn out and rolled down- wards, and its inner connexion with the radius divided. The end of the ulna is then seized with a sharp double hook, drawn forwards, and its con- nexion with the radius at the joint divided. In excision of the radius, the arm is placed on its ulnar side, a cut two inches long is made upon the inside of the lower part of the radius from above downwards to its styloid process, and from the lower angle of this wound a transverse cut, an inch and a half long, upon the dorsal side of the wrist. After the flap of skin has been dissected up, the sheath of the tendons is cut into, the tendons separated on both sides from the radius, and held by a blunt hook. The ligaments are made tense by bending the hand in the opposite direction, cut through from above and on the • side, the radius dislocated, and as much of it sawn off with the phalaneea saw as had been sawn off the idna. After cleansing the wound the fore-arm and hand are laid upon a pillow, - the ends of the bones brought together, the longitudinal and transverse cuts ‘ amted 'Vltb «utures and the angles of both wounds left open. The joint j 1S surrounded with oiled cloth and compresses dipped in cold water applied • when suppuration has set in Scultetus’s bandage is to be put on. J™™ make,s a longitudinal cut on the ulnar side of the wrist, draws the edges of he rir„'r,l4l",te ,the abducts the hand, isolates the eld of , ®and P' otrudes it as far as possible outwards, separates it from the radius passes Themethod1iaaiHerreenn 6v’ SaT th™ughthe bone above the diseased part, nectin Jthehi r °T ^ Veleeau does not answer the purpose ; it consists in con- aud the flnn tufe !rna C,UtiS v0n ,the.side by a transverse cut on the back of the hand, the bones and in'f dlssect‘:d ba<jk > ln tke soft parts being separated from the front of ne bones, and in a plate of wood or lead being pushed through, upon which the radius [Butt To) th-e conJle*icyns of tbe joint divided one after the other, sawine- it thf Portsmouth, Virginia, U. &., removed a large portion of necrosed ulna wristg In thre^rnomh^th0111' mCheS tbe olechranon= and exarticulating it at the flevinn I . months the man was able to return to his trade as a carpenter, with „ ’ xtension, and rotation of the joint as uninterrupted as ever.] ’ |. . . IV.—OF- EXCISION OF THE HIP-JOINT. Coxa’ Lat-i Amrottung im Hiiftgelenke, Germ.; Resection Coxa-femorale, Fr.) hither^ EZvSl0T\ P U>f }\ead °f the thi9h-b°ne, which in the seven cases hitherto published lias had but one successful result, has been variously l^ven in reference to the direction and nature of the cut. y xJ:lrst:, By a simPle7 longitudinal cut which, beginning an inch or two boce t ,e great trochanter descend, three inched belo» it on the outer ’•ansl al I l? • • Aftf I''0 tlivisi0“ °f tendons, the opening the , f aiH| division of the round ligament, the head of the ,f, i,.l. 7.. |Ld^ted ^ turning the knee inwards, and the? sawnoff leScat cut?nS,?fficTIN; a”d others). Roux hold/a SZle 1 nd suitable oof 7 bare ProPer]y the head of the thigh-bone iIppeniieim f&WoMlS868 °f- deitr0yed hSaments ail(i gun-shot wounds. 4i the most simnle is 1 Jl * -lm*P 6 CUt ,7 tlie best method, inasmuch as it 1 Semnd » 1/ ’ / least. mjurious and heals most readily. f f formation of a flap, either as „. A U shaped flap on (he ' th? R v°; 1 niladelphm Journal, vol. i. p. 117 tsofi ... „ . ,u> VOL. ii •P‘i7. lBJo. (6) Hamburger Zeitschrift, vol. i. part h. 3 R978 OF EXCISION from four and a half, to five and a half inches long, from the upper end o: which a second cut of four inches is carried backwards and downwards The triangular flap thus formed is dissected up, the insertion of the muscles at the upper and fore part of the trochanter cut through, the capsular ligament, and every spouting vessel tied, the head of the thigh-bone dis- located by turning the knee inwards, the round ligament cut through, aa spatula passed under the neck of the thigh-bone, and that or the great) trochanter sawn through with a small bow- or knife-saw. If the upper! edge of the hip-socket be carious, it may be removed with Hey’s saw, andc the socket itself touched with the actual cautery, y, A semilunar flap, according to Velpeau, in which the cut is carried from the front uppert spine of the ilium to the ischial tuberosity, and a semilunar flap with its - convexity downwards, is dissected up, and the back of the joint opened. Hewson’s method of making a semilunar flap above the trochanter, and turning it downwards, is inefficient. And like it is Jaegeb’s semicir- cular cut carried round the great trochanter with its convexity upwards. Third. By Textor’s oval cut; he makes a cut beginning two inches : above the great trochanter, carries it obliquely backwards and outwards,- and ends it about an inch before the little trochanter. To this first cut; follows a second, which, beginning on the front of the thigh opposite the’ point where the former ended, is carried obliquely outwards and upwards,-,’ and meets with it at a rather acute angle above the great trochanter. T hisi- second cut at first divides only the skin, but afterwards is continued down:; to the neck of the thigh-bone. The soft parts are then separated from • the great trochanter, the capsular ligament cut into with a strong scalpel I from within outwards, following always the edge of the hip-socket, over half its extent, down to the head of the thigh-bone, the knee being then bent inwards, the round ligament is divided with the scalpel, the head of I the bone dislocated, fixed with the hand, and a knife carried round the part \ where the bone is to be divided, so that the track of the saw may be made <J easy and then the bone cut through with the osteotome, or with a small!* bow- or knife-saw. When the operation has been finished, the vessels tied, and the wound j cleansed, some sutures are put in at the upper part, and supported with«J straps of plaster, but the lower end is left open with a strip of linen in it, to favour the escape of the discharge. The wound is covered with lin • and compresses, which are kept together with a cloth passed around. 1 ,e - feet maybe tied together, or, if circumstances permit, Hagedorn s appa-H ratus may be put on. . Of the seven cases, published, of excision of the neck of the thigh-bone, hut one *J terminated successfully. It is incorrect to include with these, those cases in vine 1 “ head of the thigh-bone had been completely destroyed by caries, or had tx'cn remo necrosed, (Schmalz,) as well as the mere sawing through the neck of the bone m an r losis, (Barton, Rogers.) A case of Ki.uoe’s (a) and one of Ohi.e’s (b) are doubt u • Anthony White (c) cut off the head of the thigh-bone in a boy of fourteen on account of very severe hip disease; four inches of the bone were removed, it or a very useful artificial joint; the patient lived five years, and could use the1,0110 V feedy well; it did not even appear much shortened. Carmichael (rf) Fr,orn , v operation on a young woman for medullary sarcoma of the thigh but she died thi J,1 Oppenheim (c) performed it on account of a crushing of the head and neck of lei b bone and of the great trochanter, by a musket-ball; he sawed off the lower end of tw («-) Waoneh, Article Deenpitatio; in Busch, (c) London Medical Gazette, vol. P- VON Gkakfe, Hufeland, and Rudolphi’s Ency- 1832. , _ . , ._ ; clopaedischei Worterbucb, vol. ix. p. 188. (4 O”™" 8 Zc,tschr,ft’ «>■ (A) Schmidt’s Jahrbuch, vol. li. part i. p. 116. (c) Abo\c cited.979 OF THE HIP-JOINT. fracture close to the little trochanter, enlarged the wound upwards, and after dividing the capsule and round ligament, he removed the three pieces of the head and also the bullet. The patient died eighteen days after. Hewson (a) performed this operation for caries; the bone was sawn off above the little trochanter. The patient died three months after, in consequeuce of the burrowing of a large quantity of pus, which passed by an opening in the hip-socket into the pelvis. Seutin (6), in a gun-shot wound which had split the neck of the thigh-bone to pieces, and injured the soft parts but little, made a cut from the crest of the hip-bone, to three inches above the great trochanter, adducted the limb, dipped into the bottom of the wound, and removed fifteen loose pieces of bone of various size and form; the lower fragment of the bone was lifted out of the wound and sawn off beneath the lowest split portion. The getting out the head of the bone, which was broken immediately in the cavity of the socket, was difficult; including the neck and head, six inches of the bone were removed. The contentive apparatus, and a half-bent posture on a double inclined plane, were employed. The patient died on the ninth day, of gangrene. Textor (c) has operated three times. In the first case, on a child seven and a half years old, on account of fracture of the neck of the thigh-bone, and abscesses following; the head of the bone, and two inches from the great trochanter, above the little trochanter, were removed. In the second case, in a young man of eighteen, for caries of the head of the bone, the patient died on the fourth day. In the third case, in a man of fifty-four years, on account of caries of the great trochanter, and of the neck of the thigh-bone six inches were removed, and the patient died on the fifty-third day. The interesting results after removal of the head of the thigh-bone in brutes, in refer- ence to the regeneration of bone, are given in Heine’s (d) experiments. , [Charles White would seem to have been the proposer of excision of the head of the thigh-bone, although he did not perform the operation, for he observes (e) I have likewise in a dead subject, made an incision on the external side of the hip-joint, and continued it down below the great trochanter, when cutting through the bursal ligament and bringing the knee inwards, the upper head of the os femoris hath been forced out ot its socket, and easily sawn off; and I have no doubt but that this operation might be performed upon a living subject with every prospect of success. The Royal Academy 0 Surgery at Pans proposed for a prize question, whether amputation of the thigh at 1 s articulation with the os innominatum, was ever advisable; but, was 1 under a necessity of performing this operation, or that which I have been describing I should not hesitate a moment which to prefer.” (p. 66.) The first successful excision of the head of the thigh-bone was performed in West- minster Hospital by Anthony White, in April 1822, to which Chelius refers above, trom the slight notice by Beai.e. It has since been fully published by S. Cooper ( f) from notes furnished by White, who has also kindly given me the following more concise account.—j. f. s. 6 “A°hH when nine years old, slipped down stairs and slightly hurt his eft hip. After a few weeks, he was observed to limp in his gait, and complained of stiffness and pain in his groin; and subsequently he lost the power of locomotion, had sthe usual symptoms of disease in the hip-joint, and the head of the thigh-bone became 1 iSaied and 7sted far ba<* on the dorsum ««. He suffered very acutely, and under! US,!a treatment„ of c"PP,ng> blistering, with every other mode of local and ■constitutional treatment for many months, but without benefit, and after a time sun I }l,e J°lnt took place, which was evacuated from the front and upper part of I !,e.*h,Sh- Temporary relief was thus obtained, but during two years a succession f ! T,lar, absce6:ses formed around, and small portions of bone were frequently motn led ! ;hX“g Atffie'end8 and’ m°re especially, from those formed over the es. At the end of the third year he was in the greatest possible state of emaciation “hSXffiTr8 afUte Pa'D’ bUt exhausted b? the previous suffering and y t - ft’resh abscesses hud for °, y g S Wlth, bedridden ulcerations. The formation of >PPrehend!d In ffie rnomb “bs.f.ased and further diseased processes were not g ;; the month ot APnl 11 "’as determined, on consultation with Tra- § {<!) ( Ippvwintrw ■ (a) Oppenhrim, above cited. {!>) Gazette Medicate de 1'aria, vol. i. p 135. )833 (c) Lepoi.d. F., Ueber die Resection des Hiift- ,nL,'i Resection des Hull- ■,olenkes. Wurzburg, l8:t4.-OppF.NimiMtn, S„ L ( motion.. c i» ( f\ n. .. P lv ? \c) vases anove citea. (/) Dictionary of I radical Surgery, p. 272. Edition of] 838. Ueber die Resection des Miiftselenkes. Wur, hum, 1840. d) Oppenhkimer, above cited, p. 51. <■) Cases above cited. 3 r 2980 OF EXCISION OF THE HIP-JOINT. vers, to remove the head of the bone; the circumstances of his health, -with the excep' tion of great emaciation, not forbidding it. Operation.—“ An incision was first made through the integuments, beginning about.4 an inch above the point where the head of the femur was deposited, and then carried down the centre of the bone to a point as far as was considered necessary for sawing through it. The integuments were then separated on each side, making their dissection as close to the bone as possible. The straight saw was then used and the femur divided without difficulty about two inches below the top of the great trochanter and including, the little trochanter. So closely adherent was the upper portion of the bone to the ilium,' i that I was compelled to introduce a spatula between the sawn ends and used it as a lever, by which he was enabled to detach the subjacent parts, and to finish the opera- ■] tion. A very small quantity of blood was lost, and the boy suffered less than wasa anticipated. The bone had lost very little of its original form; the round ligament and the cartilage were gone, and the head of the bone was slightly affected with superficial caries. Several patches were also seen on other parts where absorption of the surface d had taken place. Neither the finger nor probe could detect any morbid condition of the ilium, but the original site of the acetabulum was not to be found. “ The knee was now gently carried outwards, the removal of the fixed h< ad of the < femur now no longer acting as opposing that movement; and the divided end of the e bone which had been exposed during the operation was thus brought deeply into the ( wound. After the dressing and application of bandages necessary to retain the parts > in their new situation, and also to secure the limb in the straight line with the body, he was put to bed upon his back, and treated as for compound fracture. A slight attacks, of symptomatic fever ensued, which did not continue beyond a few days. j “ The wound quickly healed; the various sinuses soon ceased to discharge, and the health of the patient speedily improved. Within twelve months he enjoyed a most- useful compensation for the loss of the original joint; had perfect flexion and exten- r sion of the thigh, and every other motion except that of turning the knee outwards.- The limb, of course, remained shorter, by as much as had been cutoff from the top of the thigh-bone.” He died five years after the operation, of phthisis, and an opportunity was thus obtained of ascertaining the condition of the parts. Examination.—The thigh-bone had been sawn off a little below the less trochanter ; the upper end of its shaft was largely covered with fibrous tissue and very looselv; though firmly connected on the inner side with a mass of this structure u Inch n up the hind part of the liip-socket, so that the top of the shaft lay against but not at all supporting the upper lip of the socket, the front of which seemed filled with bone. 1 is probable that before the operation, as usual in cases of advanced disease of the hip-; joint, the margin of the socket had become everted, and the whole socket shallower . There was no appearance of synovial membrane, capsular ligament nor other part of a true joint. And the condition may be described as that of a soft anchylosis wit the connecting medium so long as to admit of very free movement. The prepara > is now in the Museum of the lloyal College of Surgeons of England ; and from car examination of it, the account I have just given is drawn up -—J. s* The second successful case is Feucusson’s (a), who operated in March 1845, on . of fourteen years, who had been first attacked with hip disease thirteen mont is pro “ The head of the bone could be felt through the soft parts, lying on the dorsum tin,* l ue neau in me none ouuiu uc iei o.ioug,.. . lorffC its identity could be more accurately ascertained by passing^the hnger^nto^a sinus, which opened on the surface, over and behind the trochanter major. . , extremity was so isolated that the fiuger could be passed round it in all direc * * * A longitudinal opening about six inches long, was made m the line rjg femur, extending from over the head of the bone to a little below the trochanter mil > and the tissues were separated from the shaft of the bone, so as to permit a curie 'J” to be used for the introduction of a chain-saw.” This, however, broke, ami j With a sharp-pointed bistoury. compelled to adopt another mode of procedure. ...... -• -—K r- - by separated all the soft parts from the neck of the bone and the [rochanters^ ™Z*T\ey«t, causing a an me suu g.u id uum ..... iiv-w* ... ~~ . • lpver, the knee to be moved across the opposite thigh, and using I the head’and portion of the bone thus isolated, was so thrust out of the wound, satisfi*^ couM with facUity apply the ordinary saw for the requisite section. Not being < ^ ith the condition of the interior of the tone at the surface exposed by the sa, , ., • i nliAiit tlivno nnnrtpra nf nn inch IllOrC. tlicn Clvw» larged the opening, and removed about three quarters of an inch moutherl cl«* pf wound with a few points of interrupted suture, and covered it loosely with a p fc ^ i;„f Nn nf sufficient magnitude to require a ligature was divided, me lint. No vessel of‘sufficient magnitude to require a ligature' (a) Excision of the Upper end of the Femur, in nn example of Morbus Coxarius; Med.«CWr* Trims., vol. xxviii. 1843-OF EXCISION OF THE KNEE-JOINT. 981 cavity was filled by a fibro-gelatinous mass, similar to the lining of the sinus. When the patient was put to bed, a long splint was applied, with a view to keeping up gentle extension. * * * There was scarcely any shock succeeding to the operation, and the i chief complaint was pain in the knee, which for some days after, was more severe than at any previous period. * * The length of bone removed was four inches and a j quarter, measured through the curve of the neck and shaft, and the limb is now (after his recovery) two inches and a half shorter than its fellow. The cartilage was almost : entirely removed from the head of the bone, and the surface was in a state of ulcera- ! tion- The trochanter and rest of the shaft seemed in a healthy condition.” (p 572-76 ) The operation was performed on the 1st of March, and on the 8th of May lie was able to get up and move about on crutches. Some months after he was in good health, walked i about on crutches, and had “ free movement both at the knee and hip, and already at the latter part, has considerable power in elevating the thigh by the action of the psoas and iliacus interims muscles.” (p. 579.) 1 V.—OF EXCISION OF THE KNEE-JOINT. CExcisio Genu, Lat.; Ausrottuny im Knieyelenhe, Germ.; Resection du Genou, Fr.) 2838. In excision of the knee-joint, according to Moreau’s method after placing the patient on his back, and compressing the femoral artery with a tourniquet, two longitudinal cuts are to be made, one on each side of the knee, beginning from two inches above the condyles of the thigh- bone, and running down till they reach the shin-bone, where they are con- nected by a transverse cut below the knee-cap. This flap, together with the knee-cap, is turned up, and the latter, if diseased, removed. The knee is then bent, so that the exposed condyles protrude on the sides the soft parts very carefully separated from the hind part of the bone’ pressed backwards with the left forefinger, and the bone sawn off. If the joint-ends of the shin- and splint-bones must also be removed a longitudinal cut is made upon the front edge of the shin-bone, and the already-made outer cut lengthened to the head of the splint-bone; the two flaps thus formed are now turned down, the head of the splint-bone removed with a small saw, and afterwards the head of the shin-bone cleared and sawn off. After the bleeding is stanched and the wound cleansed * the soft parts are brought together and covered with lint, compresses, and bCULTETUs’s bandage. The whole limb is placed on a long chaff pillow and kept in this posture with two well-padded splints, so as to prevent anv W movement of the limb, but without pressing on it. y S, )i-R\mlde1 a ^g'^dinal cut, beginning two inches above the knee-cap and endimr two inches below it ; then a transverse cut above it down to the thigh-bone, nearly in f " half circle around the joint. He then removed the knee-can divided nil u’ y “ § and carried a narrow knife close above the condyles behindPthe this-h l,,™!hS'a™e.nts» I spatula, sawed off .he hone, and then pro.raded’S heti of Z Kne fi™. * Mulder (a) proceeded in like manner - only after hivinn- n,,* , <>< bone, he bent the leg, by which the condyles were protrude ai!^^ !?"61 i W" ? 'T** «?S *P'in.-h..nes, iaving paE^iTal E “dtaT* ** ** part of According to Svme (c), two semicircular cuts should be made across the fore . (Vi) Waohtbb, above cited. ( ) &ABAT,EB> “bo™ C1ted, p, 457. (c) Above cited, p. 133.982 OF EXCISION OF THE KNEE-JOINT. (n) Above cited, p. 134. the joint, -xtending from one lateral ligament to the other, meeting at their extremi- •: ties, and including the knee-cap between them. Very free room will thus be afforded, ■which may be easily enlarged, if required, by cutting longitudinally at the point of!' union of the transverse incisions. The transverse cut, according to Jaeger’s method, has the advantage of at once.) affording a close insight into the seat and extent of the disease, and assists in the necessary variations of the operation. This proceeding is safer than Moreau”s, as the < separation of the soft parts from the back of the thigh may be effected without the | slightest danger, and the longitudinal cut may be rendered either unnecessary, or at least-ij of but half the length formerly employed. Accouding to Moreau, the cure does not take place by the union of the ends of the •: bones with callus, as Park, and Moreau, the father, supposed ; however, in Mulder’s sj case, even in twelve days after the operation, good callus had been formed; and, on cutting into it three months after, it was found well formed; only a partial destructions seemed to have taken place in it by the suppuration. Jaeger is also of opinion that true bony union by callus follows very rarely, and that even in most of the successful cases, only a tough fibrous tissue, like the intervertebral substance, or the ligamentous bands in many fractures of the neck of the thigh-bone, is formed, but which does not in the least oppose the movements of the joint, as there is a restricted artificial joint and a sort of motion. He correctly seeks for the causes of the e non-union, in the very extensive removal of the ends of the bones, in the undoubted destruction of union by improper dressing, and the early movement of the joint. The t whole of the condyles, therefore, should not be removed, so that the thigh-hone may ■ rest with a broad surface on the shin-bone ; such an apparatus should be applied that I the limb should very rarely be lifted up to be used, and the knee should be free. For the first four weeks the patient should observe the strictest quiet, the splints should only > be removed after the complete closure of the fistulous passages ; and the first attempt at rotating the thigh should not be made before the tenth or twelfth week, and raising the leg only after sixteen weeks. Syme (a) believes that it is often very difficult after the operation to bring the limb exactly straight, on account of the contracted state of the flexor muscles, which pre- vent it being straightened, notwithstanding the relaxation, which arises from the shortening of the limb ; that it is best to place the limb on a double-inclined plane, and in as good a position as is possible, with suitably-stroug pasteboard splints. In some days the tension ceases, and the bone must again be put perfectly straight. During the cure no absolute rest of the limb is observed, for the purpose of preventing actual anchylosis or bony union, as the very long bone that would be thus formed, besides being \ery inconvenient, as the joint is stiff', would be also more exposed to the danger of being fractured, as it offers a long lever to any violence which may act upon the extremity. Great mobility would render the limb useless. The principal difficulty in the cure consists in preventing the tendency of the limb to bend outwards, as well, also, as in preventing too free motion. . , ,.jf [I cannot refrain from noticing here a case of compound dislocation of the bone behind the leg which occurred to Anthony White some years since in \\ est- minster Hospital, and for the following slight sketch of which, from memory, am much indebted to him, as it is one of the most remarkable amongst the many ms of constitutional power, in young persons, with which I am acquainted. . , Case.—Matthew Burgess, aged seven and a half years, whilst running behind a cabriolet on August 2nd, 18.19, had his left leg caught in the wheel, which twisted ana dislocated the condyles of the thigh-bone through a large transverse wound above tnc bend of the knee-joint, and extending a little in front of either hamstring, ihe tir was so violent, that the condyles were also forced through the leg of his duck trous<E where they lay, on his admission into the hospital in the morning. The trousere having been cut off and the parts examined, neither popliteal nerve, vein, nor arter were found in the pit between the condyles, and it was not certain that they had ne> been torn through. Attempts were made to replace the bone, but without success. Looking at the child’s age, White was very averse to amputate the limb, and on consideration was determined to make an effort to save it I he boy wa-sAhm»|- left some hours that he might recover the immediate shock of the accident and tov a evening having cheered up, White passed a broad plaster spatula between the f on _ the condyles and the skin of the calf of the leg upon which they lay, and without Acuity sawed them off. The sawn shaft immediately dropped into. itt> P aoe.m^ passing the finger into the wound, which could not previously be done, it vas983 OF EXCISION OF THE ANKLE-JOINT. much pleasure that the popliteal artery was found pulsating. The limb was then placed on the side with the knee a little bent, the wound dressed, and some splints applied to keep it steady. Directions having been given to cut a hole through the bed, so that his motions might be passed without alteration of his position, this was made so large that in the course of the night he slipped right through, and was found on the i floor. He was immediately replaced and the apparatus re-adjusted. I am not in- formed how he went on, but at the end of a twelvemonth, short of four days, he was ; considered well enough to leave the house, the wound being healed; but he could not j bear upon his leg. Some months after a large abscess formed in front above the head of the shin-bone, and after the lapse of twenty months from the time of the acci- i dent, a large piece of bone about an inch thick exfoliated, and came away. From this time his amendment was permanent, and about five or six months after he became able i to bear on his leg, and at last to walk, having a wooden pin, about four inches long, fixed on the sole of his shoe, which was firmly fastened to the back of his leg by a light iron shield fitted to it. January 5, 1847.—I saw the boy, now fourteen years of age, a stout lad. The thigh- and shin-bone are firmly anchylosed by bone, in a slightly-bent posture. The scar is very distinct, and to the extent already described. The leg and foot are inclined a little outwards, so that the inner joint-surface of the head of the shin-bone juts forwards before the shaft of the thigh bone, and is rounded. The connexion of the two bones seems to be complete right across. The knee-cap is distinct, rather small, quite free from anchylosis, and capable of being moved a very little from side to side, but quite sufficiently to show that its natural condition is unchanged. Above the knee- cap is the scar by which the exfoliated bone came away. The calf-muscles are larger than usual, I think, for a boy of his age, which is rather remarkable, as the m. gastroc- nemius externus must have been completely deprived of its principal upper attachments. —J. F. S.] VI.—OF EXCISION OF THE ANKLE-JOINT. (Excisio Tali, Lat.; Ausrottung im Kniegelenhe, Germ.; Resection du Pied, Fr.) 2839. Excision of the lower end of the shin- and splint-bones was first performed by Moreau (a) in the following manner:—The patient being laid on his sound side, on a table covered with a mattress, the knee bent and the leg resting on the whole length of its inner surface, one assistant grasps it above, and another at the foot. The scalpel is thrust in perpen- dicularly upon the hind edge of the lower end of the splint-bone, the skin Sand cellular tissue cut through from above downwards, and the wound about three inches long, ends in a transverse cut, extending from beneath the outer ankle to the m. peroncus tertius. This flap is now separated from the surface of the splint-bone, turned up, and held upon the front of the leg. The m. peroncus longus and brevis are now separated from the part of the bone to be removed, which being cut off at the proper length I with a sharp chisel, can be easily taken away. Through the same wound I the lower end of the shin-bone is to be separated from all the soft parts I attached to its outside. The patient is now to be turned round, the leg ® laid on its outer side, and a fresh flap made by one cut, three inches long, K on the back and inner edge of the shin-bone, and another from the lower P end of the former, running below the inner ankle to the m. tibialis anticus, I. and the flap then turned up. The fleshy parts attached to the back of the I shin-bone are then separated to the height determined by the caries, so I that the finger can be passed between them. The leg is then turned on !' its front, and carried so far from the other leg, that the operator can kneel n down between its inner side and the edge of the table. A small narrow fs saw, with a blade six inches long, is now passed from within outwards, J through the opening between the muscles and the bone, to the other side, 1 then worked, and the handle sunk as it gets deeper in. After the sawing (n) Above cited, p. 91.—Itoux, nbovc cited, p. 63.984 EXCISION OF THE ANKLE-JOINT; is completed, the divided piece of bone must be freed and removed through the inner wound; in doing which the tendons of the m. tibialis posticus«; and of the m. flexor quurtus digitorum longus must be avoided. The chiseled end of the splint-bone must be made to correspond to the shin- ■ bone. If the disease have attacked the astragalus, all that part of the bone which is affected must be carefully chiseled away, so as not to leave a cut surface, which will prevent the new connexion between it and the shin-bone. After the wound has been cleansed and the bleeding stanched, each angle of the flaps is to be fastened with a suture, the knee half bent, the leg placed on its outer side, supported on a chaff pillow, and the wound covered with lint, compresses, and a Scultetus’s bandage. Jaeger (aj has modified Moreau’s method in the following manner. The longi- tudinal cut of three inches is sufficient, but the transverse cut must be larger, about two inches and a half, as he now only meddles with the skin, and therefore passes over the tendon of the m. peroneus tertius without injuring it. The L. shaped flap is dissected | upwards, the external malleolar sheath opened, and both tendons and muscles dissected from the back of the splint-bone. The anterior, posterior and external ligaments of the splint-bone are then cut away from that bone, the joint opened, and next the ligaments between the splint- and shin-bones, cut through, and the splint-bone divided above the diseased part with a chain saw, or in want of this, nipped off with the sharp bone-nip- pers ; the outer ankle is then grasped with the fingers of the left hand or with forceps, pulled up and completely separated from its hind connexions with the shin-hone; and whatever splinters remain must be taken away also. The joint-surfaces of the shin- bone and astragalus being now exposed, if they be found healthy the operation is con- cluded ; but, if otherwise, the extirpation of the inner ankle must be proceeded with. For this purpose the longitudinal cut of three inches must he carried through the middle of the inner ankle, and the transverse one forward an inch and a half, it may also be lengthened backwards so that a J_ shaped cut may be formed. The flap is now, toge- ther with the fascia, to be dissected off' close to the bone, the internal malleolar sheath opened, and all the parts on the back of the shin-bone, together with the nerves and vessels, carefully separated from the bone; and also on its front, the deltoid ligament cut through and the whole joint opened, in doing which the foot is again turned and the wound entered from the outside. After opening the joint, the inner ankle must be dislocated and brought out of the wound, by which the foot is turned at a right angle and rests on its sole. The shin-boue is then sawn off above the ankle with a small bow-saw. If the upper part of the astragalus be diseased, a small knife-saw may be passed into the wound, with which it may be sawn off, or what is better it may be removed with the file. Throughout the whole of this operation no tendon need be wounded, and the front of the annular ligament not cut through, as otherwise the antagonism to the Achilles’ tendon is taken away, and the operation is without satisfactory result (6). Mulder (c) removed the lower end of a carious splint-bone, in doing which he first took oft' the fungous growth from the bone, then removed a portion of healthy bone to- gether with the diseased part, enlarged the wound downwards with the scalpel below the ankle, separated it from the interosseous ligament, and through the capsular liga- ment and removed the lower part of the splint-bone. Kerst (2) also proceeded in nearly the same manner. [Excision of the Ankle-Joint is most commonly employed in English practice, for compound dislocation, in which the shin- and splint-bones, both usually, broken from their malleolar processes, which still remain attached to the astragalus, are protruded through the skin wound, and either cannot be drawn back into their place, or if they can, are held to excite such irritation by the inflammation of their synovial covering, as to endanger the life of the patient, or at best to render the cure very tedious and ex- hausting. Under such circumstances, Astley Cooper strongly advised the protruded ends of the bones should he sawn off, and afterwards the shaft replaced. If the patient be young, there is generally little shortening of the limb even after the removal of half an inch or an inch of bone ; and in the cases I have seen, anchylosis generally has not followed.—J. F. S.] (a) Above cited, p. G8S. triige zur Natur und Heilkunde, vol. ii. P- W« (ft) WEtiKK, I!., Zwei Kescctionen im Fuss- 1827. gelenke; in Fbiederich und IIesbelbach’s Bei- (c) Wachter, above cited. (d) Ueelkundige Mengelingen. Utrecht, 1835.—Hamburg. Zeitsch., vol. ii. part ii. p. lor.OF THE METACARPAL JOINTS, ETC. 985 : 2840. After decapitation of the splint-bone the wound is to be lightly- filled with oiled lint, the flaps fastened with some sticking plaster, the wound covered with lint, and the foot laid upon its outside with the knee half-bent,, upon a chaff pillow covered with lint and compresses, and the usual dressings. After decapitation of both bones, their ends must be brought near to the heel, the longitudinal and transverse wounds brought together with su- tures, the angle of the wound left open for the escape of the discharge, the wound covered with lint, and a bandage applied in the usual way. ° According to Moreau and Boyer, during the treatment the foot should be steadied by a foot-board attached to two side splints on the le«-, to keep it immovable. This Jaeger thinks only of consequence if the shin-bone be left In his case he dislocated both bones on the outside and placed them in Sharp’s concave splints on Sauter’s swing, till he applied the common splints. During the cure the ends of the bones approach each other, and become firmly- united; in consequence of which, in many cases, when the astragalus is left entire motion is destroyed. This firm connexion is only first produced in the space of a year, from the use of the limb. J . AfteJ the healing of the wound Sharp’s splints must be applied. So long as the foot is not firm the patient must walk with a crutch, till at last he can be fitted with a heel corresponding with the length of the lost bone (Jaeger.) VII.—OF EXCISION OF THE JOINTS OF THE METACARPUS AND METATARSUS. (Eiemo Meiacarpi et Metatarsi, Lat.; Ausrottung in clen Gelenlten der Mittelhand- und Mittelfussknochen, Germ.; Resection des Me'tar.arpiens et des Metatarsiens, Fr.) 2841. In the metacarpal and metatarsal bones, decapitation lias the great advantage of preserving the joint. The decapitation of the meta- carpal and metatarsal hones is performed with a longitudinal cut carried to the.extent of the portion of bone to be removed, the sheath of the tendon covering it opened, laid aside, the muscles separated from the sides of the bone, and the joint opened from above. The chain saw is then introduced by means of a small semicircular needle, or a narrow finger-saw is passed beneath the bone which it. divides, or it is cut off with Liston’s cutting torceps, or with the osteotome, lifted up, and whilst turned forwards or backwards, is completely separated from the soft parts. After the wound has been cleansed, a connecting bandage is put on and cold applications made To keep the bone in proper position, it is necessary to fasten a narrow pad, a foot long, on both sides, or upon the dorsal and plantar surface of the foremost phalanx with sticking plaster, and by draw mg back equally the ends of the long pad the bones are kept ogether and the ends of the pad are fastened upon the wrist or ankle- Snsof „laSrr‘ °n the f0i0t’ Wit,h a foot-board> a Pad of lint and some straps of p aster are commonly used, passed over the end of the phalanx and the ends brought over and fastened on the foot. ^ ’ cated a.^d fren^ntTnf fhe “eta?RrPal bone of tbe thumb, decapitation is often indi- from («). ’ *RICKE has obtained most successful results there- in) Gkknet, Ueber Resectionen ; in Hamburg. Zeitscli., vol. iii. part iv.[ 986 ] VIII.—OP EXCISION OF THE LOWER JAW. (Excisio Manila Inferioris, Lat.; Ausrottung des Unterkiefers, Germ.; Resection de la Machoire Infirieure, Fr.) 2842. Excision, Decapitation, and even the total Extirpation of the Lower Jaw, may be indicated by various kinds of disease (1). First, On account of cancerous degeneration, which has extended from the lips to the bone, or when the cancer has arisen in the bone itself. Second, On account of osteosteatoma, osteosarcoma, spina ventosa, or fungoid degene- ration of the jaw. Third, On account of deep-seated caries. Fourth, Ou account of exostoses, which cannot be removed at their base. And, Fifth, on account of want of union of fractures of the lower jaw. Accord- ing to the difference of the seat and extent of the disease, excision of the middle part, the chin, or of the sides, with or without the removal of the processes at the same time, or even the extirpation of the whole lower jaw-bone, may be required. That this operation should have a favourable result, the skin must be sound to such extent that it can properly cover the place of the removed part, and swelling of the neighbouring glands, or the signs of general can- cerous dyscrasy must not in general forbid every operation. The hope of a favourable issue is greatest in sarcomatous degeneration of the jaw, but it is doubtful in all cancerous affections. Only under the above-stated conditions of the skin and glands can cancerous dege- neration be considered as indicating this operation; but they are very rare ; and so far is Jaeger’s (a) opinion correct, who, although the cases of Dupuytren, von Graefe, Fricke, and others favour undertaking this operation for cancer, considers that in general it is contraindicated. Necrosis of the lower-jaw, if unaccompanied with caries, must not he held to indicate the operation ; for with proper treatment the dead piece of bone will be thrown off (2) or may be removed, for I have in several instances taken away more than half and in one case nearly the whole lower-jaw. j [(1) As will be presently seen, Deadrick was the first who, in 1810, cut away the side of the lower jaw; in 1812, Dupuytren sawed off a large portion of the front of the jaw ; in 1816, Anthony White removed half a necrosed jaw from the socket; in 1818, Astley Cooper sawed of the projecting part of the chin; in 1821, Graefb removed the front of the jaw, and in the same year, one-half of the lower jaw, which he exarticulated, and the patient lived; Mott's first operation, in which half the jaw was removed, by sawing through the chin and across the ascending branch, "as performed in March, 1822; his second, in which he exarticulated one-half, in May, 1822, died on the evening of the fourth day. Cusack removed the left half of the jaw in 1825, first sawing through the horizontal and afterwards the ascending branch, and then exarticulating the condyle. These several cases will be referred to present y. I have thought it well to give this brief historical account of the amputations of the lower jaw, the authorities for which the reader can refer to; because the French elairm excision of the jaw for Dupuytren, and the Americans, exarticulation of the jaw tor Mott ; hut neither of these justly-celebrated Surgeons have title to the origination, or to the first performance of either operation, and their reputation will lose nothing by thei jistmeed of merit being awarded to others, of whom, probably, their too ardent ad-^ mirers had no cognizance. . . , I regret I have no particulars, nor am able to obtain any particulars, but 1 naie a perfect recollection of a case of my late colleague, Tyrrell’s, about ten or fifteen ycare since in which a man, who had been very severely salivated, had necrosis of the whole lower-iaw • the right branch and the chin had come away before his admission into our hospital, and the left came away whilst he remained m the house. The jaw separated on both sides from the joint. He was not much disfigured by the exfoliation but haa the appearance of a person the horizontal branches of whose jaw were very shorty the chin very receding, his mouth was much pursed up, the skin of the chm PucktJV and the upper lip much overhanging the lower. Ills speech was not very material j affected.—J. F. S.] («) Rust’s Handbuch dcr Cliirurgie, vol. vi. p. 303.EXCISION OF THE LOWER JAW. 9S7 2843. Excision of the middle of the loiver-jctw is performed in the following manner. The patient being seated in a chair and his head fixed by an assistant a cut must be made in the healthy skin, beginning from the middle of the lower lip and carried over the chin down to the tongue-bone ; or if the skin be diseased, two cuts must be made from the edge of the lip to the tongue-bone, where they meet at an angle enclosing the diseased skin. The soft parts are now to be separated on each side from the affected bone to the places where it is to be sawn through, at which the periosteum and one or more teeth must be removed to prevent any hindrance to the sawing. At this place a pointed bistoury must be thrust through the soft parts, forming the bottom of the mouth, on the inner side of the jaw, a narrow compress thrust through this opening, and the bone sawn through with a small bow-saw, or with Key’s or Heine’s saw. The other side of the jaw is next treated in like manner, and then with a button-ended bistoury the soft parts attached to the inside of the sawn-off piece of bone, to wit, the insertions of the m. mylo- and qenio- hyoideus, dmded; in doing this, the bone must be held tightly with the fingers of the left hand, the knife kept close to the bone, and the tono-ue pressed aside by an assistant. The bleeding from the spouting vessels of the soft parts must be stopped by ligature, and that from the bone by pressure with wax or German tinder, or if need be, with the actual cautery; and the wound must be brought together at its upper part with the twisted, and at the lower part with the interrupted suture and sun- ported with straps of plaster. 1 ih If A™011'' be °f la,rge lt may be convenient to make a second transverse cut through the former, on the middle of the chin, so as to be able to turn back four flaps The division of the soft parts from the insides of the jaw, after having sawn it irough as above mentioned, is more convenient and easy than first separating the soft p< rts and then sawing. A narrow compress introduced and properly held by an assistant is a better guard than a spatula, strap of leather, horn; or leaden platefand jj ' e‘ . Rawing the bone obliquely from before backwards as recommended by many, unle,s something more of the healthy bone can be thereby preserved as also the ends of the bone together, is objectionable. The same also applies to Delpechs advice, that the ends of the bone should correspond on both sides^ven if ‘hat PurPose it be requisite to remove more healthy bone on the sound side Dim 111 a case, where, by bringing the ends of the bone together, danger of suffocation was caused by the pressure of the tongue-bone, kept them together at proper distance *tba P'cceof gold wire, and united the wound. The distance between the ends of the bone gradually diminished and they became firmly connected °f Only af ter removal of a small portion of the chin are the ends of the bone united bv a callus-Uke tough tissue; generally and after the large loss of bone a hard for Shewing °“B -U- “ hLever, te tougto* draw the tongue forward and fix if its retract on 1 8 unn®cessary to ss teiisrthe- a^arr f? “ ~ No,”bur’18!2'"‘°“e i ''iV Ueher Hescclioti cles Unterkiefera • ■n Heidelberg. Medic. Annalen, vol. i. part i. ’ tmns>aicd; in L:mcet>988 EXCISION OF THE to the left branch of the jaw-hone; the part thus described was three times its natural size. The jaw was removed by sawing it through an inch in front of each of its angles. The patient suffered little after the operation; on the twenty-seventh day he was able to drive one of his cabriolets; on the thirtieth some small portions of bone came away; and fifteen days after, his cure was completed. Graefe (a) removed, in the early part of 1821, from a woman aged forty, the front of the lower jaw, which had become involved in cancerous disease, sawing through it on each side; and the patient recovered completely in the course of five weeks. The case in which Astley Cooper (b) operated, was a fungous medullary exostosis on the chin. He cut down through the skin on each side of the tumour, and then sawed through the healthy part of the jaw, cutting off the prominence of the chin, but without meddling with the alveolar processes, so that the arch of the jaw remained perfect. The operation was performed, I believe, in 1818, but certainly not later than in the beginning of the year following, and the woman did well. Although the opera- tion was not of such importance as those just mentioned; yet as it was, so far as I am aware, the first upon the jaw performed in London, I have thought it right to notice it. The preparation is in St. Thomas’s Museum.—J. F. S.] 2844. In removing a portion of the side of the lower jaw without the con- dyle the cut for laying bare the bone must be made in different ways, accord- ing to the size and seat of the bony tumour, sometimes from the corner of the mouth to below the edge of the jaw ; still better is an oblique cut from the corner of the mouth to the place where the bone is to be cut through, or from the corner of the mouth in form of a _J cut; in very large swellings a T cut; when the skin is much diseased, two elliptical cuts from the corner of the mouth ; or if the entire side with the angle or part of the ascending branch is to be removed, then a ] J cut or the like. The flaps are now to be separated close to the bone, held back by the as- sistants, and the soft parts on the inside of the bone carefully detached, the knife being carried close to the bone where it is to be sawn through. After the compress has been introduced, the bone is to be sawn through, first in front, and then the piece, grasped with the left hand, must be pressed downwards and outwards, and with the knife carried close to the bone all the remaining soft parts carefully separated to the extent of the tumour behind ; the compress is then introduced, the bone held in this nosition by an assistant and cut off. The sawn-out bone is now drawn outwards and completely separated from the soft parts forming the bottom of the mouth, the bistoury being kept witli the greatest care close to the bone. After stanching the bleeding, the wound must be brought to- gether at the lip with the twisted, and on the cheek with the interrupted suture and supported with sticking plaster. . Sawing through the bone first in front is most convenient, because the operator can then draw it to him and turn it down. If the soft parts be divided from the whole inside of the bone before it is sawn through at the back part, the sawing is accompamea with greater difficulty than if the soft parts be divided afterwards, especially it tne tumour be of large size. „ , , . _ Since Deadrick and Dupuytren first performed resection of the lower jaw, tne nnpration h;is been very frequently performed and with much success. P Dkad,!>ck (C) of Rogersville, Tennessee, is justly entitled to the merit of having first in 1810, amputated a portion of the jaw of a child of fourteen, who had a tumour occupying the left side of the lower jaw. “ An incision was commenced under the zygomatic process, and continued on the tumour, in the direction of the W to nearlyTn inch beyond the centre of the chin A second incision was begun ' . ’ „,i,iv, .,v -it right angles with the first, and extending a short distance down tti neck. The mteguments were now separated from their connexion with the tumoi , (n) Jahresberichtdescliirurgiscli-augeniiretbclien Institute 7.u Berlin.—(Jbaefk und von W ai.thkr s Journal, vol. iii. p. 256. 1822. (/i) Cooper and Travers’s Surgical Essays, part i. p. 1*9. 1818. ... lsog. (c) Amer. Med. Recorder, vol. vi. p. 516. 1989 LOWER JAW. and the bone was sawed off immediately at the angle and centre of the chin. The wound was united in the usual manner, and the boy had a speedy and happy re- covery.” Mott’s first operation was in 1821 (a), in which, after having sawn through the chin, and after the maxilla inferior had been laid bare, just below its division into two processes, and it appeared sound,” he, “ with a fine saw, made for the purpose, smaller and more convex than Hey’s, began to saw through the bone obliquely downwards and backwards and finished with one less convex.” This was for osteosarcoma 1 It is claimed for Wardrop (b), that he first, in England, in March, 1827, amputated the lower jaw, in a case of exostosis; the jaw was cut through first behind the last molar tooth, and then between the middle two incisive teeth. The following are accounts of some of these operations :— Klein ; in Neue Chiron von Textor, vol. i. part ii. p. 345. Chei.lan ; in Medical Review, and Anal. Journal. Philadelphia, 1824. Delpech; in Revue Medicate, vol. iv. p. 5. 1824. Lallemand ; in Journal Universel des Sciences Medicales, vol. xxviii. p. 340. Dybeck; in Froriep’s Notizen, vol. viii. p. 95. Schuster ; in same, p. 304. behre, G., Bemerkungen liber die theilweise Excision und Exarticulation des Unterkiefers, nebst den zur Geschichte dieser Operation gehorigen Fallen • in Rust’* Magazin, vol. xxiii. part iii. p. 387. ’ Meyer, J. C., Dissert, de Exstirpatione partium degeneratarum Maxilla; Inferioris. ±>erol., 1824a 4to. Koecker, An Essay on the Diseases of the Jaws and their Treatment • with Observe tions on the Amputation of a part or the whole of the Inferior Maxilla. London 1828. 9 Delpech, Me'morial des Hopitaux du Midi et de la Clinique de' Montpellier. 1829 ■ p. 123. 5 Jaeger; in Rust’s Handbuch der Cliirurgie, vol. vi. p. 496. Boyer, Me'moire sur 1’Amputation de l’Os Maxillaire Inferieur; in Journal Comule'- ment. du Diet, des Sciences Medicales, cah. 174. 1 Dupuytren, Lemons Orales de la Clinique chirurgicale, vol. iv. p. 625. 2845.^ Excision of the lower jaw, together with the removal of its con- dyle (Exurticulatio Maxilla; Inferioris) requires a different mode of making the cut, according to the different condition of the tumour and of the skin over it. The cut may be made from the corner of the mouth over the swelling, to the front of the ear, and the condyle of the jaw (Mott, Schindler) ; or to the hinder edge of the branch of the jaw a second cut from the beginning to the end of the first cut, circumscrib- ing the diseased skin, and thence in an oblique direction to the condyle von Graefe) ; or in very large swellings, and great disease’of the skin,' two elliptical cuts, of which the one passes in the direction of the base and branch of the jaw to the condyle, and the other upwards, by which the coronoid process is laid bare, the m. temporalis divided, and the joint opened at its fore part (Same) ; or in shape of an oblong, four-cornered flap, from the corner of the mouth to the neighbourhood of the external maxillary artery from thence at a distance of a quarter of an inch from ftJ; r °f. t.he ho!f t0 t.he anDle of the lower jaw, and then upwards to he front of the joint an inch distant from the ear (Jaeger). The flans are now separated from the bone, and in doing this, injury of the Stenonian (a) New York Medical and Physical Journal vol i. p. 386.—American Medical Recorder, Jan ’ 13_2. This case is given at length in Gibson’s Institutes and Practice of Surgery, vol ii n oo Philadelphia, 1827. y’ P’ ~S- (i>) Lancet, vol. xii. p. 27 1826-27.EXCISION OF THE 990 duct and parotid gland, must be avoided. The m. masseter is cut through at the base of the lower jaw, the m. buccinator separated from the outer surface, and both together with the parotid gland raised up till the joint is laid bare. The soft parts are now separated from the inside of the bone, and the bone sawn through at its fore part, as already described, and the division of the soft parts from its inside completed. The bone is then depressed as much as possible, for the purpose of disengaging the coronoid process from the zygomatic arch, and rendering the m. temporalis tense. The condyle is thus thrown completely on the articular tubercle, so that there is perfect dislocation. The knife is now canned above the coronoid process and the tendon of the temporal muscle cut off, then over the semi- lunar notch between the two processes, and whilst the point of the knife is kept as close as possible to the condyle, the internal pterygoid muscle is divided. The jaw can now be further dislocated, which is so much the better, as thereby the condyle is still further separated from the ves- sels. Continuing close to the neck of the condyle, the stretched capsular ligament is cut into in front. The assistant pressing the jaw still more downwards, and moving it backwards, the condyle next becomes visible, and the knife being carried over it to the hinder ligament, cuts through it, whilst the edge of the knife is kept close to the bone, and the point not carried forward. After the bleeding vessels have been tied, the wound is brought together and managed as in resection of the jaw. von Graefe (cl), Mott (6), Langenbeck (c), and Jaeger (d) operate in this way, which is generally to be considered as the most safe and convenient. Cusack (e) con- siders it better, when in large tumours it is not thought right to lay hold of the bone sawn through in front, to grasp it between the angle and the condyle with strong forceps, and to press the condyle against the front of the capsular ligament, penetrate the joint, enlarge the opening with the button-ended bistoury, thrust the condyle out, and separate its other connexions with the capsule as well as with the external pterygoid muscle. . Jaeger speaks very decidedly against this sawing through the bone above its angle, and the after removal of the processes; in one case where the bone was completely separated from its branch, it was impossible to pull forward the remainder of the hone so as to separate the tendon of the temporal muscle from the coronoid process. I he joint must be opened in front, and by pulling forwards the head of the bone with a strong hook it must be gradually separated from its hinder connexions. Cutting through the tendon of the temporal muscle is then effected so easily that he advises the conch Ic should always be first set free. Holding the stump of the bone is especially difficult? and according to his experiments on the dead body, he considers sawing through lie branch is difficult, and the exarticulation not rendered easier by doing so. On the other hand, Schindler (/) justly observes that the exarticulation may he effected with complete certainty without sawing through the jaw at its hinder eno, when the tumour of the bone is not of great size ; hut that every large tumour raiders its removal indispensable, else the exarticulation may become unnecessarily difficult, and only be completed with some danger. In his case the swelling was so large. tn« even after removing its upper part, it was almost impossible to penetrate the joint, antt effect the disarticulation with safety. He found no difficulty in the division ot the mg cnsed bone and could grasp conveniently the remaining piece, although only an inch and a quarter long, with the fingers of his left hand, draw it well towards him, ana easily dislocate the condyle. The patient recovered. _ ,:n Mott von Graefe, and Dzondi have held the previous tying the common carotin artery necessary, but experience has shown that this is superfluous, is dangerous, ana no safeguard against bleeding (Jaeger, Schindler.) . ™ .. of the entire jaw be necessary, the bone must be sawn through in tM If the removt («) Journal, vol. iii. part ii. p. 257 (b) Above cited. (c) Tiensch, Dissert, de Osteosarcomate par- tiali Maxillrc inferioris, deque hujus Hesectione. (d) Above cited, p. 605. # (e) Dublin Hospital Reports, vol. iv. p. «>«• (/) von Graefe und von W a ethers JournwLOWER JAW. 991 middle, and the extirpation performed on either side, as already directed ('Dupny- tken), (a). v [Samuel Cooper (b), after mentioning that Wepfer quotes a case of amputation of the lower jaw, which had occurred in his time, says, “ Mr. Anthony White, Surgeon to the Y\ estmiuster Hospital, removed at Cambridge a considerable portion of the bone for an osteosarcoma many years ago. Unfortunately the case was not published, so that the revival and execution of the operation are generally referred to Dupuytren who m 1812 performed his earliest excision of the lower jaw-bone.” (p. 275 ) In consequence of Samuel Cooper's statement, I was induced to inquire of my friend v\ HITE, for information in regard to his operation on the lower jaw, and I have much pleasure in communicating to the profession the following particulars, with which he has kindly furnished me, from which it appears, that he actually disarticulated the Mott jaW'bone from lts socket five years before Graefe, and six years previous to The following is White’s Case.—“ In the summer of 1816 I was requested to see a man, named Litchfield affppt11!? 1R,nhe rWn °f Cambridge, who for upwards of three years had been miserably affected with a disease of the. lower jaw, occupying the entire left cheek, and wholly incapacitating him from opening his mouth. He states, that in attempting to bridle his hWC1 S borse’ | ie aiumal, by an unexpected jerk of the head, struck him a violent and altLthVm)ver JT ’ ^ tbe part for a few weeks remained painful and swollen • ,d altkough after a lapse of time, the enlargement occasioned by the injury had eon- siderably diminished, yet a slight preternatural fulness and occasional pain Remained ,mo"ths fei; a rigidity in the motions of the jaw at its joints succeeded accent Ch Ah- an °a y accimlHllatlng and hard enlargement extending from the ear nearly to the chin. By degrees, the jaw wholly lost its powers of motion, and finally the teeth sraaTaht m y ^7 on,!hose °f.the uPPer jaw, which was followed by the formation of fm thflttf8 external,7 a’K 1Ilternally- Thin fluids, as milk and broths, have been nolUt i ■ years his only nourishment; and during this time he has been com- wh ch thiuthtw? alm°St,ere?t Posjure, on account of a perpetual internal discharge he wtlwA. 7 m 16 borizoVtal posture, poured down his throat, producing, when to thAr A • Ce?’ 3 ooustaut alarm of suffocation. The whole cheek, from the ear 1,7) b 7 down tke side of the nose to the angle of the mouth, and thence to the ItrA fart °f tle phln’ and afiain upwards to behind the lobe of the ear, presented one large ! S7l7AS‘feelim gr0wtb’ Studded witb many sinuse^ tlie Andings ff fh„t t! were dlfficult.t0 trace- Tke eye was so considerably projected from the socket ,hfithe-eyelVds,COU d c,over but a very small portion of the globe, and such was the rigid’ withinVt*for the 6 Cheek’ tlfiat nmdl- difficulty was experienced in introducing the finger noint of fhl ? parpos® of examining the disease internally. I discovered, howeve? a point of the jaw-bone bare within the cheek, and by pressure, perceiving an oZrI,™ Z iA°fltlWh0le Side’ 1 was induced t0 believe that the bone wlf ehhfr carious or t f „ .1;r‘>Uf,h0Ut 'tS .w'l|0le extent, although there had not been at any time the least exfoliation through either of the many sinuses. By repeated examination.! T i f, m.dead neighbour, might be restored to its important duties. I also considered fw ''S |the long-existing thickened and altered ctcto of 1 o , 0 considered that from in the University, Dr. ie assistance 1 am much 1 an^my^rs”o^e(rt'beingttAxpos7the^n^ iT" firmly.fixed on the side upon a pillow, nfrom the root of the nvnmS !™ r’ ibgan an lncislon> as near as 1 could guess I W ZI”. yg°mdt,C P,0CCSS °f the !fmporal bone> aad carried it oblffij 0f(^8DiCti0nary °f Practical Surgery. KditionEXCISION OF THE 992 downwards and forwards considerably beyond the angle of the jaw towards the chin. In consequence of the thickened state of the integuments, the depth of the wound was very great before I could reach the bone; but having made sufficient room for the introduction of my finger, I was gratified in finding the bone without its periosteum; and with a curved bistoury, the incision was speedily finished upwards to the zygomatic arch, and downwards beyond the edge of the lower jaw opposite the third molar tooth. With the handle of a scalpel and the blade of a pair of forceps, sufficient separation was made to allow the point of the forefinger to range freely and to separate the surround- ing diseased structure from the enclosed bone. By thus doing, I was enabled to slide the forefinger within the ascending branch of the jaw-bone into the mouth, and the thumb under its angle. On endeavouring to ascertain the degree of fixture which the bone might have, I discovered a complete fissure of separation in an oblique direction from where the finger entered the mouth towards the chin, through the entire jaw, but the bone was immovable at the temporo-maxillary articulation. After repeated unsuc- cessful attempts at dislodging the condyle, I determined to saw vertically through the ascending branch of the bone, between the condyloid and coronoid processes, calculat- ing that the separation would be more easily effected by bringing it away in two or more pieces. I therefore applied a small straight and narrow saw upon this part with excellent effect, as its end passed with facility, in the required movements, under the zygomatic arch ; and Key’s saw was very useful in cutting through the thicker part towards the angle. I now with a pair of strong forceps, grasped the lower edge of the divided bone, and easily dislodged the coronoid process, and I removed it together with the lower part of this portion. Having thus gained considerable room, the separation of the con- dyle and remaining portion of the ascending branch became quite easy. The bone, although dead, retained its form unaltered. The glenoid cavity of the temporal bone was by the finger discovered to be denuded and rough. The carotid artery was now felt distinctly pulsating, the finger being enabled to rest upon it. One great object having been thus attained, we were anxious to ascertain the state of the other articula- tion, and were highly gratified in finding that a slight degree of motion existed which gradually became increased. Some few months after, I had the satisfaction of finding the wound and sinuses healed; the swelling and its warty character subsided; the globe of the eye retired into its socket, and the motions of the jaw restored. The patient lived several years after.” Giiaei'e (a), in 1821, exarticulated one side of the lower jaw of a young woman, having previously tied the carotid artery, for lujdrostosis carcinomatodes, which had destroyed more than half the jaw, and on the left side reached up to the condyle. The swelling extended far back, and pressed on the important vessels and nerves of the neck. Internally it thrust the tongue against the right cheek, and so completely filled the mouth, that latterly the patient was able to swallow even fluids with the greatest effort, could only utter words indistinctly, and breath with extreme difficulty.. As death’by hunger or choking was all but certain, it was determined to run the risk of operating in hope of saving her. The left common carotid artery, which was very large and pulsated strongly, was carefully tied, and immediately the pulsation in the tem- poral and facial arteries ceased. A cut was then made from the angle of the mouth to the hinder edge of the jaw ; a second, which included the diseased mass, was earned from the front point of the first cut to its hind end; and a third, beginning at this hitter point was carried upwards in the direction of the condyloid process, above the joint and nearly to the ear. The outer surface first, and then the inner surface of the diseased half of the bone, were freed from the soft parts continuing the separation to the chin, and then, a piece of leather having been introduced, the jaw was cut through at the chin, and afterwards exarticulated. When the bleeding had been stanched, and the corner of the mouth carefully fixed, a simple dressing was applied. Up to the eighth day she was perfectly well, could speak loud and distinctly, ate, drank, ana k,, .i,„ Unlf of the lower firmlv airainst the unoer iaw : but on to month. (rt) Above cited, p. 257.993 LOWER JAW. Mott (a) exarticulated, on 15fA May, 1822, the right side of the jaw 0f a young man of eighteen, affected with osteosarcoma, which had existed eight years had^conf menced at the molar teeth, filled the whole mouth and spread as far as the first bicuspid tooth on the opposite side. He first made a semilunar cut through the integuments Wh the,lobe °f ,the ear to the chin; sawed through the jaw at the second bicuspid 2“ he tslde> and then exarticulated the jaw on the right side. The swell,Ppg weighed twenty-two ounces, and was as large as the head of a full-grown foetus Thf patient went on well and on the morning of the fourth day two-thirds of the wound found violenfiv uVeTg °f th.at day be died' 0n examination, the lungs were ou d violently inflamed; the anterior mediastinum contained a quantity of vollnw 0f the consistence of Pus; the pericardium held a pint of yellow serum and the pleura was enormously thickened. The inference drawn woi « t t\PePrpreSrah?oa^’thaToXientl died of dise“e of lungs which had no connexion with readers will probabhy a^ee “ FE S J°Urnal appends ? with which most serves, “is in immediate contact with the faw The internnl L n arter'e.s’' he ob- condyle dislocated and P7 S 1 maybe opened anteriorly, the disengagement of the condyle was efffcted bv aMunf0 !f?-ule at th,s Part, the fiously round the joint, and dividing the Ittachment10f thf“exfernal^’ T' This second section of the bone mav onnenr c,.,.* • me exteinal pterygoid muscle, to be removed from the aSffi ^, t h f Tnece.“aiT, when the jaw is second division of the bone would be unnecessary’Wp sn hAW6yer’ ’n whi?h the Liston (c) recommends partially sawing through the lmiL n't *i, i • placing the cutting forceps in the notch to flip ^through He obSr ", a"d tIlCn b>' to stanching the bleeding, that “much time and trouble will oLnT a'fVn reSard looking for and securing the common trunk of the tnm f f • Saved b^ at once arteries as they emerge from under the bordertpl and eternal maxillary muscle.” (p. 318.)] 6 b°lder of the Posterior belly of the digastric Upon this subject the following „iters „ay o]so be » TSSX?SS„UXa|;e^“ ->» Uutei-kiefers , provia subli'gationfcarotidis^Aal.f'leuG?01118 (llu,ldia! MaxilIle Inferiors; ex articulo, Jaeger ; in Rust’s Ilandbuch der Chirurgie, vols. v. and a Ne,"' Y°.rk M.e<i- *n<l Pl>ys. Journal, vol ii m,"1t°’,.n.M',‘.c!'cftl Reorder, vol.v. 1822! vi.; and in Handworter- eport, not havin^hcen'nble to’aco oUhw of ft! [c] p“b[j" H?sPital Sports, vol. iv. 1827 VOX.. II W "radical Surgery. • • ’ 3 s994 OF RESECTION b uch der Chirurgie. Article Resectio Ossium, ■which treats very fully of the decapita- tion and resection of the several bones. _ [Perry (a) had a case of necrosis of the whole lower jaw, the front of which he removed by making an incision from the front of one masseter muscle to the other, dividing the bone on each side with the saw and nippers On the next day the right ascending branch which had dropped a little, was removed without difficulty ; and three weeks after, the left, which adhered rather more firmly.] Sixth Section.-OF RESECTION OR EXCISION IN THE CONTINUITY OF BONES. (Hesectio Ossium in continuitate, Lat.; Resection in der Continuitat der Knochen, Germ.; Resection, Fr.) I.—Of Resection of the Upper Jaw. 2846. Resection of the Zipper Jaw, performed at an early period for various diseases in the Highmorian cavity, with chisel and hammer, or with the sickle-shaped knife (Desault), has been in modern times spe- cially brought into notice by Dupuytren in 1819, and since then per- formed by many Surgeons. It is indicated in caries, fungous degenera- tion of the alveolar process and of the upper jaw, in osteosteatoma and osteosarcoma, in medullary fungus, and polypous degeneration of the maxillary cavity. The performance of this operation is difficult, the shock very great; violent bleeding, and spreading of the inflammation to the brain may occur; and in malignant degeneration, the permanent benefit of the operation is very doubtful on account of the frequent recurrence of the disease. . . rGensocl (b) shows that Dupuytren did not remove the whole jaw in 1819, but only followed Jourdain and Desault’s method of scooping out the contents ofThe aj trum- and in regard to Sanson and Pinel Grandchamp, who were stated to have wit nessed this operation, he says I saw these two practitioners for the purpose of know- ing what method had really been adopted Sanson informed me that he hid no knoj ledge of the fact of an entire removal of the superior maxillary bone, that he knew only of the operation performed in 1820, which was similar t0 of the other in the year 1824 ; and that in the latter case, a large piece of the edge ot the alveolar process had been removed with a small saw. Pinel Grandchamp said he had witnessed the two operations mentioned by Sanson, but lie had never heard say ffia Dupuytren had even thought of removing the whole superior * w(P.'e ,he Rut neither Dupuytren nor Desault, nor Garengeot, noi «J * V • original performers even of this scooping operation, for Akoluthus (c), a p mi n Breslau, being consulted in 1693, by a woman who had a.^“0^t ^o^’nart of the lowed the extraction of a tooth, enlarged the mouth with a cut, remo e p rt ° swelling, together with f ur teeth, but not being able at once to get complete } it, he attacked it several times, at intervals of a few days, sometimes with cutting instruments, and sometimes with the actual cautery, and at last succeeded g PaThf nearest approach to a total removal of the whole superior n'axillary bon^if i • non iq*io graves du Sinufr Maxillnirc ct dc l ^ a (c) Ephemerid. Medico-physicarum. etc. Deed. m. Ann. iv. vm.o*.995 OF THE UPPER JAW. its orbit, so that it lay on the left temple, yet, though thus distorted, it still performed its office The tumour occupied the greatest part of the left side of the face, extending from the lower part of the upper jaw, to the top of the forehead, and from the farthest part of the left temple to the external canthus of the eye. It had an unusual and un equal bony hardness. It was of a dusky livid colour, with varicose veins on the surface and there was a soft tubercle projecting near the nose, where nature had endeavoured in vain to lelieve herself. For the removal of this disease, he continues, “I began with “rCUlari !UCVST be!0W ,the disIocated eye, in order to preserve that organ, and as mrthof\hpSS/ble°f thr ®rblc"lar.muscIe 5 then carrying the incision round the external pa t of the tumour, I brought it to the bottom of it, and then ascended to the Diace t,btJe I befan’ taklrie care not t0 injure the left wing of the nose. After taking away “ fem.a Part of the tumour, which was separated in the middle by an imperfect sup^ hv ’ there appeared a large quantity of matter, like rotten cheese, in part covered sbJnn '7y substance, which however, was so carious, as to be easily broken through I scooped away abundance of this matter, with a great many fragments of rotten bones the nn,Ceean‘e WOUnd fr0m blood and filth> witb a sponge, I found the left bone of the nose, and the zygomatic process carious, and easily removed them with an elevator fc ™ no remains of the bones composing the orbit of the eye, which wereplainly aD/riby the same disease. The optic nerve was denuded as far as the dura mater ■ ,the “d pulsation of the vessels of the brain were apparent to the eve t\ f?he left fPfiar ^axillary bone, in the sums of whicHhis disease hid “f ,7 ° ’ d remained a long time concealed, was surprisingly distended and in some places became carious; it had exfoliated from the lower part to the sockete of the ai weeks to lie on her face to prevent suffocation. * * * TIip mtipnt i The eye returned to its place, and she enjoyed the perfect sight of it P The onl -Vered' oTtreevehaVTfed, JaS a --tant^schargePof :t^om the gSaS^E of the eye, which I could never thoroughly cicatrize.” (p. 135-38 j S ™ As regards the actual proposer of the entire removal of the la w the,... , knowledge of Lizars’s proposition, performed the operation i’n the spring of 1827 ^ without previously tying the carotid or any other artery,-J. F. S.] P S 827’ and thr284^' J'16, .°Pera,tion consists in the following acts-first, cuttimr • gh,the7skl7n an<? muscIes i second, cutting out the diseasS part of the jaw and, third, bringing the wound together. The different mode of conductmg these acts depends especially upon the extent of disease in the rJ848, Tbe Pa,ient is ^ated On a chair not very high, with his head ,"gf °n S breast of an assistant, who stands behind him. A cut is , ^Somatic"1ora J or T^hTped^ a second cut is made to within four lines of the lobe of T f theInfse’ I^°rr„4hh rT f “VOi,li"8 ^ o/that Uf of the L,% T.flni . E™Cs.‘s,,oLnnTaruusetwTLa'sofas,to r:er‘ * 5LST1? Idieffenbacii ill the „-ni’ v 7 sbou d be carried> according to 1 cheek. The flan« f ?\ldcde lae °* tbe Pace, instead of through the - to sufficient extent0™^ °P-e °f tbese waevs> are separated from life bone - «* "'-verse feS * fingers, or wilh a blunt Ck P* ^ “ “istant, with 3 s 2996 OF RESECTION [There can be no doubt that Lizars is justly entitled to the credit of having, in 1826, proposed the entire removal of the superior maxillary. Speaking of “polypi or sarcomatous tumours which grow in the antrum,” he says (a) : —“ All the cases that have come within my knowledge, (with the exception of one,) wherein these sarcomatous tumours have been removed by laying open the antrum, have either returned or termi- nated fatally. I am therefore decidedly of opinion, that unless we remove the whole diseased surface, which can only be done by taking away the entire superior maxillary bone, we merely tamper with the disease, put our patient to excruciating suffering, and ultimately to death. The inferior maxillary bone has now been nearly entirely re- moved for osteosarcoma with success, and I see no difficulty in accomplishing the same with one of the superior maxillary. We secure the common carotid artery for other tumours of the face, and for aneurism by anastomosis, and why not do it for so loathsome and fatal a disease as this ? The steps or plan of the operation I would suggest for so fatal a disease, are, first, to secure the trunk of the common carotid artery of the affected side ; next to make an incision through the cheek, from the angle of the mouth back- wards or iniad to the masseter muscle, carefully avoiding the parotid duct, then to divide the lining membrane of the mouth, and to separate the soft parts from the bone upwards to the floor of the orbit; thirdly, to detach the half of the velum palati from the palate bone. Having thus divested the bone to be removed of its soft coverings, the mesial incisive tooth of the affected side is to be removed ; then the one superior maxillary bone to be separated from the other, at the mystachial and longitudinal pala- tine sutures, and also the one palate bone from the other, at the same palatine suture, as the latter bone also will require to be removed either by the forceps of Mr. Liston, or a saw; thirdly, the nasal process of the superior maxillary bone should be cut across with the forceps; fourthly, its malar process, where it joins the cheek-bone; fifthly, the eye with its muscles and cellular cushion being carefully held up by a spatula, the floor of the orbit is to be cleared of its soft connexions, and the superior maxillary bone separated from the lacrymal and ethmoid bones, with a strong scalpel. The only objects now holding the diseased mass, are the pterygoid processes of the sphenoid bone with the pterygoid muscles. These bony processes will readily yield by depressing or shaking the anterior part of the bone, or they may be divided by the forceps, and the muscles cut with the knife. The bone or bones are frequently so soft in this disease, as to be easily cut with a knife or scissors. After the bone with its diseased tumour has been removed, the flap is to be carefully replaced, and the wound in the cheek held to- gether by one or two stitches, adhesive plaster and bandage. In no other way do I see that this formidable disease can be eradicated.” (p. 58.) The operation which Lizars proposed, he endeavoured to perform in December, 1827, but without success, and he thus mentions it (b) :—“I attempted to remove this bone for a medullary sarcomatous tumour of the antrum, from a miner or collier, after securing the common carotid artery of the affected side, but I was prevented by the haemorrhagic disposition of the gum and palate, my patient having lost, in a few seconds, upwards of two pounds of blood, which welled out at every incision, as if there had been an aneurism by anastomosis. The man survived this attempt seventeen months.” (p. 54.) _ , On August 1,1829, Lizars performed his second operation (c); he first tied the trunk of the temporal and internal maxillary arteries, and also the external jugular vein which had been divided on the first incision. He cut through the alveolar process and bony palate on the left side of the palatine suture, and completely separated the upper jaw, with the saw, Liston’s forceps and strong scissors; but the orbitar plate was separated from the eyeball by the handle of a knife. The tumour was medullary sarco- matous, and a portion of it, attached to the pterygoid process of the sphenoid hone, could not be detached ; but part of the malar bone involved in the disease was removed.. On the sixteenth day the wound had healed, and she left the house on thatday. Three days after she expired suddenly, but uo examination was permitted. Lizars’ third operation (d) was performed on 10th January, 1830, on a woman, after having first tied the external carotid artery. After slitting up the nostril, making a flap of the cheek, and divestiug the bone of its coverings where it was to be sawn through, he applied the saw on “ the front of the superior maxillary bone between the nostril and the mouth, or at the side of the mystachial suture ; the palatine plate back- wards from this, parallel with the longitudinal palatine suture, to near where the trans- palatine suture exists; across the same palatine plate towards the bulbous process; verse (n) A System of Anatomical Plates, &c., part ix. The Organs of Sense, &c. Edinburgh, 182b. 8vo. (6) Lancet. 1829-30; vol. ii. (<0 18 0. (<0 London Medical Gazette, vol. v. P' Lancet, above cited.997 OF THE UPPER JAW. upwards between the bulbous process and the pterygoid processes of the sphenoid bone across where it joins the cheek-bone ; and, lastly, at its nasal process, parallel with the interior margins of the lachrymal and nasal bones. I then with strong scissors cut the connexions of the orbitary plate with the os planum of the ethmoid bone, and orbitary process of the palate-bone, deep into the orbit, to the spheno-maxillary fissure and was, lastly, able, by notching with the bone forceps at every point where the saw' had been applied, to remove the entire bone which had its cavity filled with a firm sar- comatous tumour. The patient was able to walk about her room on the eighth day and went out t0 take an airing on the thirtieth day; and she left the Hospital on 5th March following, (p. 55.) I have, for the sake of conveuience, put these three cases together; but although t-TZARS first proposed the operation in this country, it was first performed by Gensoul, of Lyons, on 26th May, 1827, who states that he was not aware what method Ljzars had employed (a), on a lad of seventeen, for a fibrocartilaginous tumour of the upper tbe,wbole left side of tlle face, and pushing to one side the orifice of the month; it extended from above downwards, from the floor of the orbit to two lines above the chin ; from before backwards, from the nose, which was thrust to the right, to cirnt"! °Vhe f, °f *,he mfen?r maxillary bone.” (p. 17.) He did not first tie the L I Ta11 “adr a VCrtICal cut from the imier corner of the eye vertically ct nrS the upper lip, opposite the left cuspid tooth. From the middle of this cut, or rather nearly on a level with the floor of the nose, he made a second up to four lDZr°mt -l6 Ti °f t,he !?be °f the ear’ and a third cut beginning five or six ifnel un ?o the fndeR°fH hep°r,blc d°Yn t0 the end °f the second, then turned the flap nhV the forehead. But for the purpose of completely exposing the tumour, he was innef ed !e C°Dt'nuc’ from the junction of the second and third cuts, another along the owerflafh°ft he Ta’nasset%1 to ,wlthin an inch of the base of the lower jaw; ancfthis thin ? P h t“rDer ?°Wn; ■ He then commenced with a chisel and mallet cutting through the inh margm,?f the orbit near the suture connecting the malar and frontal bones into e spheno-maxillary fissure; and next cut through the zygomatic process of the malar bone. The maxillary bone being thus freed externally, he placed^ very broad dfisel £ °f,t,he T’ and carriedit through the lachryma7bone and the nasalTvPne r e ethmo,d >' and ln the same way detached the corresponding part of the no^ tn tv, C tmg away Wlth,a bistoury all the soft parts connecting the wing of the Upp,er jaT’h6 Preceded to separate the two superior maxillary bones, which i ^-ly a?d quickly having drawn the first left incisive tooth, by introducing t uot d'rectly from before backwards, but by wriggling it through the moutlf df^tro4t0 detaCh ^ maXlUa,ry bone from the Pterygoid processes of the sphenoid and to £ y anyt connexions with the back of the ethmoid still remaining, he tW the rtrtaxHlarv nZ™’ Ftl* h oWi**,y in the orbit> «> «s to cut tL^h tEupe- to foTm n llLr Wb,,ch bc was1a,nxlous not to drag, and to push it sufficiently deep a lever, so as that he could turn the tumour down into the mouth ' Thil answered very well, and he had then only to divide with curved scissors and liietn the attachments of the bone to the soft palate, so as to leave the latter unharmed The 2849. Cutting away the diseased jaw is now effected by means of Rev’s thif"Lo'or’,in difrl ",ays’. accordi'>"» 3 ^ the alveolar nrnL P7 0n/^ tl,e UpPer Jaw’ with its broad base towards ther are t 1 > * T* ^V,e 10 reiy>oved, two /\ shaped cuts united toge- “ eHini l,e de I 6 saw.’ i"oludin« •« ‘he diseased part. If the necteri at the iim,er n vertIcal c,,‘ must be made on each side, eon- Sfaed LTec P ‘the'a^ronird 0111 7!!' U”ll"410r ‘h* div1diewtlf ZlhSeTaad hrem0Ved’ the «"» -11 "f ‘he orbi? ,m«t’ be bonp wifi fi , C ,a.n hammer, near the suture connecting the clieek- bone with the outer orbitar process of the frontal bone, so that the chfsel («) Above cited.998 OF RESECTION should penetrate into the spheno-maxillary fissure, and afterwards ^ the zygomatic process of the cheek-bone is tube divided in like manner, ilie up'per jaw-bone having been thus separated on the outside, a very broad chisel is placed below the inner corner of the eye, and held in such direc- tion that when struck with the hammer, it passes through the lower part of the os unguis and the orbitar plate of the ethmoid bone. T he ascending nasal process of the jaw-bone corresponding to the nose-bone, is to be separated in the same manner; and all the soft parts connecting the wing of the nose to the upper jaw are now to be cut through, i he incisive teeth of the affected side are now to be inclined outwards, and whilst the chisel is entered between the two upper maxillary bones, not directly from before backwards, but obliquely from the mouth, their separation is very quickly and easily effected. Lastly, to separate the jaw-bone from the pteryo-oid process, and any still remaining connexions with the ethmoid bone behind, the chisel must be passed from the orbit obliquely downwards to loosen everything which has firm adhesion, and by leverhke movements, to push down the separated bone into the mouth. Nothing more remains but to cut through the attachment of the palate-bone to the soft pala e, either with the curved scissors or with the bistoury, in such way that the j latter may still remain connected with the pterygoid process, and with its other side. When the upper jaw-bone has been removed, there is a large cavity bounded on the inside by the mucous membrane of the septum narium, above and before by the lower straight muscle of the eye, by fat and cellular tissue, the outside by the cellular tissue beneath the m. buc- cinator, and behind by that part of the throat above the soft palate. all the soft parts from the swelling to the inner comets of the ej I fray’s S- twenty-six* united the wound. „ • • ,i,0 Jaw-bone are the most [Symk’s (b) directions for performing excision of die upper ja incisi0r,s simple, and will not be found less convenient than any other. He sa directly should be made through the cheek, one extending from the inner ang qjj :ind disease is to De be involved, and it is necessary to remove separated decided upon. 1ft straight tooth-forceps, a full-sized bistourv copper^ s^tul^^ow^rfo^sm^rs, a^ry|j^c^ps^^^needles^for pprPapsf some (a) Chlrurgische und Augenkrnnken-Klinikum der Universitat Erlangen, p. 81. • (h) Principles of Surgery, (c) Practical Surgery. Third Edition-OF THE UPPER JAW. 999 from its anterior attachment. The proceeding is not to be dreaded on account of its extent; indeed, removal of the superior maxilla alone is the more troublesome. Sup- posing that the more extensive extirpation is required, incisions must be made so as to expose freely the tumour and bones where it is proposed to cut them. First of all, one of the central incisors must be extracted, either the one on the affected side or the other, according to the extent of the tumour. I have been obliged to remove a considerable portion of the jaw opposite to that principally affected; and in that case one of the molares was removed, in order to admit of the division of the bones. The point of the bistoury is entered over the external angular process of the frontal bone, is carried down through the cheek to the corner of the mouth, and is guided by the fore and middle fingers of the one or other hand, as may be, placed in the cavity. A second incision made alon°- and down to the zygoma falls into the other. Then the knife is pushed through the integument to the nasal process of the maxilla, the cartilage of the ala is detached from the bone, and the lip is cut through in the mesial line. The flap thus formed is quickly dissected up and held by an assistant; the attachment of the soft parts to the floor of the orbit, the inferior oblique muscle, the infra-orbital nerve, &c., are cut, and the contents of the cavity supported and protected by a narrow bent copper spatula.” (pp. 311, 12.) Or the flap may be formed in the following way with less extensive cuts. “The in- cisions were commenced at the inner canthus of the eye, carried by the side of and close to the ala of the nose, along the margin of the nostril, and then through the upper lip exactly in the middle line. Another incision was made from the commencement of the first, in a curved form, along the lower margin of the orbit, and, of course, in the direction of the fibres of the orbicularis palpebrarum. The flap thus formed was by (pSS314°)n’ tU™ed outwards and held by an assistant until the processes were cut.’’ Fergusson's (a) directions for making the skin-flap are, “ that an incision should be made from the margin of the upper lip towards the nostril, and then from the ala, as nigh as within half-an-inch of the inner canthus of the eyelids; next the cheek should be laid open from the angle of the mouth (or near it) as far as the zygomatic process of the malar bone, and, if necessary, an incision at right angles with this one should ex- tend from the external angular process of the frontal bone, towards the neck of the lower jaw; now the flap between the nose and the wound in the cheek should be dis- sected irom oft the tumour, and turned upwards on the brow; then that portion of the cheek below and behind the wound should be turned downwards, and the mucous membrane divided, so as to expose freely the interior of the mouth.” (p. 548 ) Cases may certainly occur in which the use of chisel and hammer may be neces- sary, but they cause great jarring and should not be used by choice, more especially as m general the detachment of the jaw can be most quickly and conveniently made cutting pliers, or nippers, and strong scissors, as recommended by Syme and Liston’ The former directs that “one blade of a large pair of cutting pliers be introduced Tni'v'i!'6 T6’ “i?6 °t ler mt0 the orblt’ so as t0 divide the nasal process of the maxillary bone. The connexion with the malar bone is next separated in the same way, and then the palate, previous to which one of the incisor teeth must be extracted if necessary The Surgeon haying now deprived the bone of all its principal attach- ments, wrenches it out either with his hands or strong forceps.” (p 487 ) Liston's proceeding is nearly the same. “ With the cutting forceps the zy-o.nat c m^h the ^ KtS0”,1”' l>~k, Om following account of the^ace'‘rising6™'a Vevef ? ‘th ft" enfl°rmous growth^onlpl^eTy Ucujfed o"£ at;1000 OF RESECTION little trace of the prominence of that organ. Still there was no difficulty of swallow- ing, and. the patient seemed to breathe without inconvenience, through the right nares. That portion of the tumour which protruded through the mouth was of a bright red colour, and covered with mucous membrane, having at its upper part the canine, and two incisors of its own side, with the central incisor of the opposite maxilla sticking out of it. The dimensions of this mass were as follows :—From the part near the ear to the most prominent part which protruded from the mouth, exactly twelve inches, and from that part which bulged below the inferior maxilla to the edge of the orbit, about ten inches. It looked, as near as may be, equal in size to the patient’s head. * * * The principal source of pain to the patient seemed to be, from distension and pressure on the surrounding parts.” (pp. 70, 71.) Notwithstanding its large size, the tumour seems to have been removed without much difficulty, the zygoma having been first cut through, and afterwards the malar bone into the spheno-maxillary fissure, with Liston’s bone- nippers. The orbitar process of the superior maxillary bone and the nerve were next cut through with a strong knife, and afterwards the nasal process of the bone. The second incisive tooth on the opposite side having been drawn, the extent of the disease requiring it, the alveolar process and hard palate, as far back as the palatal process of the palate-hone, were then cut through with the bone-nippers,” and now all the strong attachments of the tumour being completely severed, he had no difficulty in removing that mass, carefully separating with the knife the palatal process of the superior maxilla from the palatal process of the palate-hone, so as to preserve the soft palate from injury. The tumour weighed four pounds, it was nearly globular in form, having at its inferior surface a deep groove into which the lower jaw sunk, and the teeth before mentioned projecting from its anterior upper part.” (pp. 73, 74.) The patient did not lose more than eight or nine ounces of blood, no ligatures were required, and a few minutes after the tumour was removed, all bleeding ceased. “ The mouth remained as wide apart after the operation as before the tumour that distended it was removed ; he appeared to have lost the power over the muscles that raise the lower jaw.” (p. 78.) This, how- ever, was gradually recovered, and on the eleventh day “the mouth was nearly as small as it ever could have been.” (p. 79.) The patient completely recovered. Hetling (a) of Bristol, relates a case of Osteosarcoma, or rather, as he says, it should he more properly called, from its true character, medullary sarcoma of both jaws, in a woman of twenty-three, upon whom he operated, removing part of the upper jaw, and part of the lower jaw, which latter he exarticulated. “ The tumour extended from the upper to the lower jaw,.to the latter of which it adhered so firmly, as to render it com- pletely immovable, so that the patient could not masticate, and could scarcely articu- late, being only enabled to answer questions put to her, by indistinctly mumbling < yes,’ or ‘ no.’ In this state she was compelled to live upon fluids, and even these were with difficulty swallowed, deglutition being much impeded by the pressure of the tumour upon the internal part of the mouth.” (p. 279.) The operation consisted in makin nr a crucial cut through the cheek from the mouth to the lobe of the ear, and from, the infraorbital- edge to the angle of the jaw, turning up the flaps and exposing the diseased mass. “ the base of the tumour was found to occupy the palatine and maxillary portion of the upper jaw, and in its extensive growth, its head had been forced down and attached to the ridge of the lower jaw, nearly as far as the symphysis, extending along the whole of the alveolar border, nearly in a horizontal line from the mental foramen to the condyloid process, the whole of which portion was discovered to be eit ier absorbed or in a state of caries, from the long-continued pressure of the tumour. ; fact the tumour had so worked its way across the lower jaw, both inwards and out" 3™^ that it was found buried in its substance, and, consequently, absorption of its bodi ia been going on for some time on both sides of the bone. The substance of the tumou •was next separated by the knife and fingers, from its base and adhesions. When this ; vestige orbit was left uninjured orou was leu uninjuieu. With the assistance of Liston’s hone-cutter, small saws, &£» every portion of diseased bone was taken away that could he safely removed, and general surface scraped as carefully as possible with the knife, it being intended, hnai£ to apply the actual cautery over the whole plane of the diseased bone. 1Ia',,n/nc plished this tedious and difficult part oftlie operation, ample room was found f«r P tating the lower jaw at the articulation; canes having extended as tefore stated, near the symphysis along the whole of the upper margin to the joint. This exte (n) Transactions of the ProvinciiilMedical and Surgical Association, vol. i. London, 1833. 8™. 41001 OF THE UPPER JAW. line of bone was then sawed off, except the condyloid process, which was' afterwards easily disarticulated and removed with Liston’s bone-cutter, having first divided the* fore part of its capsule, and also the temporal muscle from the coronoid' process”. (pp. 284, 85.) There was no bleeding of consequence, and the actual cautery was not applied. The flaps were brought together with sutures ; on the fourth day the external wound had united, and in course of a fortnight, she Walked about the ward. She left seven weeks after the operation, restored to a healthy appearance. This operation did not ultimately succeed, for Hktling states, “that the disease returned some time after the patient left the Infirmary, that she languished for about a twelvemonth, and died.” (p. 336.) This result is what usually happens in these cases of fungoid tumours of the jaw, if the whole of the bones affected, cannot be, or are not, removed by the operation. And Liston has justly observed :—“ If anything is to be done, it ought to be undertaken with a thorough determination to go beyond the limits of the morbid growth, to remove the cavity which holds it, and thus get quit, if possible, of all the tissues implicated, or which may have become disposed to assume a similar action. I know from experience, that this step, if adopted in time, may prove successful; and though at least a doubtful and very severe proceeding, not by any means unattended with danger, it is the only remedy. Let it be borne in mind, that it is only in the very earliest stage that any benefit can accrue even from the thorough extirpation; very generally the case is not presented until much too late, to one who understands the nature of the malady, who is capable of undertaking its treatment, and who has courage to propose and perform what is necessary. After theparietes have given way, and the growth has appeared in the nostril or cheek, the case is hopeless ; and the patient, as, of old, were those who ven- tured on the ocean, may be numbered with the dead.” (p. 307.)] 2850. After the wound has been properly cleansed, every spoutin°- vessel must be tied or twisted, the parenchymatous bleeding stanched with cold water, or with the actual cautery, the application of which may be necessary to destroy any remaining diseased part, the edges of the wound brought together and closed with the interrupted or with the twisted suture, and the interspaces with strips of sticking plaster. Filling up the cavity with lint is injurious, but laying in some pieces of German tinder convenient, as when suppuration comes on, it easily and completely separates. 2851. The after-treatment must be conducted according to the o-eneral rule. The dangers to be dreaded are violent inflammation, which may extend down the throat and to the brain ; nervous symptoms ; ill-conditioned copious suppuration, to contend with which frequent washing the mouth with warm water or any slightly aromatic infusion are most proper, at the same time supporting the strength ; after-bleeding, for which com- pression with German tinder must be made, which I employed in two cases with success; necrosis of the cut surfaces, which require purifying- washes for the mouth, and the ultimate removal of the separated pieces o'f bone; fungous granulations, which may be touched with caustic or with the actual cautery. If the disease recur, it depends upon the previous extent of the resection and the other conditions of the patient whether any repetition of the operation should be undertaken. Palsy of the face diminishes and ge- nerally after a time ceases. Upon this subject may be consulted also, Chelius ; in Heidelb. klinisch. Annalen. Guthrie; in London Medical Gazette, vol. xvii. p. 315. 1835. Blandin ; in Gazette Medicale de Paris, vol. ii. p. 344. 1834. t^?S2,ANH’ UDtersuchungen Uber krankhafte Zustiinde der Oberkieferhohle. Dor-[ 1002 ] II.—Or Resection of the Blade-bone. von Walther: in his Journal fur Chirurgie uud Augenheilkunde, vol. v. p. 271. Haymann ; in the same, p. 569. 2852. The practicability of this operation von Walther rested on his experiments upon the dead body. The blade-bone is laid bare by a crucial cut through the skin, forming flaps by turning it back, but leaving the muscles on the hinder surface of the bone; the insertions of the muscles are cut oft close to the outer and inner edge of the bone, which is then sawn through transversely immediately below the spine, so that the upper angle and all the parts above the spine remain; lastly, the subscapular muscle is separated and the muscles generally on the front of the bone, which can be done with the handle of the knife. The trunk of the sub- scapular artery is not in this way injured. 2853. Haymann performed this operation successfully on account of a tumour attached to the blade-bone. He laid it bare with two large semi- lunar cuts through the skin and tendinous expansion, and cut it away with some quick strokes of the knife ; the bone was then sawn obliquely through the spine, so that only the glenoid cavity and the parts above the spine remained. After the cure the upper arm could be moved in most directions, its elevation alone was interfered with. Liston (1), Janson (2), Luke (3), Syme (4), Wutzer, and Textor have performed this operation (5). [(1) Liston (a) removed in 1819 about three-fourths of the scapula, leaving only the glenoid cavity, processes, and half of its spine. It had been at first intended to remove “ a very large, hard, inelastic tumour, firmly attached to the bone, and extending from its spine over all the lower surface of the bonebut on attempting to detach it from the spine, “ the knife and fingers suddenly slipped into its substance. This was attended with a profuse gush of florid blood, with coagula.” Liston then considered it necessary to remove the portion of bone above mentioned. The disease seemed to have been medullary sarcoma. The disease, however, recurred, and the patient died. (2) Janson (b) removed a large portion of the blade-bone which was involved in a tumour, but left the glenoid cavity. (3) Luke’s (c) operation in October, 1828, was for a medullary sarcomatous tumour, occupying the whole of the infraspinate pit of the blade-bone, and protruding from the subscapular-pit deeply into the arm-pit. The patient was a girl of fourteen, and had only noticed the swelling about six weeks. He “ made an incision through the skin, beginning at the axilla, and extending it along the axillary margin of the tumour and anterior costa, and then with a sweep around the inferior angle to within a short dis- tance of the spine of the scapula. He extended a second incision from the commence- ment to the termination of the first, along the lower margin of the spine; also through the skin, which being drawn upwards, exposed the spine and adjoining muscles. The muscles lying over the supra and infra spinal fossa were next divided in the direction which he proposed to saw through the bone. * * * By grasping the tumour and inferior angle in his left hand, the scapula was steadied whilst he sawed it through in a direction from a little behind the glenoid cavity to a little above the superior angle, which latter was therefore removed, the spine being sawn through near to the root of the acromion.” (p. 237.) The soft parts were then carefully separated from the tumour, which was detached with about three-fourths of the scapula. The bleed- ing was free, particularly in the neighbourhood of the armpit, where the axillary ves- sels and nerves were exposed. Twenty or thirty arteries were tied, and about a pint or a pint and a half of blood was lost; but the girl did not faint. The edges of the wound were brought together with straps of sticking plaster, the arm secured with a bandage to the side and the fore-arm put in a sling. In about two months the wound had healed completely. Eleven months after the operation, “ the motions of the arm for- ward and backward were perfect, and in fact more than ordinary, the limb moving with („) Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal, (b) Mai.oaigne, Mcdecine Operatoire, p. -- <>• vol. xvi. p. GG and p. 215.—Elements of Surgery, (<■) London Medical Gazette, vol. v. 13J0. p. 100. Second Edition.RESECTION OF THE COLLAR-BONE. 1003 more than usual pliancy, but yet there was considerable power. She can also perform the actions of rotation outwards and inwards. The elevation of the arm from the side cannot be easily accomplished, and requires the aid of the opposite hand to raise it to a horizontal level. She possesses considerable power, and can lift with ease moderately heavy substances.” (p. 239.) , (4) The operation of Syme’s (a) here alluded to, like Liston s, sprung out of another, which was amputation at the shoulder-joint for a fibro-cartilaginous tumour of the upper part of the humerus, having exposed which, he “ easily cut through the acromion process and clavicle, and then depressing the arm, separated its remaining attachments. It now appeared that a fibrous anchylosis had existed between the glenoid cavity and the tumour, which had a cup-like form, and embraced it on all sides, He therefore sawed through the neck of the scapula, and removed a portion of the bone, including the coracoid process.” , , . .. , , , (5) Travers in July, 1838, removed all the blade-bone immediately below its spine, for a large medullary sarcomatous tumour occupying the whole infraspinate pit. He first cut through the skin from the upper to the lower angle, and next from the root of the acromion, along the inferior costa to the beginning of the first cut. He then turned up the flap of skin to rather above the spine of the bone; detached the rhomboid muscles from its base and the in. teretes and latissimus dorsi from the inferior costa and arnde, and next made a cut immediately beneath the whole length of the spine down to th° bone, in doing which a large gush of bloody fluid, as in Liston’s case, followed. The base of the bone first, and afterwards the inferior costa, were sawn through with a narrow saw ; and it was then attempted to cut across the bone with cutting nippers, but this failing it was sawn through without difficulty, close to the spine. The bleeding was severe, and he was much exhausted, but only seven vessels were tied. The flap was laid down and fixed with two sutures and straps of sticking plaster. The wound healed kindly in about three weeks; but three months after the operation, a small tumour of the same kind appeared in the scar, and soon after another on the side of the chest. These gradually increased, burst, and threw out bleeding fungous growths ; but he lingered a long while, and died just twelve months after the operation. HI.—Of Resection of the Collar-bone. 2854. Resection of the collar-bone, which may be indicated in commi- nuted fracture, if the sharp ends of the fracture thrust outwards or injury to the vessels or nerves be feared, in caries and necrosis, and bony tumours, requires, according to the different states of the soft parts, a transverse cut aloim the bone, from the two ends of which a small vertical cut must be made” or two elliptical cuts, including the diseased part; or for a very large swelling a crucial cut. The bone is then carefully separated from the” soft parts, the knife being always kept close to it; a spatula or a leather strap is thrust beneath the bone, which is then cut through with Hf.y’s saw or with the osteotome. The edges of the wound are brought together with sticking plaster, lint and compresses put over it, and the arm supported with Desault’s or Boyer’s fractured clavicle apparatus. In the total removal of the collar-bone, which Cuming (b) performed after ampu- tation at the shoulder-joint, and removal of the blade-bone in consequence of a crush hy a gunshot-wound, Meyer (c) and Roux (d), on account of caries, Warren (e) and Mott (f) for osteosarcoma, a cut was made along the collar-bone, and brought down a little below each end, at which a vertical cut about two inches long was made, tlie flaps turned back and the bone laid bare. The acromial end was then disjointed, the bone raised up and separated by disjointing its sternal end. (Travers (y) operated on a boy of ten years old, who, in consequence of a fall which probably broke the collar-bone without rupturing the periosteum, had large effusions of (а) Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal, vol. xlvi. p. 219. 1896. (б) London Medical Gazette, vol. v. p. 273. 1830. (c) voj» Graeve und von Walther’b Journal, vol. xix. p. 17. (d) Bulletin general de Therap., vol. vi. livr. 8. (e) American Journal of Medical Science, vol. xiii. p. 17. 1833. (/) Amoricnn Journal of the Medical Sciences vol. iii. p. 100. 18->8. (</) Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. xxi. 1838.1004 RESECTION OF THE BLADE-BONE AND COLLAR-BONE. blood within it, which formed a tumour that by degrees involved and destroyed nearly t e whole bone, except at its sternal end. He made “ a crucial incision through the integument and platysma myoides, one limb of which was nearly in the line of the c avicle, and the other at right angles ; and the flaps and fascial coverings successively issected down to the external basis of the tumour. The pectoralis and deltoid muscles 6n careful|y detached from their clavicular origin, avoiding the cephalic vein, and the fibres of the trapezius and cleido-mastoid muscles divided on a director. One considerable vessel, in the situation of the transversalis humeri, required a prompt liga- tui e. The circumference of the tumour was now well defined, though it was found to be firmly imbedded and adherent on its posterior aspect. Disarticulation of the scapular extiemity of the bone was next effected without difficulty, and the mobility thus com- municated to the mass facilitated the completion of the operation. A director was now worked beneath the bone, as near to the sternal articulation as was practicable, and with a pair of strong bone-nippers thus introduced, it was completely and clearly divided. The subclavius muscle and a part of the rhomboid ligament were now detached from the tumour, and the mass being well raised by an assistant, while the edges of the wound were kept wide apart by metallic retractors, the cervical prolongations of the tumour were separated from their remaining connections by a few touches of the scalpel, with- out injury to the subclavian vessels, (pp. 137, 38.) A twelvemonth after, the boy had the full and free use of the arm.” (p. 147.)] Mott gives the following account of his removal of the collar-bone:—“ The inci- sion extended from the articulation at the sternum to the top of the shoulder, in a semi- circular direction ; below, the dissection, to get under the tumour, was on a line with the fourth rib; above, in a direction to the top of the shoulder, an inch below the thy- roid cartilage and base of the jaw, and terminated at the same point with the first. The tumour of a bony character, was in contact with the coracoid process, insomuch that I was obliged to saw it through near the acromion scapula. Below, the vein was imbedded in the tumour, from the coracoid process to the scalenus anticus. Then my attention was directed to separating the tumour from the deep-seated fascia of the neck, to pro- tect the deep-seated jugular and thoracic duct, the operation being on the left shoulder.” “ This operation far surpassed in tediousness, difficulty", and danger, anything which I have ever witnessed or performed. It is impossible for any description which we are capable of giving, to convey an accurate idea of its formidable nature. The attach- ment of the morbid mass to the important structures of the neck and shoulder of the left side, is sufficient to indicate its magnitude and difficulty.” So arduous was the task of separating the diseased clavicle from the vessels and thoracic duct, that he was at one time, he said, almost inclined to doubt the possibility of accomplishing his purpose (a). The operation lasted four hours, and thirty vessels were tied. The tumour, when separated, was the size of two fists. Chaumet (6) of Bordeaux removed four-fifths of the clavicle, on account of a tumour originating from it.] [IV.—Resection of Blade-bone and Collar-bone together. This formidable operation was successfully undertaken by Musset, of Cincinnati, who has published an interesting account of it (c). In 1818 a patient consulted him about a tumour connected with the thumb, for which the first metacarpal bone was removed. Several years later, pain attacked the humerus, which became greatly enlarged, and in 1831 the arm was amputated at the shoulder-joint. In 1836 the same disease appeared in the shoulder, and accordingly Musset undertook the com- plete removal of the scapula and clavicle in September, 1837. “The tumour was round and prominent, measuring horizontally over the sum- mit, from the anterior to the posterior margin of its base, 14 inches, and vertically, from the upper to the lower margin of its base, 10 inches.” The integuments were dissected away from the clavicle, that bone dis- jointed from the sternum, its sternal extremity elevated and detached from the subclavius muscle, so as to admit of the finger of an assistant (n) American Journal of (lie Medical Sciences, (r) American Journal of the Medical Sciences* vol. ii. p. 482. 1828. vol. xxi. p. 390. 1837. (6) Gaz Med. de Paris, vol. i. p. 209. 1846.RESECTION OF THE BLADE-BONE AND COLLAR-BONE. 1005 being passed under it to secure the subclavian artery. The subsequent steps of the operation consisted in “ plain, coarse, and sometimes rapid dissection.” Having tied the subclavian artery, Mussey divided the accompanying vein, when a bubble of air passed into the latter, which caused the patient instantly to swoon, and he was roused with much difficulty from this state of collapse. “ The immense wound, with flaps of seven or eight inches in extent, united by adhesion, and became con- solidated and .sound, literally without the formation of a teaspoonful of pus. In less than three weeks the patient was dismissed, and he rode home in a stage-coach between thirty and forty miles, and remained sound and well in November.” In 1841, Rigaud (a) of Strasburg, amputated a man’s arm at the shoulder-joint for disease of the humerus. The man recovered, and remained well for eight months ’ A tumour was then found growing from the scupula, and Rigaud removed the whole of this bone, together with the outer extremity of the clavicle, in 1842. In two months the parts were healed, and the man remained well in July, 1844. M'Clellan, of Philadelphia, removed the scapula and clavicle from a boy The patient recovered after the operation, but died from a return of the malignant disease in another part. Dr. Blackman, of New York, informs me, that Gilbert, of Philadelphia, has recently removed the scapula and clavicle, but I have not been able to ascertain the particulars of the operation. 1 I am specially obliged to my friend Fergusson for the following short account of the removal of the whole scapula and part of the clavicle, which he has this day (February 6 1847) performed on a man aged thirty-three, who had his right arm amputated about * v^ei7-ears a£° *or car^es tk0 shoulder-joint. The humerus was extensively diseased which is presumed to have been the reason for amputating; and the glenoid cavity being also affected, was removed at the same time, but either not sufficiently, or else there had been subsequent extension of the disease. Ten or twelve fistulous openings communi- cated from the surface with the carious bone, which seemed to be so extensively diseased that Fergusson considered it best to remove the whole bone. An incision was made beginning an inch and a half from the sternal end of the clavicle, along that bone to the acromion; room was thus made to apply a saw to the middle of the bone. An incision was next made in the course of the spine of the scapula, nearly to the base The first cut was then extended down into the axilla. The posterior flaps were now partially dis- sected ofl the thickened mass covering the scapula; the anterior next raised then the m.pectoralis minor, next the m. trapezius were cut through, and the bone, being forcibly pu led outwards, was soon severed by the division of the other muscles and tissues The anterior attachment of the trapezius had been in part divided when making wav for the saw on the clavicle. The axillary vessel was not obliterated, but spirted^freely when the finger was taken off the sub-clavian on the first rib, where it had been compressed - during the operation not more than four ounces of blood were lost. There was no eWlr’ and no pain, for the patient was under the influence of ether during the whole time going mi aWarC that thC °Peratlon was actually done, though he fancied it was Gaetani Bey (6), in the case of a boy fourteen years old whn Lori „„ , wounded in the shoulder by the discharge of an old piece of artillery, which exploded hilst remeltmg, amputated at the shoulder joint, removed the whole hWiZi 2? ttss nit EE,Mki*,he SSS'ife™^0ir„dt jA”“ (d> reco* »^Milar th.ul of the clavicle a Inch projected from the wound, and tied the t") American Journal of the Medical Sciences 1KTI; p. ol2. I have not been able to consult the original report. (6) Annali Universal! di Medicina, vol. xcviii. (e) Lancet. p.' 28fi.13bii7L°nd0n MctliCiU Gazette> vol. xxxi. (>:) Philosophical Transactions, vol. xl. 1741. 1832-p 114 Medical Gtucttc> vol. v. p, 497. 1830.1006 RESECTION OF THE RIBS. In a patient of Lizars’s (a), the outer half of the clavicle was torn away, as well as the arm and scapula; a ligature was placed on the subclavian artery, which had bled but little, and the patient rapidly recovered. A similar case did equally well under the care of Cartwright (6). V.—Of Resection of the Ribs. 2855. Resection of the ribs, which has often been performed for in- curable disease restricted to the bone, as in caries and bony tumours, (Percy, Cittadini, Richerand, Milton, Antony, Mott, Clot- Bey, Jaeger, Textor,) requires the rib to be laid bare by a longitu- dinal or transverse cut; the intercostal muscles are then divided by a cut first at their upper and afterwards at their lower edge close to the bone, and the intercostal artery tied if it bleed. The pleura is then separated with a blunt needle and the rib cut off with an osteotome, which, in con- sequence of its sheath, best ensures the pleura from wound. The wound is to be lightly filled with lint or German tinder, and treated in the usual way. Iu compound comminuted fractures of the ribs, the removal of the ends of the bone with the saw may be necessary; though here the greatest caution is always requisite to avoid injuring the pleura, which is closely connected with the rib, whilst in caries the pleura is generally thickened, and in part also separated from the rib. In a case where about an inch-and-a-half of the ninth rib had been removed, Tex- tor found a mass of new bone at the place where the removal had been made, although caries had extended backwards to a considerable extent, the whole of the diseased part not having been completely removed. [Warren (c) removed, in January, 1836, a large, hard, immovable tumour, with a fistulous opening, and situated on the junction of the sixth and seventh ribs with their cartilages, which had existed about four years. He made an oblique cut over the swelling, and at each end of it another at right angles, so as to form two quadrilateral flaps which being turned back, a firm cartilaginous substance was exposed, that had destroyed the natural appearance of the parts. This was removed, partly by shaving off with the scalpel, partly by bits with the cutting forceps, and both ribs were then found carious. These were carefully detached by a probe from the pleura, which was much thickened, and from the diaphragm, and three inches of the seventh rib with its cartilages, with two inches of the sixth, were removed by the chain saw and cutting forceps There was little bleeding, the intercostal arteries having been obliterated in the course of the disease. He recovered. Warren also removed in March, 1837, an osteosarcomatous tumour, circular, above six inches in diameter,tand three in height, covering parts of the seventh, eighth, ninth, and tenth ribs, attached to all, but most firmly to the ninth. It had been growing six years. A T cut 'vas made through the skin, and the flaps having been turned back, the insertions of the external oblique muscle were exposed and dissected off, as was also the m. latissimus dorsi, which latter was divided with some difficulty, and excessive pain. The tumour then found originating from the ninth, but firmly connected with the seventh, eighth, and tenth ribs, was then cut off from the former about an inch distant from its junction with its cartilage. 1 he intercostals were then cut through, the diaphragm carefully separated from the nb and pleura, a director passed under t\\e points where the rib was to be divided, and this done with cutting forceps, removing about two inches of the bone, and a part of its cartilage ; upon which the diaphragm immediately rose up like a hernia. There was little bleeding, „i,fi no vessel reauired tying. This case did well. DiMN(d)rmoved the cartilage of the tenth rib of the leftside, which had been broken off two years previously, and from a few weeks after had caused severe neuralgia. at first in the part and then over the region of the stomach, and had become almost un- bearable A careful dissection exposed the cartilage unattached; it was easily removed, the pain immediately ceased, and the patient completely recovered in the course of a week. (n) Fergtisson’s Practical Surgery, p. 235. ((,) Ferguas°n,^p.)235.^ ^ Quarterly Journal, No. I.-Lancct. 13J9-40; p. 137. (r) lloston Medical and Surgical Journal. 183»« —Lancet. 1837-38; vol. ii. p. 606.1007 RESECTION OF THE FIBULA. In a case of necrosis of the fifth rib, of which Roux (a) removed with the chain saw, four inches, a collection of matter was found between it and the pleura, not, however communicating with the cavity of the chest. Within a few days, respiration became oppressed. He was attacked with symptoms of pleuritis on the right side, and died. On examination, the right cavity of the chest was found to contain a considerable quantity or purulent serum, with albuminous flakes of recent formation. The lungs were filled with softened tubercles as might be expected, the patient having been much emaciated, and coughed much, with copious expectoration, previous to the operation.] V.—Kesection of the Fibula. [2855*. Resection, or Extraction of the Fibula, was proposed by De- sault, but has been, however, only recently performed by Seutin (f). He detached the muscles from the bone, then applied the crown of a trephine below its head, slipped a narrow ribbon between the bone and the muscles on its inner side, down to the outer malleolus, and cut it off with a curved saw. Malgaigne removed the upper third of the fibula and exarticulated it; but care was necessary to avoid injuring the anterior tibial nerve as it passed round the neck of the bone.] ' nno'! account of the several resections in the contiguity and contmuity of the bones, it may be easily determined which mode of prac- tice shall be pursued in the partial resection of some bones, to wit the radius, ulna, tibia, fibula, metacarpus and metatarsus, and so on’- as also in the entire extirpation of single bones. ’ For a careful collection of the cases hereto belonging, see Jaeger, Handworterbuch der Chirurgie, Article Resectio ossium, vol. v. Kreitmair, Darstellung des Ergebnisses der im konigl Julius Snitale w burg seit 1821 angestellten Resectionen. Wiirzb., 1839. P ta e U Wurz" Schirlinger, Beitrag zur Casuistik der Resectionen. Wiirzb., 1841. Postscript. [The year 1846 seems in a fair way to be known as the Annus Mirabilis of Surm™ The profession and the public in both hemispheres are in a luIIpZ Surgery, quent on the discovery by Morton, an American dentist of a i c ' ra<rriti. c°nse- sensibility, during which an operation may be borne without pain nay6'even' ivndp-^ agreeable as to induce a desire for its renetition Thic cnf rendered so in inhaling the vapour of ether till tKiSn'i, agal?st P^n, consists operations. He, therefore, on / rSI? , 1 m niore s?rious Surgical ethereal influence, made “ an incision near kp tLp^-1^ PfUt a pati?nt under the During the operation the patient muttered as n , I JaW °f S0II,e 1,lches in extent, stated that the pain was considerable thoughmiriSi'■C0.nsc'?us state> and afterwards the skin had been scratched with a hoe Th "' t g‘Ued > ln }lls .own words, as though defect i„ the proce„„f i„halali„„,f„;”n teftltariS‘',iS to another patient with complete success A f-ittv *c P?Vr was administered ntoved h, Dr. theS (a) Journal ...i .. ... !5Ul. * “G vii- p‘ 290- A^mtiZNKimdec>ne 0piraloite- p- 24°- VOI xvUrS m7:,0Ur"al ; Cited in Medical 'limesPOSTSCRIPT 1008 operation lasted four or five minutes, during which time the patient betrayed occasional marks of uneasiness, hut upon subsequently regaining her consciousness, professed not only to have felt no pain, but to have been insensible to surrounding objects, to have known nothing of the operation, being only uneasy about a child left at home.” (p. 271.) Two other cases are also mentioned by Bigelow, one of amputation above the knee, the other of removal of a portion of the lower jaw, during both which operations the patients were insensible to pain. An account of this wonderful discovery reached this country on 17th December, 1846, and on the 19th, a young female, having been intoxi- cated by inhaling ether for a minute and a half, had a molar tooth extracted from the lower jaw by Robinson (a). On the same day, Liston (b) amputated the leg of one patient, and twisted off the great toe-nail of another, whilst they were under the influ- ence of ethereal inhalation, and “ neither of the patients knew, when they recovered from their stupor, that the operation had been performed.” (p. 251.) Since this time, the public and medical journals have been teeming with “ painless operations” of all kinds, performed in all parts of the country. That insensibility to pain, consequent on complete intoxication by breathing the fumes of ether, may be produced in many cases, is beyond all doubt; but that this con- . dition will be induced in all instances is certainly untrue. Its failure does not depend, as is asserted, on the inhalation not being properly performed, for ail persons are not alike affected by it, however carefully and perseveringly the ether may be administered. In proof of this, I may select, from among many instances, a case which occurred during the present month, (February, 1847,) at St. Thomas’s Hospital. A man, whose toe-nail was to be twisted off, inhaled ether most assiduously for more than half an hour, without the slightest degree of insensibility being induced ; but it could not be objected that he was not fully subjected to the influence of the medicine, since after twenty hours his breath was still so impregnated with the ether, that it was strongly smelt by persons standing at the foot of his bed. The avidity with which ethereal inhalation has been generally adopted, and appa- rently without consideration of the possibility of its indiscriminate employment being ever attended with danger, is one of the most remarkable circumstances connected with it. But, that it is not unfrequently accompanied,with inconvenient and even dangerous results there can be no doubt. Bigelow, in his paper before the Boston Society, mentions the more or less severe cough, which was immediately induced in several of the cases he relates. In another instance, I have known hcemoptysis and bronchitis induced, in a patient who had previously suffered from hcemoptysis. Morris (c) states of a woman, that “ she did not appear at all timid, and began to inhale the vapour with the greatest confidence; after five or six inspirations she suddenly became deadly pale, and stated that she was suffocating, and refused to continue breathing the ether ; she had scarcely | done speaking before she coughed violently three or four times, the flow of blood to the head was instantaneous; she became quite purple in the face, the temporal veins were much distended, and the arteries throbbed violently ; she was perfectly sensible, and complained of a sense of suffocation, and that she should die. She remained in this state I for five minutes at least, when the face began to assume its natural colour. She was a lone time before she was able to leave the house ; and after she had been at home two hours had a fit, in which she was stiff and insensible for ten minutes. Although up- wards of a fortnight has elapsed since she inhaled the vapour, she is far from recovere , complaining of a great deal of pain and confusion about the head, and oppression at t le chest.” He mentions also, of one boy, that “ after having inhaled for a short time, . instead of depressing him he became furious, called out loudly, and we had grea difficulty in pacifying him;” and of another, that the inhalation “ brought on a mos distressing cough, which continued so long as he breathed the vapour; after a time l B produced precisely the same effects as nitrous oxide; he laughed most heartily, an J looked quite idiotic. After waiting an hour he again tried the vapour, but with t >e lmp results.” (p. 352.) Cotton also states, that in one of his cases “ boisterous, hyste- rical-like spasms followed, as observed by Professor Parker, requiring all the force « the bystanders to hold the patient Further inhalation, however, served to effect the 1 rpouired decree of unconsciousness.” (p. 353.) , It has also happened, that the patient has not recovered so speedily after the remove of the inhaler, as is commonly stated; indeed, it was almost feared lie was dead, an he only revived by pouring quantities of wme down his throat. In this case, the . ceon who operated noticed, that all vital resistance of the tissues had ceased, and that the sensation given by his knife was as if he were cutting into a dead body. (n) Medical Times, vol. xv. p. 273. W Ibid. (e) Ibid.ON PAINLESS OPERATIONS. 1009 I have thought it right to mention these facts, to put practitioners on their guard in the employment of ethereal inhalation, for I feel assured, that unless more cautiously emp oyed than hitherto, it will not be long before many disastrous consequences will r-e?a iKmedlcal. fneud of kgh standing, with whom I had some conversation, in- sisted on the propriety of subjecting the patient to some preliminary trials of the effect of the inhalation before employing it at the time of operating. With this opinion I fidly concur, and I should certainly adopt it, if I made up my mind to try inhalation at all , but upon that point I am not decided, for I have considerable doubt of the propriety of putting a patient into so unnatural a condition as results from inhaling ether, which seems scarcely different from severe intoxication, a state in which no Sous operat?onbe deSn'°US °f having a Patieut who was about to be submitted to a v suSgested> with much appearance of probability, that a far more important SStani eventhe P^ention of pam would arise from the use of ether; that it must SoHW 0 the nervous system generally, and that the after-treatment would be gieatly facilitated by the absence of constitutional irritation. But experience has not confirmed these hopes. A patient who recently underwent an impor™ operation Tank anf Acd -rnitei ^ ra/dit/^d skill while he was quite unconscious, gradually sank, and died m three weeks, although little blood had been lost, and there was no of the amputated limb were unusually severe. F stump SITU118101! I.?a7 observe>. that there are no operations in which the use of ether sf®™st0 1)6 sp decidedly contra-indicated, as in those for the cure of Cataract ■ for wlie end of vot,. rr.. ' * *E R R A T A. Page 176 217 310 498 503 595 612 612 630 636 669 676 725 781 775 VOL. I. Line 12, for caoutchouc, read gelatine. 13, dele and Gonorrhoeal ophthalmia 14, for feather, read spring 20, for except, read as 51, for fish-bone, read whale-bone 8, for Wolf ’s-jaw, read Wolf’s-throat, 16, read habitual costiveness is not 31, dele , where 45, for graph it, read plumbago, 1,/or scarabsei, read scabiei, (e)/or potass. Iod. gr. read potass. Iod. 3ss. 55, point thus, return more readily, make 17, for rosin, read gum, £6, for Upwards, read Downwards 46, for down-lying, read lying-in, VOL. II. 1 8, for intestine, read viscus 20 18, for sore, read sac 79 42, for veins are, read vein is 704 11, for the naked eye, read a magnifying glass, 748 14, after with, insert that part, 751 11, for rose-crown, read rosary 773 42, for plaster, read layer 811 37, for with, read without 861 46, for hips, read lips, 911 9 & 10, point thus, larger quantity, than in the middle where it isLONDON: Printed by William Clowes & Sons, Stamford Street.MR. REN SHAW’S PUBLICATIONS. The Anatomist. By Henry Savage. 48mo. Price 2s. The Ooteines of Botany. By Gilbert Burnett. 250 Wood En- gravmgs. In 8vo. Price 21s. The Nervous System of the IIdman Body. By Sir Charles Bell. 16 Copper-plate Engravings. In 8vo. Price 10s. ()d. Memoranda for Examination at the College of Surgeons By M. N. Bower. 32mo. sewed. Price 3s. (id. On Eruptions of the Face, Head, and Hands. By T. H Burgess, M.D. Coloured Plates, 8vo. Price 14s. * The same Work without Plates. 8vo. cloth. Price 8s On the Epidemic Fevers of Sierra Leone. By Alexander Bryson, M.D. 12mo. cloth. Price 4s. A Dictionary of Practical Surgery. Seventh Edition Bv Samuel Cooper. 8vo. cloth. Price 30s. On the Management and Diseases of Children. By R. T. Evanson, M.D., and II. Maunsell, M.D. Fifth Edition. 8vo. cloth. Price 12s. (3d. Memoranda on the more common Diseases of the Eye By John Foote. 48mo. Price Is. ‘ Froriep on the Application of Electro-Magnetism : trans- lated by Dr. Lawrence. 8vo. cloth. Price 5s. Synopsis of Percussion and Auscultation. By R. C Goldina M.D. 32mo. Price Is. e’ Gray’s Supplement to the Pharmacopceia. Second Edition. By T. Redwood. 8vo. cloth. Price 22s. Elements of the'Theory and Practice of Medicine. By G. Gregory, M.D. Sixth Edition, 8vo. cloth. Price 16s. Lectures on the Eruptive Fevers. By G. Gregory, M.D. 8vo. ■ cloth. Price 7s. 6d. On Treatment of Deafness connected with Enlargement op the Tonsils. By W. Harvey. 8vo. cloth. Price 3s. 6d. On Rheumatism and Gout, as affecting the Head and Ear. By W. Harvey. 8vo. cloth. Price 5s. Hooper’s Medical Dictionary. Eighth Edition. By R. Grant, M.D. 8vo. cloth. Price 30s. On the Principles, Nature, and Treatment of Inflamma- tion. Second Edition. By J. II. James. 8vo. cloth. Price 15s. A History and Description of the various Races of Man. By R. Knox, M.D. Wood Engravings. 8vo. cloth. Price 10s. 6d. On Inflammation of tiie Veins. By Henry Lee. 8vo. cloth. Price 6s. Practical Surgery. By Robert Liston. Fourth Edition. 250 Wood Illustrations. *8vo. cloth. Price 22s. Lectures on Physiology, Zoology, and Natural History of Man. By W. Lawrence, F.R.S. 12 Copper-plates. 8vo. cloth. Price 6s. Laennec on Diseases of the Chest, and on Auscultation. Translated by J. Forbes, M.D. 8vo. boards. Price 18s. Outlines of Human Pathology. By Herbert Mayo, F.R.S. 8vo. cloth. Price 18s.MR. RENSI-IAW’S PUBLICATIONS. ! : l A Treatise on Syphilis. By Herbert Mayo, F.R.S. Svo. clotb. Price 5s. 6il. Anatomical iw PuMiAimicAL Commentaries. By Herbert Mayo, F.R.S. 8vo. clotb. Price 5s. Naegele on Obstetric Auscultation. By C. West M.D. 18mo. cloth. Price 3s. Naegele on Mechanism of Parturition. By E. Rigby M.D. Fcap. boards. Price 5s. On Indigestion and its Consequences. By A. P. W. Philip, M.D. 8vo. boards. Price 6s. 6d. On the Laws of the Vital Functions. By A. P. W. Philip M.D. 8vo. cloth. Price 12s. On the Nature of Sleep and Death. By A. P. W. Philip M.D. 8vo. boards. Price 8s. . On Minute Doses of Mercury. By A. P. W. Philip, M.D. Second Edition. 12mo. boards. Price 3s. 6d. A Treatise on the Obscure Affections of the Brain. Bv A. P. W. Philip, M.D. 12mo. cloth. Price 4s. Memoranda for Young Practitioners in Midwifery. Bv E. Rigby, M.D. 32mo. sewed. Price Is. An Essay on Uterine ILemoriihage. By E. Rigby, M.D. 8vo. boards. Price 7s. On Dysmenorrtkea and other Uterine Affections. By E. Rigby, M.D. 12mo. cloth. Price 6s. Hunter’s Anatomical Description of the Gravid Uterus. By E. Rigby, M.D. 8vo. cloth. Price 6s. A Pinsiological Essay on the Thymus Gland. By John Simon, F.R.S. 4to. cloth. Price 1/. Is. On Mercury', Blue Pill, and Calomel; their Use and Abuse. By G. G. Sigmond, M.D. Fcap. cloth. Price 4s. On the Sources or Physical Science. By A. Smee, F.R.S. Svo. cloth. Price 10s. 6tf. Memoranda on Poisons. By T. H. Tanner, M.D. 32mo. cloth. Price Is. A Treatise on the Venereal Disease and its Varieties. By W. Wallace. Two Copper-plates. 8vo. cloth. Price 12s. rIiiF, Pharmacopoeia of the Royal College of Physicians for 1851. Translated by a Physician. 24mo. sd. Price 2s. 6rf. On Varicose Veins and Varicose Ulcers. By T. W. Nunn. Post 8i’o. cloth. Price 2s. 6d. Inflammation of the Breast, and Milk Abscess. By T. W. Nunn. Post 8vo. cloth. Price 2s. 6r/. Wiblin’s Student’s Guide to -ihe Hospitals and Medical Insti- tutions of Paris. 18mo. cloth. Price 3s. The Anatomy of Suicide. By Forbes Winslow, M.D. 8vo cloth Price 10s. Gd. The Plea of Insanity in Criminal Cases. M.D. 12mo. cloth. Price 3s. 6o'. By Forbes Winslow, Waiid s Practical Observations on Distortions of the Spine Chest, and Limbs. 8vo. cloth. 7s.