CAUSES OP STONE FORMATION. 155 Thompson1 however “ does does know any disease which marks more distinctly or more curiously, its relation with class than this. So common is stone in the children of the poor, comparatively speaking, that at Guy’s Hospital, surrounded as it is by a very large neighborhood, densely populated by some of the worst-nourished classes of the community, quite one-half the cases admitted are children. Among the same classes, however, it is rare at the other end of life, very few elderly working men in London being afflicted with it. On the other hand, among the well-to-do and well-fed, while almost never found in childhood, it is comparatively common in advanced age.” Exercise and fresh air militate against stone formation by thoroughly oxidizing the waste products of the body. Drink and Food.—Alcohol probably will not produce stone without the co-operation of other predisposing agencies. In large cities all over the world, alcohol is consumed freely, but no statistician has ever noted a special pre- valence of stone among dwellers in cities. Much liquor is consumed in Scotland and in Ireland, doubtless as much or more than in England, yet the latter locality is the favorite for stone. Some wines, like the Rhine wines (Soemmering), being charged with bitartrate of potassium, rather check ten- dencies to stone, but sweet fermented wines and malt liquors, which increase the amount of uric acid, undoubtedly favor the formation of acid stone. Food alone cannot materially affect stone formation by its quality. Where the tendency exists, it may be intensified by the nature of the food. Thus in India, Vandyke Carter found oxalate-of-lime nuclei most common in the calculi of the rice-eating natives. But it is not starch as food that causes stone, or the potato-eating Irishman would be prone to stone, which is not the case. Nor is it rice-starch, or the Chinaman would be as constant a stone-producer as the Indian—which again is not the case. In Europe and America, uric-acid stones are the rule, but if a meat diet caused stones, the latter would be much more common in cities, where much meat is consumed, than in the surrounding country where the farmers feed more sparingly on meat—but this again has not been noticed as a fact. Milk diet has been supposed to oppose the tendency to stone; probably this is true, but it is a minor factor. Indigestion again has been accused of causing stone ; but if this were so, surely the disease ought to prevail in jSTew England, where bad teeth and dyspepsia, due to hot bread, pie, and rapid eating, are the rule, and yet where stone is very rare. Constitution.—It is probable that gout and rheumatism increase any tendency which there may be to stone, because these diathetic conditions are usually accompanied by acidity of the urine, with excess of uric acid and urates. A gouty individual leading a sedentary life, drinking freely, and eating highly nitrogenized food, especially if lie has a little dyspepsia, and is con- stantly kept anxious about his business or other matters, is in a fit condition to form stone easily. Such patients not uncommonly pass small uric-acid concretions. Acute Maladies.—Prout, Kletzinsky, and Beale have pointed out the tendency to a deposit of oxalate of lime in cholera patients. Any feverish condition furnishes in the accompanying concentration of the urine one of the factors of stone, and some authorities believe that all renal stones have their origin during a febrile state, perhaps of short duration. Heredity.—As gout is hereditary, so are the tendencies to stone. I have at present under observation a family in which three generations, all living, 1 Clinical Lectures on Disease Qf tlie Urinary Organs, 6th ed., p. 67. 1882.