DESCRIPTION OF THE VARIOUS TYPES OF URINARY CALCULUS. 167 for the most part multiple, showing facets from mutual contact. When single, their shape is not generally symmetrically round or oval, but irregular in some way. These are the stones that grow in a branching manner from Jhe bladder into the prostatic sinus, into the ureters, and into sinuses and sacculi. Quite often, in fusible calculus, the nucleus is not central. This variety of calculus is often light, soft, and mortar-like, crumbling readily under the lithotrite. It breaks into irregular pieces or in laminae, and is more or less hard, according as the triple-phosphate or the phosphate of lime prevails in its composition. So also its structure varies. Some speci- mens are white and structureless, others amorphous and crystalline, and others again laminated, and exhibiting triple-phosphate crystals between the slightly adherent laminae. Urate-of-ammonium calculus, discovered by Fourcroy and Vauquelin in 1798, and described particularly by Front in 1823, is yet a subject of some dis- cussion. Roberts thinks that it may be doubted “whether the calculi de- scribed by Prout as urate-of-ammonium, were really anything more than fawn- colored uric-acid.” Yet observers agree that the urate of ammonium does occasionally occur as a calculus, mainly in the kidneys and bladders of children. It does not reach a large size, and is flattened, oval, smooth, or granular, and slate-gray or clay-colored. Its structure is close and finely laminated, but the laminae are so intimately united that the fracture often looks amorphous. The laminae, however, are easily separable. The stone is brittle and is suit- able for lithotrity. Ammonio-magnestan Phosphate.—This substance, also discovered by Wol- Jaston, in 1797, and commonly called triple phosphate, occurs occasionally as the main constituent of a calculus. It is rare to find it alone, but common as a layer in an alternating calculus, or combined with phosphate of lime in the fusible calculus. Sometimes alone it forms a secondary calculus upon a foreign body as a nucleus (Bryant). Calculi of triple-phosphate are white, unevenly round, rough, and crystalline on the surface, chalky and crystalline in texture, and not laminated. They become dulled in appearance when dry and old. Their bulk varies from a minute size up to that of very large concretions, weighing many ounces. Thompson speaks of one weighing nearly two pounds. They are very friable, and excellent objects for the lithotrite. The mass is made up of stellate, bibasic phosphate, and of neutral, ammonio-magnesian, phosphatic prisms (Wollaston). Phosphate of lime, quite common in combination (alternating and fusible ■calculus) is very rare as the main ingredient of a stone. Wollaston described this substance in 1797. Two forms are mentioned: (1) renal, (2) vesical. The renal phosphate-of-lime calculus is pale-brown, smooth, oval, and small, composed of neutral phosphate of lime2 and made up of loosely united laminae, sometimes showing radial markings. The material is soft and friable, and the laminae easily disconnected. These stones contain a large proportion of animal matter. The neutral phosphate fuses with the blowpipe. The vesical bone-earth phosphatic calculus is very rare. It is a mortar-like substance, semi-crystalline, entangled in a magma of mucus. The basic phosphate of lime is not fusible with the blowpipe. Carbonate-of-Lime Calculus.—This form, although common in herbaceous animals, is rare in man. Carbonate of lime not infrequently occurs as an ingredient in the oxalate-of-lime and in the phosphatic calculus. As the