344 INJURIES AND DISEASES OP THE BLADDER AND PROSTATE. sponsible for the production of this affection. To these and like causes of irri- tation of the urinary reservoir, we must add some of the means which are used for their relief, where certain ill effects unfortunately result from well- intentioned efforts. I refer to the production of cystitis by operative measures, such as the passage of catheters, bougies, sounds, and lithotrites into the bladder; and to the use or abuse of injections in potent forms for the treatment of disorders ot the urethra. Here then we have such a multiplicity of causes of chronic cystitis, that we shall do well never to commence its systematic treatment without feeling that there is a cause to be determined, if success in treatment is to be attained. The mischief produced by this affection is by no means limited to the mucous membrane of the bladder, though this is chiefly involved. The urine becomes loaded with the excessive secretion of the membrane, a condition of alkalinity of the urine is produced, ammonia is generated and evolved, and more remote changes, not only in the bladder but in other organs, follow. These changes have reference principally to the kidney, and to the formation of vesical Calculus. Chronic pyelitis is a by no means uncommon accompani- ment of long-standing cystitis, and there is nothing remarkable in the fact that these two conditions should so frequently coexist. When the intensely irritating nature of the compounds into which urine is converted is considered, as well as the constant evolution of volatile ammonia which is going on in the central reservoir of the urinary apparatus, there can be no difficulty in understanding the connection between the two. These secondary changes in the kidney are undoubtedly the most serious of the local results following protracted inflammation of the bladder. The effects of what has been spoken of as the ammoniacal fermentation of urine are, however, in some cases by no means limited to the kidneys. General symptoms, which include pains about the head, dryness of the tongue, nausea, hsematuria, and diarrhoea, are directly traceable (a point on which Billroth lays stress) to a condition of ammonsemia which often attends chronic cystitis. The relation of cystitis to the formation of vesical calculus cannot be passed by without notice. That a certain degree of irritation, if not of inflammation, is a constant factor in stone production there can be but little doubt. Let us observe what follows the excitation of inflammation of a moderate amount in the bladder, by the introduction into it of an extraneous substance. A piece of bougie may thus become accidentally lodged: cystitis is produced, the urine is rendered alkaline, and phosphates are thrown down in abundance, and aggregated around the foreign body. As long as this remains in the bladder, the cystitis continues, and the concretion increases in size ; until even- tually the portion of bougie, being completely covered in, ceases itself to play any part in the process of stone formation which is in progress. And what is true of phosphatic calculi, is equally true, though in a somewhat different sense, of calculous concretions of other chemical composition. The latter do not necessarily arise out of the products ot urinary decomposition which cystitis provokes, but when certain constituents ot the urine are present in excess, such as uric acid and urates in the gouty, or oxalates in the dyspeptic, the mechanical irritation which these salts may create leads to the pouring out of mucus from the vesical membrane in greater abundance than is natural. Thus a colloid is provided, which plays an important part in the process of stone formation. In corroboration of this view I will quote the following passage from Dr. Vandyke Carter’s work:—1 1 The Microscopic Structure and Mode of Formation of Urinary Calculi, p. 39.