922 SCROFULO-TUBERCULOUS AND OTHER STRUCTURAL DISEASES OF BONES. frequently in the sputa), they were found 2417 times. R. C. Smith has found bacilli in the pus of an abscess at the margin of the anus in a phthisical per- son, and Shingleton Smith in the urine of a tuberculous patient. Bacilli have also been found in the blood and in the expired air of consumptives.1 Inoculations in series of the blood, of the fluids of the economy, and espe- cially of the products of osteitis, might also constitute an absolutely certain means of diagnosis; but unfortunately this plan has the drawback of demanding too much time. By what signs shall encysted tubercle be recognized ? As long as it remains in a crude state, and does not soften, its existence is not revealed by any symptom, because it does not excite any noticeable inflammation around it. At, autopsies, latent tubercles are sometimes met with in the same bones which have presented phenomena necessitating either amputation or resec- tion. Thus, for example, on section of the femur, a latent tubercle maj’ be discovered in its lower extremity, when its upper extremity had manifested acute tuberculous osteitis. That is to say, some encysted tubercles may remain latent an indefinite time, while others promptly reach their stage of soft- ening and of inflammatory reaction. Where the latter are present, the patient complains of more or less severe, deep-seated pain, which is increased by walking, by motion, and by pressure. In the superficial bones, like the tibia, for example, the pain is so acute that the lightest touch evokes cries from the patient. On the other hand, the process may sometimes pursue its entire course in the bodies of the vertebrae without being accompanied by any notable pain. When an abscess is formed in one of the bones of the limbs, the part swells up at this point, the skin becomes red and shining, rigors and fever appear, or not, according as the abscess is chronic or acute, and finally, when opened spontaneously or otherwise, this gives exit to ill-formed pus, bringing with it grumous masses of yellow caseous matter. The succession of these phenomena varies in rapidity, according to a number of causes; perhaps the kind, number, and virulence of the parasites, and certainly the general condition, the rest maintained, and the care received. The route by which the pus escapes remains fistulous, until the tuberculous cavity is emptied of its original contents, and filled with a healthy crop of granulations. The organization of the latter is usually delayed, because it is hindered, on the one hand, by the tuberculous granulations which still infect the cavity, and, on the other hand, by the rigidity of its walls. This furnishes an indication to clear these cavities from all tuberculous products, if they are accessible, and to stimulate them, so as to obtain an abundant crop of good granulations. The probe introduced into these cavities generally encounters no sequestrum, or only a few fragments of dead bone, which keep up suppuration until they come away. The abscesses which result from the breaking down of an encysted tubercle do not all open externally. If, instead of being situated in the superficial layers, they occupy the central part of the end of the bone, they often open into the neighboring joint. This course of events should be thought of when the surgeon finds himself in the presence of an acute, subacute, or fungous arthritis which has been preceded by well-marked pain and swelling at the expansion of the diaphysis and epiphysis of the bones making up the joint. I have already said that encysted tubercles situated in the bodies of the vertebrae give rise to so- called abscesses by congestion. I think that painful neuralgic osteitis may be only encysted tubercle in process of softening, and only accompanied by such intense, strangulating pain, because deeply situated in a tissue naturally more compact than the spongy tissue, or which has become so by surround- Revue de Med., Sept. 1883, p. 783.