FOREIGN BODIES IN THE VAGINA. 695 Traumatism involving the Genital Zone in Pregnancy.—The genital zone includes the vulvo-uterine canal and the periueo-anal region. Trauma- tism, whether accidental or from surgical operations, has been in many cases followed by abortion or premature labor, the liability to the interruption being increased if the traumatism involve the genital zone. Cohnstein1 says that through the anatomical disposition of the connective tissue around the uterus, in the broad ligaments, and generally in the pelvis; through the hyperplastic processes which the vulva, the vagina, the uterus, and the pelvic connective tissue undergo in pregnancy, and which is increased by the presence of tumors; and, finally, through expansion of veins and dilata- tion of lymphatics, the entrance of poison from an infected wound is facili- tated. His statistics show that while 45.5 of pregnant women submitted to surgical operations, aborted, or had premature labor, in 32 per cent, of these the operations involved the uro-genital organs. The statistics of Mann2 indicate that surgical operations upon the pregnant woman are less dangerous to the pregnancy than has been believed. He gives among his conclusions the following: Operations on the vulva cause little danger to mother or child, while those on the bladder are not danger- ous. Operations on the vagina are likely to cause severe hemorrhage, but are not otherwise dangerous, while those upon the rectum involving the anal sphincter are so. Operations upon the perineum and upon the cervix may be done in the earlier months of pregnancy with a fair prospect of success. While the general truth indicated by Mann’s statistics may be admitted, all his conclusions cannot be accepted ; indeed, the number of observations which he has collected is too small to justify the formulation of absolute rules. Removal of the cancerous cervix may be necessary in pregnancy, and in the majority of cases has been done without evil result, but all plastic operations, especially those upon the cervix, the perineum, and the vesico-vaginal wall, should if possible be postponed until after delivery. Gueniot3 says that if the lesion affects the genital zone, it is not unusual to see the pregnancy in- terrupted, and that a surgical operation involving this region is formally contra-indicated by gestation, unless in case of necessity. Foreign Bodies in the Vagina. The vagina has been the receptacle of the most diverse objects, introduced accidentally or intentionally, by the subject herself or by another. In some cases the foreign body has entered the vagina of a woman or girl by her sitting or falling on it; in others it has, while being used in self-abuse or in an attempt to cause abortion, escaped the patient’s hand; in still other instances, a young girl, surprised by the monthly flow, has pushed into the vagina a spool, for example, with the vain hope of stopping the hemorrhage that has so alarmed her; and in other cases a sponge has been introduced into the vagina just before coition, and then, either being forgotten or receding from the subject’s reach, has remained for months or years. A glass pessary, a syringe, or a thermometer, has in some cases been broken in the vagina, and its fragments have required removal. The vagina has been made a place of concealment; for instance, a purse of money has been hidden in it. In other cases the foreign body has been introduced voluntarily, in thoughtlessness, or from a morbid desire to excite sympathy or wonder. * Ueb. Chirurg. Op. bei Schwangeren. 2 Transactions of American Gynaecological Society, 1883. 3 Annales de Gynecologie, 1876.