ORTHOPAEDIC SURGERY. 1018 uncommonly the subject has been attacked with scarlet fever at about the time at which the contraction may be supposed to have commenced ; beyond these clinical facts there is nothing that I have observed which can clear up the question of etiology. Possibly the fact that the feet of children amongst the prosperous are more tightly constricted than amongst the poor, may contribute to the greater liability of the former to the affection. Muscular dis- turbance is a not unfrequent sequel of scarlet fever and other acute diseases in childhood, and contraction of the plantar muscles, so induced, may be the original cause of distortion of the foot; but with our present limited knowl- edge, these are at the best only speculative suggestions upon an obscure subject. The treatinent of talipes arcuatus is not attended with any difficulty, and the measures adopted are very similar to those already described as required for the relief of plantar contraction in talipes equinus. Section of the plantar fascia and of the superficial muscles of the sole of the foot, is necessary when the deformity has existed for a lengthened period of time; in the mechanical treatment, after operation, an apparatus somewhat similar to the foot-piece of a Scarpa’s shoe is used, but a strap passing directly over the instep to each side of the sole-plate is required, to give resistance to the mechanical pressure brought to bear upon the heel and forepart of the foot; the reduction of the deformity should be carried on as quickly as is consis- tent with the careful application of the mechanical power of the instrument. The result of treatment is always satisfactory, for although complete removal of the contraction of the arch is not invariably obtained, the treading surface of the foot can be sufficiently enlarged to enable the patient to walk with perfect comfort. The case illustrated in Fig. 1470 was under treatment for two months, and at the end of that period the outer margin of the foot was brought level with the heel and toes, and the plantar surface was greatly in- creased ; in the other case of which diagrams are given, that of an adult, there was no difference in the length of the two feet after three months’ use of the shoe ; in both cases the contracted tissues in the sole of the foot were divided. Talipes Varus.—Talipes varus, like the other varieties of club-foot, occurs both as a congenital and as a non-congenital affection; the congenital form is by far the most common, and possesses especial interest for the twofold reason that it is the most severe in its nature, and the most difficult to cure* of all the distortions of the foot. Fig. 1471. Fig. 1472. Diagram of foot in talipes arcuatus (J4 natural size). Diagram of normal foot natural size).