INJURIES AND DISEASES OP THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. 546 perineum, passes the spout-like urethra through the cut, from which it pro- jects for about half an inch. In others he makes a circular incision through the skin behind the part to be removed, and reflects the skin for about bait an inch; he then cuts through the spongy body on the level of the first incision, dissects it up from the corpora cavernosa for half an inch, and divides them at this latter point. The reflected skin is united over the cut ends of the cavernous bodies, which it covers like a cap, leaving the spongy body and urethra projecting a quarter of an inch or more beyond the surface of the wound. It remains slightly projecting, and with a freely open aper- ture, after the wound has closed.1 Sir Joseph Lister makes skin flaps and dresses the stump of the penis and the urethra separately with boracic lint. The patient, when he urinates, removes the dressing from the urethral orifice, which he cleanses with boracic lotion. Of late, very extensive operations have been undertaken for the removal of the penis when infiltrated with epithelioma. Mr. Pearce Gould and others have divided the scrotum, and dissected away by means of a scalpel and a raspatory the crura of the penis from the pelvic bones; the enlarged inguinal glands have been removed at the same time. An ordinary case of amputation of the penis is the simplest amputation that the surgeon is called upon to perform. With regard to hemorrhage, the vessels spurt briskly, but are soon seized, and any trouble from retraction of the cut corpora cavernosa within the folds of skin is obviated by the different expedients already explained. The best treatment of the divided ure- thra is a problem of great interest. When the urethra was simply divided across, it contracted so much when it cicatrized that a formidable stricture was produced. When called to a case of retention of urine caused by one of these strictures, the sur- geon finds considerable difficulty in deter- mining the exact situation of the orifice of the urethra, the parts are so swollen and tuberculated from the irritation caused Fig 1358. by the dribbling of urine. An old case of amputation of the penis ; on the face of the stump is seen the patent ure- thral orifice. Smyly united the mucous membrane of the divided urethra to the skin. Earle, of St. Bartholomew’s Hospital, incised the mucous membrane of the canal, leaving the skin intact. Mr. Teale, of Leeds, recommended the division of the mucous membrane and skin at the posterior wall of the urethra, and the union of their cut edges by sutures. This plan of treatment has been attended with great success. Demarquay, who studied this subject carefully, recom- mended that the urethra, with the corpus spongiosum, should be cut longer than the corpora cavernosa, and should be divided at its anterior and poste- rior walls, the divided portions being turned outwards and stitched to the margins of the skin. Some surgeons perform a perineal section behind the point at which the urethra is divided. After amputation of the penis, the patient passes his urine downwards between his legs, and ought to be provided with a small funnel to carry it away from his person. 1 Holmes’s System of Surgery, 2d edit., vol. v. p. 181.