INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE (ESOPHAGUS. 2 long, blunt, juggler’s knife.1 In the third case the weapon broke in the gullet, a portion remaining impacted. Attempts were made to push it into the stomach and to dislodge it by emetics, the result being to cause lacera- tion of the stomach by the point, and of the oesophagus by the jagged end of the fragment.2 Wounds or other injuries of the aorta or other great vessels, of the pleura, lungs, trachea, or bronchi, sometimes occur as sequelae of internal wounds of the oesophagus, originally isolated. Wounds from without.—Apart from the operative, incised wounds of oesopha- gotomy and oesophagostomy, incised wounds of the oesophagus—transverse, longitudinal, triangular, and irregular—have been produced by suicidal and murderous cuts, by cuts from weapons in the hands of antagonists and assailants, and by cuts from the surgical knife in awkward attempts at tracheotomy, whether in one stroke or by dissection. Punctured wounds have been due to the points of swords, bayonets, foils, and daggers, and to the horn of the ox.3 Lacerated and gunshot wounds have been chiefly due to injuries by missiles discharged from fire-arms large or small. As illus- trating the rarity of wounds of the oesophagus from external injury without involvement of the air-passages, a special investigation by Ilorteloup4 elicited but four recorded examples.5 Incised wounds of the oesophagus associated with wounds of the air-passages6 are more common, especially in cases of cut-throat; but many examples cited in that connection are in reality wounds of the pharynx, that cavity having been entered above the level of the anterior wall of the gullet. Incised wounds may be longitudinal, oblique, or transverse. Transverse or nearly transverse wounds sometimes implicate almost the entire circumference of the oesophagus, and occasionally sever the tube completely.7 Punctured, lacerated, and gunshot wounds pre- sent the physical features common to such injuries. Punctured wounds sometimes penetrate both walls of the oesophagus. Wounds of internal origin occur in the varieties of incised, punctured, and lacerated wounds. They may be intentional, as in the operations for internal oesophagotomy. They may be traumatic in origin, or the result of patho- logical processes, or they may be of combined origin. Accidental wounds are most frequently caused by sharp-pointed or irregular foreign bodies, such as nails, spicula of bone, dental plates, and the like ; but are sometimes the result of injury by weapons introduced accidentally or voluntarily. Punctured wounds may interest either the anterior or the posterior wall. The posterior wall has been penetrated by the point of a foil8 which entered the mouth and lacerated the soft palate. The patient recovered.9 The ante- rior wall lias been penetrated by the point of the sword of a sword-swallower, the pericardium having been pierced as well.10 Lacerated wounds may be • Parkes, Trans. Path. Soc. Lond., 1848-9. A case of Dr. A. T. Thompson’s, cited by Walshe (Diseases of the Lungs, Heart, and Aorta, 2d ed., p. 201. London, 1854). 2 Gussenbauer, Wien. med. Blatter, 20 und 27 Dec. 1883 ; London Medical Record, April, 1884, p. 151. 3 Case cited by Knott (Pathology of (Esophagus, p. 151. Dublin, 1878); Dr. W. D. Hart- man, of West Chester, Pa., records a case of punctured wound of the oesophagus from the horn of a wild bullock. (Medical World, May, 1885, p. 171.) 4 Plaies du Larynx, de la Trachee, et de l’CEsophage. Paris, 1869. 6 Larrey, Clinique Chirurgicale, t. ii. p. 158. Paris, 1829 (in this instance the lung was wounded) ; Payen, case narrated by Boyer (Traite des Maladies Chirurgicales, t. vii. p. 279. Paris, 1831) ; Dupuytren, Blessures par Armes de Guerre, t. ii. p. 334. 6 Pare, (Euvres Completes (edition de Malgaigne), t. ii. p. 93. Paris, 1840. 7 Pare, op. cit. 8 Levillain, Journ. Univ. de Med., p. 238, 1820; cited by Mondiere (Arch. Gen. de Med., 2e Serie, t. ii.), and by Mackenzie (Manual of Diseases of the Throat and Nose, vol. ii. p. 183. London, 1884). 9 A nearly similar case, recorded by Wilmer (Cases and Remarks on Surgery, p. 86) and cited by Knott (op. cit., p. 149, Dublin, 1778), terminated fatally. 10 Parkes, loc. cit. ; Walshe, op. cit. (Dr. A. T. Thompson’s case, already referred to.)