URINARY CALCULUS. 146 tised by physicians, or only by certain travelling specialists, as was the case in Greece. The Chinese are believed to have been acquainted with stone long before the modern era, and Albucasis, among the Arabians, certainly performed lithotomy. Hippocrates was familiar with the existence of stone. He used sounds and catheters habitually, and described the use of instruments for the detec- tion of stone. But the mortality attending the operations of peripatetic lithotomists was so great that wounds of the bladder came to be looked upon as necessarily mortal, and Hippocrates could not countenance the practice of lithotomy. In spite of his conservative opposition the operation flourished, however, and Celsus tells how Ammonius of Alexandria, in the third century before our era, proposed that, after the soft parts had been divided, the stone should he cut by an instrument of his invention, if it should prove too large for extraction without injury to the neck of the bladder. From this circum- stance, lithotomy takes its name. Celsus wrote in the first century before our era, and the method of his day, cutting on the gripe, is now often spoken of as his. The chemical side of the study of stone includes many distinguished names—among them notably Van Swieten, Van Ilelmont, »Scheele, who discovered uric acid in 1776, Bergman, who detected lime in calculi, Wol- laston, who discovered, or rather gave a fixed character to, the fusible, the mulberry, and the pure earthy-phosphatic calculus. All of these varieties were described accurately by him in 1797, and he afterwards added cystic oxide to the list. Fourcroy and Vauquelin announced soon after that they had detected urate of ammonium and silica in calculi, and a host of modern investigators in urinary physiology and pathology have helped to make our knowledge of the chemical and microscopical nature of calculous concre- tions very exact. Urinary calculus is a term applied to a concretion of more or less stony hardness found at any point along the urinary tract or in a fistula commu- nicating with that tract. The calculus may be formed of crystalline organic matter, of earthy phosphates, of fibrin, of indigo, or of other substance. It may form spontaneously, or upon a nucleus introduced from without. It may be microscopic in size, or as large as a child’s head at term. A mi- nute rounded concretion, smaller than a millet-seed, may properly be called a stone if it shows a laminated structure under the microscope; while clus-. ters of large size composed of a conglomeration of crystals, separate crystals, and sand, may, whatever their size, be properly termed gravel. This distinction has practical value in connection with the questions of prognosis and of the preventive treatment of stone. In these respects, if the careful scientific researches of Rainey, Ord, and Carter have any value, the distinction is important. For inasmuch as the salts of the urine assume a solid state in the crystalloidal, or in the colloidal form (submorphous of Car- ter), we have the element upon which to decide, in a given case, whether the tendency to stone formation is great or small. The crystalloidal forms may be somewhat disregarded ; the colloidal call for earnest consideration. Crystals under ordinary conditions in the urine do not unite to form a stone. Something more is necessary. Earthy phosphates also fail to form stone under ordinary conditions. Thompson has called special attention to this, and it has long been a well-known fact that a patient with the so-called phosphatic diathesis may habitually urinate in such a way that the latter part or the whole of his stream of urine is creamy-white with precipitated