1022 ORTHOPEDIC SURGERY. produced upon the foot by abnormal contraction of these several muscles; further, of the non-congenital varieties of talipes varus, that arising from spas- modic muscular contraction bears a much greater resemblance to the congenital form than does that resulting from paralysis; and again, paralytic equinus is the most frequent of the acquired forms of club-foot, and the most uncommon of all congenital deformities. In describing the causation of non-congenital club-foot, it was noticed that the earliest cause acting after birth was irritation of the nerve-centres; and it is not unreasonable to suppose that the foetus is especially liable to the same nerve-excitation, and that during the period of development in utero the nervous tissue is particularly sensitive to morbid influences. If this deduction is correct, we should expect to find spastic muscular contraction and deformity complicating cases in which there is defect of development involving the nervous system; and such is in fact the case, for in the anencephalic foetus, and in those affected with spina bifida and other malformations implicating the nerve-centres, there is often present the condition of club-foot. The case of varus illustrated in Figure 1475 occurred in a child who was also affected with congenital deformity of the spine. The column presented somewhat the same condition that arises from extensive caries of three or four of the bodies of the vertebrae, with greater destruction on one side than on the other, and with the formation of severe angular deformity combined with lateral displacement; both feet were dis- torted to an extreme degree, and the muscles were very rigid. No doubt there had been, in this case, arrest of development of the bodies of the vertebrae, and local irritation of the spinal cord had been present; for some few weeks after birth the child was subject to clonic spasms of the muscles of the lower extremity, which prevented any treatment being undertaken for the relief of the deformity of the feet. The child is still under observation, being now seven years old; the varus is quite cured, but from the deformity of the spine she is not taller than a well-made child of two years. Treatment of Congenital Talipes Varus.—The treatment of congenital varus is divided into two stages: first the foot itself is restored to its natural form, and afterwards the elevation of the heel is overcome and the normal position of the foot with the leg is obtained ; the reasons for following this course are similar to those already explained in describing the treatment of talipes equinus; the inversion and adduction of the foot depend upon displace- ment of the bones at the transverse tarsal joint, and hence this defect is more easily removed by retaining the immobility of the os calcis and astrag- alus, whilst proceeding to place the anterior portion of the foot in position. The muscles which have by their contraction induced, and which by their shortened condition maintain, the inversion and adduction of the foot, are the tibialis posticus and tibialis anticus; and in commencing treatment, the first point to be decided is whether or not section of the tendons of these muscles is necessary. In cases in which the distortion of the foot exists only to a slight degree,such as that illustrated in Fig. 1473, tenotomy is not required; but when the deformity is more severe, and the foot firmly resists all attempts to restore it to its proper position, section of the tendons must be performed. Subcutaneous division of the tendon of the tibialis posticus muscle presents some difficulties, because it is deeply situated, and, especially in a fat child, is not readily detected. The patient is so placed that the inner surface of the leg looks directly upwards, and that the anterior surface is turned away from the operator. An assistant steadies the limb by holding the foot and leg, and a sharp-pointed tenotome is entered about three-quarters of an inch above the ankle, exactly in the centre of the inner surface of the leg; it is pushed on until the edge of the tibia is reached, the sheath of the tendon being freely opened by a few strokes of the blade. The sharp-pointed knife