676 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE FEMALE GENITALS. been attributed to manipulation1 rather than to the act itself. ^Nevertheless, in the light of recently reported cases,2 it is highly probable that a fatal result may follow a vaginal tear caused in coition. Plazzoni3 and Sir Spencer Wells4 have each met with a case where the recto-vaginal wall was torn in the con- summation of marriage. More or less serious wounds of the vagina have been caused by fragments of a glass syringe or pessary. Other wounds of the vagina have resulted from the horn of one of the domestic animals ; from sitting down upon, or falling on, a foreign body ; or from jumping so that a foreign body, as, for instance, a pencil, the handle of the cover5 of a privy seat, the handle of a pitchfork,6 brush,7 or shovel,8 a splinter of wood,9 or a tobacco stick,10 has penetrated the vagina directly, or has first entered the rectum and then perforated the recto-vaginal wall. At least two most remarkable instances of recovery after the entrance of the handle of a hay fork through the vagina into the abdominal cavity, have been recorded. The first case was that of an Irish woman who jumped from a corn-rick, and alighted upon the thick end of a hay fork which entered two feet. She recovered, and died four years and a half after the accident, meantime having become pregnant twice, giving birth to a living child from the first pregnancy, but dying during labor at the end of the second. This case was reported by Freer to the Medical Society of London, in 1876. The other case was reported by Dr. James, of Whitesboro, 1ST. Y., to the Boston Gynaecological Society, in 1870. A woman, twenty-seven years of age, in jumping from a hay-mow upon a pile of hay on the barn floor, slid from the bay, and the handle of a pitch-fork entered the vagina, perforating it a little to the right of the median line, between the neck of the womb and the rectum; it passed obliquely into the abdominal cavity till it struck the ninth or tenth rib, near the spinal column upon the left side of the body. She removed the fork, and with great ditficulty succeeded in walking to her house; she recovered in four months. The immediate dangers from these injuries of the vagina are shock, hemorrhage, and septicaemia ; the remote dangers are genito-urinary or recto- vaginal fistulse, vaginal cicatrices or stenosis, and intra-pelvic adhesions causing permanent displacements of the uterus. Omitting the special treat- ment needed in ruptures of the vagina occurring in labor, the first indication is removal of the foreign body, if one be present, and thorough cleansing of the wound with an antiseptic solution. Shock is to be treated as when it occurs from other injuries. Hemorrhage is usually controlled by the tampon, either with or without the application of cold or astringents; but immediate closure of the wound by means of the continuous catgut suture, would, unless abdo- minal drainage were necessary, be more efficient, and would secure earlier healing. Wounds of the Pregnant Uterus. Wounds of the pregnant uterus may be conveniently divided into vaginal and abdominal. Vaginal wounds occur most frequently in criminal abortion ; a pointed instrument, for example, is used to puncture the membranes, and, 1 Billroth’s Handbuch der Frauenkrankheiten ; Real-Encyklopadie der gesammten Heilkunde. 2 Centralblatt f. Gynakol., Februar, 1885 ; Indian Medical Gazette, 1872. 3 De Part. Generat., lib. ii. 4 Med. Times and Gazette, 1860. 6 Lancet, 1855. 6 American Journal of the Medical Sciences, 1853 ; Journal of the Gynsecological Society of Boston. 1870; Schmidt’s Jahrbiicher, 1869; Lancet, 1876. i Transactions of New York Medical Society, 1864. 3 Centralblatt f. Chirurgie, 1875. 9 Chicago Medical Examiner, 1873. io American Journal of the Medical Sciences, 1853.