490 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE URETHRA. Fis. 1340. distance from the meatus; (c) The urethra and meatus are well formed, and there is a simple congenital fistula of the lower wall of the canal. (3) Scrotal and Perineoscrotal Hypospadia.—Arrest of development begin- ning, in this case, at the very outset of the evolution of the external genital organs, the resulting deformity is much more extensive and much more com- plex. The scrotum, divided "in the median line by a more or less deep an- tero-posterior cleft, is composed of two distinct pockets, each of which may contain a well-formed testicle. But often these organs remain smaller and softer than in the normal state; their descent through the inguinal canal is incomplete, or altogether wanting; and the two pockets, remaining empty, bear an almost perfect resemblance to the labia majora of a woman. The penis, often atrophied, is more or less firmly applied against the fissure in the scrotum, whence arises the necessity of elevating the organ, in order to expose and examine the opening in the urethra. The penis being thus elevated, it is seen that the funnel-shaped scrotal cleft is lined with a thin, rosy membrane, mucous in appearance. The urethra opens at the bottom of this infundibulum, and is seen there in the shape of a little slit, elongated vertically and edged with two muco-cufaneous folds, which are prolonged and unite behind, circumscribing a more or less deep depression which suggests to a certain extent the entrance of the vagina. These folds, which simulate the labia minora, approach in front, constituting by their union sometimes a little groove, sometimes a muco-cutaneous ridge which occupies the middle of the lower surface of the penis, and end on each side of the base of the glans. Although the latter is generally well developed, sometimes even exuberant, the penis is always, especially on its inferior surface, much shorter than in the normal state. It is, moreover, strongly incur- vated below, as if elbowed (Bouisson); is sometimes met with in penile hypos- in peno-scrotal and perineo-scrotal hypos- padia, is due, not only to the existence of the muco-cutaneous ridge, which extends from the glans to the hypospaclic opening, and which repre- sents the absent urethra, but also and especially to the arrest of development of the corpora cavernosa at their inferior part. At this point the fibrous envelope of the corpora cavernosa is found to be thickened, as if retracted, and the most inferior lacunse considerably reduced in volume; even the sep- tum of the corpora cavernosa seems in certain cases to participate in the con- traction, and the knowledge of this fact, due to Bouisson, is of great import- ance from the standpoint of therapeusis. In cases of very pronounced njalformation, with very deep infundibulum, and with atrophy and retraction of the penis which is firmly applied against the two halves of the scrotum, the conformation of the sexual apparatus pre- sents such a resemblance to that of the feminine type, that the errors which have been committed in regard to the sex of the individual observed are explicable. Perineo-scrotal hypospadia. and this arrangement, which padia, and which is constant