114 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE RECTUM. the bowel; there is now not so much jelly-like matter, but more pus, more of the coffee-ground discharge, and more blood. The pain suffered is not very acute, but very wearying; it is described as like a dull toothache, and is induced now by much standing about or walking. At this stage of the complaint the diarrhoea comes on in the evening as well as in the morning, and the patient’s health begins to give way-—only triflingly so perhaps, but he is dyspeptic, loses his appetite, and has pain in the rectum during the night, which disturbs his rest; he also has wandering and apparently anomalous pains in the back, hips, down the leg, and sometimes in the penis. There is yet another symptom present in the later stages, marking the existence of some slight contraction of the bowel—alternating attacks of diarrhoea and constipation ; and during the diarrhoea the patient passes a very large quantity of feces. These seizures are attended with severe colicky pains in the abdomen, faintness, and not unfrequently sickness. As the ulceration extends, attempts at healing take place; these result in infiltration and thickening of the mucous and submucous tissues, and conse- quent diminution of the calibre of the bowel, so that real stricture of various forms supervenes. Coincident with all this there results a gradual loss of the contractile power of the rectum, and almost complete immobility, so that the lower part of the gut is converted into a passive tube through which the feces, if fluid, trickle; but, if solid, stick fast until pushed through by fresh formations above them. Invariably also there is loss of power in the sphinc- ters. When diarrhoea is present, the patient has little or no control over his motions. Usually b}^ this time abscesses have formed, or are in process of for- mation, and these breaking soon become fistulse. I have seen persons with eight external orifices, some situated three inches or more from the anus. On examining these cases of ulceration of the rectum, the surgeon may often feel, in the earlier stages, an ulcer situated dorsally about one and a half inches from the anus, oval in form, perhaps an inch long by half an inch wide, surrounded by a raised and sometimes hard edge; there is acute pain caused on touching it, and it may be readily made to bleed. With a speculum he can distinctly see the ulcer, the edges well marked, the base grayish or very red and inflamed-looking, the surrounding mucous membrane being proba- bly healthy ; in the neighborhood of the ulcer may often be felt sdme lumps, which are either gummata or enlarged rectal glands. This is the stage in which the disease is often curable. At a later period of the malady, he will observe deep ulcers with great thickening of the mucous membrane, often also roughening to a considerable extent, as though the mucous mem- brane had been stripped off. At this stage there are generally, outside of the anus, swollen and tender flaps of skin, shiny, and covered with an ichorous discharge ; these flaps are commonly club-shaped, and are met with also in malignant disease ; but during the early development of the disease no ulceration is found near the anus, nor at the aperture. I must positively repeat that the large majority of these cases do not commence by any manifestation at the anus, such as growths or sores ; occasionally a fissure may be the first lesion, and the ulceration may extend from the wound made in attempting to cure it; this is, however, the exception to the rule. So definite is this external appearance in long-standing disease, that one glance is sufficient to enable an expert to predicate the existence of either cancer or severe ulceration ; these external enlargements are the result of the ulceration going on in the bowel, and the irritation caused by almost constant discharge. The ulceration may be confined to a part of the circumference of the bowel, or it may extend all around, and for some distance, but not usually more than four inches, up the rectum.