1138 APPENDIX. assist in making the wounded comfortable. 11. On the march, the surgeon-in-chief of a division remains with the general commanding. Duties of a Surgeon-in-Chief of a Brigade—(1) The surgeon-in-chief of a brigade lias under his charge all the medical supplies allowed to his command. He draws once a month, from the medical purveyor of the army, all that is needed to bring what he has on hand up to the requirements of the supply table, and in case of emergency can, durino- the month, make special requisitions for necessary articles. He issues to medical officers in charge of regiments only what they want for immediate use. By this excellent arrangement the army has been relieved from the encumbrance of the large supplies formerly allowed to regiments, and the transportation of the medical department is greatly reduced. Under two orders from Surgeon Letterman, Medical Director of the Army of the Potomac, brigade surgeons were forbidden, for more than a year, to take receipts from regimental surgeons for supplies issued to them, and the brigade surgeon was ordered to expend them on his annual returns. This proving unsatisfactory to the Treasury Department, a circular from the Surgeon-General di- rected a return to the requirements of army regulations in the transfer of all property. As medicines and other expendable articles are issued continuously, and in very small quantities, it is unavoidable for the surgeon-in-chief of a brigade to be forced to ex- pend, on his returns, much property really issued to regimental surgeons. In addition to the articles carried in the wagons, the boxes of the ambulances are filled with the material necessary to establish a temporary field hospital in case the supply train during a movement should be inaccessible. This arrangement is one of the greatest advances made during the past two years in providing for the wounded, as the conveyances bringing them in have all that is absolutely required to feed them, and the hospital tent- fly generally carried in the ambulance gives sufficient shelter. In the construction of new ambulances, it would be desirable to increase the width and depth of the box so that larger camp kettles could be carried, the present only admitting the smallest sized kettle.1 The surgeon-in-chief of a brigade furnishes the material carried in the ambu- lance-boxes, and assures himself by weekly inspections of them that each box contains all required by the supply table and other orders. He also draws from the medical purveyor, and is responsible for, the stretchers carried on the ambulances. (2) The surgeon-in-chief of a brigade is the medical adviser of a brigade commander in all professional questions affecting the command. Applications for leave of absence, discharge, and invalid rolls, grounded on the certificates of regimental surgeons, are submitted to him for his opinion of their propriety, to be based on an examination of the applicant. It is the duty of the surgeon-in-chief of a brigade also to keep careful watch over the health of the brigade, pointing out and endeavoring to correct all in- fractions of hygienic laws. He receives every Saturday, from each medical officer in charge of the regiments constituting the brigade, a weekly report of sick and wounded of his regiment, and of the anti-scorbutics issued to it. Whenever a regimental medi- cal officer leaves or returns to his command, he should furnish the surgeon-in-chief of the brigade with a copy of the order under which lie acts. The surgeon-in-chief con- solidates the regimental weekly reports of sick and wounded, and of anti-scorbutics, and forwards them to the surgeon-in-chief of his division. He sends, at the same time, a report of the liquors drawn and issued by him during the week. He makes also, to the sur^eon-in-chief of the division, a monthly return of the medical officers of the brigade. After a battle, he sends to the surgeon-in-chief of the division a report of the ao-rrrenate strength for duty and names of medical officers present for duty, and the killed, wounded, and missing in action, according to the reports received from regimental surgeons. The losses in skirmishing in the intervals between- the battles have been reported weekly.2 1 In the new army ambulance-wagon, approved by the Secretary of War in 1881, valuable space in the box under the driver’s seat is taken up by a water keg. It also weighs several hundred pounds more than the old and tried “ Wheeling ambulance.” (See Fig. 1532, page 1130, supra.) . . 2 The brigade surgeons should not be selected, as a rule, for the operating surgeons of the divi- sion field hospitals, as their presence is necessary at the depots nearest the line of battle to exer- cise supervision over the medical officers there stationed.