INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS OF THE BONES. 860 retained its vitality through the greater part of its thickness, and which was distinguished from the new bone by its whiteness and its compactness. The peripheral swelling of the bone, that is to say, the sub-periosteal or parosteal infiltration, terminates in various ways; either it undergoes gradual resolution, or it terminates in the production of osteophytes, or it even origi- nates an abscess. Sub-periosteal abscess, the course of which is very variable and which may occur in the form of either a cold or a phlegmonous abscess, indicates that the inflammation is situated under the periosteum, but it does not indicate that the inflammation has started under this membrane. It may be consecu- tive to an inflammation of the medulla, as I have already pointed out above, and may be only the last step of a process which has begun in the medulla either of the central canal or of the spongy tissue. If a subperiosteal abscess be limited, if it occupy only a small part of the surface or of one of the faces of the bone, if it be not accompanied by deep, gnawing pain, it may be attri- buted to a primary periostitis. But if fluctuation appear oidy at a late period, if it show itself first in the juxta-epiphyseal regions, where commu- nication between the periosteum and the medulla takes place most readily on account of the abundance of vascular openings and the thinness of the com- pact layer, we should recognize a consecutive periostitis, and should expect to rind, not only pus under the periosteum, but also oil-globules, due to trans- udation of the medullary oil through the canals of Havers. Suppuration of the bones is seen under various aspects, according to the course and intensity of the inflammation and according to the tissue first affected ; it presents also differences fully as important, according to the nature of the affection. As we are not occupied in this article with either tuberculous or syphilitic lesions of the bones, we may at once eliminate gummata and tuberculous abscesses, which belong to the chronic forms of osteitis, and which have peculiar characteristics: ill-formed pus, grumous, sometimes pitchy, ropy, with or without osseous particles. In acute or subacute osteitis, the liquid which has been effused under the periosteum, in the periosteal sheath, or even outside of it in the parosteal layers, appears, after rupture of this sheath, sometime! in the form of a clear liquid, only slightly turbid from the presence of white or red corpuscles, sometimes in the form of pus like the laudable pus of a subcutaneous abscess. In either case it may he accompanied by a greater or less quantity of oil- globules. "When these oil-globules run together in a serous and almost trans- parent liquid, they give this liquid the appearance of greasy broth. I long ago explained these varieties in the appearance of the liquids accumulated under the periosteum or in the parosteal layers, and I described in 18721 these collections of ropy liquid, transparent as synovial fluid, which are sometimes met with in the inflammations of bone to which I have given the name of albuminous periostitis. I observed this affection for the first time in 1868, in a young patient fifteen years old, affected with osteo-periostitis of the lower extremity of the diaphysis of the femur. A collection had formed above and to the inner side of the knee-joint. It formed a tumor oblong in the direction of the axis of the femur, lifted up the muscular mass, and was the seat of evident fluctuation. The general symptoms which had been troublesome for some days (continuous fever and intense pain) had abated, and even the local heat had almost disappeared. I diagnosticated a sub- periosteal abscess, and made an incision into the tumor with a bistoury. There escaped a gush of clear, ropy liquid like synovia. Those who were Poncet, De la pcriostite albuminense (Gazette Ilebdomadaire de Medecine et Cliirnrgie).