460 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE URETHRA. or introduce a bougie, or any other foreign body into the anterior portion of the urethra, with the object of provoking contraction of the bladder by reflex action; finally, some patients squat, as if at stool, and contract all their muscles violently. In the midst of these efforts, the penis being in a state of semi-erection, flatus and fecal matter escape from the anus ; various •complications may likewise be produced, such as prolapsus, hemorrhoids, and hernia, but as only a very small quantity of urine flows, and as the bladder is far from being emptied, a new desire to urinate is soon felt, and the whole scene which I have just described is renewed. A peculiar symptom, which is sometimes observed at an advanced period of the disorder which we are considering, is incontinence of urine. The almost incessant efforts which the patients are forced to make, provoke a more or less pronounced atony of the sphincter of the bladder. The neck of the bladder being then constantly open, the dilated prostatic and membranous portions of the urethra form with the bladder a single cavity, in which the urine accumulates, while the excess filters night and day through the stric- f ured part. To these various troubles of micturition must be added some analogous symptoms which are quite frequently observed in connection with the genital functions, in individuals affected with stricture of the urethra. Besides the diminution of sexual desire and the complete absence of erection complained of by certain patients, ejaculation is sometimes painful, and is more or less hindered by the presence of the stricture. The spermatic fluid is not pro- jected, but dribbles out, part of the fluid flowing backwards from the stric- ture, and even into the bladder. In cases of very tight stricture, fecundation may even be rendered impossible. Finally, coitus itself may be hindered in certain cases of traumatic stricture, in which the corpora cavernosa are in- vaded by cicatricial tissue, and are subjected during erection to more or less marked distortion. (3) The symptoms which have just been enumerated, are no doubt of great importance; but, since the greater part of them may be met with in other .affections of the urinary passages—in spasm of the urethra and of the neck of the bladder, and in hypertrophy of the prostate—it is indispensable, either to establish the diagnosis or to obtain precise notions as to the character of the stricture, to make a direct examination of the urethra. A large number of instruments have been devised for this purpose. I shall only mention wax bougies, which once enjoyed some favor, and with which it wTas pretended to take an impression of the stricture, and thus to acquire absolutely accurate information about it. But this precision was only apparent, and it was soon seen that this procedure gave in reality only untrustworthy results, so that it lias been abandoned with good reason. The endoscope of Desormeaux might, in some cases, furnish useful infor- mation for the diagnosis of strictures of the urethra; but this instrument is at present almost completely neglected. Nowadays, no instrument but that which I have described under the name of bougie-a-boule (bulb-pointed bougie) (Fig. 1305, p. 421) is employed. One with a large bulb is to be used first; it is to be very gently insinuated into the urethra, great care being- taken to stop at the first obstacle which is encountered. The length of the portion introduced, measured from the point of the bulb, represents the dis- tance between the commencement of the stricture and the meatus. This first point acquired, an attempt is to be made to determine the degree of narrow- ness of the stricture, and for this purpose an effort is made to pass it with bulbous bougies, using each time a smaller one, until one is found which passes without force "through the strictured portion. By measuring the diameter of the bulb (which is easily done by means of gauges made for this