992 TUMORS OF THE BONES. so distinct a manner. These tumors are often the seat of pulsation, of expansile motion, and even of a murmur. Their complications are: plastic arthritis due to proximity, spontaneous fractures, distortions of the joints, etc. (Terrier.) The first stage of development of these growths usually passes unnoticed. Sometimes they are first observed after a traumatism, which may, moreover, provoke rapid evolution of a tumor which up to that time had been slowly developed. These tumors are usually painless, except in cases with a rapid course. The health and constitution of the patients remain a long time unaf- fected. Verneuil thinks that these tumors do not invade the lymphatic glands; in a case of Ollier’s, however, the glands were implicated. The size of the mass, ulceration of the skin from stretching, consecutive suppuration, interstitial hemorrhages, and pain, end by exhausting the patient. Diagnosis.—r-The diagnosis is not always easy. An exploratory puncture generally gives exit to a few drops of blood, a thing which does not occur upon puncture of a fibroma or chondroma. Central tumors cannot be diag- nosticated with certainty at the outset. The absence of glandular engorge- ment, and the integrity of the general health, may lead to a thought of these tumors. Prognosis.—Myeloid tumors are benign, hut perhaps less so than E. Nek- ton seems to think. There are, in fact, rapid and malignant cases—quite rare according to Verneuil, hut quite frequent according to Virchow, espe- cially when the affection is seated in the bones of the limbs. Treatment.—(1) Ligation of the Artery of the Limb.—This operation was done by Dupuytren in a case in which there was pulsation, and it gave a good result for seven years, when recurrence took place, making amputation necessary. I only mention this case, which probably rests upon an inexact diagnosis. (2) Simple Excision.—Excision, wliich has been employed especi- ally for periosteal tumors, is an incomplete operation, to which cauterization or scraping of the surface of the hone must be added. (3) Excision of the Tumor and Ablation of a portion of the Bone.—In this, ablation of the tumor is followed by scooping out of the bone with the gouge and mallet, through the whole extent which may be supposed to be affected. (4) Partial or total resection is especially applicable to the maxi life. (5) Amputation, or better, disarticulation, is the procedure especially applicable to the bones of the limbs. After having described myeloid tumors, I cannot pass over in silence a variety of growth described by Dr. Bouveret,1 which he has called osteoblastic tumor. This is a neoplasm composed essentially of the elements which are met with in bone-marrow ; but by its generalization this tumor is assimilated, to tumors of greater malignity. The sarcomata which I am next about to describe are of two varieties, when regarded from the standpoint of pathological anatomy. Their symp- toms closely resemble those of some tumors of which I have spoken already. I shall consider them especially in regard to their malignity. Fasciculated Sarcomata.—Synonyms: Fibro-plastic tumors; spindle-celled sarcomata; recurrent fibroids (Paget); fibro-nuclear sarcomata (Bennet). Situation.—These neoplasms are met with especially at the ends of the bones, but sometimes also in the diapbysis. They are situated preferably in the long hones, as in the lower end of the femur or the upper end of the tibia; hut they are also seen in bones of the cranium, of the face, of the tarsus, etc. Their size is often considerable; their shape is rounded or oval; they are smooth, and rarely bosselated. Their starting-point may be the periosteum 1 These de Paris, 1878.