4 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE (ESOPHAGUS. elude detection when their edges remain in contact. Gaping transverse wounds speak for themselves. Violent thirst1 and continuous hiccough2 are said to be especially significant of wounds of the oesophagus. Contused wounds are difficult of diagnosis. Their existence is inferred from the evi- dence of serious injury of the overlying parts, coexisting with pain in the oesophagus, and with dysphagia and hiccough. In wounds from within, the diagnosis will depend on the history of a foreign body, the presence of blood in matters vomited or regurgitated, dysphagia, thirst, and localized pain. Prognosis.—The natural history of operative wounds of the oesophagus, in both external and internal cesophagotomy, indicates that but little danger is to be apprehended from a clean-cut longitudinal wound implicating no other important structure. Cicatrization may be expected in from five to eight days. Punctured wounds, and minute incised wounds, may be expected to unite in from three to four days. The arrangement of the muscular fibres of the oesophagus, in longitudinal and circular layers, favors muscular contraction in wounds of this character.3 Transverse wounds present a much graver prognosis on account of the greater liability that matters may escape from the oesophagus into the surrounding tissues, and thereby induce death by suffocation or by inflammatory processes. The edges of a transverse wound may be so widely separated as to preclude the possibility of approximation,4 especially when the organ has been severed in its entire circumference. Even after recovery from such a complete severance, the edges of the result- ing fistula may remain so wide asunder as to necessitate permanent alimenta- tion by means of a tube passed through the opening.5 The same result follows lacerated bullet wounds,6 or other wounds which have destroyed integral portions of the oesophageal walls. The prospect is much the best in wounds from without, when the wound is slight, longitudinal in direction, situated high up, and unassociated with wounds of the air-tubes or of the great blood- vessels. Suicidal wounds implicating the bloodvessels are usually fatal by hemorrhage. When not immediately fatal, such wounds render the prognosis graver on account of the consequent debility produced by the hemorrhage. Wounds in the thoracic portion of the oesophagus are so inaccessible to sur- gical manipulation that the prognosis is rendered very grave indeed. In an undetailed mention by Mondiere of five personal observations7 of wounds in this region, recovery is reported in hut one instance. Recovery from incised wounds of suicidal origin is not infrequent. Small punctured wounds are said to cicatrize spontaneously with great rapidity.8 Recovery has ensued from a severe bayonet wound9 in which the weapon had passed between the third and fourth ribs, wounding the lung, of course, in its transit. The prognosis does not seem to be particularly grave in gunshot wounds, even though the air-passage be implicated. In the tabular statement of a series of gunshot wounds of the neck occurring in the United States,10 it is to be noted that there were eight cases of wound injuring the oesophagus without injury to the air passages, with four recoveries; two cases of wound injuring the trachea and oesophagus, both fatal; one case of wound injuring the 1 Larrey, Clinique Chirurgicale, t. ii. p. 155. Paris, 1829. 2 Mondiere, loc. cit. 3 Larrey, op. cit., t. ii. p. 157. 4 Pare, op. cit. 6 Trion, case cited by Boulin (Sur les Plaies de l’CEsophage, p. 15. These de Paris, 1828), and by Knott (op. cit., p. 150) ; Hensclien, Upsala Lakareforenings Forhandlingar, 1874, and London Med. Record, August 16, 1875. 6 Mondiere, op. cit. "> Ibid. 8 Boulin, op. cit., p. 19. 9 Payen, case reported by Boyer (op. cit., t. vii. p. 279) ; cited by Boulin (op. cit., p. 15) ; by Nelaton (Elements de Pathologie Chirurgicale, t. iii. p. 477. Paris, 1854) ; by Horteloup (op. cit.) ; and by others. 10 Medical and Surgical History of the War of the Rebellion, Part III.; Surgical Volume, p. 688. Washington, 1883.