HISTORY OF SURGERY. U87 him violent and unmerited abuse. Thus, we find Gfourmelen calling him a blood-thirsty and cruel rascal. We can fix almost the exact date at which the ligature was first employed by Pare, since the edition of his work published in 1552 mentions only the cautery as a means of arresting hemorrhage, while the edition of 1564 con- tains his first mention of the ligature for this purpose. After he had adopted this method he seems to have looked back upon the use of the hot irons with terror, “a thing very horrible and too cruel to be mentioned.” lie laments that he should ever have used it, “ whereof I am ashamed and aggrieved.” “ In conclusion, I counsel the young surgeon to abandon this miserable way of burning and roasting.” The introduction of the ligature for arresting traumatic hemorrhage is of so much importance that it marks an epoch in the history of surgery. When, a little farther on, I shall take occa- sion to speak of William Clowes, one of the chirurgeons of Queen Elizabeth, and of his ‘‘Profitable and Hecessarie Booke,” it will be seen by contrast how important the ligation of arteries is in amputations and other surgical operations. The collected works of Pare make a ponderous folio of more than a thousand pages, the result of fifty years’ labor. He says, “ I aimed that antiquity may seeme to have nothing wherein it may exceed us, besides the glory of invention; nor posterity anything left but a certaine small hope to adde some things, as it is easie to add to former inventions.” He thus speaks of its pictorial illustrations: “Being a lover of carved workes, I beautified it with three hundred formes, or graven figures and apt delineations,, in which whosoever shall attentively looke shall find five hundred anatomical! or organicall figures belonging to the arte (it they be reckoned particularly). To every one of these I have given their names and showed their use, least they should seeme to have beetle put in vainly for ostentation or delight.”1 Pare was the first to repair laceration of the perineum by sutures, and also the first to extract loose cartilages from the knee-joint. In his works will be seen drainage-tubes; the club-foot boot; a saw in every particular like that called Iley’s; also fine models of artificial legs, hands, noses, ears, and eyes. While it is true that Pare greatly simplified the treatment of wounds, par- ticularly gunshot wounds, by putting an end to the barbarous practice of scalding them by pouring into them boiling-hot oil, yet he was far from being free from credulity and absurdity. IPe tells us in his “Voyage of Thurin, 1536,” the occasion that brought about this change, and also how he obtained a “receipt of an excellent balme for wounds with gunshot.” He had read in “John de Vigo’s book of wounds in generall,” that wounds made with powder and ball must be cauterized with “ oyle of elders scalding hot.” So finding that all the other chirurgeons followed this practice, he says:— I tooke courage to doe as they did. At last I wanted oyle, and was constrained in steed thereof, to apply a digestive of yolkes of egges, oyle of roses, and turpentine. In the night I could not sleepe in quiet, fearing some default in not cauterizing, that I should finde those to whom I had not used the burning oyle dead impoysoned; which made me rise very early to visit them, where beyond my expectation I found those to whom I had applyed my digestive medicine, to feele little paine, and their wounds without inflammation or tumor, having rested reasonable well in the night : the other to whom was used the sayd burning oyle, I found them feverish, with great paine and tumour about the edges of their wounds. And then I resolved with my selfe never so cruelly to burne poore men wounded with gunshot. Being at Thurin I found a chirurgion, who had the fame above all others, for the curing of wounds of gunshot, into whose favour I found meanes to insinuate my selfe, to have the receipt of his balme, as he called it wherewith he dressed wounds of that kind, and hee held me off the space of •Works. (Johnson’s Translation.) London, 1634.