423 EXPLORATION OF THE URETHRA AND BLADDER. at the right of the patient, takes the penis with the left hand between the middle and ring fingers, whilst the index and thumb roll the prepuce back and separate the lips of the meatus. The sound or catheter, previously coated with oil, is held in the right hand, the thumb lying across the side of the convexity of the instrument and close to the outer extremity, the index and the middle finger applied to the opposite side, so that the outer extremity rests upon the last phalanx of the index. Most authors advise holding the instrument parallel to the linea alba. Some prefer to incline its curvature toward the right inguinal region, giving it a direction parallel to the gluteal fold, and to insinuate it gently into the meatus; then as soon as it penetrates to the spongy portion of the urethra, to replace the sound and the penis parallel to the abdomen and the linea alba. But whatever may be the manner in which the introduction is begun, the manoeuvre of exploratory sounding is comprised in three stages. First Stage.—The sound is gently pressed into the urethra, at the same time that the surgeon presses the penis upon the sound. It is important that during its progress the instrument should be kept in the median line, the beak following the upper wall of the urethra, the heel resting on the posterior wall which it presses away. When the instrument so conducted reaches the cul-de-sac of the bulb, its extremity tends naturally to engage in the opening of the membranous portion, and the second stage begins. In order to regulate more precisely the precise moment when this second stage begins, G-uyon has proposed the following modification of the classical procedure: He holds the sound in such a manner that its curve looks toward the inner Fig. 1308. Exploratory sounding : first stage. face of the right thigh, the shaft and the handle being perpendicular to the anterior face of the thigh or even a little oblique. The sound being con- ducted in this way to the cul-de-sac of the bulb, arrives there in a transverse position, the heel resting on the left and the beak on the right lateral wall.