HEMORRHOIDS. 135 If tlie pile he very large, a small portion may now he cut off, taking care to leave sufficient stump beyond the ligature to guard against its slipping. When all the hemorrhoids are thus tied, they should be returned within the sphincter ; after this is done, any superabundant skin which remains may be cut off; but this should not be too freely excised, for fear of contraction when the wounds heal. I always place a pad of wool over the anus, and a tight T bandage, as it relieves pain most materially and prevents any tendency to straining. It is advisable to commence by operating upon those piles that are situated interiorly, as the patient lies, in order that the others may not he obscured by blood, but when the hemorrhoids are numerous, and there are small piles, either anterior or dorsal, it is better to tie the small ones first, as otherwise they may be overlooked. After the operation, the bowels should he confined for three or even four days. I find a solid one-grain opium pill, given as soon as the vomiting after the ether has ceased, and repeated twice, at inter- vals of two hours, the best article to begin with; afterwards a draught containing laudanum may be substituted. The diet, until the bowels have acted, should he light—spoon-diet in fact. After the bowels have operated, a more liberal allowance of food should he made; I usually begin with fish, followed by meat the next day. I always advise entire abstinence from wine, beer, or spirits, unless there is some special condition indicating the necessity for their nse.. On the third or fourth night after the operation I order a mild aperient, such as the German licorice-powder, followed the next morning by a hot Seidlitz draught. The first action of the bowels is gene- rally rather painful, and sometimes exceedingly so. A hot linseed poultice applied to the anus immediately after the stool, mitigates the pain and comforts the patient. The ligatures separate about the sixth or seventh day. I generally give a gentle pull at them daily, commencing the day after the bowels are first relieved; by this plan the ligatures always separate on the fifth or sixth clay. The patient should be kept lying down during this period; in fact, the more he observes the recumbent position until his wounds have healed, the better. This usually occurs a fortnight after the operation ; in very severe cases it may of course be longer before the wounds cicatrize. The dressing which I employ is of the simplest: a small piece of cotton-wool saturated with oil, or smeared with zinc-ointment, suffices—but it should be introduced with the greatest care and gentleness through the anal orifice. On the night of the ope- ration, the patient may be unable to pass urine, owing to reflex spasm in his urethra; the urine must then be drawn off with a soft catheter, or he will pass a restless night. During the second week after operation, I always make a point of introducing my finger, well anointed, into the patient’s bowel, to make sure that there is no tendency to contraction. Should there be such ten- dency I daily introduce the finger, and, if need be, tell the nurse in charge of the patient to repeat the act at night. Such contraction is of no serious moment, as it only affects mucous membrane, and in any case would pass away in time. But it is as well avoided, as it alarms the patient, who may think that he has got a stricture in place of his piles. The most common complication of internal hemorrhoids is fissure or small painful ulcer; pain, continuing long after the bowel is relieved, is its most certain sign. Fistula is a less common accompaniment of piles. When examining a case of hemorrhoids, the surgeon should never omit to pass the finger well into the bowel, to ascertain that no stricture, ulceration, or malig- nant disease is present. Impaction or accumulation of feces in the rectum or colon, is another complication worthy of mention. Lastly, polypus is some- times found in conjunction with hemorrhoids.