77 OPERATIVE TREATMENT OF INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTION. Enterotomy.—This operation was particularly recommended by Helaton, as a remedy for acnte obstruction, and hence is often known by bis name. It was also a favorite operation with the late Mr. Maunder, of the London Hospital, and, as already mentioned, is advised by Mr. Bryant in cases of intussusception for which laparotomy appears unsuited. Mr. Banks, of Liverpool, prophesies that it will be the “operation of the future.” The operation consists in making an incision, usually in the right iliac region, and opening the first distended coil of intestine which presents itself. The wound, is made parallel to Poupart’s ligament and outside of the line of the internal epigastric artery. The external incision should be nearly three inches in length, and the opening in the peritoneum about an inch and a half. The bowel having been exposed, it is drawn gently into the wound, and is fixed to either lip by a row of silk sutures which include the whole thickness of the intestinal wall. A small incision is finally made between the stitches. It is sometimes advised that the operation should be divided into two stages, the bowel being first secured to the external wound, and then opened several days afterwards; but I can hardly conceive of a case in which this delay would be permissible, in which the operation would be justifiable at all: enterotomy is an operation for acute, and not for chronic obstruction. This operation is undoubtedly a simpler, and, except in cases of malig- nant disease, probably a somewhat less dangerous one than laparotomy, but, on the other hand, can in most cases serve only as a palliative or eutha- nasia] measure. It might effect a cure in some rare cases of volvulus, and might afford time for recovery by sloughing in some cases of intussus- ception, but obviously could not be expected to give permanent relief in cases of internal strangulation. Its statistics have been investigated by Peyrot, who has tabulated 86 cases, to which Mr. Treves has added a sum- mary of 23 more. Of the whole 109 cases, 26 are said to have ended in re- covery and 83 in death, a mortality of 76 per cent. But if cases of malignant disease are excluded, 61 operations gave 20 recoveries and only 41 deaths, a mortality of but 67 per cent. As an operation secondary to laparotomy, enterotomy may be required in cases of obstruction by a foreign body or gall-stone, stricture of the intestine, irreducible invagination, etc. The operation then receives the name of laparo-enterotomy. It may also be resorted to in certain cases of lumbar colot- omy, when, after the colon has been opened, it is found that the obstruction is at a higher point. Under these circumstances it may be the best practice, as advised by Mr. Morris and Dr. Coupland, to open the peritoneum through the lumbar wound, draw out a coil of small intestine, and make it the seat of an artificial anus rather than make a second wound elsewhere. Colotomy, an operation designed to establish an artificial anus in the colon, may be performed in different ivays. Thus, the sigmoid flexure may be opened in the left iliac region (as originally suggested by Littre in 1710), or the caecum in the right iliac region (Pillore, 1776); the same parts respec- tively may be opened in the left loin (Callisen, 1796), or in the right loin ; or finally the transverse colon may be opened in the neighborhood of the umbilicus (Fine, 1797). The choice of one or other of these procedures should be governed mainly by the nature of the case for which the operation is required. Thus, for congenital defects of the anus or rectum, when the gut cannot be reached from the perineum, Littre’s method (left inguinal colotomy) is usually to be preferred; for strictures or ulcers of the rectum, resto-vesical fistulae, etc., Callisen’s method as improved by Amussat (left lumbar colotomy), is the operation to be recommended ; for stricture, or other form of obstruction in the large intestine at any point higher than the