TUBERCLE OF THE BLADDER. 363 2 Archiv fiir klinische Cliirurgie, Bd. xv. S. 1. Op. cit., p. 31. 4. The results thus far attained by surgical interference, in the cases of women, could scarcely be more satisfactory, and, excepting one instance in which the bladder was accidentally perforated, it does not appear that the fatal termination was precipitated by the operation in any of the cases. 5. In the male, the propriety of operative interference must necessarily always be a more serious question, because of the occasional uncertainty of diagnosis, and because of the gravity of the undertaking necessary for the removal of the growth. Nevertheless, the results thus far attained by operation are most encouraging, and in every way justify a repetition of the same. 6. From a number of autopsies, we learn that the successful operations might have been multiplied, first, in those cases in which no operation was attempted, although the growths could have been easily removed, and with apparently every prospect of success ; and, again, in those in which the operation was too long deferred, and which,, it is reasonable to assume, would have terminated successfully had the same been under- taken at an earlier period. 7. Given a positive diagnosis of tumor, the absence of severe secondary symptoms should be no excuse for deferring the operation. On the contrary, the earlier the growth is removed the better the prospect of complete recovery. With a healthy bladder and kidneys, cystotomy is not so dangerous an operation as to warrant any delay. 8. Evidence strongly pointing to the existence of a tumor, with severe catarrhal symptoms, or with spasm of the bladder and much suffering, will often justify an opera- tion ; for if a tumor be found, its extirpation will afford the only chance for life ; and if no growth exist, or the bladder be occupied by an irremovable cancer, the cystotomy may at least afford temporary relief from suffering. In concluding this description of tumors of the bladder, I wish to lay stress on what Professor Volkmann speaks of as “the bimanual exploration of the bladder.” The following is an account of the method, from Mr. CouIson’s, work:—1 This is effected by passing two fingers of the left hand as far as possible into the rectum, the patient being under the influence of chloroform. An assistant places both hands above the symphysis, and makes pressure downwards and backwards towards the rectum. When the adipose tissue is not very abundant, and the bladder nearly empty, the superior fundus of the organ is brought near to the fingers. If anything abnormal is felt, the surgeon passes his right hand carefully under the hand of the assistant, and endeavors to ascertain more closely the nature of the object. By this plan Professor Volkmann asserts that he has been able to detect the presence of a calculus no larger than a bean. The manipulation must, however, be conducted as gently as possible. In one case it was evidently the cause of ecchymoses, found after death, in the coats of the bladder. The introduction of the hand into the rectum for the examination of the bladder lias recently been employed. It is a practice which can only be adopted under very exceptional circumstances. Few surgeons possess a hand sufficiently delicate and tapering to permit of their practising this manipula- tion without inflicting considerable damage; though Dr. G. Simon2 asserts that in no instance has permanent incontinence of feces been the result. For examining the interior of the bladder, we are provided with a variety of sounds and other instruments which it will be unnecessary to describe here. Tubercle of the Bladder. Tubercle of the bladder is to be included among its rarer affections. It is most frequently met with in adult males between the ages of twenty