233 LITIIOLAPAXY. from that sturdy old lithotritist of the old school, Ivanchich. In France, Guy on is loud in its praises. In America, Van Buren, Caswell, and a host of others in the States and in Canada, have given it their warmest adhesion, while reports are beginning to come in from other sections of the globe. J. G. Iverr1 announces that the operation has taken root in his Missionary Hospital at Canton. P. J. Freyer2 praises it from India, reporting 111 cases. Zamcarol,3 from the hospital in Alexandria, Egypt, announces 14 cases with 2 deaths. II. Blanc4 lias made two reports from Bombay, one of six, a second of ten cases, all successful. G. E. Post5 * has furnished a case from Syria. These have fallen under my notice, and doubtless many more have escaped me. It is rare that a word of serious discontent is heard, although minor criticisms on the operation are not infrequent. In France, I believe that the operation has not been warmly received except by Guyon. Reliquet does not approve it. The history of litholapaxy is that of lithotrity. Indeed, the pioneers of old lithotrity set for themselves the task of freeing the bladder of the debris made by the lithotrite, and invented special spoon-shaped scoops, acting like lithotrites, to effect this object. Civiale’s sittings, very long at first, decreased in length as the operator gained in experience, and had become reduced to the conventional two or three minutes when Thompson took up the banner in England. Heurteloup® strove to clear the bladder at a single sitting, and publicly announced this to be his especial aim, but he had no anaesthetic, and his methods were rough and did not find favor. Heurteloup,7 indeed, stated in so many words that it was not proper to crush a stone, and then leave the fragments in the bladder, but that the object of the operation ought to be to free the bladder of all debris and send the patient away cured. Kirmisson8 has forcibly brought out the fact that Heurteloup aimed at evacuation fully as much as at crushing, since he proposed a new name for the operation—“ Lithocenose” (m0o?, stone, and extraction). Leroy d’Etiolles,9 before the Academie des Sciences, April 27, 1846, announced that he could extract from the bladder at a single sitting a stone thirty-five mil- limetres in diameter (something over 1^ inch), and at the same meeting boasted of success by the method of immediate extraction in over a hundred cases. Yet this method never gained favor. Anaesthesia had not been dis- covered. The means employed to evacute the debris were crude and me- chanically imperfect. In the hands of the general operator, much damage must have been done which was never recorded, and even the prince of opera- tors, Civiale, gave up the method entirely, reducing his sittings to a very short limit. Heurteloup, before the end of his career, gave up the effort to relieve the bladder in one act, and short sittings repeated at intervals became the universal practice in lithotrity. Heurteloup went to England and introduced French lithotrity there, and in 1831 he published a hook in London on the principles of the operation. But the champion of English lithotrity is alive to-day. Sir Henry Thomp- son has done more in his day and generation for the operation than any one except Bigelow, and, indeed, it looked at one time as if Thompson were slowly working up to the method of rapid evacuation now in use, when the 1 Medical News, April 7, 1883, p. 382. 2 Lancet, Feb. 28,1885, p. 378. 3 Soc. de Cliirurgie, 7 Dec., 1881; Le Progres M^d., 10 D(ic., 1881. 4 Lancet, July 10, 1880, p. 49, and May 27, 1882, p. 857. 5 Ibid., July 9, 1881, p. 47. 6 De la lithotripsie sans fragments au moyen des deux proc6d€s de l’extract.ion immediate ou de la pulverisation immediate des pierres vesicales par les voies naturelles. Paris, 1847. 7 Memoire lue a l’Academie Imperiale de Mddecine de Paris, pp. 301-9. 1857. 8 Des modifications modernes de la lithotritie, p. 4. Paris, 1883. 9 Comptes rendus des Seances de l’Acad^mie des Sciences, t. i. p. 709. 1846 ; and Gaz. Med. de Paris, 2 Mai, 1846, p. 354.