INJURIES AND DISEASES OF TIIE URETHRA. 526 fever: it is also given for the purpose of prevention, the evening before and the day of operation. This is an excellent practice, which has not perhaps all the anti-febrile efficaciousness which has been attributed to it, but which it is well to continue, if it be only to act on the morale of the patient. Curative Treatment.—When urinary fever has once appeared, its treatment is most frequently medical, but sometimes surgical. As soon as a frank attack occurs, it is necessary to warm the patient up, and to provoke sweating by making him take stimulants; a warm infusion rendered slightly alcoholic, and especially tea with a little rum or brandy added. The sulphate of quinia, in small doses frequently repeated, ought always to be employed. When the attack is over, it is well to administer a saline purge. In the continuous-remittent form, and in the chronic form of urinary fever, the treatment varies according to the condition of the digestive tract. It is of prime importance to take pains to sustain and feed the patient; milk diet often gives good results. For the renal pains which are met with in some cases, cataplasms, or dry or cut cups, may be employed with success. The appearance of one or more paroxysms of urinary fever may be an express indication for surgical interference, whenever the surgeon judges that interference to be capable of suppressing the cause of the fever. These con- ditions exist in cases of obstruction to the voiding of urine—strictures, tumors of the prostate, etc. Urethrotomy, divulsion, or the retention of a catheter, may then cause the immediate disappearance of the febrile paroxysms. Exclusive of these conditions, the appearance of fever is often a contra- indication to all operative acts; but it is necessary to distinguish between the different clinical types of urinary fever. Frank, acute attacks, or the continuous-remittent fever, are only temporary contra-indications, which only compel the surgeon to defer the time of operation tor a few days. But urinary fever in its slow form, indicating advanced alterations of the kid- neys-, may be an indication to modify the method of operating as—for ex- ample, to substitute lithotomy for lithotrity—or even to abandon all idea of interfering, when the duration of the fever, the renal pains, the alteration of the urine, and the general condition, testify to an already advanced degree of the renal lesions.