34T CYSTITIS. American Journal of tlie Medical Sciences, April, 1879- * Lancet, Feb. 23, 1878. tion, if the surgeon is holding the catheter he sometimes feels a slight click, or shock, which the patient with a sensitive bladder is conscious of, and which, though it is very momentary, he rather dreads on the next occasion that the operation has to be repeated. Guthrie refers to these sensations as “ the fluttering blows of the bladder.” He speaks of them as simulating stone and indicating the presence of sacculi. The click seems to be caused by the mucous membrane being sucked into the eye of the catheter as the bladder is emptied of the last few drops, for I have never noticed it when using a solid instrument, such as a bougie. It is to be avoided by carefully watching the flow, and, as it is terminating, by withdrawing the catheter till the end is well within the prostatic urethra. It is better to do this than to obviate the inconvenience by having a catheter with several small openings, as such an instrument is liable to break. A catheter for washing out the bladder should have the eyes of moderate size, with their edges bevelled like those of the American instrument, so as not to scratch the urethra; the openings should be as near to the end as possible to avoid the introduction of an unneces- sary length of tubing. To cleanse the bladder, injections of tepid water with about ten grains of borax to the ounce are generally employed: when the urine remains in an unhealthy condition for some time afterwards, one drop of nitric acid or five of the tincture of perchloride of iron in half a pint of warm water may be substituted with advantage. When the urine is muco-purulent, after cystitis consequent on stricture or stone, injections of quinine are often beneficial. Attention was first called to the value of this drug in these cases by Mr. Nunn,1 who speaks of its acting- as a bactericide in the chronic form of cystitis known as catarrh; when the urine is purulent and offensive, it has been found exceedingly efficacious. The neutral sulphate of quinine, dissolved in distilled water, in the propor- tion of two grains to the ounce, will be most suitable. If the solution is not quite clear, a drop of dilute nitro-muriatic acid is to be added, and then it should be strained. A quantity not exceeding two ounces may be injected by a catheter and rubber bottle, the patient being instructed to retain the* injection, if possible, for a time, provided that doing so he not distressing- The internal administration of quinine, in ten-grain doses, has not only been found to act as a sedative to the bladder, but is useful in arresting putrefactive- changes in the urine. Its efficacy for this purpose has been urged by Dr.. Simmons, who, in explaining the nature of this action, refers to an observa- tion by Dr. Kerner, that seventy per cent, of the drug is eliminated by the- ld dvieys in from three to twenty-four hours after it has been taken.2 To alleviate the extreme irritability of the bladder which often remains after the more active symptoms of inflammation have passed away, a solution of morphia, injected into the organ by means of a gum-elastic catheter to which a ball-syringe has been attached, often gives the patient a good night after rectal suppositories in various forms have been tried without success. For a similar object, I sometimes employ in these cases vesical pessaries,, containing either morphia or belladonna, or other soothing agents. These are passed into the bladder by means of a specially adapted catheter in which the pessary is placed. With this instrument the whole of the urine is first drawn off, after which, by pressing the stylet, the pessary is projected into the bladder. The pessaries are made with oleum theobromie, and are so shaped as to fill in the open end of the catheter, thus giving it the appear- ance of an ordinary instrument. The shape of the pessaries is shown in the figure (Fig. 1287, A). A grain of morphia introduced into the bladder in.