136 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE RECTUM. The preliminary dilatation usually suffices to cure a fissure or painful ulcer. It is rarely necessary to divide the muscular fibres at the time of an opera- tion by ligature, since dilatation has come into use. A fistula must of course be laid open. An accumulation or impaction of feces must be broken down and got rid of before the day of operation, as otherwise the wounds will not heal kindly. A few words must be said as regards the treatment of hemorrhage after operations in internal hemorrhoids. Primary hemorrhage, if the operation be carefully done, is very rare; occa- sionally, when large and very vascular hemorrhoids are ligatured, and there is also much superabundant skin cut away, a small vessel will bleed when the patient recovers from shock. This is a trivial matter, and a ligature is easily applied. Secondary hemorrhage is of more serious import, and occurs generally in elderly people of broken-down constitutions, or in those who have been very free livers. As far as my experience goes, this hemorrhage is usually more venous than arterial, and occurs at or about the time of the separation of the ligatures. I have found it utterly futile in cases of secondary hemorrhage to try and place a ligature around the vessels; it is usually the large veins or venous sinuses which are opened by sloughing or ulceration, and when the surgeon introduces a speculum and tries to find the source of bleeding, he can only see that the whole rectum is filled with blood, and on passing his finger will feel a quantity of clots. The best mode of arresting this form of hemorrhage is as follows:— Pass a strong silk ligature through and near the apex of a cone-shaped sponge, and bring it back again, so that the apex of the sponge is held in a loop of the silk. Then wet the sponge, squeeze it dry, and powder it well, filling up the lacunae with powdered subsulphate of iron. Pass the fore- finger of the left hand into the bowel, and upon that as a guide push up the sponge—apex first—by means of a metal rod, bougie, or penholder, if nothing better can be got. This sponge should be carried up the bowel at least five inches, the double thread hanging outside of the anus. When it is so placed, fill up the whole of the rectum below the sponge, thoroughly and carefully, with cotton-wool well powdered with the iron. When the bowel is thus completely stopped, take hold of the silk ligature attached to the sponge, and while with one hand the sponge is pulled down, with the other push the wool up. This joint action will spread out the bell-shaped sponge like opening an umbrella, and will bring the wool compactly together. This plug may remain in from a week to a fortnight or more. A male catheter passed through the centre of the sponge, with the wool packed around it, is a great improvement, as it enables the patient to pass flatus. Retention of urine will occur after this packing, but may be relieved with a catheter. Stimulants are best withheld until reaction has set in. Opium should always be freely exhibited after the introduction of the plug, as otherwise straining will be set up. As soon as it can be taken, nourishment is to be given, and Liebig’s cold soup, which can be quickly prepared, I have found a wonderful restorative. Hot liquids, I need scarcely say, are to be avoided. As soon as a patient can take solid food, he should have it, but it should be nourishing and easy of digestion. The drugs which I prefer are the tinctura ferri perchloridi and the liquor ferri peracetatis, as these are not only haemo- statics but also blood-repairers.