515 CONDITIONS WHICH MAY COMPLICATE DISEASES OF THE URETHRA. urethro-penile fistulse are limited to disturbances occurring in micturition and in ejaculation. The urine Howls at each micturition either altogether or in part by the fistula; similarly, the spermatic fluid may escape by the ab- normal channel in variable quantity. Thus the diagnosis of these fistulfe is generally extremely easy. Nevertheless, in some cases of very narrow fistula, barely permitting the escape of a slight leaking of urine, doubt may be pos- sible ; in such a case the escape of urine ought to be provoked by compress- ing the glans at the moment of micturition, and by surrounding the penis at the level of the supposed orifice of the fistula with a fine and well-dried piece of linen so as to collect the smallest quantity of urine. Finally, as in the case of perineo-scrotal urethral fistulse, it may be useful to complete the diagnosis of urethro-penile fistulse by determining exactly their form, their extent, and their direction, which can he easily done'by exploring the fistula while a sound is in the urethra. Prognosis.—Less serious than other urethral fistulfe, in the sense that they are usually exempt from complications and less frequently accompanied by secondary alterations in the bladder and kidneys, urethro-penile fistulfe none the less offer a serious prognosis, because of the sometimes insurmount- able difficulty which is encountered in curing them. Although in a general way large fistulfe are harder to cure than narrow fistulfe, nevertheless very small fistulfe are often seen to resist every method of treatment, and to be obliterated only after long and patient efforts. Treatment.—As for other fistulfe, the first indication consists in restoring to the urethra its normal calibre. This first point secured, the-fistula itself is to be attacked, and the numerous operative procedures which have been devised with the object of closing the accidental opening, bear witness to the difficul- ties which are met with in practice, and which I have referred to in con- nection with the prognosis of urethro-penile fistulfe. The retention of a catheter and the intermittent use of bougies, which sometimes suffice to bring about the cure of other urethral fistulfe, remain powerless in the treat- ment of urethro-penile fistulfe, but they constitute very useful, and even indispensable, adjuvant measures after operations practised upon the fistula. These operations are very numerous, and I shall refer the reader, for their detailed description, to special treatises on the diseases of the urinary passages. There have been employed for urethro-penile fistulfe: 1, cauteri- zation; 2, urethrorraphy; 3, urethroplasty. 1. Cauterization.-—This method is hardly ever suitable, except for fistulfe of small dimensions. It is practised with either solid or liquid caustics, or with the hot iron. As it is an innocent method, and easy of application, it may be well to employ it at first in the treatment of narrow fistulfe, giving the preference to the hot iron. Although cauterization fails very often, it has, nevertheless, furnished a certain number of successes. One ought not to persist too long in the employment of this method, for fear of increasing the size of the fistula. 2. Urethrorraphy.—Various methods of urethrorraphy have been devised. I will describe that which appears to me much superior to all the others, and which is almost analogous to the procedures employed by Voillemier and Verneuil. In this method (Fig. 1353), instead of freshening the edges of the fistula themselves, the freshening should be carried out upon the skin and the subcutaneous tissues which surround the fistulous orifice for a distance of half a centimetre, so as to bring together surfaces and not edges. As to the suture, one may use either the twisted suture, like Voillemier, or the interrupted metallic suture, like Verneuil, taking care that the pins or the wires pass obliquely through the wdiole thickness of the lips of the incision wound, but without involving the mucous membrane. Although the apposi-