385 HYPERTROPHY OF THE PROSTATE. the bladder, which probably contributed towards a fatal result. In cases of largely distended bladder, in enfeebled persons suffering from prostatic enlarge- ment, it is a point for consideration whether the whole of the urine should be removed at once. Where the distension is great—for instance,' when the collection amounts to several pints—it is better not to empty the bladder sud- denly. The objections to the removal of a large quantity of urine at once, are these : in an enfeebled person it is apt to be followed by syncope, or, when the pressure is thus suddenly removed from the bloodvessels of the parts, by passive hemorrhage into the bladder. Such a loss of blood has proved fatal in a few days. These effects are similarly observed after the rapid removal of fluid from other parts of the body. Syncope, after tapping for ascites, is not uncommon, and cases have been observed in which the withdrawal of the ascitic fluid has been immediately followed by fatal hsematemesis. Further, the bladder is more likely to regain its muscular power when it is gradually emptied, than when it is suddenly reduced to a flaccid condition. Hence it is a good rule, in the case of a feeble person who, for some days, has been suffering from retention, and whose bladder is considerably distended, to draw off' the urine by degrees. The size and direction of the prostatic enlargement sometimes render the introduction of the catheter impossible, and then the question arises as to what had best be done. Forced catheterization—by which is meant driving the instrument through the obstruction, and thus entering the bladder—has been advocated, but is a proceeding not to be recommended. Tapping the bladder, which will be referred to hereafter, is the proper remedy under these circumstances. In cases of difficult and frequently needed catheterization arising from an enlarged prostate, it is the practice of some to retain an instrument in the bladder by tying it in, or by some other contrivance rendering it self-retain- ing. As a rule, this is not desirable, retained instruments often proving great sources of annoyance to the patient. If, from the extreme irritability of the bladder, it seems desirable to try this plan, it is best effected by securing the instrument with tapes, and then affixing a piece of rubber-tubing to the end, sufficiently long to permit the urine to be conveyed, as it is secreted, into a receptacle by the patient’s bedside. The plan of bladder-drainage advocated by Mr. Chiene, to which reference has already been made, will be found most comfortable, as well as effectual. The annoyance produced by a retained cath- eter can be reduced to a minimum by the observance of scrupulous care in washing out the bladder, and in removing all extraneous sources of irrita- tion. As a rule, but little advantage will be found in these cases from the various forms of self-retaining instruments, such as winged catheters and the like. Incontinence of urine is a phrase often made use of in connection with the set of symptoms to which an enlarged prostate gives rise. We understand by it, that the bladder is full—so full that it is actually overflowing; it is another indication for the use of the catheter. In connection with this subject it may be mentioned that prostatic enlarge- ment may, by inducing certain changes in the urine, lead to the formation of a calculus, the symptoms of which are masked by those of the original dis- order. Further, the hypertrophied gland, by concealing the stone behind it, may prevent the ready detection of the latter by the sound. It is a good rule in all these cases, when the opportunity occurs, to examine the bladder for stone, and not forget to explore, by reversing the searcher, the depression which so frequently exists behind the enlargement. I will now pass on to notice the treatment of those extreme conditions of prostatic hypertrophy in which the enlargement and cystitis combined render vol. vi.—25