INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE URETHRA. 498 seen (Fig. 1348) a more or less deep groove, which begins at the glans, and ends deep under the pubic arch. At this point there is a sort of infundibulum, formed above by the skin of the abdominal wall, which passes under the pubis assuming little by little the appear- ance of a mucous membrane, and below by the urethral groove. This infundibulum leads to the orifice by which the urine escapes, limited below by the most re- tracted portion of the urethral groove, and above by a muco- cutaneous fold, in the shape of a crescent with its concavity down- wards, and continuous by its extre- mities with the skin which covers the lateral parts of the penis, and the mucous lining of the mem- branous portion of the urethra. The appearance of the groove varies at different points. At the level of the glans, vestiges of the fossa navicularis are found, a sort of fusiform depression with three longitudinal ridges, one of which is median and the other two lateral, separated by two folds of the mu- cous membrane. Approaching the bladder the mucous membrane assumes a deeper color; it presents a number of lacume of Morgagni, and is insensibly blended with the skin which covers the penis. The well-formed corpora cavernosa are united in the median line, especially at their lower surface. They are sometimes separated at their upper surface, and are often atrophied. In a specimen which Dolbeau had the opportunity to dissect and inject, he found an arrest of development of the spongio-vascular portions of the urethra, of which only traces remained. The rest of the canal was normally formed. Functional Disturbances.—When epispadia is incomplete, the functions are usually little disturbed. Even complete epispadia is not necessarily accompanied by a continuous and involuntary escape of urine. Some patients can hold it, but they have an imperfect stream, divided or scattering, which soils their clothing and wets the neighboring parts. An epispadian seen by Chopart, was obliged to urinate squatting, and the liquid escaped in a stream of parabolic curve. But usually there is more or less complete in- continence of urine, the true cause of which is not yet perfectly understood. When the penis is drawn away from the abdominal wall, the urine, instead of dribbling out, escapes by a stream, which seems to indicate a certain accumulation of this liquid in the bladder. In some patients incontinence ceases as soon as they assume a horizontal position. It is a curious fact that this incontinence tends to disappear under the influence of an autoplastic operation upon the penis, even at some distance from the bladder. Dolbeau explains this fact by asserting that the presence of a retained catheter restores to the distended and sluggish bladder its normal dimensions and its con- tractility. In this way the patient recovers both the sensation of the need to urinate, and the power to void his urine voluntarily. It seems to me that Fig. 1348. Complete epispadia.