DIFFERENT CLINICAL FORMS OF SPONTANEOUS OSTEITIS. 871 dulla. By freeing the medullary tissue from its hard and inextensible envelope, and by permitting it, by trephining, to dilate when it becomes the seat of physiological hypereemia (in walking, in standing, or because of an elevated temperature), we can prevent or put an end to those pains which nothing hitherto has been able to assuage, or at least to make disappear. There are probably two mechanisms which may be invoked to explain these pains: com- pression of healthy nerve-fibres by the hyperremic medulla, and compression of nerve-fibres which are themselves already affected with neuritis. But these histological examinations are so difficult and delicate, that I can cite only clinical arguments. In all cases one fact is certain, that is, that these pains cease all the better and sooner, the more completely the medulla is liberated, and the larger and more numerous are the openings in the bony wall. In searching for the deep collections of chronic osteo-myelitis which keep up those intolerable pains that slowly exhaust the patient, it is sometimes necessary to traverse with the trephine layers of condensing osteitis two or three centimetres thick. The piece removed by the trephine is then white, and dense as ivory. It must not he supposed, however, that neuralgic oste- itis is characterized by condensation of the bone-tissue. This condensation is usual around old centres of necrosis; it is also seen in the slow forms of spontaneous or traumatic osteitis ; but it is often absent. Sometimes, even, intense and rebellious pains are observed in rarefied, oily, fatty bones, into which the trephine passes easily, and in which neither pus nor sequestrum is found. In a number of such cases which I have seen, the trephine has been the only means of dispelling the pain. Several times, in rarefying osteitis, it has been only after tunnelling the bone (perforating it from side to side) that the pain has completely disappeared. I have, however, observed some cases of painful osteitis, with nocturnal and stubborn pains, notwithstanding the presence of a small fistulous track which allowed the pus to escape. But in cases of this kind I have been able to put an end to the pains, by substituting for these small openings a large one which prevented any retention. Once only have I observed a rebellious neuralgia in an open abscess. There was a cavity in the juxta-epiphyseal ex- tremity of the radius, into which the probe passed freely by two openings. But simply touching the granulating membrane with the probe provoked acute pain. This membrane was the seat of a true hyperesthesia. I removed it by enlarging the cavity, and submitted it for histological examination to my colleague, Prof. Renaut, who found in it an extraordinary new formation of the fibres of Remak. Except in this one case, I have been unable to assign any cause for the pain except strangulation; in open inflammation of the medulla similar symptoms are not observed. Abscesses of Bone.—It is this strangulation which makes acute or chronic CD abscess of the bones so painful. These abscesses, which have been studied especially since the time of Brodie, are seen principally in the juxta-epiphyseal regions of the long bones, and not in the epiphyses, as might be believed from the expression epiphyseal abscesses which was applied to them by E. Cruveilhier. These abscesses are often a more or less remote consequence of osteitis which has suppurated at a previous period. They are explicable by the multiformity of the osteo-myelitis, and by the inequality of inflamma- tion in different parts of the bone. They are often the result of a bi-polar osteitis, one juxta-epiphyseal extremity having suppurated and allowed the elimination of some sequestra, while the other extremity suffered a less degree of inflammation, which did not proceed immediately to necrosis, but which left behind a source of irritation which the usual causes of osteitis rendered active at a later period. Furthermore, these abscesses of bone, consecutive