(759) THE CiESAREAN SECTION AND ITS SUBSTITUTES; LAPAROTOMY FOR RUPTURED UTERUS AND FOR EXTRA-UTERINE FCETATION. BY ROBERT P. HARRIS, A.M., M.D., OF PHILADELPHIA. The Caesarean Section ; Gastro-hysterotomy or Laparo-hysterotomy.1 History.—Although the uniformity of meaning in European languages, viz , the“ Caesar-cut,” would appear to indicate an ancient Latin origin of this operation, there is nothing reliable to prove that this method of delivery either gave a name to the Caesar family, or received its own therefrom. As a 'post-mortem operation,2 there is reason to believe that it antedates the Chris- tian era; and that a Roman law made its performance compulsory, is highly probable, when we consider that when there is no penalty, as in our own day, children are permitted to perish in utero, in cases where the family decline to have the knife used for delivery. Examples of this are remem- bered to have occurred even in the higher walks of life in Philadelphia, and one instance was given by the late Prof. Nathaniel Chapman, where liis offices were forbidden, although fcetal motion was decided and unusually long main- tained. With regard to the claim that the Babylonian Talmud, which was compiled in the fifth century A. D., or possibly earlier, and other Jewish records, provide fora special purification for women who have been delivered by the abdomen, we have only to say that learned Hebrew scholars in and out of the medical profession have held contrary views upon the subject, and that the claim that the Caesarean operation was known and designated in these books, appears to rest upon the value and meaning of a very few Hebrew words, which are capable of being interpreted either for or against it. The views of competent Jewish physicians have usually been adverse to the claim of the measure of antiquity mentioned, and such observers advance the opinion that there has been a misconception of the meaning of these ancient laws of the nation. The early records of the operation are generally regarded as very unreliable, and grave doubts have been cast upon almost every case prior to that ot Trautmann, of Wittenberg, who operated on April 21, 1610, and lost his 1 Synonyms :—Kaiserschnitt (German) ; Kejsarsnitt (Danish) ; Kesarskoe siechenie (Russian) ; Hysterotomie (French) ; Histerotomia cesarea (Spanish) ; Tagleo cesareo (Italian) ; Cieciu cesar- skiem (Polish) ; Operaqao cesareana (Portuguese) ; Section csesarea {Dutch). The term gastro- hijsUrotomie was introduced in 1816, by Prof. Gardien, of Paris. 2 The first direction by a medical writer for the performance of the post-mortem operation, is that of Gui de Chauliac, in his work on surgery, written about the middle of the fourteenth century. He directs that the abdomen should be opened on the left side “ to avoid the liver.”