265 LITHOTOMY. ■seven or eight inches long, with a solid, straight back, a stout shank, and a blade about three inches long having a cutting edge of about an inch and a quarter. Some operators use the scalpel for the deep as well as for the super- ficial incision; but a straight, probe-pointed bistoury with a stiff back is often preferred, or the Blizard knife (Fig. 1249). The English model (Fig. 1250) Fig. 1249. Fig. 1250. ■of the same instrument has a more pronounced probe-point. Other forms of scalpel and bistoury, and cutting gorgets, are still sometimes used. The lithotome cache, has few advocates in this country, but in France it is still popular. An American device, modelled after the well-known instrument of Sir James Earle,1 is that of the late Professor FT. R. Smith, of Baltimore,2 and its claim has been championed by his son A. P. Smith, who has used it with brilliant success. l)r. A. 1'. Smith had operated 69 times at the latest report,3 with two deaths, 63 times with the instrument in question (Fig. 1251). It consists of a rectangular staff, with a knife hinged upon the shaft in such a way that it cannot fail to strike the groove. The staff is introduced, and the hinged knife is made to penetrate the urethra. Upon a groove at the back of this knife the probe-end of a broad cutting gorget, shaped like a wide scalpel, is pushed along. It cannot fail to enter the groove of the staff, and on reaching the latter the end of the gorget drops into a cup- shaped cavity in the end of a watch spring which is so arranged as to travel smoothly along the groove. The gorget, pushed steadily onwards until the end of the groove is reached, makes a cut of definite breadth in the direction of the incision of lateral lithotomy. Among the numerous varieties of forceps used to extract stone there are two types, straight and curved. Forceps should have thin blades, slightly spoon-shaped, so as to embrace the stone and not add materially to its bulk. The extremities of the spoons should not touch when the instrument is closed, so as to avoid pinching the bladder. The inside of the spoons is rough, to pre- vent slipping. They are fairly broad, so that the rough stone may not project much beyond them, and their curve is rather long from before backwards, so ns to throw as much of a wedge-shape as possible into the jaws when charged. The handles are usually crossed, to allow a maximum distention of the jaws with a minimum dilatation of the wound. One of the handles is always a ring for the thumb; the other is sometimes left open to .allow the hand to tit upon the instrument and exercise grasping power and traction more ■effectively. It is well to have at least two sizes of the straight shape. Curved forceps 1 Practical Observations on tlie Operation for Stone, 2d edit., with Appendix. London, 1803. 2 Medical and Surgical Memoirs, by Nathan Smith, M.D., edited with Addenda by Nathan R. Smith, M.D. Baltimore, 1831. A similar instrument has also been employed by Dr. Corbet, of •Glasgow. (Med. Times and Gazette, Dec. 16, 1858.) 3 Gross, System of Surgery, 6th ed., vol. ii. p. 754.