660 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. In one case a blow on the neck led to a violent attack of satyriasis, which lasted three months. Cerebral symptoms were present, and the man died. M. A. Motet has collected some interesting cases of satyriasis:—1 The cure of Cours, a man aged 32, when strenuously endeavoring to lead a re- ligious life, was attacked by strong sexual feelings. He repelled the promptings of desire in the day time, but at night was haunted by lascivious dreams and frequent pollutions. He starved himself to repress his desires, but in spite of this he awoke one morning, his imagination warmed by voluptuous images, and his organs of generation much excited. He became delirious, saw fantastic visions and women in lascivious positions, and finally, succumbing to the promptings of his diseased imagination, a scandal ensued. Cases are mentioned by Ambroise Pard,2 Cabrol, and others, of men who had been poisoned with cantharides. The victims suffered from intense venereal excitement, and had sexual intercourse, repeating the act furiously an incredible number of times. Several of the patients died with gangrene of the penis. A strong young man received a blow on his head, which was followed by cerebral disturbance. When to all outward appearance sane, he set lire to several houses, and eventually strangled and then ravished a child seven years old. In some instances cerebral symptoms come on with delirium, and end in death. A tumor was found after death in the brain of a medical man who was much addicted to lechery. A handsome, old, married clergyman, a schoolmaster, and a ripe scholar, suffered from an attack of lechery. He used to narrate his many conquests, which were pui’ely imaginary, in the master’s common room, and was eventually dismissed, owing to com- plaints by some of the boys that his language was improper. The dismissal so preyed on his disordered mind that he shortly after destroyed himself. Professor Gross attended a young medical man, convalescing from an attack of fever, who indulged so freely in sexual intercourse that in consequence of his enfeebled state he died. Treatment.—The excretory functions of the body should be carefully at- tended to, and the various sedatives administered which are recommended for the treatment of priapism. A course of hydropathic treatment is likely to prove useful. Insane persons with erotic tendencies appear to the uniniti- ated to be needlessly detained within asylum walls, but those acquainted with their histories know their evil propensities too well to recommend their discharge. Priapism.—Cases of priapism are recorded in the medical journals from time to time. In some there is a history of an injury to the part, and extra- vasation of blood, the accident often happening to a tipsy man indulging in sexual intercourse. In others, however, the cause is not at all evident, as there is no history of an injury; it has been noticed after excessive coitus. In some instances sexual desire has existed for some time, but as a rule the erection is attended by uneasy sensations, and even by severe pain. Some cases are due to extravasation of blood, and others are attributed to nervous reflex irritation. Mr. Bryant circumcised a boy aged two years, who was suffering from an erection of the penis which his mother declared positively had existed from birth. He could pass his water freely, but the prepuce was long and adherent to the glans. When eleven months old he had had tetanic fits, followed by wasting of his legs. The operation removed all the symptoms. 1 Nouveau Diet, de Med. et de Chir. Prat., t. xxxii. * CBuvres completes, t. iii. p. 327.