STERILITY. 758 the potentia concipiendi, and the potentia gestandi. The definition of sterility which has been given excludes impotentia coeundi ; if coition be impossible, as from absence, atresia, or stenosis of the vagina, from vaginismus, or from other causes, the woman is said to be impotent, sterility being of course the necessary consequence of the impotence. The various conditions which cause impotence in the female, and their treatment, have already been considered, and therefore no further reference to them is necessary. Conception is the union of normal spermatozoa! and ovule. This union, it is believed from observations made in inferior animals, takes place at or near the ovary, at least in the external third of the oviduct. In studying the causes of sterility arising from impotentia concipiendi, it is necessary to consider first the obstacles which may prevent spermatozoids from reaching the ovules. The seminal fluid after being discharged in the vagina may he expelled by vaginal contractions. Such non-retention has been observed in some of the inferior animals, and there is a popular notion that it is a cause of sterility in the human female, many women in fact attributing their childless condi- tion to it; it has been observed, though not exclusively, in cases where the vagina is broad and short. It is usually attributed to genital erethism, but Duncan thinks it especially common in those sterile women who have not sexual pleasure. It is possible, as in an instance observed by Beigel, that the seminal secretion may be so thick and viscous that the movements of the spermatozoids are hindered ; in the case narrated by him, the injection of a little warm water after coitus ended the sterility. The vitality of the spermatozoids may he destroyed by the acidity of the vaginal mucus ; a knowl- edge of this fact has led to the successful treatment of some cases of sterility by alkaline vaginal injections. The vaginal secretion may by its quantity, as well as by its quality, be injurious to the spermatozoids, especially if the dis- charge of seminal fluid be small. In cervical catarrh, the discharge, which is normally alkaline, may become acid, and destruction of the spermatozoids may result. In other instances the abundance of this secretion washes away the seminal fluid. Urine, especially if decidedly acid, is poisonous to sperma- tozoids ; hence, in part, less liability to pregnancy in a woman suffering with vesico-vaginal fistula. Various theories have been propounded to explain the entrance of the spermatozoids into the uterus; some writers assert that the latter draws in the seminal fluid, but the best explanation is probably to he found in the inherent activity of the spermatozoids themselves, which thus enter proprio motu ; it is possible, too, as claimed by some, that the ute- rine neck has a special excitability, more or less independent of voluptuous sensation, and that this facilitates the entrance of the semen. The various positional disorders of the uterus are regarded as causes of sterility, but some of them act in preventing gestation rather than concep- tion, and in general they are less important factors in the etiology of the sterile condition than the school of mechanical uterine pathology has held. Flexions are less liable in themselves to cause sterility than versions, since they do not change the relation of the vaginal cervix to the vagina; retro- flexion does not hinder conception, hut is frequently the cause of abortion. The liability to sterility in prolapsus of the uterus- is in proportion to the degree in which the organ is displaced; nevertheless, even in complete pro- lapsus impregnation has occurred, coition taking place through the os uteri. Catarrhal disease of the cervical canal is a frequent cause of sterility, either by the quantity of secretion, or its character, or by the accompanying swelling of the plica pahnatce obstructing the canal. A conical cervix is, usually if not always, a cause of sterility; in such a case the external os is usually small, and the cervical canal may be occupied by a thick, tenacious mucus which fur- nishes a mechanical obstacle to the ascension of spermatozoids. Hypertrophy vol vi.—48