VICES OF CONFORMATION OF THE URETHRA. 499 there is here rather a reflex action affecting the sphincter of the bladder, which is reinforced by the construction of the new canal. In regard to the genital functions, erections occur, although feeble ones, even in complete epispadia; but the shape of the penis renders copulation imperfect, and fecundation impossible. Complications.-—Exstrophy of the bladder, which quite often accompanies complete epispadia, has been erroneously considered as an extreme degree of this malformation. But they are in reality two perfectly distinct vices of conformation, following, the one an arrest of development of the external, and the other an arrest of development of the internal genital organs. Nevertheless, exstrophy of the bladder has an obvious influence upon fissure of the whole length of the upper wall of the urethra. Separation of the pubic bones is quite a frequent complication of the vice of conforma- tion which we are studying, and it is easy to recognize it in the living by means of simple palpation. This condition, which may be accompanied by atrophy of the two bones, reduces the patient to a very lamentable condition, because it enlarges the epispadic opening, and prevents the formation of the sphincter. From this there usually results complete and incurable incon- tinence. Separation of the pubic bones is sometimes accompanied by hernia of a portion of the bladder through the epispadic opening, without true exstrophy of this organ. Then there is seen, at the level of the pubic region, a tumor, the size of a nut or small apple, soft, livid, made up of mucous mem- brane, covered with thinned skin, and reducible by pressure. Finally, let me mention, to conclude what refers to the complications of epispadia, atrophy of one of the testicles, and cryptorchidism. Treatment.—The appliances devised for the purpose of remedying without operation the only truly serious disturbance produced by the existence of epispadia—incontinence of urine—accomplish only in a very imperfect manner the capital indication of collecting the urine as fast as it escapes from the epispadic opening. Surgical interference, on the contrary, has succeeded in these latter times, not only in delivering the unfortunate epispadian from a disgusting infirmity, but also in restoring to him an ex- ternal shape of almost perfect symmetry. Dieffenbach first attempted, in 1837—without success, however—to cure epispadia by an operation, and Blandin made, some years afterwards, a new attempt which was no more fortunate. The operative procedure devised by Hdlaton in 1852, afterwards adopted and slightly modified by Dolbeau, although less imperfect than the preceding, furnished only incomplete results. The new canal, formed of exclusively cutaneous flaps, was of exaggerated dimensions, and only rudely suggested the normal urethra. Professor Thiersch, of Leipsic, effected considerable progress by formulating as a principle, as I myself had done for the treatment of hypospadia, to proceed to the repair of epispadia in a series of successive stages. I shall not dwell, however, on the method of this surgeon, by which I have been guided up to a certain point, as well as by that which I have myself devised for the treatment of hypospadia. The following is the procedure which I advise for the surgical treat- ment of epispadia; it may be divided into three stages, comprising: (1) Straightening the penis. (2) Formation of a new canal from the extremity of the glans to the neighborhood of the epispadic opening, which should be let alone as long as the new canal is not wholly formed. (3) Finally, junction of the two portions of the canal. First stage: Straightening the Penis.—It is sometimes hard to obtain perfect lengthening and straightening of the penis, because of the consider- able atrophy of the corpora cavernosa at their upper part. I attempt, as far