410 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE BLADDER AND PROSTATE. of reported eases of diseased bladder; and of these, what are spoken of as cases of nervous disorder form a considerable portion. In the treatment of these affections careful search must be made for any cause which may be remediable. In the absence of such cause, careful regulation of the diet, sufficient employment for both body and mind, and change of scene and climate, are all means which are likely to be of service. In the absence of stricture of the urethra, or other conditions requiring the introduction of instruments into the bladder, I do not consider that functional nerve-disturbances of this kind are benefited by the frequent use of bougies. On the contrary, it is desirable to avoid that concentration of thought upon the sexual organs, which is often a prominent feature of these cases. AY here the case is complicated, as it sometimes is, by a frequent and unna- tural flow of seminal fluid, the irrigation of the urethra with cold water, from the prostatic portion forwards, is generally followed by good results. The mental aspect of these cases must not be overlooked. Plenty of encouragement will be necessary. When the patient is convinced that he is not suffering from any serious organic disease, he will often take courage. If a person be weighed down by the dread of an imaginary disorder, his con- fidence will not be gained by simply telling him, without a reasonable explanation, that he is deceiving himself. On the contrary, by so doing he will rather be driven into the hands of those by whom his fancies will be encouraged and his alarms intensified. These patients require reassurance, and this must be given them, not by dissembling, but by such a rational explanation of their condition as an educated medical man is capable of affording. Puncture of the Bladder. Paracentesis vesicce is an operation of very ancient date, and has been practised in various ways to fulfil either temporary or permanent purposes. A history of the proceeding would show that from time to time there has been considerable fluctuation in opinion as to the best way of performing it. In opening the bladder, advantage is taken of the partial manner in which it is invested by the peritoneum, to effect this object without detriment to its serous covering. Having regard to this object, the bladder may be opened as follows: (1) above the pubis, (2) by the subpubic operation of M. Voille- mier, (3) through the symphysis, (4) from the perineum, (5) from the rectum. Tapping the Bladder above the Pubis.—It will be found that there is a space immediately above the pubic bone, where the anterior surface of the bladder may be reached with a trocar, or even the end of the finger, without wounding the peritoneum. Though this interval varies much in extent, and is increased by the degree to which the bladder is distended, it is a con- dition of this operation, when undertaken from this point, that the puncture shall be made immediately above the pubis. Instances have occurred, in which, this rule having been disregarded, the cavity of the peritoneum has been opened. The supra-pubic operation is probably the safest and most convenient one in cases in which it is tolerably obvious that it will only be required for tem- porary purposes until the bladder can be reached by the natural passage. For fulfilling such an object, the aspirator will be found a most useful instru- ment. Aspiration of the bladder above the pubis has now been so exten- sively practised, and with such good results, that no one would be at all likely to question its utility as a temporary expedient. If in using the