917 SCROFULO-TUBERCULOUS AFFECTIONS OF BONES. For my own part, I believe that there tire two kinds of spina ventosa: one osseous, central, medullary ; the other peripheral, periosteal; and that spina ventosa is always of tuberculous nature. The development of tuberculous follicles in different points of the medulla (the central canal of the bone, the areolie of the spongy tissue, the Haversian canals of the compact tissue, the osteogenic layer of Ollier or sub-periosteal medulla of Ranvier) gives rise to the clinical varieties of this disease in cachectic patients. The more we advance in the study of diseases of the bones, the more we see the ill effects of tuberculosis multiply. I am persuaded that the greater number of cases of periostitis and osteo-periostitis, in children and in ca- chectic adults or old people, are caused by deposits of tuberculigenous para- sites, and by their evolution, which varies according to their peculiar nature, the soil invaded, and the part of the soil in which they collect and remain. I desire no other proof of this than the inoculations of MM. Iviener and Poulet, who have obtained generalizations of tubercle by injecting pus and fungous granulations obtained from a suppurating osteo-periostitis of the fourth and fifth metacarpal bones, from a periostitis of the ribs, and from a periostitis of the great toe.1 I shall consider the macroscopic appearances of spina ventosa hereafter. Seat of Tuberculous Osteopathies ; Correlation with the Laws of Growth.—I have already said that strnmo-tuberculous osteopathies are usu- ally situated in the spongy tissue of the bones which have red marrow; the sternum, the ribs, the bodies of the vertebrae. (Ranvier.) ISTelaton classifies the bones as follows, in regard to the relative frequency of their tuberculous affections: 1st, vertebrae; 2d, tibia, femur, humerus; 3d, phalanges, metatarsal bones, metacarpal bones ; 4th, sternum, ribs, ilium ; 5th, short bones of the tarsus and carpus ; 6tli, petrous apophysis of the temporal bone. The bones which are not mentioned in this enumeration may be classed with those with which they have the greatest analogy in shape and structure. ISTelaton thinks that tubercles occur more frequently in the bony epiphy- seal nucleus than in the expanded extremity of the diaphysis. This may be true of caries following chronic arthritis, and sometimes of encysted tubercle, but in a general way the proposition is not exact, as we shall presently see. M. Ileydenreich, after having remarked that tubercles originate in the centre of the bone-tissue rather than on its surface, adds: “In the long bones, tubercles have a predilection for one of the extremities: in the femur, the lower extremity is oftener affected than the upper; the contrary is the case with the tibia; in the humerus and in the bones of the forearm the extremity most frequently diseased is that which is near the elbow7.” Nothing could be more true; but wfhat is the reason? The laws estab- lished by M. Ollier in regard to the growth of the long bones, in regard to the respective part played by each extremity of the bones in this growth, alone account for the elective localization of morbid processes in the bones, lie has demonstrated2 that the long bones increase principally on the dia- physeal side of their connecting cartilage, and that, in the same bone, both connecting cartilages do not take an equal part in its grow'th ; the tibia grows chiefly by its upper end ; the femur by its lower end ; the humerus by its upper end ; the radius by its lowTer end, etc. He has shown, besides, that morbid processes, neoplastic or inflammatory, are implanted where physiological life is most active; that they ought to choose, and do choose by preference, the parts of the bone wdiich contribute most to their growth. Clinical experience verifies every day the justness of these principles, 1 Charles Nelaton, These, p. 127. 2 Ollier, Traite Expfir. et Clin, de la Regeneration des Os.