OSTEOMALACIA AND FRAGILITAS OSSIUM. 945 3 Lyon Medical, 1876. * Op. cit'., p. 114. 2 Loc. cit. Pathological Anatomy.—I shall divide this study into three parts: 1st, phy- sical properties ; 2d, structure; 3d, chemical analysis. 1. Physical Properties.—The description of the physical properties of bones affected with osteomalacia includes: (1) their external appearance and the changes in their power of resistance; (2) the changes of direction which they undergo, in other words, deformities of the skeleton. (1) External Appearance and Changes of Power of Resistance.—In mild cases, the bones may preserve their normal dimensions and color. But in typical cases it is said that their size and their color undergo alteration. They are grayish, dark brown, even purple. Some authors, Stanski among the number, have mentioned, as a constant occurrence, increase in size of the long bones and especially of their extremities, as in rachitis. This increase in size does not appear to me to be so common; it ought to be present when repara- tive processes have taken place under the periosteum, while chronic inflam- mation has caused absorption of the deep layers. Bulbous enlargement is not likely to be present except in young patients attacked with the malady during the period of growth. It is not possible for me to mention all the cases in which this enlargement has been observed. I will give only one as an example. Souligoux1 mentions an enlargement near the head of the humerus. In analyzing this case, it is seen that the patient, who died at the age of 18 years, must have begun to be ill when about 15 years old, and that when about 6 or 8 years old he had a curvature of the spine. In his case the bulbous en- largement would seem to have been attributable rather to rachitis. I see no incompatibility in the coexistence of rachitis and osteomalacia. Why could not the same constitutional cause, during the period of growth, at once prevent calcification of the osteoid products of the cartilages of growth, and provoke decalcification of the bony parts already formed ? I believe that this double action would be the more intense as the preformed bone was more recent, that is to say, the younger the patient was. The uncertain ideas which used to be held in regard to the growth of the bones lessens the value of the old observa- tions. I have not found mention of these juxta-articular enlargements, in adults, in any recent observation. See, for example, the cases of Czerny, Lan- gendorff and Mommsen2 (man of 38 years); case of M. Mondan3 (woman of 48 years); case of M. Wolff (man of 26 years). As to the increase of size of the body of the bones, it may be admitted, strictly, that it may sometimes be real, that is to say, may result from subperiosteal proliferation. If, as everything seems to lead us to believe, osteomalacia is a kind of progressive chronic osteo- myelitis, it is easy to understand this increase. For peripheral increase is one of the well-known signs of chronic osteomyelitis in general. In the cases which are usually examined, the processes of absorption and central medullization have reached their extreme limit, that is the disappearance of all bone- substance, old or new. It is only in cases of slight and localized osteomala- cia, in which the process remains in a manner in the stage of onset, that a real increase in size of the body of the bone can be noted. If the cases pub- lished by Sir James Paget under the name of osteitis deformans are, as I am dis- posed to believe, slight and benign manifestations of osteomalacia, they furnish proof of the possibility of an increase in size of the bones in this disease. In the forms of osteomalacia which I call malignant—in contrast to osteitis de- formans which does not lead to death, while classical osteomalacia is almost always fatal—the increase in size is only apparent, and is merely the result of the bendings and breakings which heap the bone upon itself. Usually, if there is still a shell of bone, with but few fractures, the bone will appear thinned rather than thickened. VOL. VI.—60