ORTHOPEDIC SURGERY. 1086 [Congenital Dislocations. A few words may be said here in regard to the condition known as con* genital dislocation, an affection most often met with in the hip, and very generally confounded with hip-disease. This subject has been particularly illustrated in the writings of Dupuytren, Carnochan, and Holmes, and more recently in excellent articles by Prof. Bennett, of Dublin, Dr. Buckminster Brown, of Boston, and Mr. William Adams, of London. Three theories have been advanced to account for the occurrence of the so-called congenital dislocation of the hip, viz., (1) that it is a true traumatic dislocation, result- ing from injury inflicted before birth or during delivery ; (2) that it is a deformity caused by spasmodic muscular contractions during foetal life, and analogous to .club-foot; and (3) that it is due to a malformation of the ace- tabulum, with consequent displacement of the head of the femur owing to the deficiency of the socket in which it is normally held. With regard to the first theory, it may be said that, though it is not denied that the femur or any bther bone may be dislocated during delivery, yet, as a matter of fact, in most cases of congenital dislocation the labor has been a natural and easy one, and no pain or deformity has given rise to the suspicion that such an injury has been inflicted until long afterwards, not indeed usually until the child begins to walk. To the theory of spasmodic muscular action, of which the chief advocate has been M. Guerin, it may be objected that the affected joint is not found spasmodically contracted or fixed, either at the time of birth or subsequently, but that it continues freely movable in all directions—sometimes abnormally so—and that there is commonly no difficulty, even in inveterate cases, in restoring the head of the bone to its proper place, though it cannot be kept there. The third theory, that of original malformation, was entertained by Dupuytren sixty years ago, and is that which has secured the adhesion of most writers on the subject; it is indeed the only theory that satisfactorily explains the symptoms and course of the affection. Congenital dislocation—the name, though not strictly correct, may be re- tained from motives of convenience—may affect one or both hips. As already mentioned, it is usually not observed until the child begins to walk, when, if one side only is involved, lameness without pain is noticed, and on measurement the affected limb is found slightly shorter than the other; as the child grows older, obliquity of the pelvis and compensatory lateral curva- ture of the spine follow. In double dislocation, the deformity is very strik- ing and characteristic; the hips seem widened, and the trunk as it were sinks in between them; at the same time the pelvis is markedly tilted forward, the sacro-lumbar vertebrae becoming almost horizontal, with extreme lordosis and prominence of the belly, and the patient walks with a peculiar rolling or waddling gait which is of itself almost diagnostic. The treatment of congenital dislocation of the hip is usually unsatisfactory. The limb can without much difficulty be pulled into position, but the defec- tive acetabulum will not retain the head of the bone, and it slips out again as soon as the part is left to itself. That a cure is possible, is shown by a remarkable case reported by Dr. Buckminster Brown, of Boston, in which, by the adaptation of ingenious mechanical apparatus, the head of the femur was kept in its proper place until by pressure it had effected so much deep- ening of the acetabulum that there was no longer any tendenc}7 for it to escape. The treatment extended over more than a year, and though the result was a complete success, it could not have been so but for the fortunate combination of a patient much more reasonable and enduring than most