956 SCROFULO-TUBERCULOUS AND OTHER STRUCTURAL DISEASES OF BONES. section less frequently than one would believe. The great softness of the pelvis lends itself to the spontaneous or assisted passage of the foetal head. Kilian, Robert, Schmitz, Hugenberger, Olshausen, Kezmarsky, Breslau, Fas- bender, Pullen, Krassowsky, Winckel, Scbieck, Weber, and Ebenboff have found, during life and in the cadaver, pelves so distensible as to be expanded by the foetal head like India-rubber, to which Schieck has given the name Gummi-Becken, India-rubber pelves or elastic pelves. In both forms, puerperal and non-puerperal, when osteomalacia passes through its extreme stages, the most varied functional disturbances are seen to be added to the disorders already mentioned in connection with the loco- motor apparatus. Dyspnoea comes on and increases, as well as bronchitis and congestion of the lungs. The circulation becomes more and more disturbed, in proportion as the deformities of the trunk increase the interference with the functions of the lungs, of the heart, and of the large vessels. In the femme Schoeff, the arch of the aorta had a double curve (Th. Drouineau). ■ The imperfect supply of blood, the anaemia due to confinement to bed and to insufficient assimilation, and the mechanical obstacles to the return of the blood, cause oedema of the limbs, and of the dependent parts, and render the patients dropsical. (Volkmann.) The digestive functions are disturbed also, for the same reasons which lead to anaemia and cachectic oedema. The patients often have diarrhoea and vomiting towards the end; cachectic fever comes on, and after a variable time—generally a long one—after having been better and worse intermittently, the patients succumb in a state of marasmus. Some- times thrombosis ends the scene suddenly. In the last stages of the disease there are often profuse sweats. I have already spoken of the effect of soften- ing of the lower jaw, which renders mastication impossible, and so hastens death ; that is, of course, provided that the patient is not nourished with liquid food, and, if necessary, by the oesophageal tube and with nutritious enemata. The Marquise d’Armagnac lived a long time on liquids. Dujet reports that he saw a squirrel die of starvation, being affected with osteoma- lacia and unable to crack its food. The intelligence ordinarily remains unaffected in the midst of this deca- dence of the organism, in spite even of the participation of the cranium in the disease. Yet there are cases in which the subjects have shown some imbecility or dementia towards the end. Such, for example, was Czerny’s case. At the autopsy, both hemispheres of the brain were found to be hyperaemic, with superficial ecchymoses, enlargement of the ventricles, etc. Finkelburg1 saw two cases of osteomalacia, following parturition, in which the patients were attacked with melancholy, and afterwards with incurable mania, with a predominance of hallucinations of hearing. It was thought that these psychical disturbances were caused by compression of the brain by the basilar process of the occipital bone, which was pressed up against the brain in consequence of the softening of the neighboring bones. I have not spoken yet of the state of the urine, which has a certain position in the clinical picture of this disease. Since the phosphates are lessened in the bones, they must be eliminated from the organism, or take refuge some- where (accidental calcifications, renal and vesical calculi). The most natural route of elimination being that of the urine, it is not astonishing that this excrementitial liquid often contains an excess of phosphates. Litzmann has also found in it an excess of carbonates. Billroth says that the phosphates which pass into the blood are eliminated from it in great part in the form of oxalate of lime. Other equally conscientious observers have arrived at opposite 1 Osteomal. mit Irrensein (Allg. Zeit. f. Psychiatrie, Bd. xviii.).