URINARY CALCULUS. 212 recently lias reported 24 lithotrities in male children. In 7 no tube was used. In the 17 litholapaxies, the patient’s age in one was 20 months, in one 2 years, in one 3, in one 4, in live 5, in two 7, in three 8, in one 10, in one 12. These 10 patients recovered. The seventeenth was subjected to three sittings, and died. Small instruments were used, and the time of the operations varied from 4 to 70 minutes. Such success leaves little to desire, hut until more numerous operations are tabulated at the hands of many operators, it will be more prudent for the general surgeon to cut male children before puberty than to attempt litho- lapaxy. As to what cutting operation shall be adopted in the child, the advocates of the median and lateral operations both claim the field, but the statistics of the lateral are better than those of the median, particularly for large stones. When the stone is quite small and the bladder not much inflamed, for anatomical reasons the median section is perhaps preferable. Female children of whatever age may be treated by litholapaxy. The urethra may be dilated, and the straight or curved tube used. I have operated once, upon a girl of four years, with ease and success. In the male after puberty, until the most remote period of life, there is nothing in the age of the individual which contraindicates litholapaxy, while the mortality under lithotomy is shown by all tables to increase steadily with the patient’s age. (2) The State of the General Health.—In case of general disease, it becomes often a serious matter to decide whether to subject the patient to any radical operation, or simply to use palliative measures. ISTo rules can be laid down. The surgeon’s general knowledge and experience must guide him. Some distinctions, however, may he made. Thus in diabetes, lithotrity might he justified where lithotomy would be out of the question. In Bright’s disease it may be difficult to make a choice. The existence of moderate, chronic, organic changes in the secreting portion of the kidney does not contraindicate operations upon the bladder, although it somewhat affects prognosis. Advanced renal disease of any kind increases the risk of all operations. (3) Local Condition of the Genito-urinary Tract.—Such conditions are diseased states of the kidney, the bladder, or the urethra. Chronic pyelitis, with dila- tation of the ureter and pelvis of the kidney, and with more or less of the accompanying interstitial changes in the secreting substance of the kidney, has the gravest influence in operations upon the urethra and bladder. More- over, it is a condition not uncommon as a complication of some of the mala- dies which give rise to stone (prostatic hypertrophy, urethral stricture), and worse than all, it is a malady which often cannot be accurately diagnos- ticated. Thompson has devoted a chapter to this subject, recognizing its paramount importance, and the difficulty, often the impossibility, of diagnosis. This condition may be assumed to exist when the general health is poor, the mouth dry, the tongue pasty ; when the pus in the urine is more thick and greasy than usual, and settles into a dense solid layer at the bottom of the vessel; when the specific gravity of the urine is light and its quantity not very great; and when there seems to be more albumen in the urine than the pus will account for. Such assumption of organic kidney changes may be made even if there are no casts in the urine, and no pain upon pressure in the region of the kidney, or along the ureter on either side. When the last-mentioned set of symptoms exist; the diagnosis becomes nearly certain; but in the absence of all of them, kidney changes cannot be said to be absent in any case of prolonged chronic cystitis in a patient