INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE RECTUM. 106 for any sinus running up beyond the internal opening; if such exists, it must be laid open. Search is next made for lateral sinuses extending from the outer opening; also for any burrowing outwards beyond the same point. A fistulous orifice is often not at either end of the sinus, but somewhere in its Rig. 1186. Spring-scissors with probe-point in grooved director. course. The part should be carefully examined to see if there is a secondary sinus running from and beneath the main track. Frequently, in fact nearly always, in old-standing cases, the deeper sinus does exist, and unless it be incised with the rest, the patient will not get well. When all the sinuses are slit up, the surgeon wdth a pair of scissors (Fig. 1187) takes oft' a portion of the overlapping edges of skin; they are often thin Fig. 1187. Scissors for removing overlapping edges of skin in operation for fistula. and livid, having very little vitality. If not removed, they will fall down into the •wound and materially retard the healing process. I have frequently in- duced healing in a fistulous track which had been only laid open, by paring oft" the edges of the skin which were undermined. In old-standing cases, where there is much induration, it is very good practice to draw a straight knife through the dense track of the fistula, and outwards beyond the external open- ing; it, is wonderful bow rapidly quite cartilaginous hardness passes away after this has been done. This incision was practised by the late Mr. Salmon, and is called his “back cut.” Having completed the operation, the surgeon takes some absorbent cotton-wool, and with a probe packs it \vell into the bottom of the wround, packing it into every part, and being the more particular about this if the incisions have been extensive, or pass high up the bowrel, or if the parts are very dense and gristly, and especially in cases operated on for the second time. Of course, if a large vessel is seen spirting, it is secured either by a ligature or by torsion before packing. The last step is to place a good firm pad between the buttocks, over the wTounds, and a T bandage to exert pressure on it. The most painful form of fistula, but at the same time fortunately the most uncommon, is the blind internal fistula. I have seen many cases wdiere the aperture wras one third of an inch in diameter. The feces, wchen liquid, pass into the sinus and create great suffering, a burning pain often lasting all day after the bowels have acted. In operating upon a blind internal fistula, if the surgeon can feel by the