INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. 608 just as the swelling is beginning to subside. It is not due to metastasis, but most probably to some blood infection, as the swelling of the parotid gland does not subside more rapidly on its appearance, and cases have been noticed in which orchitis has occurred without any inflammation of the parotid or before its appearance. On the fourth day of the orchitis, the testicle is two or three times its normal size, very hard, tender, and, as a rule, unaccompanied by hydrocele. Atrophy supervenes weeks or months after the attack. In some cases, fortunately, the atrophy is arrested, and the testicle recovers its normal size and plumpness; more often it persists; the other testicle may become hypertrophied. Atrophy of both testicles is followed by impotency ; atrophy of one testicle by diminution of sexual power. Children are not attacked by orchitis when suffering from mumps, but an appreciable number of adults are, the onset of the complaint being occasionally ushered in by acute deli- rium. In a few instances meningitis has been met with as a complication. Professor Laveran, of the Val-d e-Grace Hospital,1 in 432 cases of mumps observed among soldiers, noted 156 examples of single or double orchitis;. one case of double orchitis occurred to live or six cases of single. Out of 111 cases, atrophy occurred in 73. Mr. A. R. Manby’s patient,2 a man aged 19, a servant at a school where an attack of mumps was epidemic amongst the pupils, was seized with orchitis of the right testicle,, which was ushered in by rigors and sickness. Twenty-four hours afterwards he had inflammation of both parotids. In one of Dr. Clement Duke’s cases,3 the orchitis ap- peared on the first day of the illness, the parotids not being affected from beginning to- end, hut only the submaxillary glands. Dr. Hall’s patient, a hoy aged 1G, had reached the fifth day of the disease, and the parotitis had disappeared, when he was attacked with meningitis ; this began to decline on the eighth day, when acute orchitis set in, which, however, subsided in a few days more. M. Lereboullet showed before the Societe des Hopitaux4 a soldier, aged 22, in whom a curious transformation had followed an attack of cynanche parotidaea. Four days after the appearance of mumps double orchitis came on, and the testicles swelled to the size of a fist; this passed away in three days, and soon afterwards the mumps also dis- appeared. In twenty days each testicle was atrophied to the size of a small almond, the epididymis remaining normal; sexual desire was lost; the mammary glands became enlarged; the hair on the face ceased to grow, the chin becoming smooth. In syphilitic orcliitis the atrophy is slow, and the microscope shows that the lesion has its seat in the reticular tissue which surrounds the seminiferous tubules ; these then atrophy as the result of pressure. In the orchitis follow- ing mumps or masturbation, the atrophy goes on with rapidity, the epididy- mis often remaining intact. Under the microscope, the tubules, which are alone affected, present a notable hypertrophy of their internal coat, with atrophy of their epithelial lining, and disappearance of their lumen. The sclerosis is parenchymatous and not interstitial. Rheumatic Orchitis.—In patients subject to rheumatic pains, Mr. Curling lias noticed the sudden appearance and disappearance of inflammation of the testicle. Dr. Macleod noted in his work on Rheumatism, published as far back as 1842, cases of rheumatic inflammation attacking first one testicle and then the other. In 1861 M. Bouisson5 reported some cases of the same kind. M. Reclus states that a man aged 61, who suffered from double rheumatic orchitis, lost both his testicles from atrophy. The pain in rheumatic orchitis is acute, attended with heat and tenderness, but no swelling, and, like rheu- matic affections elsewhere, comes and goes suddenly. 1 Gaz. des H6p., 1878. * British Med. Journ., vol. ii. p. 584. 1877. 3 Lancet, vol. ii. p. 744. 1881. 4 Gaz. des Hop., Aout, 1877. 6 Tribut a la Cliirurgie, t. ii. Montpellier, 1861.