961 OSTEOMALACIA AND FRAGILITAS OSSIUM. malacia. (Volkmann.) But it is very rare for the diffusion of the neoplasm not to have been preceded by a carcinomatous tumor in some organ—the breast, the uterus, etc.—or circumscribed in some part of the skeleton. I have so often, in the course of this article, indicated the differences between rachitis and osteomalacia, that it would he a useless repetition to recur to them here. Professor Liicke, of Strasbourg, has recently proposed percussion of the bones as a means of diagnosis between caries and necrosis. It may be seen from Piorry’s Traite da plessimetrisme, and from the monograph on softening of the bones by Souligoux, his pupil (1866), that the Professor of Clinical Medicine in Paris taught that all diseases of the bones—fractures, luxations, atrophy, hypertrophy, tumors, etc.—could be diagnosticated and marked out by means of mediate percussion. I refer the reader, for further particu- lars, to the writings of this author and his pupils, restricting myself to saying that Piorry assigns a malacic sound, dull, not ringing, to bones affected with the disease which we are studying. Happily there are other means besides percussion for diagnosticating diseases of the bones. Prognosis and Course of Osteomalacia.—Always sad, says Volkmann, and all the more sad because death, which is almost always the end of this terrible malady, usually lingers long. In women, as we have seen, a first preg- nancy may bring- on the most serious developments of osteomalacia. But usually this" is not the case, a first confinement awakening only moderate ischiatic and sacro-lumbar pains, which hardly lead to the suspicion of osteo- malacia. Then, when the lying-in is over, there is a remission, even an appa- rently complete recovery. As the disease does not interfere with any func- tion—neither menstruation, fecundation, nor gestation—the woman remains apt for conception. If new pregnancies occur, the disease returns with each, increasing in severity from pregnancy to pregnancy, and thus progressively reaching its height. The history of the femme Supiot is a classical example of this advancing course under the influence of the puerperal state. The cases in which, on the contrary, the disease ameliorates during a new pregnancy, are excessively rare; but they are undeniable. (Volkmann.) Here is an example: Winckel, the elder, had attended a woman affected with osteomalacia, and had employed the Csesarean operation to deliver her in one confinement. In the course of another gestation this women died. Winckel, the younger, found at the autopsy that death has been due to rupture of the uterus at the seat of the cicatrix left by the Caesarean section, and also that the osteomalacia which had made this necessary had been entirely cured. All the bones which had been soft and extensible had returned to the normal state; the bones of the pelvis were even more massive and harder than usual. There were osteophytes in a number of places; and synostoses, the result of fractures, were found at the sacro-iliac synchondroses.1 Therefore recovery is not im- possible in the puerperal form. Nevertheless, we must not feel too hopeful when the process is seen to suspend its progress or even to retrograde. It is a perfidious retreat, from which it is the rule for the disease to return with increased intensity. Death ends the scene, less from the progress of the changes in the hone itself than from the disorders and functional disturbances which are its consecpience: slow asphyxia, stoppage of the heart, broncho- pneumonia, embolism, thrombosis, impossibility of taking food, diarrhoea, profuse sweats, etc., and the whole train of the malacic cachexia. Treatment of Osteomalacia.-—Therapeutics can do little in osteomalacia. We can only relieve the patient, and delay the fatal progress of the disease, by the following means:— 1 Winckel, Monatsclirift f. Geburtsh., Mai, 1864. VOL vr.—61