INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE RECTUM. 138 couch, before running about. If there be any intestinal irritation, I order small doses of mercury with chalk, and rhubarb, at bedtime, and steel wine two or three times in the day. When the child is very ill-nourished, cod- liver oil does much good; the diet should be nutritious and digestible. If these mild measures do not succeed, I find the application of strong nitric acid the best remedy. The child should be anaesthetized, and the protruded gut well dried. The acid must be applied all over it, care being taken not to touch the verge of the anus or the skin. The part is then to be oiled and returned, and the rectum thoroughly stuffed with wool; a pad must after this be applied outside of the anus, and kept firmly in position by straps of plaster, the buttocks being by the same means brought closely together; if this precaution be not adopted, when the child recovers from the anaes- thetic, the straining being urgent, the whole plug will be forced out and the bowel will again protrude. When the pad is properly applied, the straining soon ceases, and the child suffers little or no pain. I always order a mixture of aromatic confection, with a drop or two of tincture of opium, so as to con- fine the bowels for four days. I then remove the strapping, and give a tea- spoonful of castor oil. When the bowels act the plug comes away, and there is no descent of the rectum. In procidentia in the adult the mass is sometimes very large; I have seen it in a woman larger in circumference than a foetal head, and seven or eight inches in length. I have had, in my own practice, many cases of procidentia in which there was a hernial sac in the protrusion, and in all it was situated anteriorly, as from the anatomy of the part, of course, it must be ; the intes- tine could be returned from the sac, and it went back with a gurgling noise. As soon as the bowel protrudes, a hernia can be recognized by the fact that the opening of the gut is turned towards the sacrum ; when the hernia is reduced, the orifice is immediately restored to its normal position in the axis of the bowel. I have never found such a hernial protrusion in a child. In very old and bad cases of procidentia, more or less incontinence of feces always exists, owing to loss of tone in the sphincters and loss of sensitiveness in the altered mucous membrane. Thus when fecal matter reaches the lower part of the rectum, the sphincters are not stimulated to action, nor is the patient aware of its presence. The most satisfactory operation for proci- dentia in the adult with which I am acquainted is that recommended by Van Buren, which I perform as follows:— The patient is etherized, and the procidentia is drawn fully out of the anus by the volsella; I then make four or more longitudinal stripes, from the base to the apex of the protruded intestine, with the iron cautery at a dull red heat. I take care not to make the cauterization as deep towards the apex as at the base, because near the apex the peritoneum may be close beneath the intestine, while a deep burn near the base is not dangerous. I take care to avoid the large veins which can be seen on the surface of the bowel. If the procidentia is very large, I make even six stripes. I then oil and return the intestine within the anus ; having done this, I partially divide the sphincters on both sides of the anus with a sawing motion of the hot iron, and then insert a small portion of oiled wool. From the day of operation I never let the patient get out of bed for anything ; the motions are all passed lying down, and consequently the part never comes outside. If the wounds have not all thoroughly healed in a month, I continue the recumbent position for two weeks more, by which time it very rarely happens that cicatrization is not complete. The patient can then arise and get about, but still for some time I enjoin that evacuation of the motions should be accomplished lying down. The reason for the success of the treatment is simple enough. When the burns are all healed, the bowel by contraction of the longitudinal stripes is drawn