( 527 ) INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. BY H. ROYES EELL, E.E.C.S., SURGEON TO, AND DEMONSTRATOR OP OPERATIVE SURGERY AT, KING’S COLLEGE HOSPITAL, LONDON. Injuries and Diseases of the Penis. Wounds of the penis are to be treated o.n general principles. The wound is to be well sponged and freed from clot, dirt, or any foreign body, the bleeding stopped by means of fine catgut or other ligatures, or by torsion, and the edges of the cut placed in accurate apposition by fine sutures not passed too deeply. The wound may be superficial, and the bleeding but slight; if, however, the dorsal vessels be divided, it may be free for the time, but is easily arrested by tying the vessels and dressing the wound. Blood may be effused under the skin and produce a dark-colored swelling like a traumatic aneurism. If the body of the penis is deeply incised, the after- consequences are grave, as the organ, owing to the substitution of fibrous for the firm trabecular tissue of the part, becomes bent in erection. The case is much aggravated if the urethra be injured as well as the body of the penis. M. Baudens recommends an incision of the required depth to be made directly opposite the point of curvature, in order to procure a cicatrix capable of counterbalancing the evil caused by the injury. Incised wounds of the penis are made longitudinally by the surgeon for the division of strictures, for the extraction of urethral calculi or of foreign bodies introduced from without, and in the median operation of lithotomy. The bleeding is free at times, when the tissue of the bulb, or its artery, which is readily tied, is wounded. The most common direction for wounds of the penis to take is the transverse or oblique; they are at times inflicted by jealous women, and often by patients themselves, in cases of monomania. Owing to the mo- bility of the part and the toughness of its fibrous tissue, and possibly to the want of sharpness of the instrument used, the wound is very irregular and the mutilation imperfectly performed. Monomaniacs display great determination in committing self-mutilation, and often effect the separation of the parts with singular instruments. My brother, Dr. John II. Bell, met with the following case :— An Irishman castrated himself with a pair of blunt nail-scissors ; the hemorrhage was great, but would have been greater had a sharper instrument been used. The whole of the external genitals, including the scrotum, penis, and testicles, were removed; the urethra was cut straight across ; there was a clean surface, and urine was retained as before. He subsequently grew fat and sleek, and sank into a state of satisfied imbe- cility.