639 FUNCTIONAL DISORDERS OF THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. resembles alkali-albumen, or casein ; paraglobulin, which is deposited from its solution by magnesium-sulphate and by carbonic-acid gas; and myosin, which is thrown down from a dilute sodium-chloride solution by the addi- tion of a dilute acid. Mucin is also obtained in small quantities by the addition of acetic acid to an alkaline solution. The peculiar albuminoid substance, spermatin, is probably a mixture of paraglobulin and lecithin. The extractives from the aqueous and alcoholic extracts are, leucin, tyrosin, urea, kreatin, and inosite. Dr. Treskin has found a peculiar organic acid, the composition of which he does not give. The same observer has also found kreatinin, probably formed by the decomposition of kreatin. The fats consist principally of a mixture of neutral fats, together with lecithin and cholesterin. The salts consist principally of sodium and potassium chlorides, potassium sulphate, and especially of calcium and magnesium phosphate. Fig. 1377. Spermatozoon of the salamandra maculata. (a) a long-pointed head, (b) an elliptical structure, (c) a long filiform body, (d) a fine filament extending beyond the body, (e) a homogeneous membrane. Dr. Heneage Gibbes, in his articles on the structure of the vertebrate sper- matozoon,1 states that a spermatozoon consists of a long-pointed head (a), at the base of which is (b) an elliptical structure, joining the head to (c) a long filiform body; a fine filament (d), much longer than the body, is connected with this latter by (e) a homogeneous membrane. The head, as it appears in a fresh specimen, has a different refractive power from that of the rest of the organism, and with a high power appears to be of a light green color; it presents also a central line, from which it appears to be hollow. The ellipti- cal structure at the base of the head connects it with the long thread-like body, and the filament seems to spring from it. Whilst the spermatozoon is living, this filament is in constant motion, waving from side to side. The connect- ing membrane is only visible in fresh specimens, and disappears entirely on the application of glycerin. After placing the spermatozoon in a five-per-cent, solution of chromate of ammonium, the body and filament, as also the ellipti- cal structure, can be stained with one color, while the head will take another. This is best shown by staining the spermatozoon first deeply with htema- toxylin, when it will be found that the body, filament, and elliptical struc- ture show the color well, but the head scarcely at all; on staining it then in a weak solution of aniline blue, if it be not left in this fluid too long, the head will be found a bright blue, while the body, filament, and elliptical Quarterly Journal of Microscopical Science, New series, vols. xix. and xx.