LITHOTOMY. 275 are not out of place—although a milk diet generally answers for the latter. A chill and more or less fever before suppuration sets in are not infrequent, and a laxative upon the third day is often serviceable. After suppuration occurs, and granulations cover the wound, but little pain is experienced, and recovery is merely a matter of time. The causes of death in fatal cases are much the same as those which have already been considered in speaking of lithotrity (p. 215), except that hemor- rhage and shock naturally play a larger part here than in the non-cutting operation. Rouxeau estimated that severe bleeding occurred in one-seventh of all cases operated on, and Begin charged 25 per cent, of the had results that followed lithotomy to hemorrhage.1 Infiltration of urine is also more likely to occur than after the crushing operation, and therefore cellulitis, septicaemia, etc. Obstacles Encountered before the Operation.—Aside from the questions of renal or other organic disease, and of the condition of the heart and lungs as bear- ing upon anaesthesia, three minor obstacles have been encountered by surgeons when considering the question of perineal lithotomy, viz., an impassable urethra, an obstacle to the left perineal incision, and a rickety pelvis. (1) If the urethral obstacle be an anterior stricture, internal urethrotomy will over- come it; if a tight, deep stricture, it may be divided as the first step in litho- tomy, which should then be median. Furneaux Jordan, in such a case, made his diagnosis by acupuncture through the perineum, and cut his patient with- out a guide. If the obstacle be a prostatic lobe or tumor, perineal lithotomy may still be performed with the secondary object of removing the growth as one of its steps. (2) In some cases of ancliylosed hip-joint the thigh is drawn across in such a way as to make section of the left half of the perineum im- possible. I have seen this, the section being made in the median line. Gross reports that Pope, of St. Louis, cut a patient toward the right side in such a case, and he refers also to Zeiss’s dilemma, who found a congenitally displaced testicle in the left side of the perineum, and so cut to the right. (3) In rickets the pubic and ischial rami may leave a slit between them so narrow as mechanically to oppose lithotomy. In such a case the narrowness has only to be appreciated to immediately suggest supra-pubic lithotomy, for 'the bladder would necessarily be high up. Thompson notes the case of a boy of four years, whose antero-posterior pelvic diameter was only an inch, and yet whose stone was extracted through the perineum. Complications during Perineal Lithotomy.—Most of the complications likely to occur in perineal lithotomy are identical, whether the section has been lateral, bilateral, or median, and they may therefore conveniently be con- sidered here. Such complications as shock, heart failure under an anesthetic, etc., need not be referred to. The patient who died of fright, while Desault was tracing out with his finger the proposed line of incision upon the perineum, cannot properly be classed among the victims of lithotomy. Complications occur during the operation, after it, and as an ultimate result. 1 Villeneuve, Rev. de Cliir., t. iii., Sept. 1883, p. 665.