754 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE FEMALE GENITALS. of the uterine neck may also cause a woman to be sterile; tears of the neck, when followed by sterility, are less often themselves the factors than are the disorders which they produce, or which are associated with them ; such inju- ries may lead to abortion or to premature labor, and thus interfere oftener with gestation than with conception. Anteflexion with dysmenorrhoea is a frequent cause of congenital sterility. Impregnation has frequently occurred in cases of cancer of the cervix, and the pregnancy is not liable to be inter- rupted if the disease does not extend beyond the internal os. Failure in the development of the uterus is a cause of sterility. This is not a frequent cause, Beigel's statistics showing that in one hundred and fifty-five sterile women, there were only four with a uterus infantilis; Kisch1 found sixteen in two hundred. Admitting that spermatozoids may pass to the point where conception normally occurs, disturbances in ovulation and the migration of the ovule may prevent the union, or, this having occurred, the transmission of the ovum to the uterine cavity. The ovaries may be absent, or insufficiently developed, and in either case ovulation is necessarily absent. Ectopia of the ovaries may prevent the liberated ovules from entering the oviduct. Certain cachexias, as those arising from the prolonged use of alcohol or of opium, or from intermittent fever or tuberculosis, may prevent ovulation, or may lead to the formation of imperfect ovules. Fat women are liable to sterility, pro- bably from an imperfect development of ovules. Women suffering from ovarian tumors are sterile, according to Veit, in the proportion of twenty per cent.; nearly one-half of those who have ovaritis are sterile. While menstruation is usually associated with ovulation, and is therefore regarded as its indication, yet the latter may occur without the former, as is shown in the case of girls who have been impregnated before menstruating, or of nursing women who conceive though the menstrual flow has not re- appeared since labor. Ahlfeld reports the case of a woman who bore eight children, and had never menstruated. Nevertheless, as a rule, a woman who lias amenorrhcea is sterile. Displacements of the oviduct, catarrhal swelling of its lining membrane, and accumulation of the products of salpingitis in its canal, cause sterility by preventing the transmission of the ovule from the ovary, or of the ovum to the uterine cavity. Instances have occurred in which a marriage has been sterile for years, and yet when each partner has sought a new alliance, reproduction has followed. A soil may he unsuitable for one kind of grain, and yet be quite productive when another is planted in it. L. de Siiffity suggests that in such cases of rela- tive sterility the explanation is found in the physiological differences of the ovules or of the spermatozoids of the different subjects; thus in the case of the ovules, they may be difficult of penetration by spermatozoids, while the spermatozoid of one man may be much more active, may have more force, than that of another. A temporary or partial sterility follows the birth of male children, Pfankuch’s statistics showing that with 240 married couples to whom 166 boys had been born, an interval of thirty and two-tenths months occurred before the next child was born, while after the birth of 134 girls this interval was only twenty-seven and four-tenths months. Impotentia Gestandi, or Unfitness of the Uterus for Incubation.—The most frequent cause of acquired sterility, as far as the uterus is concerned, is uterine catarrh; the inflammation of the lining membrane of the uterus renders that membrane unfit for the attachment or nutrition of the ovum, or may give rise to hemorrhage which results in abortion. The development of the 1 See his elaborate article Sterilitdt in the Real-Encyklopadie der gesammten Heilkunde, Band xiii.