CONDITIONS WHICH MAY COMPLICATE DISEASES OF THE URETHRA. 509 have a tendency to flow back toward the urethral orifice, which after that could cicatrize. It need not be mentioned that these different operations, as well as the plastic methods above mentioned, would be altogether contra-indicated in cases of urethro-rectal flstulse symptomatic of organic diseases of the rectum or prostate. (2) Urethro-perineo-scrotalFistulce. Etiology.—■Urethro-perineal and urethro- scrotal fistulte are of all urethral fistulre the most common. Their causes are very numerous. Contrary to what we shall find in regard to urethro- penile fistulie, these rarely follow wounds of the perineal or scrotal region, at least when the wounds are clean cut, and not complicated with infil- tration of urine. Under opposite circumstances, in consequence of urinary phlegmons of the perineum and scrotum, caused by wounds of the urethra, one or more fistuhe may be seen to persist. Whilst the various operations of perineal lithotomy, the perineal boutonniere, and external urethrotomy, are rarely followed by fistuhe, traumatic ruptures and lacerations of the urethra by contusion of the perineum, causing vast abscesses or very extensive urinary infiltrations, are, on the other hand, often thus complicated. We have just seen that, even in cases in which urethro-perineo-scrotal fistulre have a traumatic cause, inflammation, suppuration, and urinary infiltration play the most important part in establishing the fistulous track. It is conceivable from this, that inflammations or infiltrations of urine developed without any traumatic cause may produce the same results. Simple or virulent urethritis, by provoking the formation of glandular or peri-urethral abscesses, opening at the same time into the urethra and on the exterior, has, in certain rare cases it is true, determined a urinary fistula. Ulceration of the urethra by a calculus or by a catheter, may end by com- pletely perforating the canal, and may thus' cause a urinary abscess or an infil- tration of urine, which in turn will give rise to one or several fistulee. But one of the most frequent causes of perineo-scrotal fistula resides in the presence of an inflammatory or traumatic stricture. We have already studied the different secondary lesions which are produced behind the coarc- tation of the urethra, and which result in the formation of urinary abscesses, of urinary pouches, of infiltrations of urine, and which sometimes even cause sudden and more or less complete rupture of the canal at the moment of an effort at micturition. It is these different anatomical alterations which pre- pare for the formation of fistuke, consecutive to strictures. Although the urinary fistuhe which we are studying may be established under the exclusive influence of the different causes just enumerated, and in subjects apparently in very good health, it should be admitted, with Cocteau, that a bad constitution—a general weakening produced by constitutional diseases, such as phthisis—may favor in a certain measure the development of fistulee. Finally, it is found that urethro-perineo-scrotal fistuhe are often multiple. In a certain number of cases these multiple tracks are established at once, as when, for example, there are fistulas consecutive to an extensive urinary infiltration, this having given rise to a number of openings which have con- tinued to give exit to urine. In other circumstances fistulie may be multi- plied in the following manner: The more or less long, sinuous, anfractuous track retains at each micturition a small quantity of urine, which inflames the tissues and sets up small abscesses, followed by burrowing, and finally by secondary sinuses, which soon open upon the skin and constitute new fistulre. It may also happen that the cutaneous orifice of a fistula, more contractile than the deep orifice and the walls of the sinus, is momentarily contracted or even obliterated ; whence arise retention of pus and urine in the