TUMORS OF THE BONES. 998 form an important part, an inflammatory irritation continues without cessa- tion ; the local phenomena are modified, and a cancroidal, intra-osseous transformation occurs. The mechanism is certainly the same as in the can- croidal degenerations of old ulcers of the tongue, and of old ulcers of the leg or other part (cancroid following old issues), so that theoretically bone-tissue ought not to be primarily the seat of an epithelioma. The objection indeed is only apparent, since it may be admitted, in fact, that the transformation begins in the skin, more or less depressed and invaginated at the bottom of the sinuses; that the medulla and the bone-tissue are affected secondarily; and that it is especially on account of the structure of the medullary tissue that rapid infection follows. I am the more willing to admit this view, because, in a patient seen in my hospital service, and in whom there was a primary epithelioma of the left femur, with old fistulous tracks, the skin surrounding one of these was manifestly the seat of epitheliomatous granula- tions, over a space the size of a franc-piece. I examined some of these granu- lations microscopically, and they belonged to the variety called lobulated epithelioma. In such cases the pains are sometimes quite severe, and the bone appears to be the seat of hyperostosis; it may even acquire a considerable size, but the shape of the hyperostosis, and especially the history, do not admit of the supposition that the tumor is an osteosarcoma. The constant sign is the escajie of a more or less abundant, sanious, fetid liquid. The fetor of the excreted products is extreme; they have the peculiar odor of the secretions of epithelial cancer. But it seems that, from the fact that the lesion is situated in a cavity accessible to the air, as is also the case in cancers of the orifices and of the natural passages of the body, they acquire a peculiar degree of fetor. It is first by the odor, as M. Ollier has justly pointed out, that the diagnosis is established. In some autopsies that surgeon found the medulla of a whitish-yellow hue, transformed into a veritable sebaceous material, and with a certain consistence which made it comparable to a stick of wax. Any of the bones may be affected wTith primary epithelioma. M. Levrat, an cigrege of the Faculty of Medicine, has reported to me the case of a patient in whom the calcaneum w7as the seat of a primary epithelioma. There was an opening in the skin on the outer side as large as a fifty-centime piece, leading into a vast cavity in the bone. There was a flow of sanious and fetid liquid (a fetor sui generis) from this orifice. The patient had been treated up to that time for osteitis. She declared that the affection had begun in the deep tissues. Esmarch and aSTicoladoni have also reported cases of epithelioma developed in the cloacae of necrosis. The prognosis is extremely grave. On account of the diffuse ctnaxacter of the lesions, if the surgeon can interfere in time, disarticulation should he preferred to amputation in the continuity. In a man forty years old, who had been subjected a year before by Pro- fessor Desgranges to amputation for an epithelioma of the leg following an ulcer, the amputation being done at the point of election, there wTas a recur- rence after a few months. When I saw the patient, who had entered my wards in the hospital, the tumor reached up to the knee-joint, and there were extremely acute pains in the stump, probably from epithelial infiltration and compression of the sciatic nerve. As the patient was already cachectic, and had enlargement of the lymphatic glands of the groin, I did not think it right to practise disarticulation at the hip-joint, but amputation in the middle of the thigh. There was recurrence in the wound by the time it had cica- trized, and the patient succumbed some months after the operation. Secondary epithelioma occurs especially in the face and in the legs. In