APPENDIX. 1118 training-school, as she is thus more intelligent and useful in regard to duties that involve relations between her department and the nursing service. For the sake of unity and harmony of management, the training-school is best placed under the control and regulation of a competent medical super- intendent, with trained assistants for the management of the nursing service. The organization of training-schools by associations outside of hospitals has been invaluable, hut the attempt to manage the nurses of a hospital by such an outside organization, raises difficulties that are very trying and danger- ous to the welfare of both the school and the hospital itself. At the same time, as qualified medical superintendence cannot always be had, because of the political disorders of public institutions, it may be fairly questioned sometimes whether the less desirable method will not best insure the stability of the school in such hospitals. Special Hospitals.—It is not necessary to consider the great variety of special hospitals for the care of more or less chronic cases, or those which may be as well treated in general hospitals which have well-arranged pavi- lion-wards for the proper classification of diseases. The principles of con- struction would be the same in either case. What are called fever hospitals may be more largely composed of specially constructed, comparatively small, detached pavilions. The same necessities belong to hospitals for smallpox, besides the need of isolating the hospital itself. The Royal Commission of Great Britain regards it as essential, that atmospheric dissemination should be guarded against, and that no more than 30 or 40 patients should be placed together in one locality. Dr. Burclon Sanderson has recommended large one-story annular wards, 56 feet in diameter, with a central ventilating chamber 20 feet in diameter, around which twelve beds are arranged, with low partitions between them. The patients face the windows in the outer wall, thus reversing the better arrangement of the Antwerp Hospital, and Billings’s plan for octagonal wards. The recent experiment of isolating smallpox-cases on hospital-ships has been satisfactory, and a large tent-hos- pital was used in the country near London, in 1884, to receive convalescent smallpox-patients from the city. Maternity hospitals have an especially lamentable history of disastrous results, particularly on the continent of Europe. The immunity from-danger to puerperal women, in English hospitals, has been referred to, and is due to isolation and the allowance of ample space. Some excellent results have been gained in recent years in the small maternity pavilions, of one or two stories, of some of the Paris hospitals. They are arranged with rooms for one bed each, and the principle of construction is, that the entrance to every room is from the outer air, the doors opening upon an open veranda. Military hospitals are generally temporary constructions, heated by stoves, and with simple ridge-ventilation as already described. There are a few army-hospitals of a more permanent character, of wffiich the Barnes Hospital is the best example. (See Figs. 1525 and 1526.) A simpler arrangement, on the same general plan, is the approved one for post-hospitals of the U. S. Army. The use of extensive aggregations of temporary barrack-pavilions, or of hos- pital-tents to form long wards, for temporary use in time of war, needs no special description here. There are in the United States a few marine hospitals, which are excellent examples of the pavilion plan—notably the one at San Francisco. Naval hospitals in this country, before the Civil War, presented no distinc- tive architecture, but subsequently two or three have been built on the pavi- lion plan; two of these are at Philadelphia. Haval vessels have been used from time to time as hospital-ships, usually in charge of line officers. The