969 OSTEOMALACIA AND FRAGILITAS OSSIUM. Haversian canals. The bony trabeculae of the spongy tissue first become very thin, and end by disappearing. The bone is then reduced to a parch- ment-like shell pierced with numerous vascular openings.”1 There is no occasion to confound this state of fatty atrophy—which is pro- duced still more quickly in the same conditions in old people—with fatty degeneration of the bones. The fatty condition of the bones in obese persons is not preceded or accompanied by rarefaction of the proper bone- tissue, or only to a slight degree. Lipoma of the bones is extremely rare, and its existence is even questioned by Virchow, who regards it as an exostosis containing large masses of fatty marrow. However this may be, there is present in such cases a circumscribed fatty tumor, and there are no bony partitions in its substance. In concentric atrophy, the bone diminishes in size from without inwards, the transverse diameter, the thickness, diminishes. The long bones are not shortened, or only to a slight degree. The essential process of this sort of atrophy is little understood. It is probable that it consists in progressive and insensible medullization of the superficial layers of bong, and in the ab- solute cessation of all periosteal proliferation. Concentric atrophy does not exist alone, it is accompanied by eccentric atrophy, for the bones, the size of which is lessened, always have an enlarged medullary canal; and this double effect of the same process ends in rendering the bones more light. In adult animals, M. Mondan found the bone, after an amputation, affected with slight atrophic modifications. The total size of the bone “ undergoes a reduc- tion inappreciable by measurement, but one which nevertheless is obvious to the eye;” it becomes in fact “the normal reduction of the bone.” (Ollier.) “It is reduced in all its dimensions, in its apophyses, in its ridges. At the same time its medullary canal is enlarged, and undergoes whatTCurling calls eccentric atrophy; but these phenomena are a long time in being mani- fested, and before they are clearly appreciable to the sight, weighing alone can enable one to decide the question.”2 Atrophy of the bones is due to two principal etiological causes: inactivity and senility. As examples of the first category of cases, I will mention the atrophies of bone which are seen in old palsies, and in chronic inflammations and prolonged suppurations of the bones and joints, which, because of pain and the requirements of treatment, condemn the limbs for a long time to rest. I will cite also the diminution of capacity of the natural osseous cavi- ties, the contents of which disappear or diminish; for example, the diminu- tion of capacity of the orbit after wasting or enucleation of the eyeball; the diminution of capacity of the cotyloid cavity after an unreduced luxation of the hip, a diminution which may be rapidly carried so far that the head of the femur, which undergoes little concentric atrophy, can no longer be replaced. This is not a matter of retractility of the bone-tissue, as has been asserted.3 It is a general rule that portions of bone out of use undergo atrophy. Thus, as Curling4 has said, the bones, like the soft parts, fade away and waste when their activity is lessened or their function is suppressed. This author thinks that atrophy ought in some of these cases to be attributed to a diminution of the nervous influx,5 but usually to a lowering of the circulation. As an example, he cites eccentric atrophy—accompanied by absence or retardation of consolidation—of the fragments which, in fractures of the femur, do not keep the nutrient artery of this bone. He is mistaken in including osteo- 1 Ibid., p. 389. 2 Mondan, op. cit., p. 139. 5 See Richet, Anatomie Chirurgicale. 1 Carling, loc. cit. 6 J. Wolff, anticipated'as we see by Curling, lias just published a work in which he makes atrophy of bone to depend upon an osseous troplio-neurosis.