URINARY CALCULUS. 170 1853, observed two small calculi of saponaceous nature, and subsequently two large ones were taken after death from the same patient; and Vitlau1 has added another, in which the stone was as large as a bean, to the cases already known. Ultzmann,2 finding no urostealith among the thousands of stones which he has examined, concludes that this substance is a foreign matter which has been introduced from without, and therefore that it is not a true calculus. Thus it appears that urostealith lias only been encountered in four patients. It consists of a yellowish or brownish material, which dries into a waxy-looking mass. It seems always to be associated with a deposit of earthy phosphates, both interstitially and often as a distinct, external layer. Indigo Calculus.—Ord3 has described the specimen of indigo calculus which he showed to the London Pathological Society, March 5, 1878. Dr. Bloxam removed it after death from the right kidney of a patient, the other kidney being sarcomatous and containing an alkaline calculus. The indigo specimen was of a dark-brownish color in part, in part blue-black. It made a blue mark upon paper. It was about an inch in circumference, and weighed 40 grains. This is the only calculus of this sort thus far recorded. Ord expressed his belief to the Pathological Society that, as the ureter of the left kidney was occluded by a sarcomatous mass, some material produced by the disease in that kidney had been absorbed and excreted as indigo by the other. Ultzmann4 has never encountered a calculus formed of indigo, but considers this substance not uncommon in connection with other deposits (uric acid and oxalate of lime). He possesses a uric-acid stone covered with a layer of indigo as thick as paper, and gives a beatiful photograph (Plate 7) of a micro- scopic section of stone, showing a number of blue crystals of indigo shut in within a mass of colorless oxalate of lime. Chemical Analysis of Stone. To examine a stone thoroughly it must be sawed through its nucleus, and the latter, with portions of tiie various concentric layers, separately tested. The best plan which I have found for conducting this examination methodi- cally, is that laid down by Loebisch,5 and, with certain modifications,I have followed it. The dust collected from the sawing of the stone may be first roughly examined to obtain general information. In burning some of this in a Bunsen tame, further investigations may be largely directed by noticing whether the powder burns totally away or leaves a residue, whether the flame possesses color, or the smoke odor, and whether the powder crackles in burning (oxalate of lime). A minute fragment, to be tested, is pulverized and held at a red heat upon a bit of platinum-foil over a spirit lamp or Bunsen burner:— A. It is entirely consumed, except a trace: the fragment is composed of organic matter; that is, uric acid, urate of ammonium, cystine, xanthine, fibrine, urostealith, or indigo. B. It is not very sensibly reduced in bulk b}r heat: the fragment is com- posed of inorganic matter—lime, potassium, sodium, or magnesium, in the form of urate, carbonate, oxalate, or phosphate. 1 Journ. de Pharm. et de Chirn. ; and Loebisch, Anleituug zur Harn-analyse, zweite Aufl. S. 418. 1881. 2 Op. cit., S. 5. 3 Op. cit., p. 144. 4 Op. cit. 6 Op. cit., S. 415.