URINARY CALCULUS. 174 channels, attain a certain size, they act locally as irritating foreign bodies, and increase the grade of the pre-existing inflammatory symptoms, together with the intensity of the subjective and functional phenomena to which these inflammatory symptoms give rise. Stone in the Kidney. All forms of urinary calculus are found in the kidney. The only indigo calculus on record was removed, after death, from the kidney. Urostealith has not yet been detected in the kidney after death, but of the four cases on record (Hunter’s Museum, Heller, Moore, Vidau), in the second, Heller’s, the patient complained of pain in the region of the right kidney, and passed all his small calculi by the urethra. This proof is circumstantial, but it is reasonably strong. Secondary stone deposits occur in the kidney, but only as a sequence of pre-existing stone formation, or as an epiphenomenon in pyelitis, pyelo- nephritis, tubercle, cancer, etc., of that organ. Kenal nuclei usually pass on into the bladder. Those which do not escape from the kidney increase in size. They remain smooth and oval while small, and may continue in this condition while they grow, unless the pelvis of the kidney passes into a condition of chronic inflammation. In this case, alkaline deposit forms either spontaneously or upon the nucleus already at hand, and such secondary stones are liable to attain large size and to assume a branched form, extending into the calices and down into the mouth of the ureter. They often still remain oval, even after becoming phosphatic. A branching kidney stone, however, is not necessarily phos- pliatic. Melchior Torres1 reports a large renal calculus, thoroughly branched, weighing over an ounce (37 grammes), and composed almost entirely of uric acid with a little urate of ammonium and oxalate of lime. This stone seemed to have formed as the direct result of an injury. A stone in the kidney, on the other hand, may reach enormous dimensions and retain its rounded form, not being in the least branched. Such was the large speci- men obtained after death by MacGregor, and already referred to. This stone lias never been chemically examined, but, although apparently covered with a layer of phosphates, it is undoubtedly an acid (primary) stone. Its weight is 51 ounces. The symptoms of stone in the kidney (hrematuria, nephralgia, irritable blad- der, reflex pains), its spontaneous escape (nephritic colic), its results (calculous pyelitis, hydronephrosis), its surgical removal (litho-nephrotomy and nephrec- tomy), have been considered in a previous article.2 It must not be forgotten that stone may remain for years in the kidney without producing any symp- tom, and may be accidentally discovered after death. Stone in the Ureter. There is no reason to believe that stone ever forms primarily in the ureter,and, as a rule, any calculus which fairly passes into the mouth of the ureter sooner or later works through and enters the bladder. The length of time required for this passage, in my experience, varies from a few minutes to many months. In one instance, a patient regularly had a paroxysm of nephritic colic on the 1 Bull, de la Soc. Anat. de Paris, t. iii. p. 90. 1877. 2 See Vol. V., page 1075, supra.