462 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE URETHRA. Complications.—Some strictures may remain stationary without offering any serious hindrance to micturition; for example, when there is simply a ridge of mucous membrane, or when the alteration occupies only a portion of the circumference of the canal. But this is exceptional. In the great majority of cases, strictures become more and more tight, and the functional troubles which they occasion grow more and more intense. Then there may supervene a certain number of more or less serious accidents or complications, which modify the regular course of the stricture. These complications usually appear in individuals who have presented, for a longer or shorter period, troubles of micturition which are characteristic of the presence of a stricture ; some patients have even been previously under treatment, and inform the sur- geon as to the nature of their disease. Yet it should be known that, in cer- tain cases, and in certain individuals who are negligent of their health or who are unobservant of themselves, the lirst manifestation of stricture of the urethra consists precisely in the appearance of one of the complications which remain to be described. I have seen several instances of this kind. Among the complications which may supervene in the course of a stric- ture of the urethra, some are acute and abrupt in their appearance; others, on the contrary, affect a slow and insidious course. In the first rank of acute complications should he placed retention of urine, coming on suddenly in a person affected with stricture of the urethra. This retention, which often follows excessive fatigue, or an error of regimen, has different causes: sometimes it results from obstruction of the lumen of the stricture by a foreign body (calculus, inspissated mucus); sometimes it is due to inflammatory or congestive swelling of the urethral mucous mem- brane ; sometimes, finally, it is to he attributed to a reflex spasm of the neck of the bladder, developed under the influence of an irritation starting from the stricture. Further, this retention is most commonly facilitated by sec- ondary changes in the vesical walls* which, as I have many times repeated, supervene more or less rapidly in all cases in which there is an obstruction to the normal flow of the urine. I confine myself to mentioning this com- plication of strictures, which is considered in another article in connection with retention of urine generally.1 Another complication, much less common but more serious, consists in rupture of the urethra behind the stricture. Spontaneous ruptures of the ure- thra, which are only rarely observed in consequence of the engagement of a calculus, are more common in the case of strictures which have reached an extreme degree of narrowness ; and this difference is explained by the fact that, in the case of a calculus blocking up the urethra, the walls of the canal are healthy, whilst in the case of an old and very narrow stricture, they have undergone more or less considerable changes which predispose them to rup- ture. Terrillon, having made some experiments with the object of estimat- ing the resistance of the normal urethra to distension, has always seen rup- ture produced by a pressure of from one and a half to two atmospheres; from which it is to be inferred that an effort at micturition, however violent it may be, cannot burst the urethra behind an obstruction it the canal have not undergone a certain degree of alteration. Hunter, whose opinion has been adopted by the majority of surgeons, considered rupture as the result of mor- tification or ulceration of the walls ot the canal, without taking into account, in this explanation, either the pressure of the urine against the obstruction or the energetic action of the bladder. Voillemier, relying upon the results furnished by examination of numerous pathological specimens, first demon- strated that the lesions ordinarily met with behind a stricture, were far from 1 See pp. 399 et seq., supra.