934 SCROFULO-TUBERCULOUS AND OTHER STRUCTURAL DISEASES OF BONES. breaming the bones and joints with extremely large cauteries. M. Laroyenne has made the very just observation that the bones are heated more rapidly and more extensively when they ai’e rendered bloodless with the Esmarch bandage, than when they contain their normal quantity of blood. If we desire to profit by the advantages of heat as a means of sterilizing or destroy- ing the tuberculous virus, we must practise igneous cauterization of the dis- eased parts of the bone, with the precaution of elastic haemostasis if the region permits. Actual cauterization deserves to he preferred, because the heat acts at a distance directly upon the microbes, and because it is easy of execution. In what manner and to what extent ought it to be used: 1, in osteopathies of the diaphysis ; 2, in juxta-articular osteopathies; 3, in articular osteo- pathies ? If the osteopathy is in the diaphysis, it is necessary, after having exposed the diseased surface, to touch it fearlessly and vigorously with the red-hot iron, applying the cautery firmly. Usually the depth of the diseased part and the presence of a sequestrum require a previous operation of sequestrotorny, scooping, or gouging, and then cauterization will be only the complement of an operation more radical than itself, and one which surpasses it in import- ance. If the osteopathy is juxta-articular—if it is situated in the dia-epiphyseal bulbous enlargement, and consequently in the spongy tissue—cauterization will have more effect, and therefore ought to be employed with some caution. It is advised not to practise it too energetically, for fear of provoking inflam- mation of the neighboring joint or of the medullar}7 canal. But as, on the one hand, the joint and the medullary canal are in many cases invaded, the one by fungous growths, the other by ossification of the medulla, and as, on the other hand, antiseptic dressings and immobilization enable us to prevent pysemic infection, it is possible, nowadays especially, to use the red-hot iron without fear, even near the joints and the medullary canal. Finally, if the osteopathy is in the epiphysis, or articular, cauterization loses almost all its advantages, at least for large joints in the adult. For here it is altogether insufficient. If the joint is affected as a whole, in its osseous and connective tissues, it is impossible for cauterization to reach all the centres of disease. These cases enter the domain of resection or of amputa- tion. Gouging is no more sufficient than cauterization. Intra-articular cauterization seems to me to be suited to large joints only when there is a simple tuberculous synovitis, or very slight lesions of the ends of the bones. I have, designed an operation to which I have given the name of “ igneous arthrotomy combined with articular breaming and immobiliza- tion.’'1 I open the joint with a red-hot iron, with a cutting thermo-cautery, or even with a bistoury, through the fungous masses; then I scorch with the red-hot iron the bleeding surfaces of the incisions, usually two in number, one on each side of the joint. When the joint is opened I bream it with enormous cauterizing irons until the fluids which escape from it are at a tem- perature which the finger cannot bear. The fungous growths having been cauterized and the joint having been breamed, I saturate the surfaces with iodoform, and, applying a strict Lister dressing, I immobilize the limb with a silicate bandage. The results obtained by this procedure up to the present time are very encouraging. But there can be no question of it if the articular extremities of the bone are seriously diseased. Then resection is demanded, 1 De l’arthrotomie ignee et da chauffage articulaire, combines avec le pansement antiseptique iodoform^ et l’immobilisation dans les synovites et osteo-synovites fongueuses (Revue de Chi- rurgie, 1884).