1148 APPENDIX. sang, and ages long before, as the sapient and august Nestor is made to give his royal opinion in the oft-quoted stanza:— “ A wise physician skilled our wounds to heal, Is more than armies to the public weal.” We are obliged, in passing from the days when Homer sang to the time when Hippocrates wrote, to span a dreary blank of many centuries, during which, whatever may have been learned by direct observation and experience, was entrusted to unreliable oral and traditional communication from age to atie; or, if written, to the almost absolutely annihilating hand of time, so that few traces of medical, anatomical, or surgical knowledge have survived this truly dark period in the history of our art. The adventf of Hippocrates, the cotemporary of Socrates, in the fifth century before the birth of Christ (460-350 B. C.) marks an epoch, or, more strictly speaking, commences the first epoch in surgical history. He was born in an auspicious age, the famous age of Pericles, and in a place of great renown. The island of Cos, in the AEgean Sea, can boast of having given birth to Ptolemy Philadelphia, the second of the Greek kings of Egypt; to Ariston,the philosopher; to Apelles, the famous painter ; and to Hippocrates, the great physician. One of the most celebrated of all the temples of Hfecula- pius^ existing at the time of Hippocrates’s birth, stood upon this island. This temple, or asclepion, like those of Rhodes and Cnidos, was among the noblest and most imposing examples of Grecian architecture, ornate in detail, adorned with impressive colossal statues of the presiding deity of the temples of health—AEsculapius, and bis daughters Hygeia and Panacea. On its lofty walls were hung the masterpieces of Apelles—an equestrian portrait in pro- file of Antigonus, and the Venus Anadyomene, or Venus rising from the sea and wringing her hair with her fingers—priceless pictures, which were held in admiration for many centuries. Hippocrates was well instructed in the polite literature and philosophy7 of his age by7 distinguished teachers, among whom were Gorgias and Democritus, the latter himself a student of comparative anatomy and physiology, if not also of medicine in general. He was of the family of the Asclepiadas, and, as a matter of course, thoroughly initiated into the rudiments, arts, and mysteries of this great school of medi- cine and surgery. From the clinical teachings of the priest-doctors in attend- ance at this famous hospital or sanitarium, from the ample records of cases upon its columns and on its votive tablets, together with his own careful observations of the phenomena of disease and the effects of curative agencies in modifying the same, a genius, such as Hippocrates certainly was, could scarcely fail to become master of his profession. The distinguishing charac- teristics of Hippocrates consisted in his exalted conception of the duties of the physician, as seen in his celebrated “ Oath” and in various passages among his writings, wherein it will be observed that he was equally free from the frauds of priestcraft and from the debasing quackery of medical char- latans. In the first section of “ The Law” he says, “ medicine is of all the arts the most noble; but, owing to the ignorance of those who practise it, and of those who, inconsiderately, form a judgment of them, it is at present far below all the other arts.” He explains this condition of things as being due to a want of law for the punishment of malpractice. “ Their mistake appears to me to arise principally from this, that in the cities there is no punish- ment connected with the practice of medicine (and with it alone) except dis- grace, and that does not hurt those who are familiar with it. Such persons are like the figures which are introduced in tragedies, for as they have the shape, and dress, and personal appearance of an actor, but are not actors, so also physicians are many in title but very few in reality.”