654 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. defect arises in some middle-aged men from deposits in the corpora cavernosa causing indurations, which block up some of the cells and cause a bent and painful state of the penis when erect, owing to its unequal distension with blood. Deposits may be due to the accidental or intentional rupture of the corpora cavernosa when the penis is erect; in one instance it followed the forcible dilatation or rupture of the urethra for organic stricture. Malgaigne and Velpeau have described cases in which ossification of the fibrous sheath or septum of the penis had taken place, and have reported favorable results from operation. At times the penis is curved when erect, owing to a shortened condition of the frsenum, or it is confined, owing to a webbed condition binding it down to the scrotum. This is to be remedied by a division of the fr sen urn, or a suitable operation on the web. Just as impo- tency follows castration, so the same condition will result when the testicles undergo atrophy from any cause, or when they are extensively invaded by new growths. The flaccid condition of the gland, so often associated with varicocele, does not affect virility to any extent; but Vidal (de Cassis) records the case of a young man who had suffered from his earliest years from a large, double varicocele, and who, after its radical cure, lost his high-pitched voice and recovered all his masculine attributes ; the venous congestion was relieved by the operation. In Wardrop’s well-known case, arterial aneemia ensued, and atrophy of both testicles took place, owing to the pressure exercised by a large aortic aneurism on both spermatic arteries at their origin. Cryptor- chidism of both testicles, when they are atrophied, is attended by impotency, but the power of copulation exists when the testes are in the inguinal canal, and even may do so when they are in the abdomen, although there is then a very strong presumption that spermatozoa are absent, and the semen there- fore sterile. When the testes are completely atrophied from an early age, or have en- tirely disappeared (anorchidism), the bodily conformation will be womanly, the penis will be undeveloped, and the individual will be destitute of sexual instincts. Cases of hypospadia with cleft scrotum, when the testicles are not to be felt externally, but are hidden within the abdomen, often pass as in- stances of hermaphroditism. The stunted penis is capable of erection, and imperfect sexual intercourse can be had, but the discharge will not be deposited in the vagina, but will be spilt externally. The researches of Godard have demonstrated that when double blennorrhagic epididymitis has occurred, and has left deposits behind, the semen is destitute of spermatozoa, and the patient is consequently rendered sterile, although the power to copulate is unimpaired. Orchitis proper,or acute inflammation of the substance of the testicle itself, following an injury or an attack of mumps, is liable to be followed by'wasting of the organ and destruc- tion of its function. Chronic inflammation of the testes gives rise to azoosper- mia. Injuries to the head and spinal column are at times followed by atrophy of the testicles. In some instances a testicle may waste without any assignable cause, and in some cases the atrophy has been attributed to an affection of the larynx (Meckel), or of the tonsils (Verneuil). In some few cases wasted testicles have been found associated with large hydroceles and heematoceles of long standing, the wasting being attributed to pressure. In many acute diseases, and in those attended with much pain, the patient is much debili- tated and sexual desire is in abeyance. In chronic Bright’s disease sexual power is diminished, and in diabetes, in some instances, its failure is ob- served at an early period. In tabes dorsalis the spinal cord is affected in the region occupied by the genital centre, and we consequently find that sexual excitement with priapism is sometimes an early symptom, and one