276 URINARY CALCULUS. (1) Possible Complications during Perineal Lithotomy. 1. Failure to enter the bladder. 2. Incision of the body of the bladder. 3. Wounding the rectum. 4. Hemorrhage. 5. Rigidity of the neck of the bladder. 6. Great depth of the perineum. 7. Enlargement of a prostatic lobe. 8. Tumor. 9. Failure to find stone after lithotomy. (2) Possible Complications 1. Hemorrhage. 2. Filling up of the bladder by clot. 3. Retention of urine. 4. Suppression of urine. 5. Fragment left behind. 6. Phosphatic incrustation of the wound. 7. Diphtheritic deposit upon the wound. 8. Epididymitis. (3) Possible after-effects 1. Incontinence of urine. 2. Impotence. 10. Abnormal position of the stone due to a. presence of a bas-fond. b. its being entrapped by mus- cular contraction. c. “ “ adherent. d. “ “ encysted. 11. Wounding the bladder from within. 12. Foreign body as a nucleus. 13. Faulty seizure of the calculus. 14. Multiple calculus. 15. Friable calculus. 16. Great size of calculus. 17. Aspiration of air by the rectum. after Perineal Lithotomy. 9. Sloughing of the rectum. 10. Cellulitis and infiltration. 11. Phlebitis and pyaemia. 12. Cystitis. 13. Surgical kidney. 14. Peritonitis. 15. Tetanus. of Perineal Lithotomy. 3. Sterility. 4. Perineal fistula. (1) Possible Complications during Perineal lithotomy.— 1. Failure to enter the Bladder.—This accident lias occurred more than once, particularly in the case of children. It is due to the fact that the inci- sion into the urethra and prostate is not ample enougli to admit the explor- ing finger, and that the latter either pushes off the bladder from the urethra, or else, failing to enter the canal at all, wanders hopelessly in the cellular tissue of the recto-vesical space. The accident may be avoided in any case by passing a director along the groove of the staff before the latter is with- drawn from the bladder, and then using the director to guide the pulp of the finger into the bladder. The peculiar sensation imparted to the finger as it passes through the neck of the bladder, when once felt even upon the dead subject, is sufficient to allow the careful operator to recognize the parts and determine whether the neck of the bladder is entered by the finger or not. If the accident should occur, by carefully following along the roof of the urethra, the apex of the prostate must be sought, the bladder opened, the stone extracted, and free drainage established with a large rubber catheter passed through the wound, where it is to be retained until free suppuration sets in. The accident is a serious one, but not necessarily fatal. Cellulitis and infiltration of urine are to be feared. A false passage made by the staff' can always be guarded against, if the operator feels the stone with his staff before making his first incision. In children, a false passage may be made by failing to recall the sharpness of the urethral curve; in adults, on account of a stricture or prostatic enlargement. The dreadful error of cutting upon a staff which has made a false route is only to be mentioned to be guarded against. Thompson has referred to two