158 URINARY CALCULUS. cases, and to retain it thus modified. Ultzmann’s classification was the fol- lowing :— 1. Primary stone formation. 2. Secondary stone formation. 8. Metamorphosed stones. 1. Primary stone formation of Ultzmann includes stones forming in acid urine, which is normal as far as any inflammatory exudation derived from the tissues is concerned. 2. Secondary stone formation includes stones forming in neutral urine—such as the crystalline phosphate and the carbonate of lime, and in urine rendered pathologically alkaline by the products of inflammation of the mucous mem- brane lining the urinary tract—the phosphatic stones. 3. Metamorphosed stones, according to Ultzmann, are certain large kidney and bladder stones with uric-acid nucleus and phosphatic shell. It is claimed that an acid stone lying for years in purulent urine loses its acid crystals, in part or wholly, their place being supplied by alkaline phosphatic precipitates. This metamorphosis of stone is a pure assumption, and Ultzmann does not prove it, or seriously attempt to do so, in either his monograph on stone for- mation, his work on urinary analysis written with Hoffman, or his pamphlet on urinary concretions. In the last work he does not mention the subject. It is not uncommon to find a phosphatic stone with a nucleus of uric acid, and it is much more reasonable to suppose that the nucleus, acting like any other foreign body, has produced catarrh of the mucous membrane, and has then become covered with phosphatic incrustation, than it is to believe that the stone has ever been composed entirely of uric acid, and has become partly metamorphosed into a phosphatic stone. This assumption holds as well for the pelvis of the kidney as for the bladder. Another fault of Ultzmann’s classification is, that it places the phosphate- of-lime and carbonate-of-lime stone in the secondary class, and assigns no reasonable position to indigo, urostealith, or fibrin. I think that the division into primary and secondary stones is an excellent one, with this understanding, that primary stones are such as form primarily from altered urine and colloids, while secondary or symptomatic stones follow as a consequence of inflammatory lesions of the mucous membrane of the urinary tract, without regard to the condition of the urine in respect to its various salts. Only two stones give any trouble in the classification which I propose: uro- stealith and amorphous phosphate of lime. I rank them both with secondary .stones, because amorphous phosphate of lime, when found at all as a separate stone not combined with the ammonio-magnesian phosphate, is a friable, mortar-like mass entangled in a magma of mucus, and although phosphate of lime is found where there is no catarrh of the urinary passages, yet it is doubtful whether a stone ever forms from it except in the presence of such catarrh. Urostealith again has never been encountered except in association with mixed phosphates. It therefore seems probable that it only forms in the presence of catarrhal inflammation. The classification then which I propose is as follows:— I. Primary stone—the mucous membranes of the urinary tract being sound when the stone forms—uric acid (urate of sodium, potassium, lime), oxalate of lime, cystine, xanthine, carbonate of lime, crystalline phosphate of lime, indigo. II. Secondary or symptomatic stone—the mucous membrane of the urinary passage being in a catarrhal state at the point where the stone forms—urate