306 LITHOTRITY. over its surface; but its exact volume can only be made out by measurement, and the lithotrite is perhaps the most convenient instrument for the purpose. The density of a stone may be approximately established by the sense of touch, and by the sound elicited when it is struck—the soft, friable stone usu- ally giving out a comparatively dull sound, and the hard stone a sharp sound. But operators would fall into frequent error were they guided solely by the sense of touch or of hearing in deciding upon the density or hardness of a calculus. I have more than once elicited a very sharp, ringing sound from a soft stone; and a dull sound from a hard one. The clearness of sound not unfrequently depends upon the slight extent of contact of the calculus with the surface of the mucous membrane of the bladder; and the dulness upon the more extensive contact whereby the bladder partially envelops it and muffles the sound. Clearness or dulness often depends upon the ease and quickness with which the stone can be struck. With an instrument which completely fills the ure- thra, and which has its movements somewhat impeded in consequence, the sound will not be as clear as when the stone is struck quickly, sharply, lightly, and with freedom, by an instrument not so held. Moreover, the note elicited may be dull or clear according to the part of the instrument with which the stone is struck: when with the point, the sound is clearer when struck laterally than when directly; and laterally or directly, the sound is clearer than when struck by the instrument at a distance from the point. In a word, it must be borne in mind that the sound produced by striking the stone is not solely dependent upon its size, hardness, or density, but is much modi- fied h}r the condition of the containing viseus and the canal which leads to it, the instrument which impinges on it, and the hand by which this is held. Indeed, the sound elicited is as different in the bands of different persons as would be the sound elicited from the same thorax, with the same hammer and pleximeter, in the hands of a Piorry and of an untrained student. The question of number may be approximately settled by the same instru- ment which establishes the question of size or density. If the instrument strike a calculus on one side, and can then dip down and move about in all directions without striking another, it is reasonable to conclude that the stone is single. If, however, the instrument can be made to strike in several direc- tions, first on one side and then on another, and can then dip down, and, as it were, elicit a separate click, first on one side and then on another, it is reasonable to conclude that the stone is not single. But this is not always reliable, and I am now in the habit of trusting to the lithotrite alone to elucidate the question of one or more. With a calculus firmly within the jaws of the instrument, the lithotrite is made to grope for other calculi, and to elicit sounds that could not be caused by the imprisoned stone. In this way the presence of at least a second calculus can be estab- lished ; but more numerous ones are not so unmistakably made out. We may conjecture their presence, however, if the instrument seems to meet with numerous bodies in all directions, displace them easily, and clip down in all directions and still displace. But it is not safe to conjecture the number by using either the sound or the lithotrite. Twelve years ago I examined an old man with the sound and made out the existence of separate calculi, but how many I could not tell, though I suspected only three or four. I urged the use of the lithotrite, but he elected the knife. I did not regret his choice, as it enabled me to remove and save twenty-five stones of almost uniform size and shape, each about the size of a hazel-nut. The number of calculi in this instance could not be approximately conjectured before the operation. But a circumstance of greater moment than the number of calculi, as it often decides the choice of operation, is their free or encysted position within the bladder. It would seem a 'priori easy to say when a calculus is free, and,