656 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. ward sign to show that virile power is absent, the patient being endowed with a robust person, a manly voice, and hair on the face and pubes; on the other hand, the conformation of the body may be womanly, and the genitals relaxed or undeveloped. The congenital variety of paralytic impotence exists, but is very rare. Sir A. Cooper says, that “some men are so consti- tuted that they may he said never to possess a venereal stimulus, and some of the other sex are equally frigid.” Treatment.—When the penis is buried in a large swelling—hernia, hy- drocele, elephantiasis scroti, and the like—it may be released by a suitable operation. Tumors or overgrowths of the integument of the penis are to he dissected off when possible. Distortions of the penis, due to deposits in the corpora cavernosa, have been operated on, but with scanty success. Vel- peau1 advocates the removal of the ossific deposits which are sometimes found in the penis. Cases of psychical or hypochondriacal impotence should not be treated by electricity, but by tonics, change of air, and abstinence for a time from all attempts at coitus. In cases of weakness from continence, on the other hand, regular coitus will effect a cure. When there is irritability of the organs, the use of astringents and the passage of a sound are advisable. The paralytic forms of impotence are the most grave. In the congenital variety, stimulating remedies, such as cantharides, phosphorus, nux vomica, and ergot of rye, may be tried, but in the acquired form of paralytic impotency, nervous irritability is present, and all stimulating remedies and sexual inter- course should be avoided. Tonics, baths of various kinds, and the application of galvanism, should have a fair trial. Sterility is said to be present when fertile semen is absent, or when it is not normal in composition, owing to the absence of spermatozoa. When aspermatism or aspermism is present, coitus takes place naturally, but without a seminal emission resulting. Azoospermia exists when coitus takes place and results in an emission, but when on examination by the microscope the fluid is found to be destitute of zoosperms, the essential element of fecunda- tion. Schulz places in one class cases of permanent or absolute aspermatism, due to local causes. The power to emit has in these cases been absent from birth, or, if lost subsequently, has never returned. In another class are placed cases due to some affection of the nerve-centres, the aspermatism. being tempo- rary, or relative; coitus is attended, generally, with emission, though under certain circumstances emissions are absent. , In cases of absolute aspermatism, the semen is shut out from the urethra itself, or is prevented from escaping properly from the penis by a stricture or very tight foreskin. The entry of semen into the urethra may be prevented by obstruction of the common ejaculatory ducts. Obstructions in the vasa deferentia or epididymes, also, give rise to the absence of spermatozoa in the emitted fluid. Prostatic changes due to disease or injury may prevent the entry of semen into the urethra; or the semen may enter the urethra, and, owing to some local change, pass backwards into the bladder, or be imprisoned in the canal by a stricture, escaping after the subsidence of the erection. The urine contains semen under these circumstances. Gonorrhoea is a common cause of stricture, and of this condition. Changes at the sinus pocularis may cause obstruction, or diversion of the semen into the bladder. Hirtz mentions the case of a married man who had connection without emission, the urine passed afterwards being clouded with semen. On one occasion, during coitus, some obstruction, which was probably due to an old gonorrhoea, gave way, with smart Nouv. Elem. de Med. Operat. Paris, 1839.