HEMORRHOIDS. 127 straining; this is frequently followed by itching of a very annoying character, coming on when the patient gets warm in bed, keeping him awake for some time, and inducing him to scratch the part. In the morning he finds his anus a little swollen and tender, and if he be an observant person with regard to himself, he will notice after a motion a slight stain of blood. The treatment in such a case should be abstinence from active exercise, with rather spare diet, embracing well-cooked vegetables and fish, but not much meat, and no beer or spirits; even wine is not desirable. If a smoker, the patient must cut down his usual allowance ; smoking often causes a sympa- thetic irritation of the throat and rectum. lie may take a warm or a Turkish bath, and should wash the anus night and morning with warm water and Castile soap, after this applying some glycerine and tannic acid, or some calo- mel ointment, or a lotion composed ot one teaspoontul ot the liq. plumbi diacetatis added to a wineglassful of fresh milk, which is very soothing. As to medicines, he may take a Plummer’s pill, with a little taraxacum and belladonna, for two or three nights at bed-time; and in the morning, fasting, some effervescing citrate of magnesium, phosphate of sodium or sulphate of potassium and sodium, or this draught, which I have found very useful on many occasions : R.—Liq. magnes. carb. fjss ; potassii bicarb. 9j ; syr. seu tinct. sennie f3ij ; spt. tether, nit. f‘3ss; aqute purte ad fsij. One third of a tumbler-full of Friedrichshall water, taken fasting with twice as much warm water, or Carlsbad salts, will also have a good effect. If the case be neglected, and advice be not sought until active inflammation has set in, and the symptoms I have described are in full force, the surgeon will save his patient much time, pain, and after-trouble, by snipping off the inflamed cutaneous excrescences, or, in the case of the sanguineous tumors, by laying them freely open by transfixion with a bistoury, and turning out the clot. The incision should be made in the direction of the radiating folds of the anus. A little absorbent cotton-wool should be laid into the wound, which will readily heal. It is always well in these cases to ascertain, by means of an injection, whether there be any internal piles associated with the external; if so, they must be attended to, or the patient will probably be made worse by any operation on the external hemorrhoids. If the patient will not submit to operative treatment, the swollen parts should be well smeared with extract of belladonna and glycerine in equal parts, and a warm poultice applied. Sometimes cold is found by the patient to be more soothing ; ice should then be constantly applied, or, if this be unattainable, Goulard water with extract of belladonna. I have never seen much benefit derived from leeching, and often much ill. After having experienced one attack of hemorrhoids, a patient should guard himself against a repetition by simple living, plenty of exercise, abstin- ence from stimulants and excessive smoking, great cleanliness of the anus, and absolute regularity of the bowels. If medicinal aid be required to insure this, he will find equal parts of the confections of hlack pepper, sulphur, and senna, a capital remedy; or the German licorice-powder, one teaspoonful of which, two or three times a week at bed-time, generally suf- fices to keep the bowels acting daily ; lastly, the mineral waters, such as Friedrichshall, Pullna, or Hunyadi-Janos, are often of great use. A steady perseverance in the line of treatment which I have suggested will in all pro- bability eradicate the hemorrhoidal tendency. A favorite prescription of mine to stave off attacks is the following: R.—Magnes. sulph. 3ss ; acid, nitric, dil. Ri x ; succi taraxaci f'3j; infus. ealumbce fij. This should be taken twice in the day. This medicine acts gently on the liver and bowels, and at the same time is a tonic. After taking it for a week, the patient generally feels wonderfully better. His