NECROSIS OF BONES. 893 account of the large size of the medullary spaces and the relatively free com- munication between them. Young bone-tissue is, other things being equal, less liable to necrosis than old bone-tissue. It is always the same question of vascularity. It is sometimes said that necrosis is more common in children that in adults. This is true, if regard be had only to the number of cases of necrosis; it is untrue, if it means that the bone of a child mortifies more easily than that of an adult. Under the same anatomical conditions, the bone of the adult is much more liable to necrosis than that of the child; and if account be taken of the large number of bone-affections in children, and of the relatively small number of cases of spontaneous osteitis in adults, the truth will be discovered by reversing the above proposition. Vascular com- munication between the different parts making up the bone takes place so easily in childhood, that necrosis is possible only after extensive vascular destruction. It is often said that denudation of bone causes necrosis. I have shown by numerous and varied experiments that this is not so. I have, in young sub- jects, removed the whole of the periosteum of the diaphysis,or have completely emptied the medullary canal, without producing necrosis.1 I have even, in certain experiments, removed simultaneously the periosteum and the medulla without causing death of the bone. But, in order that life shall be preserved in these cases, it is necessary to obtain immediate union of the wound, that is to say, immediate adhesion of the tissues peripheral to the denuded bone, and to prevent the formation of pus in the medulla. In young bone-tissue, medullization of the canals of Havers takes place so rapidly, and anastomoses of these canals are then so readily established, that the circulation is restored. What brings about necrosis is not the denudation of the bone, it is the inflammation which follows this denudation. At a seat of fracture protected from the air, completely movable splinters become engrafted and continue to live. In operations upon man and in experiments upon animals, it is possible nowadays, by means of vigorous antisepsis, to preserve the vitality of bone- tissue after the severest traumatisms. Formerly, necrosis almost always re- sulted under these circumstances; the wounds became inflamed, and, the vessels of the bone being obliterated, its death was the inevitable consequence. The bones, as I long since proved,2 may become engrafted like other living tissues; they are engrafted by the periosteum and by the medulla, especi- ally by their periosteum. Completely detached scales may continue to live, not only in a protected fracture, which is the rule, but also in open fractures, to the seat of which air may have entered. It is a question of asepsis. But if denudation of a bone does not of itself cause necrosis, if the destruction of its periosteum or medulla is not followed by death of the bone-substance, it does not follow that denudations of bone are not serious complications, either in spontaneous or in traumatic osteitis. In amputations, the end of the bone, more or less deprived of its periosteum, is liable to annular necrosis, and extensive periostitis with separation of the membrane causes more or less extensive necrosis, even without concomitant osteo-myelitis. After necrosis by denudation and necrosis from acute inflammation, I ought to mention necrosis from progressive antenna of the bone, such as is met with in certain inflammatory processes which produce at different points progressive eburnation. To the rarefaction of the first period of osteitis suc- ceeds a condensation, or rather an eburnation of the bone-tissue, which may go on to obliteration of most of the canals of Havers. From this come the 1 Traiti Experimental et Clinique de la R£g6n<Sration des Os, t. i. 2 Des greffes osseuses (Journal de la Physiologie de Brown-S6quard, 1869).