INFLAMMATION OF BONE IN RELATION TO ITS CONSTITUENT TISSUES, ETC. 855 The connecting cartilage is intimately adherent to the periosteum, with which it is continuous and blended at its circumference. The older writers even considered it as a dependency of the periosteum. This continuity is well seen in separations of the epiphyses, when the extremity of a cliaphysis separated from its cartilage breaks through the ensheathing periosteum, and protrudes through the tear in the midst of the muscles. In this sudden sepa- ration there remains on the side of the cartilage the spongy layer, and under the periosteum the osteogenic layer, which is very easily seen in young children, and the deep parts of which have already undergone the first stage of ossification. There is also under the periosteum a spongy layer which is continuous with the same layer at the leyel of the cartilage. 'At the terminal portions of the diaphysis there is also found the principal zone of growth in the bone: near the cartilage, the elements of growth in length; under the periosteum, the elements of growth in thickness. This zone of physiological proliferation is also the zone of election of patho- logical processes. And we must not oidy consider these processes at the periphery of the bone ; corresponding incessant transformations take place in the cavities of the spongy tissue during the whole period of growth. As the seat of the most active growth of the bones, the juxta-epiphyseal expansion is, by this very fact, the region most predisposed to a variety of inflammations. Related on the one hand to the connecting cartilage, on the other to the central canal of the medulla, and communicating readily with the periosteum by numerous vascular openings, it constitutes a central focus whence inflammation may readily radiate in all directions, except in that of the epiphysis, where the cartilage arrests it for a certain length of time. The inflammations which are produced in the spongy tissue, on the border of the connecting cartilage, take the form of osteo-myelitis, and differ from medullitis or osteo-myelitis of the central canal inasmuch as they cannot progress as rapidly, stopped as they are by the walls of the vacuoles of the spongy tissue. They differ from them above all in that they may easily show themselves under the periosteum, from which they are separated, at the edge of the cartilage, by only a thin layer of compact tissue, which is easily medullizecl. This explains the frequent spontaneous issue of pus under the periosteum, coming from the cavities of the spongy tissue, and enables us to understand at the same time the error which may be made as to its true origin. O m # It is in this region, under the periosteum or in the spongy tissue, that the majority of inflammations of the diaphysis begin during the period of growth, spreading through the medulla and the periosteum to the whole of this portion of the bone, and giving rise to the various lesions which we are about to study. The idea of juxta-epiphyseal osteitis then appears to me one of the funda- mental points of the pathology of bones ; wherefore I shall not cease to call attention to its nosological significance and to its therapeutic consequences. The juxta-epiphyseal portion is much more frequently than the adjacent epiphyseal tissue the point of departure for the acute osteitis of childhood and adolescence. The proliferation of ossifiable elements, and the growth of the bone which is its consequence, are not equal on the two faces of the connecting cartilage. They are much more marked on the diaphyseal face, whence arises a permanent physiological congestion which prepares the ground for pathological attacks. The length of the bone derived from the epiphyseal faces of its two connecting cartilages represents, on an average, hardly the fifteenth of the length gained from the two diaphyseal faces of the same cartilages. But the bone grows not only in length, it grows also in thickness by the