910 SCROFULO-TUBERCULOUS AND OTHER STRUCTURAL DISEASES OF BONES. tissue. But Nichet did not describe tuberculous infiltration systematically, as Nelaton has done. This surgeon says that tuberculous infiltration may be met with alone or associated with the first form (encysted tubercle), but that it never follows it. It appears in two different states, which may be considered as two stages of the same form, and which may be designated by the names, semi-transparent infiltration and puriform or opaque infiltration. Semi-transparent infiltration is characterized by the deposit of a gray, opaline material in the spaces of the spongy tissue, which appears as if in- vaded by a brain-like substance. In color these spots contrast sharply with the rest of the bone. A stream of water directed upon the spaces of the spongy tissue does not drive out the infiltrated material, which sticks tightly to the lamella3, of this tissue ; a very slender bloodvessel passes through them and gives them a grayish-red color. The presence of the semi-transparent infiltrate brings about no modification in the'density of the bone-tissue. Puriform infiltration, on the other hand, which succeeds the semi-trans- parent infiltration, “ is distinguished from the preceding: 1st, by the dull yellow color of the infiltrated portions of bone; 2d, by the absence of blood- vessels; 3d, by interstitial hypertrophy of the bone-tissue.” (Nelaton.) The yellow material gradually undergoes softening and becomes puriform; whence its confusion with caries. The absence of bloodvessels is one of the facts which it is most important to note, says Nelaton. The hypertrophy of the bone does not extend to its whole mass; the lamellfe of the spongy tissue are alone hypertrophied, and sometimes to such an extent that the spaces which they circumscribe are almost entirely obliterated. Nevertheless there are some exceptions to this rule. The bones of the foot or hand may be in- filtrated with tuberculous matter without undergoing eburnation. Nelaton explains this breaking of the rule by the rarefaction having existed before the infiltration. If the other bones of the tarsus and of the carpus are examined, he says, they will be found rarefied, although free from infiltration. This appears to be a somewhat specious explanation. For there is no proof of the priority of the rarefaction. We know, on the other hand, that the bones near a centre of chronic osteitis or arthritis become consecutively rarefied, in consequence of the disturbance of nutrition resulting from the disease, from immobility, from the pressure of dressings, etc. It is very possible that at the beginning there is interstitial hypertrophy, and that afterwards rarefaction supervenes. The succession of absorption to prolifera- tion is a common occurrence in affections of the bones. Different anatomi- cal, constitutional, or therapeutic conditions may hasten or retard the suc- cession of these phenomena. To conclude, a pre-existent osteoporosis does not seem to me certain except in tuberculous infiltrations of the bones follow- ing fungous synovitis. Then caries is present, a lesion which I look upon as an osteopathy, prc bably tuberculous, but which was not so regarded by Nelaton. Nelaton does not believe that purulent infiltration is always pre- ceded by semi-transparent infiltration ; the infiltration may be of an opaque yellow color from the start. However this may be, “ every tuberculous in- filtration in a bone is a necrosis of the infiltrated tissue.” (Nelaton.) Necrosis is the consequence of the obliteration of the vessels by prolifera- tion of the osseous substance of the lamellae, in a word, by condensing osteitis. Around the portion of bone thus mortified by isclnemia, a zone of eliminat- ing osteitis is formed, which isolates it and makes it a sequestrum, and this inflammatory process persists, in a continuous or intermittent manner, until the sequestrum is eliminated, spontaneously or by the aid of an operation, from its cavity, which is lined with granulations themselves more or less infiltrated with tuberculous products (Fig. 1444). The isolation of the dead bone may sometimes be long delayed: “ 1st, Because,” says Nelaton, “ the