INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE RECTUM. 102 mencing at the outermost part of the swelling. If the part be thoroughly frozen by the ether-spray, this operation is rendered painless. The method of operating above described is, however, by no means suitable to a severe or deep-seated abscess; but I can safely say that, if a patient suffering from this latter form will allow the surgeon to act in the proper way, it will be almost certain that no fistula will result. The following is the method which I adopt. The patient must take an anaesthetic, as *the operation is very painful. I first lay open the abscess outside of the anus, from end to end, and from behind forwards, that is, in the direction from the coccyx to the perineum. I then introduce my forefinger into the abscess and break down any secondary cavities or loculi, carrying my finger up the side of the rectum as far as the abscess goes, probably under the sphincter muscles, so that only one large sac remains; should there be burrowing outwards, I make an incision deeply into the buttock, at right angles to the first. I then syringe out the cavity, and carefully fill it with wool soaked in carbolized oil, one part to twenty ; this I leave in for a day or two, then take it out and examine the cavity, and dress the part again in the same manner, but in addition I now use, if I think it necessary, one or more drain- age-tubes. In a remarkably short time these patients recover; the sphincters have not been divided, and the patient therefore escapes the risk of incon- tinence of feces or flatus, which sometimes occurs ivhen both the sphincters are deeply incised. I could cite numbers of cases of very unfavorable aspect, and in old persons, that have done quite well, when treated as I have de- scribed. To give the patient the best possible chance of recovery, he should be kept on the sofa, if not in bed. I always think it advisable to clear out the bowels once, and then to confine them by an astringent dose of opium for three days; entire rest is thus secured to the parts, and every opportunity is given for the cavity of the abscess to fill up. After a time the carbolized oil should he discarded, and lotions used containing sulphate of zinc or copper,, or friar’s balsam, which last does great good. The surgeon should never stuff an abscess, but put wool in very lightly, and use drainage tubes, of' which those of India-rubber are the best. The questions naturally arise, why do these abscesses usually fail to close up? Why do they form sinuses? There are doubtless several reasons, but the following may be sufficient: The constant motion of the parts, caused by action of the bowels and by movement of the sphincters, almost at every breath, and the presence of much loose areolar tissue and fat. The vessels also, near the rectum, are not well supported, and the veins have no valves ; there- is therefore a tendency to stasis, and this is inimical to rapid granulation. We know that abscesses are always apt to degenerate into sinuses when situated in any lax areolar tissue, as in the axilla, neck, or groin. After an abscess has long existed, the discharge loses its purulent charac- ter and becomes watery ; the cavity gradually contracts, and at last only a sinus, very often formed of dense tissue, remains. If now a probe be passed very tenderly into this sinus, allowing it to follow its own course, and after this is done, the finger be placed in the rectum, it will probably be found that the probe has traversed the sinus and passed through an internal opening, and that it can be felt in the bowel. In this case there would be a typical, simple, complete fistula ; and this is by far the most common variety, very few fistube that have existed for more than three months being without an internal opening. Besides this common form there are two other descriptions of fistula, viz., the blind external fistula and the blind internal fistula. In the blind externalfis- tula there is an external opening, and it is therefore called an external fistula, but no internal opening, and hence a blind external fistula. In the other