1016 ORTHOPAEDIC SURGERY. established. The advantage of this method is that it is more interesting to the patient, as he is able to watch exactly the amount of progress made, whereas the mechanical exercise is rather monotonous, and on that account is often neglected. If, after a fair trial of one or all of these methods, the con- traction of the tendon does not yield, tenotomy must be resorted to. A case presenting well-marked characteristics of paralytic equinus, such as that above considered, serves as a standard as regards treatment with which to compare the modifications required in the management of other conditions of the deformity. In the table before given, three states of paralytic equinus are classified, each state being again separated into two groups according to the time that the deformity has existed. In the early stage of equinus, resulting from slight loss of power of the Hexor muscles of the foot, the dis- tortion is readily overcome by the use of the physiological method of treat- ment alone; if, however, this condition has existed for three or four years, it may be accompanied by some contraction of the plantar fascia with deepening of the sole of the foot. When this latter condition has been developed, division of the contracted band of fascia is the right course to adopt; there is nothing to be gained here by resorting to mechanical means, which may be successful, but which will take a much longer time to gain the desired result, while the division of the fascia cannot possibly be productive of ultimate harm. Should the Achilles tendon be contracted, even to such an extent that the foot cannot be flexed to a right angle with the leg, mechanical and physiological measures must first be employed ; the desirability of not lengthening the tendon if it can be avoided is obvious, and moreover the risk of developing calcaneus is always present in these cases. Having reduced any distortion of the foot itself that may have existed, the use of the Scarpa’s shoe is continued to overcome the shortening of the contracted muscles; if interference with flexion of the foot is only slight in degree, the constant use of the shoe is not necessary, but the child may be allowed to walk with a steel support attached to the foot, and with a flexion-spring to assist the weak anterior muscles and counteract the action of the extensors, the shoe being worn at night, and as many hours during the day as may be thought desirable. Exercise of the foot by one of the methods previously described, and the employment of galvanism and of shampooing to stimulate the para- lyzed muscles, are also necessary parts of the treatment. When the loss of muscular power is more severe, the deformity in the early stage usually yields to the measures just described as suitable for the second stage of slighter paralysis; but if of some years’ standing, and if the heel is drawn up, section of the Achilles tendon is required, always remembering that any shortening of the sole of the foot that has been caused must first be relieved. In the condition of complete loss of power of the anterior muscles, the early stage may be submitted to treatment without operation, but in tbe later stage operative measures must always be employed. Spasmodic equinus is treated on the same lines as those drawn up for the relief of paralytic deformity, but section of the tendo Achillis is always to be avoided if possible, and in no case should tenotomy be performed so long as the exciting cause of muscular contraction is at work. Talipes Arcuatus.—In describing the characteristics of talipes equinus, frequent mention has been made of the existence of two conditions which contribute to the deformity—shortening of the foot with contraction of the plantar tissues, and extension of the foot on the leg from contraction of the posterior muscles. Both these conditions are dependent upon paralysis of the flexor muscles, the first arising from the front part of the foot falling down and becoming displaced from the astragalus and os calcis at the trans-