PUERPERAL LAPAROTOMY, OR LAPAROTOMY AFTER RUPTURE OF UTERUS. 781 sequences. As in regard to the Caesarean section, so likewise in regard to laparotomy after rupture of the uterus, Dr. James Blundell, of London, questioned, fifty years ago, the advisability of removing the uterus after delivering the foetus, in these words: “ that extirpation of the uterus might be of service, is a question which our better knowledge of abdominal surgery may ultimately prove.” And in a later edition (1840) of his obstetrical treatise, he said: “ This question may be answered better next century.” But after seven fatal cases and no recoveries, this question may be fairly answered in the negative now. Prevot’s patient had a conjugate of four and three-eighths inches, and her uterus bore no evidences of morbid change ; nothing could justify an operator in removing the uterus in such a ease, since suturing the rent might be done with entire success. Puerperal laparotomy after ruptured uterus appears to have been one of the neglected operations, and there is reason to believe that, at least in this- country, not one case of laceration in a hundred is operated upon. Many, it is true, never react after the accident, but still a fair proportion might be subjected to the knife. The amount of blood lost may not be very serious, or it may be very great, according to the position of the rupture; a lateral tear, or one over the seat of the placenta, may prove rapidly fatal. Operation.—This is very simple in character, and may be rapidly executed. Care must be taken to avoid the bladder, omentum, and intestines, in open- ing the abdomen, as the uterus will be found contracted, it may be to a small size. When the foetus and placenta have been extracted, the clots of blood must be removed, and all the fluid blood and amniotic liquid sponged out, until the parts are well cleaned. Then the uterus is to be carefully ex- amined, and, it- possible, the rent closed with sutures, as has been directed for the Caesarean section. Many women have made good recoveries when the rent has been left open, but it is certainly better surgery to close it up carefully. If the rent is posterior, drainage through the Douglas cul-de-sac and vagina may answer as a substitute, but the safety of the woman in a future labor requires that a firm cicatrix should be secured, as instances are on record where rupture has recurred as many as three times, after the healing of the first, when no stitching has been employed. I do not now recall any cases where rupture has followed a Caesarean operation, in which the uterus has been sutured, although I remember several in which the women subsequently bore children, and one hore two, naturally and without any accident. To save the fcetus would require an immediate operation, such as few men would have the boldness to perform ; since in the event of the death of the woman by shock, the fatal result might be attributed to the use of the knife. It should be laid down, then, as a rule of obstetric practice, that in all cases of rupture of the uterus with escape of fluid into the abdominal cavity, where the woman has reacted sufficiently from the shock of the accident to warrant it, the abdomen should be opened for the purposes of antiseptic cleansing and of suturing the uterine rent; and that this should be done, whether the foetus is still in utero and can be delivered per vias radar ales, or has entirely or partly passed into the peritoneal cavity and must of necessity be removed by laparotomy. In no case should the foetus be drawn back into the uterus and through the vagina, and the woman be then left to nature, in the hope that she may possibly escape death because a few have done so. As the object of treatment is not merely to deliver the woman, but to do all that is possible to save her life, both the uterine and abdominal cavities must be evacuated and cleansed antiseptically, and the rent closed, so that no noxious fluid may escape through it from the uterus.