735 AMPUTATION OF TIIE CERVIX UTERI. and opium given with a liberal hand. West advises giving at first the mild- est form of narcotic, passing only by degrees, as each in turn ceases to be efficacious, to those which are more potent, and to the preparations of opium. Thus five grains each of henbane and of camphor, in the form of pills, are given at bedtime; when these lose their power, they may be supplemented by twenty minims of compound spirit of ether and fifteen of chloric ether. Indian hemp and chlorodyne may also be tried, before using opium; finally, when this must be used, the form will depend upon the peculiarities of the patient. Suppositories containing opium or morphia, or rectal injec- tions containing one of the liquid preparations of opium, can often be usefully and conveniently used; where sleep is not secured by the opiate alone, chloral may be added. In case of suffering requiring instant relief, hypodermic injections of morphia are indicated, or even aneesthetic inhalations. Pregnancy occurring in Cases of Cancer of the Cervix.—The presence of even extensive cancerous disease of the cervix does not preclude the possibility of pregnancy, and the influence of this condition upon the progress of the dis- ease varies in different cases. While in general that influence is injurious, hastening the evolution of the malady, in some cases no effect has been ob- served, while in a few the disease seems to have been retarded. The influence of the disease upon the pregnancy also varies in different cases. In a very few the pregnancy has been prolonged, the foetus being dead. Two such cases have been reported by Menzies. In many abortion or premature labor occurs. In the majority labor comes on at the usual time, and in such the non-interruption of pregnancy is to be attributed to the fact that the disease has not extended to the internal os uteri, and possibly involves only the vaginal portion of the cervix, or that there has been an exemption from the hemorrhages often caused by the disease. The mortality in labor, or immediately after it, is for mothers more than fifty per cent.; the foetal mor- tality in labor is more than sixty per cent. The treatment of cancer of the cervix in a pregnant woman is determined by the seat of the disease, and by its progress. If it be limited to the vaginal portion, and is advancing, amputation of the cervix should at once be per- formed ; this has several times been successfully done, and the pregnancy not interrupted. Even if the disease cannot be entirely removed, if there be severe hemorrhages, scraping away with Simon’s spoons all the diseased tissue that can be reached, and cauterization, are indicated. When labor comes on, delivery may possibly occur without intervention, but in many cases incisions into the degenerated, undilatable cervix are necessary, followed in some instances by the application of the forceps; in other cases, the child being alive, delivery by the Ceesarean operation would be indicated, but if the child were dead craniotomy would be preferable. The induction of abortion or of premature labor, once urged by obstetricians, and especially by the late Dr. Robert Lee, is no longer regarded as the best practice in these cases. Amputation of the Cervix Uteri. Amputation of the neck of the womb may be required by malignant dis- ease or by hypertrophy, either congenital or acquired; the last condition is regarded by Emmet as rarely justifying the operation. The instruments with which the amputation may be effected are the scissors or bistoury, the chain or wire ecraseur, the galvano-cautery—wire or knife—and finally the thermo- cautery. The selection should be governed by the special conditions of the case, and the surgeon will act most wisely by thus choosing, and not insisting that only one method must be always employed.