308 LITIIOTRITY. Iverson to await patiently an event so unlikely to occur, and, if occurring,, far more painful and hazardous than a well-conducted surgical operation. The methods of relief are practically but two: that by cutting and that by crushing. The first, notwithstanding the simplification of the operation, is still pregnant with danger, while advocates of the latter think it so little hazardous, and so well suited to calculi of every description, as to render the cutting operation under any circumstance uncalled for. But this is an error into which none but enthusiasts are likely to fall. To the first operation there must ever remain the dangers of shock, hemorrhage, inflammation, uri- nary infiltration, deep-seated abscess, gangrene, peritonitis, phlebitis, puru- lent infiltration, sympathetic affections of distant organs, as of the brain or pleurae, or of the bladder, extending to the ureters, kidneys, or intestines, and the less grave risks of urinary fistula, incontinence of urine, injury to the rectum, etc. Each method of operating has its peculiar perils, though some perils are common to both. Lithotrity has its own dangers; hut whatever its dangers, whatever its disadvantages, the field for its employment is steadily widening, and litho- trity is, now-a-days, preferred to lithotomy in cases where, twenty years ago, the crushing operation would have been considered inapplicable. Even the conditions which were then considered essential to its successful perform- ance—relating to the size and texture of the stone, the state of the viscus in which it is found, or of the channel along which the debris is to travel—are modified so as to admit a very much larger number of cases to this operation than was at one time thought to be possible. Lithotrity has its own dangers as well as its advantages, and to these and to those I shall now give attention. Dangers and Advantages of Lithotrity.—The term lithotrity, in its most extended sense, may include the seizing of a small calculus in the bladder and its extraction by the urethra ; it also includes the breaking up, compression in some way, crushing, squeezing, condensation, or perforation, of large calculi, and the removal of their debris, allowing this to pass by the urethra or to be washed out of the bladder. Manoeuvres so various have received various names, and the lover of Greek may find terms to his fancy or his astonish- ment: lithocenosis, lithodialysis, litholaby, lithomyly, lithontripsy, litho- tripsy, lithophagy, lithopriny, and lithotrity. The first eight have become almost obsolete; the last* is now commonly used. In no department of sur- gery, perhaps, have advances been more steady and more signal than in this modern operation; modern as concerns most of its essential features. Eor nothing could be so unlike the present procedure as the useof the three-pronged forceps which seized and endeavored to penetrate or pierce the calculus, the masehabarabilia of the Arabs, or the four-pronged instrument of France. But there is no satisfactory evidence that before the beginning of the present century a calculus of any size had ever been removed from the bladder with- out cutting—the testimony of Colonel Martine to the contrary notwithstand- ing. The calculi said to have been removed were from the urethra, and not from the bladder. There is nationality sometimes even in science, and, if we put aside the claims of Gruithuisen, who first taught that sounds of large calibre could be passed with ease through the urethra, the credit of having created lithotrity unquestionably belongs to France. To Leroy d’Etiolles is probably due the invention of the greater number of instruments designed for crushing stone, and to Civiale their more exten- sive employment. It is a singular fact that the introduction of the lithotrite was coeval with, and in a measure resulted from, the use of the straight catheter. Until the beginning of this century, a curve to a catheter was con-