PREVENTIVE TREATMENT OF STONE. 195 tive. Heller first found out how much uric acid he and his friend excreted daily under a stated diet. Then Heller lived for a week on rye and wlieaten bread, his friend on rye bread alone, water being their only drink. The uric acid was gradually replaced by hippuric acid, and finally only a trace of it remained In Heller’s urine, none at all in the urine of his friend. During the next week, having returned to ordinary diet, the hippuric acid diminished and the uric acid reappeared. (2) Exercise in the open air is a prime factor in the reduction of uric-acid deposits. Any one subject to these deposits can bear testimony to the value of a summer in the woods, or of horse-back exercise persistently practised. (3) The elimination of uric acid and its compounds by other channels than the kidney, is an important element in the preventive treatment of primary stone. It is on a par with the treatment of gout as carried out at Carlsbad, and indeed the dietary regulations are founded on the same basis. The plan is to act upon the liver and intestinal glands by one of the natural mineral waters containing sulphate of sodium and sulphate of magnesium in solution. Thompson has proved that a dose of one of these waters will be amply cathartic, although the actual amount of sulphate of magnesium and sulphate of sodium in the draught be only one-fourtli the amount required, if the same drugs are bought of the apothecary. The waters which are most suitable are the Hunyadi Janos and the Fried- riehshall. The former is nearly three times as rich in the requisite ingredients as the latter, and may be used in a correspondingly smaller dose. Both should be taken warm, fasting in the morning, and in some instances the effect is enhanced by diluting the draught, the Fried rich shall one-third, and the Hunyadi more than one-half, with hot water. The daily dose should be sufficient to cause one free and rather watery stool after breakfast, or even two at the beginning of a course. A small claret glass of Hunyadi, or a moderate tumblerful of Friederichshall, is the customary dose to begin with, but this may be reduced in most instances as the course goes on. At the beginning of such a course, and occasionally during its continuance, a blue pill may be administered with advantage, or a compound rhubarb pill (5 grains) with the addition of J-y-g- grain of blue pill (Thompson). Such a course should continue about two months, the mineral water being gradually reduced in amount each morning, and replaced by hot Carlsbad water, at a dose of about one tumblerful. The course may often be repeated with advantage after an interval of three or four months, and many patients will continue a light morning dose for years, with apparent advantage and no depleting effect. Where the patient is poor and cannot afford mineral waters, an efficient morning dose of Glauber’s salt, with a slight addition of sulphate of magne- sium, may be substituted. This course freshens the patient, diminishes dyspepsia, and increases the sense of comfort and well-being, while it unmis- takably reduces the amount of urates and uric acid in the urine. Another method of reducing the amount of uric acid is now undergoing investigation. Garrod lias observed that the urine of a sucking calf contains uric acid, but that when the calf gets older and lives on grass, the uric acid disappears and hippuric acid takes its place. Garrod also found that if the urine of a herbivorous animal was added to human urine and allowed to stand, no uric acid could be detected in the specimen, and that a solution of uric-acid calculus mixed with carbonate of lithium and added to the urine of a horse, failed to yield, when kept a few hours, any uric acid. The inference was plain, that the renal epithelia of the lierbivora were capable of excreting uric acid, but that the hippuric acid in solution subse- quently destroyed it.