326 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF TIIE BLADDER AND PROSTATE. must be made wherever there is tension, in accordance with the rules of surgery relating to this point. When the extravasation is secondary, it is unfortunately most frequently found taking place where it cannot be seen, into the cellular tissue around the neck of the bladder, giving rise to a very fatal form of pelvic cellulitis. In any case of wound or contusion in the neighborhood of the bladder, should there arise grounds for believing that urinary extravasation into the deeper tissues of the pelvis is going on, a most careful exploration by the huger, not only of the wound but also of the rectum, should be made, and if any indication, such as tension or fluctuation, be discovered, the surg-eon should not hesitate to make an incision. Even in the absence of evidence as to the direction urine may be taking, when signs of its extravasation are present at or about the usual time of separation of the sloughs—when it is not infrequent—I do not think that the question of performing perineal cystotomy for the purpose of providing drainage should be set aside. In Dr. Erskine Mason’s case, this measure was not adopted till sixty-two hours after the bladder bad been ruptured. If no exit for urine is fur- nished, if it be allowed to collect within the pelvis or become diffused among the tissues, a fatal result is unavoidable. Such a consideration, therefore, determines the expediency of opening the bladder when there are no other means of reaching the point from which the extravasation is proceeding. Pelvic cellulitis occurring under these circumstances, is much more likely on anatomical grounds to extend rapidly backward than to come forward. Hence it is important to recognize its earliest possible manifestations, and to- meet them without delay. In gunshot or other wounds in the neighborhood of the bladder, resulting from explosions, careful exploration of the wound must be made with the view of detecting, and if practicable removing, any foreign body which may be lodged within the viscus. The examination of the bladder with the catheter is a proceeding which should not be omitted under such circumstances. In many of the cases in which missiles, incrusted with phosphates, have been extracted by lithotomy, it is probable that in the first instance these were lodged in the vicinity of the bladder, into which they subsequently made their way by ulceration. Rupture of the Bladder. This injury is most frequently caused by the application of violence over the region of the bladder when the latter is in a more or less distended condition. Numerous instances are recorded in which the damage has been done in drunken quarrels by blows or kicks, or when in wrestling one man tumbles heavily, falling with his knee on the abdomen of his yielding or perhaps prostrate antagonist. The extreme frequency with which this acci- dent is associated with drunkenness has led to alcoholic influence being included amongst its predisposing causes. Mr. Rivington, in a recent article on this subject,1 speaks of intra-peri ton eal rupture as one of the penalties of drink, and adds to his own testimony that of M. Idouel,2 in the following quotation: “Alcohol has a double influence in predisposing to this injury, for it causes an increased and rapid secretion of urine, and quick distension of the bladder; it also deadens the sensitiveness of its mucous membrane, and the call to micturate is so feeble that it is disregarded by the drunkard, and the distension is allowed to increase.” The bladder has been ruptured, when distended, by violent muscular action. 1 Lancet, June 3, 1882. 2 Des Plaies et des Ruptures de la Vessie. Paris, 1S57.