909 SCROFULO-TUBERCULOUS AFFECTIONS OF BONES. they undergo caseation and soften, at the same time that a new layer of con- nective tissue is invaded and proliferates. The encysted tubercle which we have studied in the crude, indolent state, and in the state of softening with ossifluent abscesses extending to the joints or not, may also be met with in the state of cicatrization and cure. I shall not refer again to cysts which are the residue of cured tubercles. I wish to speak now of a more common and also a more happy termination. Justify- ing the definition of Grancher: “an inflammatory neoplasm with a fibro- caseous tendency,” encysted tubercle, after having voided its softened pro- ducts, may become the seat of a connective-tissue proliferation, abundant and vigorous enough to fill the cavity with granulations, the tufts of which, purged of all tuberculous elements by inflammation, lose by degrees their rich vascularity, and are transformed into stable fibrous tissue. This is a mode of recovery by no means rare. It may be favored, in some cases, by approximation of the walls of the bone-cavity in consequence of a pathologi- cal spontaneous fracture, as occurs sometimes in Pott’s disease, when the body of the vertebra has been reduced to a thin shell. So far from trying to hinder this form of fracture, it should therefore be favored and directed. (2) Tuberculous Infiltration of Nelaton ; Confluent Granulations of Ranvier. —“ Some authors have had an imperfect idea of this form of tuberculous affection of bones, but none of them have described it.” ISTelaton, who wrote Fig. 1443. Fig. 1444. mi vm Head of the femur after resection. B, diarthrodial cartilage showing multiple warty prominences. At the upper part is a more considerable elevation pro- duced by fungating masses, which are well seen in the next figure. A, neck of the femur. Between the head and the neck is seen an excavation, which was filled with fungous masses, and which communicated with the central tubercle seen in the following figure. these words, admits however that Nichet, of Lyons, mentioned in some of his observations the presence of caseous matter in the spaces of the spongy Head of the femur, removed in a resection for suppurating coxalgia by Professor OlMer. A, articular cartilage, at c, elevated by fungous masses; B, rarefaction and medullization of the spongy tissue ; d, d, foci of tuberculous osteitis of a. yellow color ; E, cavity of osteitis, containing a sequestrum surrounded by fun- gous growths ; o, o', o", splintered surface of bone below the line of section of the saw.