1167 HISTORY OF SURGERY. first marked out ; a simple incision is then made in a longitudinal direction for three or four fingers’ breadth below the armpit, along the inner aspect of the arm, in that part where the artery is most distinct to the touch ; the vessel being then carefully exposed by dividing and separating the parts that lie above it, and being drawn up with a blunt hook, is properly tied by two ligatures, and divided midway between them. . . . The tumor in the cavity or bend of the elbow may then be safely laid open, without the fear of an effusion of blood. Having emptied out the coagula, the artery whence the blood flowed is to be sought for, and when found, being drawn up with a hook as before, is to be tied and cut across. The account given by Aetius of “ the surgical treatment of cancer,” is an extract from Leonides, of the first century : — In the treatment of those cancers that arise upon the breast, I rely entirely upon surgery, which is done thus : I make the patient lie upon her back, then I cut upon the sound part of the breast above the cancer, and burn in the incision with a red-hot iron until a crust is formed sufficient to arrest the flow of blood; I immediately incise again and dissect up from the deepest part of the mamma, and again burn the incised parts, and after this I repeat the cutting following it with the red-hot iron sufficient to arrest the hemorrhage. The first burning is for the arrest of the hemorrhage, but afterwards the burning is for the removal of every vestige of diseased tissue. But often also when the indurated cancerous tumor is situated less deep in the breast, the entire operation is performed without the cautery, for in such cases it is sufficient to amputate to the sound parts, as there is no danger from hemorrhage. I have italicized the above words to call attention to the all-important point insisted upon by modern pathologists and surgeons, viz : “ the removal of every vestige of diseased tissue.” The operation of Leonides, in the first century, painful as it must have been when the priceless boon of anaesthesia was unknown, was nevertheless far more effective and radical than the mode of operation still often practised in this nineteenth century of boasted science and skill. Aetius also furnishes us two very interesting chapters taken from Philu- menus, a distinguished surgeon and gynaecologist of the second century ; one “ on the causes of difficult labor,” and the other “ on the dissection and extraction of the fcetus.” In the chapter “ on the surgical treatment of abscesses of the womb” (pelvic abscess) we find the earliest directions for the use of the vaginal speculum. This is taken from Archigenes, of the first century. The directions run thus:— If the abscess is situated about the mouth of the womb, so that surgical treatment can be used, we should not be in haste to open it too early, but wait until the disease is perfected by the greater increase of the inflammation, whereby the parts containing the pus are thinned. And then the woman is placed supine in a chair, with her legs drawn up upon the abdomen and her thighs separated, with her arms brought down under the legs and properly secured by a cord passing over her neck; she is then placed before a clear light, when the surgeon, seated by her right side, separates the pudenda with the speculum (dioptra) suited to the age of the patient, and makes an examination, and with a sound measures the length of the vagina so that he may not compress the uterus with the stem of a speculum longer than the vagina. And if it is found that the stem is greater than the vagina, rolls of wool should be placed upon the labia or sides of the pudenda, so that the speculum itself is made firmer. The stem should be introduced with the screw turned to the upper part; then, while the surgeon holds the speculum, the screw is turned by an assistant, so that by separating the blades the vagina is dis- tended.1 / 1 I am somewhat indebted to an interesting article by Prof. Maughs, in the Journal of the Am. Med. Assoc., vol. ii. p. 225, March 1, 1884, entitled “.'what the ancients knew concerning obstetrics and gynaecology.” In this article are to be found several extremely interesting extracts from the works of Aetius, translated by Prof. Maughs, with judicious commentaries.