CARCINOMATA OF BONE. 999 the former situation, it necessitates as radical an ablation of all the diseased parts as is possible. In the lower limb, the question is between amputation of the thigh and disarticulation of the knee-joint. With modern antiseptic procedures, I prefer the latter operation, which gives much the better result from a functional point of view. Epitheliomata of the bones, whether primary or secondary, are rarely accompanied by generalization, though they very frequently give rise to enlargements of the lymphatic glands. But when the tumor is intra-medullary from the beginning, as in primary can- croid, it soon causes cachexia, very probable because of the development of the affection in a tissue as vascular as the marrow of bone. Carcinomata of Bone. Although the majority of the malignant tumors described by the ancients under the name of cancer of bone, belong to the class of sarcomata, neverthe- less a certain number are primary carcinomata. (Volkmann, Cornil and Ran- vier.) Most often, carcinomata of the bones are secondary, whether they result from the propagation to the bone-tissue of carcinomatous products of the soft parts, or whether they are deposited in the bones as the result of generalization of primary carcinoma of the soft parts or of the viscera. (Jamain and Terrier.) Pathological Anatomy.—The commonest form of carcinoma of the bones is the encephaloid, which often exhibits great vascular richness. Primary carcinoma, which occurs especially in the bones of the face, cranium, verte- bral column, and pelvis, in the epiphyses of the large long bones, and finally in the sternum, is seen in two distinct forms—the circumscribed, and the infil- trated or diffuse. The circumscribed variety appears in the form of bosse- lated masses, of variable consistence, pretty well limited, and sometimes covered with a true fibrous capsule, sometimes with a very fragile shell of bone, which is never present except at the beginning. When the carcinoma is infiltrated or diffuse, it is seen in masses scattered through the medulla, either of the diaphysis or of the epiphysis. This form, which has been studied and described by Forster, attacks a large number of bones at the same time, and generally starts in the vertebrae. The bone-tissue, destroyed by the neoplasm, loses all power of resistance. Accordingly fractures are seen to occur, or rather deformities analogous to those of osteomalacia, whence this variety has received the name of carcinomatous osteomalacia. (Forster, Volkmann.) Secondary carcinoma is usually mot with after cancer of the testicle, of the uterus, or of the breast. It may be situated in the majority of the bones, especially in the spinal column, in the cranium, and in the pelvis. (Follin, ft. Volkmann.) Etiology.-—Carcinoma of bone seems to occur almost equally in the two sexes, although secondary carcinoma of the vertebral column, which ordinarily follows carcinoma of the breast, is most frequent in women. The age of the patients is usually from forty to fifty years.1 Symptomatology.—The pains in carcinoma of bone are acute, and appear early. Far from lessening with time, they only increase in severity as the tumor enlarges. The morbid mass sometimes attains a considerable size. Its consistence is usually unequal, certain parts being remarkably soft, and even exhibiting a false fluctuation, which may lead to the belief that there is an abscess, especially if the skin is hot and red. Parchment-like crepi- tation is rare. On the other hand, it is quite common to find pulsation, 1 Verneuil et Marchand, Diet. Encyclopedique des Sciences Medicates, art. Os.