URINARY CALCULUS. 196 G-arrod also investigated the conversion of benzoic acid into hippuric acid in the animal economy, and is now experimenting with hippurates and ben- zoates of sodium and potassium with results that he at present only indicates- as having given him “great advantage” in the treatment of gout, of gravel, and of calculus.1 (4) Simple dilution of the urine is another useful means of counteract- ing tendencies to acid stone formation. If properly carried out, no harm comes of it, and at least negatively it has value, for the greater the quantity of water with a given amount of solids to be eliminated, the less will be the tendency to precipitation. Many individuals with concentrated acid urine have very little thirst, and are habitually light drinkers of water. A habit of drinking water freely may be encouraged. During meal times it is better to drink hot than cold water. The digestion is aided by such draughts. Between meals at any time a glass of water may be taken, and if it is not too near a meal, iced water is as harmless as anything else. On retiring, also, a glass of water is particularly useful, since it serves to dilute the urine secreted during the night, which is more concentrated than that secreted at any other time. Filtered rain water is excellent for these purposes of dilu- tion, or any of the simple diluent spring waters—the Bethesda, Poland, Mountain Valley, etc. (5) The use of solvents is a very prompt method by which urates and uric acid may he made to disappear, but it has less real value than those already mentioned for continuous use. By administering the citrate or the acetate of potassium, or the bicarbonate of sodium or potassium, or by the use of Vichy, Buffalo Lithia, or other natural alkaline mineral waters, the urates and crystals may usually be made to disappear from the urine, and the uric acid storms, as they have been called, may be calmed. These agents are of undoubted value, and in many conditions approaching an emergency can hardly be dispensed with. Their promptly effective action so long as the stomach is tolerant, is a valuable aid to the surgeon. For prolonged use, and when the patient’s tendencies toward acid formation are very strong, the alkaline solvent treatment is not always available, since it may induce dyspepsia and lead to anaemia. When alkalies are used, they should be exhibited during the third hour after eating, at the time when the acid in the chyme is neutralized, or has been reabsorbed. Then the alkali is promptly absorbed and exerts its maximum effect upon the urine.2 In my experience, if a course of alkalies is suitable and necessary for a very long period in the preventive treatment of stone, the boro-citrate of magnesium is a good preparation. This nearly tasteless powder may be taken dry upon the tongue in a dose of ten or more grains, and washed down with a swallow of water. It seems to tax the stomach less than the citrate of potassium, and some patients assert that it is of service. Like other alkalies, it should be given during the third hour after eating. The formation of oxalate-of-lime crystals, as is well known, may be modi- fied by the use of dilute nitro-muriatic acid, and the aid of this drug may be invoked in acute outbursts of uric-acid or oxalate-of-lime crystallization when digestion is at fault. To prevent cystine formation, Beale3 uses carbonate of ammonium freely. (6) An attempt to avoid crystallization in colloidal forms, is, perhaps, the most scientific direction that the preventive treatment of stone can take, hut it is at the same time the most vague. The main colloid for acid stone is 1 Loc. cit., p. 673. 2 Ralfe, Observations on Urinary Pathology and Therapeutics. Lancet, Nov. 9, 1879. 3 Lancet, August 30, 1884, p. 263.