VARICOCELE. 589 The galvanic cautery is used by Mr. Pearce Gould, of the Middlesex Hospital, for the cure of varicocele. In all his cases the result has been admirable. The patient having been anesthetized and the part shaved, Mr. Gould pinches up and separates the veins from the vas deferens, passes a long, narrow-bladed knife, with the side of its blade turned towards the veins, through the scrotum ; a platinum wire threaded on a needle is next passed along the track made by the knife, and afterwards in front of the veins, emerging at the point of its entrance. The ends of the wire are passed through the connecting tubes of a galvanic ecraseur, and clamped. Connection is made with the battery, using sufficient cells to cause a faint hissing noise ; one cell of Grove’s battery, or at most two, will be found sufficient. The wire is then drawn upon by the instrument, and made to cut its way slowly through the veins; this it does in about live minutes. The skin about the point of exit of the wire is prevented from becoming much burnt by dropping a little water on the hot wire at this spot during the first part of the proceeding. This operation is attended with very little after-pain, and, when the patient is convalescent, a small hard nodule may be felt where the veins have been cut across. The patient is allowed to leave his bed in a week, by which time the wound has quite healed, a radical cure necessarily resulting. The simplest form of subcutaneous operation is when a ligature is passed round the varicose veins under the skin. Since the introduction of antisep- tics, carbolized catgut has been used. In some instances the veins have only been ligatured for forty-eight hours; in others the ligature has been passed through holes in metal plates, and tied over an India-rubber tube, or simply to projections from the plates. Mr. Barker1 having washed the parts carefully with a solution of carbolic acid (1—20), and also the instruments and his hands, separates the varicose veins from the vas deferens, and, having notched the scrotum by passing a narrow knife behind the veins with the flat of its blade towards them, carries a needle armed with a double silk ligature, which has been soaked in the solution for one hour, first behind and then in front of the veins. Two loops of silk leave the scrotum at the same hole; the ends are tied tightly about one-eighth of an inch apart, cut short, and allowed to drop into the scrotum. The part is dressed with salicylated wool. The swelling and after-pain are slight, and there is no suppuration, the wounds healing readily. The patients are in hospital for ten days or a fortnight. In one case, seen a year after the operation, the ligatures, which gave no pain, could be felt as hard knots deep in the scrotal tissues, which were normal. Excision of Veins.—In order to effect a radical cure of the varicocele, and at the same time to avoid all risks of pyaemia, some surgeons have of late exposed and removed a portion of the varicose veins, operating with anti- septic precautions. The part having been shaved and well disinfected by washing with carbolic acid lotion (1-20), an incision about two inches long is made over the prominent veins, mid- way between the external abdominal ring and the testicle. Having isolated the veins which it is intended to remove, the surgeon passes with an aneurism needle a double fine catgut ligature under them, and, having tied the veins in two places, removes the portion intervening between the ligatures, cuts the catgut off short, provides for the drainage, and having stitched the edges of the wound together, applies antiseptic dress- ings in the same manner as recommended after the antiseptic incision for the radical cure of hydrocele. The wound may be expected to heal in a few days, and after con- finement to bed for a fortnight or so, the patient may be allowed to get up, wearing a suspensory bandage. In this operation, as in others on the veins, some induration lasts for several weeks, but will gradually become absorbed. Mr. Ilowse2 speaks in high terms of this method of operating, and narrates five cases thus treated with success. Mr. Jacobson3 strongly recommends the * Lancet, 1882. 2 Guy’s Hospital Reports, 1877. * Holmes’s System of Surgery, 3d ed., vol. iii. p. 571.