516 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE URETHRA. tion of the sui faces may he very satisfactory by one or other of these methods of suture, it is made more perfect still by the employment of the shotted suture with a single wire, analogous to that which I have recommended in the treat- ment of hypospadia.1 Urethrorraphy. prac- tised according to the preceding principles, very often gives excellent results; never- theless, in some cases of extensive loss of substance, it proves inefficacious, and re- course should then be had to urethroplasty. 3. Urethroplasty.—Here the methods are extremely numerous, and I shall limit my- self to indicating the principal ones, refer- ring the reader to special works, and to the Thesis of Cocteau, who has presented a complete study of these procedures. Ac- cording to this last author, these operations may be arranged in two great classes, ac- cording as they belong to the Indian method or to the French method. The procedures of the Indian method con- sist in taking a flap from a neighboring region and turning it over so that its bleed- © © ing surface may be in contact with the edges of the fistula, previously freshened. The flap has been taken either from the scrotum (Sir Astley Cooper), from the in- guinal region (Delpecli), or, finally, from the crural or from the abdominal region (Jobert). These more or less complicated operations have furnished only indifferent results. The procedures of the French method form two classes, according as the flaps, transferred by sliding, are united by their edges or brought into apposition by surfaces. The procedures which belong to the first class consist either in dissecting up the skin which surrounds the fistula, and drawing it up until it covers the latter, or in cutting lateral or anterior and posterior flaps, which are left adherent by their extremities, and which are loosened at the part which corresponds to the fistula, so as to bring them together by sliding and to unite them edge to edge in front of the abnormal opening. All these methods are inferior to those of the second class. Among the latter, the simplest are the methods of Delpech, in which a flap, taken either from before or behind the fistula and brought over it by sliding, is applied against a freshened surface, previously prepared either in front of or behind the abnormal opening. Other and more complicated procedures are those which have been desig- nated by the name of “doubling methods,” or methods “ by a double flap.” Among these are the methods of Artaud, of Rigaud, and of Sedillot. They all consist in cutting a penile flap and a scrotal flap, which reciprocally cover each other, and fully obliterate the fistula. Let me cite still the method of Helaton, by splitting and apposition of sur- faces. In this method (Fig. 1354) the edges of the fistula are freshened, If transverse incisions are made, C _D, involving the skin and the subcutaneous tissue of the penis beyond the superior and inferior limits of the perforation, and to a distance of about two centimetres. The flaps are dissected from 1 See Figures 1345 and 1346, p. 495, supra.