641 FUNCTIONAL DISORDERS OF THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. stains spermatozoa in a fluid composed of iodine, one part; iodide of potassium, four parts ; water, one hundred parts. Longuet uses an ammoniacal carmine solution. The earliest age at which normal spermatozoa appear has not been defi- nitely fixed, but Liegeois has found them in abundance in young subjects eight times: two 14, four 16, and two 18 years old. Wagner was the first to demonstrate normal spermatozoa in the semen of old men. Casper found them in a man 96 years old. M. Duplay examined the semen of 51 old men, and found spermatozoa present in 72.55 per cent., and absent in 27.45 per cent. M. Dieu examined 105 cases at the Hotel des Invalides, and found spermatozoa present in 39 per cent., and absent in 61 per cent. In one-third of the above cases the spermatozoa were comparatively few in number, and not well formed as to size and caudal development. In a case of encysted hydrocele of the epididymis, recently tapped for a man aged 70, at King’s College Hospital, the milky, slightly albuminous fluid, six ounces in quan- tity, was crowded with well-formed and lively spermatozoa. Healthy men suffer from time to time during sleep from erotic dreams, which give rise to seminal emissions or pollutions ; these are not only attended by dreams, but the individuals have erections, and awake at the time that emission takes place. These emissions are most common in young men with strong sexual feelings, which remain ungratified by sexual intercourse ; as age advances, the testicles do not secrete so readily, and emissions happen but seldom. They occur more frequently to some than to others, and depend on the man’s constitution, his occupation, mode of thought, diet, and the climate in which he lives. As a rule, an emission of this kind is followed by a sense of relief, and the health is not affected by it; the secretion of the testicles accumulates, and by its presence causes a feeling of uneasiness in the day time, and during sleep stimulates the vesiculse seminales to contract. These seminal emissions, as long as they are not too frequent, are physiologi- cal and not morbid, and there is no hard and fast line separating the former from the latter state. The mere enumeration of the emissions does not suf- fice to determine whether they are morbid or not, as the health is affected sooner in some men than it is in others. They may take place every night, or even oftener, and may be attended by imperfect erection, and no sensation of emission. As they increase in frequency, the amount of semen lost each time is diminished. The patient is disinclined to exert his mind or his body, and complains of pain in the back and palpitation of the heart, which are associated with dyspepsia; his memory becomes enfeebled, and, owing to nervousness, his speech becomes thick, and he is at a loss for words to express his thoughts. After nocturnal emissions have persisted for some time, pollutions occur involuntarily in the day time. Healthy men do not pass semen involuntarily when awake; even when exposed to great sexual excitement, only a slight moisture, due to the escape of a drop of natural mucus, is perceived when the erection subsides. When a patient complains that nocturnal emissions take place too frequently, it is wise to take measures to lessen their occurrence, as when they are oft repeated the parts become irritable, and freely secrete and as freely discharge the seminal secretion. The case becomes serious when emissions occur not only frequently during sleep, but also when the patient is awake, and when they take place involun- tarily and without the usual voluptuous sensations. In cases suffering from diurnal pollutions, female society, friction of the trousers, a ride on horseback, or the motion of a railway carriage, will induce an emission, as will also appeals to the imagination by obscene books or pictures; these last may he called psychical causes, affecting the brain, in contradistinction to others which have to do with reflex action. VOL. vi.—41