819 UTERINE TUMORS. nosis, which, until then, is as difficult as it is after that period simple and certain to the experienced touch. Differentiation.—The lesions with which carcinoma is likely to he con- founded are: (1) Laceration of the cervix with much ectropion and ero- sion; (2) Diphtheritic inflammation of the cervix; (8) Syphilitic ulceration,’ or condylomata, of the cervix; (4) Retention of products of conception in the canal; (5) Sloughing polypi or fibroids; (6) Sarcoma of the cervix. From what has been said above, it would seem that a differential diagnosis of cancer could easily be made from any of these conditions. As a fact this is not so. In the early stage (precisely when it is most important for the patient’s future) this is well nigh impossible; and, without microscopic aid, quite impossible in some cases. If this be true with experts, and it is true, the reader may infer how often errors of diagnosis are made by the mass of prac- titioners. I have frequently seen cases in consultation (and can recall two as occurring within the last six months), where a wrong diagnosis, or no diag- nosis, had been made, although sprouting epithelioma or encephaloid of the cervix filled the entire vagina. Another source of confusion here is due to the fact, pointed out by Emmet, and also by Ruge and Veit, that some of these lesions (as, for instance, the old erosions of a badly lacerated cervix) merge insensibly into malignant disease. Spiegelberg’s tests—of the mobil- ity (or immobility) of the cervical mucous membrane, and the dilatability of the cervix by tents—are fallacious or impracticable. Only the minutest and most painstaking care, investigation of the antecedent history, and accurate vaginal, rectal, arid microscopical examination, will enable the surgeon to reach a correct verdict. Prognosis.—In carcinoma uteri the prognosis is so grave that we concern ourselves chiefly with the question of the possible duration of life, and not with that of ultimate recovery. That one, or possibly two, seemingly authenticated cases1 of spontaneous cure should be on record is, perhaps, an interesting fact in medical history; but it in nowise affects the result of statis- tical inquiry. This is that the patient’s average expectation of life is from one to three years from the date of the first appreciable symptoms, if no effort be made to treat the disease ; and, as far as can be inferred from the statistics of Schroeder, M. Hofmeier, and A. Martin, that from two to five years of life may be added to this if vaginal, or supra-vaginal, extirpation be performed.2 When death (without operative interference) occurs, it is usually from uraemia, or other form of septicaemia, peritonitis, exhaustion, or (most rarely) hemorrhage. The first-named of these causes of death is much more frequent than has been supposed; peritonitis is rarely fatal unless complicated by per- foration ; general exhaustion and marasmus are quite common. Treatment.—In modern practice, the treatment of uterine cancer is essen- tially surgical. Ro effort will, therefore, be made to describe here the medical treatment which has been vainly attempted in the past. The treatment may be either palliative or radioed; in the near future, it may perhaps be termed curative, for, with the constant improvement of our present methods, the pos- sibility of our treating the disease successfully seems largely dependent upon the possibility of our detecting it in its earliest stage. Unhappily at present this is often beyond our ken; and the facts that the inception of the malady is overlooked, that the nature of the uterine tissue is especially favorable for its development, and that it is impossible to remove secondary pelvic deposits 1 Barnes, Diseases of Women. London, 1878. 2 Centralblatt fur Gyn., Nov. 1885.