INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE (ESOPHAGUS. 36 (1) External (Esophagotomy.—Although suggested as early as 1643,1 and successfully performed as early as 1738,2 this operation, through lack of experience with it, was long avoided by surgeons, owing to an erroneous impression as to the difficulty of its execution and its unfavorable prognosis. More recent experiences having happily reversed this opinion, it is acknowl- edged as a legitimate resource of surgery under circumstances indicating its performance. In fact, during the last thirty years very few deaths have been reported after cesophagotomy for foreign body. When practicable, it is regarded as the safer procedure to perform external cesophagotomy with the aid of a guide, passed in by the mouth and pressed against the tube so that it can be felt externally. When such a guide is ready-furnished by an im- pacted foreign body, it is customary to cut down upon it whether on the right side or on the left. Under other circumstances the left side is preferred as the most accessible. Special sounds or conductors, to be passed through the mouth, have been devised as guides for the incision, some armed with a projectible lance to pierce the tissues through to the outside,3 and some armed with projectible levers to push the wall forcibly forwards ;4 5 but a lithotomy staff, or an ordinary metallic or even a flexible bougie, answers the purpose. The point of election for cesophagotomy is the region com- prised between the superior and inferior thyroid arteries,® which may be reached as follows—practically the method described by Guattani,6 with such modifications as experience has dictated:—7 The patient is laid in the recumbent posture with the shoulders and thorax somewhat elevated, the head being slightly bent backward, and being turned toward the right when the incision is to be made on the left. The integu- mentary incision is best made along the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle (Rielierand), to the inner side, although the incision preferred by some operators is one parallel with the trachea (Begin). Its length should com- prise the space from the superior margin of the thyroid cartilage to within an inch or less of the sterno-clavicular articulation. In cesophagotomy for a prominent foreign body, the central portion of the incision is usually made right over the body. The superficial cervical fascia and the platysma being next divided, any veins requiring section are to be secured with double liga- tures before they are severed, and the dissection is then to be continued, with blunt instruments as much as practicable, through the layers of fascia until the border of the sterno-mastoid muscle is exposed. The tension of the parts is then to be relaxed by raising the head slightly, and the edge of the sterno- mastoid muscle is pulled outward and backward with sharp double hooks, so as to expose the common carotid artery and accompanying nerves, which are visible through the middle cervical fascia. This fascia is next to be divided longitudinally, and drawn outward and backward with strong hooks, when the carotid artery may be expected to slip beyond the field of operation to the outside. The omo-hyoid muscle, which crosses the track of the incision at the upper portion of the wound, if in the way, is to be pulled aside, or, if requisite, is to be divided (Begin) near the hyoid bone, so as to avoid the descending branch of the hypoglossal nerve which crosses its central portion (Michel). 1 Verduc, Pathologie Chirurgicale, t. ii. p. 857. 1643 ; cited by Terrier. 2 By Goursauld (Mem. de l’Acad. Royale de Chirurgie, t. iii. p. 10. Paris, 1819 ; cited by Terrier). 3 Sonde-a-dard of Frtre Come, referred to by Giraud, Vignardonne, and others. 4 Ectopoesophage of Vacca Berlingliieri (Della Esofagotomia. Pisa, 1820 ; cited by Michel and others). 5 Vacca Berlinghieri, op cit. 6 Memoires de l’Acad. Royale de Chirurgie, t. iii. p. 351. Paris, 1747. 7 Begin, Arnott, Langenbcck, Cheever, and others.