INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE (ESOPHAGUS. 20 In addition, there are a few records of transposition of the oesophagus, and one or more of annular bifurcation with rejunction.1 The great majority of cases of malformation of the oesophagus occur in individuals with malfor- mations elsewhere. Of 63 patients referred to by Mackenzie, concerning only three was it stated that there was no other deformity, while in 19 others the condition of other organs was not mentioned, or it was stated that they had not been examined. In fully two-thirds of these malformations, 43 out of 63, the deformity consisted of a central deficiency of the oesophagus, the two ex- tremities communicating with the air-passages—by far most frequently (40 instances out of the 43), with the trachea, and in the remaining instances with the bronchi. This deformity approaches teratologically the annular bifurcation of the intact oesophagus, and seems to indicate that the gullet may be developed from centres at its extremities. In nine instances the oeso- phagus terminated in a blind pouch ; in five there was no oesophagus at all; in two there was inter-communication with the trachea, the oesophagus being otherwise normal; in one the diaphragm shut off the oesophagus ; in one there was a complete membranous partition in the cervical portion ; in one there was a permeable valvular membranous obstruction in the cervical portion; in one there was a longitudinal division of the oesophagus; and in one there was a probably congenital pouch. Embryologists have not yet accounted satisfactorily for malformations of the gullet. Diagnosis.—-The question of the existence of a malformation may be enter- tained when the infant rejects by mouth, or by mouth and nose, nearly all the milk taken, unaltered in appearance. Symptoms of suffocation often attend attempts to nurse, in instances where the oesophagus is in communication with the air-passage. Careful exploration with a sound, in such instances,, ought to reveal either an obstruction at some point of the tube, or a com- munication with the air-passage. Prognosis.—Surgery as yet seems to afford no hope for relief in these cases. For cases of supposed simple imperforation, without communication with the air-passages, the suggestion has been made2 to cut down upon the point of a guide introduced into the pharynx, and then to attempt to trace the oblit- erated oesophagus down the front of the spine until its lower dilated portion should be found. Then a gum catheter could be passed through the lower portion. If the two portions were sufficiently near each other to be connected by silver sutures over the catheter, and if the latter could be retained until union had taken place, it is thought that permanent success might be obtained. I am unaware that these views have been adopted by other surgeons. It is possible that good results might follow attempts at relief by gastrostomy. In most of the cases alluded to, death has taken place at periods varying from two hours to twelve days—a matter of normal vigor, apparently indepen- dent of the nature of the malformation. In one exceptional case of traeheo- cesophageal fistula, with otherwise normal oesophagus, the subject lived seven weeks,3 owing to the favorable form of the fistula, which hindered to some extent the escape of matters into the air-passage. Morbid Growths of the (Esophagus. Benign Growths.—Benign morbid growths of the oesophagus are rare. As most of the recorded cases,4 some twenty-five in number, were not dis- 1 Blasius, Observationes medic* rariores. Lugd. Bat., 1674 ; cited by Mondiere (Arch. Gen. de Med., 2e serie, t. ii. p. 507, 1833) ; Sebastien and St. Hilaire, case cited by Michel (loc. cit.). 2 Holmes, Surgical Treatment of Children’s Diseases. 3 Lamb, loc. cit. 4 Collated by Voigtel, Handbuch der pathologisch. Anatomie, Bd. ii. S. 427. 1804 (cited by Zenker and Ziemssen) ; Mondiere, Arch. Gen. de Med., Sept. 1833, pp. 53-57 ; Middeldorpf, De