675 RUPTURES AND WOUNDS OF THE VAGINA. varying with the resistance met; usually only an hour, often less than this, is required to effect sufficient dilatation for the introduction of the finger. Of course, dilatation is forbidden by inflammation of the uterus or of adjacent structures. The patient should lie in bed during the process, and there remain for a day after it and the following examination. Tiie curette, or Emmet’s curette-forceps, may be used to remove fragments of an intra-uterine growth, and its general appearance, or a microscopic examination, will determine its true nature. The Exploring Needle.—This may be used to ascertain whether a tumor is fluid or solid, and, if the former, the nature of the fluid, whether purulent, sanguineous, serous, etc. The diagnosis of abdominal tumors, uterine, ovarian, or other, by chemical or microscopic examination, is treated of elsewhere. Examination by the microscope of vaginal or of uterine discharges may be in some cases of great value, as, for example, in determining by the pres- ence or absence of the gonococcus, the nature of a vaginal or uterine inflam- mation. Ruptures and "Wounds of the Vagina. Ruptures of the vagina occur almost exclusively in'child-birth, and they .are then either spontaneous or traumatic ; the traumatism is usually done by the hand or by the obstetric forceps, but it may happen in the extraction of fragments of the foetal bones. Spontaneous rupture in the upper part of the vagina is frequently asso- ciated with rupture of the uterus, involving the same accidents and symp- toms, and requiring the same treatment, while that of the lower or middle part generally arises from stenosis of the canal. In spontaneous ruptures of the upper portion of the vagina, the injury may involve1 more than half the vaginal circumference, and in one2 instance, where simple traction upon the cord was followed by the extraction of the uterus, the placenta being still within it, the probability is that the uterus was by spontaneous rupture of the vagina so nearly separated from its vaginal attachment that only a slight force was needed to make the separation complete. Fehling3 lias recorded a remarkable instance of rupture of the vagina occurring in a woman 63 years old. The subject had suffered from vaginal prolapsus for several years, and this having been increased by severe exertion, she endeavored with her fingers to push back the protruding parts, was suddenly conscious of something having given way in her body, and found intestines protruding from the vagina. She died in eleven hours, and the autopsy revealed a transverse rent, six and a half centimetres long, in the posterior vaginal vault. Thirial4 has narrated a case where two sages femmes, endeavoring to dilate the vagina of a woman in labor, had torn the vesico-vaginal wall and the urethra so that the entire hand could be introduced into the bladder. The vagina has been torn in coition, and, according to Diemerbroeck6 and I)ages,6 each of whom has reported an example, the tear may be followed by a fatal hemorrhage. Serious rents occurring in connection with this act have 1 Collins’s Midwifery; Trans. Obstet. Soc. Lond., vol. xx. 2 Lancet, vol. i., 1869. 3 Arch. f. Gynakologie, 1873. 4 Bibliotheque du Medecin-Praticien, Art. Plaies et ruptures du vagin. 6 Anatom, lib. i. 6 Diet, de M6d. et de Chirurg. Prat.