ELYTRORRAPHY. 741 which may be transverse or longitudinal; and if restoration of the perineum and narrowing of the vulvar opening, or the latter alone, be done with pos- terior colporraphy, the perineum being entire, the operation is known as colpo-perineorraphy. Anterior Colporraphy.—The operation consists in removing a portion of the mucous membrane of the anterior vaginal surface, and in stitching together the sides of the denuded part. Operators vary as to the size and form of the denuded surface, though in regard to the latter, the ellipse, or some modification of it, is that which has been usually selected. The operation is indicated in cases of otherwise incurable prolapsus of the anterior vaginal wall, cystocele being almost always present, and also more or less descent of the uterus. In most cases it is simply preliminary to pos- terior colporraphy. Three operations, Emmet’s, Hegar’s, and' Schroeder’s, will be described. Emmet's Anterior Colporraphy.—The patient at first lies upon her back, and the uterus is anteverted, and held in anteversion by means of a sponge probang; she is now turned upon her left side, and the anterior vaginal wall is exposed with a Sims’s speculum. With a tenaculum in each hand, the operator finds two points which can be brought together with slight tension, one on each side of the cervix and about half an inch from it, and a little behind the line of the anterior lip; each point is the centre of a half-inch square, which is then denuded. Next, a strip of vaginal mucous membrane, an inch long and half an inch broad, is removed from in front of the uterus. A needle threaded with silk carries a silver wire beneath the freshened sur- faces, and when the wire is twisted the three are brought together. In the subjoined illustration a and c represent the lateral denudations, and b the central one; the twisted wire brings a and c in contact with b. Fig. 141G. Anterior colporraphy. (Emmet’s method.) Two longitudinal folds are formed upon the vaginal wall by bringing these points together, and they inclose a space having somewhat the form of an elongated ellipse, as is seen in the next illustration (Fig. 1417). The next step is to denude the summits of these folds, avoiding the loss of blood, if thought desirable, by freshening only half an inch at a time, and then stitching this before denuding any more; four or five sutures are re- quired for each inch, and they should not produce'undue tension ; the folds are lost at the lower portion of the vagina, and there of course the denuda- tion and stitching also end. A self-retaining sigmoid catheter is introduced, or, if this cannot be borne, the urine is evacuated every few hours ; the stitches are removed in eight or ten days. Hegar's Method.—The form of the denudation is that of an ellipse, nar- rowed below, and blunt or widened above ; the subjoined diagram (Fig. 1418) shows the freshened surface with the sutures introduced.