1109 CONSTRUCTION AND ORGANIZATION OF HOSPITALS the dispensary should be here, or in an annex, to remove its disagreeable accom- paniments from the main building. Such an arrangement can be comfort- ably made in a basement story 10 feet high, with its floor 4 or 5 feet below the ground-level, and good windows can be bad by “ banking off” the earth in front of them. Corridors leading to other service-buildings may have closed basements, with the same floor-level; and other corridors may extend to the pavilions, currents of air being prevented from entering the wards by a proper system of swinging doors. Such convenience of communication is of great importance in cold climates for many purposes, besides furnishing a way for steam and water pipes, etc., and for carrying food in a satisfactory manner. There can be, very easily, an absolute cut-off' of air-way in such a corridor- basement, by making a bridge of a short section of it, or by leaving the sides open with wire guards and projecting roofs to keep out rain and snow; and there may be doors both ways from this open space, thus making a short covered way at any desired point near a pavilion or other service-building. On the principal floor these corridors should have entirely open sides, or at least sections of them should be open. Terraced walks on the corridor roofs are very useful in connecting the two-story buildings. The administration-building need not be as large as it is often made, and a good general rule for the arrangement of its offices is, that all business between its chief office and the outside public, including the visiting medical staff', etc., should be done on the first floor; and that all business pertaining, in the main, to internal domestic affairs, and requiring communication with the wards, should be done in the basement offices by way of the corridor connections. This avoids confusion between public business and the internal concerns of the household. The upper stories of this building should serve only as the residence of officers and house-servants. The provision of a cer- tain degree of domestic privacy and comfort is not only humane, hut has its product in the general welfare, in the better service that can be given on a basis of good health. To the same end, a separate residence for the superin- tendent of a large hospital has definite economic value. The kitchen building should have its complement of rooms for cooking appliances, bakery, store-rooms, refrigerators, etc., and, with its floor a few feet below the level of the ground, its roof need not be more than 10 or 12 feet above. This building should be of one story only, for the most part, and its principal rooms should be well lighted and ventilated, and made airy by a monitor roof. Thus it will be comparatively low, the air will cir- culate more freely over it and among the buildings, and the winds will tra- verse the hospital grounds with less obstruction. The same rule applies to the laundry building, but this, for some reasons, is more convenient if placed on the ground level, in which case there is no objection to having the ser- vice-corridor incline upward, but there should then be an effective cut-off' at its connection with the laundry. If this building be suitably placed, the iron- ing-rooms and drying-rooms may be in a second story, and less ground-space will be occupied. There should be, apart from the laundry proper, a rinse-house, to which all badly-soiled clothing and offensive dressings should be taken at once from the wards, in tight metal pails, for a preliminary cleansing. The disinfect- ing-room should be in this house, fitted with apparatus for applying dry heat or superheated steam to articles of clothing, mattresses, etc. An excellent chapter on the hospital laundry may be found in the “ Handbook for IIos- pitals” already referred to. The boiler-house generally requires that its floor shall be at a lower level than that of other buildings, and for this purpose advantage may be taken sometimes of sloping ground. This building and the laundry should be near