INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE PENIS. 537 An old man was admitted into King’s College Hospital under Sir Wm. Fergusson’s care, with thickening of the foreskin, contraction of its orifice, and incontinence of urine; the foreskin was removed, and the man was relieved of his vesical symptoms. A thickened condition of the integument of the penis and foreskin is at times associated with chronic and repeated attacks of cutaneous syphilis; this condition is to be treated with anti-syphilitic remedies. When the phi- mosis is due to some inflammatory cause, the best treatment is to remove the inflammation by rest, elevation of the penis, and the free use of injections with a suitable syringe. It is not advisable to operate-on the foreskin when it is acutely inflamed, or when the parts are very oedematous, as the wounds will gape a good deal and be slow to heal. In such cases stitches are of little value. As a rule, when chancroids are concealed beneath the foreskin, a cutting operation is not advisable, as the wound would take on chancroidal action and heal slowly. In cases of acute inflammation, however, when it is evident from the swelling, pain, and redness, and from the offensive nature of the discharge, that a sloughing chancroid is hidden under the tight foreskin, the sooner this is slit up or circumcised the better, as the tension caused by the swelling of the part will be relieved, and the sloughing sore will be exposed for the efficient application of suitable remedies. These for- midable-looking cases rapidly get well when so treated. When the foreskin sloughs and the glans penis protrudes through the opening, the prepuce is to be removed. The foreskin when distended with warts, due to gonorrhoea, or with calcareous matter, is to be slit up and the offending bodies removed. At times the warts are unfortunately of a malignant type, this kind being generally met with in persons with long foreskins. The irritation set up in cases of phimosis by the retained smegma prseputii, or by the passage of urine, may cause a number of reflex symptoms, and may induce the patient to masturbate. The difficulty in passing water pro- duces irritability of the bladder, frequent micturition, a tendency to rupture, prolapsus of the rectum from straining, and all the symptoms of stone in the bladder. In some cases there is incontinence of urine, attended with heematuria. Dr. Sayre has published some cases of curvature of the spine in children, suffering from priapism due to adherent foreskin. Professor Erichsen has seen, in children, general spasmodic affections resembling chorea, and resulting from congenital phimosis ; and has attributed to the same cause, in adults, an improper retention of semen during sexual intercourse. A phimosis will render the treatment of gonorrhoea or chancroids tedious and unsatisfactory. Treatment of Phimosis.—Dilatation of the foreskin has been effected by means of tents of compressed sponge or of laminaria digitata. M. Nekton1 advocated the treatment of phimosis by forcible dilatation with instruments, and the same plan has also received the advocacy of Cruise, of Dublin.2 After its forcible dilatation, the prepuce is drawn back behind the glans penis and retained there. The mucous membrane only, of the foreskin, has been divided with a pair of scissors. The sharp-pointed blade, the upper, is to be thrust into the cellular tissue between the mucous membrane and the skin, and the lower or blunt-pointed one, between the mucous membrane and the glans. M. Faure arrives at the same result by drawing the foreskin forcibly back towards the base of the penis, and making a succession of nicks in the mucous membrane until the glans is quite uncovered. The plan of dividing the mucous mem- brane only, is not, in my judgment, to be recommended. A slitting-U'p operation is most applicable to cases of atrophic phimosis; 1 Gaz. des Hop., 1868. 2 Dublin Quart. Journ. of Med. Sci., vol. xviii. p. 482.