INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE BLADDER AND PROSTATE. 354 4 Lancet, Oct. 1, 1881. suggestion made to him—that his vesical irritability was due to a sacculation in which urine lodged, and which we had accidentally discovered. He was immediately relieved, and remained so for forty-eight hours, when the feeling of irritability returned. Hav- ing had some experience in catheterizing himself, he again passed the same instrument, and, having drawn off some water, he began cautiously to feel about his bladder, with the same result as before. The patient came to the same conclusion that I had, namely, that he had a sacculated bladder, and, being an ingenious man, he devised a stylet by which he could readily pass his catheter into the secondary receptable. When I saw him last, he informed me that, by in this way passing an instrument for himself, from time to time, he had been completely cured of his irritable bladder; and he believed that the sacculation had almost, if not entirely, disappeared. As bearing upon the difficulty of recognizing sacculi, I will quote the following remarks from an eminent authority:— It will naturally be asked, How can this state of sacculation of the bladder, with or without stone, be diagnosed during life? It must, I fear, be admitted that the indica- tions are few and unreliable. By noting that a man, having an enlarged prostate, makes water slowly and with considerable exertion ; that when a catheter is used, and after the bladder has been apparently emptied, there is a still further How ; and particularly if the appearance of the urine during the double flow vary considerably, we may infer that cysts or sacculi do exist, although we cannot surely know it.1 Careful examination of the region of the bladder may sometimes tend to the detection of sacculation. Examination of the supra-pubic region with the hand should also not be omitted. I was reminded of the importance of this on looking through the specimens in the Museum of the New York Hospital. Appended to one (784), where there was a sac larger than a hen’s egg, opening into the bladder near the fundus, and in which there were several calculi, was the note, “These calculi could not be detected by the sound during life, but the pouch containing them could be felt through the abdominal parietes.” As an illustration of the enormous dimensions to which a sacculus may attain, reference may be made to the case reported by Hr. Murchison,2 in which a large abdominal tumor was thus produced. The nature of the tumor was determined by puncture. In another case, recorded by Dr. Warren,3 such a sacculus had assumed many of the characteristics of a con- siderable ascites. Amongst the consequences which may arise from sacculation of the bladder involving its posterior wall, suppuration of the sacculus must not be overlooked. This probably results from its containing decomposed urine, which, owing to some sudden change in position of the parts, cannot find exit into the general cavity of the viscus, and consequently sets up suppu- ration. An abscess has been thus formed which opened into the rectum, and in this way a communication between the bladder and rectum has been established. It is probable that this was the course of events in a case of recto-vesical fistula with fecal calculus, in a man, reported by Dr. W. B. Williams.4 Pelvic cellulitis has also been similarly provoked. Treatment.—Beyond the removal of any cause, such as a stone or other impediment to micturition, which may have favored the production of saccu- lation, there is but little that can be done in the way of treatment for this affection. Care must be taken that the bladder is kept regularly emptied, as far as it is possible to do so, and its cavity must be cleansed by injection if necessary. 1 W. Cadge, Sacculation and Stone in the Bladder. Brit. Med. Journal, October 2, 1875. 2 Trans. Path. Soc. Lond., vol. xiv. 3 American Medical Times, N. S. vol. iv.