288 URINARY CALCULUS. the description by Villeneuve1 of what he calls the Petersen-Guyon-Perier operation. I shall borrow his description. The peculiarities of this method consist essentially in the employment of antiseptic precautions, distention of the bladder and rectum to protect the peritoneum, and vesical drainage to prevent infiltration, septicaemia, and other complications due to the faulty position of the wound; for, say what one will, the position of the wound in the high operation is a faulty one, surgically speaking. It has been held that if the exact nature, relation, and position of the parts with the course of the bloodvessels, etc., were explained to an intelligent per- son who had never heard of stoue in the bladder, and this person were asked what would be the best way to get the stone out, he certainly, directed by common sense, would choose the shorter and more direct route, and would try to get at the stone by cutting above the pubis. This may be true in one sense, but the answer is equally logical. If the same nature, relation, and position of parts were explained to a modern sur- geon, wTell versed in surgical principles, and he were required to decide by induction by what route it would be most appropriate, surgically, to extract a stone from the bladder, he would certainly choose the perineal route, not- withstanding the thickness of the tissues, since natural drainage could be best accomplished by this means. The operation of Ferdinand Petersen is the one now generally imitated, since that surgeon’s able article upon the scientific principles of the method first appeared.2 But none of these principles, as enunciated by Petersen, are original with him, strictly speaking, although to him belongs the credit of having grouped them into an effective whole. Asepsis in surgery had long been acknowledged as desirable wherever it could be applied. The vesical suture dates back to Posset, in 1581, and Perier claims for France the introduction of rectal distention by a tampon as a step in the operation, saying that Milliot announced the conception of the same method in 1875, five years before Petersen, in the Medical Con- gress at Lyons. Milliot3 proposed- to distend the rectal tampon with air. Perier first performed the Petersen operation (somewhat modified) in France, Gosselin4 reporting his first two cases, one of which ended fatally. Perier5 has advocated a special form of drainage which Guyon6 has perfected. The vesical suture is not uniformly accepted in Germany, nor generally in France. E. Bouley,7 in his excellent monograph, collecting the cases of vesical suture from 1859 to 1881, has made a tabulated study of 23 such cases, among which failure occurred 10 times. He gives the following table:— Catgut . # . . used 11 times, failed 7 times. Carbolized silk # # “ 8 “ “ 3 “ Ordinary thread # # . “ 2 “ “ 0 “ Metallic suture • • . “ 2 “ “ 0 “ Total • • . 23 10 And in a general way he decides against the employment of sutures. That the bladder may be sutured successfully is certain. Such cases have been reported by Lister, Ultzman, and others, but the tissues are very friable. 1 Rev. de Cliirurgie, t. iii., Sept. 1883, p. 665. 2 Ueber Sectio Alta, Langenbeck’s Aroliiv, S. 752. 1880. 3 Methode operatoire par le ballonnement. Gaz. Med. de Paris, p. 422. 1875. 4 Bull, de 1’Acad. de Med., 2me ser., t. x. p. 1128. 1881. 5 Bull, et Mem. de la Soc. de Chir., t. viii. p. 807. 6 Ann. des Mai. des Organes Genito-Urinaires, Dec. 1882, et Janv. 1883. 7 De la taille liypogastrique. Paris, 1883.