INJURIES AND DISEASES OF TIIE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. 610 Treatment of Orchitis.—The patient is to be sent to bed, and the scrotum and testicles well supported by broad pieces of strapping, which stretch from thigh to thigh, and pass under the scrotum ; or the same end may be effected by means of a crutch-pad placed between the thighs, well up to the peri- neum, under the scrotum ; or by the support afforded by a liorseshoe-shaped tray, made of gutta-percha or stiff cardboard, placed under the scrotum. In some instances the swelling will subside under the application of lead and evaporating lotions combined. If the inflammation be severe, relief will be undoubtedly afforded by the application of half a dozen leeches to the cord, or by section of several of the scrotal veins, after the patient has stood up and fomented the part; the bleeding is to be encouraged by fomentations. The inflammatory attack may be cut short at its commencement by the applica- tion of ice in India-rubber bags, or by means of iced water passing through a metal coil. In some cases, instead of giving immediate relief and cutting short the attack, the application of cold fails, and then it is advisable to apply sedative fomentations. The local applications recommended for use in cases of orchitis are very numerous. Dr. Besnier, in addition to the usual treatment, keeps the part constantly enveloped in cloths saturated with a concentrated infusion of digi- talis leaves, which may be used hot or cold, according to the feelings of the patient. A lotion of tincture of arnica (one part to six) may be applied, or a liniment composed of equal parts of tincture of arnica and soap liniment may be rubbed along the cord. Lead and evaporating lotions give ease in some cases, and the constant application of sulphuric ether, as recommended by Dr. Assadorian, will be found valuable. Some surgeons paint the part with a tincture of iodine (3.j to fSj sp. vini reet.); others prefer to use a strong solution of nitrate of silver (gr. xx-xxx to Ojj. M. Bonnafont reports remarkable results from painting the part with collodion, but other observers do not speak by any means so highly of the remedy, as it causes smarting pain. An ointment of iodoform, one part to ten of vaseline, has been used. Belladonna oint- ment, or the extract of belladonna with glycerine, is a most useful application. Mercurial ointment, made with the oleate of mercury, or iodine ointment, will in indolent cases expedite the cure. Pressure by means of stimulating plasters, instead of by the ordinary strapping, is sometimes desirable. In some chronic cases the continuous galvanic current may be tried, as recom- mended by M. Terrillon, For internal use we have in tartar emetic a powerful drug, and I have invariably found the following mixture efficacious when taken every four hours: R—•Vini antimonialis, f 3ss; Tinct. hyoscyami, f3j ; Magn. carb. gr. x ; Magn. sulpli. 5j; Aq. menth. pip. flj. M. If there be much restlessness, Dover’s powder and calomel may be given. Seven-drop doses of tincture of arnica, with two-and-a-half-drop doses of Fleming’s tincture of aconite, will be found of service when there is fever. Bromide of potassium and tincture of hyoscyamus in large doses, give relief in some cases; the latter ever since' its strong recommendation by Mr. Gay, in 1844, has been constantly prescribed. Other sedatives when given in full doses, are very efficacious—-such as morphine (gr. ^ to J), lupulin, and camphor. Salicylate of sodium is the latest remedy proposed. If suppuration be suspected owing to the symptoms of tension, as shown by a quick pulse, high temperature, shivering, swelling, and great tenderness, the part should be well fomented, and an early puncture made into the gland. In a case of epididymitis from gonorrhoea, injections and specific medicines should be stopped. When the acute symptoms have subsided, the testicles should be kept well supported in a handkerchief or a suspensory bandage, and strapping