AMPUTATION OF THE CERVIX UTERI. 737 meat of stitches a useless complication. Ilegar advises the introduction of sutures in a radiating manner, so that all the circumference of the vaginal mucous membrane may he united to that of the cervical canal. The pecu- liarities of Hegar’s method may be seen from the subjoined illustrations. (Figs. 1413, 1414.) Fig. 1413. Fig. 1414. Amputation of cervix uteri by Hegar’s method. Hegar says that, this suture gives excellent results when the tissues have a normal consistence, even in cases where the section of the cervix is flat and not excavated; but that if the walls of the neck are hard and rigid, it is scarcely possibly to depress the wound so as to obtain exact apposition of its borders. Second Method.—The same preliminary steps as in the previous method having been adopted, the cervix is divided bilaterally, by means of straight scissors, to the point at which it is to be amputated, and then the anterior and posterior lips are successively removed. This method was that employed by Sims. A. R. Simpson has improved it by introducing wire sutures be- fore the removal of the lips; three sutures pass antero-posteriorly through the cervical canal, just above the point of amputation, and then, after the operation, the loop of each is drawn down and divided, thus making the three into six sutures, which, when twisted, unite the mucous membrane of the canal with that of the external cervix ; in addition, two or three sutures are introduced on each side. This method secures prompt hsemostasis. The sutures in all cases are removed in about ten days. Marckwald’s Method.—The same bilateral division of the cervix is employed as in the last-described operation, and then a wedge-shaped piece is excised from each lip, the free border of which forms the base of the wedge. There are thus made two flaps for each lip, and these are then united by" sutures. Conoid Amputation, or the Operation of Huguier.—This operation has been done for hypertrophy of the supra-vaginal cervix, but is now rarely resorted to, some authorities indeed asserting that it ought not to-be employed in any case. The patient occupies the dorso-sacral position, and the operator intro- duces his left index finger into the rectum, and flexes it forwards, so as to indicate the lower attachment of the cervix to the rectum, and to avoid wounding the peritoneum. A semilunar incision, concave antero-superiorly, is then made at the level of the insertion of the vagina in the cervix, and by subsequent incision the tissues are divided obliquely, thus receding from the peritoneum, until the cervical canal is reached, and section of the posterior half of the cylinder is accomplished. Next the anterior half is similarly vol. vi.—47