712 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE FEMALE GENITALS. tubercle is in most cases first observed, at or near the edge of the labium, and, without being the seat of positive pain, is generally a source of annoyance from the itching and smarting which it occasions (West). West thinks that the disease may remain in this condition for several months, or even longer, before ulceration of the tubercle, followed by extension of the disease, occurs. After ulceration has begun, a fatal result may be expected within two years. Prognosis and Treatment.—The prognosis after extirpation of the disease is favorable, if the neighboring lymphatics are not involved. Kustner1 advises the removal of the diseased tissue by incising the skin outside of the swelling, then making a deep incision, and completing the extirpation from the inner side; the amount of hemorrhage need not create alarm, as the field of operation is superficial, and every artery can be easily ligated. He urges the removal of the lymphatic glands on the diseased side if they are larger than those on the sound side. This removal is to be done with a blunt instrument, to guard against injury to bloodvessels, and against the danger of inoculation. Conner regards the galvano-caustic as preferable to the knife in most cases ; if the tumor has a broad base, union by first intention is not to be expected, and the galvano-cautery protects against septic infection. When removal is not possible, the treatment is limited to the use of narcotics and of disinfectants, and to the local application of a solu- tion of muriate of cocaine. Vaginal Tumors. Cystic Tumors.—Vaginal cysts are more frequent than has generally been supposed. They have been found2 in 6 out of 36 cadavers examined for them. In many instances they are not recognized, because usually, unless large, they cause no inconvenience, and small ones are discovered only by acci- dent ; Graefe3 says that the small ones are only accidentally discovered, and that the large ones are mistaken for incurable prolapse. They are found more frequently in adults than in the young, although Winckel and Breisky4 * have seen them in a new-born child, the tumor being of the size of a hazel-nut, and protruding from the hymeneal opening. Of 61 examples6 of vaginal cyst, 29 belonged to the anterior wall of the vagina and 21 to the posterior, while only 11 were found in the lateral walls. They are found with equal frequency in the upper, middle, and lower thirds of the vagina; in this regard these formations have no place of predilection. The size of vaginal cysts varies from that of a millet-seed to that of a hen’s or a goose’s egg; in some instances they are much larger than even the last, as in a case reported by hToyes,6 in which a cyst of the anterior wall of the vagina, which had been growing for sixteen years, was the size of the two fists, or in that of Veit,7 in which it was as large as a child’s head. The tumor is usually single, but Kaltenbach8 removed a large multiple cyst from the posterior wall of the vagina, and Channing met with a bilobed cyst in a pregnant woman twenty-four years old. The cyst-wall varies in thickness from one millimetre to one centimetre; it is usually formed of connective tissue, but if it is thick, smooth muscu- lar fibres also enter into its structure; in most cases it has an epithelial lining, 1 Zeitselirift fur Geburtshiilfe und Gynakologie, 1882. 2 Von Preuschen, Real-Encyklopadie der gesammten Heilkunde. 3 Zeitschrift fur Geburtshiilfe und Gynakologie. Band vii. Heft 2. * Billroth’s Handbuch der Frauenkrankheiten. 5 Graefe, loc. cit. 6 Boston Medical and Surgical Journal, 1861. 7 Zeitsclir. f. Geburtshiilfe u. s. w. 8 Archiv f. Gynakologie, 1873.