1105 CONSTRUCTION AND ORGANIZATION OF HOSPITALS. is entirely open, so that the three rooms open to the outer air. The walls are entirely lined with glazed brick, and the floors are of oak blocks laid in asphalt and concrete. The entering fresh air is warmed in its passage around the grate in the fireplace. This building is designed for paying patients. Fig. 1520. London Fever Hospital. The arrangements of the laboratory, water-closet, and bath-room have been described. All other service-rooms, as well as these, should be well lighted. The nurse should have a cheerful, sunny room, if she must live in the ward building. For economy alone, to say nothing of good health and better service, a separate home for nurses is an advantage, as is shown by the expe- rience of hospitals which have made such wise provision. The fittings of the dining-room and scullery should be simple in construc- tion, the shelving for crockery should be open, and all the plumbing should be exposed, with no inclosed spaces under the sinks, etc. There should be a gas-stove, means for keeping food warm, and a small refrigerator; a broom- closet is essential. The medicine-opening from the hall, by having glass in its door, exposing its contents, will be more tidily kept, and should be sup- plied with hot and cold water, a bowl and marble slab. The rooms for linen and patients’ clothing, should have no drawers; but shelves of wooden slats, and narrow, shallow stalls along the wall, equal to the number of beds in the ward, will be found cleanly and convenient. Size of Hospital and Arrangement of Wards and Accessory Buildings.— A hospital of a private character built by a benevolent association, or by an individual, will have its size determined by the amount of the fund provided, or which is likely to be available from any source of future support. Muni- cipal and other public hospitals are usually built in part at first, and addi- tions are made according to the increase of the population to be served. The character of the poor differs so much in different cities as to being self-sup- porting and in so many other ways, and the provision of hospital accommo- dation for the sick is so various in kind and amount, that there are no reliable data for determining the correct proportion of beds in general hos- pitals, required for a given population. In 1867, Dr. Oppert estimated that there should be four beds for every 1000 inhabitants of London. This is VOL. vi.—70