1177 HISTORY OF SURGERY. satisfying himself that it was a practicable operation, he had made an experi- ment on a goat, cutting an opening through the tracheal rings, and found that the wound was readily healed. Avenzoliar was called “The Experimenter.” The most interesting observations recorded by this author relate to artificial methods of alimentation in cases of inability to swallow food. He proposes three modes. The first is to introduce an oesophageal tube, made of silver or of tin, as far down as it will readily pass, and through this pipe to pass milk or other thin nourishment into the stomach. This method—The imme- diate forerunner of the stomach-tube—is not previously mentioned by any author. The second expedient is the use of nutritious baths, such as those of milk, etc., this mode of feeding depending on cutaneous absorption, of which he had a poor opinion. The third mode, that of rectal alimentation, of which so much is said at the present time, he regarded as of extreme utility, although the almost unquestionable authority of Galen was against it. Oribasius1 wrote an entire chapter on clysters. Avenzohar recommends the use of the trephine in cases of fracture of the cranium, with depression. He laments that in his time it was difficult to find a surgeon capable of performing the operation. Averroes gives the same testimony. It is evident that the Arabian surgeons of mediaeval times were timid operators. The first attempt to diminish the size of a calculus impacted in the urethra is described in the works of Avenzohar.2 After having given directions for extracting a calculus from the urethra, he proceeds to teach the manner of breaking, or, as is most probable, of grinding it down, by an instrument which would appear to be a sort of drill, which he describes as “a thin polished rod, made of gold or silver, and having a pointed adamant enchased in its ex- tremity.” This is the earliest progenitor of the lithotrite, and marks the begin- ning of lithotrity. In treating of the best means of relief for persons suffer- ing from the presence of stone in the bladder, he expresses his utter disgust at the operation of lithotomy, as being opposed to the principles of his religion, which forbids the scrutiny of a part of the body too unclean to be seen with the pure eyes of the faithful. He styles the operation filthy and abominable, and unfit for any man of character to perform. His fastidious- ness does not, however, prevent him from describing this and other opera- tions upon the genitals. Averroes of Cordova (1126-1198), another Spanish-Arabian physician, the famous commentator on the philosophical works of Aristotle, the founder of a system, “ Averroist Aristotelianism,” the eminent jurist, the honored governor, the debased philosopher, the “impious and thrice-accursed Aver- roes,” flourished from the middle to the latter part of the twelfth century. He wrote treatises on the healing art which are still extant, but, properly, he has no place in the history of surgery. Here endeth what space will admit of being said concerning the Arabians. The influence of their medical and surgical writings continued to be felt during several succeeding ages, even as recently as the seventeenth century. Their works appeared in numerous editions soon after the art of printing was invented. The medical schools of all Europe stamped them with authority and employed them as text-books; their professors translated, annotated, in- terpreted, and illustrated them; and all the students of our art waded dili- gently through these ponderous black-letter folios, and drank deeply from these fountains of knowledge and wisdom. The “ School of Salernum” deserves a passing notice in the history of sur- gery. Historians are at variance as to the time of its foundation as a medi- Collect., lib. viii. cap. 34. 2 Theisir, lib. ii., tract. 4, cap. i.