HYPERTROPHY AND ATROPHY OF THE BLADDER. 351 been thrown oft" and has caused retention, or, in the female, has been extruded through the urethra. In some instances of this nature the mucous membrane appears to have been dissected off by ulceration from its subjacent coat; whilst in others this effect has been the result, not of molecular death, but of the conversion of the entire membrane into a slough, by reason of the vio- lence of the preceding inflammation. Perforating TJlcers.—Some remarkable instances of perforating ulcer of the bladder have been recorded, where, apparently, there were no indications of the presence of the affection previous to the setting in of fatal symptoms. To this category belongs the interesting case recorded by Mr. Bartleet, of Birmingham,1 where the ulceration made its way into the ileum, and caused death, as it were accidentally, by setting up peritonitis. The ulcer, whilst confined to the bladder, as Mr. Bartleet remarks, appears to have gone through all its stages without presenting any symptoms, the patient con- tinuing to follow his accustomed occupation. A sudden lifting movement, which occasioned acute pain, probably broke down a recent adhesion between the bladder and the bowel, leading to extravasation of urine into the perito- neal cavity, and thus ultimately causing death. The possibility of rupture of the bladder from muscular contraction being preceded by ulceration, the symptoms of which have been in abeyance, must not be forgotten. Dr. Pad- ley2 has recorded a case in which extravasation of urine into the abdominal areolar tissue, followed by cellulitis and sloughing, was probably preceded by ulceration of the bladder. This patient had previously been under treatment for a perforating ulcer of the soft palate. Communications between the blad- der and intestines appear, in some cases, to have existed for considerable peri- ods of time, and to have led to formation of stone within the former. In the early days of lithotrity, Mr. Charles Hawkins3 recorded a successful case of this kind. As the intestines are more prone to ulceration than the bladder, it is probable that, as a rule, the latter becomes only secondarily involved. Symptoms.—The symptoms of ulcerated bladder do not differ essentially from those of cystitis. The urine is frequently tinged with blood, and con- tains fragments of disorganized mucous membrane. Such patients are often sounded, on the suspicion that a stone may be present, with the result of con- siderably aggravating all their symptoms. Treatment.—The simpler forms of ulceration hardly require any special treatment. Where there is reason to believe that this condition exists, every care should be taken to prevent over-distension, and to avoid the unnecessary introduction of instruments into the bladder. Hypertrophy and Atrophy of the Bladder. Hypertrophy of the bladder may be regarded as a natural consequence of obstructed micturition. As in the circulatory system, the heart, by an increase of its bulk, adapts itself to meet any obstacle which may be placed in front of it, so in the urinary apparatus does the bladder, by proportionate development, make provision for any additional resistance which it has to overcome. With reference to uniform hypertrophy of the bladder, there is comparative- ly little to be said. There are, however, extreme variations in the relations existing between the amount of hypertrophy and the capacity of the viscus, a circumstance which has caused some authors to speak of concentric and excen- tric hypertrophy, as indicating that in the one the increased development of 1 Lancet, February 5, 1876. 3 Medieo-Chirurgical Transactions, vol. xli. 2 Lancet, March 4, 1882.