MODES OF EXPLORATION. 6G5 thirty to forty-five degrees. In the latter position, commonly known as the knee-chest or genu-thoracic, the pelvis is much higher than the chest, and intra-abdominal pressure is quite absent, so that it is impossible to evacuate the bladder, though quite full of urine, with a catheter. When the body rests upon the knees and elbows, the position is known as the genu-brachial. The lcnee-cliest1 position is often of value in facilitating the reduction of posterior displacements of the womb, in setting free this organ in case it has been wedged in the pelvis by a tumor, and in making accessible tumors situated in the back part of the abdominal cavity. In the lateral position the patient lies upon one or the other side, the trunk resting upon the corresponding iliac crest and the shoulder, while a single pillow is placed under the head ; if at the same time the thighs are strongly flexed, and the hips brought to the edge of the table or bed, the vulva is brought into view. This position is uncomfortable, and hard for the patient to keep, and is seldom used, except in abdominal palpation and percussion, in determining the mobility of tumors, and in making, by the changing area of dulness and resonance, a diagnosis between, for example, a cystic tumor and ascites; the patient lies alternately upon one and the other side, in such examination. The semiprone, latero-abdominal, or Sims position, is that in which the Sims speculum is most frequently used. The patient may lie upon the right or upon the left side—the latter was preferred by Sims, because an assistant could then hold the speculum with the right hand—the lower arm is placed behind the back so that the upper shoulder is inclined to the table, the thighs and legs are each bent at nearly a right angle, the flexion of the upper being a little more than that of the under thigh so that the corresponding knee rests upon the table. This position in its effects approximates that of the genu-pectoral, and thus the abdominal pressure is very much diminished, becoming less than atmospheric pressure. While this position is by many regarded as superior to any other when the univalve speculum-is used, and is important in many operations upon the vagina and the neck of the womb, it is not advisable for the purpose of digital examination. In all these different positions—abdominal, dorsal, and lateral, and their modifications—it is important that the patient’s clothing should be loose, and especially that there should be no constriction of the waist. In all examina- tions and operations careful antiseptic precautions must be used—hands and instruments must alike be aseptic. Further, the surgeon must be upon his guard against the possibility of becoming infected with syphilis in his professional work; the dire poison may lurk where least suspected, and a slight abrasion, a recent scratch upon his finger, for example, may be an avenue for its entrance. Vaginal Touch.—Reference has already been made to vaginal touch when the subject is standing. Usually, however, it is done when she is lying, and the position most commonly selected is the dorsal. A single finger, generally the index, is used; the reasons for using only one finger are the facility of introduction—a consideration of some moment if the patient is a virgin—the greater range of movement, and the clearer sensation thus obtained. As to whether the right or left index shall be selected, this will depend, if the patient be in bed, upon the side of the bed which can be approached ; if, as is frequently the case, the external touch, or abdominal palpation, is to be used also, most prefer the left index finger for the internal 1 Hegar und Kaltenbach, Die operative Gynakologie, u. s. w.