APPENDIX. 1104 according to a plan by Dr. Billings, forms an interesting feature of the Johns Hopkins Hospital. Two or more isolating wards, at least one for each sex, are essential for every hospital. They should never he of more than one story. They should be divided into single rooms, and should have abundant air-supply and ven- tilation, and facilities for the practical isolation of each patient if necessary. Such a building was erected in 1874, at the Massachusetts General Hospital, called the Bigelow Ward; a plan of it is shown in Fig. 1519. It has done Fig. 1519. excellent service, and has formed the model of a more elaborate and expen- sive building of the Johns Hopkins Hospital for the same purpose. The building is of brick, with double walls, 20 feet high on the outside. It is di- vided longitudinally by a hall 8 feet wide and 24 feet high, covered by a monitor roof, with windows opening inwards, and warmed by fresh air passing over steam radiators under the floor ; the ends of this hall are chiefly of glass. The rooms, 8 by 12 feet each, are only 13^ feet high, and thus the high and airy hall bears to them the relation of the outer air. Fresh air is introduced into each room at the rate of 8000 feet per hour, and there are ventilating outlets at the top and bottom of the room, besides through the corner fireplace. The cost of the building was $27,000. For the treatment of certain cases of infectious disease, small and cheap wooden liuts are very useful. The chief requirements are that they shall be raised above the ground, shall be ventilated through the ridge-pole, and shall contain within themselves everything necessary—a small kitchen, nurses’room, Avater-closet, etc. An excellent cottage of this kind, 20 feet square, for two patients, was planned by Dr. Wylie for the Presbyterian Hospital, in Hew York, and is described in the Handbook for Hospitals published by the State Charities’ Aid Association of that State. More permanent and properly constructed pavilions, strictly isolated, for small numbers of such cases, have been used successfully as adjuncts of large hospitals; and in case of epidemics, and for regular summer use for surgical and other patients, while permanent wards are being renovated, as is the custom at the Boston City Hospital, tents are of undoubted value. At the London Fever Hospital, a small isolation-building of interesting character, planned by Mr. Keith D. Young, has recently been built. A ground plan of this building is shown in Fig. 1520, with the courteous permission of the architect, of whose written description a brief abstract is given. It is raised upon arches 3^ feet above the ground, which is excavated 4\ feet and covered with concrete, giving a clear way through, under the building. The^orridor