129 HEMORRHOIDS. bleed much, but, if pricked, the contained blood may be either venous or arterial. This form is commonly found in women who have borne children, and who have enlargement or retroversion of the uterus; they often occur about the period of change of life. This form may be called the “passive” kind, and is frequent among spirit drinkers. I never hesitate to operate on these cases, but I observe certain precautions before doing so; if the liver is in fault, I prescribe careful living and a course of Carlsbad waters, together with shampooing and the cold douche. In women, any uterine complication should be attended to. In men, after the operation, extreme moderation of living should be enforced, the bowels should be kept acting regularly, daily, and stimulants should be interdicted. Some- times venous hemorrhage occurs a week or ten days after the operation, from the surface of the unhealed wounds; if it be not extensive, it should not be interfered with. The ordinary symptoms of internal hemorrhoids are bleeding at stool, which may continue for some little time afterwards ; constipation ; a feeling of discomfort and heaviness about the anus and lower part of the rectum ; and, lastly, protrusion of the hemorrhoids through the anus. The bleeding is usually the first symptom which attracts the patient’s attention to the fact that there is something wrong with his rectum, and its amount and character vary considerably. At first usually slight, it may soon become so severe as to blanch the patient, causing one to hesitate about operating, and making it desirable, if possible, to improve the patient’s condition by the enforcement of rest, and by the use of tonics and astringent injections, iron and ergotine being especially useful. Should, however, the hemorrhage not cease very soon, the only thing to do is to operate at once, being most careful while operating to avoid any needless loss of blood. In these cases of great blanching the blood is quite watery, will not clot, and runs out freely from the slightest prick; the operation must therefore be executed very rapidly. I often ligate four hemorrhoids in less than one minute; and in such severe cases the ligature is, in my opinion, the only method that can be safely adopted. Some few months back I was present when, in one of these formidable cases, an operator, contrary to my advice, attempted to remove the piles by the clamp and cautery. The result was that the patient nearly lost his life. I was able to temporarily stop the bleeding by pressure on the abdominal aorta, while ligatures were put on around all the diseased mass; a moderate estimate of the amount of blood lost was three quarts. The character of the bleeding may be arterial, venous, or mixed. The older the hemorrhoids, as a rule, the more venous is the hemorrhage, but, on the other hand, when they have reached a very advanced stage hemorrhoids frequently do not bleed at all, but exude a sero-mucous fluid. Even from the first, a patient with internal hemorrhoids may never have lost a drop of blood, or, what is more probable, may not be conscious of ever having done so. The feeling of discomfort and heaviness in the rectum hardly ever amounts to pain. If there is pain, there is probably inflammation or an ulcer. When the hemorrhoids come down, and are compressed by the sphincters, there will of course be pain, which is relieved by the patient’s returning them into the bowel. This protrusion is what annoys the patient most, and urges him to undergo an operation. At first the piles come down during stool, but return spontaneously ; afterwards, the patient has to return them by pressure; and lastly, although returned, they will not remain in place if the least exertion be made. Constipation, which usually precedes the advent of hemorrhoids, is nearly always rendered much more obstinate through the mechanical obstruction which they afford to the free evacuation of the bowels; yet patients will tell VOL. vi.—9