931 SCROFULO-TUBERCULOUS AFFECTIONS OF BONES. occupy myself first with the ossifluent abscesses, then with the fistulous tracks, and lastly with the bone-lesions. Ossifluent Abscesses.—Small, accessible abscesses should he opened when all hope of resolution has been lost. The course to be pursued in regard to large sessile abscesses, or abscesses by congestion, has varied very much. Formerly these abscesses, the latter especially, were considered a sort of noli me tangere. Antiseptic dressings and methods have completely revo- lutionized surgery in this matter, as in many others. Since Volkmann and Lannelongue have shown that the walls of these abscesses are filled with tuberculous matter, and since antiseptic methods dispel the danger of pyaemia and septicaemia, these abscesses, which were formerly so much feared, have been attacked boldly. Sessile and accessible abscesses may be simply opened with a bistoury, a drainage-tube being placed in the incision, which is then dressed antiseptically, in the manner of Lister. Complete evacuation of the abscess and washing out its cavity with carbolized water, is not, I think, indispensable. Simple incision and drainage have given me good results. Only cicatrization takes a longer time, and the dressing demands much care that no agent of fermentation shall enter the suppurating cavity. When the abscess is easy to reach and not in a dangerous region, when the sac is not deeply buried in the thickness of the limbs, or is not situated in cavities such as the abdomen or the thorax, recourse may be had to a more radical treatment, to scraping out or extirpation of the pocket which contains the collection. (a) Scraping.—A sufficiently large incision having been made, all the tissue in the pocket which looks and feels like mucous membrane is to be removed by the aid of a sharp curette, until the wall of the cavity has been transformed into a bleeding surface. If the diseased point of bone he discovered—and it should be sought for—it will be proper to profit by the laying bare of the abscess to treat it, according to the case, by scraping, if the lesion is superfi- cial ; by rasping, by gouging, by resection, etc., if it is deep, as will be ex- plained hereafter. But let me speak only of the abscess itself. After having washed the bleeding surfaces with carbolized water, or with corrosive-subli- mate, salicylic-acid, or some other such solution, some surgeons close the whole completely with sutures. I think, with M. Lannelongue, that it is more prudent to place a drainage-tube in the most dependent portion of the wound. (ib) Extirpation of the Sac.—M. Lannelongue has proposed decortication of the sac. When the abscess is not too extensive, nor too full of diverticula, it is easy enough to detach its envelope by means of a blunt instrument, closed scissors, a spatula, the finger, etc. Scraping or decortication, the result is the same ; the sac is removed, and its removal leaves behind a bleeding sur- face, less in the second case than in the first. It may be asked, with M. Ver- neuil, if this breaking of the vessels which encircle the region does not set up a most powerful process of auto-inoculation. This danger is perhaps not as great as might he feared ; for, on the one hand, the flow of blood pre- vents the penetration of the tuberculous juices, and, on the other hand, the washings which are made during the scraping carry off, to a certain extent, the debris of the sac. A fortiori is this true of decortication. M. Ollier has proposed scraping with the aid of Esmarch’s haemostatic apparatus, when the region admits of it, in order to avoid the danger pointed out by M. Yerneuil. It will be well, to insure the aseptic condition of the wound and to destroy the tuberculous germs which may remain there after the final washing, to pow- der the surface with iodoform. Internal ossifluent abscesses of the bones of cavities, such as the pelvis, the cranium, etc., require trephining; absolutely for the cranium, less invariably for the pelvis, as this cavity offers numerous