CHOICE OF OPERATION. 211 portion of relapses after lithotomy was 1 in 11. Civiale, in collecting statistics found for lithotomy in Bavaria 1 relapse in 32 cases, in Bohemia 1 in 56, in Dalmatia 1 in 53. At the Luneville Hospital, the registration of 1592 operations showed 13 relapses, 1 in about 123—Civiale1 puts it wrongly 1 in 116—and Civiale’s2 general collection of 4446 lithotomies allows 42 relapses— 1 in about 105f. Against this may he placed the proportion of relapses confessed to have occurred in their own operations (the old one), by the two great lithotritists Thompson and Civiale. The former noted relapse in one of twelve cases, the latter in one of ten. Hence there can be no reasonable doubt that relapse is far more common after old-fashioned lithotrity than after lithotomy, and this conclusion is supported by inductive reasoning. For the causes of relapse after operation are three: (1) a new renal nucleus ; (2) a piece of stone left behind to form a nucleus for the new calculus; (3) damage done by the operation, leaving a catarrhal surface in the bladder which leads to the deposit of secondary (phos- phatic) stone. The first of these causes exists equally under all operative circumstances, but in the second and third cases undoubtedly, if the fault exists in the operation, old-fashioned lithotrity must be more exposed to it than lithotomy. This is not true of modern lithotrity. Phosphatic re-accumulations occur frequently after this operation, but not often because of it. They will be equally frequent whatever is done, if only the causes of secondary stone per- sist (prostatic hypertrophy, vesical atony, chronic cystitis, etc.). But litho- lapaxy offers so many advantages in its mechanical execution for detecting and removing a last fragment, that relapse from a neglected fragment after this operation must he ascribed rather to the operator than to the method. Kirmisson, who in his study of Guyon’s 296 operations by the new method has had the best opportunity of speaking authoritatively, says3 that there have been only 9 cases of relapse noted out of the whole number, and he adds that, if phosphatic re-accumulation be left out of the question, a permanent cure may be always expected. Choice of Operation. Apart from statistics and the question of relapse, a practical consideration of the question of a selection of a method of cure in a given case requires in- vestigation both as to (1) the peculiarities of the patient, and (2) the peculiari- ties of the stone. I. The Peculiarities of the patient, as influencing a choice of operation for the cure of stone, are (1) age ; (2) the state of the general health ; (3) the local condition of the genito-urinary tract. (1) Age.—In the male, before puberty, statistics teach that the cutting ope- ration has heretofore given by far the best results, though litholapaxy is yet on trial. In 1881, two cases were operated on by litholapaxy in Germany:4 Billroth operated once on a boy of six ; some fragments were left, and infil- tration and death followed. Dittel operated on the other case, but failed, and had to resort to lithotomy. Guyon5 was successful once with an infant of four years, upon whom a Ko. 16 (French scale) tube was used, and Keegan6 1 Op. cit., p. 695. 3 Loc. cit., p. 70. 5 Indian Medical Gazette, May, 1884. 2 Ibid. 4 Allg. Wien. med. Zeitung, 29 Nov. 1881. 6 Rev. de Chirnrgie, No. 12, 1882, p. 992.