219 LITHOTRITY. and then perforated by a drill, before it was finally crushed. For the opera- tion at present used, either lithotripsy (grinding a stone) or lithoclasty (break- ing a stone) would be more accurate. Scattered records of various efforts to relieve the bladder of stone without the use of the knife, existed in medical history long before the days of Civiale. The first instance seems to have been that of the monk Theophanes, early in the ninth century. Albucasis, in Arabia, appears to have been acquainted with lithotrity, at least in theory. The monk of Citeaux is usually referred to in this connection, and, finally. Colonel Martine1 with his file, made of the end of a knitting needle, well tempered and set in a piece of whalebone as a handle. With this rude tool, pushed through a straight canula, the colonel was wont to rub his stone away, repeating his sittings sometimes twice a day, and often operating in the presence of witnesses. In this manner he finally entirely relieved his bladder; but nobody has testified to the size of the stone or the weight of the debris. The Bavarian surgeon Gruithuisen2 seems to have conceived the idea of lithotrity in 1809. He published his views in 1813, establishing the possi- bility of catheterization by a straight tube, and proposing to introduce through this tube a variety of instruments to act upon the stone: a lance-shaped drill, with a wire snare to hold the stone in place; a trephine; a crow-bill forceps to crush the debris; a stone cutter, etc., of all of which he gave plates; but there is no evidence to show that these instruments were ever actually con- structed, much less put to the test, even upon the cadaver. In 1818 Civiale, being then a medical student, presented to the medical faculty an essay upon a new lithontripteur, but it was an instrument never used, and apparently not very suitable for the work for which it had been designed. During all this period there seems to have been great activity in the surgical world upon the stone-crushing question. Fournier de Lempdes, in 1812, constructed some special instruments, and tried them on the cadaver at the St. Louis Hospital, in Paris. Elderton, in Scotland, constructed a curved file to be used to wear away a stone. Amussat made some efforts before a commission of the Academy, but his instrument unfortunately broke during the sitting. Leroy d’Etiolles devised an instrument to saw the stone, and Ducamp another, which was tried upon the living subject. Finally, Leroy d’Etiolles perfected a forceps with three branches and a saw {lithoprione), in April, 1823, and in the following January, 1824, Civiale’s litholabe (Fig. 1200), a three-branched forceps with drill, was successfully used upon a living Fig. 1200. fet Civiale’s litholabe. patient. Leroy d’Ftiolles3 confessed that he had obtained the idea of his; lithoprione from a three-bladed forceps (tire-balle) of Alphonse Ferri. Attempts at improvement and modifications of the trilabe now became numerous on all sides. Even Civiale attempted a modification, but no prac- ! Journal of Science and tlie Arts, vol. i. p. 199. 1817. 2 Art. Lithotritie, Diet, de Med. et de Chir. Pratiques, tome xxi. 3 Expose des divers procedes jusqu’a ce jour pour guerir de la pierre, eto. Paris, 1825.