APPENDIX. 1144 sugar, coffee, tea, pork, and from six to ten head of beef-cattle. He makes a daily in- spection of the stores on hand in order to keep up the necessary amount of supplies, so as to be ready at all times for a rapid movement or an engagement. It is also his duty to make out the provision returns, having them agree with the morning report of sick and wounded ; the names of all the hospital attendants to be written on the back of each return. He superintends the purchase of such articles as are not furnished by the government, and which tlie surgeon in charge considers necessary for the use of the sick and wounded. He also keeps an account of the savings of the hospital, and makes a monthly report of the state of the hospital fund to the surgeon in charge. He has, in conjunction with a medical officer, charge of the cooking and preparation of the food, seeing that there is no unnecessary waste, and that the place in which the stores are kept and food prepared is properly policed daily. When orders to move are re- ceived, he attends to the packing of the supplies in the wagons assigned for that pur- pose. He also sees that there is a sufficient number of cooking utensils on hand, and that they are kept clean and in good condition. On the march, lie is required to keep his wagons with the hospital department, or wherever they may be ordered; also to have the beef-cattle up with the wagons, so that, if necessary, they can be slaughtered and prepared for food in the evening, or whenever a halt is ordered. He selects a proper place for cooking purposes, unloads such stores as are required for the. occasion, and, if within reach of the supply train, gets his stock replenished. On the approach of an engagement, it is his duty to have hot coffee, tea, beef-soup, and other necessary articles of diet, ready for the wounded as soon as they may be brought in from the field. When the wounded are being sent to the depot hospital, he furnishes each man with sufficient rations to last him until he reaches his place of destination. When men are returned to duty from the hospital he also furnishes them with rations. Duties of the Chief Ambulance Officer of the Corps.—In addition to the regular monthly returns of quartermaster’s property, the chief ambulance officer of the corps receives and makes the following reports; (1) Daily wagon and forage report; (2) weekly ambulance report; (3) monthly report of transportation; (4) monthly report of officers in quartermaster’s department of the ambulance train and the time to which they have made their property returns; (5) monthly report of all quartermaster’s property received and issued during the month ; (6) monthly report of officers serving in the ambulance train. When not on the march, the chief ambulance officer of the corps inspects the ambulance train every Sunday morning, with the object of correct- ing all abuses and of promoting the efficiency of the train.1 Before a move, he should give timely notice to the division ambulance officers,, so that they may have everything packed up and ready to start at the appointed hour. It is his duty to regulate the order of march of his train, select suitable camping grounds, and see that his train is at all times ready for active service. Before an engagement, he informs himself as well as possible about the country, roads, etc., and sees that his train is well up and together, so that as soon as the lines of battle are established he can park his whole train in some central position from which to send picket ambulances as near the lines of each division as possible. An officer is always placed in charge of the main park of ambulances, one is in charge of the picket ambulance of each division, and the remainder of the officers are instructed to take charge of the stretchers, men, and sergeants. It is also necessary to leave an officer in charge of the hospital train of the corps. The chief ambulance officer must personally superintend the working of Bis train so as to see that every one does his duty, that the drivers do not become stampeded, and that the wounded are transferred to the hospital as quickly and easily as possible. It is also his duty to see that the stretcher-men do not carry the wounded farther than is necessary. When in camp, and it is necessary to send off sick or wounded, the chief ambulance officer orders the proper number of ambulances, and details an officer to take charge of the train; one ambulance officer from eacli division superintends the loading of the ambulances of his division hospital. When in camp, the stretcher-men are used in the hospital when needed. It is also necessary that the chief ambulance officer should see that the ambu- lances are not improperly used. It being desirable to receive orders as early as possible, the chief ambulance officer finds it best to have his quarters at corps head-quarters. 1 He should endeavor to keep his train in as good condition as the best batteries of horse artillery.