URINARY CALCULUS. 260 the lateral operation should be chosen ; (3) for stones at and over one inch in diameter, the lateral operation is suitable, up to stones of one and a half, and even occasionally two inches, the bilateral prostatic and even the bilateral external incision being made in such cases ; (4) for stones at and above one and three-quarters inches in diameter, it is safer, after opening the perineum, to fragment the stone before extraction, this being more imperative in the case of elderly men, and (5) for very large stones, the supra-pubic operation is suitable. Prostatic Incision.—There is more uncertainty about the internal incision in lithotomy than about any other feature of the section. Great varieties in incision into the prostate have been advocated, that which leads backward and outward in the direction of the greatest diameter of the lateral lobe of the gland having received most general approval. The respective merits of cutting and dilating have also been long and ardently discussed. Mathe- matical calculations have been entered upon with great precision to estimate the length of the prostatic incision on each side, and the consequent size of a stone which may be delivered through the opening without passing the limits of the prostate. This formal computation cannot be justified by a calm consideration of the facts. In the first place, the size of the prostate varies greatly at different periods of life. The measurements given consci- entiously by equally good authorities vary for the same period of life. Thus the oblique radius in the adult has been made to vary all the way from ten to twenty-five millimetres. Then, again, the prostate is not a cylindrical body, but terminates in a. thick, rather abrupt, posterior border, while anteriorly it comes to a thin, blunted point. Kow the stone must come out through a cylindrical channel, and the consequence is that, in the case of an}7 stone of large size, the fibrous- sheath of the prostate is necessarily cut through or torn through toward the apex of the gland, and very often posteriorly as well, while the body of the bladder is often involved. Laceration of the soft parts about the neck of the bladder takes place in a radiate direction, following the line of a previous incision. The soft tissues also stretch considerably, but to a varying extent, in different subjects. Hence, the practical conclusion can be but one, that the incision through the neck of the bladder and the prostate should start in the direction of the greatest diameter of the gland ; and that if the stone prove too large to be taken out through such an incision made with reasonable freedom, then a liberating incision must be made on the other side; and that if the stone will not even "then come through after the application of moderate force, fragmen- tation should be resorted to, or even the high operation. If it be decided to make the double prostatic incision, this can perhaps be most accurately done with the double-cutting lithotome cache. But fre- quently it turns out that the operator only determines to make his second cut after he finds that his first is inadequate. lie does not usually reach this conclusion until some instruments have been passed, and the wound has been more or less dilated. Moreover, the natural elasticity of the tissues causes some displacement of the customary relations of the parts; and if, added to this, it is remembered that the second, liberating, lateral incision is made upon the finger as a guide, sometimes with the stone in the bite of the forceps more or less distending the already cut vesical orifice, it can be appreciated that this incision will not fall exactly where it is the intention of the operator to place it unless special care be used. In experimenting upon the cadaver I have been surprised to find how easy it is to make the second incision in the wrong place. It is even possible, after having; made the usual lateral incision and distended the vesical neck, to cut