357 TUMORS OF THE BLADDER. I give this case for what it is worth, merely remarking that I believed it to be one of papilloma. The remarkable effect of hot water in blanching tissues and removing congestion from mucous membranes is now so well recognized, that I may be excused for referring to it in connection with its application to the treatment of these growths. The use of astringents and styptics, by the mouth, or locally by injection, has not given any very reliable results. Gallic and sulphuric acids, acetate of lead, iron, turpentine, ergot, matico, and hamamelis, have all been tried with some degree of success. Of the various means for arresting hemor- rhage and soothing the local irritation which is aroused, I have found the ap- plication of a bag of ice above the pubes, and the use of opium suppositories, of most service. The influence of cold and rest in controlling hemorrhage is well understood, and they are applicable here. My experience of heat, as already detailed, would lead me to try it again, provided that I could bring it in actual contact with the spot from which the hemorrhage proceeded. The injection into the bladder of a weak solution of nitrate of silver (gr. |-fsj), has sometimes proved efficacious. The operative measures which have been resorted to will now be con- sidered. As already pointed out, these growths are not necessarily of a malignant nature, and there is good reason for believing that occasionally they disappear spontaneously, either as a consequence of their accidental self- strangulation, or by sloughing, coincident with an attack of cystitis. Hence, with more perfect means for making a diagnosis, there is no reason why they should not be included with others which are curable by operation. Civiale appears to have attempted their removal by evulsion with the litliotrite, but the results of this somewhat hazardous and indiscriminate mode of pro- cedure do not seem to have encouraged its adoption by other operators. The precision and freedom necessary for the complete removal of these tumors can obviously oidy be obtained by cystotomy and direct exploration of the bladder. To remove a portion of a villous growth is worse than useless. The first complete operation of this kind appears to have been performed by Mr. Crosse, of Norwich, who, like other operators, performed cystotomy under the belief that the bladder might contain a calculus. A mass of poly- poid excrescences was found and removed, but the child died in fortv-eisrht hours. From this date (1835) up to the present a somewhat similar procedure has been adopted in at least ninety-eight cases, as will be seen from the table on page 360. Dr. Gross points outT that, on account of the multiplicity of the tumors, the operation holds out little prospect of relief in children unless it be by supra-pubic incision. In a case recorded by Mr. Howard Marsh,1 both the bladder and vagina of a child of two years were completely filled with polypoid excrescences. We may now proceed to consider in detail the various operations which have been adopted in these cases. The bladder has been opened in the following ways: (1) by median cyst- otomy, (2) by perineal urethrotomy and dilation of the vesical neck, (3) by lateral cystotomy, (4) by median cystotomy, followed by supra-pubic incision, (5) by supra-pubic cystotomy alone, (6) —in the female—by rapid dilatation of the urethra, and (7) by section of the urethra and extension of the incision into the base of the bladder. Lateral cystotomy, as for stone, was the operation practised in Professor Humphry’s case. There is much to be said in favor of the lateral over any median operation. By means of the former, a far more thorough exploration of the bladder can be made with the finger, and, if necessary, additional 1 Trans. Path. Soc. Loud., vol. xxv.