de Chirurgie, t. ii. p. 319. I CONDITIONS WHICH MAY COMPLICATE DISEASES OF THE URETHRA. 511 consisted of a hypertrophy of the connective tissue and of the muscular tissue (fibrous myoma). In diffuse induration the tissues are white and but slightly vascular; they creak under the knife, and sometimes undergo cartilaginous or osseous degeneration. These profound alterations of the soft parts which surround perineo-scrotal fistuhc are of importance, and they explain how fistulous tracks may persist without any tendency to obliteration, even when the calibre of the urethra is entirely re-established, and when the urine flows freely by the natural channel. It is necessary, in such cases, to act directly upon the indurated and callous tracks in order to bring about their cicatrization. Perineo-scrotal urinary fistulie may be complicated by the presence of foreign bodies (fragments of catheters, balls, sequestra), and of calculi. These calculi, to which Louis1 has drawn attention, may be formed slowly by successive deposits of the salts contained in the urine; but the tendency at the present day is to consider them as calculi of the bladder or prostate, caught in the sinuosities of the fistula, outside of which they have had their birth. It will be understood, however, that these calculi may increase little by little in size by the addition of new layers, following the mode of increase of calculi caught in the urethra. In some cases, instead of real calculi, a sort of incrustation is seen, or calcareous infiltration of the walls of the fistula. It is not rare indeed to find this same calcareous incrustation of the portion of the urethra situated behind the internal orifice of the fistula, the incrustation being prolonged as far as the neck of the bladder. Symptomatology and Diagnosis.—The escape of urine during micturition is the characteristic symptom of the fistulte which we are studying. This discharge presents notable differences, in accordance with the degree of permeability of the urethra and the different anatomical conditions of the fistula: sometimes not a single drop flows from the meatus, and the patient urinates exclusively by the fistula; sometimes part of the urine flows by the penis and part by the fistula, and there are a large number of varieties in this respect; sometimes the fistula gives exit to only a few drops which escape at the end of micturition. Finally, there are cases in which, the small quantity of urine which penetrates the fistulous track mixing with the muco- pus secreted by the latter, and escaping outside some time after micturition, it becomes difficult to decide at first whether or not the fistula communicates with the urethra. In such a case, one may be put on the track of the diag- nosis by the urinous odor of the secretion, and recourse may be had to the method proposed by Dieffenbach, and which consists in compressing the glans at the moment of micturition in such a manner as to force the urine to flow back through the fistula. In the intervals of micturition the fistula gives exit to a muco-purulent liquid, the quantity of which is dependent upon the extent and number of the tracks, the presence of diverticula, and the existence of inflammatory complications. The spermatic fluid follows the same course as the urine; sometimes escaping entirely by the fistula, some- times, and oftener, passing partly by the urethra and partly by the abnormal opening. I have already described the appearance of the external opening or openings of the fistula; I shall add that usually the skin of the regions bordering upon this opening is more or less red, inflamed, and excoriated by the contact of urine and pus. As I have pointed out, it is often possible to feel the hard and resistant fibrous cord which starts from the fistula and goes towards the 1 M6moire sur les pierres urinaires formees liors des voies naturelles. Mem. de l’Acad. Roy.