IRRITABLE BLADDER. 869 stages of the enlargement, especially in gouty subjects passing acid urine, the irritation comes on immediately after the bladder has been emptied, and the desire will remain for an hour or so until the urine has collected, and a water-bed is as it were interposed between the muscular pressure of the bladder and the tender or gouty prostate. Then there is an interval of repose until urine is again passed, when the same process, accompanied by similar sensations, is repeated. The irritability of the subsequent stages of prostatic enlargement is somewhat different in its character, being due to the presence of residual urine, with the chronic cystitis which the pathological state of uncleanliness has engendered. The difference has this import: the former is aggravated by catheterization, as usually practised, whilst the latter is remedied by catheterization, combined with irrigation of the bladder; and conversely, sedatives and emollients give relief to the first-mentioned form of irritability, whilst in the latter, when employed alone, they are worse than useless—they are disappointing. Irritability of the bladder in children and adults is a usual symptom of stone, though it varies much both in kind and degree. There is this anomaly in the vesical irritability of stone, which has often struck me: in most other forms of irritability, a patient gives way to the desire to urinate with, at all events, a prospect of temporary relief; whilst in stone, on the contrary, it is with the certainty of having his suffering added to until urine collects sufficiently to take the pressure of the calculus from off the mucous membrane. Stricture of the urethra often occasions vesical irritability, either by provok- ing spasm, or by bringing about structural changes in the bladder, by which its capacity is lessened and its walls are thickened. Irritability due to altered and abnormal states of the urine, is not infre- quent, and will necessitate, where there are symptoms to be cleared up, an examination of this excretion. The urine least irritating to the normal urin- ary passages, is that which most nearly approaches the healthy standard. The low specific gravity of the urine which is passed so frequently and abun- dantly by hysterical females, no doubt causes the irritability from which they, under these circumstances, almost invariably suffer. Water is more irritating to those passages of the body over which it is not intended to flow, than a saline solution of some density. The abundance of uric acid in the urine of the gouty, undoubtedly explains the extreme irritability of the bladder, and the intense irritation and feeling of weight which these persons experience, and refer to the region of the prostate. Gouty manifestations in the parts behind the triangular ligament, are quite as frequent as the more familiar indication of this diathesis which we meet with in an acute form about the ball of the great toe. The benefit which, in these cases, attends the adminis- tration of antipodagric remedies, together with diluents, is most marked. Something similar is seen in individuals who frequently suffer from gouty affections of the skin, such as eczema. Cases are not uncommon of gouty patients who successively suffer from eczema and irritability of the bladder. Neither is present in any marked degree at the same time, and the aggrava- tion of one seems to be the alleviation of the other. There is a form of irritability—for such it certainly is, though manifest- ing itself by morbid actions rather than by morbid sensations—in which the bladder is not under proper control. Reference is made to the nocturnal incontinence of young children ; this may be provoked by any of the causes previously mentioned, which are to be carefully sought for. This state is not to be mistaken for the dribbling or running over from a distended bladder, which, by atrophy of its muscular coat or other similar cause, is prevented from expelling its contents. The incontinence of childhood is a very com- vol. vi.—24