896 INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS OF THE BONES. While it ossifies when it remains in contact with the ^one, it usually remains soft and pliable when the peripheral cylinder of bone has been destroyed by necrosis or artificially removed. The periosteum, on the contrary, isolated from the bone, reproduces bony masses which, in conditions which I have determined experimentally, recall the form and dimensions of the bone removed. Its ossifying properties are dependent upon the conservation of its osteogenic layer, that is to say, of the layer of embryonic cells which exists on its deep surface. This layer is very easy to demonstrate in the bones of young subjects, especially in children; but it disappears in adults and old persons, and becomes apparent in these last only when the periosteum has been previously irritated. Artificial irritation of the periosteum restores to.this membrane, in old animals, the properties of youth. Tor this reason bony new formations are not limited to childhood and adolescence; they may be produced at a later period when the periosteum has undergone a certain degree of irritation, which renews in its cells the properties which they had lost. In necrosis of the whole thickness of a bone, regeneration is dependent upon this osteogenic layer. If it has been destroyed by the violence of the in- flammation, as happens in diffuse periostitis which in a few days transforms the periosteal sheath into a purulent sac, in which the whole of the diaphysis is found necrosed, regeneration may fail utterly in spite of the youth of the subject. I have seen, among other cases, a necrosis of the ulna, following a very acute pan-diaphysitis, which was not followed by the formation of the smallest osteophyte, although the child was only four years old. Acute inflammations which begin in the periosteum, often destroy the whole of the osteogenic layer. Inflammations originating in the medulla, which attack the periosteum only secondarily, areofless gravity in this respect. Intense and destructive in the medulla, these inflammations lessen in inten- sity as they traverse the bone-substance, and reach the periosteum so much enfeebled as to provoke only plastic processes. Hence those enormous sub- periosteal bony layers which are provoked by irritating the medulla in animals, and of which clinical observation furnishes frequent examples in children. On this account the seat and point of departure of inflamma- tion have a great influence upon the regeneration of bone. If indirect irritation of the periosteum is usually fruitful, its direct irritation runs a risk of being sterile when it is too intense. Hotliing is more simple, apparently, than the theories of regeneration given by different authors who have wished to apply to surgery the ideas of Duhamel and of Troja. By the action of the periosteum or of the medulla, which, according to these theories, is only an internal periosteum, all is explained. It is sometimes one, sometimes the other of these tissues which does the work. In reality, the question is more complicated ; and when we consider the majority of the sequestra removed by sequestrotomy, we can understand how Brun, Leveille, Scarpa, etc., maintained that the new bone was only the result of hypertrophy of the part remaining. Indeed, in the majority of the sequestra removed, it is seen that they are not made up of the whole thickness of the cylinder of the diaphysis. There generally remains a portion which has continued to live, and which may have played an important part in the reconstruction of the bone. Total necrosis is rare. There generally remain, even in cases in which a superficial examination would lead to the belief that the whole bone had become necrosed, some living portions adherent to the periosteum, which will play an important part in the osseous new formation. When a sequestrum, representing the greater part of the diaphysis of a long bone, is examined attentively, it may be determined, from its shape and