273 LITHOTOMY. to such a depth as the operator may deem prudent. A further liberating inci- sion into the prostate and neck of the bladder may be made upon the patient’s right side, if the operator thinks it necessary. How the operator slides in the closed forceps upon his finger, dilating the neck of the bladder as he does so. Then taking one handle of the forceps in each hand, and gently but widely opening both blades toward the roof of the bladder, he elevates the handles, keeping the blades distended, and upon gently closing them laterally it is not improbable that he will seize the stone. If not, a second attempt is made in the same direction, or, failing again, one blade is depressed into the floor of the bladder by half rotating the instru- ment while the other is widely raised toward the roof. How upon closing the blades the stone is pretty sure to be found within their grasp. If not, other efforts are made in various degrees of rotation of the instrument, per- haps aided by a finger in the rectum to raise the floor of the bladder, and finally the stone is seized. In a case of large prostate, with a bas-fond, the curved forceps should be used, and opened laterally upon the floor of the bladder. The same instrument may successfully seize a stone retained at the roof of the bladder, behind the pubis, in a position which would make it almost inaccessible to the straight forceps. The operator must now assure himself, if the stone is large, that it has been caught in one of its smaller diameters. This he may do by feeling the presenting portion of the stone through the wound as well as through the rectal wall. Extraction is accomplished by traction from side to side and outwards, two- thirds lateral and one-third extractive, not directly outwards, but outwards and downwards in the axis of the inferior strait of the pelvis, easing the soft parts with a finger in the wound, and slipping them over any asperities in the presenting portion of the stone, carefully, slowly, but continuously, until the foreign body is removed. Sometimes the perineum is too deep for the finger. In such a case the crested scoop or blunt gorget may be used as a guide for the forceps. The finger or a searcher should lastly be introduced to explore for any further stone, then attention should be given to hemor- rhage, and finally the bladder should be washed out with warm water. In the child, the operation is much simpler. The urethra has no bulb to be feared before puberty, and for all practical purposes the prostate does not exist. The staff can be plainly felt through the thin tissues of the perineum. The first incision generally touches the instrument, or even enters its groove. In the latter case it should be slid along the groove for a certain distance, so as to make a clean opening into the urethra, which may be immediately encountered by the finger as it enters the wound, as otherwise there would be danger of opening the urethra in two places. The Blizard knife completes the operation, the neck of the bladder and the whole of the prostate being cut through at one incision, which should be relatively quite free, for if the neck of the bladder be not sufficiently incised in the young subject, there is danger, upon introducing the finger for purposes of dilatation, of tearing the mem- branous urethra across, and of pushing the neck of the bladder, undilated, before the finger upwards into the pelvis, an accident greatly to be deplored both on account of the subsequent difficulty of entering the bladder, and particularly on account of the traumatic stricture in the membranous urethra to which the transverse rent gives rise. Small, straight forceps easily extract the stone from a child, and the getting up is generally speedy. After-treatment.—When bleeding has been arrested and the bladder thoroughly washed—a thoroughness the more requisite if the stone has been at all broken or even clipped during extraction—the patient is put to bed, preferably upon a hard hair-mattress upon which has been placed a rubber cloth, and beneath the hips a folded sheet to absorb the urine as it flows VOL. vi.—18