ORTHOPAEDIC SURGERY. 1006 manner as to induce paralysis of certain muscles much more frequently than of others. These two conditions of nerve-lesion and muscular disorganization are the chief causes of non-congenital club-foot; I have made no endeavor to describe the nature of these diseases, as a full discussion of them would be impossible without encroaching on space required for matter with which this article is more directly concerned ; all that has been attempted is to draw attention to these sources of deformity, and further elucidation of the subject must be sought for in the works of authorities on disorders of the nervous system. The order most convenient to follow in describing the varieties of club- foot, will be to take talipes equinus first, and then talipes varus, since the lat- ter deformity is frequently combined with the former; next talipes valgus will follow, and finally talipes calcaneus. The development of one or other of these deformities is of sufficiently common occurrence to make them all of importance to the surgeon ; of the 581 cases of distortion of the foot al- ready referred to, 151 were examples of equinus, 206 of varus, 175 of valgus (including flat-foot), and 49 of calcaneus; as a congenital deformity varus is by far the most common, but as a non-congenital deformity equinus is most frequently met with. Before describing the various forms of club-foot in detail, a few general remarks may be made upon the operation of tenotomy. Section of a tendon should only be employed when contraction of the affected muscle is confirmed, but when this state has become established, tenotomy is the only means by which it can be relieved. The knife should be entered at a little distance from the side of the tendon, and on a level with its superficial surface; it should then be pushed downwards, with its flat side directed towards and touching the tendon, until the deep surface of the latter is reached and the blade is well beyond it; the cutting edge is then turned, and the section of the tendon is made towards the skin. As small a knife as possible should be selected, but the steel must be strong and well-tempered; the shape of the blade is of no particular importance, and the surgeon may consult his own convenience in this respect. When the knife is withdrawn, the puncture is sealed with a pad of lint and a piece of strapping; repair is then carried on without the occurrence of unhealthy inflammation. The process of repair consists in the exudation of lymph between the cut ends of the divided ten- don ; the investigations of Adams1 have clearly shown that it is from this new material alone that the new tendon is formed, and that any blood that may be present is absorbed and does not become organized ; the lymph is chiefly supplied by the connective tissue which forms the sheath of the tendon. The presence of nuclei and nucleated cells is the first step in the organization of the new material; capillary bloodvessels are next formed, and elongation of the nuclei takes place; the lymph soon presents a fibrillated appearance, and in the course of time becomes distinctly fibrous in structure. The new portion becomes fused with the old tendon in such a manner that it is scarcely possible to distinguish between them, the only difference being that the former is somewhat translucent, and of a slightly grayish color. Talipes Equinus.—Talipes equinus is so called because the deformed foot presents some resemblance in shape to the foot of a horse ; the simplest form of distortion occurs as a congenital affection, when from contraction of the extensor muscle of the foot the heel is raised and the toes are pointed down- wards. Congenital equinus is very seldom met with ; but Little and Adams have both recorded cases, so that all doubts, and such have been expressed, 1 On the Reparative Process in Human Tendons. London, 1860.