FOREIGN BODIES IN THE URETHRA. 445 of the instrument has deviated from the middle line, the presence of a false passage may be considered as demonstrated. Treatment.—-An incomplete false passage, made with a delicate instrument,, constitutes an accident which is usually of no consequence, and which requires no special treatment. If, on the contrary, the false passage has resulted from the introduction into the urethra of a large instrument, and if it is com- plete, it becomes necessary to look after the patient with great care. It is necessary then to have recourse immediately to an energetic antiphlogistic treatment (blood-letting, baths, local emollient applications), and to be ready to meet such serious developments as suppuration and infiltration of urine. The best way to prevent these complications consists in the introduction and retention of a catheter which will enable the urine to flow freely, and which will have the additional advantage of distending the canal fully and pressing the walls of the false passage together, so as to favor their cicatrization. But further, it is necessary that the canal shall be free. When, in consequence of the existence of a stricture, catheterization is impossible, two cases may present themselves : either the patient can pass urine, when the treatment is limited to the employment of antiphlogistics while awaiting the healing of the false- passage; or, on the contrary, there is retention of urine, when it is necessary to have recourse to external urethrotomy or to puncture of the bladder. Foreign Bodies in the Urethra. Foreign bodies in the urethra may be arranged in three classes according- as they come from the bladder, as they have been formed in situ, or as they have come from without and have been introduced by the meatus. Foreign Bodies coming from the Bladder.—Foreign bodies which come from the bladder are sometimes concretions which have descended from the kidneys, sometimes the debris of vesical calculi left by an operation of litho- trity. Pathological Anatomy and Physiology.—Calculi which have descended from the kidneys are small, quite regular, rounded or flattened like a bean, or some- times elongated and fusiform like the stone of an olive. Sometimes they are grayish, with a rough surface ; sometimes, and more frequently, they have a rich red color and a perfectly smooth surface. Fragments of vesical calculi are often very large. They are always irregular, and have ridges and points- more or less acute. Their color and consistence vary with those of the calculi from which they are derived. Foreign bodies coming from the bladder may stop at any point in the urethra, but they are usually found at the level of the narrowest portions of this tube (neck of the bulb ; fossa navicularis). If the calculus be small, it is not unusual for it to be expelled with the urine after some moments or some hours, without having produced any serious dis- turbance. In other cases, and under the influence of various causes—such as the size of the foreign body, the irregularities which it presents and which fix it in the urethral mucous membrane, spasm of the canal, the existence of a normal or pathological narrowing, or considerable dilatation of the lacunae of Morgagni—a calculus may be retained in the urethra for months and even for years. It may be easily conceived that so prolonged a stay is accompanied by notable modifications on the part of the canal and on the part of the calculus. In children, in whom the urethra is supple and dilatable, there forms up-stream from the obstacle a veritable pocket, the size of which may equal or exceed that of the fist. Then the calculus is often quite easily displaced, falls into-