INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTION. 78 rectum, right lumbar colotomy is the best procedure, unless in exceptional cases, as, for instance, when there is congenital absence cf the entire rectum and sigmoid flexure, in an infant, under which circumstances Pillore’s method (right inguinal colotomy) may be preferred. Fine’s operation (umbilical colotomy) seems to present no advantage over those of his predecessors. Callisen’s or Amussat’s Operation—it is now generally known by the name of the later writer—consists in opening the colon in the left lumbar region (left lumbar colotomy). The following directions for its performance are based upon those given by Mr. Allingham, which are founded upon the experience derived from more than fifty dissections, and from a very large number of cases in which that surgeon has employed the operation. Ansesthesia having been induced, the patient is fixed in the prone position with a slight inclina- tion towards the right side, a hard pillow being placed under the left side, so as to render the loin tense and prominent. To determine the exact position of the colon, a point on the crest of the ilium, midway between the anterior superior and posterior superior spinous processes, is marked with iodine paint, the colon in the normal condition being always situated half an inch behind the point thus indicated. The surgeon then, standing in front of the patient, makes an incision of at least four inches, midway between the last rib and the crest of the ilium, the centre of the wound corresponding exactly with the point which has been marked. The wound may be transverse, as recommended by Amussat, or, which is better, oblique, downwards and for- wards in the course of the ribs, as advised by Air. Bryant. The various tissues are carefully divided to the full extent of the external wound, until the lumbar fascia and edge of the quad rat us lumborum muscle have been reached; the former being cut through, the colon usually presents itself at once, and may commonly be recognized, even if undistended, by the appear- ance of one of its longitudinal bands. Care must be taken not to open the peritoneum, which is sometimes inflated with gas and in its appearance simu- lates the bowel. The operation is completed by introducing with a curved needle strong silken sutures, by means of which the gut is drawn to the surface, when it is incised in the direction of its long axis to the extent of about an inch ; the margins of the intestinal aperture are then stitched to the edges of the external wound, the sutures being retained until they begin to cut, their way through by ulceration. If the case be not a very urgent one, it may be well, as advised by Costallat, to divide the operation into two stages, and not to open the colon until several days after its exposure. In order to prevent the annoyance and distress which often follow the accumulation of fecal matter in the colon below the opening, Madelung has suggested a modification of the ordinary operation, consisting in cutting the gilt completely across, the upper end being then fixed to the lips of the external incision, while the lower end is carefully closed with sutures and dropped into the wound. Right lumbar colotomy, in which the csecum is opened instead of the sigmoid flexure, is performed in the same way as Amussat’s operation, except that the incision is made in the right instead of in the left loin. In order to determine on which side the colon should be opened, Mr. T. P. Teale recom- mends that a median laparotomy should be first performed as an exploratory measure—an addition to the operation which I confess seems to me quite unjustifiable. Littre’s operation (inguinal colotomy), which is preferred to Amussat’s .by Studsgaard, Reeves, Verneuil, Reclus, and some other surgeons, but which seems to me less desirable except in cases of congenital absence of the rectum, etc., is a simpler procedure than the other, particularly in children.