531 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE PENIS. The case illustrated in Fig. 1356 occurred in a younger patient, a boy about 14 years of age. There was no penis to be seen, but some irregularities in the pubic and sub- pubic regions. In the right groin was a small opening, about the size of a probe, through which urine was passed. On careful examination, Sir William Fergusson detected the peculiar gristly sensation communicated by the presence of the body of the penis. He carefully dissected out the organ, and, having covered it with integument, reinstated it in its normal position, much to the comfort of the unfortunate youth. This patient must have been subjected to some severe, compressing force, which stretched and injured the skin, and forced the penis subcutaneously into its new position, where a fistula for the escape of the urine was formed at a later date. These cases are to he rectified at the time of their occurrence, an attempt being made by means of a director to slip the corpora cavernosa back into their normal skin envelope. Incisions are to he made wherever the surgeon may deem necessary, in order to replace the organ. Foreign bodies are found in the urethra; those most commonly met with come from within, in the form of calculi, which may become encysted, and gradually increase in size and number, being facetted. These should be removed by a longitudinal incision over their resting place, as the force necessary to withdraw them through the urethral canal would he such as to injure the passage and set up violent inflammation and sloughing of the penis. Foreign bodies are at times introduced into the urethra from without by the patient himself, and must be removed by suitable means.1 Preputial calculi, sometimes in great numbers, are found under the foreskin, where they are moulded on the surface of the glans penis. The prepuce is much enlarged, and being contracted at the orifice, the escape of the calculi is prevented. The diagnosis is easily made, as the stones are readily felt with a probe, and are at once set free and the phimosis removed by slitting up the foreskin. In some instances it is necessary to break up the calcareous ring which surrounds the corona glanclis. In size, the stones have varied from one to six inches in circumference, and Sir B. Brodie in one case counted as many as sixty. In cases of congenital phimosis, the secretion of the glandulre odorifene becomes thickened and dried on the surface of the glans penis, which it covers like a cap. The foreskin should be slit up or circumcised, and the material removed, as then its reaccumulation will be prevented, and the part can be kept properly washed. Balanitis and Posthitis.—The first term is applied to inflammation of the glans penis, and the second to inflammation of the mucous membrane lining the foreskin ; the two conditions are often associated. The most common causes are want ot cleanliness owing to phimosis; the contact of some irri- tating secretion, such as the smegma praeputii, or gonorrhoeal or other dis- charges ; and the irritation caused hy incontinence of urine. There may be a thick and profuse discharge, but there will be no scalding on making water, as in gonorrhoeal urethritis, nor will there be chordee. The internal surface of the prepuce and the surface of the glans penis can be seen, the epithelium being stripped off in places. The part is sore and itches, and the urine when it passes causes some smarting. The ulceration is merely superficial, and soon }delds to cleanliness and astringent applications. The inguinal glands may enlarge slightly, but are not likely to suppurate; when warts are present, there is a profuse, offensive discharge, which acts as an irritant to the parts 1 See page 450, supra.