315 METHOD OF OPERATING. At the beginning of my hospital career the right side of the patient seemed to me preferable, and I adopted it, and now, from habit perhaps, consider it the easier and more natural one. I therefore recommend it. It was the position which I generally saw selected by Civiale and by Sir Philip Cramp- ton. The introduction of the 1 ithotrite is practised by some indifferently, either sitting or standing, and on the right or left side of the patient. If, with an instrument of such inconsiderable weight as a catheter, it is not allowable to add much additional weight, still less is it allowable with an instrument already many times heavier. The increased weight of the lithotrite is alone more than sufficient, when once it has passed the mea- tus, to insure its passage along the urethra and into the bladder. The calibre of the canal is nowhere less than at the meatus, and here alone a slight amount of pressure, with a somewhat rotatory movement, may be allowable. The meatus is rarely as wide as the rest of the urethra, even in the healthiest persons and in those who have never had balanitis. My experience in this respect corresponds with that of Mr. Berkeley Hill, who thinks that the meatus is “normally narrower than the rest of the canal, or that its morbid contraction is exceedingly common.” The meatus once passed, no difficulty is generally experienced till the instrument is beneath the pubic symphysis, when its handle must be depressed. This carries it beyond the membranous portion, where delay sometimes occurs, and to the prostatic, where difficulty is sometimes experienced, especially in old men, in whom prostatic enlargement is usually accompanied by elongation of the corresponding portion of the urethra, to such a degree as sometimes to lead the inexperienced surgeon to believe that his lithotrite is already in the bladder, when its point may be impinging against the superior wall of the urethral canal. When within the bladder, it is advisable to advance the instrument Avell along the floor of the organ, to make sure of its being com- pletely within the cavity, before commencing the search for the calculus. ISTot infrequently the instrument as it advances strikes against the stone. If not, it is to be again slowly withdrawn to just within the neck, when the instrument is made to dip gently from right to left and from left to right of the median line, then from front to back and from back to front. Sometimes the point of the instrument requires to be elevated, sometimes to be dipped backwards, but always with the greatest gentleness; and sometimes, also, the difficulties experienced when searching with the sound are again- renewed with the lithotrite, difficulties arising in great measure from concealment of the stone in a saccular depression behind an enlarged prostate, from the floating about of a small calculus in a capacious bladder, or from the diminished space in an irritable one. Sometimes it is considered necessary to turn the patient on either side, and various contrivances have been sug- gested and used for the purpose, the most complete perhaps being that of Reliquet, which elevates the pelvis at will or turns it in either direction. But without any special apparatus an air pillow will be found convenient. I have never had occasion to turn patients upon the side, and prefer having them always upon the back. One is less apt to forget the relations of the lithotrite to the body when the patient is in that position. When the calculus is touched with the still closed lithotrite, it is well to determine on which side it lies, so that the instrument, when opened, may the more readily grasp it. But though desirable this is not essential, and the investigation should not be pursued at the expense of any suffering from manipulation that can be avoided. When the stone is again felt, the male blade is gradually withdrawn and again pressed home, while the female blade rests against the back of the bladder, the penis in the mean time being gently held in position. In this way the stone will gener-