EFFECTS OF IRRITATION ON THE VARIOUS CONSTITUENTS OF BONES. 845 in the state of a terminal layer, in the bone of the adult, but which, in the first period of life, plays a predominant part in the formation of bone-tissue. These tissues have different physiological functions, and are of unequal im- portance in regard to pathological processes. They are more exposed to inflammation as they are more vascular, and formed of a greater quantity of soft elements and young cells. The presence of vessels in a tissue is not an indispensable condition in order that it shall undergo inflammatory changes, as was formerly believed, when the characteristic feature of inflammation was looked for especially in the modifications of the vascular system. The articular cartilages go through the first stages of inflammation, although they have no vessels; the cells proliferate and multiply in their capsules; their intercellular substance is modified and absorbed, and only at this stage do vessels appear in this trans- formed tissue. It is none the less true, however, that inflammatory processes are infinitely more rapid and more evident in tissues rich in vessels, and formed of cells which resemble embryonic tissues. Under these conditions they pass rapidly on to suppuration, and they reach this termination all the more easily as the inflamed tissues are composed of young cells held together by an intercellu- lar substance of less consistence, and traversed by numerous capillaries. It is, therefore, this greater or less abundance of young cells in the several parts making up bone, which explains their more or less active participation in the phenomena of osteitis. Experimental Study of Inflammatory Processes in Bone.—In order to properly understand the processes of inflammation in bone, it is necessary to have recourse to experimentation upon animals; there is nothing so easy as to develop osteitis in its different degrees, and to reproduce its different forms, by subjecting one or another element of bone to irritation.1 Thus it is possible to irritate the periosteum, the medulla of the central canal, or the spaces of the spongy tissue, and processes may be set up which, although differing one from the other, are always related by common char- acteristics. The following is what happens in the different tissues. If the surface of the bone be irritated by means of a sharp instrument, introduced through the flesh and carried along the diaphysis so as to make multiple punctures, lacerations, and separations of the periosteum, the bone will, at the end of two or three days, be found to be tumefied at the point where the periosteum has been wounded. At first there occurs an effusion of blood, but soon the periosteum is infiltrated, swells, and becomes thickened, and the more as the subject is younger. This thickening is due to proliferation of the cells of the deep layer of the periosteum, to which I have given the name of osteogenic layer because of its share in the normal formation of the bones and in their regeneration. This layer, which is scarcely percepti- ble in the normal state, becomes more apparent, and is usually seen in the form of a soft, homogeneous stratum, with a tufted appearance, when the periosteum is torn from the bone; sometimes it*has the appearance and consistence of cartilage. This thickening of the periosteum by hyperplasia of the osteogenic layer is characteristic of plastic periostitis. Soon new bone-tissue, in quite regular lamellre, or in nipple-shaped osteophytes, is formed on the surface of the bone, in such a manner as to produce an exos- tosis in cases in which a small surface has been irritated, or a hyperostosis if the periosteum has been separated from the greater part of the bone. This newly-formed subperiosteal osseous tissue becomes organized like 1 Trait6 Experimentale et Clinique de la Regeneration des Os, t. i. chap. v.