INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS OF THE BONES. 852 give rise to the formation of pus, or to a new bone-formation, which is only an exaggeration of the phases of normal ossification. In the medullary tissue analogous processes occur: the small cells multiply, ancl the large cells become more apparent and at the same time more numerous. The inter-cellular sub- stance assumes at a certain period a fibrous appearance, becomes sclerosed, and afterward produces trabecular bone-formations, which persist or are absorbed according to the course of the inflammation. Inflammation of Bone in Relation to its Constituent Tissues ; Periostitis ; Osteomyelitis, etc. The multiplied vascular relations which exist between the different tissues constituting bone, and the continuity of the subperiosteal osteogenic layer with the central medullary tissue by means of the cellular elements contained in the canals of Havers, establish a physiological solidarity between these different elements, and explain the closeness of their pathological relations. Inflammation is communicated from one to the other by reason of the simi- larity of their anatomical elements, and of the abundance of bloodvessels which traverse them. Yet for a long time inflammations of the periosteum and of the medulla were described separately, and before Crampton had created the word periostitis, descriptions had been given of inflammation both of the external membrane of the bones (Boerhaave, Van Swieten), and of the medul- lary membrane. Superficial inflammations were attributed to the periosteum, deep ones to the medulla. In our day, these distinction’s have been made more precise, and the majority of authors have described periostitis and osteo- myelitis separately. The name medullitis has also been given to inflamma- tion of the medulla of the central canal. Inflammation starts, in fact, in either one or other of the tissues constituting bone, and may remain limited to it for a certain period. At other times it attacks almost simultaneously all the tissues of the bone, or may pass from one to the other with great rapidity, when it is difficult to classify the case either among inflammations of the periosteum or among those of the medulla. It is now no longer a periostitis or an endosteitis; it is an inflammation of the bone, or, in other words, an osteitis. The term osteitis is not applicable solely to inflammation of the substance of bone. As has been said above, bone-substance inflames only by means of the soft and vascular elements which it contains ; whence, though it is the char- acteristic substance of bone, it constitutes the least important element in its pathological processes. On this account it has sometimes been said that in inflammation of bone there is only periostitis or medullitis. We should in regard to osteitis refrain from disputing about words, and should not press too far the spirit of systematic classification. Therefore, while admitting isolated inflammation of the periosteum, and of the central medulla, I shall occupy myself especially with inflammation of bone. I shall describe it under the name osteitis, this word signifying not inflamma- tion of bone-substance, but inflammation of the osseous tissue, consisting at once of periosteum, of medullary tissue, and of bone-substance, properly so called. Having made these reservations in regard to the inter-connection of inflam- mations of the various elements of bone, I shall give a special description of periostitis and of osteomyelitis. The opinions of surgeons have often dif- fered in regard to the share of these separate inflammations in the pathology of the osseous system; sometimes they have exaggerated the importance of