199 SOLVENT TREATMENT OF STONE. This experience was repeated in other alleged instances of cure, as may he seen by looking into the rather extensive literature of the period.1 Many patients, on the other hand, who took these remedies, had no stone at all, but being relieved by the alkali of certain symptoms, testified that they had been cured of stone. As soon as it began to be supposed that the lime in burnt egg and snail- shells effected the cure, Whytt, of Edinburgh, devised a cure by lime-water and soap, and published, among many others, the case of one David Miller, who took three pints of lime-water and an ounce and a half of Castile soap daily, and passed some broken fragments of stone, and in whose bladder, when he died eleven years subsequently, no stone was found. Mascagni, in Italy, published his own case as an example of cure by drink- ing Seltzer water and a weak solution of bicarbonate of potassium. He had lumbar pains, and passed some acid gravel during the treatment. Heller2 reports the cure of a case of urostealith calculus, by administering two drachms of carbonate of sodium daily. The patient voided considerable masses of urostealith, and was pronounced cured in a fortnight. Chevalier and C. Petit, in France, stand at the head of the investigators into the value of natural mineral waters, notably Vichy, in dissolving stone; but some of their conclusions have not been confirmed, as, for instance, that triple-phosphate calculi are acted upon more efficiently by Vichy water than stones of uric acid (Petit); and Petit again made a famous mistake3 in assert- ing the cure of stone in a well-known gentleman, from whose bladder a stone as large as a hen's egg was removed after death. The committee appointed by the Academy of Medicine to examine the claims of Petit, decided against the probability that urinary concretions, “large enough to constitute actual stones,” could be cured by the waters of Vichy; yet even to this day patients with stone and gravel go to Vichy under the belief that their stones can be dissolved. The most serious scientific effort which has been made to establish the solvent treatment of stone, is that of Roberts,4 of Manchester. Basing his conclusions upon a large number of careful experiments, performed upon stones with various alkaline solutions out of the body, Roberts finds the car- bonate of potassium to be the best solvent for uric-acid concretions; much better, he thinks, than the salts of lithium or sodium. If the solution be too strong, an alkaline bi-urate coats the stone, and further solution ceases, but such excess of alkalinity can hardly be maintained in the body. The citrates, acetates, and other alkaline salts given by the mouth, are all eliminated as carbonates in the urine, and the salt which in practice Roberts finds most effective, and least likely, by long-continued use, to upset the stomach, is the citrate of potassium. But the citrate of potassium may prove to be too diuretic, making the alka- line solution of urine too feeble to be effective. In such case he substitutes for it, in part or wholly, the bicarbonate of potassium or sodium, or the liquor potasspe. The proper dose of the citrate, for an adult, is from forty to fifty- grains in a gill of water every three or four hours, so that the daily dose shall be six drachms. The urine may become cloudy from precipitated phosphates, but this does not hinder solution, which continues unless the urine becomes ammoniacal, when all action ceases. Hence an essential condition is that 1 James Parsons reports twelve such cases. (A description, etc., London, 1742.) Horace Wal- pole’s case is in point. Thompson quotes it, and Le Roy d’Etiolles (fils) alludes to several very- interesting cases. 2 Heller’s Archiv, Bd. ii. S. 2. 1845. 3 Leroy d’fitiolles (fils), Traite pratique de la gravelle, p. 531. Paris, 1869. 4 Urinary and Renal Diseases, Second American Edition, pp. 298-321. 1872.