740 • INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE FEMALE GENITALS. along with diseased tissue, and the action of which cannot be so well limited; there is, moreover, greater liability to injury of the vagina or vulva in its introduction and withdrawal, and, in general, the suffering is greater unless an anaesthetic is used. While anaesthesia is usually advisable in these opera- tions, there may he circumstances in an individual case which forbid it. Dr. Wilson, of Baltimore, has devised an ingenious thermo-cautery shield: It consists of an Eguisier’s irrigateur, to which is attached a rubber tube convey- ing cold water from the irrigator to a hollow metal sheath which encircles the cautery knife ; the water transmitted through this sheath prevents the burning of parts adjacent to the knife. In general, both the galvanic and the thermic cautery are more used to supplement amputation of the cervix in malignant disease than for the opera- tion itself; after amputation by other means, either of these may be success- fully employed to remove diseased tissue in the cervical canal above the line of section. » Vaginal Extirpation of the Cancerous Uterus. In describing this operation, the method of Schroeder will be followed.1 “ After exposure of the vagina, and drawing the cervix by means of Museux’s forceps to the vaginal entrance, a circular incision is made in the vaginal vault. Now the bladder is completely separated from the uterus by means of the finger, and the peritoneum of Douglas’s pouch is freely opened. By means of this wound the artificially retro flexed uterus is then drawn into the vagina by the finger, or by Museux’s forceps, and, on the fingers inserted in the abdominal cavity as a guide, the peritoneum of the vesico-uterine exca- vation is incised. The uterus is now free anteriorly and posteriorly, and after cutting the lateral attachments, it can be removed as a whole. In this extirpation it is necessary to avoid hemorrhage as much as possible ; this is most easily accomplished by using double ligatures closely applied to the sides of the uterus, and by being careful to ligate every large vessel as soon as it is cut. If advisable, the tubes and the ovaries are also removed. This large incision is best treated by inserting a thick drainage tube; the mucous membrane of the vagina may be sutured, which I prefer, or it may remain open.” As Schroeder says, total extirpation of the uterus should only be done when it is believed that all cancerous tissue can be removed by it, and when this result cannot he accomplished by any other means. This is particularly the case in carcinoma of the cervical mucous membrane, in which affection the mucous membrane of the uterine body is very soon involved. If the disease involve’the cervix and the body, and if there he no implication of the neighboring organs, then total extirpation is proper; if the uterus be so large that it cannot be removed in this way, Freund’s method may he adopted, although the patient has very few chances of recovery after that operation. Elytrorraphy. Elytrorraphy, or Colporraphy, is an operation by which the calibre of the vagina is lessened. If the operation be upon the anterior wall of the vagina, it is anterior colporraphy, and if upon the posterior wall, posterior colporraphy ; when upon both walls, the two being partially united, it is median colporraphy, 1 Handbucli der Krankheiten der weiblichen Gteschlectsorgane, S. 302. Leipzig, 1884.