1116 APPENDIX. cial ventilator may be provided to carry off the products of combustion. It is obvious that the electric light will be of great advantage when its use becomes practicable. Furnishing and Fittings.—The furniture of hospital wards should be plain and simple, and there should be no more than is absolutely necessary, in order that it may be easily kept clean, and may not interfere with the cir- culation of air in the ward. The bedsteads should be of iron, and substantial enough to be firm, and thus the more desirable and economical. Mattresses of woven wire are very satisfactory, but for the sick there should usually be in addition, for warmth at least, thin mattresses of hair. There may be bedside tables, having shelves with open sides, but no drawers, and comfort- able but plain chairs. Portable screens, of non-absorbent material, may be used about the beds, but no curtains. Pictures, flowers, etc., may be sup- plied in moderation, and will be beneficial. All fittings should be simple in construction, as has been suggested in the description of the service-rooms. Everything should be contrived with a view to ease of keeping clean and of inspection. All receptacles for utensils should be well ventilated. Organization and Management.—The general control of a hospital should be in the hands of a board of governors or trustees. In incorporated institu- tions of a private character, such a board is usually representative of a larger corporation, by which this managing board is elected. Municipal and other public hospitals have their boards appointed by the local government, and are apt to be subject to the vicissitudes of party politics. The stability of control is sometimes guarded by acts of incorporation by the State, and by checks upon the power of appointment of trustees. As a rule, medical men are regarded as ineligible to such bodies of control of public hospitals. The governors or trustees should have entire control of all the business affairs of the hospital, and of the appointment and government of all its officers and servants. The medical staff' should be appointed annually by the trustees, and their duties should be confined strictly to medical and surgical attendance upon the patients, and to the giving of directions, etc., for their care. Beyond this, all responsibility for the execution of such directions rests upon the government of the hospital and upon its executive officers. The responsibility for having good nurses, servants, etc., rests upon the management. The immediate man- agement should be in the hands of a superintendent, responsible oidy to the trustees, and having entire executive control of all the internal affairs of the institution, and of other officers, all of whom should be subordinate to him. Thus the chief officer may be held responsible for the good or bad management of every detail in the work of the hospital. The superintendent of a general hospital should be a medical man, and he may exercise his medical functions in supervising the admission of patients, but he should have no charge of the treatment of the sick, except that in the first care of surgical and other cases, when admitted, he may, as a qualified medical man, take cognizance of emergencies, and even direct under-grad- uate house-officers as to treatment, before the visiting physician or surgeon arrives. He may contribute in a similar way to the welfare of patients in the wards, among whom a grave emergency may occasionally arise, but always on the same principles of medical ethics which would govern a general practitioner, when called in an emergency to a case in the care of a tempora- rily absent physician, who is his neighbor. The superintendent should have exclusive charge of maintaining order and