SYMPTOMS OF INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTION. 00 cause one or two evacuations of fecal matter accumulated below the point of obstruction. In acute intussusception the patient experiences a constant desire to go to stool—which Mr. Pollock considers almost pathognomonic—- and with the tenesmus there is not unfrequently a discharge of mucus from the rectum, mingled with fluid or clotted blood. Diminished Flow of TJrine.—The amount of urine excreted is lessened in all cases of acute intestinal obstruction, and it has been maintained by Dr. Barlow and Dr. Golding Bird, as well as by Mr. Hilton, that the diminution is proportional to the proximity of the obstruction to the pylorus. Doubt has however been thrown upon this proposition by several writers, including Habershon, Leichtenstern, Sedgwick, Gay, and Treves, and it is probable that, as pointed out by the last-named surgeons, it is rather the completeness than the situation of the strangulation which determines the degree of anuria, and that the mistake has arisen from the fact that acute obstruction usually affects the small, and chronic obstruction the large intestine. The flow is measurably restored when the patient is brought fully under the influence of opium, although the obstruction be unrelieved. This is partly due to the cessation of vomiting—which, by exhausting the fluids of the system, itself tends to diminish the flow of urine—but mainly to the action of the drug on the nervous system. The symptom may be of some value, however, in cases of incomplete and chronic obstruction, the excretion being, as observed by Leichtenstern, constantly less in constrictions high up, as it is in those of the pylorus itself, but not in constrictions of the lower ileum and large intestine. Tympanites.—This is an early and well-marked symptom in cases of vol- vulus, but is less prominent in other forms of intestinal obstruction, being indeed often absent unless general peritonitis is developed. The swelling in volvulus is usually at first limited to the left side (sigmoid flexure), though this rule is not without exceptions; ultimately the whole belly becomes uni- formly distended. As a contrast to the tympanites of volvulus, I may refer to the so-called “ signe de Dance,”1 which consists in the presence of a marked depression in the right iliac fossa, owing to the displacement of the caecum in cases of ilio-eaecal invagination. As pointed out by Rafinesque, this symp- tom may be artificially induced by inflating the rectum and lower bowel with air, and the position of an intussusception may thus sometimes be deter- mined. Visible movements of the coils of intestine, though common in cases of chronic obstruction, are rare when the occlusion is primarily acute; hence, when observed with symptoms of acute obstruction, they indicate that the latter has been superadded to a previously existing chronic condition. The Abdominal Tumor.—This is one of the most important symptoms in cases of intussusception, and has been noted in more than one-half of the recorded eases. It must not be confounded with the localized, tympanitic distension of volvulus, nor with the tumor produced by impacted feces; it would hardly seem necessary to say that no confusion should arise between this and the normal structures of the body, but that I have known the con- vexity of the lumbar vertebrae to be mistaken for an invaginated bowel. In the large majority of cases, the tumor of intussusception is found upon the left side, not attracting attention until the caecum and ascending colon are well advanced into the transverse and descending colon. In many cases, in chil- dren especially, the tumor can be distinctly felt from the rectum. It is much more prominent during an exacerbation of pain than when the bowel is qui- escent. The tumor of fecal accumulation is almost always found at the right side (caecum), and, which Treves and Sawyer consider a pathognomonic sign, may often be made to pit by firm external pressure. 1 Named, after Dance, a French surgeon, who wrote in the early part of this eentury.