294 URINARY CALCULUS. the comparative .infrequence of serious vesical catarrh, are sufficient to- account for the relative rarity of secondary phosphatic stone in women. Cystocele, on the other hand—a condition quite analogous to sacculation—is not uncommon in the female. Foreign bodies as a nucleus for stone play a relatively more important part in women than in men, for obvious reasons. Gynaecologists have no- ticed that large stones are sometimes found in the female bladder shortly after the surgical closure of a vesico-vaginal fistula. Emmet says that he has encountered many such cases, and that he sometimes has found a small portion of silver wire to be the nucleus of such a concretion. My collection contains one stone of this character, the inference being obvious that the operator, when closing the fistula, left a fragment of silver wire in the bladder. As a rule, in such cases, Emmet1 believes that the phosphatic nucleus of the stone forms upon some denuded portion of the cut surface which has been carelessly turned inward, and left thus when the surgeon has- been adjusting the edges of the vesico-vaginal wound. Campbell,2 of Georgia, has taken the ground that stone may often exist within the bladder at the moment of operation for fistula, and escape the notice of the surgeon, being held up and out of the way, concealed in the folds of the bladder, by partial vesical contraction, and coming down into the vesical cavity after the latter has been formed by an obliteration of the vaginal fistula. The relative frequency of stone in women is generally estimated at about 1 in 20 as compared with the male. In the Norwich collection (Crosse) 669 stones came from males, 35 from females, or 1 in 19. Civiale’s3 statistics from the Hotel-Dieu show that, between 1808 and 1830, out of 284 operations for stone, 17 were upon females, a ratio of 1 in 16. Again, Civiale shows that in 1104 cases in Italy, the ratio of females to males was 1 in 18, and in France among 2834 operations 1 in 22. South,4 in a table of operations at St. Thomas’s Hospital from 1822 to 1845, gives only two as occurring in females among 144 cases, 1 in 72. Coulson5 has shown that out of 2834 patients, 123 were females, 1 in 23. Prout gives the same number in his estimate. Ixline is quoted by Coulson as making the proportion in the Moscow City Hospital, from 1822 to 1860, much lower—1792 cases, of which 4 were in females, 1 in 448. The symptoms of stone in the bladder in the female are similar to those observed in the male—namely, those of cystitis and vesical irritation; fre- quent urination, often with blood; much tenesmus; bearing-down, dragging pains in the lower belly, groins, loins, and back, sometimes streaming down the thighs; and, not infrequently, incontinence of urine. All these symp- toms are aggravated by exercise, and are subject to periods of exacerbation. The symptoms sometimes simulate those of uterine disease, but physical ex* ploration clears up the doubt. Retention of urine in the female may be caused by impaction of stone in the urethra. The diagnosis of stone in the female is easier than in the male. A finger in the vagina greatly facilitates the search, and a short, curved, or straight steel sound usually strikes the foreign body at once. In case of grave doubt, where a small stone is encysted or in an out-of-the-way position, it is en- tirely justifiable to administer ether, and, dilating the urethra, to explore the whole of the interior of the bladder with the finger. In one case,, 1 Principles and Practice of Gynaecology, p. 741. 1879. 2 Trans. Am. Gynaecol. Soc., vol. i., 1875 ; and Emmet, op. cit. 3 Traite de PAffection Calculeuse, p. 594. Paris, 1838 4 Chelins’s Surgery, vol. ii. p. 635. 5 Litliotrity and Lithotomy, p. 247 ; and op cit., p. 370.