894 INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS OF THE BONES. eburnated sequestra which are found in the midst of purulent or fungating loci, and which many surgeons have considered, since the researches of A elaton, as tuberculous products. I cannot admit this interpretation without- resei ve, so fai that I do not consider these eburnated masses to have been oiiginally the seat of the tuberculous neoplasia. I do not regard them as tuberculous, hut as para-tuberculous products, if I may so express myself, that is to say, products formed alongside of tuberculous deposits. They are one ot the multiple forms of chronic osteitis which accompany tubercle of the bones, but not a phase of tuberculosis itself. Figs. 1438 and 1439 show a specimen of these eburnated masses, which take a long time to form, and which are hut slowly separated from the organism. I cannot admit that these masses, which by their eburnated nature are very re- fractory to tuberculosis, can be its product. Figure 1438 shows the articular Fig. 1438. Fig. 1439. Condyles of the femur, removed in a resection of the knee, presenting at their lower part hard masses, eburnated hy condensing osteitis. The mass B is continuous with the neighboring portions of hone. The mass A is already to a great extent isolated from the healthy tissues. In the section, Fig. 1439, it is seen to be necrosed, except per- haps at its upper part, where in the fresh specimen an irregularly outlined, slightly rosy point could be distin- guished. surface of the condyles of a femur, the protruding part of which is deprived of cartilage, smooth, and eburnated. The internal condyle shows a sequestrum which is beginning to be separated from the surrounding parts; on the ex- ternal condyle, separation has not yet begun appreciably. In the section of the internal condyle (Fig. 1439) it is seen that the eburnated part corresponds to a mass of the same structure, which occupies a large part of the thick- ness of the bone. Doubtless tuberculous products may be found around these eburnated masses; but they have never been found in their tissue. The histology of these eburnated sequestra has been well studied by Ranvier, who found in their structure the remains of the old bone which had escaped the rarefying osteitis, in the midst of bony deposits of new formation. The arrangement of the lamellae differs in the two tissues. The sequestra of osteitis, which are, I repeat, only living portions of bone