377 HYPERTROPHY OF THE PROSTATE. tive functions, of the laws which Paget has formulated as the determining causes of hypertrophies, or overgrowths, in other parts of the body. These are, (1) the increased exercise of a part in discharge of its natural function, >(2) an increased supply of healthy blood, and (3) an increased accumulation in the blood of the particular materials which such part appropriates in its nutrition, or for secretion. It has been objected that an explanation which endeavors to connect prostatic enlargement with sexual vigor must fail to suffice, inasmuch as the growth does not commence at a time when the re- productive powers are active, but rather when they are on the decline. That the withdrawal of a portion of that function of the prostate in which it lias been the most vigorously engaged, should be followed by a continued activity in which growth is substituted for secretion, is not, I consider, pathologically illogical; whatever may be the explanation, my own observation leads me to believe that prostatic hypertrophy is almost always met with in persons whose sexual propensities have been well, if not excessively, maintained. Symptoms.—In a certain proportion of cases, hypertrophy of the prostate is unattended by any special symptoms pointing to its presence. In fact, the disorder does not come under our notice, except in connection with some derangement in micturition. Even very large prostates have failed to indi- cate their existence otherwise than by causing a mechanical obstacle to defecation. The deductions which may be drawn from cases in which the prostate is large, but does not obstruct micturition, will be referred to in connection with its early treatment under those circumstances. More commonly an enlargement of the prostate shows itself by some inter- ference with the act of micturition, and when this occurs for the first time in a man after he has passed his fifty-fifth year, it is very significant of the aftection. The first signs have reference usually to the size of the stream of urine, to the patient’s diminished power of projecting it, and to the frequency with which the act of micturition is performed. As time goes on, the urine becomes altered in character; it is disagreeable to the smell, and often otfen- sively ammoniacal; large quantities of mucus are voided with it, and cling tenaciously to the vessel into which it is received. These symptoms are divisible into two classes, (1) those first enumerated, which indicate that the prostate is impeding micturition, and (2) those which result from the decomposition that naturally takes place in a bladder contain- ing stagnant urine. lienee in nearly all cases of advanced prostatic hyper- trophy, we have the symptoms of varying degrees of cystitis, superadded to those of obstruction. In the later stages of the disease, these combined conditions bring about a state of the most extreme misery. The bladder becomes absolutely intolerant of urine, and the act of micturition, or the passing of a catheter, has to be per- formed so frequently, both by night and by day, as to prevent the patient from obtaining sutficient, continuous rest. Under these circumstances, a condition of ammonaemia is frequently set up, which almost invariably brings about a fatal termination. Symptoms such as these naturally suggest a careful phy- sical examination of the prostate from the two passages with which it is in relation, namely, the urethra and the rectum. By digital examination of the gland from the rectum, we shall be able to ascertain whether in this direction there are evidences of its increased growth. Though we cannot here detect any, we are not therefore to infer that none exists, inasmuch as instances are frequent of prostatic enlargement taking place towards the vesical aspect of the gland, which is undetectable from the bowel; and conversely the gland may be considerably enlarged towards the rectum, and yet, as far as the urethra is concerned, as demonstrated by the use of the catheter, no obstacle may be occasioned.