184 URINARY CALCULUS. ered with a blood clot. But adhesion does occur in two ways: (1) crystalline deposits form upon an eroded surface and are entangled in long granulations; and (2) the pressure of a rough stone may so irritate the mucous membrane that granulations form and entangle themselves among the irregularities of the stone. T. G. Morton1 reports an operation for removal of a phosphatic calculus of one hundred and sixty-five grains, which was firmly attached by a long pedicle to the top of the bladder. All doubt about the adhesion of stones has been removed by evidence furnished at autopsies—such as the following:— A woman2 of 50 died at the Middlesex Hospital, England, of uterine and ovarian cancer, having no symptoms of stone. A vesical calculus was found after death, a “ flat scale or lamina about half an inch in diameter, situated at the base of the bladder about an inch from the opening of the urethra.” It reposed upon an ulcerated area, and minute shreds of tissue could be seen passing into the concretion which was composed mainly of phosphate of lime and crystals of oxalate of lime. Mr. Nunn3 reports an example of adherent stone, as large as a nutmeg, composed exteriorly of uric acid and phosphates,-and found in a dead-house case. The stone was attached just behind the prostate. Finally, another post-mortem case is related by F. Powell.1 It occurred at the Necker Hospital, Paris, and Civiale exhibited the specimen to his class. The stone was phosphatic, projected three-quarters of an inch into the bladder, and had formed upon an ulcer at the base of the bladder, being firmly attached to the muscular coat. I have encountered adherent stone only once, and this was a thin layer mixed with granulations on the back wall of a bladder in a patient whom I cut by the median operation, and from whom I extracted a small phosphatic stone. To remove the adherent laminated stone, I was obliged to use consid- erable force, and to scrape the mucous membrane bare, removing both granu- lations and debris of stone. The patient made a good recovery under injections acidulated with dilute nitric acid. When a stone is adherent, the symptoms it occasions are usually obscure and generally more like the symp- toms of severe chronic cystitis than like the classical symptoms of stone. Symptoms of Urinary Calculus in tile Bladder.—There is no symptom, no set of symptoms, absolutely and invariably pathognomonic of the existence of stone in the bladder, except the physical sign furnished by touching it directly or with an instrument. All so-called symptoms may he present without stone. On the other hand, there is no ordinary symptom of calculus which may not be absent in a given case, and perhaps all of them may fail, and the stone elude even a skilled searcher. A certain grouping of symptoms, however, is very suggestive of the presence of stone. These symptoms are:—- 1. Frequency of urination, greater by day than by night, aggravated by exercise, especially by jolting, and sometimes amounting to incontinence in children, or even in an old patient with a large stone, or when a portion of the stone grows into the urethral orifice. 2. Hsematuria, especially after exercise. 3. Sudden stoppage of the full stream of urine, attended by pain and a desire to strain. 4. Pain, sometimes referred to the rectum or perineum, more often to the meatus urinarius, or, especially in the adult, to a point on the under surface of the urethra, about, three-quarters of an inch from the meatus. 1 Penna. Hosp. Reports, p. 49. 1869. 2 Van der Byl, Trans. Path. Soc. Lond., vol. ix. p. 296. 1857-1858. 3 Med. Times and Gaz., vol. ix. p. 579. 1854. 4 Ibid., vol. ix. p. 528. 1854.