OVARIAN CYSTS AND CYSTOMATA. 795 For an expert ovariotomist, and in simple cases, it is not. In obscure or complicated cases not one of these tests can be safely omitted, and to the inex- perienced surgeon they are always necessary. It is a truism that “ fools rush in where angels fear to tread,” and he who has learned by long experience how imperfect is his knowledge, will be the last to neglect any aid, however slight, in forming a certain diagnosis. In every case, the conscientious practitioner will endeavor to verify his opinion by the combination of all these tests except the three last enume- rated, and, possibly, auscultation, which is of value chiefly when a suspicion of pregnancy has arisen. In the application of the first of these means of diagnosis, and throughout the entire examination, the patient is placed in the recumbent position upon a firm table or other resisting surface, with the knees drawn up, the abdo- men exposed, and all constricting clothing about the waist removed. If the supposed cyst has passed the first stage of development and has risen into the abdominal cavity, a lateral or central enlargement of the abdomen will be perceptible, but rarely as a tumor with definite outlines. The hands are then placed flat upon the abdominal surface, and steady pressure is made downward towards the spine, and from side to side, while the patient’s atten- tion (if she be nervous or alarmed) is diverted by questions about her symp- toms or antecedent history. By this means the swelling, if cystic, will he felt as an elastic, resisting mass, movable perhaps from side to side, but not to be displaced by firm pressure; if due to accumulations of fat, the feeling will be doughy, and the fingers are gradually felt to approximate the spine; while if caused by gaseous distention of the intestines, the movement of flatus will soon be felt, and can be otherwise identified, as will be more fully stated hereafter. In advanced stages of cystic growth, and especially in cases of polycystic tumor, the abdominal appearance is almost pathognomonic of ovarian disease without the application of further tests. The abdomen is enormously dis- tended, the superficial veins are enlarged in all directions, the false ribs are pushed out, and the epigastric region is made prominent by the encroaching growth, the upper and lateral outlines of which are often irregular, while, in spite of the immense pressure, the umbilicus is flat, or even retracted, instead of protuberant as in ascites. Distinct fissures or sulci are sometimes apparent to the eye, and more often to the touch, indicating the lines of demarcation between the several parts of a polycystic growth. In these cases the exist- ence of a “tumor” is of course obvious, for simple ascites never presents such characters ; and the object of examination becomes at once the differentiation of this tumor from other morbid growths, such as malignant disease of the omentum or peritoneum, which might possibly cause the appearance described. This differentiation is occasionally, although rarely, a matter of extreme difficulty. Mensuration is of advantage chiefly in the early stage of ovarian tumors, when the growth occupies one iliac region ; or in poly cysts at any period of development. Here, measuring accurately from the sternum, or umbilicus, to the iliac crests, will show a marked difference on the two sides, which never occurs in abdominal dropsy. This, however, is its chief value, as all abdominal tumors would evidently cause the same discrepancy. Palpation and percussion are always combined with the first named method of investigation, and serve to establish the outline of a tumor, and the sense of fluctuation if fluid be present, and to exclude gaseous distention of the intestines or peritoneum. An ovarian cyst is elastic when compressed, and dull on percussion. Auscultation mainly aids in excluding pregnancy, although it is also of