488 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE URETHRA. of tlie scrotal pouch, perineal or perineoscrotal hypospadia is established. If on the contrary, the work of organization continuing, the arrest of develop- ment does not take place until after the inferior buds have united in the median line, it is in the re-entrant peno-scrotal angle that the orifice of the urethra opens, and penoscrotal hypospadia results. The penile portion of the urethra results from the fusion in the median line of the two lateral edges of the groove constituted by the development of the superior external genital buds. The absence of the union gives rise to penile or balanic hypo- spadia. Perineo-scrotal hypospadia is usually complicated by an absence of the anterior part of the urethra. Sometimes, however, even when posterior evolution is arrested, anterior evolution may be effected. Then the anterior canal exists, although fusion of the posterior portion of the urethra may not have taken place. Sometimes, finally, fusion of the urethra anteriorly, instead of being wanting for a considerable extent, is only wanting at one point in the continuity of the urethra, whence arises the formation of a sort of congenital fistula. Hence two chief forms of hypospadia: (1) that in which the urethra is absent in front of the opening, and which is much the more common ; (2) that very rare form in which the urethra exists in front of the abnormal opening. Pathological Anatomy.—I shall admit, with the majority of authors, three kinds of hypospadia, which I shall describe successively under the names of balanic or glandular, penile, and, scrotal; this last kind comprises two varieties, for which I have proposed the denominations of penoscrotal and perineoscro- tal hypospadia. (1) Balanic or Glandular Hypospadia.—This is the form in which the open- ing of the urethra is situated on the lower surface of the glans. There is no frrenum. The canal, arrested at the base of the glans, is continued to the extremity of the latter by a shallow groove, constituted by the upper wall of the fossa navicularis. The opening, often masked by the skin of the penis, which forms at this point a sort of valve, is rounded or transverse, and some- times so minute that it can oidy with difficulty be traversed by the most delicate probe. In certain cases, in front of the hypospadic opening, there is a second opening, situated at the extremity of the glans and terminating in a cul-de-sac. These two openings communicated in a case reported by Jarjavay. The shape of the glans is modified in balanic hypospadia. This organ is flattened, spread out, and recurved at its point. The thick prepuce, as if gathered back, covers only the dorsal surface of the glans, in the manner of the prepuce of the clitoris; sometimes, even, it is altogether wanting. Ordi- narily there is a slight curvature of the penis at its anterior part. In a cer- tain number of cases there have been observed, as very rare complications of balanic hypospadia, the following malformations:— Torsion of the penis existed to a high degree in a case reported by Professor Verneuil. The dorsal surface of the penis looked towards the scrotum, and its urethral surface was turned forward and to the left. The urethra had undergone a corresponding deviation ; it was carried from right to left, and from before backwards, twisted in a spiral round the lateral surface of the left corpus cavernosum, and resumed its median position only at the level of the root of the scrotum. An almost analogous arrangement existed in a patient seen by Guerlain. These deviations are often accompanied by cryptorchidism, or by absence of one corpus cavernosum. Balanic hypospadia may also exist with the malformation known under the name of webbed penis, which consists in a true webbing by a cutaneous fold, interposed between the lower surface of the penis and the anterior part