INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS OF THE BONES. 886 Fig. 1432. which does not permit extensive motion, but which permits the separated parts to slide one upon another, either under the influence of the weight of the body, or under the influence of muscular contractions. This mobility persists as long as the periosteal sheath is not ossified and preserves a certain degree of flexibility. For this reason its duration is very variable. In some cases, when there is only a little suppuration, limited to one point, and medullization or rarefaction of the rest of the surface of the bone,, the mobility is scarcely appreciable, and very transient. But when the end of the diaphysis is bathed in pus, and necrosis extends for a considerable dis- tance, the abundance of the suppura- tion retards the plastic process, and the periosteal sheath remains a long time flexible and movable. The separated diaphysis may then be dragged in one direction by muscular contraction, and the necrosed extremity, which presses- against the periosteal sheath, finally perforates it, and may even protrude under the skin. These displacements vary for each bone. I give here some illustrations:— Here, first, is a separation of the upper end of the diaphysis of the tibia (Fig. 1432). The epiphysis has pre- served its relation to the femur; the knee-joint is intact; but the diaphysis is displaced upon the epiphysis, and instead of being in the axis of the femur, it is inclined inwards. At first sight, it might be called a genu-varum ; but,, as I have just said, the knee is intact. In this case the necrosis lasted about two months,and some pieces of necrosed spongy tissue were eliminated. The limb may be partly brought back to its normal position and may become consolidated. Among the cases which I have seen, I will mention the following, which involves both lower limbs, and which presents a forward deviation of the diaphysis of the femur, and a backward deviation of that of the tibia (Fig. 1433). Above the patella on the left side a second prominence is seen, as marked as that of the patella itself. This form is characteristic, and consti- tutes what I have designated under the name of double-knee. The epiphy- sis has been drawn backwards by the muscles which flex the leg upon the thigh, while the periosteal sheath has been still pliable; for, from this there has resulted an anterior projection, formed by the lower extremity of the dia- Separation of the upper juxta-epiphyseal extremity ol the diaphysis of the tibia from the corresponding epiphysis. Inclination of the leg inwards.