VITAL AND ORGANIC LESIONS OF THE URETHRA. 481 tensity all the greater as the muscular fibres which have been preserved are more numerous. Treatment.—The treatment of idiopathic spasm of the urethra has been studied in connection with the subject of contracture of the neck of the blad- der, and I shall not return to it. In regard to symptomatic spasm, the sur- geon should direct his treatment against the cause which has given rise to it. For very acute inflammation of the urethra, he will prescribe an energetic antiphlogistic treatment; in case of exaggerated sensitiveness of the mucous membrane (irritable stricture), narcotics, antispasmodics, and direct cauteriza- tion of the mucous membrane should be employed, and afterwards methodical treatment of the stricture itself. If these means fail, recourse may be had to anaesthesia, and urethrotomy or divulsion may be practised. Urinary Pouches.—Urinary pouches are cavities which communicate with the urethra, and in which urine remains in the intervals of micturition. I shall describe two varieties: in the first the canal is simply dilated, and its walls have not undergone any solution of continuity ; in the second the urethra is perforated, and the urine is contained in a sort of sac, formed at the expense of the peri-urethral tissues and communicating with the canal. (1) Urinary Pouches from Dilatation of the Urethra.-—-These pouches may be congenital, but they are almost always accidental, a condition indispensable to their production being the existence in the urethra of an obstacle to mic- turition (stricture, foreign body). The mechanism of their formation is, moreover, easy to conceive. The bladder, hypertrophied in consequence of the contractions to which it is compelled in order to void its contents, exerts on the walls of the urethra situated above the obstruction a more and more energetic pressure, which separates them violently and ends by causing dilatation. Pathological Anatomy.—The anatomical characteristics of these pouches differ notably according to the causes which give rise to them. Those which are due to the presence of a calculus are generally situated in the perineum, at the root of the scrotum. Sometimes, however, they are found in front of the scrotum and even very near the glans. In the perineum they are ovoid or globular, and of quite large dimensions; their form is more elongated, and their size is much smaller, in the spongy region, where they constitute a simple dilatation of the urethra, the length of which may equal or surpass five centimetres. Their development is very rapid, but often intermittent, when the stone is movable and falls back into the dilated por- tion of the canal under the influences of certain positions of the patient. When, on the contrary, the stone is not movable, the enlargement of the pouch becomes continuous, and its capacity often considerable. The mucous membrane of the dilated portion preserves its normal appearance as long as the pouch has not attained too great a size, and it presents alterations only at the level of the point occupied by the calculus. Urinary pouches which follow a stricture are almost always situated in the perineal portion of the urethra. They develop slowly, and their size is in general not very great. Their shape is sometimes rounded, more often elongated, and the mucous membrane which lines their cavity is almost always inflamed, softened, and even destroyed. Their walls are pale and of hard consistence, with a fascicu- lated appearance dependent on the presence of longitudinal, elevated ridges, separated by little cavities, of which some are simple culs-de-sac and others dilated glandular orifices. At an advanced period the elements which enter into the composition of the membranous and prostatic portions become so profoundly altered that they are almost unrecognizable. The differences which I have just mentioned depend on the condition of VOL. vi.—31