392 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE BLADDER AND PROSTATE. 2 Op. cit. p. 413. 1 Strieker’s Med. Jahr. Heft i. 1873, mid Heft ii. 1874. probably discharge spontaneously into the urethra. By urine finding its way into and being retained in the cavity of such an abscess, further inflammation and suppuration will probably be set up, and a communication may be ulti- mately established between the urethra and the rectum. This has on several occasions been noted as a termination of tuberculous prostatitis. Cysts of the Prostate. Cysts, varying in size from that of a millet-seed to that of a pea, are often observed when a section is made through the prostate. It seems probable that they take their origin in an obstruction of one or more of the gland ducts. The contents generally resemble viscid mucus, and minute calculous particles may sometimes be felt. As a morbid condition little is known of these cysts, nor are there reasons for believing that they ever occasion any inconvenience. There is a form of cyst which has been described by Dr. Englisch,1 of Vienna, which appears to be due to an occlusion of the orifice of the sinus pocularis in the prostatic urethra, and an accumulation of the secretion from the glands opening on its inner surface. Such cysts, according to these observations, have not only occasioned difficulty in micturition, but have led to other changes, such as distension and hypertrophy of the bladder, with remoter effects, due to urinary back-pressure on the kidneys. As Dr. Gross2 remarks, “ a knowledge of this variety of tumor is not devoid of practical interest, since a part at least of the cases of retention of urine in the new-born child may be traced to this cause.” Prostatic Calculus. Like other gland structures, the prostate is liable to the formation of calcu- lous concretions which will require special consideration. In structure they are entirely different from other calculi met with in the urinary organs, and appear to consist of the natural secretion of the gland in an altered form. The relation of the minute concretions so frequently met with in almost all prostates with the rarer affection of prostatic calculus, is well described in the following passage: “The prostate gland, like other glands, is liable to an inspissation of its secretion, producing small, yellow, sometimes red, or colorless bodies, scattered throughout the follicular structure. These, at first, are said to consist of organic matter which Virchow believes to be derived from a peculiar, insoluble protein substance mixed with the semen ; but sooner or later these formations are believed to irritate the mucous membrane, caus- ing phosphatic depositions which become encrusted upon the organic matter; and thus the genuine prostatic calculi are formed.”3 In this way prostatic calculi take their origin, their number, shape, and size varying in individual cases. It will be readily understood that the smaller formations in their chemical composition almost entirely consist of organic matter, whilst in the larger ones phosphate of lime largely pre- dominates. Although taking; their origin in the ducts of the gland, these concretions may assume a considerable size by their aggregation. In this way the pros- tate has, in some rare instances, been converted into a stony mass, the fibrous capsule alone of the original structure remaining. Amongst these cases must 3 Poland, Holmes’s System of Surgery, vol. iv.