EFFECTS OF IRRITATION ON THE VARIOUS CONSTITUENTS OF BONES. 849 teal tissue, or of the medullary tissue, are much more Stable, and sometimes persist indefinitely, as is observed in the callus of adults or old people. In spontaneous osteitis, or in artificial osteitis in which an attempt has been made to realize, by repeated and varying irritations, the multiplicity of forms which I have already mentioned, the return to the normal state takes place but slowly, and is not possible if sequestra are incarcerated in the medullary cavity, or if their expulsion has been followed by great loss of substance. If experiments upon animals furnish an explanation of the process of oste- itis, they cannot give us results like those which wre see in the old osteitis of men, whether spontaneous or traumatic. It is when the process lasts several years that we see those forms which have served as types for those who have described them; those hypertrophied bones made up of rarefied bone- substance without a distinct medullary cavity, or those bones strewn with projecting osteophytes and made up of a white compact substance having the appearance and consistence of ivory. The accompanying figures, taken from Gerdy,1 represent these two forms of osteitis. Fig. 1427 represents an hypertrophied tibia, the surface of wrhich is rough and uneven, and its osseous substance composed of rarefied tissue, with a very thin compact layer at the periphery. This layer, notwithstand- ing the osteophytic verrucosities which cover it, is reduced to a slight thick- ness, and has not a composition comparable to that of normal bone. This is shown in Fig. 1429. Fig. 1429. Fig. 1430. Transverse section of bone affected with Transverse section of bone affected with rarefying osteitis. (After Gerdy.) condensing osteitis. (After Gerdy.) In contrast to this rarefying osteitis, Fig. 1428 represents another tibia, the surface of which is covered with elevated osteophytes, especially along the edges of the bone. Under this osteophytic layer the original bone-tissue has undergone the process of condensing osteitis. In section (Fig. 1430) it is seen to be formed of a white compact layer of dense texture, without visible bloodvessels. The productive osteitis which gives rise to this condensation of the osseous tissue, is sometimes carried to such a point that the bone acquires an extreme hardness. The production of bone may extend into the medullary canal, which becomes more and more narrow, and is finally obliterated. Then the bone becomes very dense, and exactly resembles ivory. Direct and Indirect Irritation of the Various Elements of Bone. We have as yet examined only the direct effects of irritation upon one of the ele- ments of bone, that is to say, the effects produced upon the tissue which has been directly and immediately subjected to contact with the irritating agent. But this irritation is not limited to the point touched, it extends more or less rapidly, and with more or less intensity, to other parts, and may react upon the whole organ. In this extension the irritation is weakened, and 1 Gerdy, Maladies des Organes des Movements. (Plates III. and IV., reduced.) VOL. VI.—54