980 SCROFULO-TUBERCULOUS AND OTHER STRUCTURAL DISEASES OF BONES. dally in children and adolescents. When the patient refuses to be operated upon, or when there is any hope of securing absorption of the encysted tuberculous products, recourse may be had to the measures which I am about to describe. I have just mentioned the importance of general treatment. Great attention must be paid to this. It is in cases of this sort that sea-air and sea-baths are especially indicated, provided that the lesions are not very extensive and not painful, that the abscess is not large, that the lungs are almost intact, and that the tuberculosis is sluggish in its manifestations. Cod-liver oil ought to be insisted upon, and the phosphates, and the iodide of potassium in large doses. The excretory functions ought to be stimulated by repeated administration of purgatives and diaphoretics. Of late, jabo- randi and pilocarpine have been much praised. But, for my own part, I have never seen an ossifluent abscess disappear in consequence of diaphoresis or salivation provoked by these substances. At any rate these tentative modes of treatment should be avoided if the patient is cachectic or has fever. The local measures, capable of bringing about absorption of a tuberculous bone-manifestation and its products, are resolvent applications of the tinc- ture of iodine, of mercurial ointment, of blisters, etc., with compression pre- ceding, following, or accompanying the resolvent applications. Compression with wadding impregnated with extract of jaborandi, and an elastic bandage, when it can be employed, sometimes procures good results. It has been recommended also to employ actual or potential revulsion. Thus the actual cautery has been seen to conjure away an osteitis at its beginning. Combined with compression by wadding, and with immobilization, actual revulsion is to be recommended in the highest manner. How many patients owe it to this that they have not been subjected to gouging or resection. Immobili- zation alone may sometimes suffice to prevent the formation of an abscess or to lead to its absorption, if it is present. In case of tuberculous osteo- pathies of the vertebrae, I cannot recommend too strongly the plaster jacket, which immobilizes the vertebral column better than any other apparatus, while it enables the patient to enjoy life in the fresh air and in the sun, and to use his limbs. Bonnet’s splint ought not to be recommended except when the abscess has opened at some point on the trunk, or when there is ulcera- tion at the point of curvature. The plaster jacket put on in the beginning, usually prevents the formation of abscesses, and favors the spontaneous recovery of vertebral osteitis. If immobilization is indispensable in Pott’s disease, it is no less necessary in tuberculous osteopathies of the parts near the joints, and of the joints themselves, as every movement increases the inflammation and pain. It is less indicated in osteitis of the diaphyses. Nevertheless, we have all seen that walking and fatigue aggravate these lesions, and that rest always brings a diminution of the pain and inflammation. Being limited and sluggish, bone-tuberculosis sometimes permits the patient to earn his living in one way or another, upon condition of giving up work from time to time. I know a man about thirty years of age, who, since he was sixteen years old, has dragged about in this way a tuberculous juxta- epiphyseal and diaphyseal osteopathy of the tibia. He stops work when the seat of disease, which has been gouged out several times already, and the fistulous tracks, inflame; then, after a few days of rest, he gets better and resumes his ordinary lite. (2) Measures intended to hasten the elimination of the'products of Scrofulo-tu- berculous Osteopathies, or to suppress more or less radically the local lesion.—I have referred to ossifluent abscesses. To follow the natural order of events, I will begin the description of the operative treatment with them. Abscess precedes fistula, and the fistula leads to the seat of osteitis. I shall therefore