552 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. 6 Philadelphia Journal of Medical and Physical Sciences, vol. xiv. p. 335. Tumors of the Scrotum.—A lipoma, or steatocele, may develop in the scrotum. A scrotal fatty tumor was removed successfully by Mr. Birkett,1 without injury to the testicles, but it does not always happen that the surgeon is so fortunate; he may find that the testicle is so intimately connected with the tumor that both have to be removed. In a case of this kind, Mr. Lane, of St. Mary’s Hospital, removed a large fatty tumor together with the left testicle which was embedded in it.2 A fatty tumor starting in the tissues of the cord will by its weight tend to gravitate downwards into the scrotum. These cases are not easily diagnosed: the mass would feel soft and doughy, resembling the feel of a piece of omentum; there would be no impulse on coughing; the most characteristic sensation would be that given by a fat-lobule. An exploratory incision would be harmless, and would clear up the diagnosis. The removal of the tumor before it has attained a large size is very desirable. M. Pelletan described a fatty tumor of the spermatic cord and upper part of the. scrotum under the title of “ hernie graisseuse.” Sir Henry Thompson removed a large adipose mass from a man 65 years old.3 The tissues of the scrotum were thickened, and contained the fat, which invaded not only the cellular tissue of the scrotum but that of the penis also. Fibroma of Scrotum.—Fibrous tumors of the scrotum are hard, tabulated, and inclosed in capsules, are not translucent nor fluctuant, and are freely movable under the skin, which is normal. When examined under the microscope, the section shows a fibrous or fibro-cellular structure. In some cases the tumors recur, resembling the recurrent fibroid tumors which are encountered in other parts of the body. These tumors have been met with of large size, especially in old men. They occur also in young people, and should be removed at an early date, before they have become adherent to the testicle. Sir James Paget4 mentions several cases, occurring in old men, in which the tumors were of slow growth and of large size, weighing as much as 24 pounds. Mr. C. Heath5 removed a fibrous tumor with the left testicle from a man who had been troubled with the growth for thirteen years. He had become reduced by loss of blood, and by discharge from an ulcerated track which extended from the skin to the interior of the tumor, now become hollowed out and sloughy. The growth, which was in the areolar tissue of the cord, was closely attached to the back of the epididymis and tunica vaginalis. Dr. Mott removed an enormous mass from a man aged 73; the scrotum was from twelve to fifteen times its ordinary bulk, and was filled with tumors of a stony hardness, from the size of a nutmeg to that of a large pea ; the tumors had all a very white appearance; the integument over two or three of the largest had ulcerated, and discharged fetid pus and a substance like mortar. The disease had lasted for twenty years; the operation was successful.6 In the King’s College Museum are two interesting representations of fibroma of the scrotum. One is a water-color drawing of a large, irregular, fibro-recurrent growth occupying the left side of the scrotum, which was removed several times by Sir William Fergusson. The other is a somewhat picturesque, pedunculated tumor, about the size of a large lemon, the inside of the tumor, as seen in section, being very white and fibrous, and contrasting strongly with the skin of the scrotum which covers it, and which is deeply pigmented. (Fig. 1359.) Examples ot the above kind of tumor are found growing from the labia of women, and by traction become pedunculated. 1 Hunterian Museum, No. 2468. 8 Lancet, vol. ii. p. 724. 1865. 3 Trans. Path. Soc. Loud., vol. vi. p. 232. 1 Lectures on Surgical Pathology, vol. ii. p. 112. 6 Trans. Path. Soc. Lond., vol. xvi. p. 183.