806 OVARIAN AND UTERINE TUMORS. True sarcoma—spindle-celled sarcoma—of the ovary, is yet more rare than pure fibroma; and, when it occurs, its existence can only be inferred from the more spongy feeling of the tumor, its rapidity of growth, the tenderness, on pressure, and the early impairment of the patient’s health. Otherwise its symptoms and diagnosis are the same as those of fibroma; but the treatment, when once a diagnosis is reached, should always be extirpation by lapar- otomy. It may affect both sides simultaneously, and is often accompanied by ascites. Carcinoma of the ovary is also exceedingly rare as a primary affection, but quite often it occurs as a secondary deposit. All the recognized forms of cancer have been found in these organs, but the encephaloid variety is perhaps the most frequent. It has been met with in all ages, even before puberty, and is, perhaps, more common in early than in advanced life. It often attacks both ovaries. Whatever its form, it may affect the ovary in two different ways: either as diffuse infiltration of the stroma, when the whole ovary seems changed into a cancerous mass covered by free peritoneum, or, less often, as cancerous nodules growing in healthy ovarian tissue. In the latter case, t\$o or three such small nodules will appear in the stroma, grow rapidly, and soon overwhelm the healthy stroma around them, and in this manner gradually turn the whole ovary into a nodular tumor. The starting point of cancer is always in the epithe- lial elements of the ovary. Besides these, mixed forms of cancer and true cystoma, or cysto-carcinoma,. also occur, and have been described by Schroeder, Wagner, Spiegelberg, and many others. In all its varieties ovarian carcinoma grows rapidly and tends to invade neighboring structures; either bursting through the envelope of the ovary into the abdominal cavity, or penetrating through the pedicle into the pelvic connective tissue. It irritates and inflames the peritoneum, provokes ascites, quickly sets up adhesions among the pelvic organs and intestines, and soon produces an immovable and complex mass in which the ovary is quite lost. The symptoms of this distressing disease are, in the beginning, only those of other solid tumors; afterwards, rapid increase of the tumor, successive impli- cation of both ovaries, ascites, oedema of the pudenda or lower extremities, pain of a more or less lancinating character, marked depreciation of general health and spansemia, with chronic peritonitis, all combine to indicate this most hopeless form of pelvic disease. The prognosis is obviously unfavorable. Death generally ensues from intestinal obstruction or from chronic peritonitis. The treatment is palliative. Early recognition of the malady, which is most difficult, will justify ovariotomy. Unhappily, when the diagnosis is clear, the disease has passed beyond the point at which extirpation is possible; and attention to the general health, with the use of tonics, stimulants, and anodynes, constitutes all our resources towards making the patient’s exist- ence less pitiful than it would be without them. It has been said that examples of the unmixed types of these solid ovarian growths are extremely rare. This is true. But the practitioner will often meet with cases of cysto-jibroma, cysto-sarcoma, or cysto-carcinoma of the ovary, where the merging of one type of neoplasm into the other, or the degenera- tion of a cystoma into semi-malignant disease, assumes every grade of variety. These tumors grow with rapidity, and at times attain an enormous size. They explain the accounts by early observers of immense growths of fibroma or sarcoma of the ovary, which are now known not to exist. They are very fatal, either with or without ovariotomy.