279 LITHOTOMY. above, behind the pubis. In these instances the employment of the curved forceps, inverted, is of great value, but considerable caution should be exer- cised as to the amount of force employed. The linger or the scoop as a lever, and hot water injections, all deserve trial. (e) Adherent Stone.—When the calculus is adherent to a flat surface, it either crumbles during removal, or may leave some particles still attached to the fungosities upon the site on which it rested. It should be extracted as in the case of faulty position due to spasmodic muscular action noted above ; but after it has been removed the scoop or currette should be freely used, to scrape off from the bladder both the adherent particles and the granu- lations in which they lie. The after-treatment of such a case calls for vesi- cal irrigation with a dilute nitric-acid solution, to guard against the re-pre- cipitation of a phosphatic layer upon the abraded surface. (d) Encysted Stone.—An encysted stone is either partly within the bladder and partly encysted, the neck of the cyst forming the obstacle to removal, or the orifice of the cyst is so small that to all intents and purposes the calculus is extra-vesical. For the former set of cases, after the part projecting into the bladder has been removed, or before, in some cases, the operator endeavors with his finger-nail, or a director, a searcher, a scoop, or other elevator, to dilate or slightly tear the neck of the cyst and work out the calculus. In this ma- noeuvre, pressure upon the hypogastrium or through the rectum may be of great assistance. If moderate manipulation fails to dislodge the stone, a curved, probe-pointed, long bistoury may be used with great caution upon the finger as a guide, to cut moderately the constricted edge of the neck of the cyst in one or more places. Such use of the knife involves risk, and it rests with the operator to decide according to the circumstances of each case whether to assume the risk, or to leave the stone in place and the ope- ration unfinished, or to resort to supra-pubic section. In the case of a large pouch connected with the bladder, and containing a small stone, the neck of the pouch may be dilated with the finger or small forceps, and the stone reached. When the stone is practically outside of the bladder, or in a dilated ureter, some operators prefer to leave it untouched. Thompson acted in this way in the presence of a stone in the ureter. It is plainly the surgeon’s duty to cut'scantily in such cases. 11. Wounding the Bladder from within.—Such an accident may occur through carelessness in the use of the staff or knife, or by seizing and tearing away a portion of the mucous membrane and muscular coat with the stone, in the grasp of the forceps. These mishaps are to be deplored and to be avoided by proper care, but the last-named accident, which is far from uncommon, is by no means always attended by serious consequences to the patient. 12. Foreign Body as Nucleus.—Generally the nucleus comes out with the entire stone; but the latter may crumble, leaving as a nucleus some object requiring especial care for its safe removal. 13. Faulty Seizure of the Stoyie.—This should be corrected by rotating the stone with the finger passed through the wound, or into the rectum, or by dropping the stone entirely and attempting again to catch it in a narrower diameter. 14. Multiple Calcidi.—The first stone extracted is examined for facets. If they are found, it is certain that other stones are present; but in any case, whether the first calculus be facetted or not, search should be made to decide that the bladder is empty before the operation terminates. A partition may exist, on the other side of which more calculous material may be found. Collot operated upon a bladder from one side of which he extracted four and from the other eleven calculi.