(663) INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE FEMALE GENITALS. BY THEOPHILUS PARVIN, M.D., PROFESSOR OF OBSTETRICS AND DISEASES OF WOMEN AND CHILDREN IN THE JEFFERSON MEDICAL COLLEGE, PHILADELPHIA. Modes of Exploration. Touch and Sight are the chief means in the diagnosis of diseases and in- juries of the female organs of generation. The former in most cases precedes, and in some enables a diagnosis to be made without resorting to, the latter; in its most common form, examination by the finger passed into the vagina, it is painless, and is less repulsive to the patient, so that she more readily consents to it than to a visual examination, whether this be made without or with a speculum. Touch in its widest signification includes not only an internal examination, usually made by the right or left index finger introduced through one of the three openings in the pelvic floor—vagina, rectum, urethra—but also that form of external examination commonly called abdominal palpation, and the different combinations of two or more of these, the most important being abdomino-vaginal, or that which is generally known as bimanual examina- tion. It also embraces the use of the uterine sound or probe, for this instru- ment has its chief value in rendering parts too remote from, or otherwise inaccessible to, the finger, more or less readily explored, thus giving a mediate instead of immediate touch. By sight, or inspection, we learn the condition of the surface of the abdomi- nal wall, that of the external organs of generation, and of adjacent parts, and, if the fingers be used to separate the labia, or, by pressure through the rectum, to evert the vagina—or if the patient be urged to strain, to “ bear down”—a part of the vaginal wall is exposed. A speculum is used to bring in view the vagina, especially its upper part, and the vaginal portion of the uterine neck. Additional means of examination are given by mensuration; abdominal auscultation and percussion; artificial dilatation of the uterine canal; artificial prolapsus of the uterus, effected by seizing the neck of the uterus with a tena- culum or tenaculum-forceps, and then exerting moderate and continuous trac- tion until it is brought near or quite to the vulvar opening ; and aspiration of liquid cysts, or exploratory puncture, to determine, by the obvious characters of the fluid thus obtained, or by subsequent microscopic or chemical exami- nation, its true nature. A fragment of a new growth, too, artificially or spontaneously detached, may be submitted to microscopic examination, and in some cases exploratory abdominal incision is necessary.