OVARIAN AND UTERINE TUMORS. 796 value in a few cases by enabling us to ascertain the aortic bruit, which cystic tumors indistinctly transmit, while solid formations, like fecal impactions or omental growths, conceal it. This statement, however, requires modification in the case of uterine fibroids. Vaginal touch is a most important means of diagnosing ovarian cysts, and, in recent growths, is indispensable. While confined to the pelvis, the out- lines of a small cyst can often be accurately mapped out. from the vagina. Here the sensation imparted to the finger is that of a round, elastic mass, to the right or left of the uterus, its perfectly smooth surface easily distinguish- ing it from the irregular, nodular outline of a fibroid ; it is less dense and re- sistant than the latter, readily separable from the womb and not moving with it, and conjoined palpation• gives a distinct sense of fluctuation when the abdominal walls are thin. This manipulation is .painless unless inflamma- tion has occurred in the cyst-wall, or around it; but, as a rule, it is only in the latter case that the patient is apt to apply for advice at so early a period. Afterwards, when rapidly accumulating fluid distends the cyst-walls, the posterior cul-de-sac is pushed downward, and either in the vagina or rectum fluctuation is rendered distinct by percussion over any part of the tumor. In no form of ascites is the fluctuation in the cul-de-sac comparable to that caused by a tight cyst. Rectal touch being practically the same, and merely corroborative of the method last described, need not be separately considered ; but in thorough clinical examinations it should never be omitted. The employment of the uterine sound is also most important. By it alone can we ascertain the depth of the womb, the nature of its contents, if there be any, and its mobility in relation to the tumor. The rule is uniform that, in ovarian or parovarian cysts, the normal depth of the uterus is unaltered ; in cases of fibro-cyst or uterine fibroid, it is very considerably increased. Ex- ceptions to this doubtless occur in practice, and to the expert in ovarian disease the sound is not always a necessity ; but the general surgeon should never omit it. At the same time, the utmost caution and delicacy should be observed in its use, and all rough manipulation should be avoided. I can recall more than one case where its repeated use by different consultants has caused serious injury before an intended ovariotomy. In the Woman’s Hospital, in New York, it is customary to request that the employment of the sound shall be omitted, if practicable, in a consultation. Aspiration of the cyst, by simple puncture or by paracentesis, is most im- portant in cases where palpation and percussion fail to distinguish between a supposed cyst and ascites, or between a cystoma and encysted fluid of other origin. Here examination, chemically and by microscopical tests, is of the utmost aid in diagnosis; and it should never be omitted in these rare in- stances. Various aspirators have been devised for use in these cases, notably Emmet’s,1 an ingenious modification of Dieulafoy’s large instrument, which is cumbrous and expensive. But since Dr. Walker, of New York, proposed, in 1870, to use the simple hypodermic syringe, this alone is resorted to when only a small amount of fluid is desired. A syringe, rather larger than that in common use, holding from a drachm to an ounce, is fitted to a fine hypo- dermic needle, and with this a sufficient amount of fluid may be with- drawn from several points of the cyst. But if the fluid be colloid, this effort is useless. Then a larger needle is fitted to either Dieulafoy’s or Emmet’s aspirator, and the fluid withdrawn by more powerful suction. With either of these instruments a small cyst may be entirely emptied of its contents. 1 Principles and Practice of Gynaecology, p. 686. 1884.