(901) SCROFULO-TUBERCULOUS AND OTHER STRUCTURAL DISEASES OF BONES. BY EUGENE VINCENT, M.D., PROFESSOR AGREGE, SURGEON-IN-CHIEF OF THE HOSPITAL OF LA CHARITE, LYONS. TRANSLATED BY CHARLES W. DULLES, M.D., SURGEON FOR OUT-PATIENTS TO THE HOSPITAL OF THE UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA, AND TO THE PRESBYTERIAN HOSPITAL IN PHILADELPHIA. SCROFULO-TUBERCULOUS AFFECTIONS OF BONES. Under this title I shall consider together scrofula and tubercle of the hones, because their pathological histology tends more and more to become similar, and because it is impossible to give a sketch of them separately with- out falling into frequent repetitions. Scrofula is only a mitigated mani- festation, initial and usually external, of tuberculosis, and it leads to the latter more or less rapidly. The forms of chronic osteitis which appear under the influence of these two phases of evolution of the same diathesis, or general tendency of the organism, have not well-defined characteristics which differentiate them exactly. If the general appearance of the patient reveals the traits attributed to scrofula, or to tuberculosis, the osteitis is spoken of as scrofulous or tuberculous, although this distinction may not be fully warranted either by the symptoms or by the pathological anatomy of the affection. Even the microscope does not assist in this separation, for it reveals^ in most sections of these inflamed bones, both embryonic tubercles (scrofidomcita of Grancher) and fully developed tubercles (gray granulations of Laennec). If the embryonic or adult tubercle, if the bacillus or the zooglear masses are what characterize tuberculosis in process of evolution (scrofula) as well as that which has already undergone evolution (tuberculosis), my description ought to include not only the subject of tuberculous affections of the bones— a chapter created by X el a ton—hut also caries, with its varieties, and spirt a - ventosa, lesions in which these neoplastic or parasitic elements are found. I ought also to mention ossifluent abscesses,1 sessile or by congestion, as well as white swellings (fungous osteo-arthritis), which are extremely common conse- quences of the localization in the hones of tuberculosis in its different stages of evolution. Historical and General Considerations.—The history of scrofulo-tnber- culous osteopathies is not very old. Its first page was written by Nelaton, 1 [Ossifluent abscesses are such as originate or “flow” from bone-disease; sessile abscesses are those which are found in contact with the diseased bone, and abscesses by congestion those which occur at a greater or less distance.]