1017 CLUB-FOOT. verse tarsal joint, the other from elevation of the heel by the unbalanced action of the extensor muscles. The degree of each condition present varies considerably in different cases of the deformity : in one foot, the contraction in the sole is the chief feature; in another, the elevation of the heel is the most prominent symptom ; it has therefore been proposed to distinguish between the two forms of talipes equinus by limiting the term equinus to the latter state of distortion, and to apply to the former the title of talipes plantaris.1 I have not adopted this method of nomenclature, because the two conditions are nearly always associated together, although one may be greatly in excess of the other, so that, to be strictly accurate, the term equino-plantaris would have to be used in the majority of cases; this would fail to convey any clear definition of the exact nature of the deformity, or to point out which was the chief characteristic of any par- ticular case. There is, however, a state of distortion of the foot which consists of contraction of the sole without any depression of the forepart of the foot, and with no interference with the position of the foot on the leg; it distinctly differs from talipes equinus in that the heel and toes are on the same level, and the only detect is increased deepening of the arch. This deformity is by no means an uncommon one, and from the fact that in its early stage it rarely attracts notice, unless the heightened arch is welcomed as a point of beauty, it is often allowed to advance until the subject becomes seriously crippled. As this condition cannot he classified with any of the other recognized varie- ties of club-foot, I have employed the term talipes arcuatus to distinguish the deformity, and to indi- cate the nature of the distortion. An extreme instance of talipes arcuatus, occurring in a boy nine years old, is illustrated in Fig. 1470; the foot was inches long, and so mucli contracted in the sole that the centre of the arch was 1^ inches above the level of the heel and toes, whilst the middle of the outer border of the foot was raised f of an inch ; the instep was also very high ; the movements of flexion and ex- tension at the ankle-joint were quite normal. Although talipes arcuatus seldom presents such a marked degree of distortion as is shown in this case, it is nevertheless an unmistakable condition of deformity ; when brought under the notice of the surgeon, relief is generally sought from the dis- comfort produced by a row of corns along the front part of the foot, and from the occurrence of pain at the transverse tarsal joint; an examination of the foot reveals that the arch is abnormally long and high, so that the treading surface is much reduced in space. The deficiency in this latter respect is shown in the accompanying figures (Figs. 1471 and 1472) of two feet of the same patient, the right foot being affected with talipes arcuatus, and the left being normal; the loss of surface in the right foot is at the front of the heel, at the centre and inner border of the middle of the sole, and at the forepart of the foot, which is wider from side to side, but narrower from before backwards; the foot is also considerably shortened. The source of the deformity is not easy to discover, because the cases are seldom seen until the contraction has been present for some years. It is more frequently met with amongst the better class of people, and not 1 The name talipes cavus has also been used to distinguish this condition of deformity ; but the word cavus is by no means a good one, as it signifies hollow like a tube. Fig. 1470.