TRAUMATIC LESIONS OF THE URETHRA. 439 this variety of very tight, resistant stricture, that the name of cicatricial contraction has been given. We shall return to it hereafter. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of rupture of the urethra is generally easy enough to establish. Great importance should be attached to the history, and every victim of accidents such as I have indicated, should be suspected of having a rupture of the urethra, especially if he present one or several of the symptoms which characterize this lesion: hemorrhage from the urethra, reten- tion of urine, perineal tumor. One may hesitate sometimes between an inter- stitial rupture, without laceration of the mucous membrane and consequently without hemorrhage, and a simple contusion of the perineum, especially as the latter is sometimes accompanied by retention of urine of spasmodic ori- gin. In such a case the diagnosis must be reserved. When once the fact of a rupture is established, it is important to deter- mine its location. The point in the course of the canal where gentle pres- sure causes the greatest pain, and the presence of an ecchymosis at this point, often furnish a satisfactory notion in regard to this, especially in cases in which the contusion has been rather limited. On the other hand, direct exploration, practised with the bougie-a-boule, permits of recognizing, with great precision, both the exact location of the rupture and the point at which the focus of an interstitial rupture has thrust away the mucous membrane and effaced the calibre of the urethra. Unfortunately, the introduction of a catheter often has its dangers, and it should always be practised, therefore, with extreme gentleness. In cases of complete rupture, the symptoms are so well marked that the diagnosis of the lesion, so to speak, establishes itself. I should add that the results of autopsies and of experiments made on the cadaver, make it possi- ble nowadays to infer almost with certainty, from the cause of a rupture, its exact location. Thus it is proper to conclude that, in every case in which a contusion of the perineum causes a rupture of the urethra, this rupture is sit- uated in the bulbar portion of the canal; and that in all ruptures of the urethra which follow a fracture of the pelvis, the membranous portion alone is involved. Nevertheless, after a fracture of the pelvis, it is not always easy to know whether there is a rupture of the urethra, or a laceration of the bladder in the vicinity of its neck. Rupture of the urethra, however, is accompanied by retention of urine, and by the presence of a tumor in the hypogastrium, formed by the distended bladder. In rupture of the bladder, nothing of this sort is observed. Prognosis.—The immediate prognosis varies essentially with the nature of the lesion, and from this stand-point the various cases may be arranged in three categories: cases of slight gravity, cases of moderate gravity, and cases of decided gravity. Cases of slight gravity correspond to ruptures of the first degree, and to those of the second in which the lesion consists of a simple fraying of the mucous membrane, with complete integrity of the fibrous coat and of the subjacent tissues. From the clinical point of view they are charac- terized by the absence or smallness of the hemorrhage from the urethra, the ready though painful micturition, the immediate success of catheteriza- tion, and the absence of a tumor in the perineum, or the presence of a simple collar at the level of the point of contusion. In such cases it is usual to observe a gradual disappearance of all the symptoms, and a rapid progress to recovery. Quite often, however, a primary or secondary communication is established between the urethra and the subjacent point of injury, and the formation of an abscess follows. But this complication, which is at any rate not very serious, has no effect except to delay recovery. In cases of moderate gravity the mucous membrane is ruptured transversely, but only for a part of the circumference of the canal, and ordinarily at its