60 INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTION. etc.—the only hope of cure commonly lies in prompt operative interference, before the development of general peritonitis. Prognosis of Chronic Obstruction.—The least dangerous form of chronic obstruction is that caused by fecal accumulation, which can ordinarily be removed without much difficulty. Even in cases of intestinal stricture, relief can often be afforded and the evil day warded off for a long while by the regulation of the diet and the judicious use of cathartics or enemata. The most unfavorable cases are those of chronic invagination, in which there is comparatively little chance of a cure by sloughing, and in which, therefore, if efforts at reduction by inflation, manipulation, etc., fail, operative measures become necessary. Treatment of Intestinal Obstruction. There is probably no class of cases so habitually mismanaged by otherwise intelligent practitioners, as that under consideration. This is partly owing to the fact that, these cases being comparatively rare, few physicians have the opportunity, or take the trouble, to make themselves familiar with their pathology, and hence, when forced to assume the responsibility of their treat- ment, administer remedies in the most empirical manner, and use their weapons, as it were, in the dark, and quite as often, therefore, to their patient’s detriment as to their advantage. Thus, I have known frictions with ice to be persistently but, of course, fruitlessly employed in a case of intestinal stricture, and a patient with manifest intussusception to be tortured with repeated doses of calomel and jalap. Another reason for the unscientific way in which these cases are often treated, is that, since their prognosis is universally acknowl- edged to be very unfavorable, practitioners are tempted, on the» “ anceps remedium melius nullo” principle, to use heroic remedies which are certainly not harmless, and which are actually more likely to kill than to cure. In former times metallic mercury, and afterwards croton oil, were the battering- rams with which physicians tried to burst through the obstructions by which their patient’s lives were threatened, and I very much fear that at the present day, the hasty resort to operative measures, encouraged by the much-vaunted modern triumphs of “abdominal surgery,” is responsible for the loss of a good many lives which might perhaps be saved by more rational if less bril- liant treatment. I speak strongly upon this point, because I feel a certain degree of personal responsibility in the matter, an article published by myself some twelve years ago1 having had a share in popularizing the operation of abdominal section in these cases. I would strongly urge tha t the surgeon should not, in any case <of intestinal obstruction, open the abdomen, unless he has been able to form some distinct notion of what he expects to find, or at least until he has been able to satisfy himself that there is positive mechanical occlusion, and that no less dangerous operation will suffice lor its relief. Treatment of Acute Obstruction.—From my own experience, I am Jed to believe that a large proportion of the cases of acute intestinal obstruction met with in practice are really examples of enteritis, and that if they were recognized as such, and promptly treated, the number of recoveries would be much larger than it is at present. Remembering that, as Sir Thomas Watson 1 On laparotomy, or abdominal section, as a remedy for intussusception ; with tables showing the results of the operation in cases of this affection, and in those of other forms of acute obstruc- tion of the bowels. (American Journal of the Medical Sciences, July, 1874, pp. 48, 285.)