ORTHOPAEDIC SURGERY. 1032 necessitated the intermission of treatment; unfolding of the dis- tortion of the foot itself was accomplished in seven months, which, considering the extreme condition of deformity present and the age of the patient, may be regarded as a satisfactory rate of progress. The result of treatment is shown in Figure 1485. Excision of Tarsal Bones in Talipes Varus.—The me- thod of treating talipes varus which has been described, is that generally followed by those who have studied the practice of orthopaedic surgery; some slight differ- ences of opinion exist upon certain details—when to employ tenotomy, the construction of the mechanical appliance used, the respective value of instrumental and physiological methods of treatment—on such points as these unanimity is not to be expected; but the broad principles of treatment are universally accepted, and hundreds of cases could be brought forward to prove that talipes varus, when thus treated, is capable of relief in whatever condition it may present itself. Successful ject of Figs. 1483, 1484. reduction ot the deformity can, however, only be ob- tained by careful observance of the established rules of practice; even at the present day, it is no uncommon circumstance to meet with cases in which tenotomy lias been adopted, but in which the mechanical after-treatment Has been entirely neglected, the patient being allowed to walk about without any support within a week or so of the operation, with the natural result of re-establishing the deformity. Again, cases which have been correctly and successfully treated are, from neglect of the patient or his parents to continue the use of mechanical treatment for a sufficient length of time, found to pass into a condition of relapse. The occurrence of relapse under such circumstances has raised a doubt in the minds of some surgeons as to the efficiency of orthopaedic treatment, and more radical measures have been resorted to; it has been said that certain cases are not amenable to the recog- nized rules of practice, and for such exsection of a portion of the tarsus has been employed. Excision of the cuboid bone, in severe cases of talipes varus, was first sug- gested by Dr. Little f his suggestion was little more than a speculative ob- servation, and this distinguished authority has since expressed his disap- proval of the adoption of such an operation. The late Mr. Solly, in the year 1854, acting upon the above suggestion, excised the cuboid bone in an adult affected with severe varus, but the result was not satisfactory. Mr. Lund, in 1872,1 2 excised the astragalus in a boy aged seven years, suffering from varus of both feet. The treatment employed before this operation was performed, had consisted in the application of splints and elastic bands, and forcible manipu- lation under chloroform. The operation was had recourse to under the belief that the chief obstacle to reduction of the deformity was the displace- ment of the cup of the scaphoid from the head of the astragalus ; the case, after a prolonged course of treatment, resulted in the production of a toler- ably straight foot, but with very limited movement at the ankle-joint and with persistence of some elevation of the heel. Mr. Davy has removed por- tions of the tarsus in several cases of club-foot, amongst them one of a child aged sixteen months,3 an age at which few surgeons would pronounce varus to be incurable by tenotomy and mechanical treatment. Fig. 1485. 1 Deformities of the Human Frame, p. 305. London, 1853. 2 Proceedings of the Medical Society of London, vol. iv. 1879. 2 Ibid.