OSTEOMALACIA AND FRAGILITAS OSSIUM. 965 lacunar erosion, as they are in every inflammation of the bones. (Compare with Fig. 1457, osteo- malacia.) The marrow which they contain is remarkable for its rich- ness in fibrillar cells, which indicates its tendency to stable organization. Chemical analysis made by Dr. Russel has been almost negative. In eases examined in future, it will be well to ascertain before decalcifying with acids (which Mr. Butlin failed to do), if the eroded edges of the Haversian canals are decalcified by the mere fact of the disease, as Rindfleisch has shown to be the case in malignant osteomalacia. This is a capital point. Since his first paper, Paget has added seven new cases to the five which he had previously published.1 In 1881, Mr. Treves2 published an account of a case of osteitis deformans in a woman, who had had twelve children and two miscarriages, and several of whose children had been affected with rachitis. This woman had manifested for a year the signs of the bone-disease, when she had her twelfth child, which had a grave form of rachitis and died at the age of three years and a half. I have not been able to procure two papers on this subject; that of Symonds3 4 and that of Ellinwoodd Prof. Ollier has seen several cases of this kind. He has mentioned to me, among others, the case of a woman affected with local osteomalacia (as lie calls this affection) situated in the tibia, which he has had under treatment since 1866. Diagnosis.—I think it useless to give the differential diagnosis from the ordinary forms of hyperostosis; there are so many differences between them and osteitis deformans that confusion is not possible when the latter is known. The preservation of the general health for years, the slow curva- ture of the long bones, which always remain capable of resisting the mus- cular contractions and of supporting the weight of the body, are the characteristics which distinguish osteitis deformans from all the known pro- cesses of hyperostosis, and there are, in fact, only two diseases with which it can be confounded: rachitis and osteomalacia. Rachitis ought, in my opinion, to be entirely eliminated; since rachitis is a disease of the bones in the process of growth, and osteitis deformans is a dis- ease of formed bone, and occurs in adults. A comparison can be made only with osteomalacia, which is also a disease of formed bone. Paget mentions, as a difference, that, “in osteomalacia, the walls of the bone become exceed- ingly delicate and thinned, as in acute atrophy, and when they bend it is not with a regular curve, but with an elbow or angular fracture.” He says, finally, that on account of the only characteristic which they have in com- mon, that is to say, osteoporosis of the cranium, these three diseases—rachitis, osteomalacia, and osteitis deformans—are constantly confounded in museums. Nature.—I shall not venture to take up the question of the nature of this disease, as the collected cases are not yet numerous enough, and as I have not had opportunity to examine personally bones thus affected. Yet the micro- 1 Additional cases of Osteitis Deformans (loc. cit., 1882). 2 Trans. Path. Soc. London, 1881. 3 A case of osteitis deformans (Guy’s Hosp. Rep. London, 1881). 4 Osteitis deformans (Western Lancet. San Francisco, 1883). Fig. 1462. Histological preparation of one of the tibia;, to show the eroded outlines of the enlarged canals of Havers. Oc. 3, obj. 7. X 200- (After Paget.)