12 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE OESOPHAGUS. bring the axis of the mouth and pharynx as nearly as practicable in a direct line with that of the oesophagus. The mistake is sometimes made of attribu- ting olyspnoea to the presence of a foreign body in the air-passage, under which circumstances a fruitless tracheotomy has been occasionally performed, when the foreign body has been detected in the oesophagus on examination after death.1 Careful exploration of the oesophagus during life should prevent , such a mistake. It is possible, also, that late symptoms of suffocation may be attributed wholly to prolonged disease of the air-passages, when really due to compression by a foreign body in the gullet.2 Prognosis.—It is only exceptionally that death by suffocation from pres- sure upon the air-passages ensues before surgical help can be procured. Death by laryngeal spasm3 sometimes occurs. The prognosis is favorable in the majority of cases in which prompt measures are taken to withdraw or displace the impacted foreign body. A113’ injury already sustained by the oesophagus, or inflicted upon the organ in the surgeon’s manipulations, will serve to render the prognosis proportionately more serious. The patient, having safely passed over the immediate danger, is kept under observation for a few days, during which he is treated on the principles laid down for the management of oesophagitis and wounds of the oesophagus of internal origin, when, if no manifestations of severe injury remain, recovery may be confidently anticipated. The prognosis is grave in cases of foreign body retained in the oesophagus for more than a few days, although such bodies sometimes remain appa- rently or actually quiescent for periods varying from days to many months4 or years. Inflammation, abscess, ulceration, and perforation of the oesophagus and of adjacent structures, are the sequebe to be apprehended. Death by abscess5 occurs in some instances. In others, a foreign body makes its way to the exterior through an abscess, leaving a fistula of the oesophagus. More frequently, however, the abscess closes on removal of the foreign body, whether the removal has been spontaneous or operative. Should the abscess or ulcera- tion be located anteriorly, perforation may take place into the trachea, when the escape of the foreign body into the air-tube may be followed by imme- diate death from suffocation, or by slow death from exhaustion due to the resulting inflammatory processes. Should, however, the foreign body still remain in the oesophagus, a tracheo-cesophageal or broncho-oesophageal fistula will be established, with all the dangers due to a wound of the oesophagus. Serious hemorrhage may take place when the foreign suostance becomes dislodged by ulceration, though, as a rule, recovery is prompt after such dis- lodgment. Sometimes stricture is produced as a result of cicatrization. Death by hemorrhage may occur in consequence of erosions communicating with the aorta6 (Fig. 1163), or with other important vessels.7 Such perfora- tions are not uncommon.8 They have occurred as early as the third day.9 1 Cases cited by Desault (CEuvres, t. ii. p. 261) ; by Poulet ; by Roberts (Bryant’s Manual for the Practice of Surgery, p. 451. Phila. 1882). 2 Cauchois, Bull, de la Soc. Anatomique, p. 44, 1872 ; cited by Poulet. 3 Bryant (op. cit., p. 451) records an instance in a two-year old child, with a piece of pudding impacted in the oesophagus. 4 A set of teeth has been ejected fifteen months after the accident (Hayem, case cited by Poulet). 6 Vanderwarker, New York Med. Jour., April, 1871, p. 453. 6 Begin, case cited by Poulet (op. cit., vol. i. p. 75) ; retention for fourteen days of a six-franc piece at the level of the bifurcation of the bronchi. 7 Erichsen, Science and Art of Surgery, vol. i. ; piece of gutta percha which had remained imbedded in the oesophagus unsuspected for six months. 8 Lavacherie, Memoire sur les corps etrangers de l’cesophage (Mem. de l’Acad. Royale de Med. de Belgique, 1848) ; Martin, Corps etrangers de Poesophage, These de Paris, 1868 ; Poulet, op. oit., vol. i p. 91 ; and numbers of individual observations. 9 Spry, Trans. Path. Soc. Loud., vol. iv. 1853.