INJURIES AND DISEASES OF TEE FEMALE GENITALS. 688 2 Archiv fur Gynakologie, 1884. ing to that on the left side at which it entered. Koeberle freely divides the anus posteriorly, the incision extending beyond the circular fibres and in- volving the connective tissue behind the rectum. Sehroeder advises poste- rior subcutaneous section of the sphincter. After-treatment.—By many it is held to be important to tie the knees to- gether, to catheteiize the bladder at stated intervals, and to keep the bowels, confined for a week or more. By no probable movement of the limbs can there be any strain upon the perineal tissues now sewed together—tissues that have undergone the very great stretching necessary for the passage of the child— and therefore the bandage about the knees is unnecessary; moreover, the bandage increases the discomfort of the patient, helps to imprison the lochial discharge in the vagina, and is thus injurious. Hildebranclt objects to the use of the catheter because vesical catarrh is very liable to result, and thinks it better for the urine to be discharged spontaneously, if possible. Once in twenty-four hours, the vagina should be carefully washed out with a warm antiseptic injection. On the third day, the bowels may be moved by castor oil or by “ liquorice powder,” assisted by an enema of warm water or of olive oil; subsequently an evacuation should be had at least once in forty-eight hours.1 The diet may be of peptonized milk, broths or soups containing a little rice, milk-toast, and eggs slightly cooked. The common practice is to remove the sutures from the eighth to the tenth day ; Schatz,2 however, advises leaving them for two weeks, and this is probably the better plan. For two weeks at least the patient should remain in bed. II. Perineoplasty.—Two preliminary conditions are important for the success of a perineoplasty: first, the patient’s health must be good, and, second, the bowels must be free from any accumulation of fecal matter. In order that the latter condition may be secured, it is advisable for the patient to have a free movement each day for a week before that fixed for the operation. Thomas directs the use of a compound cathartic or compound aloetic or rhubarb pill', or a saline cathartic, every twelve hours ; Emmet advises twenty grains off'inspissated ox-gall each day, and every other night a purgative of rhubarb and carbonate of sodium, and, as an additional precaution, especially when the patient has been careless in her habits, a large enema of hot water in which fresh ox-gall has been stirred, given with the patient in the knee-chest position. The patient is anaesthetized, and is placed in the lithotomy position, while an assistant on each side holds the lower limbs strongly flexed on the body, and the hips are brought close to the edge of the table and strictly on a line with it, for if these be oblique, there is danger that the operator will make the denudation of tissue unequal on the two sides. Supposing the rent to be incomplete, the operation as usually done embraces, first, the preparing on each side of two raw surfaces having very nearly the form of spherical triangles, which of course must be equal, so that when the sutures are fastened these two surfaces may accurately fit together. The surfaces may 1 In two cases upon which I have recently successfully operated for rupture of the perineum involving the anal sphincter, the following plan was followed in securing every day or every other day during the after-treatment an evacuation of the rectum without risk to that muscle : A saline laxative was given, and two or three hours afterward a rectal tube was introduced, and through it successive injections of warm water were administered, not more than half a pint being used at a time, and after each injection the water and feces being discharged through the tube. By means of several injections all intestinal masses were softened, and the bowel was completely emptied without there being the least stretching of the anal sphincter. This method requires considerable time and some care and patience, but I believe that it is worthy of a trial at the hands of others.