950 SCROFULO-TUBERCULOUS AND OTHER STRUCTURAL DISEASES OF BONES. transparent, and have usually lost their shape and their normal thickness, bend, are curved upon themselves like a horn, and have a groove, a fossa, which is directed from above downwards, and which is ordinarily single, though sometimes bifurcated. The cotyloid cavities are pressed back by the femurs, and are pushed upwards, forwards, and inwards, thus approaching one another and the promontory of the sacrum. The horizontal rami of the pubic bones approach each other and become almost parallel, leaving between them a single narrow interval at the upper part, which is not much larger below where the ascending rami of the iscliia and the descending rami of the pubic bones have undergone the same change of position, giving the symphysis the shape of a sort of duck’s bill protruding in front of the pelvic ring. The pubic arch thus disappears, and is replaced by a kind of deep and narrow fissure into which the finger penetrates with difficulty.” The tuberosities of the ischia are forced far inwards; the sacrum is, as it were, doubled upon itself in the vertical and transverse directions; the lumbar part of the spinal column, in consequence of the descent of the pro- montory, forms a prominence which in its turn narrows the superior strait. “Thus doubled up and pushed in upon itself, the pelvis presents a strange appearance, which has led to its being compared to a three-cornered hat.” Every part is affected by the deformity—the superior strait, the inferior strait, the cavity—and often in such proportions that the diameters are re- duced to an unimaginable narrowness. As Depaul has well said, the pelvis has a rumpled appearance. It is not necessary for a woman to remain upright or seated in order that the osteomalacic pelvis shall assume these characteristics. The lateral decubitus, alternating from one side to the other, produces an effect analo- gous to that of the upright position, by pushing in the trochanters. JSTor is it in women only that the pelvis is deformed; it becomes deformed also in men; but only in women has osteomalacia been seen to be localized in the bony pelvis. (g) Upper Limbs.—The humerus is curved forwards by the action of the deltoid ; in some cases it has taken the shape of the letter Z, in others that of S ; fractures and flexions combine to bring about such deformities. The bones of the forearm are more rarely deformed. The bones of the hand have been seen to be spongy and fragile; but I do not find a deformity of the end of the fingers reported except in the case of Czerny, published by Landgendorff and Mommsen ; the ungual phalanges were club-shaped, and the nails were three times as broad as they were long. (h) Bones of the Lower Limbs.—Like the Other bones, these are deformed by exaggeration of their normal curves; the femur curves forwards and out- wards, the tibia becomes twisted and also curves forwards, the feet are ex- tended by pressure of the bedclothes, and are shortened. To these deformi- ties, due to softening and weakness of the bones, are joined those which result from fractures, to which the lower are more exposed than the upper limbs. So many influences may affect these deformities that they actually baffle description. As an example of an extreme type, I reproduce (Fig. 1455), a picture of the femme Supiot, from the drawing of Morand fils, a glance at which will tell more than a description which would always be incomplete in spite of its length, because it could not include all the features of all the isolated cases. 2. Structure.—Bones affected with osteomalacia present on section an appear- ance which varies according to the degree of the affection. At the beginning their structure appears but little altered, but afterwards the spongy portions rarefy progressively, and the compact portions become filled with alveoli. The enlarged spaces of the spongy tissue of the bone lose their normal medulla,