LATERAL CURVATURE OF THE SPINE. 1059 exhibited to take off the small pads which close the wounds; these may be taken from the fingers on about the fourth or fifth day, and from the palm on the seventh or eighth day. On the fourth or fifth day after the operation, mechanical treatment must be commenced. The construction of the instrument to be used will be best understood from the accompanying illustration ; it is attached to the back of the hand, and consists of a plate cover- ing the dorsum, to which are attached steel pieces with extension-racks corres- ponding to the joints of the fingers ; straps for fixing the appliance are also added. The extension must be carried on as rapidly as possible, hut great care must be exercised not to cause sloughing of the skin by using too much pressure; it is just at this point that the mechanical ability of the sur- geon will be tested: if he proceed too hastily, the skin will give way, and time will be lost in waiting for the sloughs thus caused to heal; whilst if too slow progress be made, recontraction will take place before the fingers are fully extended. In an ordinary case, such as that here being considered, the normal extension of the fingers should be obtained in about three weeks. After this stage is reached, the instru- ment should still be worn for a time, or a lighter form of apparatus may be substituted for it. Some stiffness of the fingers will remain after the con- traction is overcome, but this is soon removed by soaking the hand in hot water, and rubbing it freely with neat’s-foot oil or some similar lubricant. When more than two fingers are badly contracted, it is desirable to commence treatment by operating on only a portion of the hand; thus, if the whole of the hand is affected, the thumb and index finger may first be freed, and the remaining fingers treated after an interval of two weeks. Dupuytren’s contraction, like all other forms of contraction with which we have to deal, will relapse if the section of the shortened bands is not thoroughly effected at the first operation, or if the mechanical treatment is not systematically proceeded with. If carefully carried through, the treat- ment of these cases always yields a most satisfactory result. An interesting feature is the very thorough manner in which nature removes the hardened and contracted tissues; not only does the fascia become reduced to its normal condition, but the thickening of the skin also disappears, a result which ia probably due to the free division of the tissues which is involved in the operation. Fig. 1501. Instrument for Dupuytren’s finger-contraction. (After Adams.) Lateral Curvature of the Spine. The subject of lateral curvature of the spine is one upon which much has been written, and upon which many different opinions have been expressed. The etiology of this deformity has never been clearly made out, a failure which has been ascribed to the fact that, as the disease is one essentially of a chronic nature, the investigator has to encounter the serious difficulty of being unable to obtain for necroscopic examination a spine in the early stage of the affection; whether or no this explanation be correct, the fact remains that no two writers on this subject will be found in complete accord, and as a result of this diversity of opinion upon the causation of the deformity, an equal want of harmony exists with reference to its treatment.