INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. 544 In epithelioma the growth is in the tissues, which it invades, whereas in non- malignant vegetations it is on the surface, from which it may be readily shaved off with a knife. Before operation, a portion of the growth should be re- moved and submitted to microscopic examination. Amputation of the Penis.-—Of this operation, Sir William Fergusson1 writes that he knows of no amputation which has been more successful in its primary results, but that in general, in cancerous-looking affections, the dis- ease has returned, either in the organ, or more frequently in the glands of the groin, and has ultimately destroyed the patient; and further, that if certain sores which may be termed pseudo-cancerous, were treated by excision at an early date, instead of by improperly directed constitutional means, there would be a better account of these diseases of the penis than surgery can at present boast of. He had seen admirable results from excisions—longitudinal ampu- tations as they might be called—of the glans penis. Mr. A. Pearce Gould2 amputated the penis of a man, aged 75, for melanotic epitheli- oma, a very rare condition, which had first appeared five years before. Four or five raised black nodules, the size of peas, were ranged along the corona, while further for- ward on the dorsum of the glans was a much larger, black, fungating mass, which quite obscured the part. Two or three smaller tumors of the same color were seen higher up the penis, not projecting from the surface. No glandular enlargement could be detected. A few deeply pigmented warts and molluscous growths were scattered over his back ; these were congenital. Under the microscope, the superficial epithelium could be traced growing downward, and becoming pigmented and continuous with the tissue of the deeper parts of the tumor. In Mr. Marcus Beck’s case of fibrous tumor of the penis, the growth, which recurred two years after it had been removed, sprang from the corpus cavernosum and necessi- tated amputation of the penis. It was as large as a fowl’s egg, irregular, nodular, very hard, and free from pain. A microscopic section showed numerous oval nuclei. Amputation by Ligature.—Amputation lias been proposed and practised by tying a silk cord around the penis, at the spot selected for its removal, behind the disease. The ligature is tightened from time to time as it cuts through the tissue and becomes loose. This operation is tedious and painful, and is attended with suppuration and the presence of a sloughing mass which is likely to cause purulent infection. Hemorrhage is prevented, but there is a danger of cystitis. Amputation by the Ecraseur.—A sound having been passed into the bladder, the wire of the ecraseur is fixed in place by passing it behind a needle thrust through the body of the penis. The instrument is worked slowly, and is made to cut its way through. The strong fibrous sheath of the penis prevents the ivire from cutting very readily. Amputation by the Actual or Galvanic Cautery.—M. Bonnet, of Lyons, amputates the penis by means of actual cauteries of suitable shapes. He marks the penis at the point selected for operation, and divides it by means of the cauteries, which burn their way slowly. There is no bleeding, as the vessels are sealed as they are divided by the hot iron. No cystitis or retention of urine follows the operation. The lower border of the urethra is divided in the usual way at the time of the amputation, or subsequently, to prevent its contraction. Paquelin’s thermo-cautery is at once an elegant and efficient instrument for the performance of the above operation. The galvanic ecraseur may be used to divide the penis. The platinum wire is passed around the penis behind a stout needle thrust through its body. i System of Practical Surgery, 5tli ed., p. 680. a Proceedings of the Medical Society of London, vol. v. p. 88. 1881.