1162 APPENDIX. 1 Ibid., lib. vii- cap. xxviii. He gives the mode of performing an operation for imperforate vagina, both congenital and traumatic, the parts to be kept from closure by “ a leaden pipe.”1 In the next chapter he treats of “the method of extracting a dead foetus from the womb.” lie directs that “ the utmost prudence and tenderness” shall be used in every step of the operation, as well as in the introduction of the hand into the uterus ; that when the position of the foetus has been ascer- tained, “the duty of the physician is to turn the child either upon its head or on its feet, if it be placed otherwise. And if there be no other impedi- ment, he lays hold of the hand or foot, and places it in a straighter position.” He advises the use of a polished crotchet, to be fixed either in the eye, ear, mouth, or forehead, by which careful extraction is to be made, only at the time of a uterine contraction. Directions are also given for the amputation of limbs, for evisceration, and for decapitation, in certain cases of difficult delivery. Thus it is seen that the surgery of obstetrics had reached no mean degree of practical utility in the first century of our era. Chapter XXX. of Book VII. relates to the treatment of diseases of the rectum. The indurated borders of fissures are to be excised ; warty excrescences are to he “ seized with a forceps, and cut off near their root.” Piles are to be ligated, or to “he taken hold of by one or two small hooks, and incised a little above the base; neither must any part of the head be left, nor any part of the anus be taken away; which may be accomplished by not drawing the hooks either too much or too little. Where the incision has been made, a needle is to be passed through the orifice of the vein, and below this a ligature applied.” The next chapter is on the treatment of “ troublesome” varicose veins. The searing-iron is used for the simpler forms, and excision resorted to in cases where the veins are “much convoluted, and disposed into circles as it were, with a number of them interlacing each other.” The last chapter of the seventh book (Chap. XXXIII.) is on the surgical treatment of gangrene. In this little chapter we find all that Celsus has to say concerning amputation of the limbs. In this we note a very great advance and improvement on the mode described by Hippocrates, who, it will he remembered, forbade the sur- geon to cut any but the dead tissues, and those only after a line of demarcation had been formed, and for the purpose of getting rid of the putrescent mass. Celsus directs, on the contrary, that it should rather include a portion of sound flesh, than leave any of the diseased. He avoided the joints, performing the circular operation, retracting the parts, using the saw, and preserving enough integument to cover the stump and bone in every direction. As the account is interesting and brief, I will transcribe it entire But even this is attended with very great danger; for patients frequently die during the operation itself, either from syncope or from hemorrhage. But in this as well as in some other cases, it is of very little importance whether the remedy be safe—it is our only one. Therefore the incision is to be made with a scalpel through the flesh as far as the bone, between the healthy and diseased portion ; but not over a joint, and it should rather comprehend a portion of the sound limb than leave any part of it dis- eased. When we come to the bone, the sound flesh must be retracted from it, and the section continued around it, so as to lay that part of the bone bare ; then that is to be cut off with a small saw, as near as possible to the sound adherent flesh : and the asper- ities of the bone produced by the saw being smoothed, the skin is to be brought over it; which in an operation of this kind ought to be very free, in order to cover the bone in every direction as much as possible. The part which has not been sufficiently covered with skin must be dressed with lint, and a sponge moistened with vinegar bound over it. There is nothing said in this place as to the mode of arresting hemorrhage.