TUMORS OF THE BLADDER. 355 Tumors of the Bladder. In undertaking to treat of the various tumors affecting any organ of the body, the first difficulty which arises is the selection of a classification.which will alike meet clinical and histological requirements. To effect anything like harmony is, in the present state of pathology, well nigh impossible. A strictly histological arrangement would not be found to suffice for clinical study. Hence, in view of the principal object of this article, the subject will be approached with reference to clinical rather than other purposes. Tumors of the bladder may be classified as follows: (1) Villous growths, or papillomata. (2) Mucous growths, or myxomata. (3) Fibrous growths, or fibromata. (4) Malignant or cancerous tumors. Villous growths, or papillomata, form the commonest variety of new growth met with in the bladder, and are' most frequent after puberty. Tumors of this kind used to be described under the name of villous cancer, but there are no substantial reasons for regarding them as cancerous, or as even malignant: they show no tendency to ulcerate or to become open sores, to involve structures other than the mucous membrane, to implicate glands, or to become generalized. When they prove fatal, it is by hemorrhage and con- sequent exhaustion, such as might take place from a mevus. There are good reasons for believing that they may exist for long periods of time without giving any indication of their presence. Cases have been recorded in which there were considerable intervals between attacks of hemorrhage probably due to growths of this kind, and in which, during periods of quiescence, the patients remained comparatively free from inconvenience. In the museum of St. George’s Hospital there is a specimen of such a growth, attached to the neck of the bladder of a gentleman aged eighty-one. His first attack of hemorrhage had occurred twenty ^ears before death, and had lasted for eight months; following this had been an interval of four years; and then a re- currence of hemorrhage, which ultimately proved fatal. Brodie also refers to the disease as occasionally extending over a period of seven or eight years. This is altogether unlike the ordinary history of cancerous maladies. Symptoms.—Until they occasion hemorrhage, more or less persistent or recurrent, there are usually no symptoms from which the existence of these growths may be suspected. The hemorrhage to which they almost necessarily giv'e rise, leads to an exploration of the bladder, in the course of which a portion of the growth becomes detached ; examination of clots and debris discharged under these circumstances has frequently led to the detection of the growth, by the evidence which the microscope has thus afforded. In a case of this kind in which I employed a double-current catheter for douching the bladder with hot water, a considerable piece of the growth was found blocking the return-tube. Mr. Davies Colley1 has suggested that in cases of suspected villous growth, a wash-bottle and catheter, as adapted for the removal of fragments of calculus from the bladder, might be advantageously utilized to bring away portions of the tumor for verification of the diagnosis. A smooth-bladed lithotrite has also been used for the same purpose. Per- sistent and recurrent hemorrhage, unexplained by other causes, and the detection of portions of the growth in the urine, are the points in diagnosis upon which stress is laid. On examining these growths, it may sometimes be observed that the delicate fringes which mainly compose them are en- crusted with phosphates sufficient to produce a gritty sensation when a metal 1 Trans. Clin. Soc. Lond., 1880.