INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE FEMALE GENITALS. 702 Double Vagina. Duplicity of the vagina is caused by an arrest of development; coalescence of the lower portions of Muller’s ducts has occurred, but absorption of the intervening double wall has failed. In the majority of cases a similar arrest of development has affected the uterus, so that it also is double. Neverthe- less, in several cases1 that have been observed the uterus lias been single, though in some of these2 the os and cervix have been double. Usually the two vaginas are placed side by side, not, however, precisely parallel, but the left on a plane a little anterior to the right. Dempsey3 has reported a case in which the septum was transverse,-one vagina thus being anterior, and the other posterior. In Stickel’s4 * case, menstruation occurred alternately through one and the other vagina, but never simultaneously through both. It not unfrequently happens that one vagina is larger than the other; and in one case® at least in which two uteruses existed, these organs corresponded in size with the respective vaginas. In a case reported by Ollivier,6 upon post-mortem examination of a woman, forty-two years of age, who bad given birth to six children, there were found two uteruses and two vaginas, and only the left uterus bad been preg- nant ; as far as the right vagina was concerned, the woman bad remained a virgin. In another instance7 each uterus, in a woman who bad previously given birth to three children, was pregnant, and aborted—a one month’s foetus being removed from one uterus, and three days afterwards a three months’ foetus from the other. In one case8 of single uterus with two vaginas, only one of these communicated with the womb, the other, though of about equal length, being simply a oul-de-sac. In most of the cases in which the thickness of the septum has been mentioned, this was about one-eighth of an inch. Many of the cases of duplicity of the vagina have been first recognized in labor, and in the majority of these the septum has been spontaneously torn; in others it has caused such delay in labor that it has been divided by the obstetrician. In other instances, painful coition has led to the discovery of the malformation. In one instance each vagina was too small for intromis- sion, and coitus had for some years been practised through the urethra. The treatment of double vagina is division of the septum with scissors, if the difficulty be first discovered when the subject is in labor; under other circumstances this division may be made with the galvano-cautery wire, or with the elastic ligature. Hydrocele Muliebris. The peritoneal covering of the round ligament normally ends at the in- guinal canal, hut in some cases it is prolonged to the labium majus, causing a persistence of the canal of Nuck. This canal may have free communi- cation with the peritoneal cavity, or it may be closed at the abdominal ring; in the latter case a cyst is formed, encysted hydrocele. In rare cases the cyst is double, the canal not only being closed at the abdominal ring, but also at some other point in its course. In some instances the cyst is in the 1 Schmidt’s Jalirbucher, 1870; Boston Medical and Surgical Journal, 1882; Edinburgh Medi- cal Journal, 1864; Matthews Duncan, Researches in Obstetrics (two cases). 2 For example, in Dempsey’s case (Dublin Journal of Medical Sciences, vol. lxvi.). 3 Op. cit. 4 Boston Med. and Surg. Jounral, 1859. 5 Arch, fiir Gynakol., 1884. 6 Gaz. Med. de Paris, 1872. 7 Chicago Med. Jour., 1879. 8 Boardman’s case (Boston Medical and Surgical Journal, 1882). A somewhat similar case has been observed by Emmet (Principles and Practice of Gynaecology).