172 URINARY CALCULUS. Magnesia and lime exist (if at all) in the precipitate of the boiling water, after moderate heating, as carbonates. A portion of the powder is dissolved in dilute hydrochloric acid, made neutral with ammonia, and the precipitate dissolved with acetic acid ; on adding oxalate of ammonium a white crystalline precipitate is thrown down (oxalate of lime). This test shbws lime. After filtering out this precipitate the filtrate is treated with phosphate of sodium, and magnesium shows itself under the microscope as a precipitate of crystals of triple phosphate. II. The murexid test fails. The powder consists of oxalate of lime; of carbonate of lime or magnesium; of triple phosphate, of secondary (neutral) phosphate of lime, or of tertiary (basic) phosphate of lime. Oxalate of Lime.—The powder of this substance crackles under the blow- pipe, red heat blackens it, further red heat whitens it, and it becomes car- bonate of lime, which now dissolves in dilute acids with effervescence. White heat reduces the powder to caustic lime, which no longer dissolves in dilute acids with effervescence, but turns moistened yellow-turmeric paper brown. Furthermore, powdered oxalate of lime, before being heated, is not influ- enced by acetic acid, but dissolves, without effervescence, in mineral acids, and is precipitated from such solutions by ammonia. To distinguish between the other substances mentioned above, put some of the powder into hydrochloric acid. It dissolves: (a) with effervescence, (ib) without effervescence:— (a) Carbonate of Lime or Carbonate of Magnesium:— Carbonate of Lime.—The powder blackens under moderate heat; whitens under intense heat into caustic lime, which, when moistened with water, turns yellow-turmeric paper brown. The powder, also, without previous heating, effervesces freely in dilute acids. Carbonate of Magnesium.—Dissolve the powder in dilute hydrochloric acid, neutralize the solution with ammonia, and dissolve the precipitate with acetic acid ; add phosphate of sodium and ammonium, and the magnesia will pre- cipitate as crystalline ammonio-magnesian phosphate in the shape of little stars or oblique crosses, the form of the crystals being due to the rapidity of the crystallization. (b) Oxalate of Lime or Phosphates:— Dissolves with- out e ff e r v e s - cence. The pow- der is brought to a red heat and again tested with hydrochlo- ric acid. It dissolves with effervescence S peci men fuses. Some of the unheated dust is treated with liquor po- tassas. Specimen will No efferves- < cence follows, and the blow- pipe is used. Develops ammonia. Develops ) no ammo- > nia. not fuse, and oxalate of lime. Triple phate. phos- Secondary (neutral) phos- j phate of lime. is tertiary (6«m'c) phosphate of lime (bone earth). The Pathological Results of Urinary Calculus. A comprehensive view of the relation which Urinary calculus bears to structural alterations in the urinary passages, is obtained by simply recognizing the distinction between the two great divisions of stone, the primary and the secondary. The former are formed by the urine, often when the urinary organs are sound; the latter demand as an essential factor in their formation that the mucous membrane lining that portion of the urinary passage in which they appear, shall be in a condition of chronic catarrhal inflammation ; consequently they only exist as a sequence of antecedent disease.