ORTHOPAEDIC SURGERY. 1012 cases of long standing, the abductor pollicis muscle and the adjacent fascia generally spring out in prominent relief after section of the central contrac- tion has been made; when they do so, they must be divided either through the first opening, or, which is perhaps better, by making a fresh incision about ati inch and a half behind the great toe. Complete section of the con- tracted muscle and fascia having been obtained, each small wound is closed with a pad of lint fastened by a piece of strapping, and over this a larger pad is placed to produce pressure and prevent subcutaneous hemorrhage from any small vessels that may have been divided, the whole being secured by a bandage; a flexible splint, well padded, is then placed on the leg and foot to keep the latter at rest. After three days all the dressings are removed, and the superficial wounds, which are merely small punctures the size of the blade of the knife, will be found to be completely healed mechanical treatment is then at once commenced. The object of mechanical treatment is to keep the foot in the improved con- dition in which it can be placed after the division of those structures in the sole which by their contraction contributed to the deformity, and to over- come other obstacles which still exist to complete restoration of the foot to its normal shape, and which are not amenable to operative interference. In a case of advanced deformity of the nature illustrated in Fig. 1466 ;the fore- part of the foot cannot be put in its proper plac& after section of the plantar fascia, because the ligaments connecting the under surfaces of the astragalus and os calcis with the scaphoid and cuboid bones have become structurally shortened,, a condition which can only be overcome by long- continued mechanical extension. The instrument employed for this purpose is a Scarpa’s shoe, which is admirably devised to fulfil the requirements of practice; this shoe, as improved #by Mr. Adams,1 consists of a sole-plate divided at U and supplied with a cog-wheel allowing the forepart of the plate e to be raised and lowered in the direction of the dotted line g; to the heel-piece are at- tached three straps, of which the central one passes over the front of the ankle-joint, and then between the side of the heel and the heel-piece, through the slot cut at the back of the latter, to be fastened to a buckle on the outer surface ; this strap, which is called the skate-strap, is of great assistance in fixing the heel firmly in the shoe. On the forepart of the sole-plate there is a strap and toe-wire by which the front of the foot is fastened to the instrument; connected with the heel-piece is the steel bar h, bearing the calf-plate a, and a cog-wheel, placed at c, permits of flexion and extension being made at a point corres- ponding to the ankle-joint. The foot and leg having been evenly covered with a bandage, the instrument before it is applied is flrst “ set” so as to exactly correspond to the original condition of deformity; the heel-piece is raised to the degree of elevation of the heel present in the aftected limb by using the cog-wheel corresponding to the ankle-joint at e ; and the front of the sole-plate is lowered by the cog-wheel at the division/, to an extent equal to the distortion of the foot at the transverse tarsal joint. In applying the instrument, the surgeon, sitting below and in front of his patient, and flexing the knee to about half a right angle, drops the aftected limb into the instru- Adams’s shoe for treatment of talipes equinus. 1 Op. cit., page 136.