HISTORY OF SURGERY. 1175 8 Lib. ad Almansorem, lib. ix. cap. 27; Lib. Cont., lib. ii. instruments of which we have any knowledge, are those to be found in the original manuscripts of the treatise of Albucasis. This treatise is divided into three books. The first is devoted to the diseases which were considered curable by the use of the cautery—actual and potential—and the modes of application. This was his favorite remedial agent. He enumerates not less than fifty diseases in which he had observed its utility. It was a favorite practice with all the Arabians to roast the fiesh of their patients. Freind observes of Albucasis, “ he seems to be in a rapture in speaking of the divine and secret virtues of fire.” Many ages before his time, Dioscorides, the con- temporary of Celsus, spoke of the use of the actual cautery as the “ Arabian burnings.” The second book comprises all that relates to operations which are to be performed with cutting instruments. It describes ninety-seven operations requiring the knife. The third book is devoted to the treatment of fractures and dislocations of the bones. Albucasis tells us that this branch of surgery had unhappily fallen into the hands of the most ignorant preten- ders, who were looked upon with suspicion and contempt. Albucasis assures us that his work is founded upon extensive reading and large personal experience, and that he has written nothing that he has not witnessed in his own practice; and yet the work is little more than a fair exposition and an epitome of the principles and practice of Arabian surgery as taught by his predecessors. There is no other work of this period, how- ever, that is at all comparable with it in general completeness, richness of detail, and lucidity in description. Indeed, it may truly be esteemed as one of the most precious relics of the healing art which have been transmitted to us from mediaeval times. Albucasis treats of many surgical affections of the eyes : of trichiasis, eversion of the eyelids, lipoma of the lids, encanthis, pterygium, staphyloma, hypopyon, fistula laclirymalis, and cataract. In cataract he advises operation by depression, and gives drawings of the couching-needles, called by him “ alrnagda.” He mentions that he had heard of a certain oculist who, it was said, sucked out the cataract (lens) through a small tube. He adds, however, that he had never seen this operation performed, nor had he read of it in any of the works of the ancients.1 Rhazes accurately describes the operation of couching, extraction, and sucking out the cataract.2 The subject of dental surgery is nowhere so fully treated in the works of the ancients as it is in the “ De ehirurgia” of Albucasis. Space will not allow me to give details of extraction, treatment of caries, fastening loose teeth by gold wire, etc. He excised the uvula and tonsils, by the aid of a tenaculum and scissors. In the removal of large adenoid tumors he advises the ligation of the prin- cipal nutrient artery. In tumors of doubtful character he advises an explora- tive puncture to determine the nature of their contents or structure. Besides the treatment of aneurism by ligation above and below, and opening the sac, he speaks of the cure of some cases by the use of compresses and tight band- aging. Much is said in his work on the various modes of abstracting blood : venesection, arteriotomy, cupping, and leeching. Empyema was treated by actual cautery and puncture between the ribs ; sometimes the pointed cautery was passed directly into the pleural cavity. He tells us that he never saw a case of cancer cured by excision, unless it was both recent and small. Abscess of the liver was opened by a spear-shaped actual cautery. He discourses on many other subjects—quite fully upon amputation of the limbs. The imper- fect state of surgery in the time of Albucasis, and his own timid practice, are illustrated by a case which he relates. A person who had a spreading morti- 1 De Chirurg., lib. ii. cap. 23.