INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE BLADDER AND PROSTATE. 356 sound is moved over them. As instrumental examination of the bladder, when a villous growth is present, is invariably followed by a large increase in the quantity of blood discharged with the urine, all unnecessary inter- ference must be avoided. These tumors are occasionally multiple, a favorite site being near the open- ings of the ureters, around both of which clusters of the growth may lie seen hanging. They are usually attached to an otherwise apparently healthy- looking mucous membrane, by a pedicle. There is no thickening of the walls of the bladder, and its lining membrane is the only part connected with the growth. In size they vary much, and some of the smallest have proved equally as fatal as the larger ones, from the continuous hemorrhage to which they have given rise. Occasionally they have caused retention of urine by occluding the internal opening of the urethra. Microscopically, these growths consist of a number of villi, each of which is composed of a basement membrane continuous with that of the mucous or submucous connective, covered with a thick layer of columnar or spheroidal epithelium. Each villus incloses one or more capillary vessels, arranged in loops which often present a varicose appearance. Treatment.—-With regard to the treatment of these growths, it must be remembered that there is nothing either in their structure or in their clinical history to lead to the belief that they would be incurable, provided that we had means of directly dealing with them either by destroying or removing them. On the contrary,there are reasons for believing that in a few instances they have disappeared, or at all events have ceased to produce symptoms; possibly, as Dr. Habershon has suggested, they may have been effectually disposed of by a process of sloughing, such as sometimes occurs with other vascular bodies. In considering their treatment, reference must be had, first, to the possibility of cure, and secondly, to the palliation of the symptoms to which they give- rise. In dealing with some of the methods of treatment which have been successfully adopted, we are met by the objection that indisputable evidence of the presence of these growths has not in these cases been furnished; that is, though suspected, it has never been absolutely demonstrated; and this objection applies to a case of my own, hitherto unpublished, in which I had good reasons for believing that I was dealing with a papilloma:— Early in 1877, a gentleman aged 34 consulted me for persistent luematuria : lie begged that I would not sound him as others had done, assuring me that the absence ( of stone was proved beyond'a doubt, and that each operation was invariably followed by a serious aggravation of his symptoms. He was very much blanched, and I was not sorry to acquiesce in his wish. He had been ill in this way for nearly three years, having from time to time varying periods during which the urine was free from blood. There was no cause that I could discover; no history of renal colic, nor anything to furnish a clue. A jolt in a carriage was invariably followed by a recurrence of the hemorrhage. He told me that he had taken almost every styptic and astringent that the pharmacopoeia contained. I examined his urine, which contained blood and clots in considerable quantities, but could discover no organized shreds, though I looked for them on several occasions. At this time I was engaged in making some experiments on the arresting of hemorrhage with hot water. As I had come to the conclusion that the hemorrhage in this case was from the bladder, probably from a villous growth, I determined to try it here. Accordingly, a double-current catheter was arranged, with which the patient injected into his bladder, twice a day, small quantities of hot water in gradually in- creasing amounts. We commenced with water at 96° Fahr. and gradually increased the temperature until 116° Fahr. was reached, which point was maintained for nearly a month. In a week the blood had entirely disappeared. I saw this patient several years afterwards ; he was perfectly well, and had suffered no recurrence of hmmaturia from the time that he had first used the hot douche. *>