438 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE URETHRA. in grave cases, is often accompanied by the formation of a tumor, usually situated in the median line, varying from the size of a pigeon’s egg to that of a hen’s egg, and capable of acquiring afterwards dimensions much more considerable. This tumor is sometimes susceptible to partial diminution by pressure, which causes the escape by the meatus of pure blood, which is afterwards mingled with urine. I have seen, in a case of this sort, the pa- tient empty the pocket by pressure, and in an intermittent way, and thus prevent too prolonged stagnation of the urine and blood. Rupture in the penile region may likewise be accompanied by a swelling, generally of slight dimensions, forming only a nodosity, a kind of collar, which surrounds the canal for a certain distance. Course; Complications; Termination.-—The severity of the phenomena which follow rupture of the urethra varies with the degree of the primary lesion. In interstitial rupture, the sanguineous tumor resulting from the contusion may be absorbed spontaneously; but quite often it becomes inflamed, sup- purates, and gives rise to an abscess, which opens either into the urethra or externally, or by both these ways at once. In rupture of the second degree, if the solution of continuity of the mucous membrane be very limited, things may turn out as in the preceding case, and resolution may take place without mishap. But if the wound of the mucous membrane be at all extensive, at each micturition a small quantity of the urine penetrates the subjacent lesion. This becomes inflamed and suppurates, the fibrous coat of the spongy body is rapidly destroyed, and the pus invades all the tissues of the perineum. Finally, in complete rupture, the secondary lesions always assume an ex- treme gravity. After an absolute but temporary retention, sometimes the urine flows in abundance, the patient urinates, so to speak, into his cellular tissue, and there results an extensive infiltration of urine with all its con- sequences ; sometimes the bladder allows only a small quantity of urine to escape, this penetrating the bloody pocket between the two edges, and a urinary abscess following. In either the one case or the other, the skin sloughs at one or more points, and the result is the formation of a variable- number of fistuke, which give exit at first to a mixture of urine and pus,, and afterwards to urine alone. The anterior part of the divided urethra is constricted more and moi’e by the contraction of the peri-urethral tissues, and in s6me cases even its com- plete obliteration has been noted. In regard to the intermediate space re- sulting from the separation of the two sections of the canal, it shrinks grad- ually, and becomes organized into fibrous tissue. It is not possible to insist strongly enough upon this ultimate consequence, common to all ruptures of the urethra, to whatever variety they may belong -—I mean the establishment of a stricture. This complication appears even in the case of interstitial rupture. The effusion of blood, in the process of absorption, causes induration and contraction of the spongy tissue. In this way there is formed a more or less complete collar, producing a coarcta- tion all the more marked as it embraces a greater portion of the circumfer- ence of the canal. Ruptures of the second and third degree are accompanied by the forma- tion of a true cicatrix, leading to a fibrous stricture. In cases in which only a portion of the circumference of the urethra has been injured, the stricture assumes the form of a bridle, or a half-ring rising from the side of the canal. If, on the contrary, the rupture has been complete, the two ends sep- arate, and the strictured part is made up entirely of newly formed tissue. The track which passes through this tissue is most frequently filiform, twisted, anfractuous, and always" destitute of mucous membrane. It is to