352 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE BLADDER AND PROSTATE. the muscular coat is at the expense of the cavity, whilst in the other the con- dition is reversed. Both conditions, in variable degrees, are commonly met with, and are explicable by individual differences of vesical irritability. One person with a stricture will make water on every available occasion, whilst another, similarly situated, rather shirks the straining which the act requires, and consequently is disposed to err in an opposite direction. This is a reason- able explanation of the varying degrees of bladder-capacity observed in other- wise similar cases of uniform hypertrophy. As a rule, hypertrophy exists as long as there is a cause for it. When the stricture, or other obstacle, is re- moved, the hypertrophy, in most cases, gradually disappears. This condition is sometimes, however, a cause for the continuance of irritability and frequent urination, long after the stricture has been, to all intents and purposes, suffi- ciently relieved. Under these circumstances, cystotomy has been resorted to with good results. It may be asked, WThat is the rationale of this ? How is an hypertrophied bladder, with a small capacity, to be made capacious and tolerant by not allowing urine to collect in it for an interval of two or three weeks or more ? The explanation is to be found in the fact, that, for the time being, the bladder is prevented from acting as a muscular organ, and that atrophy, or loss of muscularity, therefore, follows. Possibly it is only under circumstances such as these, that anything need be said with regard to the treatment of uniform vesical hypertrophy. When, however, the hypertrophy is partial—when the increase is confined to one set of fibres, or to one part of the bladder—symptoms are produced, and changes are brought about, which will require further remark. There is a condition which has been described as a columniform state of the bladder, in which the interior presents an appearance similar to that of the cavities of the heart, the muscular fibres not being spread out uniformly, but being collected in bundles, like the columno cameo:. Hence the name. Between these elevations are corresponding depressions, against which the urine is forced when the expulsive power of the bladder is exercised. In this way sacculi are formed, as will be presently noticed. This is a condition fre- quently observed in connection with prostatic hypertrophy. It is usually associated with dilatation of the bladder, and with fatty degeneration of its muscular coat. There is a tolerably frequent example of limited hypertrophy which was pointed out by Mr. Guthrie,1 where, in connection with enlarge- ment of the prostate, a bar is formed at the neck of the bladder by the exces- sive development of the muscular fibres in that locality. As an illustration of limited hypertrophy it is referred to here, but it will require fuller consid- eration in a separate section. Amongst hypertrophies limited to certain por- tions of the bladder, must be included those in which an excessive develop- ment of muscular fibres has taken place between the orifices of the ureters. In this way, in a case recorded by Mr. Bickersteth,2 a bladder was practically divided into two compartments by a muscular barrier thrown across between those openings, and considerable difficulty was experienced in the removal of a stone with the forceps, after the bladder had been opened, the stone being lodged in the upper depression. Atrophy of the Bladder.—In this condition, which is only rarely met with, the bladder, either by accident or otherwise, is rendered incapable of acting as a reservoir by reason of the urine escaping immediately after entering it. In some reported cases of malformation and of extensive vesical fistula, this change appears to have taken place, the bladder being little else than a rudi- mentary organ. 1 Op. cit., p. 271. 2 Liverpool Med. and Surg. Reports, vol. i. 1867.