1124 APPENDIX. 2. A medicine-case (Fig. 1529). This is a small case to be carried on the person of either the surgeon or his hospital steward, containing a few of the more commonly needed medicines, with brandy, chloroform, bandages, and dressings. Fig. 1528. Fig. 1529. Upper tray of medicine-pannier. Coolidge’s medicine-case or field-companion. 3. It will be advisable for the surgeon to procure some additional articles, such as antiseptic dressings and plaster of Paris, with crinoline, or “ serim,” for making plaster splints. These should be carried in a small box with a hinged lid. 4. A Jield-case of instruments, a list of which will be found on page 23 of the “ supply table.” 5. A pocket-case of instruments. 6. A mess-chest, containing cooking apparatus and table furniture for twelve men. A list of contents of such a chest is given on page 29 of the “ supply table” above mentioned. 7. And the following additional articles, viz :— 20 blankets in two separate cases. 2 hospital tents, adapted to shelter eight men each. 6 bedsacks, empty. 1 wall tent, 1 table with folding legs, 1 small desk, 1 axe, 2 spades, 2 buckets. 4 large rubber blankets. 3 lanterns. 2 ambulances, with 2 litters each.1 This equipment will suffice for a regiment of ten companies, until it joins an army ; or for independent service, as in case of riot or insurrection in cities. The officials charged with the raising of troops should be prepared to furnish the foregoing articles, requisition being made upon them by the regimental surgeon. In reference to service in the case of riot, it may be hoped that the com- mander of the troops will show such prompt and merciful severity as will speedily quell it. The medical officer may then assume that his services will be limited to giving the first aid to his wounded, by primary dressings, tempor- ary splints, etc. lie should previously have requested that a few men should be placed under his orders for the purpose of removing the wounded to some secure spot which he has selected for the purpose, whence after dressing their wounds they can be removed to the nearest hospitals. In selecting such a place, it will be best for the surgeon to avoid using churches or theatres, but he should select a large hall, unencumbered with pews or permanent seats, and in such a location as he may have reason to think is safe from assaults or expo- sure to the fire of the rioters. On his recommendation, the commanding j- for dispensary and office. * See Figs. 1530-1534, pp. 1129, 1130, infra.