PREPARATION OF MILITARY SURGEONS FOR FIELD DUTIES. 1125 officer of the troops should seize express wagons or other convenient vehicles, with which the wounded may be removed to the nearest hospitals without injury.1 The regiment having reached the seat of actual war, becomes at once a part of the great machine—the army—and the medical officer like all others w ill find liis acts now subordinated to the will of superiors. His responsibilities are distinct and well defined, and by an article of war cannot be delegated to others.2 As the same supervision of the hygiene of his regiment is required of the surgeon in an army as when it is acting separately, the general subject will here receive brief attention. Hygiene of Camps and Sanitary Care of Troops.—The limits prescribed for this article will not admit of a detailed consideration of this important subject, but some general observations and special injunctions will be given, which it is thought will be practically useful. The late Surgeon Jonathan Letterman, to whom we are indebted for the organization of the Medical Department of the Army of the Potomac, wrote as follows :3— A corps of' medical officers was not eslablislied solely for the purpose of attending the wounded and sick ; the proper treatment of these sufferers is certainly a matter of very great importance and is an imperative duty, but the labors of medical officers cover a more extended field. The leading idea which should be constantly kept in view, is to strengthen the hands of the commanding general by keeping his army in the most vigor- ous health, thus rendering it in the highest degree efficient for enduring fatigue and privation, and for fighting. In this view, the duties of such a corps are of vital impor- tance to the success of an army, and commanders seldom appreciate the full effect of their proper fulfilment. Medical officers should possess a thorough knowledge of the powers and capabilities of the human system ; the effect of food, raiment, and climate, with all its multiplied vicissitudes, the influences for evil which surround an army, and the means necessary to combat them successfully. It is the interest of the government, aside from all motives of humanity, to bestow the greatest possible care upon its wounded and sick, and to use every means to preserve the health of those who are well, since the greater will be the number for duty ; and the more attention bestowed upon the sick and wounded, the more speedily will they be able to perform the duties for which they were employed. When medical officers consider this subject attentively, all their high and important duties will naturally occur to them.4 Bearing in mind these views of his duty, the great value of which cannot be questioned, the medical officer may be guided as to many practical details in caring for the health of his regiment by the following circular of Medical Director Letterman, issued to the Army of the Potomac, May 12, 1863:— In the selection of camping grounds, that should be selected which has natural drain- age, and all low-lying and bottom-lands, and lands in the vicinity of stagnant water, should be avoided. Every camp should be thoroughly ditched by main ditches, eighteen inches deep, and the ground around the tents drained by ditches leading into the main ditches of the camp. Camps should, whenever possible, be pitched in the vicinity of running streams, or of living springs, and the use of surface water, or that from holes dug two or three feet in the ground, should by all means be avoided. Camps should not be formed in the woods, 1 It would be advisable that the medical equipment above detailed, should be provided and kept on hand at each regimental armory in our large cities. The tents, axes, and desk should he omitted. There should be one or more ambulance wagons, provided with hand litters, held subject to order in the vicinity of the armory. 2 See page 1141, infra. 3 Medical Recollections of the Army of the Potomac, p. 100. 4 In the late war, the deaths from disease were double the number of those “ killed in battle” and “died of wounds” combined.