RETENTION AND INCONTINENCE OF URINE, ETC. 403 2 Op. cit., p. 89. catheters.”1 In some cases, when the symptoms of retention are not pressing, and when the history of the case warrants the assumption that the impedi- ment depends upon some temporary occlusion of the urethra by inflammatory engorgement of the mucous membrane, to which spasm has been superadded, a hot bath and a full dose of laudanum, followed by wrapping the patient in warm blankets, are means which are sometimes successful in bringing about a natural discharge of the urine. Such treatment, however, is not to be recommended or to be continued when the symptoms of retention are at all urgent. When the case is further complicated by the existence of an organ- ized stricture of some standing, delay may lead to serious consequences which might perhaps be averted by the timely use of the catheter. The late Mr. Guthrie2 was in the habit of enforcing the use of the catheter by some very humorous and characteristic illustrations, concluding his observations on this subject with the remark, “ I have always made it a rule to try and pass a catheter in every case of retention of urine. If it passes, so much the better ; if it does not, the patient submits more cheerfully to the longer course of treatment.” There is a very simple expedient which often suffices in cases of retention due to organic stricture, which is not sufficiently resorted to. In many of these cases, the absolute occlusion of the urethra is, I believe, determined by the impaction within the stricture of a small fragment of inspissated mucus. I have frequently found that urgent retention may be relieved by the passage of a fine, filiform bougie. On withdrawing it, urine flows, and the patient, if placed in a warm bed, is able slowly but effectually to empty his bladder. Then, as a rule, medical treatment having reference to the allaying of spasm and inflammation, and to the correction of the condition of the urine, comes in most serviceably before any other treatment is required. In many cases I have found this proceeding successful even after ordinary catheterization has failed to give relief. AVhen retention is not occasioned by any object situated anterior to the bladder, catheterization will not be attended with any special difficulty. As a rule, the flexible or rubber instruments will be found admirably adapted for these purposes; not only do they occasion no damage to the parts along which they have to pass, but, should it be desirable, patients may be readily instructed in their use. In senile retention due to an enlarging prostate, an appropriate instrument, either flexible or metallic, will most probably be required. These have already been described. In employing catheters under these circumstances, practitioners will not forget the great assistance which they may obtain from tilting the end of the instrument over the obstructing portion of the gland, by means of the finger in the rectum. In retention arising from the various forms of stricture of the urethra, it may be necessary to employ instruments of very small calibre. These will be referred to in connection with the treatment of stricture of the urethra. AVhen fine metallic instruments have to be used for this purpose, care must be taken that no force be exercised in introducing them, as otherwise a false passage may easily be made. I shall not further refer to the varieties of catheter used in the treatment of retention due to stricture, except to remark on the great usefulness of the tunnelled catheter introduced by Dr. Gouley (Fig. 1301). There have been very few cases of retention from stricture, in which I have not been able to introduce the fine whalebone guide into 1 On some Affections of tlie Urinary Bladder and Uretlira. Med. Times and Gazette, April 10, 1858.