ORTHOPAEDIC SURGERY. 1054 bearing upon which to apply an instrument; the best results can generally be obtained by the steady employment of weight-extension, which may be made to draw the thigh down upon the pelvis, and also to abduct it. Mani- pulations may be practised in the later stages of treatment, and appropriate exercises may be ordered to strengthen the weakened muscles ; if the adduc- tion is persistent, and does not yield readily, a good plan is to make the sub- ject sit on a saddle, the width of which may gradually be increased as the contraction is overcome. A condition of deformity very similar to the above, as far as the position of the limbs is concerned, results from spastic contraction of the flexors and adductors of the lower extremity ; the treatment of this distortion necessi- tates the same course of tenotomy and instrumental means as in the case of paralytic contraction. The effects of treatment in these cases are usually very satisfactory; even with extreme loss of power of the paralyzed parts, a useful limb can be obtained by overcoming the contraction and placing the weakened muscles in a condition favorable for exercising what amount of contractile power they may retain. When the patient is sufficiently recovered to be allowed to use his limbs, steel supports, extending from a band around the pelvis to the boot, are required ; if the extensors of the leg be much wasted, the knee- joints must be fixed by a slip-catch, which will prevent the knees giving way when the child tries to stand. Crutches, or, what is still better, a go-cart, should be used in the first attempts to walk, and as muscular strength is regained, these artificial aids must gradually be removed and the child be encouraged to trust as much as possible to his own efforts. The progress towards recovery is slow, especially when the condition of deformity has existed for some years before being submitted to treatment; the spasmodic cases are the most tedious in their course, but even here much can always be done to improve the walking powers by steadily persevering with the instru- mental treatment. A case that was under my care some years ago, in 1878, is a remarkable instance of the power of self-recovery which the muscles pos- sess when restored to a condition which promotes their proper action:— A young gentleman, aged 18, had suffered from infancy from spastic contraction of the flexors and adductors of the lower extremities ; he had never walked, and his only mode of progression was by crawling on his hands and thighs. There were equino- varus of both feet, flexion of both legs, and flexion and adduction of both thighs ; he was nevertheless well developed, and much above the ordinary height and weight. The various conditions of deformity were relieved one after the other, and instruments to support the limbs, with crutches, were used in his first endeavors to walk ; gradually one crutch and then the second were discarded, and two sticks were substituted ; he could, in 1883, walk three or four miles with the instruments and one stick only, and could even get about for short distances without any artificial assistance whatever. Deformities of the Upper Extremity. Contraction of the hayid, forearm, or arm, may result from muscular dis- turbance, and may be present either as a congenital or as a non-congenital affection. The congenital deformities of the hand have been compared with those occurring in the foot; thus, when the hand is flexed and pronated, owing to shortening of the muscles which produce those movements, the distortion has been regarded as of a nature similar to talipes varus; again, when the extensors and supinators are contracted, a comparison has been drawn between the state of the hand and talipes valgus. Congenital contraction of the hand is seldom of a severe nature, although a slight degree of muscular disturbance