105 FISTULA IN ANO. In phthisical patients it is, in my opinion, the best means of dividing a sinus. In very deep, bad fistulpe, the elastic ligature is most valuable as an auxiliary to the knife. In sinuses running high up the bowel, where large vessels are inevitably met with, I use the ligature in preference to the knife, as I by this means often avoid dangerous hemorrhage. The objection to the general use of the ligature is that it is impossible, in many instances, to be absolutely sure that only one sinus exists. If there are lateral sinuses, or a sinus burrowing beneath or higher up the rectum than the main trunk through which the ligature is passed, the patient will not get well with one operation. In these complicated cases, the knife alone, or conjoined with the ligature, is the trustworthy remedy. I have for a long time now used only solid India-rubber, so strong that I cannot break it; and I put it on as tightly as I can, and fasten it by means of a small pewter clip pressed together by strong forceps. The ligature cuts through in about six days. I have devised an instrument (Fig. 1185) for passing the India-rubber through a iistula, which renders this generally tedious process easy and expeditious. Fig. 1185. Instrument for drawing India-rubber through fistula from within outwards. And now we come to the consideration of cutting operations for fistula. First of all, the patient’s bowels must have been well cleared out; a purge three days before the operation, and again the night before, and an injection in the morning, will effect this. The patient should be placed on a hard mattress, on the side in which the fistula exists, the buttocks being brought quite to the edge, and the knees well drawn up to the abdomen. The surgeon now takes a Brodie’s probe- director made of steel, with a small probe-point; oils it and passes it into the external opening, through the sinus and the internal opening, if possible; then inserts his finger into the rectum, and on feeling the point of the director in the bowel, if the patient be not anesthetized, tells him to strain down ; he will thus be able, without difficulty, to turn the point of the instrument out of the anus. This done, the tissues forming a bridge over the director are to be divided with a curved bistoury. If the fistula be deep, running beneath the sphincters, it will not be possible to get the point of the probe out at the anus, even if the patient be amesthetized ; in such a case the surgeon must pass the director well through the sinus, then insert his left forefinger into the rectum, steady the director, and run a straight knife along the groove, cutting carefully towards the bowel until the parts are severed. To inex- pert surgeons I recommend my deeply-grooved director and scissors (Fig. 1186); I may add that gentle dilatation of the sphincters under these diffi- culties gives the surgeon an immense advantage of which I now constantly avail myself. If there be no internal opening, there will almost always be found some part where only mucous membrane intervenes between the point of the probe and the finger. At this spot, the director should be worked through, and the point brought down as before. When the fistula has been divided from the external to the internal opening, search is made higher with the probe