938 SCROFULO-TUBERCULOUS AND OTHER STRUCTURAL DISEASES OF BONES. that in amputating, or in extirpating everything which appears diseased in resecting a joint (the synovial membrane, the ligaments, etc.), the whole of the disease is really extirpated. M. Ollier, from facts observed in his clinique, insists upon tuberculous infiltration of the lymphatic glands situated above the diseased part, and very deep. You may indeed have amputated the thigh for a white swelling, but you cannot say that you have done a radical operation, as far as the tubercle is concerned; for you leave behind the femoral ganglia, which cannot all he removed, and also the pelvic glands, which are tuberculous. Resections and amputations will always leave behind the thoracic or pelvic ganglia, even though it be recognized as the rule to complete these operations by enucleation of all the swollen glands of the limb. If this be so, it ought to be made a rule to prefer resection to amputation, and not to decide upon the latter, except as a last resort. If the general condition is very bad, if the local disturbances are very extensive, involving at the same time and seriously the bone and the soft parts, if there is very abundant suppuration which is causing the exhaustion of the patient, and if, at the same time, the latter is advanced in years and ca- chectic, amputation is a necessary sacrifice. All things being otherwise equal, considerations of fortune, of social position, of profession or of trade, will enter into the question as to the course to be pursued. In the lower limb, an amputation of the thigh or an amputation of the leg will often be more to the true interest of the patient, if he is destitute of means, than a resection of the knee or of the ankle. Are resections or amputations justifiable in tuberculous subjects? This is the last and important question which we must ask ourselves at the end of this study. Ought tuberculous persons to be operated upon ? Professor Verneuil and Ids pupil M. Leroux1 have presented a gloomy picture of the results of operations on tuberculous patients. It is certain that cases may be cited in which an operation, however slight, has caused an outbreak of tubercle in the lungs or other viscera. But it is no less certain that to these can be opposed other cases in which there have occurred very perceptible amelioration and evert disappearance of pulmonary lesions which existed before operating. M. Ollier has reported cases of this kind in his memoir on resections and amputations in tuberculous subjects. On the other hand, there are quite a large number of patients who, having been subject to amputation or resection when their lungs were unaffected, have remained long years, and even to the end of their lives, without having the least tuberculous lesion in any part of their organism. In the third place, antiseptic dressings, by suppressing complications in wounds, by reducing suppuration to almost nothing, have freed the operative traumatism from the disastrous consequences which formerly followed it. The tuberculous person may die of pulmonary or visceral tuberculosis sooner or later after the opera- tion—M. Kbnig has labored to demonstrate this, but we knew it only too well before-—but an antiseptic operation will not shorten his days. On the con- trary, an operation, by removing an external tuberculous centre, removes at the same time a cause of exhaustion (by suppuration, want of exercise, absorp- tion-fever, suffering, anorexia, and insufficient assimilation), and a source of infection. Consequently, it places the patient in better condition to escape generalization of the tuberculosis, and to resist the present attack as well as future contagion. Therefore one can, and one should, operate upon tuberculous patients, whether their lungs are affected or not. I have seen, in the service of M. Ollier, patients who have had the signs of cavities, stationary it is true, much benefited by operation. The coincidence of tuberculosis of the 1 Des amputations et des resections cliez les phthisiques. (These.) Paris, 1880.