APPENDIX. 1180 boiling fluids, combustible substances like our modem moxas, live coals for serpent-bites, hot needles, bronze and iron bars and plates. The potential cautery consisted generally of potash, which was used in opening abscesses. They had four remedies for the arrest of hemorrhages, viz., astringents, ice, caustics, and the actual cautery. The ancient Hindoo surgeons were bold, hazardous, and expert. They performed cystotomy, lithotomy, embryotomy, autoplastic operations, couching for cataract, paracentesis of chest and abdo- men, etc., quite in contrast with the almost total extinction of surgery which prevails at the present time throughout India and China. In amputation of the extremities, which was done in extreme cases, the stump was first dressed with boiling oil, in a cup-formed bandage, and afterwards with pitch, vege- table decoctions, etc. Cupping and leeching were favorite remedies in various diseases. Of surgical instruments the Hindoos had a very respectable armament, two hundred being described in their works. Of these, they say, “ the first, best, and most important of all surgical implements is the hand.” The Susruta describes twenty ancient cutting instruments, including knives, lancets, tro- cars, cutting-nippers, scissors, saws, etc. There are one hundred and one blunt instruments; twenty varieties of tubular instruments of different sizes and shapes, including catheters, syringes, etc. There are twenty-eight kinds of probes, rods, and sounds, varying in size and shape, for examining the size and nature of foreign objects lodged in parts difficult of access, and for clearing canals, particularly the urethra. Add to these various kinds of forceps, bandages, splints, etc., and it will be seen that the ancient Hindoos had no lack of surgical implements. “ The Sastras, or cutting instruments, were of metal, and should be always bright, handsome, polished, and sharp, sufficiently so, indeed, to divide a hair longitudinally.” Lithotomy was performed by these Hindoo surgeons, generally by “ cut- ting on the gripe,” though the supra-pubic, or high operation, was some- times resorted to. If considered specially dangerous, the latter operation was performed on women by their husbands. The removal of the stone was effected with an iron scoop. The Susruta also gives a description of the opera- tions of gastrotomy, gastrorraphy, and gastro-hysterotomy (Caesarean opera- tion), herniotomy, rhinoplasty, etc. Rhinoplasty is a very ancient operation in Asia. The “Indian method” takes the required skin from the forehead; in Hindostan it was sometimes taken from the cheek. The Hindoos adopted a very simple and excellent device to form the nares, by the introduction of two wooden canulse, which permitted breathing, and gave support to the nose. In fractures of the bones they used an admirable splint, consisting of small thin slips of bamboo, bound together with strings, after the manner of old- fashioned Venetian window-shades. These possessed the excellent qualities of strength, lightness, proper flexibility, and cleanliness. The Medical Depart- ment of the British Army adopted a modification of this splint, known as •“Duncan’s patent rattan cane splint.” Pulleys were used to reduce some kinds of dislocations. Thus it is seen that the ancient Hindoos—by ancient I mean previous to the middle of the eighth century—possessed a valuable amount of knowledge and skill in surgery. But long before the British occupation of Hindostan and India, surgery, in these countries and also in China, was almost unknown. Anatomy was extinct, and the few operations which were done were performed by ignorant itinerants, scarcely any surgical instruments being in use. [Fractures and dislocations were allowed to go without treatment, and den- tistry was reduced to the extraction of teeth with the fingers. Space restricts me from entering more fully into the history of surgery among the Asiatics.