760 THE C2ESAREAN SECTION AND ITS SUBSTITUTES. patient suddenly, probably from cardiac thrombosis, on May 16, twenty-five days subsequently. I am not, however, willing to deny some of the prior claims, as there are reasons for believing that the operations were performed as stated. The celebrated Ambroise Pare (1509-1590), of Paris, wrote in 1561, and opposed the performance of the operation except in the interest of the foetus, after the death of the mother, giving as his reason that the women operated on perished of hemorrhage. His pupil and successor, Jacques Guil- lemeau (1550-1612), stated that he had operated twice on living women, and that MM. Viart, Brunet, and Carbonnet had each done so once, all of the live cases proving fatal. On this ground he also opposed the operation until after death, and although he admitted that another operator had been more fortu- nate, still he held to his opinion, saying, laconically, that one swallow did not make a summer. Dr. Edward C. J. Von Siebold casts a doubt upon the charac- ter of the reported cases of the sixteenth century, believing them to have been laparotomies following rupture of the uterus, as the children were usually dead. But the danger attributed to hemorrhage, indicates to my mind that the uterus must have been opened by the knife. As the two operations have often been confounded, and both are frequently recorded as “ Ccesarean” even at the present day, by writers who ought to know better, it is highly prob- able that a portion of the cases of that period were laparotomies simply, and not laparo-hysterotomies or gastro-hysterotomies. We may go back still further to “about the year 1500,” when, according to Caspar Bauhin, who wrote in 1588, Jakob Nufer, of Siegenhausen, Germany, a cattle gelder, and probably a cattle spayer also, operated with success upon Elizabeth Alespachen, his wife, after her case had been considered hopeless by the attending midwives. This woman is said to have given birth naturally to other children at later periods. There is nothing at all improbable in this statement, and but for the time that elapsed between the operation and its record we should not question its correctness. However, this may also be passed over, since I have myself with positive certainty traced back a Caesa- rean case to an early part of the present century. I am also the more inclined to credit the Nufer operation, from the fact that Mary Donnally, an Irish mid- wife, is known to have operated upon Alice O’Neill with success, on January 9, 1738 ; and that a plantation midwife of Louisiana accomplished the same feat, near New Orleans, upon a young slave primipara, in 1838, the child in this case being saved as well as the mother; the midwife was intoxicated and very ignorant, being what is known as “ a plantation granny.” Several operations have been claimed for the fifteenth century, viz., one in 1400, a second in 1424—saving a lady and child at Creon, France—and a third in 1491.1 These have all been credited by some writers and doubted by others. After the statement by Sir John Hayward, in his “Life and Deign of Edward VI., of England,” that the said king was removed from his mother Jane Seymour, wife of Henry VIII., in October, 1537, by the Ctesarean section—a story without the least foundation—I must feel inclined to ques- tion many of the Caesarean records.2 The same must be said of the classic claim to the operation, which has no better foundation than a statement of Pliny the historian, who certainly made many assertions that are extremely fabulous, and that are adapted to bring others that may be better founded into discredit. As the ancient Greek and Latin medical writers make no men- tion of the operation whatever, I am not inclined to credit what is said by Pliny. But there is another and still better reason for believing that the operation may have all the age in the world that has been claimed for it. 1 Recorded in Venice, by Nicolas de Falconis. 2 Klein has collected 82 cases, dating from 1500 to 1769.