642 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. Lallemand’s definition of spermatorrhoea took a wide range, for he con- sidered “ every profuse seminal discharge, in whatever manner it occurred,” to be due to this complaint. Sir James Paget takes a very different view, for he writes that “ if anything can be called spermatorrhoea, it is the condition of those individuals whose nervous systems are over-sensitive, or in whom the portion of the spinal cord which is in relation with the sexual organs is too irritable, ejaculation too rapid, and produced, without erection and sensation, even by the friction of the clothes, or when the imagination is a prey to lascivious thoughts.” Trousseau, in a clinical lecture on seminal losses, drew attention to the association of these cases with nervous diseases, and especially with incontinence of urine in early life. lie considered that spermatorrhoea existed “ when losses or evacuations of the seminal fluid took place without any erotic excitement, or after a stimulus which would be insufficient to excite emission in a person in health.” In these cases there may be some lesion of the genito-urinary tract, hut the nervous disorders are always present, and are eventually followed by disorders of the general system. Etiology.—The causation of the condition known as spermatorrhoea is obscure, and we must bear in mind that abnormal seminal losses are to be con- sidered not as a disease, but rather as a symptom of disease. The conditions which produce malnutrition of the nervous system and of the body generally, produce also disorders of the genital organs. Besides the condition of the general health, local changes will, on examination, be discovered. Any debilitating illness, exposure to malaria, insufficient food, or want of exer- cise, may, by impairing the nutrition of the body, give rise to anaemia, and favor the production of seminal emissions. The clinical histories of these cases point to the conclusion that hereditary influences are at work, and that the patients have a predisposition to epilepsy and insanity, and, when children, have suffered from nocturnal enuresis (Trousseau). A potent cause of the complaint is found in sexual excesses of all kinds, and robust men may suffer because they have abused their sexual powers by excessive sexual intercourse, or more commonly by the practice of masturbation, commenced in boyhood and continued in after-life. Although in masturbation the amount of semen lost is less than in sexual intercourse, yet the nervous shock attending the emission is greater. The practice is often commenced at a very early age, and the opportunities to indulge in the act are many. Any irritation, such as a long foreskin, will produce a constant state of erection in infants. Children three or four years old have been known to masturbate. Any nervous dis- order to which the child may have a tendency is under such circumstances developed; epilepsy and affections of the eyesight may result. The longer the habit has been indulged in, the more difficult is its discontinuance. Men differ widely as to their sexual power, and what is moderate indulgence-—or, at any rate, harmless—in one, proves harmful to another. Trousseau was the first to insist upon the important part taken by the nervous system in the production of seminal weakness ; before his time the symptoms were thought to be due to the loss of semen, which loss, however, is not excessive. Mastur- bation is the most common cause of spermatorrhoea. Sir James Paget narrates the following instructive case :— A man, aged thirty, suffering from spinal irritation, lay helpless and willless, weak- eyed and utterly enfeebled, a very type of the supposed victims of spermatorrhoea. Nocturnal emissions occurred very rarely ; they were followed by increase of backache and other miseries, but in no greater degree than was every unusual mental or bodily effort. This patient had never had sexual intercourse, had masturbated only twice or three times in his life, and had had very few nocturnal emissions. In some of these cases, he adds, rapid and frequent emissions are the con- sequence, and not the cause, of nervous disorder. Direction of the mind to