ORTHOPAEDIC SURGERY. 1052 operations on the hones which he has performed after the same method, says, “the wounds enable the instrument to reach the bone; hut as they are gene- rally made more or less obliquely, while the osteotome, after introduction, is turned transversely to the axis of the limb, there is an aperture on each side of the osteotome, leading from the external air directly to the interior of the bone.” “ They are therefore not subcutaneous osteotomies, but examples of compound fractures and incisions treated antiseptically.”1 Mr. Reeves, in 1878, performed an operation which he describes as being extra-articular: an oblique cut is made with the chisel into the inner condyle, while the leg is flexed so as to draw down the synovial membrane; the con- dyle is not completely separated, the incision only extending to within one- eighth of an inch of the articular cartilage. The leg is forcibly straightened, and afterwards encased in a plaster-of-Paris bandage which is taken otf on the tenth day after the operation, gentle passive motion being then continued daily until the full movement of the joint is restored.2 A fourth operation is that introduced by Mr. Harwell,3 who regards the deformity “ not as a mere lengthening of the inner condyle, but as an obliq- uity of the whole lower epiphysis of the femur,” and also says that “ in ex- amining the tibia one finds the portion of bone for an inch below the knee- joint perfectly normal; just at that distance below the articulation one feels, in well-marked cases of knock-knee, an angle from which the shin bone slopes outward.” To remedy this variety of genu valgum, Mr. Barwell per- forms osteotomy upon both the femur and the tibia. Of these four operations, that practised by Dr. Macewen is in my opinion the safest method of procedure to adopt, when in the advanced stage of knock-knee the articular surface of the femur is abnormally oblique. Dr. Ogston’s operation has more than once resulted in suppuration within the cavity of the joint, and in one reported case the patient died from septicaemia; again, there is a risk of raising the inner condyle too high, and of producing the opposite condition of deformity—genu extrorsum—two instances of which occurrence have come under my observation. In Dr. Macewen’s operation the joint is not interfered with, and the danger of failing to correctly shape the articular surface is much less, because the separated portion of hone is larger and better under command than is the small and freely movable condyle. I have also met with a case of genu extrorsum caused by performing Mr. Reeves’s operation; the unfortunate termination which attended these three cases could not have been due to any want of skill on the part of the operator, for in each case the surgeon was well experienced in the method of treatment which he was employing. The possibility of thus substituting one condition of deformity for another, by interfering with the joint-surface, is a fact of con- siderable importance; the condition of genu extrorsum which is flius caused is by no means easy to overcome, and probably the deformity can only be completely reduced by resorting to osteotomy of the outer condyle. A reference to the English medical journals of the last few years shows that much want of discrimination has existed in selecting appropriate cases of genu valgum for treatment by osteotomy. Numbers of young children have been operated on, who could quite as quickly, and much more safely, have been relieved of their deformity by the simple measures of treatment which have been above described. 1 Lancet, September 18, 1880. 2 Transactions of the Clinical Society of London, vol. xii. 3 British Medical Journal, October 18, 1879.