1035 CLUB-FOOT. leg, and the heel is depressed. The chief change in the position of the bones of the tarsus consists in displacement of the scaphoid and cuboid bones from the astragalus and os ealcis: the scaphoid is dragged outwards and its inner border directed downwards; the cuboid is pulled outwards and upwards; the cuneiform bones, with the corresponding metatarsal bones, are depressed with the scaphoid; whilst the outer metatarsal bones are directed outwards and upwards with the cuboid ; the varying position of these bones accounts for the peculiar twisted appearance presented by the foot. The development of this condition of distortion results from spasmodic contraction of the peronei and extensor muscles of the toes, the tibialis anticus muscle being also contracted in severe cases of the nature illustrated in Fig. 1488. The variety of congenital valgus which is associated with equinus presents much the same twisted appearance as the above form of calcaneo-valgus, but the convexity on the inner border of the foot is still more marked; the heel is raised by contraction of the extensor muscles, the centre of the inner side of the foot is depressed from the changed position of the scaphoid, and the metatarsal bones on the outer side are elevated by contraction of the extensors of the toes ; the normal condition of the foot, with reference to the parts of the sole which are placed on the ground, is thus almost completely reversed, for that portion which ought to form the arch is depressed, whilst the heel, the outer border, and the forepart of the foot, which ought to constitute the treading surface, are elevated; this con- dition of deformity is illustrated in Fig. 1489. In equino-valgus, the os calcis is more or less elevated according to the extent of contraction of the tendo Achillis, and its position be- comes vertical to a corresponding degree; the superior articulating sur- face of the astragalus is thrown for- wards on the dorsum of the foot, the head of the same bone forming a prominence on the inner side; the other tarsal bones are displaced in the same manner as in calcaneo-valgus. Congenital talipes valgus is a deformity which is not frequently met with, but when it does occur, the distortion is usually of a severe nature, the cases above illustrated being fair examples of the condition commonly developed. Congenital valgus, if allowed to continue unrelieved, interferes most seriously with the walking powers of the subject of deformity; the structural changes in the foot are of a much less complicated nature than are those present in congenital varus, but they nevertheless produce greater lameness, because the depressed arch of the foot, which is placed on the ground, is less able to bear pressure than is the dorsum, and also because the protecting pad of thickened skin and cellular tissue, which is developed in varus, is wanting in valgus. In the treatment of congenital valgus, tenotomy is nearly always necessary ; in calcaneo-valgus, the tendons of the extensors of the toes and the peronei muscles require division, and it may be also necessary to divide the tendon ot the tibialis anticus. Ao especial directions are needed as to the method ot performing section of these tendons: the peroneus longus and brevis are easily reached, and may be divided with one puncture, just above the external malleolus; the extensor tendons of the toes are directed a little in front of the ankle-joint, and for their section the tenotome is entered on the inner side ■ot the proprius pollicis tendon ; the method of performing tenotomy on the Fig. 1489. Congenital equino-valgus.