1176 APPENDIX. 2 Colliget, fol. 30, 39, 52, 56, 64. 1 Op. cit., lib. ii. cap. 89. fication in the foot, cut the limb off himself at the ankle-joint, and was cured for the time. The disease next attacked the hand, upon which he applied to Albucasis, requesting that he would cut off the part in the same manner; but this lie refused to do, for fear that the man’s strength might not be able to endure the operation. He afterwards learned that the patient had cut off his whole hand, and had recovered.1 He treated fractures of the femur with the long splints; and exsected sharp points of bone and spicula. He speaks of four methods of reduction of dislocations of the hip-joint. The first was by rotating the limb in all directions. Was not this reduction by manipulation ? In’all surgical cases he exhorts the surgeon to act with caution, but with con- fidence, assuring him that such conduct will prove most pleasing in the sight of his Creator, as well as redound to his own glory. The works of Albucasis were held in very high estimation by the early modern writers on surgery, as we find them extensively quoted by Guy de Chauliac, Theodoric, Brunus, Gulielmus de Saliceto, and others, down even to the time of Fabricius of Acquapendente. Hot less than five and twenty editions have been printed, from the earliest at Venice, in 1471, to the latest at Oxford, in 1778. Avenzohar was born in the city of Seville, the magnificent capital of Anda- lusia, about the year 1070, and died in 1161. This celebrated Saracenic physician, surgeon, and pharmaceutist, for he combined the three professions, as lie himself tells us, though quite contrary to the existing custom of the period, is said to have been the most illustrious writer and practitioner of the healing art that had flourished since the renowned Avicenna. His distinguished pupil, Averroes,2 looked upon him as almost a divinity in medicine, and poured upon him unmeasured praise; as many passages in his works will verify, calling him his “admirable Master,” “the glorious,” “the treasury of all medical knowledge,” “the supreme of physicians from the days of Galen” to his own time. The father, and grandfather of Avenzohar were eminent physicians, and thus it would appear that he almost inherited his profession. Avenzohar treats of fractures and dislocations in a way that indicates no inconsiderable amount of precise anatomical knowledge. Indeed, he tells us: “ I took great pains, when I was young, to understand the situation of the bones and their connection one with another; and not only to be acquainted with, but with my own hands to perform operations, and this with a very great eagerness and appetite for the thing itself, as husbandmen and hunts- men are delighted with the exercise as such. I was rather fond of this knowledge, because some time or other it might be of use to myself or my friends, or to the poor.” Ilis works contain some very interesting cases: among others, a case of abscess of the kidney, or entire disintegration of that orgaip the capsule only remaining, and this being so much distended as to contain seven quarts of purulent fluid. He describes the symptoms and result of a case of abscess of the mediastinum, which occurred in his own person. This is said to be the first recorded case of the kind. In an after age, both Columbus and Barbette treated mediastinal abscess successfully by trephining the sternum. Avenzohar also gives a lucid account of purulent collections in the pericardium, and of obliteration of the pericardial sac by adhesion of its walls. Hone of the Arabian surgical authors speak as approvingly of the opera- tion of bronchotomy as does Avenzohar. He believed it to be justifiable in desperate cases of quinsy, under which term, in that day, croup and all inflam- matory diseases of the throat were included. He admits, however, that he had never seen it done, and that he had never attempted it, but, with the view of