ULCERATION AND STRICTURE OF THE RECTUM. 113 hot bath, followed by a hypodermic injection of morphia, is likely to be of benefit. The patient should keep the recumbent position, and take very light, unstimulating nourishment; no irritating purges should be given. If it be necessary to relieve the bowels of their contents, a flask of warm olive oil as an enema is the best that can be employed. I have seen very few such cases in this country, but they are not very uncommon in hot climates. The chronic variety of proctitis occurs in old people, and is best treated by injections of starch and opium, and by the internal use of such medicines as turpentine, aloes, confection of black pepper, and copaiba. I usually order frequent and small doses of Barbadoes aloes; these act as a stimulant to the rectum, and induce healthy action, and very soon the disorder subsides. Hamamelis is another useful remedy; it is in fact rapidly curative in some cases. It may be used as an injection, and may also be administered by the mouth. Ulceration and Stricture of the Rectum. Ulceration extending above the internal sphincter, and frequently situated entirely above that muscle, is not a very uncommon disease ; it inflicts great misery upon the patient, and, if neglected, leads to conditions quite incurable, and the patient dies of exhaustion unless extraordinary means are resorted to. In the earlier stages of the malady, careful, rational, and prolonged treatment is often successful, and the patient is restored to health ; but not so in severe and long-standing cases. Ulceration of the rectum can only be mistaken for malignant disease ; but with care and a well-educated finger an error in diagnosis should be a great rarity, though I must confess that I have made the mistake myself. As the earlier manifestations are fairly amenable to treatment, it is of the utmost importance that the disease should be recognized early. In the majority of these cases, the earliest symptom is morning diarrhoea, and that of a peculiar character; the patient will tell you that the instant he gets out of bed he feels a most urgent desire to go to stool; he does so, but the result is not satisfactory. What he passes is generally wind, a little loose fecal matter, and some discharge resembling coffee grounds both in color and consistency ; occasionally the discharge is like the “ white of an unboiled egg,” or a “jelly fish ;” more rarely there is matter. The patient in all proba- bility has tenesmus, and does not feel relieved; there is a somewhat burning and uncomfortable sensation, but not actual pain ; before he is dressed, he very likely has again to seek the closet; this time he passes more feces, often lumpy, and occasionally smeared with blood. It may also happen that after breakfast, hot tea or coffee having been taken, the bowels will again act; after this he feels all right, and goes about his business for the rest of the day, only, perhaps, being occasionally reminded by a disagreeable sensation that he has something wrong with his bowel. dSTot by any means always, but at times, the morning diarrhoea is attended with griping pain across the lower part of the abdomen, and great flatulent distension. All these symptoms are also met with in cases of malignant disease. When a medical man is consulted, the case is, in all probability and quite excusably, considered one of diarrhoea of a dysenteric character, and is treated with some stomachic and opiate mixture, which affords temporary relief. After this condition has lasted for some months, the length of this period of comparative quiescence being influenced by the seat of the ulceration and the rapidity of its exten- sion, the patient begins to have more burning piain after an evacuation ; there is also greater straining, and an increase in the quantity of discharge from VOL. vi.—8