FUNCTIONAL DISORDERS OF THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. 645 was drawing near. He had suffered years before from gonorrhoea, had been in the habit of indulging in moderate sexual intercourse, and had never had any reason to doubt his sexual powers. On becoming engaged to be married he became continent, and began to worry himself about a discharge which appeared whenever he went to stool; it varied in quantity, but was always present, even after taking aperient medicine. On examination, the tluid, as a rule, was free from spermatozoa, but now and then a stray one was to be found after a long search. His urine was cloudy and very acid, and con- tained crystals of oxalate of lime. A varicocele on the left side troubled him, and at his request was operated on. The operation was successful, and for a short time brought comfort, as he felt more sexual power. The condition of the urine improved, his general health remained very good, he ate and slept well, but the discharge continued daily, except now and then after the passage of a large metallic catheter. He had erec- tions occasionally, and, after a visit to the seaside, had much improved. He foolishly attempted illicit connection, and, not succeeding, became more nervous and desponding. He would not be persuaded that he was not unfit to marry, and that the discharge was not semen, but prostatic secretion. He was treated with astringent injections and the passage of a full-sized silver catheter, but declined the application of nitrate of silver with Lallemand’s porte-caustique. We are counselled by writers on the subject to gain the patient’s confidence; in other words, we are to induce him to believe that on many points be is mistaken—a difficult matter when be is persuaded in bis own mind that bis case is desperate. Pathological Anatomy.—But few post-mortem examinations have been made of persons suffering from spermatorrhoea, and then only in very advanced cases. Mr. Curling,1 in one instance, found, on post-mortem examination, “that the mucous membrane at the prostatic part of the urethra was swollen and injected. The prostate was nearly destroyed and converted into a mul- tilocular abscess, or a number of alveoli or cells communicating with each other; and the diseased mucous membrane covering it was riddled with holes, formed by a considerable enlargement of the original orifices of the gland, through which pus or altered secretion freely escaped on pressing the prostate. Both vesiculee seminales were infiltrated with pus, and their walls thickened by inflammation. The orifices of the ejaculatory canals were enlarged and abraded.” Pressure on the prostate by the passage of bard feces, or by the finger introduced into the rectum, gives pain. Although the irrita- tion of the mucous membrane is not the original cause of spermatorrhoea, it excites the secretions of the testicles and a morbid craving for sexual indul- gence, which is irresistible; it also acts as an excitant of the nerve-centres. Associated with the above changes may be found stricture of the urethra, in- flammation of the bladder, and either hypertrophy or atrophy of the prostate. Symptoms.—In some instances the penis is said to be large and hard, and the testes to hang low owing to the relaxation of the scrotum ; but in many cases the condition of the parts displays no abnormality. Neuralgic pains affect the testes, which are small, soft, and very sensitive to the touch. Bene- dict states that the electric sensibility of the testes is lessened, and that the urethra is hypereesthetic. General symptoms follow after a time, and are chiefly referable to the nervous system. The nutrition of the body is interfered with, and the patient is amende, and falls into a low state of health, becoming thin and Avasted, and indisposed to make any muscular exertion; even walking is attended with an effort. The face presents a peculiar, dejected look; the cheeks are holloAv; the complexion is pale and pasty-looking; the skin yellow; the eyes sunken and surrounded by dark rings. The patient be- comes morose and unsociable, indolent and unfit for muscular exertion, and Op. cit., p. 492.