OVARIAN AND UTERINE TUMORS. 814 York Woman’s Hospital; one in my own hands, the others in those of two of my fellow colleagues who are dexterous and experienced operators. In oach case perforation occurred at the fundus, and death rapidly ensued from septic peritonitis. As the tumor is separated from its capsule or its uterine nidus, it is drawn down and out, segments being'cut off by scissors if it is too large for easy delivery. The uterus is then washed out with hot carbolized water (not with bichloride solutions), and the cavity stuffed lightly with aseptic cotton, which in twenty-four hours is to be changed. Gradual firm traction is advised by Dr. Emmet for the removal of sub- mucous or pedunculated tumors; and he reports a number of cases in detail1 where this seems to have rapidly hastened natural expulsion by the womb. As the growth descends, it is cut off piecemeal with curved scissors, and ■ergot is given freely. When finally the pedicle can be reached, this is at once divided with curved scissors, and the remainder of the tumor is removed; the wound is then packed with aseptic cotton as above, and hot carbolized injections are used freely. The after-treatment in each method consists in the ■enforcement of complete rest, with the administration of morphia in modera- tion, and of liquid food and stimulants. II. Uterine Fibro-Cysts.—Until lately these tumors were thought to be ■exceedingly rare, but it is now* known that, in a more or less perfect state of development, they occur quite often. Their chief clinical importance is due to the difficulty of distinguishing them from ovarian cysts—a difficulty quite insurmountable in some cases—but in the future, as the application of laparo- tomy to the treatment of uterine outgrowths becomes clearer, this embarrass- ment will be of less import. In the vast majority of cases this neoplasm is simply a subperitoneal fibroid undergoing the process of softening; cystic degeneration is an error of terms, as no cyst-walls line the cavities thus formed. These are simply dilatations of the interspaces between the bundles of fibrous tissue, which fill with serum, and grow larger by the occasional breaking down of the trabeculae between them. The fluid, which is probably true blood-serum, with a little mucin mixed with it, coagulates spontaneously on exposure to the air—a sign which Atlee thought prima-facie evidence of the existence of a fibro-cyst. Spiegelberg, Atlee, Wells, and Peaslee have all recorded cases of this exact description. The anatomical appearance is that of a subserous fibroma, with firm fibrous base, arising by either a pedicle or a sessile base from the uterus. The upper part of the growth is softer, expanded, very elastic, and dimly fluctuating on palpation; of a duskier red or bluish color externally; not collapsing when tapped, but when opened seen to consist of many small cavities filled with bloody serum and flaky deposit. This explains the sensation of softening and imperfect fluctuation which these tumors always give when palpated. The only symptoms to which they give rise are those of subperitoneal fibroids; their growth is variable, sometimes rapid, more often very slow; they do not influence menstruation; and they cause less detriment to the general health than ovarian cysts of the same size. Their differential diagnosis is most difficult; but usually their imperfect fluctuation, their mobility with the womb, their evident connection with the latter as demonstrated by a rectal examination under ether, and careful ex- amination of a little of the fluid withdrawn by aspiration, will suffice to in- dicate their nature. Their only treatment is extirpation by laparotomy. 1 Op. cit., p. 587 et seq.