581 VARICOCELE. The following is a short account of Sir William Bowman’s remarkable case of hrematocele, which seems to have formed in the lower region of the cord and upper part of the epididymis, where encysted hydrocele of the epi- didymis occurs:— A farmer, aged 60, was thrown from his horse and received a blow on the scrotum. A tumor appeared which occupied the left inguinal canal, was irreducible, without impulse or symptoms of strangulation, and was much ecchymosed. After the subsi- dence of the acute symptoms, a chronic swelling about the size of an egg remained. The inguinal glands never became enlarged. The tumor remained quiescent for six years, and then rapidly increased after exertion, from a fresh extravasation of blood. Fluctuation was so evident that it was twice punctured; the last operation set up acute symptoms, and the tumor became tympanitic and gave a splashing sound when shaken. It was of large size, reaching to the patella, oval in shape, and extremely heavy. Its neck ran up into the inguinal canal. The skin was dark-colored and covered with enor- mous veins ; the mass felt solid, with here and there a doubtful sense of fluctuation. The contents of the haematocele filled two large washhand basins. The walls, which were universally adherent, were so thick that they did not collapse, and the patient was too weak to allow of the removal of the whole mass. The right testicle and tunica vagi- nalis, situated at the lower part of the scrotum, could be readily felt, and were free from adhesions.1 Early removal is indicated in these cases, as they show a tendency to in- crease, and hut little to get well spontaneously. Intra-testicular Hematocele.—MM. Cornil and Ranvier, with M. Cogue, have described two cases of htematocele of the testicle itself:— There was a large, old-standing haematocele in the tunica vaginalis. In the centre of the testicle they discovered an old, partly decolorized clot, about the size of a small apple, which was traversed by thick-walled bloodvessels. Seminiferous tubes were implicated in the clot and spread out on its surface. The substance of the testicle in the immediate vicinity of the clot showed signs of inflammation, and exhibited a num- ber of round embryonic cells. M. Beraud2 suggests that the bloodvessels arranged in a network on the testicular surface of the tunica albuginea, are liable when injured to give rise to a parenchymatous haematocele, and narrates two cases. The pain is very severe at the time of the accident, and persists for some time afterwards. The testicle remains swollen after the accompanying vaginal haematocele has been evacuated, and the tunica albuginea, presenting itself at the incision, even- tually gives way and allows seminal tubules mixed with blood clot to pro- trude. An incision with strict antiseptic precautions should be made, in a case of this kind, if absolute rest, repeated punctures with a hydrocele-trocar, and the usual applications to procure absorption should fail. Varicocele. Varicocele, or cirsocele, is the term applied to a dilated and varicose condi- tion of the spermatic veins, which become thickened, elongated, dilated, and very tortuous. It is a common complaint, usually attacking the left side. According to Sir A. Cooper, it hardly deserves the title of a disease, and in this opinion Sir James Paget agrees, as most cases are unattended by either pain or diminution of the virile powders. In some instances, however, the pain and mental worry caused by the swelling are excessive, rendering the patient 1 Medico-Chir. Trans., vol. xxxiii. p. 233. 2 Arcli. Gen. de Med., 4e ser., t. xxv. p. 281.