NEURALGIA OF THE RECTUM—IRRITABLE RECTUM. 143 injections of soap-suds and oil may be administered to get rid of the enor- mous quantities of feces that will come down from the colon. It often takes time before the rectum can recover its power after its great distension, and therefore reaccumulation must be guarded against by injecting cold water, kneading the abdomen, and giving nux vomica with decoction of aloes. Exercise in the open air should be taken daily, and the diet should be moderate and simple. In the diagnosis between impaction and malignant disease, two points are of extreme importance. The tirst is, that in impaction the tumor differs in size and shape from time to time. The second, that the tumor in impaction has a decidedly doughy feel, and is irregularly soft. When the tumor is in the rectum, the introduction of the finger will at once clear up the doubt, if there be any. Concretions in the bowel are rarer than impactions. They are usually formed around some foreign body. I have seen a quantity of human hair form the core of a concretion, the patient having swallowed the hair in a fit of mania. Biliary calculi are often found in the centre of these concretions. The strangest case that I have ever seen was one in which a sovereign, swal- lowed fifteen months before I removed the concretion, was found to be its nucleus. It is curious that large bodies, such as a set of false teeth with gold mounting, may not be arrested anywhere in the intestines, while a small body, such as a sovereign or a date-stone, may fail to traverse the alimentary canal safely, and may indeed set up ulceration of the bowel and perforation. Neuralgia of the Rectum. A pain in the rectum or sphincter muscles may be called neuralgia, when not the slightest lesion, sign of inflammation, or discharge of any"kind can be discovered, and when the pain is not aggravated by action of the bowels. This last is a most important point in diagnosis. I have more than once considered pains to be neuralgic which I afterwards discovered to originate from a structui’al lesion. Patients with rectal neuralgia are mostly delicate, irritable or nervous people, who have been subjected to neuralgic pains in other parts. I have noticed the attack to follow direct exposure to wet and cold, by sitting upon damp grass. One attack predisposes to another. Usually in these cases there is general debility with disorder of the digestive organs, mainly the liver. In treatment, the abdominal viscera must be first unloaded and put into condition, and then quinine, iron, strychnia, and hypodermic injections of morphia may at once cure the patient. In some instances, however, treat- ment only does temporary good, and nothing appears to be of permanent use. When the sphincter is the seat of pain, there is always spasmodic contrac- tion. Dilatation of the anus answers best here, followed by an injection of morphia. Irritable Rectum. This I believe to be really the result of a chronic inflammation of the mucous membrane, as it is accompanied by much heat in the bowel, and by tenesmus, as well as by a discharge of mucus. These cases are best treated by the administration of gentle laxatives and of alkalies with bitter infusions, and by insufflation of bismuth and charcoal into the rectum. When the irritability is allayed, injections of rhatany and starch, with small doses of the liquid extract of opium, will render the cure permanent.