667 MODES OF EXPLORATION. in the form of a cone, can enter. This method of exploration ought, accord- ing to L. de Sinety, to be reserved for entirely exceptional cases; although, having had occasion to use it, he has been surprised at the little injury done. Rectal touch is rarely employed alone. Vesical Touch.—Dilatation of the urethra precedes this method of examination ; the dilatation may be rapid or gradual. In rapid dilatation an anaesthetic must be used ; the means used for dilating may be simply the little finger, some one of the uterine dilators, such as Ellinger’s, or a polypus forceps; ISToeggerath advises a Holt’s stricture-dilator, followed by Busch’s. In any case, a little nick on each side of the meatus facilitates the dilatation. The means by which slow dilatation is best effected is a series of graduated steel or hard-rubber bougies, the dilatation being continued from day to day, or at intervals of two or three days, until the canal admits the index finger; dilatation by tents is to be rejected. After dilatation and examination of the bladder, a disinfectant solution should be used to wash out the organ, in order to guard against septic inflammation ; a solution of carbolic acid or of the corrosive chloride is suitable. Urethral dilatation is used for the discovery of disease of the bladder, of tumors, of foreign bodies, and of calculi, and in the diagnosis of uterine inversion if this be obscure, “ of absence of the vesico-vaginal wall, if there be atresia of the vagina, and of the opening of a fistulous track into the bladder” (Hegar). Dr. Emmet believes that the risk of urinary incontinence from urethral dilatation is too great to be compensated for by any advantages of this means of diagnosis. External Touch or Abdominal Palpation.—The patient lies upon her back, the upper limbs extended by the sides of the trunk, the lower limbs more or less flexed, and the head supported by one pillow. The abdomen is uncovered, although, according to Tarnier, a fine, soft chemise does not pre- vent clear sensations in palpating. The palmar surfaces of the hands are first applied with moderate pressure to different parts of the abdominal wall, accustoming it to contact, and thus preventing muscular resistance. If there be marked hyperesthesia, care must be taken to ascertain whether this be nervous in its origin, or if it arise from inflammation ; in the former case, light pressure is less tolerated than strong; and in the latter, the examination must be made most gently, or postponed ; very great nervous sensibility, or excessive tension of the abdominal wall, may require the use of an anresthe- tic, though the difficulty caused by excessive tension may in some cases be overcome by having the patient make frequent and deep inspirations, when, immediately after an expiration, the hand readily depresses the hitherto resisting abdominal wall. The condition of the wall as to thickness and consistence will be noted, as well as the symmetry of the two sides ; each inguinal region is examined as to the possible presence of a hernia, or of enlarged lymphatic glands. If a tumor be discovered, it is examined as to position, sensibility, form, size, consistence, and adherence to adjacent parts, the latter being learned by its mobility, and “by insinuating the fingers be- tween it and neighboring organs” (Hegar). A superficial tumor may in some cases be grasped by the two bands or by one hand, while a deep-seated tumor, as, for example, one situated in the lumbar region, may be explored by a hand placed at the level of the kidneys and pressing from behind forwards, while the other hand is placed opposite, upon the abdominal wall, pressing from before backwards, the tumor being thus included between the hands (Hegar and Kaltenbaeh). Ballottement usually results from a movement impi’essed upon a solid