61 TREATMENT OF INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTION. expresses it, enteritis “ is in most eases peritonitis, and something more,” I have no hesitation in saying that the remedy of prime importance is direct depletion by blood-letting. I have not employed general bleeding in these cases, but should not hesitate to do so if leeches could not be procured. I have, however, seen the whole aspect of the case changed by the application of leeches immediately over the inflamed segment of bowel. If the patient be a vigorous adult, at least twelve ounces of blood should be taken in this way, and the leeching should be repeated if the symptoms recur. After the leeching, the whole abdomen should be covered with mercurial ointment, and a warm mush or hop poultice then applied over all. At the same time, the patient should be brought under the influence of opium, and occasional enemata of warm water, warm flaxseed tea, or warm olive oil may be employed. No purgative should be administered by the mouth. If any marked tenderness persist the next day, a moderate-sized blister may be applied with advantage. The patient should take only small quantities of concentrated food, and if there be vomiting, it is better to rely upon nutritive injections. I cannot illustrate this subject better than by quoting Sir Thomas Watson’s graphic account of his own case:— “ I well remember,” be says, “ though it is now many years ago, being myself badly treated for enteritis. Being ill, in a strange place, I sent for the nearest practitioner, who happened to be a very ignorant man. Finding that I was sick, and that my bowels did not act, he gave me, for two or three days in succession, strong drastic purges, with no other effect than that of increasing my sickness and adding to the abdominal pain I suffered. I was then seen by a most intelligent physician (this was before I had paid any attention to physic myself), and the first thing he did was to have me copiously bled; and the immediate effect of that bleeding was to send me to the night-chair.” The course of treatment briefly sketched above is that which I would recom- mend in any case of obstruction recognized as depending upon enteritis ; and I will go further, and say that in any case of acute obstruction not obviously due to a mechanical cause, this mode of treatment should be given a fair trial before resorting to an operation. The special measures required by the different forms of acute obstruction, other than enteritis, will be considered presently, but I may refer first to cer- tain indications for treatment which are common to all varieties. In the first place, bearing in mind that the most desperate cases sometimes end in spon- taneous recovery, the surgeon should aim to obviate the tendency to death by relieving pain, lessening excessive peristaltic action, avoiding abdominal distension, and maintaining the patient’s strength. The most important single remedy in cases of acute intestinal obstruction is opium, which may be given either by the mouth, or hypodermically in the form of morphia. If by the mouth, the watery extract of opium is the best preparation, and may be given in half-grain or grain doses, every three or four hours, in com- bination with small doses of the extract of belladonna. The only objection to the use of opium is that by relieving the symptoms it may obscure the diagnosis, but when once the nature of the case has been determined, opium may be given with great freedom. It relieves the pain, checks the vomiting, arrests the violent peristaltic action, and under its use the tongue becomes moist, and the flow of urine is increased. The feeding of the patient is a. very important matter in all cases of intestinal obstruction. Only such food, if any, should be given by the mouth, as will furnish the maximum of nutri- ment with the minimum of fecal residue; indeed, in many cases it is better to abandon all efforts at feeding by the mouth, and to rely exclusively upon nutrient enemata. To relieve the thirst, which is so often a distressing symp-