221 L1TH0TRITY. ment-maker of London, in 1824,1 and by the French to Baron Heurteloup,2 in 1882. Heurteloup’s instrument, the percuteur, as perfected, is shown in Fig. 1203. A special couch was used by Heurteloup, by which he changed the position of the patient, and consequently of the stone. He had the stem of his percuteur so tixed that no shock should be communicated through it to the patient. Afterwards the table was given up, and the side handles shown in the figure substituted, that the hands of an assistant might receive the counter shock of the hammer and the soft parts of the patient be spared. The first instrument made by Weiss was simply a curved forceps, its hollow tube containing a small saw destined to divide the stone. In England the names of Stodart, Haygartli, Hodgson, of Birmingham, L’Estrange, of Dublin ; on the continent, those of Leroy d’Etiolles, Dupuytren, Touzay, Amussat, Segalas, and others, swelled the list of those applying useful modi- fications to the lithotrite. Screw power in the handle was soon employed to take the place of the Heurteloup hammer. The first actual experiments made with it were at the hands of Hodgson, in the Birmingham Hospital, in 1825, but it was not adopted at that date through fear of damaging the bladder by the fragments, as they flew apart from the jaws of the instrument under the pressure of the screw. The adaptation to the screw of the rack and pinion by Fergusson, in 1834, finally did away with this fear. Next came the ecrou-brise of Charriere, the French instrument maker, in which by a twist given to the handle the screw movement could be thrown on or off at will, and finally the instrument now generally used, which owes its corrugated light cylindrical handle to Thomp- son, and the sliding button which regulates the screw action to Weiss. All the lithotrites now in general use resemble each other in their essential features. The jaws are set nearly at right angles to the axis of the shaft. The male blade is more or less roughened ; the female blade fenestrated or flat. The old scoop-lithotrites with hollowed blades, whose function it was to bring away as much of the detritus as possible in their bite, after a given crushing, have been discarded. The solid back of the female blade is now only retained that the pulverization of the stone may be more thorough. All lithotrites possess the light, roughened, cylindrical handle,a screw move- ment with some mechanism to throw it on and off, and a wheel or rounded handle to work the screw. A marking in centimetres or inches, on the male Fig. 1204. Fig. 1205. Thompson’s fenestrated lithotrites. blade, indicates the extent of separation of the jaws of the instrument. Of the minor variations in shape and detail, there is no end, and they are not 1 Thompson, Clinical Lectures on Diseases of the Urinary Organs, 6th ed., p. 75. 1882. 2 Art. Lithotritie, Diet, de Med. et de Chir. Pratiques, t. xxi. p. 663.