816 OVARIAN AND UTERINE TUMORS. women who had borne one or more children. One of these (fatal after vaginal hysterectomy) was a case of sarcoma of the cervix, of which, in addition to the cases of Ivimert and Thomas above cited, Galabin1 and A. R. Simpson2 have each reported an example. In sixty-thpee cases of uterine sarcoma reported by Glusserow in 1878, twenty-five were in sterile women whose ages ranged from 20 to 70 years. Symptoms.—The s}Tmptoms of uterine sarcoma are : (1) Menorrhagia or metrorrhagia; (2) Watery discharges, pinkish and inodorous; (3) Slowly in- creasing cachexia; (4) Pain, which is trifling in the diffused form or early stage, but very severe in the later stages of circumscribed sarcoma. Diagnosis.—The conditions from which sarcoma is to be differentiated are fungous endometritis, uterine fibroid, carcinoma, and mucous polypus. From these the only distinguishing evidence, besides the characteristic cachexia, will be found in the microscopical examination of the scrapings removed by the curette. Even here the fact that epithelial cells are also removed adds to the difficulties of diagnosis. Prognosis.—This is always grave; and unless the disease can be recognized in an early stage and the entire uterus removed, it is always fatal. This is due to the peculiar tendency of the disease to recur in the same tissue, while it is indisposed to invade other organs. In fatal cases its progress is less rapid than cancer ; its duration has been variously estimated at from three (Simpson) to ten years (Gusserow). When recurring after removal, the de- velopment of the tumor is more rapid than before. Treatment.—As soon as discovered the tumor should be removed. After thorough dilatation of the cervix, the surgeon should carefully examine the growth and its base; if sessile or pedunculated, should excise it with scissors, knife, spoon-saw, or ecraseur; if diffused on the mucous membrane, should use the curette extensively and most carefully ; in either case should try to effect a complete removal of everything down to the uterine parenchyma ; should cauterize the base as carefully as possible with carbolic or fumiug nitric acid; and should pack the cavity lightly with aseptic cotton pads. When the disease is of the circumscribed fibrous form, and can be accu- rately diagnosed, extirpation of the uterus should at once be proposed as the only means of saving life. IV. Carcinoma of tiie Uterus.—By carcinoma or cancer of the uterus is always understood cancer of the cervix, unless otherwise specified; in 686 cases of cancer of the womb, carefully collated from different authors, Schroeder found only 13 cases of authenticated cancer of the body of the organ, or a little less than two per cent.3 Pathology and Mode of Occurrence.—A scientific classification of uterine cancer on the basis of pathology is as yet impossible ; and, for convenience of description, I shall retain the old-time division into: (1) Encephaloid; (2) Schirrus ; (3) Epithelioma. Of these it is customary to say that encephaloid and epithelial cancer are very common in the womb, while schirrus is extremely rare. But this only 1 Trans. Lond. Obstet. Soc., vol. xx. 2 Contributions to Obstetrics and Gynaecology. Edinburgh, 1880. 3 Hart and Barbour, Manual of Gynaecology, p. 464. 1882.