PUNCTURE OF THE BLADDER. 413 condition of the prostate gland may render the making of an opening from the rectum well nigh impossible. In cases of stricture of the urethra, com- plicated with urinary fistulse, with a perineum more or less disorganized by inflammatory exudation, and with but a remote prospect of establishing the continuity of the natural passage after relieving the retention, an opening from the perineum, directly communicating with the bladder through the prostatic urethra, is, probably, the best substitute for a urethra, which could only be kept patent by most persevering efforts on the part of both the patient and the practitioner. It was for conditions such as these, viz., irremediable and complicated strictures, that Mr. Cock,1 of Guy’s Hospital, advised the operation with which his name is most properly associated. Though improved instruments, and a largely increased number of skilled manipulators, have greatly reduced the number of cases in which it is necessary to substitute an artificial for the natural passage, there still remain isolated instances in which this operation is capable, not only of substituting comfort for distress, but of prolonging life. I am in the habit of occasionally seeing a patient upon whom I performed this operation some ten years ago. For five years previously he had endured all the vicissitudes which commonly fall to the lot of the subject of an at times impassable stricture. Since the adoption of this treatment, he has enjoyed perfect health and comfort, at the expense of micturating through his perineum. In the performance of this operation I do not think that the surgeon can do better than follow the directions of Mr. Cock. They have been subject to some modification by various practitioners, but I cannot say that any material improvement has been suggested. An operation which is likely to be of permanent utility is best described, in the words of the originator:— The only instruments required are, a broad double-edged knife with a very sharp point; a large silver probe-pointed director, with a handle; and a canula or a female catheter, modified so that it can be retained in the bladder. The patient is to be placed in the usual position for lithotomy ; and it is of the utmost -importance that the body and pelvis should be straight, so that the median line may be accurately preserved. The left forefinger of the operator is then introduced into the rectum, the bearings of the prostate are carefully examined and ascertained, and the tip of the finger is lodged at the apex of the gland. The knife is then plunged steadily but boldly into the median line of the perineum, and carried on in a direction towards the tip of the left forefinger, which lies in the rectum. At the same time, by an upward and down- ward movement, the vertical incision may be carried in the median line to any extent that is considered desirable. The lower extremity of the wound should come to within about halt an inch of the anus. The knife should never be withdrawn in its progress toward the apex of the prostate, but its onward course must be steadily maintained, until its point can be felt in close proximity to the tip of the left forefinger. When the operator has fully assured himself as to the relative positions of his finger, the apex of the prostate, and the point of his knife, the latter is to be advanced, with a motion somewhat obliquely either to the right or to the left, and it can hardly fail to pierce the urethra. If in this step of the operation the anterior extremity of the prostate should be somewhat incised, it is a matter of no consequence. In this operation it is of the utmost importance that the knife be not removed from the wound, and that no- deviation be made from its original direction, until the object is accomplished. If the knife be prematurely removed, it will probably, when reinserted, make a fresh incision and complicate the desired result. It will be seen that the wound, when completed, represents a triangle ; the base being the external, vertical incision through the peri- neum, while the apex, and consequently the point of the knife, impinges on the apex of the prostate. This shape of the wound facilitates the next step of the operation 1 Guy’s Hospital Reports, 3d Series, vol. xii. 1866.