ANOMALIES OF THE TESTICLE. 597 It is a question whether an operation is advisable in very young patients. Ry waiting until they are older and stronger, while the testicle would be of much the same size, the funicular process of peritoneum would be more likely to be obliterated. Operations on the tissues about the pelvis for the rectification of malformations are attended with risk, and are better deferred for a few years, when, if considered desirable, they can be performed with antiseptic precautions, which cannot be employed with a child unless he be unusually manageable. In a case dissected by Mr. Ledwich he found spermatozoa in the testicle removed from the perineum. Mr. Partridge, however, failed to find them in his case. Mr. Hutchinson met with a case where both testicles were in the perineum. The testicle at times makes its appearance in the thigh (ectopia cruralis), having passed through the crural canal. A careful examination will render the case clear, as an oval swelling the size of a testicle, situated just below Poupart’s ligament in the situation of the crural ring, will be observed, and will be elastic, and, if inflamed, tender to the touch. The scrotum on the side corresponding to the tumor will not contain the testicle, and will probably be deficient in development. An endeavor should he made to return the testicle into the abdomen, where it should he retained by truss-pressure. A case of misplaced testicle may be associated with a hydrocele or a rupture, and in the latter case may he still further complicated by the bowel becoming -strangulated. Retracted Testis.—Retraction of the testicle is caused by spasmodic con- traction of the cremaster muscle, and is either temporary or persistent. When due to disease of the kidney, to passage of a calculus along the ureter, or to prostatic irritation, the retraction is temporary, the spasm being sudden and confined to one side. Warm baths, sedative fomentations and suppositories, and especially the inhalation of chloroform, will relax the spasm and ease pain. Persistent retraction is met with in children, and occurs on both sides, the testicle being drawn up as far as the external ring, or sometimes within the inguinal canal, or even into the abdomen (Godard). The testicle can be readily pressed into the scrotum, which is properly formed, though in cases of long standing it may be undeveloped. The cause of the retraction is not .always apparent: urinary irritation, a kick on the pubes or in the groin, or a violent blow on the abdomen received when diving, has led to it. Cold baths, douches, and tonics are useful. The testicles should be manipulated daily into the scrotum, and retained there if possible with a Moc-main lever truss, with pads especially designed to meet the requirements of the case. Inversion and Reversion of the Testis.—The most interesting cases of inversion are those in which the epididymis runs along the anterior part •of the gland, instead of the posterior. The free, convex, smooth surface of the gland presents posteriorly, and, in a case of hydrocele, the sac would he behind the testicle, which might, if care were not taken, be injured in tapping. Testicular sensation will demonstrate the presence of the gland at the front part of the swelling, the epididymis being felt in front instead of behind. The vas deferens runs in front of the constituents of the cord instead of behind, as in the normal state.1 A testicle is said to suffer reversion when the head of the epididymis is situated below instead of above, the testicle being suspended by the tail of the epididymis. 1 Royet, De 1’Inversion du Testicule, p. 3T.