655 FUNCTIONAL DISORDERS OF THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. which eventually gives way to impotence. Troubles of digestion give rise to acid deposits in the urine, and in some instances to impotency.1 Some writers assert that in cases of pulmonary phthisis, sexual power and desire are retained. Godard makes the interesting and important statement that sterility may precede by two or three years the apparent development of tubercle of the testicle. Those, he says, who have hut one testis affected are sterile, though not impotent, their semen being deprived of spermatozoa. Certain drugs are said to act as anaphrodisiacs. Among these we find mentioned camphor, bromide of potassium, lupulin, and arsenic. Roubaud mentions that a man, aged 27, used inhalations of iodine vapor for six or eight months for the treatment of pulmonary phthisis, and that he suffered the total loss of his testicles. After a certain age frigidity sets in, but the exact time varies in different men. M. Duplay has found lively spermatozoa in the semen of old men, and men very advanced in years have begotten child- ren. In warm climates, where the abuse of the sexual organs has commenced in early life, and has been continuous, men are not infrequently impotent at thirty years of age. A form of impotence to which the term psychical has been applied, is met with in the newly married. A man who has been in the habit of indulging in sexual intercourse becomes engaged to be married, and ceases to have irregular sexual relations; when married, he finds to his dismay that, owing to excessive excitement or nervousness, he fails the first time that, he attempts to have connection. This worries him to such an extent that he remains unable to consummate the marriage rite, although during the time of engagement, and at other times after marriage, when the oppor- tunity for coitus is not present, he may have satisfactory erections. This condition occurs in the continent, but more often in those whose powers have been weakened by masturbation or excess. Hunter cured one such patient b}^ making him promise faithfully not to attempt to have intercourse until he had taken a stated number of pills. The man failed to keep his promise, but was cured of his impotency, which was due to mental causes. In another case a middle-aged man, who had been used to moderate sexual indulgence, married, and, failing to consummate the rite, became very despondent, but was cured by the exhibition of medicines which stimulated the sexual organs ; he did not, however, effect coitus satisfactorily until his wife had submitted to division of the hymen, and to dilatation of the vagina by means of a bougie. Belonging to this same class of cases are those occasionally met with, where the man is unable to have intercourse with his wife, owing to a feeling of repugnance, or a want of sexual affinity. In those cases of irritable weakness already alluded to, which are often due to masturbation, there is intense desire accompanied by an erection, which subsides before intromission, or does not last long enough for complete connection. The popular belief that coitus, in order to be satisfactory and to be followed by impregnation, should last a certain time, and that the act should be consummated by the orgasm occur- ring simultaneously in both man and woman, is founded on a physiological basis, since the reflex action favors the entry of the seminal fluid into the cavity of the uterus. The permanent or paralytic form of impotence is of great gravity; in this variety erections are absent; it is generally due to sexual excess, especially to masturbation. In some instances there is anaesthesia of the scrotum, which is relaxed, pale, cold, and pendent. The parts may be undeq-sized, the testicles being small, and softer than usual, with a diminution or absence of testicular sensation. A cautious 2^'ognosis should be given; in some instances there is no out- 1 C. H. Ralfe, Morbid Conditions of the Urine, etc., p. 109. 1882.