187 STONE IN THE BLADDER. intensity of the cystitis alone. Hence it is valuable as an early diagnostic sign of stone, and is generally noticed after exercise. It is rarely absent in children, frequently lacking in old men. In doubtful cases it may be recognized by the smoky tint of the urine, or even the microscope may be required. Hsematuria is so common that it has no value as a symptom, except when combined with others. 3. Sudden stoppage of the stream during urination is caused by the action of the stone as a ball-valve, the urine carrying it into the vesical oritice of the urethra. Children commonly present this symptom, while old men frequently escape for the reasons given above. Conversely, the symptom occurs some- time! in cases of pedunculated prostatic tumor, and in cases of irritability and spasm of the cut-off muscles of the deep urethra, the cause of the spasm being generally reflex, and due to some disturbance of the prostate, bladder, or kidneys, or possibly sometimes to a stricture of the pendulous urethra. Occasionally the obstacle to urination is so great that the patient has to assume some unusual position in order to urinate at all. Eve, of Nashville, lithoto- mized a patient who for two years before his operation had had to lie down when he wanted to urinate, and with a finger in the rectum push the stones in his bladder well up before the flow would start. One hundred and seven- teen calculi were removed from this patient by the cutting operation. 4. Pain in the bladder and penis is common with stone, especially in chil- dren ; old men may have little or none. When present, the pain is certainly aggravated by exercise. Encysted stones may cause but little pain. 5. The pain referred to the end of the penis is nearly as common in adults and old people with chronic cystitis without stone, as in those who have it. It is more intense with stone, and more often follows than precedes or attends urination. In young people, this pain, with tendency to pull upon the penis, is nearly pathognomonic of stone. 6. Pus in the urine is more often due to other causes than to stone. 7. Vesical tenesmus, very intense in children, and in adults and old men during an “attack of the stone,” is far from being confined to patients with calculous disease. It exists in many conditions of cystitis, from whatever cause, while its absence in the old man with a small stone does not save him from the suspicion of having calculus, or excuse the surgeon for neglecting to search. 8. Distant reflex pains occur with stone, pains seemingly having no direct relation with the nerves supplying the bladder. Hunter’s1 well-known case of the father of Lord Cavendish is in point, where a pain in the left arm existed as a reflex symptom of stone in the bladder. Pains in the back, loins, stomach, or thighs, may be due to vesical cal- culus and relieved by its extraction. Pododynia or podalgia, pain in the foot, is often a reflex symptom of irritation near the neck of the bladder or in the prostate, and may be associated with stone. It is very rare in young persons, quite common in old men, but more often absent than present in a case of stone at any age. It is a pain in the foot, usually the sole, generally occupying one of the phalanges or the ball of the great toe. This pain may be a sharp sensation, a feeling of burning, or one of intense coldness. When due to stone it disappears with the extraction of the stone, but it may exist as a symptom of vesical, prostatic, or urethral disease, or may be due to gout or to alcoholic excess when the bladder is quite sound. T. B. Curtis2 has col- lected a number of interesting examples of this peculiar reflex pain, among them Pitha’s own severe attack of cystalgia, which induced that distinguished 1 Hunter’s Works, Palmer’s edition, vol. i. p. 321. 8 Boston Med. and Surg. Journ., April 7, 1881, p. 316.