191 STONE IN THE BLADDER. and the tappings on the surface of the stone are continued as the searchev is withdrawn, until a certain tap clears the stone and strikes the bladder in front of it. The graduations on the shaft of the searcher, between the sliding collar and the meatus, mark approximative^ one diameter of the stone. The actual diameter is best ascertained with a small lithotrite, and multiple stones are best demonstrated by seizing one of them quite firmly in the jaws of the lithotrite, and using this as a searcher to strike one or more stones on either side. The size of a stone may often be estimated by passing one or two fingers into the rectum and feeling the stone between the finger and the searcher, or, in a thin person with a large stone and small prostate, by bi-manual pal- pation, one or two fingers in the rectum, while the other hand pushes down the abdominal wall over the bladder. With large prostate and deep bas-fond, a finger in the rectum will sometimes elevate a small stone within the reach ’ of the searcher. A stone may still escape detection by being encysted or situated in a hernial pouch, or behind an hour-glass contraction, or wrapped up in a blood-clot, or in a mass of mucus so as to yield no sound or sensation of hardness to the searcher. In cases of grave doubt, the bladder may be examined with straight and long curved sounds as well as with the searcher, and by lifting the floor and depressing the roof of the bladder so as to bring the point of an instrument into contact with every part of its wall. The lithotrite also would be of ser- vice in finding a stone enveloped in blood or mucus, as would extreme disten- tion of the bladder with warm water, and a change of position to throw a stone out of a large pouch or double bladder, if there should be any reason to believe this condition to exist. Furneaux Jordan,1 in one case of tight stricture, sounded with an acupuncture needle through the perineum, and struck a stone. But all these means occasionally fail when a stone is very small. In such case no searcher approaches the accuracy of the washing bottle and small metallic evacuating tube, straight or curved—the Bigelow apparatus for wash- ing in litholapaxy. Such a tube being introduced, and the apparatus so man- aged that not a particle of air enters the bladder, the swash of the water will certainly bring any small stone into contact with the tube, and the sharp click can be plainly felt by the surgeon or heard by any one placing his ear over the bladder. This means in my hands has proved successful in more than one instance when all other efforts had failed. Notwithstanding the accurate means of investigation now possessed hy the surgeon, it is still possible occasionally to overlook a stone, and in a doubtful case at least two examinations ought to be insisted upon before giving a final opinion; and the second of these examinations should lie practised with the patient under the influence of ether, and should be made with the searcher, washing bottle and tube, and lithotrite. Even then an error may be made: a small tumor, encrusted with crystals, may be declared to be a stone; or a calculus may be overlooked, lying in a cyst, saceulus, or pouched ureter, or shrouded in a blood-clot or mass of viscid mucus. The fact, moreover, is of record that the very best surgeons (Cheselden, Morgagni, Abernethy, Dupuytren, Chopart) have failed to find large stones in the bladder, which an autopsy has revealed, while others, equally distin- guished, have cut for stone and found none. To say nothing of a host of minor operators, the great Cheselden cut three times for stone and found nothing. Dupuytren, Roux, and Crosse, too, committed like errors. Surgical Enquiries, 2d ed., p. 284. London.