457 VITAL AND ORGANIC LESIONS OF THE URETHRA. Fig. 1329. Cicatricial stricture following chancroid. tissue. It is made up of fibrous and cicatricial tissue. The adjacent part of the spongy body is pale, but slightly vascular, and its internal layers partici- pate in the formation of the cicatrix. There is not found here that diffuse infiltration which I have mentioned as being present in strictures of inflammatory origin. The constriction is abrupt, and on each side of the obstruction the urethra quickly resumes its normal character- istics. I will mention, only to recall it, the third variety of ulceration admitted by Voillemier, a very rare variety, peculiar to the prostatic ure- thra, and which is observed only in old men in whom the prostate has undergone an increase in size. The two lateral lobes, which are most commonly affected with hypertrophy, are ap- plied one against the other in a vertical direc- tion. If, under these conditions, the mucous membrane which covers these lobes becomes inflamed and ulcerated, adhesions are formed, and an actual fusion occurs between the two lobes, leaving only a narrow passage at the lower part of the canal. Here the mechanism is altogether different from that which we have hitherto studied; we have not to do with a contraction of the walls of the urethra, but only with their appo- sition and adhesion. Strictures which follow traumatic lesions are much more common than stric- tures consecutive to ulceration, and they are found to be situated preferably in the bulbous and membranous regions; a fact which is explained by the causes which give rise to them—falls upon the perineum, or the action of foreign bodies introduced into the urethra. In the membranous region, the tissues of which do not readily yield to extension of inflammation, the cicatrix is ordinarily limited, almost linear. In the bulbous portion, on the contrary, inflammation developed by traumatism is very easily propagated to the spongy tissue, a plastic infiltration results, and the stricture produced is both inflammatory and cicatricial. It is rare that the cicatrix occupies the entire circumference of the canal; we have seen, indeed, that in rupture of the urethra, even in very extensive ones, there almost always remains a little tongue of sound tissue on the upper wall. But even when the rupture has been complete, the stricture is always thicker on the lower wall. In the commonest cases, in which the rupture is.accompanied by a more or less deep contusion, the canal is found to be included in a more or less thick, fibrous mass. On its internal surface there is observed a large cicatrix, ill- shapen, traversed by tough, elevated, or irregularly arranged ridges ; while externally the fibrous mass extends downwards to the skin, and ascends on the other hand to the cavernous bodies, a small part of which it involves. The alterations are sometimes so extensive, the contraction of the fibrous tis- sues so pronounced, that a bending and shortening of the penis is the result. It may be asked, in consideration of these facts, if strictures of the urethra can advance to complete occlusion ? Most frequently this is only seem- ingly so; there is only a temporary occlusion, due to swelling of the mucous membrane, or to a fragment of gravel or to inspissated mucus which has blocked up the narrow passage which had remained permeable. But it is well to recognize that, contrary to the opinion held by some surgeons, com- plete occlusion may be produced, when fistulpe have been formed which permit a ready escape of urine to the exterior. Voillemier has had the opportunity to observe six examples of this kind, and analogous cases have