899 NECROSIS OF BONES. irritation in the affected region; but this irritation is productive of ossifi- cation; it excites and maintains the proliferation of ossifiable cells. The periosteum is now in favorable osteogenic condition, and may be easily, and without danger, separated from the bone at the points where it still adheres. As soon as the periosteum is found in this condition, the necrosed portion may be removed, although it may not have precise limits. The duration of suppuration is thereby shortened, incarceration of the sequestrum in an ossi- fied cavity is avoided, and finally the patient is cured more quickly without compromising the regeneration of the bone. Lister’s dressing gives another reason for hastening these operations; by preventing inflammation of the wound, it prevents the renewal of destructive processes. The relations of the bone furnish also a guide for hastening or delaying an operation. If the bone concerned is the sole support of a limb, like the humerus or the femur, it is well to leave the periosteal sheath to become hyperplastic, and even to give it time to harden. A tissue already of the con- sistence of cartilage will soon be invaded by ossification, and may, with the help of a supporting apparatus, maintain exactly the shape of the limb.1 I insist the more on this preparation of the periosteum, because I have seen regeneration fail to take place in children in whom the diapliysis of the tibia had been removed for osteo-myelitis with small intra-medullary sequestra, without waiting for sub-periosteal hyperplasia. The extraction of sequestra does not constitute a resection; the operation is the same as for the removal of a foreign body. It has been given the name of sequestrotomy or necrotomy. Systematized and practised with temerity by David, at the end of the last century, this operation is at the present day one of the commonest in surgical practice. It differs much according as one has to do with a superficial seques- trum, or with a sequestrum incarcerated in thick layers of newly formed bone. Ablation of a movable sequestrum, superficially situated and covered by only more or less indurated fibrous layers, necessitates only an incision of the soft parts; but extraction of an incarcerated sequestrum often necessitates a preliminary operation, which in certain regions is laborious and difficult. It is sometimes necessary to cut with the gouge, chisel, or trephine, large openings in the bone, which is considerably thickened by the deposit of sub- periosteal layers of new formation. A small sequestrum, incarcerated in a region difficult of access, often requires a long and laborious operation, which risks breaking the bone if the needful precautions are not taken to control the position of the limb. These operations, practised upon bones hypertrophied by inflammation, have always been less grave than analogous operations upon healthy bones. The eburnation of the peripheral bone, and the obliteration of the medullary canal, altogether change the character of these osseous wounds. And they are still less to be dreaded nowadays with antiseptic dressings. If the extraction of movable sequestra is a totally .different operation from resection, it is not the same as regards removal of necrosed parts which are not yet separated from the healthy bone. If, for example, we cut away a juxta- epiphyseal or articular extremity, which is bathed in pus but still attached to the rest of the bone, from which it cannot be distinguished by precise limits, then we do a true resection involving the healthy bone. These resections for adherent necrosed bone are made necessary by the abundance 1 Scultetus (Armamentarium Chirurgicum), as early as the seventeenth century, removed the dead bone in a number of cases by incising the thickened periosteum, which he called cartilage. Cartier (Precis d’Observations de Clinique faites it l’Hotel-Dieu de Lyon, 1802), removed the whole diaphysis of the tibia while the periosteal sheath was soft and flexible. The limb was placed in a fracture apparatus, and the bone re-formed, preserving almost its original shape.