709 TUMORS OF THE YULYA. centimetres long, fifteen broad, and thirteen thick, and it weighed den pounds. Capelle’s patient was thirty years old, had been married ten years, and had observed for this time an increase in the right labium majus, until, in May, 1859, it was found that a lipoma occupied the space from the pubic symphysis to the buttocks, and reached to the knees; the tumor was thirty-three centi- metres in length and fifty in circumference; it was successfully removed. Bruntzel1 has narrated a case of labor complicated by a lipoma of the right labium majus the size of a man’s fist; it had been first noticed four years before ; a folded towel was used to draw the growth to one side, and the for- ceps was successfully used without injury to either the perineum or the tumor. Fig. 1401. Fibromata.—Solid tumors—fibrous, myomatous, or fibro-myomatous—may occur at the vulva. According to Hildebrandt they are formed from the subcutaneous connective tissue of the perineum and of the labia majora, and from the muscular fibres of the round ligament. A fibrous growth may be formed on one of the nymphse, as in a case reported by the late Dr. George Pepper.2 The size of these tumors varies from that of a pea to that of the fist, or may even be much larger, as in a case observed by Schroeder, in which the tumor was as large as a child’s head, or as in that of Hill,3 in which it mea- sured eleven inches in length and twenty in circumference, and after removal weighed nearly three pounds and a half. These tumors frequently increase in size during menstruation or pregnancy, di- minishing somewhat in the absence of these conditions. Tending to grow in the direction of least resistance, it is not unusual for a fibroma to become pedunculated, and the tumor, increas- ing in weight, may elongate the pedi- cle, so that the growth may fall as low as the knees. The removal of lipomata or fibromata is effected by dividing the pedicle, if the tumor have become poly- poid ; by enucleation, if it be attached by a broad base. Ah instructive case has been recorded4 in which extirpation of a solid tumor which had been observed for ten years in the left labium majus of a girl eleven years old, proved the tumor to be the ovary ; the patient died of peri- tonitis. Fibroid of labium majus. (After Storer.) Warty Tumors or Vegetations of the Vulva.—Papillary hypertrophy may occur at different points of the vulva, causing tumors varying in size, in form, and in number. They may be sessile, or pedunculated; separate, or united in a single mass—in the latter case resembling a cauliflower; their summits may be serrated—the cock’s-comb form—-or irregularly rounded, or 1 Centralblatt fur Gynakologie, 1882. 3 Indian Medical Gazette, 1882. 2 American Journal of Obstetrics, vol. iii. 4 Gazette des Hopitaux, 1851.