164 URINARY CALCULUS. Materials which Enter into the Composition of Urinary Calculi. The colloidal, albuminous, fatty, epithelial, purulent, extractive, and color- ing matters found in varying proportions in calculi, as well as foreign sub- stances introduced from without or coming from within the organism and forming nuclei, may be disregarded in considering the present question. Such substances as the urates of lime, magnesium, potassium, and sodium, and the carbonate of magnesium, which may occur in minute proportions mixed with other ingredients of a calculus, only call for casual mention, as well as the earthy matters found as a trace—silica (Berzelius, Vauquelin, Fourcroy, Vena- bles, and others), iron, myeline, luematoidin (Ultzmarm), and cholesterine. When a calculus is found to*be formed largely of cholesterine, it is fair to sup- pose that a gall-stone has found its way into the urinary passages. An interest- ing article by Ludwig Guterbock1 details a case of extraction by lithotrity from the bladder of a middle-aged woman, of a number of calculi weighing thirteen grammes, composed of cholesterine, with a little uric acid deposited in an outside layer about each calculus. This patient denied having had any previous malady, and the stones were too large to have been introduced from without through the urethra. No biliary constituents were found in solu- tion in the urine, and, as the patient recovered, it was not learned how the gall-stones had reached the bladder. Guterbock refers to two cases previously reported, those of Faber and Pelletan (both in women). In the former, an autopsy demonstrated a communication between the gall-bladder and urinary bladder. Pelletan’s patient had suffered pain in the right side for some time before the two hundred facetted gall-stones escaped by the urethra—which they did in a period of eight days—but in Giiterbock’s case nothing pointed to previous biliary complications.2 The substances which form urinary calculus, constituting the bulk of the mass or well marked laminae, are the following:— 1 Gallensteinconcremente in der Harnblase, Arcliiv fur path. Anat. u. Phys., Bd. lxvi., Hft. 3, S. 273. 2 Prostatic concretions are not urinary calculi. Their consideration belongs to another article. Fecal calculus, so called, has been described, among others, by R. Williams (Lancet, Oct. 1,1881). A small vesico-rectal fistula existed in an old man with large prostate. Cancer of the bladder with perforation was diagnosticated. After death, ten drachms of hard, solid, fecal material was removed from the bladder, not coated with phosphates. No cancer was found. James Miller (Edinburgh Medical Journal, 1829, vol. xxxi. p. 61), in a letter to Liston, describes a curious fecal and urinary calculus as large as a turkey’s egg, which he extracted from the rectum of a child who had been operated upon for imperforate anus, and in whom a communication existed between the rectum and bladder. The stone had to be bored into and crushed, and the anus and rectum freely incised, before the calculus could be removed. The stone consisted of a nucleus of primitive greenstone which the boy had swallowed, a coating of the fibrils of the pencil of oats, such as Wollaston found in the spongy portion of human alvine concretions in Scotland, and an outer coating, from half to three-fourths of an inch thick, of urinary mixed phosphates. Miller refers to a rectal concretion described by Marcet (Essay on Calculous Disorders, p. 126), as found in the rectum of an infant born with imperforate anus and having also a recto-vesical fistula. This stone was composed of mixed phosphates. Among the irregular substances found as calculi, stones introduced from without must not be lost sight of. Under the title “ De la gravelle urinaire simulee et de ses rapports chez la femme avec l’hysterie,” Brongniart has collated twenty histories of cases full of curious interest in the Ann. des Org. Genito-Urinaires, Nov. 1883, p. 747. Urinary calculi in animals are occasionally reported. Ebstein’s recent scientific treatise on the Nature and Treatment of Urinary Calculus (Wiesbaden, 1884), discusses this subject quite fully. The Trans. Path. Soc. Lond., vol. xxxiv. p. 326, refers to a stone taken from the bladder of an ass and one from the bladder of a dog, both of carbonate of lime. I have a small box full of minute calculi of carbonate of lime, passed by a bull. Dr. D. G. Sutherland, of East Saginaw, Mich., presented me with a portion of a five-ounce urinary calculus of carbonate of lime cut from a mare on January 24, 1884. The animal survived. Mehu gives the analysis of four calculi of carbonate of lime from the bladder of a rabbit in Ann. des Organes Genito- Urinaires, t. i. No. 7, 1883, p. 454.