INJURIES AND DISEASES OP THE RECTUM. 118 balsam, zinc (the permanganate), copper, iron, nitrate of silver, etc. The last, carefully used in not too strong solution, is one of the most admirable appli- cations, often inducing in an ulcer a healthy appearance, and causing granu- lation ; so too, is the tartrate of iron in the proportion of ten grains to the ounce of water. Fuming nitric acid, and strong carbolic or chromic acid, applied under certain conditions, are potent remedies; they often allay pain and start healing processes afresh, hut they are double-edged tools, and must be used with great discretion, and with a distinct object in view. In ulceration, when the least stricture exists, soft bougies may be always employed, but it must be remembered that to do any good they must he used with the greatest gentleness. A bougie of too large a size should never be employed ; no greater mistake can be made than to suppose that the larger the bougie that can be got in the better; the surgeon should keep below the size that can be well borne, rather than at all above it; in the one case good may ensue, in the other, irritation and retrogression are seen to take place; a patient should never he given an ordinary bougie to use for himself, always an India-rubber one, and conical, if the stricture is more than two inches from the anus. But if the constriction is only about an inch or an inch and a half from the anus, the patient may be given a vulcanite conical tube furnished with a collar, to which tapes are fastened to keep it in the bowel, and also to prevent it from going up the rectum; it may be passed and worn at night, if its intro- duction can be accomplished without any severe pain. When strictures are slight, and not very long, hut annular in form, division in a few places with the knife, followed by judicious treatment with the tubes, may be very bene- ficial and even curative. The division I usually make at four points, and I take care just to cut through the induration, and reach the healthy tissues beneath, but not to go deeper; the bowel should be filled with well-oiled lint or wool for twenty-four hours, and then the tube introduced and worn, only taking it out for the bowels to act, and to wash out the rectum with some antiseptic lotion. I prefer Condy’s fluid or thymol, if the patient him- self applies it, as less dangerous than carbolic acid. I am of opinion that carbolic acid, if strong, is too irritant. In those cases in which the ulceration is extensive, and constriction so tight that a passage barely exists, or in which the lower part of the rectum is now merely a passive tube through which there is a perpetual leaking of semi-fluid feces, some relief maybe afforded by dividing the fistulous pas- sages, which are nearly always present, with the elastic ligature. The knife is very likely to cause severe hemorrhage, as the divided vessels can neither retract nor contract in the hardened tissues. Constitutional treatment here is of no avail. Lumbar colotomy is the patient’s only chance. Stricture of the rectum without ulceration is a somewhat uncommon affection. Its pathology corresponds, to that of organic stricture of the urethra; that is to say "there is an inflammatory deposit in the submucous tissue, and an accompanying spasm of the muscular coat. I have seen stric- tures of the rectum so tight that I could not get the end of my little finger into them; but when the patients had been brought well under the influence of an anaesthetic, I have been able to pass one or two fingers through easily. How inflammation and thickening are set up in the connective tissue of the bowel, it is difficult to say. It may be that straining to evacuate the con- tents of the bowel forces down the upper part of the rectum into the lower, thus causing an intussusception, and bringing the part within the grasp of the sphincter muscles; and I have often thought that this condition might be the starting point of the irritation. I have in some few cases had a suspicion