PROSTATITIS AND PROSTATIC ABSCESS. 375 neons sources of irritation, such as the passing of a catheter, its retention in the bladder, or even the passage of urine of a highly acid character. Chronic prostatitis is best relieved by the application of blisters to the per- ineum, and by the internal administration of iodide of potassium. Care should be taken to ascertain whether the urine is in its composition of a nature to irritate the parts over which it flows, and, if so, to correct this condition. Prostatorriicea.—This term has been used to designate a gleety discharge for which the prostate is regarded as responsible. I believe that it is often a remote consequence of follicular prostatitis, the follicles of the gland remain- ing permanently in a more or less dilated condition, which is favorable both to the production and maintenance of discharge on very little provocation. In enumerating the various exciting causes of this affection, Professor S. W. Gross1 observes that they are incapable of lighting up the affection indepen- dently of some pre-existing inflammation of the prostatic urethra. The dis- ease consists essentially in the flow of a clear viscid fluid from the urethra, following any kind of strain. The absence of spermatozoids serves to distin- guish this fluid from seminal discharges. The treatment consists in the removal, as far as possible, of the general and local causes of excitement. Dr. S. W. Gross speaks favorably of the internal administration of atropia. As the disease is maintained by an atonic and dilated condition of the orifices of the prostatic ducts, cold sitz-baths, the injection of a solution of nitrate of silver (thirty grains to the ounce), and blisters to the perineum, are means which, as a rule, will be found service- able. Tbe gloomy view which these patients sometimes take of their mal- ady, considerably adds to the difficulty of curing them. Prostatic Irritation.—There are certain affections of the neck of the blad- der which will be best referred to under this heading. Of these, the most common is that met with in gouty subjects, where the irritation is so intense as almost to amount to an inflammation. Many cases which are described as neuralgia of the prostate, are nothing more than illustrations of this affection. It occurs most frequently in individuals who, although possessing the gouty diathesis, either hereditary or acquired, have previously remained free from the ordinary indications of the disorder. Like gout affecting the great toe, the paroxysm usually comes on at night, and is referred to the neck of the bladder, which is often described as feeling like a hot ball. Though painful, micturition is irresistible, and spasmodic sympathetic pain often attacks one or both testicles, which are sensitive to the touch. The prostate is sensitive to rectal examination. The urine, invariably highly acid, deposits lithates, and contains mucus in excess. During the daytime the symptoms remain in abeyance, to recur at night with unabated force. The disorder usually merges into a chronic form of irritation, which is sometimes very persistent. I believe that the affection is provoked in gouty subjects by the extremely irritating nature of the urinary secretion which is in contact with the gland. After an acute attack of this kind, the prostate is often left preternaturally sensitive for a considerable period, and in consequence of this the patient dreads to exercise pressure upon it by completely emptying his bladder. Hence he involuntarily retains a water-bed of urine, so to speak, behind his prostate, for the purpose of protecting it from pressure. This I havq fre- quently determined by passing a catheter. Retention of urine under these circumstances is not only a fruitful source of chronic cystitis, but is also favorable to the production of vesical calculi. 1 On Impotence, Sterility and Allied Disorders of the Male Sexual Organs, p. 163,