INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE PENIS. 545 The end of the instrument pressing against the side of the penis, connection is made with a battery, the wire becomes red hot, and, as it burns its way through the part, its loop is tightened. Mr. Erichsen1 uses the galvanic ecraseur with great success in the removal of the penis, which is effected without loss of blood. A full-sized catheter without rings is first passed into the bladder, and is retained there during and after the operation. A narrow tape is then tied around the root of the penis, to compress the vessels and to steady the skin. The wire of the ecraseur is next slipped over the organ behind the disease, and is worked until the tissues are divided through to the catheter. The separated portion of the penis is then slipped off’ over the catheter, which is tied in. By performing the operation in this manner the difficulty of finding the orifice of the urethra in the burnt mass is obviated, and the tendency of the orifice to contract is prevented by the retention of the catheter during cicatrization. Amputation by the Knife.—Before amputating the penis, all hair should be shaved from the part. Some surgeons remove the skin by drawing it forward, whilst others preserve it in order to form a hood for the stump formed by the corpora cavernosa; if too much be left, it impedes the free escape of the urine and causes irritation. A tape or elastic cord is to be tied around the base of the penis to prevent hemorrhage and to fix the skin. The penis is to be put on the stretch with the surgeon’s left hand, and removed with one stroke of a catlin, taking care to cut free of the disease. The vessels—which are found, two in the dorsum, one in each corpus cavernosum, anti one in the septum— are to he tied, as also any bleeding point. The cut orifice of the urethra, which is readily seen, is seized with a pair of forceps, its lower or free wall is slit downwards with a pair of scissors or knife, for about half an inch, and the cut margins of the mucous membrane are stitched to those of the skin, to prevent subsequent contraction of the urethral orifice. Sir William Fergusson ampu- tated a penis by drawing it forward and removing it with one stroke of the bistoury, an assistant steadying the skin and compressing the base of the organ with his fingers. All bleeding vessels were then tied, and the lower wall of the urethra was slit up and stitched carefully to the skin. Some surgeons recommend that the corpus spongiosum should be cut long, either before or after the section of the corpora cavernosa, and left to project like a spout. When the penis is divided far back, under the pubis, in order to obviate hemor- rhage, troublesome to control owing to the retraction of the stump, it has been recommended to divide the penis from above downwards to the corpus spongiosum, and not to divide this last structure until the vessels have been all secured. Others securely fix the penis by passing a stout ligature or hare- lip pin through its body prior to its division. The operation is done easily and with little loss of blood by clamping the penis at its base with Mr. Henry Smith’s hemorrhoidal clamp, which is pro- vided with a screw. The penis is removed at the point selected ; the vessels, which are'readily seen, are ligatured; the pressure of the clamp is partly relaxed by slightly unscrewing it; any bleeding point is tied ; the lower wall of the urethra and the skin are divided, and their cut margins are brought together with sutures. Mr. Erichsen describes an operation for the removal of the penis, done by passing a full-sized gum-elastic catheter into the blad- der, where it is retained during and after the operation; a narrow tape is tied around the base of the penis, which is then amputated behind the diseased part by cutting through the catheter at the same time that the organ is divided. In some instances Professor Humphry cuts the urethra longer than the stump of the penis, and, having perforated the skin of the 1 Science and Art of Surgery, 7th ed., vol. ii. p. 939. vol vi.—35