124 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE RECTUM. When small portions of the rectum have to be removed, there are several ways in which this can be done, and the surgeon may avoid the dorsal in- cision and use a horse-shoe one around the dorsal circumference of the anus ; getting into the connective tissue, the flap may be turned forwards, the growth removed, and then the flap brought down and sutured to the bowel without sacrificing the sphincters. 1 have not myself met with a single ease in which I could attempt this operation with any chance of success, and I much doubt if it is very practicable. Mr. James Adams, late of the London Hospital, has suggested that colotomy should be performed prior to excising a cancer of the rectum. His arguments in favor of such a step are as follows: “ That in cases of any but the slightest degree the operation might prove incomplete, and the disease speedily return ; that after complete removal of the lower part of the rectum, the subsecpient contraction is often very great, and even at times quite intractable; and that in any case the healing of the wound would be much expedited and the local recurrence diminished by diverting the course of the fecal matter.” I have not yet tried the combined operation of colotomy followed by excision, but I am disposed to think that there is much to commend it. I have found in all cases of excision of the rectum, in those of others as well as in my own, that by the third month after the operation very great contrac- tion will have taken place, unless certain precautions have been practised. The contractions once formed are most difficult of cure, and in fact some are never thoroughly rectified. In all my cases, for years now, I have made my patients, after the expiration of ten or fourteen days from the operation, wear a vulcanite tube in the bowel. This is taken out daily while the bowels are acting, but at other times is constantly retained for some months ; the result is that no stricture or contraction of the anal orifice takes place, and that the patients are quite comfortable. In one of my cases a man has been compelled to wear a plug ever since the operation ; if he leaves it out for a couple of months, the parts re-contract. I. use tubes of three or four inches in length, one end conical to render the introduction easy, and the other ending in a broadish flange to prevent its accidentally slipping into the rectum, and also to enable it to be stitched to a bandage which keeps it in place. Aow what has been m37 success in the 36 cases in which I have operated since March 2,1874 ? Unfortunately, with the very best intentions, accuracy in all particulars cannot be insured in answering this question. Patients, particularly those attended in hospital, go away, and are lost sight of, but I have done all that I could to follow up my cases, and have fairly succeeded, as I know the result in 26. Of the 26 patients, 1 died about 4 years after the operation. 1 “ “ 3 “ 2 “ “ 2 “ 5 “ over 18 months “ 7 “ about 1 year “ 5 “ from the direct consequences of the operation. 5 I know to be still alive. Of the 5 living patients, one was operated upon more than seven years ago; the rest within two 3’ears. Of the 5 who died from the direct consequences of the operation (that is, within 14 days), 1 died by carbolic-acid poisoning an assistant unwittingly injecting a strong solution to wash out the wound the peritoneal cavit3T being open; 1 from secondary hemorrhage on the 10th or 12th day ; 1 from peritonitis, a few days after the operation ; and 2 from erysipelas. There still remain the ten patients lost sight ot; of these I can only sayT that they all went from ni3T care alter two months, when the earl3