CONSTRUCTION AND ORGANIZATION OF HOSPITALS. 1107 A general plan of the Johns Hopkins Hospital is given in Fig. 1521. The building marked F is on the south side of the grounds, and the ward-buildings shown in the plan, in the rear of it, are not to be built at present. The separate location of the laundry, etc., is to be noticed. In Fig. 1522 is a ground plan of the Boston Hospital. It is the rule that hospital buildings should be separated from each other by a distance not less than twice the height of their upright walls. At the Johns Hopkins Hospital this distance is three times the height. As a general rule, the direction of the wards should be from north to south, or from north- east to southwest. In very warm climates, however, there is reason for having them lie east and west, with a veranda on the south side. Fig. 1521. * Johns ‘Hopkins •Hospital ! •Baltimore *U* S *A* A B C D E F H J K L M O P R *Reference • Jjjminislraiiuc Offices, farfoak . flay m 4 flahtnh. a thing Sstaulishments. fl)/s<fensary and fltrug Store. in and fyomeshos Effort mints, ttfurses O-fomi. Sick ZlTards. Sic/l ZlTards isolation ZlTards, ffzc lure ■(Thcalrc and Studenh building, Oul-tyahenls Q)t<p arfmtnl. ZPJortuary and ^raj/UJorhm \om. ^[aundrej and ZJash-JJoase. Chapel. S (jrecn Jjoasa. We If i$raJt. of iy>.. Plan * of • Sifre * Johns Hopkins Hospital. Such arrangements as are shown in Figs. 1521 and 1522, localize the work, give a distinctness and unity to each service—surgical and medical—and form organizations that promote ease of management, while they disencumber the main administration department of much worry and confusion that must arise in a large and busy hospital, if all its affairs, internal and external, are conducted in a series of adjoining offices. The plan of organization should be considered beforehand, and, whatever it is, the arrangement should be such as to locate conveniently and distinctly each part of the service, and to prevent confusion. The administration-buildings in large hospitals should contain, on the first floor and in the basement, only the rooms to be used for general business purposes. There should be a general reception-room for visitors who come to do business with the superintendent; the offices, public and private, of this officer—and the latter room, if of good size, may serve also for the occa- sional meetings of the trustees; a large room, or suit of rooms, for a medical library ; an office for a superintendent of nurses, if desired ; and one for the