1046 ORTHOPAEDIC SURGERY. result, Dr. Macewen has been particularly successful in his efforts to render the operation one that is safe and easily performed, and has introduced an instrument—the osteotome—which is much better designed for cutting through the bone than the ordinary chisel previously used. The osteotome is made of the finest steel, and is very carefully tempered; only the part near the cut- ting edge is raised to a great degree of hardness, the remainder of the blade being kept soft, so that there shall be no danger of its snapping; it is wedge- shaped and made of one piece of steel, the end forming the handle being octagonal in form, so that it may be grasped firmly, and the top being fur- nished with a rounded, projecting head ; the side of the blade is marked with a half-inch scale, in order that the depth of the cutting edge below the sur- face may be recognized when the instrument is in use. In performing osteotomy on the bones of the leg, the limb i£ steadied on a firm cushion, one filled with sand being the most convenient, and a small longitudinal wound is made with a scalpel down to the tibia, at the point where the section is to be performed; the osteotome is introduced through the wound, and its cutting edge is placed transversely across the bone, into which it is then driven by means of a boxwood mallet. When the section has been carried far enough to enable the operator to fracture the bone, the division is completed in that manner; the fibula is next divided, if that bone is so much curved as to prevent the limb from being placed in good position* some slight bleeding will occur from the bones, hut no hemorrhage of any importance is to be anticipated. It is customary to adopt strict antiseptic precautions, but I have usually contented myself with taking care that the in- struments used were perfectly clean, and in seeing that the patient was exposed to no septic infinence during the operation ; as soon as this is completed, the wound is sealed with a pad of lint and evenly covered with a bandage. In order to keep the limb in good position, three light wooden splints, nicely padded, must be provided; one of these is placed on the inner side of the leg, and should be sufficiently long to reach from above the knee to the sole of the foot; a second is placed on the back of the leg, and the third along the outer side, the two latter extending only from the upper part of the leg to the ends of the malleoli. The first splint should be fixed so that it may re- main unmoved, whilst the others may be adjusted as often as necessary during the treatment; by means of small pads, placed between the limb and the back and outer splints, the pressure at any spot may he relieved or increased as is found requisite. The after-management of the case is conducted just as is the treatment of a compound fracture of the leg, so that no remarks are called for on this subject; the superficial wounds heal up readily, often by adhesion,, and the case usually progresses, to use a familiar expression, without a bad symptom. Operation with Saw.—In the second method of dividing hone, which is now very frequently practised, the instrument used is a small saw with a double cutting edge, set at the end of a slender shank to which a pistol-shaped wooden handle is attached; this saw was used in 1869 by Mr. Adams, when performing for the first time his now well-known operation of subcutaneous division of the neck of the thigh-bone. With the saw, section of curved rachitic bones can very readily be accomplished; a small knife, shaped like a tenotome, and sufficiently large to make a wound which will admit the saw,, is first passed down to the bone at the point where the section is to be per- formed ; down this track the saw is pushed until it reaches the hone, through which it can be made to cut its way very easily. These two methods of performing osteotomy, with the chisel and with the saw, have superseded all other plans previously adopted. Some difference of opinion exists as to which is the better method; in my judgment each has