563 HYDROCELE. maker, informed me that he had struck the part shortly before coming the second time, and had so caused the early reappearance of the tumor and its want of transparency. When the extravasation of blood is extensive, a hsematocele will result. It is sometimes convenient to illuminate one side of the swelling, and to look through it by means of a stethoscope applied to the opposite side. It is of importance to ascertain the position of the testicle. This is generally situated two-thirds of the way down the tumor, at its posterior part, but at times, owing to adhesions between the visceral and parietal layers of the tunica vaginalis, or to the displacement of the testicle owing to the condition known as inversion of the testicle, the organ is found at the front part of the swelling, at the point usually selected for tapping. Dupuytren, having satisfied himself of the transparency of a hydrocele, made a puncture towards the anterior and lower part; but the testicle was there, and was pierced through by the trocar. Having withdrawn the trocar from the canula, he injected the tunica vaginalis; the patient recovered without further accident. Asa rule, it would be safer not to inject under similar circumstances. In the few cases of the kind which have come under my notice, I have felt the vas deferens running in front of the other constituents of the cord, instead of behind, as it generally does. In one case, a youth was suffering from acute gonorrhoeal epididymitis associated with the effusion into the tunica vaginalis; the testis and epididymis were in front, the hydrocele being situated behind. In the second case, a young man presented a medium-sized, slightly tense hydrocele; the testis was to be felt distinctly in front of the swelling, and the vas deferens ran up the front of the cord. The symptom of transparency, which is so valuable when present, is absent when the contents of the sac are dark-colored from the presence of choles- terin or blood, or when the tunica vaginalis is much thickened ; M. Gosselin has found that swelling of the testicle also will cause transparency to be absent, but the Reason for this is not apparent. It has been stated by Arnaud and Teale that the sac of a scrotal enterocele may be so distended as to become transparent; it would also be tympanitic. M. Duval1 narrates the particulars of a case of subacute blennorrhagic epididy- mitis which came under M. Nicaise’s care, and which exhibited a tolerably abundant effusion into the tunica vaginalis, accompanied by total translucency. This was the more remarkable, since by palpation the dimensions of the testis and epididymis, which were considerable, were easily ascertained. The fluid removed scarcely equalled in volume the solid mass that remained in the scrotum. In an infant the hydrocele was com- pletely transparent. M. Duval finds th$t this occurrence is chiefly but not exclusively confined to idiopathic hydrocele. M. Nicaise says that it is due to the complete reflec- tion which takes place from the unaltered serous surface of the tunic bathed in the liquid ; a solid tumor with liquid may appear to be almost entirely liquid, or more liquid than it really is. The gland will be best avoided by ascertaining its exact position by illumi- nation and palpation. By carefully pressing on the different parts of the swelling, the patient, when the testicle is reached, will experience what is termed testicular sensation, that is, the peculiar sickening feeling caused whenever the testicle is roughly scpieezed; and the part will feel firm instead of fluctuant. At times the swelling is not of a regular pyriform shape, but is constricted like an hour-glass. Last season, a boy sixteen years of age presented himself at King’s College Hospital with a double vaginal hydrocele; the swellings were veiy transparent, that on the right side being larger than that on the left; they were both of the hour-glass shape, and presented an interesting exemplification of this condition, which was due to the unequal 1 Gaz. des Hop., Juin, 1868.