1156 APPENDIX. Alexandria was established, with Aristotle, the Master; Herophilus and Erasistratus, the great anatomists and physicians, enjoying the liberal advan- tages for the cultivation of science, and particularly for the dissection of the human body, which had been hitherto prohibited for perhaps all time. The knowledge of the structure of the human body which the dissection of its members and organs furnished to the surgeons of that period, must have resulted in great improvement in practical surgery. Very many of the anatomical names which are now in use, are said to be have been given to the parts by Herophilus. lie described the structures of the eye with great accuracy, naming the several membranes of that organ—as the retina and others—which names are still in use. The extraction of the crystalline lens for the cure of cataract is said to have been first performed by him. Erasistratus is reputed to have been a bold and skilful surgeon. “ In scirrhosities and tumors of the liver, he did not scruple to make an ample division of the integuments, and try applications to that viscus itself. lie followed the same practice in diseases of the spleen, which he regarded as of little consequence in the animal economy.” He invented a catheter for use in cases of retention of urine, which is the first one mentioned in ancient surgical writings, and which long bore the name of the catheter of Erasis- tratus. It was about this period that the healing art was divided into three distinct professions, viz : dietetics, pharmacy, and surgery. Some branches of the latter, at least lithotomy, were practised exclusively by specialists. As an evidence of the depravity of these cutters-for-stone, we are told that Tryphon, the usurper, had the story set in circulation that the young prince Antiochus the Sixth, surnamed Theos, was affected with stone in the bladder, and that under pretext of ridding him of this debility, the lithotomists were employed to perform upon him, with the understanding that he should perish under the operation. Xenophon of Cos, said to have been one of the followers of Erasistratus, has received the credit of having first resorted to firm ligation of a member for arresting hemorrhage. Mantius, a pupil of Herophilus, wrote a treatise on surgical dressings. Andreas of Carystus wrote on the union of fractured bones, and was the inventor of several powerful and clumsy machines for reducing dislocations of the hip-joint. After all, it does not appear that any great pro- gress was made by the professors and followers of the Alexandrian school of science, anatomy, and medicine. It is possible, however, that much that was valuable in surgical literature, as in so many other departments of useful knowledge, may have perished in the conflagration of the famous national library at Alexandria, in the time of Julius Csesar. During the first six hundred years of the existence of Rome, that city was entirely without physicians and surgeons, trusting for cures to spells and incan- tations. Cato the censor gravely wrote down the mystic words of incantation for curing dislocations and fractures of the bones. Public edicts were issued, “ discouraging all countenance to the professed exercise of physic, and recom- mending faith in traditionary prescriptions and religious rites.” Archagathus, a Greek^ from the Alexandrian school, practised surgery in Rome in the time of Lucius AEmilius and Marcus Livius. He was the first surgeon who practised in the eternal city of whom we have any knowledge. He acquired considerable fame, and w-as called “ the healer of wounds,” but using his knife and his burning-irons rather freely on the Roman rabble, he soon lost caste, and was banished from Rome with the ignominious title of “ the exe- cutioner.” About the year 96 B. C., a native of Bithynia, who assumed the name of Asclepiades, settled in Rome and acquired great celebrity as a physician and surgeon. Asclepiades of Bithynia must not be confounded