202 URINARY CALCULUS. It is not worth while to attack a stone in the bladder, however small, by the solvent method, whether through the mouth or by injection, for tbe former plan is far too uncertain, and the latter requires vastly more instrumentation, even if it could succeed at all, than the single sitting of lithotrity by which the foreign body can be removed. Acid injections are a valid and valuable means of local medication against tendencies to recurrent phosphatic accumu- lations. The internal measures in vogue possess a symptomatic value apart from their alleged worth, in that the effect of the alkali is often soothing, and they may be used in any case to comfort the patient, though he should not be deceived into hoping too much from them. Palliative Treatment of Stone. In some cases radical treatment is not justifiable. Such are cases of large kidney-stones and phosphatic renal concretions where nephrotomy is not practicable, and all cases of vesical calculus in which, from the size or other peculiarity of the stone, or from the age, disease, or other condition of the patient, operation is contraindicated. In these cases, whether the stone is renal or vesical, the general outline of palliative treatment is the same. Milk diet is often a valuable adjuvant to treatment, as is sometimes a de- cided course of alkalies, as proved by the many patients who believe them- selves bettered by taking the various advertised nostrums. The same remark applies to the use of the natural mineral waters. Both these remedies some- times fail on account of their diuretic quality, for the mechanical effect of too frequent urination, when there is a foreign body in the bladder, is irri- tating. The conduct of a case of this sort involves a judicious selection of anodynes and alkalies, rest, tonics, diet, and symptomatic local treatment. Much com- fort may often be afforded when cure is impossible. Selection of a Method of Radical Treatment. Certain general conclusions have been established by statistics, namely,, that the female tolerates lithotomy better than the male; the child better than the adult; the patient with diseased kidneys less well than any other. It has been proved, also, that the size of the stone influences the rate of mor- tality, and that an operation which may be best for one size of stone is less suitable for another. But statistics cannot demonstrate that one operation is better than another, simply because a given operator obtains brilliant results by a given method. There is no place in the literature of the present day for the heated discussions which flourished in France toward the middle of the present century as to the relative merits of lithotomy and lithotrity, as a general operation for all cases. The present discussion is narrowed down to more exact limits, and deals with special indications furnished on the one hand by the patient, on the other hand by the calculus, for the use of one or the other operation in any of the various modifications of each. Moreover, a new element has entered into the computation, which has not yet found its way generally into print as a factor in the problem of statistics and mortality ; that element is the new operation for stone—litholapaxy. Even Coulson, in his admirable chapter on statistics in his last edition, 1881, hardly mentions it. Enough material in this line has not yet been collected to seriously affect old statistics, but that it is an element which must modify them cannot be denied.