INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTION. 52 the stricture a pouch is often formed, with thin walls, in which ulceration and perforation are apt to occur. Perforation is, of course, usually fatal through the development of peritonitis, but in some cases a fistulous commu- nication is formed with the bowel below the stricture (fistula bimucosa), thus giving at least temporary relief. Foreign bodies, such as fruit-stones, are often found in the dilated pouches above intestinal strictures, and, by one of these foreign bodies plugging the orifice of the constricted portion, symptoms of acute obstruction may ensue; acute obstruction may also follow the forma- tion of a secondary volvulus, or the bending, or, as Mr. Treves calls it, “ kink- ing,” of the bowel at its constricted part. On the other hand, a patient may die from intestinal stricture, gradually sinking from exhaustion, without symptoms of obstruction having been at any time observed. Stricture of the bowel is more common in women than in men, and usually occurs in persons over forty years of age. Cicatricial stricture is met with at an earlier age than the malignant variety. Of 26 cases of stricture of the small intestine, collected by Mr. Treves, 10 followed ulceration (6 in males find 4 in females); 2 were due to injury (both in males); 4 were traceable to the changes occurring in strangulated hernia (2 in either sex); and 10 (5 in either sex) resulted from carcinoma. Of 8 cases of stricture at the ileo-coscal valve, 3 were examples of simple and 5 of malignant stricture, one in each category occurring in the male and the rest in the female sex. Of 44 cases involving the colon, 13 were of simple stricture (2 in males and 11 in females); 28 were of cancer (14 in either sex); and in 3 (2 in the male and 1 in the female sex) the nature of the constriction was unknown. The part of the colon implicated in these 44 cases, and in 54 others collected by Dr. Hilton- Fagge and by Messrs. Coupland and Morris, was the sigmoid flexure in 58, the descending colon in 11, the splenic flexure and transverse colon each in 7, the hepatic flexure in 9, the ascending colon in 2, and the caecum in 4. Sarcomata occasionally occur in the intestine, as do various forms of non- malignant tumor, the latter usually in the form of polypi; these do not, however, often produce obstruction, except by disposing to intussusception, in which case the occlusion is ordinarily of the acute variety. Chronic invaginations are occasionally met with, causing chronic and some- times only incomplete obstruction. They have been particularly studied by Rafinesque, who finds1 that of 55 cases in which the locality of the intussuscep- tion was noted, no less than 33, or 60 per cent., were of the ileo-caecal variety, and 6, or 10 per cent., of the ileo-colic, while 8, or 15 per cent.., involved the large intestine alone, and as many the small intestine separately. An important peculiarity of chronic invagination is that it comparatively seldom ends in recovery by sloughing of the intussusceptum ; thus, of 124 cases of spon- taneous separation tabulated by Leichtenstern, in no less than 94, or 76 per cent., was the process accomplished during the first four weeks, and in only 18, or 15 per cent., after the second month. The proportion of cases in which spontaneous separation occurs in chronic cases, as given by Rafinesque, is only 11 per cent. Traumatic Changes.—The occurrence of intestinal stricture as a result of injury, causing partial rupture of the bowel, has already been alluded to, but a more common mode, probably, in which external injury causes obstruction, is by setting up a chronic peritonitis, which leads to thickening of the serous coat of the bowel and perhaps adhesion of contiguous coils, thus interfering 1 Op. cit., p. 62.