17 FOREIGN BODIES IN THE (ESOPHAGUS. and is then opened by pulling on the handle as it is withdrawn, so as to sweep the oesophagus and entangle any object which it encounters. Similar instru- ments with bags of silk and gauze, or with rubber obturators to be inflated with air or water, and the like, have sometimes been employed These instruments Fig. 1174. should be used with due gentleness. Should the cricoid cartilage present any obstruction to their withdrawal, they should be pressed firmly against the pos- terior wall of the pharynx. Accidents sometimes follow the use of rigid hooks and coin-catchers. The latter are sometimes tightly caught,1 so that they become additional foreign bodies, requiring special devices for their removal, and occasionally oesophagotomy.2 Occasionally their use precipitates a fatal result.3 The mucous membrane is sometimes bruised in the bite of forceps. Erosions take place with the use of either the sponge or the horse-hair probang. Substances too large for safe withdrawal in bulk, can sometimes be fractured in the forceps so as to be withdrawn or ejected piecemeal, or be passed on into the stomach by peristalsis. It is possible that an operation like that of lithotrity might he practised to crush or drill through hard impacted bodies, especially when beyond the ordinary resources of surgical art, in the thoracic portion of the oesophagus. If at all practicable, all these manipulations should be performed without anaesthesia, as the voluntary co-operation of the patient is highly desirable, and sometimes all important. With children and nervous adults, ansesthesia is permissible when resistance is offered to the manipulations. Under all circumstances, and especially with children, it is a matter of useful precaution to bind the patient’s arms firmly to the trunk, so that he cannot use them to incommode or baffle the surgeon. When foreign bodies cannot he readily extracted, it is a common practice to attempt to force them into the stomach by mechanical means. This pro- cedure is perfectly legitimate with digestible substances, or those of a char- acter to favor their safe transit through the intestinal tract. While such irregular bodies as dental plates with teeth,4 keys, safety-pins,5 and forks, etc.,6 have been safely voided through the rectum, a copper coin has been known to excite fatal enteritis.7 Some forethought is necessary before making this irrecoverable disposition of the foreign body. In an emergency, the stiff stem of some plant—that of the leek being especially adapted to the pur- pose—the handle of a whip, or some similar object, may be used to push the foreign body into the stomach. The sponge-probang securely attached to 1 Adelmann, cited by Langenbeck (Berlin klin. Woch. 17 und 24 Dec. 1876) ; London Med. Record, Feb. 15, 1878 ; Holmes, Med. Times and Gaz., Jan. 13, 1883. 2 Ilolmes, loc. cit. 3 Crequy, Gaz. Ilebd., 1861 ; cited by Poulet (Demarquay’s case). 4 Several unpublished examples are known to me. 5 Packard, Philadelphia Medical Times, April 15, 1872, p. 26. 6 Adelmann (Congress of German Surgeons, Berlin, 1872), Medical Record, June 1, 1872. 7 Lee, St. George’s Hospital Reports, 1869, p. 219. VOL. VI.—2