877 TREATMENT OF BONE-INFLAMMATIONS. (infectious osteitis). We should begin by using local and general antiphlo- gistics when an acute inflammation attacks one of the bones of the limbs, and especially when it manifests from the beginning a certain degree of acuteness. In adolescents an application of leeches, followed by a purgative dose of calomel and then by mercurial inunctions, will sometimes succeed in removing the evil. But, if pain persists, if fever comes on, if the periosteum and the parosteal layers are the seat of a painful and progressive swelling, and if the terminal joints are threatened, it is necessary to act vigorously and not to rely too much on medical treatment, notwithstanding its frequent efficacious- ness in the period of onset. When remittent intra-osseous pains, with nocturnal exacerbations, are accompanied by fever and general disturbing phenomena, the surgeon must go to meet the inflammatory focus, and not wait until fluctuation indicates the formation of an abscess. He must make an incision down to the bone, through the periosteum, and must do it without hesitation, as soon as the diagnosis of acute osteo-myelitis or periostitis can be made out. The only rule to follow is to intervene as soon as possible by relieving the strangulation of the periosteal sheath, or by trephining the bone, that is to say, relieving the strangulation of the medulla. By acting thus, one may abort threaten- ing inflammations, which by a short delay would have brought on necrosis and would have exposed the patient to pytemic complications. These free incisions of the periosteum, practised methodically, in case of bones deeply situated and surrounded on all sides by soft parts, constitute a practice which I cannot too strongly recommend, as exploratory incisions in doubtful cases, as liberating incisions in cases in which the violence of the pain indi- cates strangulation of the inflamed tissues. If exit be given to a clear, ropy, non-purulent fluid, such as is found in the beginning of albuminous perios- titis, we should stop at this incision, insert a drainage-tube going down to the bone, and dress the wound antiseptically. If the liquid contain oily drops, if it be clear, we should not go beyond the periosteum; we should wait. The periosteum may become reattached, and the medullary inflammation be resolved. Nevertheless this aggravates the condition, and makes it to be feared that, serious manifestations may appear afterwards, due to suppuration of the medulla. In grave cases one should commence with incisions into the periosteum. Sometimes they suffice to stop the pain and to arrest the symptoms, even when the inflammation is central and evidently of medullary origin. But there are circumstances in which it is necessary to trephine at once, and to open the medullary canal freely ; this is when there is already pus in the interior of the bone. Trephining the bone in osteo-myelitis, which was practised by J. L. Petit and recommended by Van Swieten, was until very recently an exceptional operation. In 1838, Morven Smith published in America a series of cases favorable to trephining in acute osteo-myelitis,1 but in spite of these examples and the cases of Brodie, Stanley, Nelaton, Gosselin, and Boeckel, this opera- tion was seldom practised. In 1876, in a memoir read at the Academy of Sciences of Paris,2 I called the attention of surgeons to the multiplicity of the indications for trephining in inflammations of the bones, and I recommended this operation in all painful forms of osteo-myelitis. “ Trephining the bone,” I said, relying upon the results of operations which I had practised since 1861, “ is an operation ’ American Joarnal of the Medical Sciences. 2 De la trepanation dans les diverses formes d’osteo-myelite (Comptes Rendus de l’Acad. des Sciences, 14 Aout, 1876).