APPENDIX. 1182 year 1271, the foundation of the College of Surgeons, at Paris, was laid by Pitard, who was a surgeon of eminence. In fact, most of the great univer- sities of Europe were created in the thirteenth century. Of these, may be mentioned, those of Bologna, Padua, Naples, Paris, Montpelier, Toulouse, Valentia, Tortosa, and Oxford. The earliest medical and surgical teaching of, all these schools was essentially Arabic, or, at least, what may he not inaptly termed, second-hand Greek medicine and surgery. This was rendered available through the indefatigable labors of Gerard de Cremona, of Lom- bardy. He acquired the Arabic language, betook himself to Toledo, rich in Arabic literature, and “armed with this powerful resource, which none of the Occidentals since Constantine the African had possessed, he could not see before him so many Arabic works on all the sciences, without feeling an in- tense desire to transmit them to the Latins, as to a cherished heiress, says his naif biographer, and the rest of his life was occupied in making translations. Amid the mass of his translations are found those of some of the treatises of Hippocrates and Galen ; the work of Serapion, the hooks of Rhazes to Almansor, the immense canon of Avicenna, and, what interests us still more, the treatise on surgery by Albucasis. lie died in Cremona, in 1187, at the age of seventy-three, and left all his hooks to the convent of Sainte Lucie, in which he was buried.”1 About the beginning of the thirteenth century, certain independent thinkers began to appear, and by their teaching, example, and works, gave a new im- pulse to the science anti art of surgery. Instead of following blindly in the track of ancient authority, they began to use their own eyes, to act upon the dictates of reason, and to be governed by the suggestions of clinical experi- ence. Of these new lights none shone more conspicuously than Gulielmus de Saliceto, a professor, first at Bologna and subsequently at Verona, who is said to have been “a powerful man” in medicine and surgery. His work on surgery is still extant, and it affords ample proof that he was governed more by his personal experience than by the opinions of his masters. William of Salicet died about 1280. Lanfranc, of Milan, was a pupil of the last-mentioned writer. He prac- tised surgery in his native city until he was exiled on account of the dissen- sions of the Guelphs and Ghibelines, when he betook himself to France, first sojourning at Lyons, where he wrote his “Chirurgia Parva,” and after a few years taking up his residence in Paris, to which city he had been induced to go by the dean of the Faculty of Medicine. In 1295 he opened a course on surgery which proved eminently successful. In 1296 he published his “ Chirurgia Magna.” Death closed his career about the year 1306. Brunus, of Calabria, another surgical writer of that period, practised at Padua, in the middle of the thirteenth century. Guy de Chauliac was the most famous of all the surgeons in what has been called the Arabic Period. He was more learned than any surgeon of his time, or any of his immediate predecessors. He was a man of sterling character, pure in morals, fearless in the discharge of duty, eminent in the estimation of men in exalted positions. He was the physician of three suc- cessive popes, between the years 1340 and 1370—viz., Clement VI., Inno- cent VI., and Urban V. As Mundinus was the restorer of anatomy in the fourteenth century, so Guido was that of surgery at the same period. Pre- vious to his time, for the most part, it was a miserable art, practised chiefly by men of gross ignorance, being the acknowledged property of barbers and itinerant quacks. Guy was the first to reduce the art of surgery to a system, and to manifest a spirit of independent criticism. lie composed his 1 Malgaigne, CEuvres d’A. Pare, Introd., p. xxvii.