284 URINARY CALCULUS. both of which are happily very rare as after-effects of lithotomy—is more common than the former, for no matter what happens to the ejaculatory ducts, the power of erection usually remains if the testicles are preserved. But this is not invariable, as was shown by Civiale’s1 case of a man of 54, who became impotent after recto-vesical cystotomy, “ ayant perdu la faculte d’entrer en erection.” The older writers had this complication in view in advising the lateral and para-rapheal operations rather than a deep median incision of the neck of the bladder, their object being to spare the seminal ducts. Injury was often done to these ducts, according to Ledran, in the old operation by the appa- ratus major, so that the semen was not ejaculated during sexual intercourse, but escaped afterwards, dribbling away or coming out upon urination. A properly directed deep incision in the lateral operation, or in the bilateral deep' cut, falls outside the course of the seminal duct as it tunnels the pros- tate, and the testimony of all observers is of accord upon this point, that when harm is done to the seminal canals during lithotomy, its cause is to be found rather in the bruising and tearing violence exercised in extracting a large rough stone through insufficient deep incisions, than in any irregularity or excess of those excisions. A demonstration that sterility may be induced by obliteration of the vas deferens has been given by Goodhart,2 who showed, at the Pathological Society in London, a specimen illustrating the oblitera- tion of one vas deferens after lithotomy in a child. Malgaigne3 saw two cases of impotence following perineal lithotomy, and Aston Ivey4 one. Teevan gives also some testimony on this point,8 recording four cases in which after lithotomy there was no emission during sexual intercourse. Treatment in cases of sterility following lithotomy is unavailing, unless it be in a case where a permanent fistula is left behind, and the semen escapes through it. In such a case the obvious remedy is closing the fistula. 4. Perineal Fistula.—This disagreeable after-effect of the perineal incision has been noted quite often. It may be caused by general debility of the patient, whose vital forces do not prove sufficient to effect the closure of his wound; or by some accident, such as incrustation of the walls of the wound, detention of a fragment of stone, or some sloughing or ulceration of the wound which has followed the operation; or by the existence of a stricture in the urethra anterior to the internal orifice of the fistula. A fistula cannot be said to exist until at least six months after the operation has been per- formed, for nature occasionally takes this much time to close the wound. The indications for treatment are to relieve stricture, if it exists, and by diluents and local treatment of the bladder to purify the urine, should the latter be ammoniacal. Then the expedients may be resorted to of passing the catheter for each act of urination, or making pressure upon the fistula during each natural urinary act. Failing in these measures, the fistula should have its external orifice enlarged, and its track scraped so that the pyogenic membrane may be removed and the healing process stimulated; or the track of the fistula may be freshened into activity by passing into it at inter- vals a probe dipped in nitric acid or with a bit of nitrate of silver fused upon its tip. Finally, other means failing, the fistula may be cut down upon and its sides dissected out, the freshened surfaces being kept together and the catheter passed to draw away the urine. In some cases all efforts fail, and a permanent fistula results. 1 Op. cit., p. 579. Paris, 1838. 2 Trans. Path. Soc Lond., 1876. 3 Journ. de Med., Cliir., et Pharm., t. xx. p. 548. 1855. 4 Guy’s Hosp. Reports, 1st series, vol. ii. p. 26. 1837. 6 Trans. Clin. Soc. Loud., vol. vii. 1874, pp. 179, 180.