554 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. Vascular tumors of the scrotum are congenital, and may be removed by means of ligatures; or, if made up of vessels and fibrous tissue, may be dis- sected off, and the bleeding vessels tied. Malignant Disease of the Scrotum.—Epithelioma is the kind of cancer usually found in the scrotum, and it most often attacks chimney-sweeps; but Mr. Craven,1 of Hull, removed the scrotum, and with it the testicles, in a case of medullary cancer of its cellular tissue. Sir James Paget examined the sub- stance of a tumor, removed by Mr. Stanley,2 and found no epithelial cells, but bodies similar to those exhibited by scirrhus of the mamma. Epithelioma of the scrotum, or “ soot-wart” as it is popularly named, is well illustrated by the preparations to be found in the London Medical Museums. Before the introduction of the modern method of sweeping chimneys, this disease was common enough. The persons usually affected were the adult sweeps, who had been exposed to the action of soot on the skin for many years, but a few cases are on record in which boys engaged in the trade have been attacked. The disease is not met with in France, where wood is used for fuel instead of coal, and was said by Mr. Syme to be rare in Edinburgh. It is not prevalent in the Hew World, and is becoming a curiosity in this country. Mr. Henry Smith has recently removed from a man, aged 68, at King’s College Hospital, a well-marked epithelioma of the scrotum, which projected more than usual from the surface, and the presence of which was attributed to the irritation of tar, with which his trousers were constantly saturated. Paraffin also causes irritation and epithelioma. Fig. 1360. Chimney-sweep’s cancer of scrotum ; shows thickened, indurated, overhanging edges of epithelial growth. The irritation of the soot causes enlargement of some of the papillte of the scrotum, when a soot-wart forms which is attended with swelling and hardness; the parts when felt are indurated, the surface is uneven and covered with warty growths. There is an exudation from the surface.of the mass, which is rendered dark-colored by the admixture of blood ; this may dry and cake on the surface, or the surface may be moist from a free dis- * Medical Times and Gazette, vol. xx. p. 287. 2 Curling, op. cit., p. 629.