( 323 ) INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE BLADDER AND LECTURER ON CLINICAL SURGERY IN THE VICTORIA UNIVERSITY, SURGEON TO THE ROYAL INFIRMARY, LIVERPOOL. The bladder may be rendered physically incapable of retaining urine, by reason of penetrating wounds from without, or laceration of its walls from within the pelvis by fractured bones, or by rupture resulting from sudden compression exercised over it when in a state of distension. These are the more usual causes of this lesion ; instances, however, are on record in which it seems to have followed the use of catheters and such like instruments in the male, and of midwifery forceps in the female. Wounds of the bladder are classified as incised, punctured, lacerated, and gunshot wounds. Incised Wounds.—Owing to the manner in which it is protected by the pelvis, incised wounds of the bladder are of rare occurrence; the late American war failed to furnish an illustration of either this or the following variety. These wounds are generally the result of stabbing ; occasionally they are inflicted suicidally; and cases are recorded in which they were made by the patient himself for the purpose of relieving urgent retention.1 Sometimes these wounds take very remarkable directions. A case of Mr. Couper’s is recorded, in which a sailor’s knife, entering at the left buttock, was found to have opened the bladder. Post-mortem examination showed that the weapon, penetrating the gluteal muscles, had cut through a part of the great sacro- sciatic ligament, completely divided the pudic artery and nerve, and one vein, and, opening the bladder at its lower part close to the trigone, had made a wound large enough to admit the tip of the forefinger. The case further illustrates a frequent result of this injury, viz., diffuse inflammation of the cellular tissue of the pelvis, with acute peritonitis.2 Where wounds of the bladder have also penetrated the peritoneal cavity, a fatal result has almost invariably followed. The bladder has been uninten- tionally opened by the knife of the surgeon in the removal of tumors involv- ing the pelvic cavity. The late Dr. Marion Sims recently referred to this accident and its treatment in the following passage:—3 The bladder has been wounded in ovariotomy and in extirpation of uterine fibroids. This accident happened once in the hands of the great ovariotomist, Washington Atlee ; also in the practice of an eminent surgeon in New York ; and it occurred to me in the 1 Lancet, Sept. 4, 1880. 2 Medical Times and Gazette, June 14, 1879. 3 British Medical Journal,’ Dec. 17, 1881. BY REGINALD HARRISON, F.R.C.S., Wounds of the Bladder.