257 LITHOTOMY. which he used silver sutures. The case did not do very well. Bauer refers1 to a former operation done by himself, in 1859, and to the trigonum section, described in 1881 as a new operation by Muehlhauser, of Speier. Gross2 refers to a case in which Bauer extracted a stone and got a good result by the use of five wire sutures, but gives no reference. He also says that Noyes, in 1860, made a central prostatic incision, enlarged it bilaterally within, and got a good result with metallic sutures. Maisonneuve proposed a form of rectal lithotomy in which the membra- nous urethra was opened through the rectum, and the prostate and neck of the bladder approached with a double lithotome through the rectal wound. It has found no favor. Malgaigne attempted it four times. lie lost two patients, one retained a recto-urethral fistula, and only one recovered. General Considerations concerning Lithotomy.—The history of litho- tomy shows that all efforts to reach the bladder by the knife have been made through regions containing parts the wounding of which was not considered mortal. The track leads always through the perineum, over the pubic sym- physis below the peritoneum, through the rectum (or the vagina in the female), attacking the organ where the peritoneum does not cover it. The rectal operations have been condemned by general consent. The vaginal operation is in full favor for women. For the male there remain two sets of operations, the one approaching the bladder through the perineum, the other above the pubis. . Of the perineal operations there are in reality but two, the lateral and the median. The other methods are only modifications, the bilateral and pre- rectal forms of external incision, the bilateral division of the prostate. Such special methods as those of Buchanan, Ive}’, Smith, Wood, and others, are only varieties of detail in executing a method—not special methods. The median external incision receives modifications (medio-lateral, medio-bilateral) according to the incisions made in the prostate. Again it is modified in what is known as perineal lithotrity. The high operation is always made nearly in the same way, the variations being largely as to 'the opening in the bladder and the question of sewing it up. Selection of a Method in Lithotomy.—In considering the question of lithotomy relatively to a given stone, it is proper to ask what operation should he selected. In former days, and even now, an operator often selects a favor- ite method and submits all the patients whom he cuts to it. This is mani- festly unjust; unfair to the method, unfair to the patient. All operations have something in their favor, none of them are without the reproach of having defects under certain circumstances, and, although undoubtedly an operator grows more and more familiar with an operation which he has often performed, and does it better than he would another, yet it is manifestly his duty to familiarize himself reasonably with all operations, so that his re- sources during an emergency may be ample. Now, a stone is small, medium-sized, or large. Thompson’s dictum is generally accepted on this subject. A medium-sized stone is one which aver- ages not more than an inch each in two of its diameters. Thus a stone two inches long or longer might appropriately be styled a medium-sized stone, as far as the practicability of its removal by the cutting operation was con- cerned, if its two broad diameters averaged about an inch each. 1 St. Louis Med. and Surg. Journ., 1870 ; and Arcliiv f. klin. Cliir.. Bd. xxvii., S. 180. 1881. 3 System of Surgery, 6th ed., vol. ii. p. 758. VOL. VI.—i7