INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE BLADDER AND PROSTATE. 358 room can be readily obtained by bilateral section of the prostate, as is done for the removal of large stones. Possibly a median cystotomy may commend itself to some by reason of the diminished risk of wounding any vessel large enough to give rise to troublesome, if not dangerous, hemorrhage. It must be remembered, however, that complete ablation of the growth is the object of the proceeding, and that on the thoroughness with which this is done depends, its success. From a tolerably large experience of lithotomy and cystotomy,. I have no hesitation in saying which mode of opening the bladder gives the greater facilities for conducting manipulations within its interior. If a lateral cystotomy were found not to provide sufficient room to permit of the removal of the growth, supra-pubic incision might supplement it after the plan adopted by Billroth.1 In his case, the tumor having been removed, a. drainage-tube was passed through the bladder and allowed to hang out from the lower opening.2 In the female, dilatation of the urethra is the first pro- ceeding to be adopted, and in some instances this alone has given ample room. Where more space has been required, a median incision through the urethra and vesic-o-vaginal septum has been practised. Having obtained access to the tumor or tumors, we may now proceed to- consider the various means by which they may be separated from the vesical walls. In some cases, avulsion with the finger, aided, as in Humphry’s case, by the forceps, has been sufficient. In Crosse’s case scissors were employecL In the female, ligature of the growth has been more frequently resorted to than any other proceeding. A convenient mode of applying the ligature is by a double canula; in this way the loop can be slipped down to the attach- ment of the tumor and strangulation readily effected. From none of the reports of the operation does it appear that any serious or uncontrollable hemorrhage has resulted. Dr. Gross suggests that before resorting to any cutting operation irrigation- of the bladder might be tried. I have already alluded to a case in which a considerable portion of a villous growth was found impacted in the return- tube of a double-current catheter. Mucous growths or myxomata, identical in every respect with the mucous polypi of the nose, are occasionally met with in the bladder. The extent of their surface-connection with the vesical lining membrane is variable, the attachments of the growths being slight and fragile in some cases, while in others they involve a considerable area. They are entirely confined to the mucous membrane, being unconnected with the other coats of the organ. Hot unfrequently they are associated with more or less hypertrophy of the muscular tunic, a circumstance which is readily explicable. The symptoms to which these growths give rise simulate those of stone in the bladder. It has, however, been generally noticed that in striking con- trast to what happens with villous growths, myxomata are seldom accom- panied by hemorrhage. The bladder is irritable, and there is much pain and straining ; the urine usually contains mucus and an abundance of epithe- lium. Examination of the bladder by the sound, in conjunction with the finger in the rectum, determines the absence of a stone, and the probable pre- sence of a growth, which, in some instances, has been so large as almost to fill the interior of the viscus. In the female, dilatation of the urethra and direct exploration of the bladder with the finger can, generally, be practised. 1 Arcliiv f. klin. Chir., Bd. xviii. S. 411. 2 Dr. A. Patterson (Glasgow Medical Journal, April, 1882) has recently recorded a case of. lithotomy, in which, after making the lateral incision into the bladder, it was found impossible to extract the stone by this way. A supra-pubic opening was made in addition, and through this, a large calculus was withdrawn. The patient made a good recovery.