417 PUNCTURE OF THE BLADDER. hypertrophied gland are not, however, limited to cases in which it has been punctured and a eanula retained in the course of a paracentesis vesicte. In some of the cases recorded by Mr. Thomas Smith,1 the wearing of the supra-pubic tube was followed, after the lapse of weeks or even months, by a return of the power of micturition through the natural channel, indicating that for some reason or other the prostate had ceased to obstruct. To quote Mr. Smith’s words upon this point—one of considerable importance—“ cases are here recorded where in great prostatic enlargement the power of volun- tary micturition per penern was entirely regained.” That the substitution of an almost involuntary act for one in which all the ordinary as well as the extraordinary muscles of micturition are engaged, may be followed by a change of the nature of atrophy, in which the large prostate shares probably in a degree proportionate to the obstruction which it has created, is by no means impossible. Whatever may be the explanation, the good effects which follow the estab- lishing of an artificial drain for the urine are by no means limited to im- mediate relief, but are often permanently beneficial. Puncture from the Rectum.—In the last place, the bladder may be punctured from the rectum. This is an operation which has to a great extent been superseded as a temporary resource in ca'ses of retention, by aspira- tion above the pubis. As a permanent means for supplanting the normal channel, when this is rendered useless by disease, it is not generally to be recommended, for the reasons that (1) the presence of a eanula in the rectum is an obstacle to defecation, (2) the patient is necessarily confined to the recum- bent posture, and (3) there is great difficulty in reinserting the tube in the bladder, when this is necessary. When the prostate is not large, although this operation may be easier of performance, it is not as good an expedient as tapping the urethra at the apex of the gland; while, if there is hypertrophy of the prostate, rectal puncture may be impossible of accomplishment. Before the days of aspiration and of improved urethral instruments, this operation seems to have beeu resorted to with tolerable frequency. Mr. Cock’s2 communication on this operation is perhaps the most important which we possess, and at the time of its publication did much towards re- viving and popularizing it. In this proceeding the left index finger is intro- duced into the rectum for the purpose of feeling, beyond the prostate, the bulging posterior wall of the bladder. Into this the trocar is to be thrust, precisely in the middle line. This manipulation is most safely effected by either withdrawing the point of the trocar well within the eanula as it is passed along the left index finger to its destination, and then projecting it; or by first using a blunt trocar with the eanula, until the proper position for the puncture is ascertained, when a sharp trocar is to be substituted and the operation completed. After the bladder has been punctured and the trocar withdrawn, a second tube, with an expanding end, may be passed within the first to secure the retention of the apparatus in the bladder. (Fig. 1304.) The eanula is held in position by tapes passed through holes in its shield. By means of some rubber-tubing attached to the eanula, the urine is con- veyed away as it passes, and thus the patient is kept dry. It may be mentioned that the bladder has been punctured from the urethra through the cause of obstruction, and several instruments for this purpose have been devised, notably one by Dr. S. J. Kisch.3 Though it may be a matter of satisfaction to a patient to know that his retention has been relieved 1 Op. cit. 2 Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. xxxv. 3 Punctio Vesicse verrigt met den troiquart-catheter. 1849. VOL. VI.—27