HAMMER-TOE AND HALLUX VALGUS. 1041 the danger of thus substituting a new form of distortion for that previously existing has already been alluded to.1 Treatment of Non-con genital Calcaneus.—The reduction of the deformity ex- isting in severe cases of paralytic calcaneus, such as that illustrated in Fig. 1493, can never be completely obtained, but a considerable amount of relief can be afforded by overcoming the contraction in the sole of the foot, and afterwards assisting the paralyzed extensor muscles by means of an appropriate support. The reduction of the distortion of the foot is conducted in precisely the same manner as in the treatment of advanced paralytic equinus ; but in the state of calcaneus the surgeon has to contend with the difficulty arising from the posterior bones—the os calcis and astragalus—not presenting a fixed base to work upon, as they do when held by the contracted Achilles tendon in talipes equinus. After division of any contracted tissues that exist in the sole of the foot, a Scarpa’s shoe of the pattern illustrated in Fig. 1468 is required for the mechanical treatment; the heel-piece of the shoe must be elevated as much as possible, so as to throw the os calcis and astragalus as nearly as may be in their proper places, and the front of the foot is then raised by means of the cog-wheel in the divided sole-plate. The manipulations previously described for stretching the shortened foot are of great assistance in overcoming this distortion: they may be employed about four weeks after section of the plantar tissues lias been effected. When the foot has been so far restored to shape that the sole presents a good treading surface, an instrument must be used to which is attached a spring or elastic band designed to raise the heel in walking; a steel rod extending from the calf to the boot is jointed opposite the ankle, the joint being so constructed that the foot can only fall very slightly below the right angle ; from the calf-plate a rubber band may be carried over and attached to the heel of the boot, or a spring may be placed on the side of the bar, which will elevate the heel and take the place of the paralyzed extensors. In the treatment of sjmsmodic calcaneus, tenotomy is required if the contraction of the flexor muscles has existed for some length of time, but as a rule the deformity yields very readily to instrumental measures. Hammer-toe and Hallux Yalgus. The conditions of distortion of the foot that have been described as consti- tuting the various forms of club-foot, are capable of being classified into groups, and although no two individual cases of any one variety present pre- cisely similar features, yet the description of a typical case of each of the different classes suffices to convey a clear idea as to the general character of the particular form of distortion. But there are numerous other deformities of the foot which differ so widely in their nature that it is impossible to assign them distinguishing titles; the foot may in fact be distorted in almost every conceivable manner. Some congenital distortions are due to arrested development: one or more toes, or a considerable portion of the foot, may be wanting; or the ankle-joint may be imperfectly constructed and the foot be in an abnormal position on the leg. The use of improperly fitting boots will give rise to various kinds of deformity ; accidents, especially wounds, and burns or scalds, are a common source of distortion; and inflammation of the ankle and tarsal joints may also be productive of displacement of the foot. To this list of exciting causes numerous others might be added; in all the conditions thus induced, the methods of treatment employed in the reduction of the different forms of club-foot will generally be found of value, and a * See page 1015, supra. VOL. VI.—66