SCROFULO-TUBERCULOUS AFFECTIONS OF BONES. 933 drachms; distilled water, five ounces. M. Ollier rarely uses the pure Yillate’s solution. He dilutes it with from two to four parts of water. One may also employ more or less concentrated solutions of nitrate of silver, of chloride of zinc, of compound tincture of benzoin, of liquid balsam of opo- deldoch, of tincture of aloes, of balsam of Peru, of an ethereal solution of iodoform, of oil of eucalyptus—or simply of olive oil, as employed by Yallette, of Lyons—and of alcoholic solutions of creasote. This last sub- stance has been experimented with in clinical surgery, with the double purpose of exciting the tissues and of destroying the tuberculous germs in them, according to the ideas of MM. Gimbert and Pidoux. The results have not shown anything remarkable. Moreover, it has been employed only after resections, in open cavities, to modify the nature of the fungous growths com- ing from the synovial membrane—from the soft parts, as well as from the ends of the bones. In such cases irritating injections may produce all their effect, and they are generally of great use. The same is not true in regard to unopened cavities. The injection here produces a decided effect on the sinuses only, but it does not reach—or it does so only superficially and incompletely—- the diseased bone, and therefore does not modify the course of the disease. As antiseptic dressings render operations of exreresis almost free from danger, we should not lose time in using these irritating injections, even varying them. Early operation is an economy of time and of suffering for the patient, who, relieved of his bone-lesion, will be less enfeebled, and will repair his physiological losses the sooner. In fact, irritating injections should be reserved for the after-treatment of operations, if fungous growths appear and retard cicatrization. Apart from this, I do not believe that irritating injections should be systematically em- ployed in preference to the measures which I am about to mention, unless in case of a very limited and very accessible lesion, or in case of extreme coward- ice or feebleness of the patient. And even in these cases I should prefer simple antiseptic washings which would have the advantage over irritating injections of not causing the patient useless suffering. (b) Cauterization of the Diseased Portions of Bone.—Cauterization, says M. Ollier, “ brings about necrosis of the carious portions; it imitates the pro- cess by which nature puts an end to caries in many cases. It has the advantage over spontaneous mortification of the diseased bone of exciting an energetic irritation, a healthy inflammation in the tissues which surround the necrosed part.” The red-hot iron and caustics are the means by which cauterization is prac- tised. The thermo-cautery of Paqueliti may be used for mild cases, and the old, larger cauterizing irons, brought to a red heat, for cases requiring ener- getic action. The galvano-cautery is not adapted for real service in these cases. Among caustics, I will recall the numerous corroding tablets of the ancients, and will only mention, among modern caustics, nitrate of silver, chloride of zinc, in the form of Canquoin’s paste, the caustic of Filhos, sul- phuric acid, etc. Usually cauterization, whether actual or potential, does not provoke mor- tification of thick layers of bone, unless this is softened, and approaches, by its degree of medullization, the consistence of the soft tissues. On the other hand—and on this account I never employ them—energetic caustics may cause great and very dangerous disorders in the soft parts. The experiments of MM. Pasteur and Chauveau upon the attenuation of viruses by heat, give very great importance to the radiation from the red-hot iron ; and for this reason the old cauteries should be preferred to the thermo- cautery, as the latter gives but little radiating heat. Starting with this fact, I conceived the idea of proposing and practising