1170 APPENDIX. pointed out with clearness and accuracy the nature and diagnosis of aneurism by anastomosis. The only description of the operation of tracheotomy to be found in the Greek authorities is that given by Paulus, who says that it is taken from Antyllus, of the third or fourth century. A re tie us mentions the operation with disapproval. Cselius Aurelianus says that Asclepiades per- formed it in cases of cynanche (probably croup), but he himself does not favor it. Paulus, in his remarks “ on laryngotomy,”1 says:—- The most famous surgeons have also described this operation. Antyllus, therefore, says, “ in cases of cynanche we entirely disapprove of this operation.” . . . “ When, therefore, we engage in the operation we slit open a part of the arteria aspera (for it is dangerous to divide the whole) below the top of the windpipe, about the third or fourth ring. For this is a convenient situation, as being free from flesh, and because the vessels are placed at a distance from the part which is divided. Where- fore, bending the patient’s head backwards, so as to bring the windpipe better into view, we are to make a transverse incision between two of the rings, so that it may not be the cartilage which is divided, but the membrane connecting the cartilages. If , one be more timid in operating, one may first stretch the skin with a hook and divide it, and then, removing the vessels aside, if they come in the way, make the incision.” These are the words of Antyllus. We judge that the windpipe has been opened from the air rushing through it with a whizzing noise, and from the voice being lost. After the urgency of the sutfocation has passed over, we pare the lips of the incision so as to make them raw surfaces again, and then have recourse to sutures, but sew the skin only without the cartilage. We must follow the same plan of treatment if we should meet with the case of a person who had cut his own throat from a wish to commit suicide. There is no mention made of fracture of the patella in the works of Hippocrates or of Celsus. Soranus merely gives the symptoms, hollowness and crepitus in the part. Paulus is the first to describe it and direct the treatment:— The symptoms are obvious, a solution of continuity, a hollow, and crepitation. The fracture is put in order by extending the leg, for thus the divided portions may be brought together with the fingers, until the lips of the fracture mutually touch, and are united to one another, and fractured pieces, when separated, are thus arranged together. For even if callus does not form, owing to the parts being drawn in different directions by the muscles and tendons from the thigh and leg, which are inserted into it, yet the separation is much diminished. We find in Paulus a very curious and interesting chapter (Sect, lxxxviii.) on the means of extracting arrows and other weapons from various parts of the body, and also a description of the multiple forms of penetrating weapons then in use. Paulus quotes these lines from Homer:— The man of medicine can in worth with many warriors vie, Who knows the weapons to excise, and soothing salves apply. Warlike instruments, then, differ one from another in material, figure, size, number, mode, and power. In material, then, as the shafts are made of wood or of reeds ; and the heads themselves are either made of iron, copper, tin, lead, horn, glass, bones, and of reeds, too, or of wood ; and such differences are found especially among the Egyptians. In figure, inasmuch as some are round, some angled (or triangular), some pointed and lance-shaped, as some have three points ; some are barbed and some are without barbs; and of the barbed, some have the barbs turned backwards, so that in attempting to ex- tract them they fasten in the parts; and some forwards, so that when pushed they may do the same thing; some have them diverging in opposite directions like the forked lightning, in order that when pulled or pushed they may fasten into the parts. Some missiles have their barbs united by a hinge, which being expanded in the extraction, prevents the weapon from being drawn out. 1 De re medica, lib. vi. sect, xxxiii.