STONE IN THE BLADDER. 185 5. A tendency to pull at the end of the penis, especially in children and young adults, a habit which leads to permanent elongation of the prepuce in the former, and to masturbation in the latter. 6. Pus or stringy mucus in the urine. 7. Intense straining with severe pain during and after each act of urination, a pain often of agonizing intensity. These paroxysms exhaust the patient’s strength, and during them he resembles a woman in the third stage of labor. In children, prolapse of the rectum is a common result of this straining, with fecal evacuations during the paroxysms, while adults complain of hemorrhoids, pass blood by the rectum, and during the paroxysms suffer from unavoidable •escape of intestinal flatus, and often of fe.ces. The paroxysms vary in intensity and duration. 8. Reflex pains in the back, testicle, thigh, and not uncommonly in the sole of the foot (pododynia). 9. Priapism with, or more often without, sexual desire. 10. All the symptoms of chronic catarrh of the bladder, especially in the ease of secondary (phosphatic) calculi. Should several of these symptoms coincide in a given case, a suspicion of calculus is justified, but they may all occur when there is no stone, and stone may be in the bladder without furnishing any of these symptoms, while nothing is more common in old men than for the presence of stone to be masked by the ordinary symptoms of catarrhal cystitis accompanying enlarged prostate. Young people, as a rule, suffer more from stone than old ones. Their symptoms are generally more obvious, and an error of diagnosis from lack of symptoms is not likely to occur. With adults this is not always the case. I extracted by lithotrity a calculus larger than a pea from a gentleman who had passed it into his bladder during an attack of nephritic colic two months previously, and had not been inconvenienced by it in any way until a few days before applying to me. In many instances I have removed primary smooth stones of considerable size where the patients have been posi- tive that their symptoms only dated back a year or more, while a careful cross-questioning has been able to place the date of origin of the stone a number of years before, at some well-remembered attack of marked nephritic colic not followed by an escape of stone from the urethra. In one case a gentleman applied to me for relief from slight irritability of the bladder, of recent occurrence. His urine was heavy, contained crystals of uric acid, and a few pus-cells. An alkaline diluent was ordered, and he was relieved and believed him- self well. After many months frequency of urination recurred, and then a search revealed the fact that the bladder was full of small calculi. I washed out six of these, as large as peas, through a Bigelow tube in my office, and felt many more larger ones rattling against it. This manoeuvre so relieved the patient that he pronounced himself well, and declined to submit to further instrumentation, and this in spite of my strongest assertions that the bladder still contained stone. He simply declined to believe it, although I had felt them and made him hear the sound. A youth of about 18, with a congenitally long, tight prepuce, intensely nervous, and a masturbator, applied to me, complaining that he passed water too often, and was obliged to pull upon the penis and scratch the under surface of the urethra and the perineum during and after the act of urination, and to practise masturbation. He had no pain, no tenesmus, nor other symptom. The urine was not perfectly clear, but was no more purulent than might be expected in one who habitually urinated too often. As a first and necessary step in the case, I suggested circumcision. This was done, but no improvement followed. The patient was then searched, and a stone over an inch in diameter found and removed.