LITIIOTRITY. 231 blade goes around the foreign body and incloses it, after which the perforat- ing male blade is advanced. Fig. 1220. Mathieu’s instrument for perforating urethral calculi. (5) Cystitis.—A moderate amount of superficial cystitis was not unusual after old-fashioned lithotrity, if the fragments left after the first crushing were large. It was indeed this well-known tendency which induced the English surgeons present at the meeting of the Royal Medical and Chirurgical Society of London, in 1878,1 to lean toward the conclusion that lithotrity had been pushed too far; that, except for small stones, lithotomy was a better operation; and that in the future more stones should be cut for, and fewer crushed. And it was partly by reasoning upon the same premises that Bigelow had at about the same date reached exactly the opposite conclusion, namely, that a stone, however large, was suitable for lithotrity, provided that it could all be re- moved from the bladder at one sitting. Bigelow’s solution of the problem wTas the invention of litholapaxy. As matters stand to-day, therefore, the question of cystitis after lithotrity is not a serious one. Large stones are no longer dealt with by old-fashioned lithotrity, and much cystitis does not follow upon crushing a small stone. Litholapaxy, on the other hand, leaves the bladder empty, and the most im- portant causative factor of cystitis is removed. The treatment of cystitis following lithotrity is the same as that of cystitis from other causes—rest in bed, hot applications locally and hot baths, alka- lies and diluents by the stomach, anodynes as may be required—with use of the catheter and vesical injections in appropriate eases. If it so happen that fragments of any considerable size are left, in the bladder, and that cystitis of a high grade supervenes, the surgeon’s duty is plain. He must relieve the tender mucous membrane from the repeated injuries it is receiving from the sharp fragments, and a second thorough sitting of litholapaxy, under ether, and lithotomy, are his legitimate alternatives. In such serious cases as have sometimes been recorded, where the superficial cystitis is complicated with interstitial inflammation of the walls of the bladder, the formation of abscess, peri-cystitis and para-cystitis, the surgeon must be guided by general principles and meet the indications as they arise. Occasionally, but very rarely, chronic cystitis with a tendency to phosphatic re-accumulation follows lithotrity, even when the stone first removed has 1 Lancet, March 16, 1878, p. 385.