388 INJURIES AND DISEASES OP THE BLADDER AND PROSTATE. grounds for suspecting tluit any change had taken place in the gland. Struc- turally it appears to consist in the wasting of the glandular element, little remaining behind but what is essentially fibrous. In two instances which I have seen, it occurred in men who, as far as was known, had never had any children, a circumstance which seems to indicate that the condition may be due either to defective development, or to changes occurring at a time of life when the opposite state—that of hypertrophy—is rarely met with. Hence it cannot be regarded as having a distinct relation to advancing age. I have in my collection a specimen ‘of unilateral atrophy of the prostate taken from the body of a man sixty years of age : it is associated with an absence of the ureter on the same side, and with a rudimentary condition of the corresponding seminal vesicle. Nothing further is known of the person from whose body this specimen was removed. The removal of the gland, either entirely or in part, by abscesses, prostatic calculi, tubercular deposits, and other conditions implying general waste, in which the prostate seems to share in a degree more than proportionate to its size, can hardly be regarded as illustrations of atrophy in the sense now being considered. Still, it must be remembered that it may be brought about in these ways. As far as treatment is concerned, there are no special indications to which reference should be made. Assuming that the cause of sterility on the part of a male is probably traceable to an arrested development of the prostate as detected by rectal examination, it need hardly be added that the imperfec- tion is one for which no treatment can be of any avail. Atrophy of the normal prostate has occasionally followed its incision, as in the operation of lithotomy ; whether this is due to the destruction of the ejaculatory ducts, as a consequence arising out of the methods employed for the removal of the stone, or to their becoming involved in the cicatrix, are points which cannot at present be regarded as determined. Reference has already been made to a case in which atrophy of the enlarged prostate fol- lowed its puncture by a trocar and canula, and the retention in the bladder of the latter for three months. These circumstances will be again referred to in connection with the subject of tapping the bladder. Though there is little to be said respecting the symptoms or treatment of this condition, its pathological importance is not to be undervalued, on account of the light which its study may possibly throw upon the causation, preven- tion, and management of the commoner and more important affection- hypertrophy. Tumors and Cancer of the Prostate. Like other portions of the genito-urinary apparatus, the prostate is liable to be the seat of tumors which may be classified as innocent or malignant. The former constitute the more frequent variety, and consist of a structure more or less identical with that of the normal gland. Ordinary hypertrophy of the prostate has already been considered, but it is further necessary to point out the existence of certain growths analogous to hypertrophy, which may be regarded as coming more strictly under the denomination of tumors, rather in regard to certain peculiarities in arrangement than to structure. Fibromas, prostatic tumors, or adenomas as they are variously called, have recently had prominence given to them from their removal having been effected either by accident or design during the performance of lithotomy. Under these circumstances, or in the post-mortem room, they have been met