328 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE BLADDER AND PROSTATE. sides with sutures, provided that other circumstances were favorable. When examined after the lapse of some hours from the infliction of the injury, these wounds present varying indications of the acute inflammatory mischief in which they so soon become involved. This was well illustrated by the case to which I have already referred. The symptoms of rupture of the bladder are, in addition to the local signs, those which usually indicate laceration of any other important internal organ. Cases however are occasionally met with in which urgent symptoms remain in abeyance for some time. Mr.-Holmes1 records one terminating fatally, where a man walked to St. George’s Hospital complaining of a blow received in the hypogastric region thirty-six hours previously, but exhibit- ing no distress of any kind ; post-mortem examination showed the existence of an extensive laceration of the bladder. Somewhat similar instances will be found elsewhere narrated.2 The following passage, from Gross,3 referring to seventy-eight cases analyzed by Dr. Stephen Smith, bears upon the point now under notice:— The primary symptoms are stated to have been severe in fifty-nine of the cases, and it is worthy of note that in forty-three of these the rupture extended into the peritoneal cavity. In nine cases, in seven of which the peritoneum was affected, the symptoms were slight, and in three they were entirely absent. In twenty-eight instances there was from the beginning inability to urinate; in three, on the contrary, the bladder retained its expulsive power. Bloody urine was drawn off in twenty-five cases and clear urine in four. In seven of the cases the patients were able to walk after the occurrence of the injury. Seven of the patients felt a sensation at the moment of the accident as of the bladder bursting. In nearly all there was an absence of evidence of external violence. The indications of ruptured bladder may be generally stated as pain over the region of the organ, inability to urinate, and more or less collapse followed by signs, local and general, of inflammation. Symptoms such as these, taken in conjunction with the history of the patient, would naturally lead to an examination of the bladder with the catheter. On the intro- duction of the instrument the bladder may be found absolutely empty, the viscus being felt so firmly contracted on the point of the catheter, as almost to suggest that, it had failed to reach it; or a few drachms of blood-stained urine may escape. In some instances the catheter has found its way through the wound, and has thus entered the cavity of the abdomen, from which urine more or less blood-stained has been removed. These injuries are exceedingly fatal; out of the seventy-eight cases ana- lyzed by Dr. Stephen Smith,4 in 1851, there were only five recoveries. The consideration of figures such as these indicates that in this particular direc- tion abdominal surgery, which during recent years has made such rapid strides, has yet much to accomplish. The treatment of ruptured bladder must have special reference to the two va- rieties of this lesion—(1) where the cavity of the peritoneum is opened, and (2) the extra-peritoneal form, where the rupture is in that part of the blad- der which is outside the line of reflection of its peritoneal investment. The difference is essentially this: in the former case, the urine and blood pass directly into the abdominal cavity, whilst in the latter they infiltrate the tis- sues around the bladder, and produce consequences in every respect similar to those observed in urinary infiltration of parts which are more superficial, and 1 Principles and Practice of Surgery, p. 223, note. 2 Med. Times and Gazette, Sept. 28, 1872. 3 Practical Treatise on the Diseases, Injuries, and Malformations of the Urinary Bladder, etc., p. 322. 4 New York Journal of Medicine, N. S., vol. vi.