916 SCROFULO-TUBERCULOUS AND OTHER STRUCTURAL DISEASES OF BONES. Fig. 1450. E V- T- C Caries. 0, bone attacked with rarefying osteitis; A, lacuna of Howship; 7, tuberculous nodule with vitreous condition of the centre ; V, vessels ; E, network of embryonic tissue ; G, adipose vesicles. (After Dubar.) MM. Kiener and Poulet have found tuberculous follicles in large numbers in the sequestra of caries, in the fungous masses within and in the walls of the cavities which contain them. Inoculation furnishes a complement to these proofs which is of consider- able significance; animals have been successfully rendered tuberculous by inoculating them with fungous material from caries, stuffed with follicles. (Volkmann, Lannelongue, Kiener.) The parasite has been met with in caries ; not always however. M. Cornil, who has examined fungous masses obtained from carious bone, has failed to find the bacillus in a certain number of cases.1 It is possible that the parasite may be a different one, and that, in looking for the bacillus, the special micro-organism of caries has not been seen. This point requires further investigation. But we may conclude even now, from what is admitted, that caries is a tuberculous affection of the bones grafted upon a chronic rarefying osteitis. (2) Spina Ventosa.—Nelaton considered spina ventosa as a disease of tuber- culous nature, and his view has been adopted by A. Berard, Vidal (de Cassis), and Virchow. Goetz2 denies its tuberculous origin, and declares, with Volk- mann, that the first occurrence is a slow inflammation of the medulla, a chronic medullitis, characterized by a fungous state of the medulla, and that there occurs secondarily a rarefying osteitis, and then a periostitis. Accord- ing to M. Parrot,3 the lesion is tuberculous. Its point of departure lies in gray nodules, which are identical with the tuberculous granulations of the lungs and other viscera. In all the cases studied by Parrot, organic tuberculosis was found: ulcers of the lungs and of the intestines. M. Lannelongue also admits the tuber- culous origin of spina ventosa; he has found the medullary tissue and the fungous masses infiltrated with tuberculous follicles, as well as the walls of the" ossifluent abscesses which proceed from them. M. Ileydenreich,4 who does not consider the presence of the tuberculous follicle as sufficient to cha- racterize tuberculosis, confesses, nevertheless, that the appearance of the lesion at its commencement, its ultimate course, and the results of histological examination, all appear to agree in justifying the opinion which sees in spina ventosa a tuberculous affection. 1 Dubar, op. cit. p. 99. 2 Etude sur le spina ventosa. (These.) Paris, 1877. 3 Gaz. Med. de Paris, 1880. 4 Dictionnaire Encyclopedique, etc. (Art. Patliologie des os, p. 341.)