362 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE BLADDER AND PROSTATE. 2 Op. cit., p. 93. 1 Lancet, March 27, 1880. nary villous growths, whence the term villous cancer has been wrongly applied to them. Cancer of the bladder is seldom seen involving the front or summit of the organ, but usually appears about the neck or trigone, or at the opening of the ureters, and as a rule proceeds with much rapidity. Com- mencing as a general infiltration of the coats of the bladder, it soon passes on to ulceration. Surrounding organs not unfrequently become infiltrated, and death ensues from perforation and urinary infiltration, or from exhaus- tion. The disease in its early stages is often obscure, sudden and consider- able discharges of blood being the only symptom. Then cystitis comes on, and, with other signs of ulceration, cells and even fragments of the tumor have sometimes been found in the urine. Microscopical examination of these has thrown light on the case, but this evidence is perhaps hardly trustworthy further than as showing that structural disintegration is going on. Exploration of the bladder with the sound, although it often aggravates the symptoms, generally adds some evidence as to the presence of the disease. Lymphatic glandular enlargement may be detected in thin subjects. Pain is generally referred to the loins, and there is more or less interference with micturition. The cancerous cachexia is often well marked. Where cancer involves the bladder by perforation from some other organ, such as the rectum, when it ulcerates from the bladder into the bowel, the patient’s condition becomes an extremely distressing one. Whilst urine enters the rectum, flatus and feces find admission into the bladder, and the most painful symptoms result. Treatment.—In the management of these malignant affections, there is, un- fortunately, little to be done but to palliate with opium or other sedatives, given in sufficient quantities to assuage pain. Chian turpentine has been recently advocated by Dr. Clay, of Birmingham,1 for the treatment of vesical cancer, accompanied with hemorrhage, but it does not appear that much benefit has been derived from its use. When by a cancerous ulceration the bladder and rectum have been made to communicate, the question of lumbar colotomy may be entertained. As a rule, much relief has followed by diverting the flow of feces, and by thus pre- venting the two excretions from falling into a common cloaca. In certain cases of cancer of the rectum, where, from the vesical tenesmus and cystitis, it is evident that the bladder is about to be involved in the cancerous extension, it is well to anticipate by colotomy the formation of a communication between these viscera. In this way much suffering may be saved, though the ultimate result is unchanged. From the study of observations and statistics relating to tumors of the bladder, Dr. Stein2 has formulated the following conclusions:— 1. In a few remarkable instances, in the case of women, apparent recovery seems to have resulted from a spontaneous expulsion of growths from the bladder. But in general it may be said that tumors of the bladder, if uninterfered with, are inevitably fatal; and, although they may exist for several years without creating much distress, a fatal termination almost invariably ensues in a few weeks or months from the outbreak of active symptoms. 2. Death results most frequently from hemorrhage, and from the effects of mechanical obstruction to the outflow of urine. Hence, the indication would be to remove the growth while the general condition of the patient was yet favorable for an operation ; before the subject had become exhausted from loss of blood, or the kidneys and bladder had become so much diseased as to make recovery impossible, even in the event of the successful extirpation of the growth. 3. In women, because of the accessibility of the bladder to direct exploration, there is no excuse for temporizing, and the surgeon should lose no time in acquiring an exact knowledge as to the existence, nature, etc., of the tumor, and, if practicable, should attempt its removal as early as possible.