INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. 586 the third, and removed them on the fourth day, but afterwards divided them at the time of the operation. He now recommends the following procedure : the veins to be divided are temporarily isolated by acupressure ; they are then cut through, and a portion of the skin removed. The cut surfaces are touched with the black-hot iron for about five seconds,'and the wound is then sewed up with carbolized catgut. Sir William Fergusson followed Mr. Lee’s first plan of operating, introducing several needles, and twisting soft, thick, silk threads, in the form of figures-of-eight, around them. Mr. Henry Smith still operates in the same way ; but to prevent undue ulceration of the skin by the pressure of the thick silk ligature, twists a narrow piece of lint over the pins before applying the figure-of-eight. Mr. Curling operates in much the same manner, by passing two pins between the veins and the vas deferens, about three-quarters of an inch apart. The veins are then divided subcutaneously with a tenotomy knife, between the pins, which are shortened with wire nippers. Instead of allowing the thick soft silk which is twisted round the pins to be directly in contact with the skin, he interposes a piece of card-board, over which the silk is twisted, and so obviates cutaneous ulceration. A pad is applied, and the patient is kept in bed ; on the sixth day the pins are removed. A hard lump, caused by the effusion of lymph, is felt for some time, but eventually becomes absorbed. The patient may leave his bed in ten days. The most common accident after the operation is an excess of inflammation, and the formation of a hydrocele. Suppura- tion sometimes takes place, and Mr. Lee has reported a case of hemorrhage. The profession is indebted to M. Ricord for introducing the method of operating on varicocele by the subcutaneous ligature:— Having isolated the veins from the vas deferens, which is behind, he passes a needle threaded with a double ligature between them, and withdraws the needle, leaving a loop projecting from the puncture, and a double thread which passes between the vas deferens and the veins ; the needle is then again entered, armed witli a double thread as before, at the point of exit of the loop, and, passing in front of the veins, between them and the skin, is brought out at the opening through which the ends emerge. The double ends are then passed through the loops, and drawn upon, while the loops sink into the tissues. Traction is kept up by means of a horse-shoe shaped serre-nceud. Mr. Tufnell uses wire instead of thread to constrict the veins, and, to obviate the difficulty of withdrawing the wire passed in the manner recommended by M. Ricord, fastens other wires to the loops, to act as retractors. Wire is less absorbent and less irritating than thread, but is less readily manipulated; it is also less easily removed when it has done its work, and it is liable to break. Vicki (de Cassis) devised the following operation, which is well spoken of by Mr. Erichsen:— The veins to be obliterated are separated from the vas deferens, and an iron pin with two holes, one at each extremity, is then passed between them; next, a silver wire is passed subcutaneously by means of a needle in front of the veins, passing through the holes made by the pin ; the ends of the wire are to be passed through the corres- ponding holes in the pin, by twisting which on its axis the wire is wound around the pin, and made to compress the veins between itself and the latter; the wire is to be tightened daily, until it has completely cut through the veins, which is accomplished in a week or ten days ; the cure is aided by the formation of plastic material which helps to obliterate the veins. Mr. Erichsen has dispensed with the pin, and contents himself with passing a wire subcutaneously around the veins ; the loop is tightened as much as is deemed neces- sary by twisting the wire, which cuts through the veins, and causes consolidation of the tissues by the irritation set up. An operation which requires to be repeated, as it were, daily, is faulty as a surgical proceeding, and is dreaded by the patient. The late Mr. Partridge used to pass a silk ligature around the veins subcutaneously, with an ordinary stout suture-needle ; the ends were then passed through two holes in