983 CHONDROMATA OF THE BONES. Schuh mentions the case of a girl, twelve years old, who had chondromata on all the bones of the skeleton except those of the cranium and vertebral column. They are circumscribed or diffuse; but the latter form is rare. There are, however, often found small isolated nodules in the neighborhood of the large tumors. Shape, Size, etc.—In shape, chondromata are usually spherical or oval. They are quite often composed of spherical lobules, which give them an irregular and bosselated appearance. They constitute, among neoplasms of the "bones, the tumors which are capable of acquiring the largest size, vary- ing from that of a nut to 2.15 metres (nearly seven feet) in circumference, as in the case of Sir Philip Crampton’s patient. Transformations.—Chondromata may be invaded by calcareous infiltration in the centres of the cartilaginous lobules. Fig. 0001 represents an enormous chondroma which .occupied a part of the anterior surface of the sternum and of the neighboring costal cartilages. The cartilaginous tissue had undergone numerous transformations. The patient was a man 45 years old, who came under my care in the Croix-Rousse hospital. The beginning of the tumor dated back to the age of 10 years. For several months past it had been developing rapidly ; the skin was red and inflamed, and there was distinct fluctuation over a large part of the neoplasm. The substance was hard and resisting, being of the consistence of bone in some points. There was acute pain. Upon incision there was an abundant escape of sero-purulent fluid, and I found that I had to deal with a cystic chondroma, with calcified masses, a large part of which was necrosed and was easily detached. The implantation of the tumor upon the neighbor- ing costal cartilages, and its deep connections, permitted only partial ablation, and as complete a scooping out as was possible without opening the mediastinum. The sequelae of the operation were most simple; but three months afterwards large, fungating, sarco- matous masses had taken the place of the excised tissues. True bone-formations have been met with in chondromata (ossifying chon- dromata). Sometimes the tumor is soft and fluctuating over a great part of its surface, and its contents are viscid, ropy, and of a colloid appearance. Cysts may be developed in chondromata, either under the influence of soften- ing, or as a consequence of rupture of the bloddvessels. Origin.—According to Cornil and Ranvier, chondromata arise from embry- onic tissue formed by a process analogous to that of osteitis. According to Virchow, they arise in cartilaginous islets detached from the cartilage of ossification and remaining in the centre of the bone. (Heydenreich.) Action on the neighboring Tissues.—The skin remains for a long time intact and does not give way until after extreme distention. The bones are thinned and eroded. Thefbrous tissues are thinned and perforated. The vessels are rarely affected, though some observations seem to show that the cartilagi- nous substance may penetrate them. The neighboring joints are intact and not anchylosed. Etiology of Chondromata.—Chondromata are most frequently seen in young persons. Some may even be congenital. Patients often refer them to trau- matisms ; this is a cause habitually mentioned, and one which should be taken into serious consideration, even if the traumatism acts only by produc- ing a locus minoris resistentice. Rachitis and heredity have also been charged with the production of chondromata. Symptoms.—The onset is generally slow and insidious. As to consistence, this varies according to the transformations undergone by the cartilage. When there are superficial cystic cavities it is not rare to find fluctuation. If the chondroma has started in the interior of the bone, it is surrounded by a shell of bone which becomes gradually thinned, and may give rise to the phenomenon of parchment-like crackling. A perichondroma, on the contrary,