631 SOLID TUMOIIS OF THE TESTIS. 2 Paget, op. cit., vol. ii. p. 118. 1 Trans. Path. Soc. Lond., vol. xxiii. p. 168. A tumor of the testis, which had been growing for eight years, was removed by Mr. Warrington Ha ward,1 from an old man, aged 81. The right testicle, which was 5 inches by 3^, felt hard, nodulated, elastic, and heavy ; some of the nodules, however, were less hard than others. There was some fluid in the tunica vaginalis. The cord was unaf- fected, and the skin was normal in appearance, and non-adherent. No secondary deposits were to be felt, and the patient’s general health was good. The tumor grew from the tunica albuginea, the secreting structure of the testicle, remaining normal; the growth creaked on section, and the cut surfaces became convex, and presented a grayish homogeneous basis with opaque white bands running through it. Under the microscope, wavy flbrous tissue was seen. The old man unfortunately died. It would be well in eases of this kind, when the patient is old, to divide the spermatic artery, operating antiseptically, in the hope that the tumor might waste. The specimen which has furnished the illustration of fibroid disease of the testicle (Flate XXXV., Fig. 5.), shows that, the normal structure has disappeared. In its place there is found young fibrous tissue, and in parts this approaches myxomatous tissue, which is probably the earlier stage of this growth. Fibro-plastic tumors, which are classified with the sarcomata, occur also in this gland, and are of grave significance. A tumor within the tunica albuginea had, in seven years, grown to a measurement of nearly six inches by four. When first removed, it was to the eye exactly like a fatty tumor, but it contained no fat, and was a typical specimen of fibro-cellular tumor in a very oedematous or anasarcous state.2 Calcareous matter, in some cases, is deposited in the epididymis, which is enlarged and hard ; the seat of the deposit is most probably in some inflam- matory effusion. It may also occupy the vas deferens and cause a blocking of the canal. The calcareous deposit may assume a laminated form, between the tunica vaginalis and the tunica albuginea, and is often seated in false membranes within the tunica vaginalis, in the same manner as in cases of pleurisy, but on a smaller scale. In the Hunterian Museum are several specimens which illustrate the deposition of calcareous matter in the testicle and in the epididymis. That numbered 2429 consists of two portions of bone-like substance of light and delicately filamentous texture, com- posed of granules of earthy matter imbedded in seminal tissue, which were inclosed within a tumor connected with a testicle. Dr. Crisp had in his collection a ram’s tes- ticle, which was enlarged and converted into a mass of granular calcareous matter. Cartilaginous deposits and fibro-eystic tumors may undergo calcareous change in their centres. The calcareous masses observed in the epididymis, rarely in the testicle itself, are often due to a cretaceous change in encysted tubercular deposits. When this calcareous change takes place, it causes a very hard swelling, and may give rise to an abscess, which is not likely to heal as long as the deposit remains to act as a foreign body. The earthy material gives on analysis (Barry), phosphate of lime, 45 ; car- bonate of lime, with traces of magnesia, 17 ; animal matter, 38=100. Carcinoma.—The scirrhous and encephaloid varieties of carcinoma are found in the testicle. The former is met with so rarely that its occurrence has been denied by Rindfleisch. The tumor attains a moderate size, and is chiefly characterized by its slow growth, stony hardness, and irregular, bossy surface ; it does not usually protrude as a fungus. As a rule, the growth is