CONDITIONS WHICH MAY COMPLICATE DISEASES OF THE URETHRA. 505 be added incisions of different situations and depths, intended to facilitate the escape of the infiltrated urine and of the shreds of sphacelated cellular tissue. Whatever may be the number of incisions which one is thus com- pelled to make, it is necessary to take care to space them sufficiently, and to arrange them in such a manner as to prevent as much as possible gangrene of the portions of skin which separate them. The application of emollient cataplasms, intended to modify inflammation and to facilitate the fall of the eschars by softening them, ought to follow this first surgical intervention, and, when the wounds are clean, ordinary antiseptic dressings ought to be brought into requisition to hasten their cicatrization. Having thus taken the steps necessary to arrest the course of the infiltra- tion, the surgeon should occupy himself with re-establishing the normal flow of urine. At the end of a few days he should attempt for this purpose to intro- duce a catheter into the bladder, which can usually be done without much difficulty; but if, in spite of all his efforts, he should not succeed in this, he should resolve to practise external urethrotomy, the re-establishment of the continuity of the canal constituting the only method which he has in his power to prevent the formation of a urinary fistula. Urinary Fistulas.—At present we have only to do with fistulse of the urethra in men. These present a great number of varieties. Some authors have divided them into congenital and acquired. I have already said that epispadia and hypospadia ought not to be considered as urethral fistuhe, but rather as more or less complex vices of conformation of the urethra. We have seen, in studying these latter, that there are nevertheless some rare examples of true congenital urethral fistulas, that is to say, fistulw which are developed during intra-uterine life, and which follow a mechanism entirely comparable to that of fistulse occurring after birth ; they need not be again referred to. Among lion-congenital urethral fistula, a classification may be founded on the place at which the fistula opens, either into the rectum (urethro-rectal fistula), or on the surface of the skin (urethro-cutaneous fistula). The latter should be divided into two great classes, comprising: urethro-perineo-scrotal fistula, and urethro-penile fistula. This division is warranted by the notable differences which, from the standpoint of etiology, separate the two classes of fistula, but especially from the standpoint of their pathological anatomy and their prognosis I will, therefore, describe successively : (1) urethro-rectal fist alee ; (2) urethro-perineo-scrotal fistulas ; (3) urethro-penile fistulas. (1) Urethro-rectal Eistulce. Etiology.—Much less frequent than other fistuhe of the urethra, urethro-rectal fistuhe may follow accidental operative wounds of the prostate, when, the limits of this gland having been passed by the cutting instrument, the latter opens at the same time both the urethra and the rectum. In lateral and pre-rectal lithotomy, an operative blunder may likewise be followed by the simultaneous opening of the urethra and the rectum. Foreign bodies introduced into the urethra (needles, pins, pipe-stems, pencils, ends of catheters) may perforate the urethro-rectal wall and become the starting point of a fistula. Conversely, vulnerating instru- ments or foreign bodies in the rectum, may produce the same result, acting from the rectum towards the urethra, Besides the different traumatic causes which have just been mentioned, there are a great number of pathologi- cal causes which may give rise to the production of urethro-rectal fistulse, acting either from the urethra towards the rectum, or from the rectum towards the urethra. Thus abscesses of the prostate, either simple or tuber- culous, perforating the recto-urethral septum, often become the source of persistent fistulse; calculi arrested in the prostatic region of the urethra, or