622 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. tion results from the strong septa, which partition off the gland into separate divisions. Billroth thinks that the irritating effusions are stored up here and there with the lymph in the lymphatics, which like the veins are convoluted, being often bent on themselves, forming loops, and that from them irritation spreads to the surrounding parts. It has not been proved that the nodules in the epididymis are composed of miliary tubercles. In tuberculosis the change is, according to Rindfleisch, altogether inter- stitial, the tubuli seminiferi remaining quite passive. Rindfleisch and Kundrat are of opinion that the tubercle-cells arise chiefly from proliferation of epithelium, especially the epithelium of bloodvessels and their sheaths, and also of the lymphatic vessels and serous membranes. Rindfleisch also believes that the tubercle-cells may he developed out of the muscular cells of arteries; Ziegler has demonstrated that tubercles may also be formed by the confluence of migratory cells. The new formation is starved for want of bloodvessels ; it dies in its centre, and only the cells at the periphery survive. Buhl, after most careful investigation, finds that acute miliary tuberculosis is combined, in most cases, with the nests of caseous or suppurative inflam- mation of longer standing. He enunciates the hold doctrine that it is an in- fectious disease arising always from absorption of substances out of these nests, and the carriage of very minute particles into all the organs of the body. Mr. Savory1 is of opinion that, in the majority of cases, the so-called tuber- culous disease of the testicle results from chronic orchitis, frequently of syphi- litic origin, and that what is taken for crude tubercle is really cacoplastic lymph and inspissated pus. Sir James Paget finds it difficult to say whether the yellow, dry, and cheesy material found in chronic enlargements and suppurations of lymphatic glands and of the testicles, should be regarded as tuberculous matter, or as withered and degenerate lymph or pus produced by inflammation. In testicular tuberculosis we should expect to find tuberculous matter in other parts of the genital apparatus, or in the lungs.2 It will he seen on looking at the drawing (Plate XXXIV., Fig. 1) which illustrates tuberculosis of the testis, and which has been faithfully copied from a microscopic specimen, that inflammatory action appears to have invaded the seminiferous tubule from a surrounding lymphatic space, and to have caused the seminal epithelium to become detached from the membrana propria and to coalesce in the lumen of the tube, where it undergoes a change and forms a gelatinous or colloid-looking mass containing a large number of nuclei, becoming the so-called giant cell. (Plate XXXIV., Fig. 2.) The whole of the following processes are well shown in succession in the single microscopic specimen that has furnished the illustration. (1) A normal seminal tube is seen. (2) One in which the epithelium is separated, and which, being seen in transverse section, appears as a ring. (3) This epithelium has become massed together in the lumen of the tube. (4) A giant cell is formed. In the Anatomical Museum of King’s College is the left testicle of a young gentle- man who consulted me in the spring for a small swelling of the vas deferens, about an inch above the epididymis, and about the size of a small hazel-nut. It was soft and painless, situated in the course of the vas deferens, which was thickened, and felt like a small cyst. The patient, who appeared in perfect health, asked no questions as to the blocking of the canal by the deposit, and, thinking that in this case, at all events, ignorance was blissful, I did not give him my views on the subject, A month or two afterwards he said that he was better, as the swelling was smaller ; he was no doubt correct, as I believe that the swelling, owing to the rupture of its sac, had become more diffused, and therefore softer and less evident to the touch, although in reality it was 1 Lancet, Jan. 1875. 8 Lectures on Surgical Pathology, vol. ii. p. 602.