CONDITIONS WHICH MAY COMPLICATE DISEASES OF THE URETHRA. 507 fluid took place wholly by the urethra, which can be explained by the fact that the urethral orifice was behind the opening of the ejaculatory ducts. These functional symptoms suffice to establish the diagnosis, which should be completed by a physical examination, for the purpose of determining exactly the situation of the orifices. Rectal touch will often suffice, in case of a large fistula, to lead to recognition of the rectal opening. If narrower, this is more difficult to recognize among the folds of mucous membrane, but it may often be suspected by the hard and irregular ridges which surround it. At any rate, it is always indispensable to expose it by means of an anal speculum, or better still, a Sims’s speculum, the blade of which is applied against the posterior wall of the rectum. The opening is then sought for with a curved probe, which passes through the fistulous track and enters the urethra. If the precaution have been taken to introduce previously a metallic sound into the bladder, the point of meeting of the probe with the sound will determine exactly the seat of the urethral orifice. The differential characteristics which distinguish vesico-rectal from urethro- rectal fistuke, have been elsewhere considered, and I will merely say here that, in certain cases in which doubt is possible from the similarity of the functional disturbances, the diagnosis may be definitively established by the results furnished by injections of colored liquids forced into the bladder and into the rectum. Prognosis.—Without speaking of the urethro-rectal fistuke which compli- cate cancerous degenerations of the rectum or prostate, and the cure of which is impossible, it may be said that the prognosis of urethro-rectal fistula is graver in proportion as the disorder is older and the fistula is larger. Account must be taken likewise, in the prognosis, of the cause which has given rise to the fistula. Thus whilst traumatic fistuke, those which follow acute and tolerably circumscribed abscesses, present a good prospect of recovery, fistulre which follow in the train of diifuse and extensive suppu- ration, either idiopathic or of a tuberculous nature, and which are accom- panied by prostatic sinuses, are almost always incurable. Finally, if there be some examples of spontaneous recovery of urethro-rectal fistuke, it must be acknowledged that most frequently they last indefinitely, and we shall soon see that the chances of cure by surgical interference are extremely few. The persistence of urethro-rectal fistuke may become the starting point of more or less serious conditions which may even lead to death. These con- ditions, resulting from irritation of the rectal mucous membrane on the one hand, and of the urinary mucous membrane on the other, are mani- fested by the habitual symptoms of recto-colitis and urethro-cystitis, and may reduce the patient to the last degree of marasmus. Nevertheless, these con- ditions are generally less frequent and less grave in urethro-rectal fistuke than in vesico-rectal fistuke, and from this point of view the prognosis of the former is less serious than that of the latter. Treatment.—To obtain the cure of a urethro-rectal fistula, thi’ee indications ought to be fulfilled: 1. To restore the permeability of the urethra, if there be occasion; 2. to protect the fistula from contact with urine, fecal matters, and intestinal gases ; 3. to act directly on the orifices and on the fistulous track, to provoke their obliteration. 1. If the urethra be the seat of a stricture, the permeability of the canal ought to be at once re-established by the means which are customarily em- ployed in such cases, and which it is useless to recapitulate here. 2. If the channel of the urethra be free, to fulfil the second indication a catheter should be retained, or the patient should be catheterized as often as may be necessary, in order to prevent the contact of urine with the fistula. It is less easy to prevent the passage of fecal matters and intestinal gases.