UTERINE TUMORS. 809 Symptoms.—The subjective symptoms of fibromata may often remain latent for years, until either the slowly growing tumor increases so as to compress other organs, if subserous, or to excite uterine hemorrhage if sub- mucous, or until increased sexual activity leads it to provoke menorrhagia and dysmenorrhoea, when interstitial. For this reason, as already mentioned, it is exceedingly difficult to fix the date of origin of these growths, and all statements of their frequency in married or single life must be taken as approximative only. When this degree of development has been reached, the resulting symptoms may be grouped as follows: (1) Hemorrhage: menorrhagia, metrorrhagia; (2) Dysmenorrhoea; (3) Dragging pain and discomfort in pelvis ; (4) Press- ure on contiguous organs ; (5) Sterility or abortion. Of these symptoms hemorrhage undoubtedly ranks first, both in frequency and importance. Usually this is an aggravation, more or less marked, of the menstrual flow, rather than an intercurrent bleeding; rarely, if ever, in the early stage, is it sudden like the unexpected hemorrhage of carcinoma. All forms of fibroma add to the tendency to menorrhagia; but large or multi- ple inter-mural growths are those most sure to produce it, while submu- cous tumors and polypi lead to irregular (or metrorrhagic) hemorrhagic flows, and subserous tumors are least active in this direction. When the latter are found without any antecedent history of hemorrhage, they have probably been pedunculated from the outset. Naturally such growths have very little uterine influence. When menorrhagia alone occurs, the source of the hemorrhage is the generally engorged endometrium ; in metrorrhagic flows, according to Hart and Barbour, “ ulceration of the mucous mem- brane covering the tumor, or rupture of the dilated veins in its capsule,” is the cause of the bleeding, which may be sudden, frequently recurrent, and alarmingly copious. Cases have been reported by Cruveilhier, Matthews Dun- can, and the late Dr. Peaslee, of New York, in which death rapidly followed these enormous losses of blood. The hemorrhage seldom comes from the mu- cous membrane covering the growth, when it is tense and atrophied, or from the tumor, which has but little vascularity. When the growth has assumed a polypoid condition, the irritation caused by its presence, and the frequent uterine contractions which it excites, lead to a constant leucorrhoeal discharge, which is tinged with blood and almost pathognomonic of this condition. Unlike the drainage from uterine cancer, it is neither watery nor fetid in odor. Dysmenorrhoea often accompanies fibroids of the submucous form, either before or after their polypoid development. This is due to the temporary engorgement of the tumor and its envelopes, which increases its tendency to pressure, and often induces uterine contractions. In cases of interstitial and subperitoneal growths, some writers have described a dragging gain distinct from this, and due (as Gusserow supposed) to the filling of the tumor with blood; but this is a rare exception to the general rule that intra-uterine fibroids cause dysmenorrhoea, while inter-mural and extra-uterine growths do not. Pressure on the neighboring organs may atfect either the bladder, rectnm, ovaries, or pelvic bloodvessels; and in the case of very large tumors, all of these at once, and the upper abdominal viscera in addition. Often the rectal or vesical tenesmus, or the varicose veins, thus caused, will first induce the patient to seek advice, and thus lead to the detection of the tumor. If incar- cerated in the pelvis, complete intestinal obstruction may occur and necessitate colotomy; and more than one fatal result has thus been recorded. Compres- sion of the kidneys and ureters, with fatal uraemic symptoms, has also been observed; but in such cases extensive adhesions have existed, and have limited the growth of the tumors in one direction.1 1 Hue, Annales de Gyn., t. iv., p. 239 ; Gusserow, in Billroth’s Handbuch.