INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. 652 useless for the purpose for which they were designed. The peculiar condition of the patient’s mind, in each individual case, must necessarily be carefully taken into consideration. It is fortunate when the cause of urethral or other irritation is due to some local change which is easily removable; among these causes we find congenital phimosis, stricture of the urethra, and occasionally varicocele. Infants with tight foreskins should be circumcised, as they are in a constant state of irritation, which causes erections ; an adherent foreskin, even if there be no phimosis, may imprison a quantity of secretion, and give rise to reflex irritation and difficulty in passing water—in fact, to the symptoms of stone in the bladder. Circumcision renders the glans less sensitive, and the cir- cumcised are less liable to masturbate and to suffer from balanitis or epi- thelioma. Varicocele in some instances is associated with spermatorrhoea. Ravoth, in a case under his care, effected a cure by means of a pressure appa- ratus.1 Strictures of the urethra are to be dealt with in the ordinary way. Dr. Pooley reports2 a case of spermatorrhoea which resisted all the usual methods of treatment, but. was cured by cystotomy, the incision being made at the apex of the prostate gland. A silver tube, with India-rubber tubing, was introduced through the wound. A patient who requested me to perform a similar operation on him, was relieved by the application of strong iodine paint to the perineum and hypogastrium. Care must be taken lest the patient prove to be a monomaniac. Impotence and Sterility.—Impotence and spermatorrhoea are so closely associated that most of what has been said on the latter subject is appli- cable to the former, the etiology, symptomatology, prognosis, and treatment being the same. Impotence is present when the power of sexual iutercourse is diminished or completely lost. If the failure be not due to congenital or acquired defect of the organs, it will be owing to erection lasting too short a time, or to its being altogether absent. In most cases, men who are im- potent are also sterile, although their testicular secretion may be fruitful, the exception being when in spite of a mis-emission the woman becomes im- pregnated. For a satisfactory erection the presence of one or both testicles in a normal state is essential. The carefully recorded cases of Sir Astley Cooper and Professor Humphry show that after castration the power to copulate is slowly lost. For the due performance of coitus are needed : (1) Sexual excitement or desire. (2) Erection, the reflex effect of desire. (3) Voluptuous ejaculation whilst the penis is erect (Schulz). This requires the normal action of certain muscles and a normal sensibility of the glans. The nervous excitement may be furnished by irritation of the nerve-trunks in their course, or at their periphery at the glans or the integument of the penis; or it may originate in the nerve-centres. From Eckhard’s valuable researches we learn that the nervi erigent.es are two in number, one on each side, and that in the dog they arise from the sacral, and are lost in the hypogastric plexus. He concludes that the fibres which convey the impulse required for erection arise in the cerebrum, and pass down through the crus and pons to the spinal cord ; because by electrical stimulation of the pons, and of the point at which the crus cerebri enters the brain, he produced distinct erection of the penis. Erections were caused also by stimulation of the upper cervical region, or of the lower section of the divided lumbar portion. Goltz assumes that an independent centre for erec- tion exists in the lumbar region of the cord, and that it may be acted upon inhibitively from the upper part of the medulla oblongata, and still more from the brain; because he found that when the influence of the brain and upper 1 Berlin, klin. Woclienselir., 1874- 75. 2 New York Medical Times, Sept. 1878.