923 SCROFULO-TUBERCULOUS AFFECTIONS OF BONES. ing sclerosis. Furthermore, these neuralgic forms of osteitis are found only in patients whose general condition is bad or suspicious. The symptoms of tuberculous infiltration resemble somewhat those of soft- ened and inflamed encysted tubercle. Here the phenomena of necrosis and sequestrum predominate. The course is more rapid, especially in acute infil- tration, and the symptoms of eliminative reaction are more accentuated in intensity and in extent. The probe generally falls upon a sequestrum, giving a clearly defined sound, but less dry, less shrill, because of the sur- rounding fungous masses, than that which it gives in striking against a se- questrum of phlegmonous periostitis. Multiplied and recurring abscesses, with fistulous tracks, are still more common in tuberculous infiltration than in encysted tubercle. Suppuration is brought on by the presence of one or more sequestra. The process being diffused and continuing to progress, while the parts which die first are being isolated by rarefying suppurative osteitis, other parts, if the general condition does not improve, are being invaded, die in their turn, and give rise to a new outbreak of eliminative osteitis. Inflammation unceasingly relighted furnishes unceasingly to the bacilli the conditions necessary for their indefinite generation. Hence the persistence of these centres of suppuration, lasting for years, sometimes for a lifetime. We see every day adult or adolescent patients come into our wards, with sup- purating osteitis dating back four, five, and ten years, and cases have been reported of still longer duration. I have operated upon a young man who had had for fourteen years a suppurating centre of fungous, juxta-epiphyseal osteitis. In cases in which caries follows fungous synovitis, its symptoms are mingled with those of white swelling. The articular extremities are swollen by cedema and by proliferation of the soft parts; movement of the joints gives the characteristic crepitus which results from rubbing together denuded bone- surfaces. The fistulse lead down to rugous and friable surfaces, or to a layer of fungosities which must be passed through before the bone is reached. The tearing of the fungosities always causes a slight bleeding in these explora- tions. The probe often meets with detached particles, or more or less volumi- nous sequestra, in the midst of these fungosities. These sequestra have the peculiarity, that they are light and porous, because caries, as I have said, succeeds an arthritis or a fungous synovitis which, by rest, by inaction, or by vascular or nutritive disturbances, has caused fatty rarefaction of the epiphyses or even of the entire bone. The sequestra of caries have their peripheral alveoli filled with fungosities which connect them with the fungosities of the cavity in which they are con- tained, and they preserve by this means a certain degree of vitality, to which they owe the power of becoming again medullized, of diminishing in size, and even of disappearing. The probe also reveals diminution of resistance in carious bone-tissue which is not yet dead nor formed into a sequestrum. By pushing it in with moderate force there is obtained a parchment-like crackling, which results from the breaking of the thinned osseous trabeculae. (Billroth and other authors.) The formation of abscesses and fistulous tracks presents nothing to be par- ticularly noted in tuberculosis of the bones. Sclerosis and periosteal hyper- ostosis may often be observed around a patch of caries which is on the road to recovery, but to a less degree than in simple tuberculous infiltration with an acute or subacute course. The swelling of the limb seen in caries, at the level of the diseased part, is due rather to inflammatory oedema than to bone- proliferation caused by irritation of the periosteum at a distance. A certain part of the apparent swelling must be attributed to wasting of the limb above and below, by atrophy of the muscles which are condemned to inaction.