459 VITAL AND ORGANIC LESIONS OF THE URETHRA. even on the cadaver, to determine with precision the point at which the alteration begins and that at which it ends. Orifice and Track.—The anterior orifice—the only one which is of interest to the surgeon—is sometimes situated in the axis of the canal, sometimes placed at the side, and nearer to one wall than to the other. Sometimes it is large and funnel-shaped; in other cases it is very narrow, and partly con- cealed by a fibrous ridge or a fold of the mucous membrane, which sometimes makes the introduction of a bougie impossible. When the orifice is central, the tract which lies behind it is ordinarily rectilinear, with smooth and regular walls. But when it presents a distorted cicatrix, this tract is sinuous,, zigzag,'and covered with fibrous ridges, which circumscribe little anfractu- osities, several millimetres deep, and large enough to admit the beak of a small sound. (See Fig. 1330.) We shall soon see that inflammatory and cicatricial strictures of the urethra are the point of departure for accidents and complications which are often very serious. Surgeons are familiar with the lesions of the kidneys and bladder which are occasioned by every ob- struction to the tree exit of urine, and which have been considered in other portions of the work.1 The complications which may supervene on the part of the urethra, such as urinary sinuses or pouches, urinary abscesses, fist aloe, and infiltration of urine, will be described hereafter. Symptomatology and Diagnosis.—Strictures of the urethra present three orders of symptoms, which are ascertained from the history of the patient, from the functional disorders of the urinary apparatus, and finally by direct examination of the urethra. (1) When a patient who complains of some disturbance of urination admits, as part of his history, the occurrence of one or several attacks of gonorrhoea, a contusion or a wound of the perineum, a syphilitic ulceration of the meatus, or a hemorrhage caused by the passage of a calculus, the introduction of a foreign body, or a troublesome catheterization, one may almost surely diag- nosticate a stricture of the urethra, the existence of which will usually be confirmed by direct examination. (2) The functional disturbances proper to stricture of the urethra are very variable according to the degree and age of the stricture. For a longer or shorter period a stricture may remain latent, with nothing to make the patient suspect its existence; but after a while he notices that his urine escapes with a sort of hesitation, that it is projected only a short distance from the meatus, that the stream has become smaller, and that the length of time occupied in urinating is greater than formerly. This is not all. When the patient has finished urinating, he has a sensation of fulness in the perineum, resulting from the presence in the canal of a certain quantity of urine, which eventually escapes and soils his clothing. In some cases there occurs a sero-purulent discharge from the meatus, which the patient attributes to a return ot his old urethritis, and for which he often comes to ask the advice of a surgeon. So one should always be suspicious of these slight and painless discharges, which are symptomatic of a stricture, and which are due, as I have said, to a superficial exfoliation at the strictured point. The disorder, left to itself, becomes daily more pronounced, and when once it has reached its extreme degree it presents itself with the following characteristics : the patients have an incessant desire to urinate, which it is impossible to satisfy, and it is only at the cost of most energetic efforts that they succeed in expelling their urine drop by drop. They often attempt to overcome the obstruction caused by the stricture by resorting to different artifices- Some pull upon the penis, others plunge it into hot or cold water. 1 See p. 343, and Vol. V. p. 1088, supra.