APPENDIX. 1186 sive, accurate, and splendid work on anatomy and physiology than the world up to that time had ever seen. It is a sumptuous folio of nearly seven hun- dred pages, profusely and beautifully illustrated with very excellent figures drawn from reality. It was not only then, but it is now, though three and a half centuries have passed away since it appeared, a glorious book ; a monu- ment of genius, industry, and liberality. This work was followed by the ana- tomical and surgical treatises' of Columbus, Fallopius, Fabricius ab Acqua- pendente, and others, all of which increased the accuracy of surgical science and the artistic skill of surgeons. Surgery owes much to the genius and practical experience of that sterling old hero and grand master in chirurgerie, Ambroise Par6. He was born at Laval, in the province of Mayenne, in France, about the year of Grace 1509. He lived one and eighty years, and died in Paris, December 20, 1590. Flis parents were poor, his early education defective, his ambition and aim lofty, and his will and courage indomitable. A kindly priest undertook the culture of young Pare’s mind, while in return he undertook the culture of the priest’s garden, and the grooming of liis mule. In time Pare was duly apprenticed to a barber-surgeon, whose name was Vialot, from whom he acquired the rudiments of minor surgery. The great lithotomist Germain Colot chanced to come in the neighborhood where Pare was a student, and asked the young surgeon to hold the legs of a patient on whom he proposed to operate for stone in the bladder. Pare was charmed with the skill and dexterity of Colot, and resolved to betake himself to Paris the better to perfect himself in the art of surgery. He served three full years as house surgeon in the Hotel- Dieu, a hospital which was then and still continues to be famous among similar institutions. At the age of twenty-seven he was appointed a military surgeon, in which capacity he served his country with much distinction, at a time when wars were rife, for no less than a third of a century. He was not only a member of the fraternity of Barber-surgeons, but in time became exalted to a position of official eminence in this important guild. “ The kings of France transmitted him to their successors as a legacy of the crown.” Henry II., Francis II., Charles IX., and Henry III., each chose Pare as his physician and surgeon-in-chief, and also as member of the privy counsel. Pare was an earnest, simple, and frank Huguenot. But for his remarkable skill, and the value of his services to the crown and the state, he too would have fallen a victim to the atrocious fanaticism which culminated in the horrible massacre of St. Bartholomew’s Day. His personal history has the charm of a romance, and his works are almost as fascinating as a fairy tale. The reader should do himself the pleasure of making the acquaintance of both author and book. Pare introduced many novelties and improvements into practical surgery. The application of the ligature to cut or wounded bloodvessels was revived, if indeed it had ever been previously practised in Europe. He believed this method of arresting trauma- tic hemorrhage to be new, and to have come to him by inspiration. He says “ I think it was taught me by the special favor of the sacred Deitie; for I learnt it not of my masters, nor of any other, neither have I at any time found it used by any.” It is possible that some of this inspiration came from the ancients, since he adds, “ Only I have read it in Galen, that there was no speedier remedy for staunching of blood than to bind the vessels through which it flowed towards their roots, to wit, the liver and the heart.” Celsus, Avicenna, Albucasis, and other ancient and mediaeval sur- gical writers, had spoken of the ligation of bloodvessels; yet for ages previous to the time of Pare the actual cautery had been the principal means of staunch- ing blood in wounds and surgical operations. Certain it is that the ligature was not in use in his day, and that its employment by Pare brought upon