IRRITABLE BLADDER. 367 gouty or rheumatic affection, and are mistaken for a condition, already men- tioned, well known in French literature under the title of contracture du col vesical. As the treatment of the latter affection includes the rendering of the patient’s urine more or less alkaline, the local symptoms are thereby improved when a fissure exists, a circumstance which is pointed to as confirmatory of the diagnosis. The improvement, however, only continues as long as the alkaline reaction of the urine is maintained. Yesical fissure, though palliated, is seldom cured by such means. The principles of treatment for this affection are much the same as those recognized when fissure is met with elsewhere. A cure is sometimes effected by keeping the urine neutral or slightly alkaline, combined with the occa- sional application of a weak solution of nitrate of silver (one grain to the ounce) to the prostatic urethra. In other cases permanent benefit is only obtained by establishing a temporary condition of incontinence: this, in the male, may be best accomplished by cystotomy, and in the female, by rapid dilatation of the urethra. I have performed a lateral cystotomy for fissure, where the suffering of the patient far exceeded anything observed when a stone is present in the bladder, and with complete success. Irritable Bladder. This term has been used as expressing a disease rather than a symptom, and hence some confusion has arisen in the application of therapeutics to the conditions on which it depends. By “ irritable bladder,” it is meant that micturition is performed unnaturally often, without regard to the number of times that a healthy person should urinate in the twenty-four hours. There are variations dependent upon circumstances, and to some extent on individual peculiarities, which would render any attempt to indicate the fre- quency with which urine should be voided, in order to constitute irritable bladder, almost ridiculous; and therefore, unless a person be in some way inconvenienced thereby, he cannot be regarded as the subject of this condition. Causes.—Irritability of the bladder is generally traceable to one or other of the following conditions, some of which may coexist: nervous influence, habit, reflected action, structural diseases—including tumors and calculous disorders—and an abnormal state of the urine. Unless careful inquiry be made as to the cause of the irritability, treatment must necessarily be em- pirical. There can be no doubt that a considerable number of persons trace the irritability of their bladder to purely nervous causes. It often happens that individuals, in anticipation of a railway journey, for instance, or other occa- sion by which their ordinary habits may be interfered with, for days previously empty their bladders on every possible opportunity. In this way a habit is established, which may eventually become very distressing. Nearly allied to this is the condition so graphically described by Sir James Paget,1 as “stammering with the urinary organs.” Nervousness, and a bad habit combined, are quite sufficient to produce very intractable forms of urinary irritability. In these cases there are, as a rule, no objective symptoms; the history of the irritability, the circumstances influencing it, and the employment of a process of exclusion, are the points upon which reliance should be placed in forming a diagnosis. In their management, we should not forget that a 1 Clinical Lectures and Essays.