281 LITHOTOMY. upon the loins, hot drinks, stimulants, quinine, jaborandi, digitalis, and diuretics, are employed in the treatment. 5. Fragment left behind.—Such a complication may manifest itself during convalescence by a return of the old pain, straining, blood in the urine, etc. A search should be made before the wound has closed, and if anything is found the wound should be dilated, a small forceps introduced, and the frag- ment extracted. 6. Phosphatic Incrustation of Wound.—This occurs in the case of feeble subjects, especially in those who have had phosphatic stone with ammoniacal urine and considerable cystitis. A tough, fibrinous exudation forms upon the wound and adheres to it; sometimes indeed it is a thin slough of all the superficial tissues. This layer is infiltrated with triple-phosphate crystals, and its surface is roughened by their deposit. These fibrinous layers, diphthe- ritic in appearance, line the cut and may extend into and even invade the bladder, being shed from time to time in pieces of varying size. The natu- ral healing of the wound is greatly retarded by this complication, which, ac- cording to my experience, is an evidence rather of weakness and lack of vitality on the part of the patient, than of the condition of his bladder, or of the urine which it contained at the time of the operation. Undoubtedly, a bruising of the neck of the bladder or of the track of the wound during the rough extraction of a large stone, would conduce to the formation of slough, and this slough would be covered with phosphates; but the deposit may occur independently of bruising violence. One of the most obstinate eases of this kind that I have ever seen was in the person of a seemingly healthy young man, with acid urine and a healthy bladder. He was cut cleanly in the perineum (cystotomy), as a possible means of relief from an intense neu- ralgia of the vesical neck. 7. True diphtheria, attended with all the general phenomena of the disease, may complicate the perineal wound, but the complication is exceptionally uncommon. 8. Epididymitis and Orchitis.—The testicle may become inflamed after litho- tomy, shortly after the operation, or as late as the second week. This compli- cation is most common upon the side which has been operated upon (left), and presents no features of moment. It is due to injury of the seminal duct, or to subsequent inflammation near the orifice of the latter. Usually only the epididymis is involved, and resolution follows in due course. Sometimes true orchitis sets in, and this may terminate in suppuration. 9. Sloughing of the Rectum.—An eschar may form, due to the bruising violence of extracting the stone, or to the lack of vitality of the tissues, and this may involve the rectal wall, and, separating after a few days, disclose the fact of rectal perforation by the escape of intestinal gas through the wound. The subsequent fistula is treated as already directed incases of similar fistula caused primarily by the surgeon’s knife. 10. Cellulitis and Urinary Infiltration.—As to whether pelvic cellulitis after perineal lithotomy is an eflect or cause of urinary infiltration, has been a matter of grave dispute among authorities. Some, like Scarpa and Brodie, fearing infiltration, advise a very limited vesico-prostatie incision, and Reli- quet is inclined to do the same. On the other hand, the most successful opera- tors—Martineau, Cheselden, Thompson—have used a free incision, preferring the clean cut to any possible bruising of the tissues while extracting the stone. My belief is that too small an incision is much more dangerous in the case of a large stone than a free cut which will allow extraction without much bruising of the soft parts. In the child, the cellular tissue about the neck of the bladder is very loose, and the whole substance of the prostate is habitually cut through as well as a portion of the body of the bladder; yet