URINARY CALCULUS. 160 sometimes a hollow space representing a former clot of mucus or of Rood. This latter phenomenon has been recorded by many observers. The well- known case of the Archbishop of Paris, referred to by Coulson and others, in which Frere Come predicted before operating that the stone inclosed a clot of blood, illustrates probably one stage of calculus with a hollow nucleus. The archbishop had formerly been a victim to hsematuria, and Frere Gome’s guess was verified by the result. A remarkable instance of calculus containing a cavity was presented to the London Pathological Society by Mr. Shaw. The stone, composed of uric acid, was as large as a small walnut, but seemed very light. On section it was found to be a shell varying in thickness from a sixth to half an inch, inclosing a large cavity, which latter ^contained a stone as large as a pea. Doubtless the small stone had become surrounded with a clot of muco-pus upon which uric:acid crystals had precipitated, and after the shell had formed the soft centre had shrunk away.1 Mr. George Lawson2 reports a calculus re- moved by lithotomy from a man of forty-eight. It was 2| x 2 x 1J inches in its various diameters. It weighed four ounces less sixty grains. Its surface was smooth, yellowish-white, and inodorous after being washed. Its composition was phosphatic. On making a section, a drachm of reddish-brown, stinking, ammoniacal fluid escaped. The true nucleus turned out to be a mulberry cal- culus, ragged in outline, seven-eighths of an inch in its two chief diameters. This nucleus lay in a free space which had been filled with the reddish-brown fluid. Mr. Lawson’s explanation is the obvious one; that the rough mul- berry calculus when free in the bladder had at last excited catarrh, that its interstices had become filled and surrounded by muco-pus mixed with ammo- niacal urine, that this smooth surface had then become encrusted by concen- tric phosphatic laminae, and that the inclosed contents had still further retro- graded into the brownish putrid liquid. Carter found oxalate of lime to be a more common ingredient in stone formation in India than in England.3 This he ascribes to the vegetable character of the food. The nuclei he found to be composed of uric acid and urates in 50.30 per cent, at Grant College, Bombay, while in England from his sources of information he makes the percentage of stones having uric acid or urates as nuclei as high as 74.46.4 Oxalate of lime, on the other hand, formed the nucleus in 38.65 per cent, at Grant College, while the English sources yield only 16.87 per cent. Carter, from his Indian researches, concludes5 that globular urates very often accumulate to form the nucleus of stone; that oxalate of lime in sub- morphous form is very common ; but that crystals of uric acid “ compara- tively seldom compose the nucleus of a calculus.” Dumb-bell crystals of oxalate of lime are conspicuous for their frequency among the spicular, granular, and globular urates when the latter occur as the nucleus of stone. As to structure, Carter’s microscopic researches confirm the conclusions of Ord. The albuminous substance is the skeleton in which the solid material forms. Dissolving out the latter leaves the former quite perfect, in some cases, showing the fibrillated radial structure of the basis-substance. In this substance crystals and granules are deposited, the former assuming a peculiar crystalline arrangement (sub-morphous), while the latter undergo remodelling. This arrangement of the basis-substance in a fibrillated, radial manner is very similar, as Ord has pointed out, to the structure existing in the crab’s shell as described by Mr. Rainey, and serves, according to Ord, to prove the sound- 1 Trans. Path. Soc. Lond., vol. vi. p. 251. 2 Lancet, March 31, 1883, p. 545. 3 Calculous Diseases in Bombay and some other parts of India. St. George’s Hosp. Reports, 1871-2, p. 85. 4 The original paper makes these figures 71.79. 5 Microscopic Structure, etc., of Urinary Calculi, p. 29. 1873.