TUMORS AND CANCER OF THE PROSTATE. 389 with either (1) as isolated tumors imbedded in the gland and readily separa- ble from it, or (2) as growths continuous with the gland, of which condition the pedunculated and enlarged third lobe is an illustration. In the symptoms to which these growths give rise there is nothing to distinguish them from ordinary prostatic hypertrophy, nor can their treatment be regarded as different. When met with in the course of the operation of lithotomy, they have been variously dealt with. In a communication on this subject,1 I have narrated two cases of the kind in which isolated tumors were successfully removed by enucleation with the fingers. In neither of these cases did the proceeding entail any serious consequences, the patients being relieved not only of their calculi but also of their prostatic tumors, which were sufficiently large to occasion inconvenience. Similar cases have been recorded by the late Sir William Ferguson,2 Mr. Cadge,3 and others. When the tumor is under these circumstances found to be continuous with the prostate gland, as, for instance, when the third lobe is enlarged and pendulous, it may be removed by avulsion with the finger; occasionally it has been brought away accident- ally between the blades of the lithotomy forceps, without any ill consequences resulting. I have suggested, in the communication already referred to, that when, in the course of a lithotomy or a cystotomy, any portion of the pros- tate is found to be pendulous, its removal by means of some simple form of ecra.seur should be undertaken, rather than that it should be left to grow and possibly obstruct micturition. Malignant Tumors.—These are rare, either as primary growths, or as sec- ondary deposits or extensions of tumors primarily affecting other organs, such as the bladder or penis. Of the various forms of carcinoma affecting the prostate, the encephaloid variety is generally admitted to be the most common. Cancer of the pros- tate has usually been observed either in early life or after forty years of age. On the authority of Dr. Picard,4 it is stated that, with the exception of the eye, cancer, in children, attacks the prostate more frequently than any other organ. The precise origin of the disease is always obscure, as death does not take place until all traces of normal structure are lost. Commencing in the mucous membrane, or in the substance of the gland itself, the tumor takes the form of a circumscribed mass, which in its growth may fill, or even distend, the bladder. Nor is it confined to the limits of the capsule, for the vesiculse sem- inales, the recfum, and the ureters, may all become involved. Secondary deposits are found in the neighboring glands, a point which is of considera- ble importance in enabling the surgeon to arrive at a diagnosis. The con- sistence of the growth, and its appearance, vary much, being determined by its duration and liability to hemorrhage or disintegration. In a case which I have recorded,5 in which the disease was believed to have originated in the pros- tate, the bladder was completely filled with a brain-like substance, which gave prominence both to the perineal and supra-pubic regions. Before the patient’s death, large sloughy masses of the growth, mixed with bloodclots, escaped freely through a perineal opening which circumstances had rendered necessary. In this case, enough encephaloid matter was expelled from the wound to fill a pint vessel. In the only case of this kind which has come under my obser- vation for some years at the Liverpool Royal Infirmary, the Pathologist, Mr. Paul, reports that secondary deposits were found both in the glands and in 1 Loc. cit. 2 Lancet, vol. i. 1870. 3 Trans. Path. Soc. Lond., vol. xiii. * Traite des Maladies de la Prostate. Paris. 5 Op. cit., p. 351.