LITHOTRITY. 223 Bigelow uses two instruments of the same pattern, one corresponding in size to about Ho. 25 of the French scale, the other to about Ho. 30, at the junction of the shaft with the jaws. (Figs. 1211, 1212.) He says that the spur in the heel, together with the narrowness of the male blade, effectively Jaws of Bigelow’s lithotrite. prevent clogging. The forward curve at the toe of the female blade was devised by Bigelow to facilitate the introduction of a large instrument with long jaws through a large prostate. Bigelow believes that quicker and more powerful work can be accom- plished by the wrist motion of rotation than by the fingers upon a wheel. Therefore he makes the handle of his lithotrite of solid hard-rubber, and pear-shaped. (Fig. 1213.) Handle of Bigelow’s lithotrite. The method of throwing on the screw power in Bigelow’s instrument is also an innovation. It is effected by a collar upon the end of the cylindrical handle, and is thrown into action by rotation conformably to the general wrist motion used in manipulating the screw. This instrument is larger and heavier than other models. It is very effective for rapid work, and the male blade is so small, and its asperities are so arranged, that it is with difficulty that a fold of the bladder can be pinched. It requires a little training to work the handle readily. The instruments which I use are all fenestrated, so that the male blade may be made to pass just beyond the female blade, if necessary. Such an instru- ment cannot, by any possibility, clog with any substance out of which stone is formed. For litholapaxy there is no object in carrying fragmentation to trituration—small fragments will pass the tube as well as dust, and are less likely to flow back with the return current. For old-fashioned lithotrity a narrow fenestra is all that is required, that the fragments may be made very small; but as long sittings are not allowable with this operation, the non- fenestrated lithotrite is suitable when it is practised.