361 TUMORS OF THE BLADDER. It should, be mentioned also that Civiale succeeded in removing a small tumor from the male bladder by grasping it with a lithotrite, and that Sonnenburg has removed a libro-sarcoma from the female bladder by resect- ing its anterior wall. The patient died some weeks after the operation. Liston removed a cyst of false membrane, or, more probably, a cast of ex- foliated mucous membrane, from the bladder by the supra-pubic incision, and successful perineal operations, not included in Dr. Stein’s list, have been recorded by Duplay, Pitts, and Anderson.] Malignant Growths of the Bladder.—Among malignant and cancerous tumors affecting the bladder, we must include some which involve it by con- tiguity. The kinds of carcinoma affecting the bladder are, scirrhous, encepha- loid, and epithelial. Authors appear to differ considerably in their estimates of the relative frequency of these. Scirrhus, as far as my own observation goes, when it affects the bladder does so only secondarily, that is to say, as an extension from some other organ, such as the uterus or vagina in the female, or the rectum or prostate in the male. Gross1 observes that— Tlie usual variety of carcinoma, met with in the bladder, as shown by modern histological research, is the epithelial. What was formerly known as scirrhus, is nothing more than the firm, infiltrating form of epithelioma, characterized by a dense stroma of fibrous tissue, pervaded by small and infrequent alveoli, which contain heaps of loose epithelial cells and epidermic pearls. The soft, juicy, medullary, or fungoid form of the affection, generally denominated encephaloid, is of the same nature, but its stroma is more delicate and more vascular, and the loculi larger, while the cells are the seat of granular and fatty metamorphosis and disintegration. In many specimens the latter assume a cylindrical shape, when the mass presents the minute appearances afforded by cylindrical epithelioma of the gastro-intestinal mucous track. Other varieties of carcinoma are almost unknown. Though malignant growths of the bladder usually proceed very rapidly, epitheliomata of slow progress are met with. Sir Henry Thompson records the following instance:—2 A preparation which I exhibited at the Pathological Society w'as from the body of a patient who certainly had been the subject of it for eight or ten years. In his case the symptoms resembled those of stone, only that the slightest degree of movement produced bleeding in the later stages. Injections of nitrate of silver, from half a grain to a grain to the ounce, controlled this tendency remarkably, and enabled him to walk a mile or two without hemorrhage. After death the same deposit was found in one kidney. Sarcoma is one of tlie rarest diseases of the bladder. Heath3 records the case of a woman, aged 39, whose bladder was found largely occupied by a villous growth situated on a hardened base which proved to be a round- celled sarcoma. Like carcinoma, sarcoma of the bladder may be primary or secondary ; it may be round-celled or spindle-celled, and may assume, in the course of its growth, an appearance not unlike that of a papilloma. Com- menting on the asserted infrequency of these tumors, Dr. Stein4 remarks, “seeing the resemblance between round-celled sarcoma and encephaloid cancer in regard both to their clinical and physical characters, and in the absence of microscopical data, we are with Gross in the belief, that probably many tumors formerly described as encephaloid cancer, belonged to the variety of soft sarcomata.” When undergoing ulceration, malignant tumors of the bladder, by throwing out excrescences, sometimes assume an appearance not unlike that of ordi- 1 Op. cit., p. 143. 2 Holmes’s System of Surgery, vol. iv. p. 900, 3 Medical Times and Gazette, vol. ii. 1879. 4 Study of Tumors of the Bladder, p. 35. New York, 1881.