141 POLYPUS OP THE RECTUM. grown-up persons. I am of opinion, however, that the soft polypus is not always the one found in young children, and consider the true fibrous variety rare even in the adult. In fact, this rough division is very far from express- ing the pathological truth, for the true fibrous polypus is in its anatomy an almost perfect counterpart of the fibroid tumor of the uterus, that is, a myoma. The few which I have myself seen have been nearly as large as wal- nuts ; they creak when cut, and the incised surface is of a pale color. The peduncle is about an inch and a half long, and is always attached above the sphincters ; the tumors do not usually appear outside of the anus; they do not bleed, but when they protrude they cause pain, irritation, and spasm, and often set up ulceration of the bowel. The discharge from them is of a very ichorous and ill-smelling character. The polypi usually found in the adult are smaller than the mucous polypi of children ; they are multiple. I have often found two growing from opposite sides of the rectum; there may also be two stems with only one head. The pedicle may be an inch or a little more in length, and is not uncom- monly hollow ; the polypi are neither very hard nor soft, and are easily com- pressible; they are sometimes cystic; a large vessel runs up the stem, and in some cases can he felt to pulsate. In women rectal polypi are almost always soft, with remarkably long and rather slender stems. The polypi of children are small, vascular tumors, with peduncles often two inches long. They resemble small, half-ripe mulberries more than any- thing else. They bleed very freely at times, and occasion in the young great debility. They are said to be hypertrophies either of the glands of Lieber- kiihn, or of the mucous follicles of the rectum. They may he dangerous when high up, by occasioning intussusception of the bowel, with total obstruction and death. When the peduncle is more than an inch in length they usually protrude at stool, and require to he returned after the bowels are relieved. The general symptoms in children are: frequent desire to go to stool, accompanied by tenesmus ; occasional bleeding, with discharge of mucus; and the protrusion from or appearance at the anus of a fleshy mass when the bowels are acting. In the adult, the history of polypus is curious. Without any previous discomfort of any kind, the patient suddenly finds a substance protruding from the anus after going to the closet. This is characteristic of the malady. Until the peduncle becomes long enough to allow the polypus to be extruded and grasped by the sphincter, no inconvenience is felt, and therefore the patient speaks of a sudden onset; this is quite different from the history of hemorrhoids. In examining a patient, an injection should he administered before intro- ducing the finger; even if the polypus slips away, the surgeon will always be able to feel the pedicle at its point of attachment. The only treatment to be recommended is the removal of the growth. This is best done by seizing the peduncle close to its base with the German catch-forceps, and gently twisting the polypus around until it comes away. There is no danger of hemorrhage, no pain, and scarcely any necessity for resting more than one day. If a ligature is used, the patient should rest until it separates, as otherwise abscesses may follow. The rarer kinds of polypi are the dermoid, the cystic, the sarcomatous, and the disseminated ; the latter are adenoid as a rule, and the mucous membrane of the rectum and of the colon may be closely studded with them. Another very rare tumor of the rectum is the villous. This consists of a lobulated, spongy mass, with long villus-like processes studding its surface ; it resembles exactly, though its villi are much larger, the growth of the same name found in the bladder. Usually it has a stem, broad rather than round, which I think is an