INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. 582 around.1 Adhesions after ulceration are met with in children, but not after balanitis in the adult. Inflammation of the penis (penitis) is said to follow on typhoid fever. The organ is painful, red, and much swollen, and there is constitutional disturb- ance. The complaint terminates by resolution or by the formation of ab- scesses, or even by the sloughing of the organ ; at times pytemia may ensue. Antiphlogistic remedies are to be employed at the onset, and incisions and other means as the occasion arises. Abscess of the penis may occur from injury, but is more often associated with gonorrhoea. A small, hard lump will form, generally at the fossa navicularis or at the bulb of the urethra; there are smarting and pain on making water. As soon as it is evident that pus has formed, or is about to form, the swelling is to be punctured, and then fomented and poulticed, in order to minimize the chance of the formation of a urinary fistula. If opened early, a free exit is given to the pus and urine, burrowing of matter and extension of the abscess are prevented, and, as a rule, the opening will contract and heal. In some cases the loss of tissue, owing to the size of the abscess, is of consequence, and the opening into the urethra is free and followed by an obstinate fistula; this should be treated by touching it with a red-hot wire, and by preventing the passage of urine through it by the constant use of the catheter. In one case, after the use of a strong injection, a lacunal abscess formed in the spongy part of the urethra, just in front of the scrotum, and opened externally. It healed in due course, but the loss of spongy tissue was attended by a slight bend in the penis when erect. Cases of urethral abscess are attended by an indurated condition of the body of the penis, probably from the irritation set up by a slight extravasation of urine into its tissues. This is not a common complication, but I have met with such a condition, in an aggravated form, after immediate dilatation of the urethra for a tight stricture; the man informed me that his penis was depressed when turgid, instead of being erect, and that copulation was thus interfered with. An abscess with extensive sloughing of the skin and urethra may follow extravasation of urine, and the same result may follow the retention of a silver catheter, used to dilate a tight stricture. A severe case of sloughing of the urethra and skin of the penis was sent to King’s College Hospital from the country, to be under my care. The history given was that a silver catheter had been passed through a tight stricture at the bulb of the urethra, and had been tied in the bladder. In a day or two sloughing took place, and destroyed the urethra and skin, leaving a large opening which extended along the perineum from just in front ot the anus, through the scrotum, to an inch and a half in front of it, the opening being about three inches and a half in extent. The patient was undei treatment for many months, and was repeatedly subjected to plastic operations ; I have since heard that he is quite well. The mode of remedying these cases is treated of elsewhere.2 This case teaches us that caution is very necessary when an instiument is retained in the urethra.3 Abscesses in the penis, especially in the neighborhood of the bulb, are gen- erally due to gonorrhoea, but may follow a debilitating attack of fever, or an injury ; the abscess must be opened early in the usual way. Gangrene of the Penis.—This affection fortunately is not a common one; the constitutional causes which give rise to it are the exanthematous fevers— 1 See Volume II. page 589, supra. 2 See pp. 512, 515, supra. 3 Soft gum-elastic or India-rubber instruments, frequently changed, cause much less irritation than silver catheters.