661 FUNCTIONAL DISORDERS OF THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. Mr. Callaway’s patient, a man aged 44, bad connection with his wife when he was intoxicated, and injured his penis. The priapism remaining unchanged for sixteen days, Mr. Callaway opened the left crus penis, and evacuated a large quantity of dark grumous blood and small coagula. The patient was well in a few days. Mr. Tripe’s patient, a sailor aged 26, after frequent connection had priapism, which lasted for four months. In Mr. Luke’s case, the blood became absorbed and the organ restored. A patient under Dr. Handheld Jones’s care suffered for one month, when the corpus cavernosum on one side was incised. A laborer, aged 44, had injured his penis during coitus, and, when admitted into Guy’s Hospital, had suffered from persistent priapism for ten days. For a w'eek he had felt passionate venereal desires, which had then left him. The corpora cavernosa were chiefly affected, for the glans penis and corpus spongiosum were not turgid. The man suffered such severe and constant pain that Mr. Birkett incised the corpora cavernosa in two places on both sides, and evacuated some dark, thick blood. Warmth and moisture were applied. Mr. Birkett recommends treatment without incision in similar cases. Erection of the penis is caused by irritation of the spinal cord or its nerves, and. occurs most frequently at night, but sometimes by day, in cases of myelitis or congestion of the spinal meninges. It is observed, hut less fre- quently, in cases of meningitis, of tumor pressing upon the spinal cord, of hem- orrhage into the spinal canal (outside of the cord), and sometimes even of reflex paraplegia, but then only on the introduction of a catheter, or in consequence of some peripheric irritation. This symptom does not exist in cases of non- inflammatory softening, or of hemorrhage, or of tumor in the gray matter of the spinal cord. Hunter says that priapism often threatens mortification in man, and he saw one instance of the kind in a dog; the erection never subsided, and the glans penis could not be covered by the prepuce from the swelling of the bulb ; the penis mortified and dropped off. As opium is of very great service in priapism, there is reason to suppose that the complaint is, in some cases, of a spasmodic nature.1 Kremme believes that effusion of blood into the corpora cavernosa is caused by the impeded return of the blood in persons suffering from leukaemia, and corresponds to the bleeding from the nose and rectum which sometimes •occurs in that affection. Longuet regards the physico-chemical condition of the blood in leukeemic patients as the cause of the priapism, and considers that the circulation of the blood is hindered in the smaller vessels, whilst thrombi are formed owing to the great increase in the number of white blood-corpus- cles. Neidhart and Matthias conclude that the origin of the affection may be sought in the disturbance of the nerve-centres. Dr. Salzer, of Worms, narrates a case of priapism in a man aged 46, who awoke with his penis in a state of violent erection which even the administration of chloro- form did not allay. He considers this condition to be one of the symptoms, but a rare one, of leukaemia. The spleen was enlarged from attacks of ague. Dr. Salzer, because this man had been previously healthy to all appearance, and had never suffered from hemorrhages, supposes the attack to have been due not to extravasation, but to stimulation of the nervi erigentes from anatomical changes in the nerves themselves, or from pressure upon them by enlarged lumbar glands. Treatment.—Local remedies—such as sedative fomentations, and in some instances ice, cautiously applied—may be tried. The affection appears to run its course, and not to be much influenced by remedies; it seems, therefore, as a rule, undesirable to make incisions into the part, as the injury to the 1 Berliner klin. Wochensch., No. 11, 1879 ; Practitioner, vol. i. p. 296. 1880.