INJURIES AND DISEASES OF TIIE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. 542 for this purpose being the acid nitrate of mercury, fuming nitric acid, and glacial acetic acid ; the strongest and most painful is chromic acid. It is de- sirable when practicable, before removing the warts, to apply to them for some time the strong liquor plumbi, which will cause them to turn white, shrivel up, and become brittle, when they can be more easily and thoroughly removed ; the parts after removal of the warts must be kept dry, and nitrate of silver should be applied if they show a tendency to return. Hemorrhage during the performance of the operation may be controlled, and the removal of the growths rendered easier and more certain, by tying a piece of ordinary elastic tubing around the base of the penis. When the warts are removed, the surface of the glans will appear unindurated and healthy, and its cut surface will speedily granulate and heal These vegetations are not venereal, and may be in some instances got rid of by observing extreme cleanliness, and by painting them with corrosive sublimate dissolved in collodion, in the propor- tion of a drachm to an ounce, or by dusting them with calomel. The growth in some cases is so extensive that the foreskin cannot be drawn back, and under these circumstances it is necessary to slit it up and remove the warts without delay. The growth is a papilloma due to an excessive development of the papillae. The condylomata due to a gonorrhoeal discharge are broad or pointed. Warts on the penis, as elsewhere, occasionally enlarge and become covered with hard, dry, epidermic material, forming horns. Excision is the proper treatment. Carcinoma attacks the genital organs, usually assuming the form of epithe- lioma ; the other kinds are rarely met with. Epithelioma may invade the prepuce, or the whole penis, or any part of it. The most common age for its occurrence is fifty years or over. In the great majority of cases there has existed a congenital or acquired phimosis prior to the advent of the disease. A contusion or a urinary fistula may be the exciting cause. With a phimosis, the parts are not kept clean, but the gland is macerated and rendered tender and excoriated by retained secretions, and the irritation causes an epithelioma to grow, in those predisposed to the disease, as is found to be the case when the tongue is irritated by a broken tooth, or the scrotum by the presence of soot in its folds. Syphilis has no direct influence in inducing the disease, but a syphilitic chap or ulcer may be the starting-point of an epithelioma. Two kinds of epithelioma affect the penis, the indurated variety and the vegetating or cauliflower-like growth. The growth of an epithelioma of the penis resembles its growth elsewhere. A tubercle forms, becomes indurated, slowly increases in size, and eventually becomes painful. The growth may spread superficially, or may remain comparatively stationary on the surface but extend into the deep tissues. The nature of the disease, in either the prepuce or the glans, is masked by a phimosis. Thiersch has applied the term superficial or fiat epithelial cancer to those eases which affect the surface of the skin, and infiltrating epithelial cancer to those which rapidly penetrate into the deeper parts. The surface of the nodule may remain hard, or its centre may ulcerate, giving rise to a deeply excavated ulcer with indurated edges. Instead of commencing as a nodule, the carcinoma may start as an indurated papilloma or wart, assuming a fun- gating appearance and invading the tissues at its base. The discharge is offensive and ichorous. The growth does not extend along the skin of the penis, but surrounds for a time, and eventually invades, the corpora cavernosa or the corpus spongiosum. When the ulcerating form of the disease attacks the prepuce, it destroys the mucous membrane, and presents an excavated and uneven surface, with indurated, sharp-cut edges. A man was admitted into King’s College Hospital for retention of urine due to an indurated condition of the penis. The anterior fourth of the organ was enlarged and