ORTHOPAEDIC SURGERY. 1028 oped, and that therefore the reduction of the deformity at the ankle-joint in the case of varus is not as readily accomplished as it is in acquired equinus, where the joint surfaces are but little affected. Relapsed Varus.—It not unfrequently happens, especially amongst the class of patients who are treated at hospitals, that congenital varus which has been relieved during infancy, again becomes developed at a later period of life. The necessity for counteracting the tendency to relapse which is present until the normal condition of the muscles of the leg and foot is fully restored, has already been alluded to ; it is however not always possible to impress the parents of a child, in whom the deformity has been relieved, with the fact that the cure is not yet completed, and the after-treatment of the case is thus often neglected. To such cases only can the term relapsed varus be correctly applied, but under this title are usually included all con- ditions of deformity which have been treated in infancy and still exist at a later age, so that cases which have never been completely relieved are im- properly described as relapsed cases. Failure in the treatment of varus during infancy may depend upon mismanagement of the operative treatment, or upon want of attention to the instrumental treatment; in the former case, it may be due to tenotomy not having been had recourse to when required to relieve the contraction of the several muscles, or from section of the tendons having been imperfectly performed. Failure arising from defective management of the instrumental treatment of the case results from the use of improper appliances, which are not adapted to maintain the foot in posi- tion during the process of restoration. In the treatment of these cases of persistent deformity, the measures employed must be selected according to the particular nature of the case and the age of the patient. The condition of true relapse, if again submitted to treatment at an early age, is readily over- come by mechanical and physiological measures alone; but if some years have been allowed to intervene, tenotomy will probably again be required. Cases which have been only partially relieved from neglect to divide the tendons of the contracted muscles, are always amenable to treatment, which is con- ducted in a manner precisely similar to that given for the treatment of advanced varus. The most unfavorable condition which the surgeon has to encounter is that resulting from badly conducted operative treatment in the first attempt to relieve the deformity, because in such cases the tendons have usually been hacked about, and instead of uniting cleanly have become adherent to the surrounding tissues. These cases require much care in their treatment; it is not often that recourse to tenotomy is of any avail, but benefit may be gained by section of the plantar fascia, if the foot is much shortened. The adhesions which connect the tendons of the contracted mus- cles to the surrounding tissues may be stretched by long-continued instru- mental treatment combined with manipulative exercises, and in these cases the latter method is a most valuable agent in reducing the deformity; by steadily pursuing this plan, I have restored many cases in which the leg and foot were almost covered with scars, from frequent attempts made to overcome the distortion by dividing the tendons. Non-con genital Varus.-—The development of talipes varus as a non-congen- ital affection may originate either from paralysis or from spasmodic contrac- tion of the muscles of the leg and foot, the former being by far the most common form of the malady. Paralytic varus, in its general character, presents the same condition of displacement as is found in the congenital variety, but there is a marked difference in the appearance of the two forms: in the congenital, the foot is rigidly jointed to the leg and exhibits no indication of weakness ; in the non-congemtal, it is as it were crumpled up, and looks as though it had been