647 FUNCTIONAL DISORDERS OF THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. urethral glands (uretlirorrhoea ex libidine). The fluid passed at stool after a costive motion, is an alkaline, albuminous secretion, free from spermatozoa, sticky, and inodorous; it conies from the prostate, and contains epithelium, a few crystals, mucous and occasionally pus corpuscles, and especially rounded amyloid bodies, which are considered by Pitha, Gross, and others, to be de- rived from the prostatic follicles, and to be pathognomonic of prostatic secre- tion. The presence of Bottcher’s crystals is ascertained by mixing a drop of the secretion with a drop of a one-per-cent, solution of phosphorated ammo- nium upon an object glass. Numerous large beautiful crystals are shortly formed. The majority of patients who complain of spermatorrhoea are suf- fering from this prostatic discharge, and an examination by the finger intro- duced into the rectum, often reveals a tender and enlarged prostate. Prognosis.—Account must be taken of the family history of the patient; whether he come of a stock subject to nervous disorders, or even epilepsy or insanity; also of his general constitutional condition. A favorable result may be looked for when the patient is young, when the complaint is of recent date and unaccompanied by structural changes or general debility, when the neces- sary treatment can be carried out in all its details, when emissions associated with erections take place at night and awaken the patient, and when remova- ble local causes—such as gleet, phimosis, varicocele, or diseases of neighboring parts—are present. On the contrary, when the patient is on the verge of forty, the complaint of several years’ duration, the emissions frequent, induced by slight exciting causes, and associated with nervous symptoms and structural changes in the genito-urinary organs, the cure is at all times difficult. Men who indulge their animal passions in every conceivable way, instead of sub- mitting to rigorous treatment, cannot hope for an amelioration, much less a cure of the complaint. In some instances the unfortunate habit of masturba- tion seems to be ineradicable; even married men with families, anxious to relinquish it, are unable to do so. D'eatment.—We have seen that spermatorrhoea is commonly due to mas- turbation and sexual excess. These habits must, therefore, be entirely aban- doned. Infants suffer from frequent erections, caused by any irritation of the genitals, or the presence of a stone in the bladder. Children of all ages may be noticed handling their private parts when any irritation is present; they must be carefully watched, and bad habits instantly corrected. The supervision of children should not be suspended when they have left the nur- sery, but should be continued when they are at school, and any sign of mas- turbation should be at once investigated. Medical men, in the present day, are taking a more reasonable and scientific view of this question than formerly, and, instead of avoiding all mention of the practice, point out its evil conse- quences, and prescribe for its alleviation, removing by operation, if necessary, any mechanical cause of irritation. Masturbation, doubtless, is practised at some schools, and should be carefully watched for and repressed. Obscene literature and pictures, which stimulate the mind to indulge in impure thoughts, and cause sexual excitement even in the continent, are to be care- fully avoided. An early and suitable marriage is the best preventive of the complaint we are now considering, but is not to be thought of unless the man be competent to discharge the duties of the marriage state, as ineffectual intercourse may entail on the wife various uterine and nervous disorders. Failure of nutrition, due to neurasthenia, is in these cases a prominent symptom. We must, therefore, rely greatly on the internal administration of tonics, which act both on the nervous system and on the general health. Quinine is one of the most valuable remedies which we possess, and is to be given in tonic doses combined with hydrobromic acid. In cases of malarial poisoning, the dose is to be increased to the requisite extent. It may be com-