387 ATROPHY OF THE PROSTATE. (4) To be tolerably regular in the quantity of fluids daily consumed. As we grow older, our urinary organs become less capable of adapting themselves to extreme variations in excretion. Therefore it is desirable to keep to that average daily consumption of fluids which experience shows to be sufficient and necessary. How often has some festive occasion, when the average quantity of fluid daily consumed has been greatly exceeded, led to the over- distension of a bladder long hovering between competency and incompetency. The retention thus caused, by suspending the power of the bladder, has been the first direct step in establishing a permanent, if not a fatal, condition of atony or paralysis of the organ. (5) It is important that from time to time the reaction of the urine should be noted. When it becomes permanently alkaline, or is offensive to the smell, both necessity and comfort indicate the regular use of the catheter. If practicable, the patient should be instructed in the use of this instrument (6) Some regularity in the times of passing water should be inculcated. We recognize the importance of periodicity in securing a regular and healthy action of the bowels, and though the conditions are not precisely analogous, yet a corresponding advantage will be derived from carrying out the same principle with regard to micturition. The sum of these instructions is, that, as we cannot arrest the degenerative changes by which the prostate becomes an obstacle to micturition, it is of the first importance that every means should be taken to compensate for this by promoting the muscularity of the bladder, and by thus preventing its being atrophied or paralyzed either by accident or improper usage. Lastly, as to the power of medicines in controlling enlargement of the prostate, there is but little to be said. Ergot and ergotine, administered by the mouth or subcutaneously, have been vaunted as possessing the power, not only of preventing further enlargement of the gland, but of actually dimin- ishing its size. Dr. Atlee1 found considerable advantage from the use of ergot in these cases, and his experience has been to some extent corroborated by that of other practitioners. My observation is favorable to the use of the drug in cases of difficult micturition in connection with large prostate, but 1 believe that the gain comes from the stimulating effect of the ergot upon the mus- cular coat of the bladder, rather than from any diminution which it causes in the size of the obstructing gland. In a communication2 relating to the enucleation of tumors of the prostate in connection with lithotomy, I drew the following conclusions: (1) That lateral cystotomy may be practised in certain cases of enlarged prostate which are attended with symptoms pro- ducing great distress, with the view of exploring and, if possible, of removing the growth. (2) That m all cases of cystotomy for calculus, where the pros- tate is found to be enlarged, a careful search should be made with the finger with the view of effecting the removal of the growth, should this be found practicable. (3) That in determining the selection of lithotomy or lithotrity in a case of stone in the bladder complicated with enlargement of the pros- tate, regard should be had to the possibility of removing both of these causes of annoyance by the same operation. Atrophy of the Prostate. Atrophy of the prostate is a condition occasionally observed. It has been met with in middle-aged men under circumstances in which there were no 1 New Orleans Medical and Surgical Journal, August, 1878. 2 Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. lxv. p. 43.