INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE RECTUM. 122 In regard to treatment, I have never seen any benefit result from the appli- cation of caustics to growths within the bowel, but when a cancerous mass protrudes, which, however, is a somewhat rare occurrence, I have relieved pain and got rid of a good deal of the growth by using the arsenite of copper with mucilage as a paste; it does not cause bleeding, and, as far as my experience goes, is free from danger. The treatment in the majority of cases of cancer resolves itself into an attempt to assuage the sufferings of the patient. Pain is mitigated by the recumbent position, and by sedatives, which should be used externally and internally, opium in its several forms being the most effective agent which we possess. It may be used as a suppository, in which case the best formula is morphia with glycerine and gelatine (three of glycerine to one of gelatine), as this melts very soon, and does not feel like a foreign body in the sensitive bowel. Injections of Battley’s sedative, nepenthe, or black drop, in starch, afford great relief. Probably most patients obtain the greatest comfort from hypodermic injections of morphia, but no opiate can be used long without inducing a state of mind almost as unendurable as the pain of the disease; therefore great care should he taken to husband the remedy as much as pos- sible, never using a larger dose than is absolutely necessary, and bearing in mind that it may be necessary to rely upon it, more or less, even for months. I have tried the Chian turpentine, recommended by Mr. John Clay, of Bir- mingham, but have not been satisfied with its results, and have discontinued its use. When cancerous growths approach the anus, considerable relief may be obtained by dividing the sphincter muscles; defecation is thus rendered easier, and no possible compression can be exercised. When diminution of the calibre of the bowel is induced by cancer near the anus, Professor Verneuil has proposed free division of the gut in the dorsal median line; this operation I have frequently practised, thereby affording great temporary relief to my patients. In encephaloid of the rectum, much relief from pain and some advantage may be obtained by tearing out the growth by the fingers or the scoop. This must be done boldly, and the whole growth enucleated quickly and resolutely. If only the superficial portions are torn away, hemorrhage may occur to a considerable extent, which must exhaust the patient, and no real benefit will accrue. In the cases in which I have adopted this plan of treatment, I have been surprised to observe that, after the removal of the cancerous growths, the facial appearance of the patients has improved immensely ; in fact, they have all lost the malignant aspect, and not until the growths have gradually returned, and with it the poisoning of the blood and tissues, has the countenance reassumed its worn, haggard look. So, also, in respect of health, strength, freedom from pain, appetite, and capacity for sleep, this change for the better has been remarkable. Two operations have been practised for the relief of rectal cancer: The one is extirpation of all the diseased portions of the rectum ; the other is colotomy, lumbar or inguinal, which only professes to relieve pain, and possibly to extend the term of the patient’s life. Extirpation of the rectum may be undertaken in any form of cancer which does not necessitate the removal of more than four and three-quarters or five inches of the rectum in the male, and about one inch less in the female. If found closely adherent to the base of the bladder and prostate gland, or to the neck of the uterus in women, the operation is probably not admissible, and certainly not desirable. Again, if any enlarged glands exist in the inguinal or lumbar regions, the operation cannot be recommended. Lastly, I should say that the patient ought not to be so exhausted as to render it doubtful whether the rather severe shock, consequent on the operation, may not greatly endanger life.