679 LACERATIONS OF THE CERVIX UTERI; TRACHELOPLASTY. the vaginal vault, atrophy being apparently in such cases nature’s method of remedying the effects of the injuries. In the great majority of cases nature is quite competent to repair all physio- logical injuries received by the cervix in parturition, if the opportunity be given her. But this opportunity may fail; there may be neglect or ignor- ance in the management of the puerperal state ; especially may there be want of proper and prolonged rest during the earlier weeks, and consequent imper- fection of the process of repair. Again, all labors are not physiological. There may be, on account of increased size of the foetal head, disproportion between this and the circle of the os uteri through which it must pass ; labor may be too rapid, or the tissues of the cervix may fail in ready dilatability ; by the application of forceps before the os is fully dilated, or by the indis- creet, not to say criminal, administration of ergot, the foetal head may be dragged or driven through the os, bruising as well as tearing the tissues sur- rounding it; and like injury may be inflicted in podalic version where prompt delivery is necessary in the interest of mother or child. Nor is the puerperal state in all cases physiological. The necessary traumatisms of labor present avenues for the entrance of septic poison, and the consequent lymphangeitis, or phlebitis, requires a diversion of the forces of nature, it may be, from the repair of local injuries to the saving of life. Laying aside, however, questions of the etiology of these normal lesions, as well as any explanation of nature’s failure in certain cases to heal them, these unrepaired injuries are not innocent, but in many cases bring a train of more or less serious disorders, such as chronic parenchymatous metritis—too often regarded as sub-involution—parametritis and perimetritis, obstinate leucor- rhoea, menstrual disorder—especially in the form of increased flow—ectropion of the mucous membrane of the cervical canal, hypertrophic elongation of the cervix, posterior displacements or prolapsus of the uterus, and reflex neu- roses. It was reserved for Emmet to show how art can accomplish in such cases that which nature has failed to do, and his operation of tracheloplasty constitutes one of the most valuable of his many original and important con- tributions to practical gynaecology. Dr. Emmet says that in the autumn of 1862 he accidentally discovered the importance of laceration of the cervix, and he at once instituted a surgical procedure for its relief; his method remains to-day essentially the same as that originally employed. In 1869, the operation was first described by him in a paper read before the New York County Medical Society, and published in the American Journal of Obstetrics. Since that time, in addition to other papers by Dr. Emmet, periodical medical literature, especially in this country, has contained numerous contributions upon the subject. The general accept- ance of this procedure by the profession is probably only a question of time, but it is important that the operation shall be restricted to cases which actually require it. There can be no question that some surgeons,1 in their blind enthusiasm, have forgotten the necessary and essential traumatisms of labor by which the nulliparous is changed into the parous os, and have with most unnecessary assiduity sought to obliterate these changes by tracheloplasty, when neither local nor general symptoms have required any operation. Con- 1 A lady wlio had been condemned to tracheloplasty, assured that she would never lie well until the operation should be done, was carefully examined by the late Dr. Albert H. Smith and by myself ; neither of us could discover the slightest indication, or even excuse, for an operation. She was quite well in three weeks, and has remained so for two years. In another instance the mother of six or seven children consulted an enthusiastic operator, who assured her that the condition of her cervix was the cause of her supposed acquired sterility ; she was at that moment six weeks pregnant, and was afterward delivered at full term. Many similar instances mi°ht be quoted.