INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. 640 structure remain colored with the hsematoxyliu. From his experiments and examinations, Dr. Gibbes concludes:— (1) That the head of the spermatozoon is inclosed in a sheath, which is a continua- tion of the membrane which surrounds the filament and connects it to the body, acting in fact the part of a mesentery. (2) That the substance of the head is quite distinct in its chemical composition from the elliptical structure, the filament, and the long body, and that it is readily acted upon by alkalies (a solution of chloride of sodium, from ^ to 5 per cent.). These reagents have no effect on the other part, excepting the membranous sheath. (3) That this elliptical structure has its analogue in the mammalian spermatozoon ;, in the one case the head is drawn out as a long-pointed process, in the other it is of a globular form, and surrounds tlie elliptical structure. (4) That the motive power lies, in a great measure, in the filament and the mem- brane attaching it to the body. Fig. 1378. Human spermatozoa. The filament is very fine, and is connected to the tail by a membrane which is much wider and longer than in the amphibia, and more folded in consequence. In one specimen, with no accompany- ing history, a number of heads were found with no corresponding tails. "When the spermatozoon is in motion, the head always advances through the spermatic fluid, and with sufficient force to turn on one side or push before it large epithelium-cells and urinary crystals if present. It is calcu- lated that a spermatozoon in a suitable fluid can traverse in a second a dis- tance ecpial to its own length, and it moves, according to Henle, at the rate of one inch in seven minutes and a half. The late Dr. Marion Sims estimated that spermatozoa travelled from the entrance of the vagina to the neck of the uterus in three hours. Ilausmann has found live spermatozoa in the neck of the uterus a week after coitus, the alkaline secretions of the female genital organs being very favorable to the preservation of their vitality. Normally, the uterine secretion is alkaline, but if the mucus becomes acid the sperma- tozoa are killed, and the woman does not conceive—a condition which is sometimes removed by a visit to localities famous for their alkaline baths. A weak solution of mercury is very fatal to spermatozoa, but organic poisons do not affect them. Spermatozoa live in the fluid of encysted hydrocele. M. Byasson preserved sperma- tozoa for 12 days, at a temperature of 36° C., in a fluid composed of phosphate of sodium, 59 grammes; the white of one egg; and water, 1000 grammes.1 M. Roussin 1 Boucliardat, Annuaire de Therapeutique 1881.