DIAGNOSIS OF INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTION. 57 Differential Diagnosis in Acute Obstruction.—The most important point to be determined here is whether the obstruction is due to enteritis, or whether there is positive mechanical occlusion. In the former case a cure may prob- ably be effected by the judicious employment of general and local remedies ; in the latter case the only hope of recovery will often lie in prompt operative interference. In enteritis there will be pain, mainly of a colicky character, with marked tenderness over the affected portion of bowel. There will probably be dorsal decubitus, and, if general peritonitis be setting in, the limbs will be drawn up as in that affection. There may be vomiting, but it is not a very marked symptom, and the ejecta will seldom be stercoraceous. There will be consti- pation, but enemata will usually bring away small quantities of fecal matter, showing that there is not absolute occlusion. There may be an obscure ful- ness and hardness over the affected portion of intestine, but there will be no well-defined tumor, as in intussusception, and the results of rectal exploration will be negative. The patient will not be collapsed, as in internal strangula- tion, but, on the contrary, there will be some elevation of temperature, with other signs of fever. There will often be a history of exposure to cold, or of imprudence in diet, or of the administration of drastic purgatives. If the case appear to be one of mechanical occlusion, the surgeon must endeavor to decide whether the obstruction be due to intussusception ; to strangulation by a band, diverticulum, adhesions, or internal hernia; to acute volvulus; or to the lodgment of a gall-stone, enterolite, or foreign body. Intussusception is by far the most frequent form of mechanical obstruction met with in children and young persons. It occurs suddenly, usually with severe and increasing pain, which afterwards somewhat diminishes. The pain is either paroxysmal, or, if continuous, presents distinct exacerbations. When the characteristic tumor is found, it is usually tender on pressure. Vomiting occurs, but is only exceptionally stercoraceous. Diarrhoea is rather more common than constipation; and in the large majority of cases there is a discharge of blood from the rectum. There is usually marked tenesmus, a symptom which Mr. Pollock considers pathognomonic. In about half of the cases a well-defined “ sausage-shaped” tumor is observed, commonly on the left side of the abdomen, and it may often be felt by digital exploration of the rectum, or may even protrude through the anus. The patient is often collapsed, and the temperature is normal or subnormal unless general perito- nitis occurs, and is even then not materially elevated. Internal strangulation by bands, etc., is most common in young adults, and slightly more frequent in the male than in the female sex. It begins sud- denly, with severe and continuous pain of a colicky character, often referred to the umbilicus. There is no tenderness, unless subsequent to the develop- ment of peritonitis. Vomiting is an early and most distressing symptom, and commonly becomes stercoraceous about the fifth day. There is complete constipation from the beginning. An enema may bring away the contents of the large intestine, but no fecal matter passes the seat of occlusion. Col- lapse is more marked in this than in any other form of intestinal obstruction. There is great thirst, depending probably on the excessive vomiting, and the flow of urine is often notably diminished. There is, in the majority of cases, a history of one or more previous attacks of peritonitis. Volvulus is almost exclusively an affection of middle age and advanced life, and occurs in men about four times as often as in women. It occurs sud- denly, with severe pain, at first intermittent but afterwards continuous, often referred to the umbilical region, and afterward to the sigmoid flexure, where the twisting usually occurs. There is commonly tenderness over the distended bowel. Vomiting is a comparatively unimportant symptom, and, when it