53 SYMPTOMS OF INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTION. with the peristaltic motion, or which causes a shrinking of the mesentery and secondary stenosis. Chronic Peritonitis.—Just as acute peritonitis gives rise to acute intes- tinal obstruction, which may sometimes be indistinguishable from that pro- duced by mechanical causes, so may chronic peritonitis give rise to chronic obstruction. In these cases the peritonitis is often of tuberculous origin. Pressure External to the Bowel.—Finally, chronic obstruction may be ■caused by sources of compression external to the intestine itself, among which may be mentioned various forms of abdominal abscess, tumors of the solid viscera, the pressure of a retroverted uterus, etc. It must not be forgotten that in any case of chronic obstruction, acute symptoms may be suddenly developed as the result of secondary volvulus, kinking,” occlusion by gall-stones or fecal masses, or the development of ■enteritis. Symptoms of Intestinal Obstruction. It may be said, in general terms, that in chronic obstruction, the symptoms are mainly due to the impeded passage of the intestinal contents, or, in other words, are symptoms of obstruction merely, and that in acute obstruction there are superadded the symptoms of strangulation. Symptoms of Acute Obstruction.—The most important of these are pain, abdominal tenderness, vital depression, vomiting, constipation, lessened How of urine, tympanites, and, in cases of intussusception, the presence of a tumor. Pain.—The pain of acute intestinal obstruction (miserere mei) is extreme, and often agonizing. In strangulation by a band, or in internal hernia, it •commonly begins abruptly and continues without intermission, though often diminishing somewhat in severity as the case progresses; in volvulus and in intussusception, on the other hand, the pain is usually at first paroxysmal, •with intervals of comparative ease, hut afterwards becomes constant, though even then presenting periods of exacerbation. The pain is often referred to a particular spot in the abdomen, and in a certain number of cases this is found after death to have corresponded with the locality of the lesion. In more cases, however, the sensations of the patient upon this point are decep- tive, and no direct connection can be traced between the seat of pain and the strangulated bowel. In the majority of cases, probably, the pain is referred to the neighborhood of the umbilicus (tormina), possibly owing, as suggested by Mr. Treves, to the fact that the solar plexus is situated a little above that posi- tion. The cause of the pain which accompanies acute intestinal obstruction is in the first place the direct injury to the bowel and mesentery produced by their strangulation ; afterwards the violent peristalsis which ensues, and which is abruptly checked at the seat of obstruction, causes exacerbations of suffering; and, finally, additional sources of pain are the extreme distension of the gut which sometimes follows, and the development of inflammation in the bowel itself or in the peritoneum. In the early stage, the pain of acute obstruction may be somewhat relieved by pressure, but after the development of peri- tonitis it is aggravated by the slightest touch. A sudden cessation of pain (without the strangulation having been relieved) indicates the occurrence of collapse or gangrene. Abdominal tenderness is usually absent in the earliest stage of acute ■obstruction, though in cases of simple enteritis it is present from the begin- ning. In volvulus and intussusception it is soon developed—in connection