798 OVARIAN AND UTERINE TUMORS. and the patient is placed carefully in bed, and for a week treated in all re- spects as if an ovariotomy had been performed. More or less peritonitis naturally results; hut this is generally localized, and rarely dangerous; and experience demonstrates that the resulting condi- tions are less fraught with peril than those which follow the circular wound caused by an ordinary trocar. Twice during the past year have I been compelled to resort to this proceed- ing ; once in a case of extensive ascites from diffused papilloma of the perito- neum, complicated by a small sessile cyst in the iliac fossa; and once in a case of soft fibroma which was so elastic as closely to simulate the sense of fluctua- tion given by a cyst with thick walls. In neither case was the tumor removed; in the first, because it was only a minor complication, and would have left an extensive surface from which it would have been impossible to arrest the oozing of blood ; in the second, because dense and extensive intestinal adhesions ren- dered hysterectomy (the tumor being inseparable from the womb) unjustifi- able, while the patient’s strength was only moderately impaired. Both patients recovered without a drawback, and have since enjoyed tolerable health. I might cite similar cases which I have witnessed in the practice of others, were additional evidence necessary to illustrate the wisdom of resorting to explorative incisions. Such are the numerous means by which an exact opinion may be reached in a case of supposed ovarian cyst, and the consideration of which brings us to the important question of differential diagnosis. Before entering upon this, it is well to restate briefly the chief signs of a typical cystoma, which are these: when the patient lies recumbent, the abdomen is protuberant and rounded, with little or no sagging at the flanks as in ascites; the sensation on deep pressure is firm and resisting; percussion is dull, especially on one side of the median line, while on the other it may he clearer; fluctuation is appa- rent, and, generally, quite distinct; a vaginal examination shows the womb to be movable and unconnected with the tumor ; and both in the vagina and in the rectum the recognition of deep fluctuation is corroborated. Diagnosis.—In the differentiation of ovarian cysts, the following groups of disease or of complication have to be carefully considered and excluded:— 1. Morbid conditions of the abdominal walls. 2. Pregnancy, normal and abnormal. 3. Intra-abdominal disease, producing marked distention. 1. The first of these groups includes (1) oedema of the abdominal walls; (2) obesity; (3) phantom tumor, or tonic spasm ; (4) spurious pregnancy. (1) CEdema of the abdominal walls is characterized by deep pitting on pres- sure with the finger, and by uniform dulness on percussion ; it is usually accompanied by oedema of the extremities and by the usual signs of renal or hepatic disease. Sometimes it coexists with an ovarian cyst, when deep fluctuation can always he detected. (2) Obesity is often met with about the menopause, when, in many women, fat rapidly accumulates in the mesentery, omentum, or abdominal wall. Here the umbilicus is hollow and deeply depressed, and the thick layer of subcu- taneous fat can be demonstrated by grasping it with the hand ; or, when the deposit is intra-abdominal, a vague, tumor-like mass is felt, soft, rather doughy, gradually yielding to firm pressure, and never giving fluctuation on percussion. (3) “ Phantom tumor” is caused by persistent or tonic spasm of the recti muscles, and is commonly seen in hysterical women. Here percussion is resonant or nearly so, the “ tumor” may he displaced by steady pressure while the patient’s attention is diverted ; but the crucial test is anaesthesia, under