INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE BLADDER AND PROSTATE. 416 be fixed at any desired position to suit the varying depth of prostate and tissues. The instrument is also adapted to other purposes. The only alternative, in the case just narrated, would have been to tap the bladder above the pubis and establish a permanent opening. I consider that the method adopted had some decided advantages. Tapping the bladder above the pubis is not unlike opening an abscess at its least dependent point. Urine ascends the canula at a disadvantage as far as concerns the carrying oft'with it of the products of cystitis, which in these cases are present in some degree. My object in planning this operation was to obtain, not only the most convenient position for the external opening, in all postures of the body, but further to provide what I can best describe as a short, low-level urethra, adapted to the altered relations of the bladder and prostate when the latter becomes enlarged, for the purpose of securing the most complete drainage. When this operation is practised on a distended bladder there is no difficulty or danger in its performance; it is quite as simple as any of the other methods of reaching the organ. I believe, too, that this method is applicable when, though there is no retention, a constant state of vesical irri- tability and inflammation render it essential that a permanent opening should be established. Under these circumstances, before introducing the trocar, a sound should be passed into the bladder and reversed, so that the beak may rest in the depression behind the prostate. It is against this that the point of the trocar should be directed. In connection with the operation of tapping the bladder through the hyper- trophied prostate, it is interesting to observe that a considerable reduction in the size of the gland followed upon the retention of the canula. Whether Fig. 1303. Tapping the bladder from the perineum through an enlarged prostate. the constant pressure of the tube, acting possibly as a seton, in any way contri- buted to this result, is conjectural. I have known a similar change follow the incising of a large prostate in lithotomy, and a case has been communicated to me by Mr. Weston, one of the surgeons to the Stafford Infirmary, in which he punctured the bladder twice through an enormously large prostate, and retained a canula, with the result that the growth considerably decreased in size, and ceased permanently to obstruct micturition. Such changes in the