784 THE CESAREAN SECTION AND ITS SUBSTITUTES. were not offensive at any time. The wound x-emained open for five months, closing in December. This case was also operated upon in hospital. These two operations, it will be noticed, were altogether different in charac- ter, and the cases were very unlike in the gravity of their convalescent periods. Neither was an average example of their condition as extra-uterine pregnancies, one because there was no cyst, and the other because it admitted of exsection at seven months. What renders primary laparotomy addition- ally dangerous, is the variety of location and the intimacy of connection of the placenta, which more than once has been cut into in opening the abdo- men. In 1791, Mr. William Turnbull, of London, presented before the Medical Society of that city,1 a series of drawings representing the appear- ances of a case which he had examined after death, showing the difficulties that may be encountered in attempting this operation. In his case, when the abdomen was opened, the foetus was found covered-in by the intestines, the only parts visible being its two hands and the top of its head and face up under the stomach. The prognosis of an operation upon such a case must necessarily be very unfavorable. Every extra-uterine pregnancy nearing maturity must be an object of special interest, in view of all the risks to he considered, either immediate or in prospect. If the woman is evidently nearing her end, there can be no question about the propriety of operating at once. If she is simply in dan- ger of what may occur when the false labor usual at foetal maturity comes on, we must consider whether the possibility of the cyst bursting is to out- weigh the risk of a primary operation. If we wait until the foetus is dead, we may lose the patient suddenly, but then it is known that a majority of cases pass over this period of danger in comparative safety. If the woman does escape, she mlay after a few weeks be operated upon with a fair prospect of entire recover?. But we are told that this is the age of pro- gress in abdominal surgery, and that with antiseptics, drainage, and irriga- tion, we ought to be able to save a primary case, and that pkst statistics should not weigh against our attempting to save two lives rather than one. This is certainly a tempting consideration, and no doubt trials will be made in the near future, hut we must not be too sanguine in making a prognosis. Take a case like this, for example: In October, 1875, three prominent Philadelphia obstetricians met daily in consultation for sixteen days over the case of a lady who was suffering the pains of false labor, in the effort of nature to discharge an extra-uterine foetus which was alive during their early visits. As they could not promise the husband that an operation would probably save the life of his wife, they waited for the time to come when they could do this ; but while doing so, and when the lady appeared to he getting better, she was suddenly seized with agonizing pains followed at once by a state of collapse, and died in thirty minutes. There was no autopsy, but after similar symptoms in other cases, there has been found either a laceration of the cyst or a large hemorrhage into it. Other experiences similar to this might he given, but this one is sufficient on which to base the question: should a primary operation he attempted in such a case? Should such a case and question be submitted to a body like the Obstetrical Society of Lon- don, widely opposing opinions would be brought forth. Mr. Lawson Tait recommends that we should make an exploratory inci- sion into the abdomen and examine the character and connections of the foetal cyst, to determine whether the operation can be completed without too much risk. This would require a long incision; and without the re- 1 Memoirs Med. Soc. Lond., vol. iii. pp. 17(1-214. 1792.