EXPLORATION OP THE BLADDER. 307 when encysted, to determine the extent to which it is encircled. But in practice this is often found to be difficult. The sound may appear to move the calculus in all directions, but it may be the bladder which moves; or the calculus may appear immovable when it is entirely free, but within a contracted organ. The sound may be made to move around the calculus with great difficulty, yet the calculus may be free, for a large stone in a dis- eased and thickened bladder is not easily defined; and, on the other hand, the sound may be made to move around the calculus with much freedom though it be adherent. In 1872 I operated by lithotomy upon a boy from St. Ours. The stone was at once detected, and the sound moved around it freely, but more than half the calculus was deeply imbedded in the left ureter, from which, however, it was easily withdrawn. Sometimes the stone is more or less hidden in a pouch of the bladder from which it cannot be removed. P. Derome, aged 72, had been for many years the subject of the usual symptoms of stone in the bladder. On examination, I found a calculus of about 1^ inches in diameter lying at the back part of the organ, behind the prostate. I used the lithotrite, and had no difficulty in reducing a considerable portion of the stone to powder. Short sittings, and not too frequent, were then in order. Ten days afterwards I again used the lithotrite, but was able to remove but a trifling quantity. I then suggested lithot- omy, but to this the patient was reluctant to submit. He died, and a post-mortem examination, at which Mr. (now Dr.) Roddick assisted, showed a calculus, its free convexity broken away by the lithotrite, and reduced apparently to about two-thirds of its original volume, deeply imbedded in the posterior wall of the bladder. It is not always easy, when sounding for stone, to distinguish between the surface of the mucous membrane of the bladder and the surface of the pouch in which the stone is imbedded, and especially when the stone is large, and the bladder rugous or diminished in capacity. But these sacs or pouches in the bladder, containing calculi, are fortunately of rare occurrence. When the presence of a calculus is clearly made out, and its size, form, quality, and situation determined, means for its removal are to be considered, for the number of persons reported as cured without operation—either spon- taneously, or by galvanism, electricity, or injections, even when conducted in that ingenious manner styled litholysis,1 when the stone is large., or by the use of mineral waters by the mouth, bladder, rectum, or skin, in cases of smaller calculi2—is too small to justify the postponement of operative measures. Some persons, it is true, have been cured without operation. The calculi, when small, have passed by the urethra ; but generally this spontaneous passage occurs soon after they have reached the bladder, and before they have attained the size of a grain of wheat or maize. Calculi have been known to find their exit by ulceration through the perineum and the rectum; but the faint hope of such a termination should induce no sane 1 Proposed, but, as far as I know, never practically adopted, by the late Dr. John Duncan, and published in the Edinburgh Medical Journal: the calculus was to be encased, while in the bladder, in a thin pouch of highly vulcanized India-rubber, introduced by a suitable contrivance ; and with the interior of this pouch, containing the stone, free communication was to be had through the urethra by means of two small rubber-tubes, through one of which the operator could, at will, inject any stated quantity or kind of solvent which he might require for dealing with any par- ticular formation, the remaining tube being for the exit of the disintegrated stone in solution. 2 The curious in this matter are referred to the works of Ambroise Pare for a number of pre- scriptions in vogue at the time, and which received that writer’s approbation, for the cure of stone without operation. They are, if nothing more, illustrations of the polypharmacy of the period, and comprise: “Syrop;” “Bouillon;” “ Poudre singuliere “Clystere;” “Autre clystere pour appaiser la douleur;” “ Breuvage fort commendable;” “Apozeme;” “Poudre fort propre & dissiper la matiere du calcul;” “Clystere facile;” “Frictions;” “Vomisse- ments ;” “Bains;” “ D£coctuin pour faire un demy bain“Decoction a, faire clystere;” “Poudre propre a comminuer le sable,” etc.