ORTHOPAEDIC SURGERY. 1010 standing, while the two latter may exist together or separately. The relative degree to which the three conditions are present in any case, depends upon the original cause of the deformity, and upon the length of time that it has existed. In equinus the result of paralysis, the characteristics of the deformity will be determined by the nature of the disturbing influence in the initiatory nerve- lesion ; when paralysis of the anterior muscles is complete and persistent, the foot falls to a state of extreme extension, which is increased by con- traction of the gastrocnemius and soleus muscles; accompanying such a condition there may also be general loss of power of the muscles of the lower extremity, to such an extent that the subject has no power to use the leg in walking or standing; a crutch is used, and the foot is never subjected to pressure from having to bear the weight of the body, and the deformity does not advance beyond the stage of abnormal extension of the foot upon the leg. When the limb is used, the progress of the deformity in these cases of ex- treme paralysis consists in folding backwards of the forepart of the foot in the manner already described; distortion of the foot is then added to the extension at the ankle-joint. When after the paralytic attack the flexors of the foot retain some power of contractility, the condition of equinus-devel- opment will be of the nature illustrated in Figs. 1466 and 1467; in such cases the principal feature of deformity is the change in the shape of the foot itself. In spasmodic equinus, where contraction excited in the extensor muscles is the immediate cause of distortion, and where the foot is from its inherent strength able to support fairly well the pressure to which it has to submit, the extension of the foot on the leg is the most prominent symptom, and only in long-standing cases do shortening of the sole and widening of the metatarsal bones take place. The following tabular statement of the various stages of paralytic and spasmodic equinus, will perhaps render clearer the points to be observed in deciding upon the course of treatment to be adopted for relief of the deformity. Paralytic Equinus. Early stage. Advanced stage. Slight loss of power Partial falling of foot, with Slight contraction of plantar fascia and of flexor muscles. slight contraction of tendo deepening of arch of foot. Tendo Achillis. Acliillis very slightly if at all con- tracted. Greater less of power of flexor muscles. Complete loss of power of flexors of foot. Considerable falling of foot, drawing up of toes, and in- ability to flex foot beyond a right angle. Extreme extension of foot on leg, with elevation of heel. Considerable deepening of arch, and contraction of plantar muscles and fascia ; widening of forepart of foot; heel slightly raised. Forepart of foot folded backwards, and dorsum placed on the ground ; heel raised. If general paralysis of lower extremity exists, the foot remains as in first stage. Spasmodic Equinus. Slight contraction of extensors of foot. Early stage. Achilles tendon slightly con- tracted ; heel raised an inch or so in walking, but foot can be flexed when muscles are at rest. Advanced stage. Foot can only be brought to right angle with leg; heel much raised when walking. Slight contraction of sole of foot. Severe contraction of Increased contraction of tendo extensors of foot. Achillis. Foot can only be flexed to a right angle when leg is at rest. Heel much raised, and walking powers very defective ; contraction of tendo Achillis very marked; arch some- what deepened, and forepart of foot widened. To relieve the deformity of the foot, the measures of treatment that may be resorted to are of three kinds: mechanical treatment, which consists in the use of various instruments intended to bring the foot to its normal shape;