INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTION. 68 extending from the left side of the second lumbar vertebra obliquely downwards to the right sacro-iliac symphysis, and maintains that by examining the me- senteric attachment of any loop of bowel that may he found, it can be deter- mined which is its upper end, and in which direction therefore the search should be pursued. It must he obvious, however, that the relations of parts may be so changed by the presence of adhesions, or by alterations in the mesentery itself, that this ingenious suggestion cannot be always available. The seat of obstruction having been found, the course to be pursued de- pends upon its nature. Strangulating bands or adhesions must be divided* if necessary between two ligatures; if the bowel be caught in a slit in the omentum, or mesentery, or if there be an internal hernia, the constricted gut must be released. If the case be found to be one of volvulus, an attempt should be made to untwist and replace the bowel, and if this cannot he done, the distended segment should he opened and an artificial anus established, or the part if gangrenous should be cut away, in the manner which will be described when I come to speak of enterectomy. If the obstruction be due to the impaction of a foreign body, gall-stone, or enterolite, enterotomy should be performed, and the offending substance removed, the case being then treated as one of wounded intestine. Stricture of the bowel requires the establishment of an artificial anus, or, if the stricture be malignant, perhaps enterectomy; and the same course should be pursued if the case should prove to be one of intussusception, if the invagination were irreducible or the gut already gangrenous. In attempting to reduce an intussusception, more can usually be accomplished by gentle squeezing and pushing from below, than by pulling from above; it may be sometimes necessary to open the bowel below the invagination so as to introduce a linger to act directly upon the- intussusceptum. In all these manipulations, great care must be taken to avoid injuring the distended bowel, which may readily be ruptured by even slight violence, and, as already mentioned, it is important that no protrusion should be per- mitted : indeed Ruata advises that, in any case, if the cause of obstruction cannot be discovered without allowing the bowels to escape from the abdom- inal cavity, an artificial anus should be at once established. If the bowel is not to be opened, the external wound should be immedi- ately closed, after carefully removing, by sponging, all effused fluids from the peritoneum. Any ligatures that are required should be cut short, so as to allow of their becoming encysted, and the edges of the wound should he accurately adjusted with numerous silk sutures, as after the operation of ovariotomy. If peritonitis be present at the time of the operation, it will be prudent to fix a drainage-tube at the lower end of the incision. With regard to the use of what are called “ antiseptic precautions” in this operation, 1 think the spray objectionable, as likely to chill the exposed abdominal viscera; but I can see no harm in the surgeon adopting the other measures recommended by Sir Joseph Lister, if he thinks that by doing so he renders the operation safer for his patient. It is to be observed, however, that Sir Joseph Lister has himself declared that “ antiseptic measures” are less important in abdominal operations than in any others—the peritoneum being inapt for absorption of septic matters—and that two at least of the most successful operators on the abdomen (Dr. Keith and Mr. Lawson Tait), have abandoned “ Listerism” as positively injurious. It may be added, too, that the mortality of laparotomy for intestinal obstruction is shown by statis- tics to have upon the whole somewhat increased since the prevalence of “ anti- septic surgery.” The statistics of laparotomy for obstruction of the bowels have been studied by numerous writers, including Adelmann and Schramm in Germany; Dela-