SCROFULO-TUBERCULOUS AFFECTIONS OF BONES. 907 afterwards increasing in consistence, while at the same time its color becomes reddish in consequence of the formation of a vascular network spreading ovei its surface. From this network depart a number of prolongations which pene- trate the areolae of the bone-tissue, and unite the membrane to the walls of the cavity. The internal surface of the sac is likewise shaggy ; its texture is com- posed of white, fibrous, inextensible, felted filaments,and represents, “in minia- ture proportions, the texture of the capsules of the joints.’'’ (Helaton.) “Ex- amined under the microscope, this membrane appears to be composed of anatomical elements like those of the matter contained in its interior.” From this citation it will be seen that Nekton had already described the process of encysting and of extension of tuberculous products, upon which M. Lannelongue has recently dwelt in connection with abscesses by congestion. I understand the series of phenomena which end in the formation of an encysted conglomerate in the following way. Bacilli or micrococci, having been introduced into the circulation, become stranded in the capillary of a Haversian canal, and set up around them the special inflammatory reaction which receives the name of tuberculous follicle, gray granulation, etc., alto- gether analogous to that which an inert, non-specific foreign body produces. As in every osteitis, the bone-tissue becomes dissolved ; a lacuna of Howship is created. The bacilli multiply; they invade new vessels, and provoke new tuberculous formations; other canals of Havers are involved; and so on inde- finitely. By ceaseless multiplication of the parasites—a multiplication which establishes an essential difference between the perturbing action of tuberculous parasites and that of lion-parasitic foreign bodies, and which explains the difference in extent and in gravity of the disorders which they respectively produce—and by the eliminative inflammation which they excite, it comes to pass that a certain part of the bone is implicated and destroyed. The central tubercles, being ill-nourished, undergo caseous degeneration, while those of the periphery preserve their character in the midst of the fibro- embryonic tissue which secondary inflammation has produced around them. This invaded peripheral portion of the bone constitutes what is called the encysting membrane. In proportion as the bacilli invade the neigh- boring bony layers, the most central portions of the false membrane un- dergo in turn caseation from being deprived of the nutrient juices, the access of which is prevented by the obliteration and destruction of the capillaries. The micro-organism of encysted tubercle is probably not the same as that of tuberculous osteopathies with a more markedly invading and acute course. It may not be the bacillus of Ivoch ; it may be one of its evolutionary forms, either more perfect or less advanced. It is quite reasonable to think that the different forms of tuberculosis depend upon different micro-organisms, or, better still, upon a single parasite -with many metamorphoses, and which, according to its soil, goes more or less completely through the cycle of its possible destiny. However this may be, the reaction which it causes is but slight in encysted tubercle. The invading process stops, doubtless, when the general and local conditions cease to be favorable to the generation and life of the parasite. Such is my idea of the course of encysted tubercle. There remain for us to study the bone-cavity of the encysted tubercle and the parts which surround it. The tuberculous cavity is situated either at the centre or on the surface of the bone. When it is central, the cavity is more or less rounded; sometimes it is anfractuous and lias diverticuli. Its surface is usually smooth, but sometimes studded with needles of bone, which Nekton compared to the papillae of the tongue of a cat or tiger. Sometimes the walls are formed of “ heterogeneous tissues, such as osseous, fibrous and cartilaginous.” It is thus when the cavity has perforated the connecting