747 EPISIORRAPHY. the extent of the former being increased, so that strictly speaking the opera- tion is a colpo-perineorraphy. Different forms have been given to the vaginal and vulvar denudation by different operators. The annexed illustrations (Figs. 1424, 1425) show those of Simon and of Hegar, the surfaces not only having been freshened, but the vaginal sutures, superficial and deep stitches alternating, and the perineal sutures, having been introduced. The following illustration (Fig. 1426) shows the increase in extent of the perineum from Schroeder’s operation, already described ; the upper end of the line a, shows the anterior boundary of the original perineum, and the begin- ning of the added portion. Fig. 1425. Fig. 1426. Colpo-perineorraphy. (Hegar’s method.) Kestoration of perineum by Schroeder’s method. The form of denudation recommended by Hegar is a triangle. Usually this triangle has a base of six or seven centimetres, and its height is seven centimetres; but if the prolapsus be very great, the base of the triangle may be eight centimetres, and its height even nine centimetres. Tenacu- lum-forceps are applied at the apex and at the sides of the triangular flap to be removed, lateral incisions are made, and then the dissection begins at" the apex; after the upper portion is free, traction may be made upon it, the separation being completed partly by tearing, and partly by cutting with the bistoury. After the removal of the flap, the surface from which it was detached is made even by the scissors. The removal of the flap can be done in five or ten minutes, and the more quickly this is done the less is the hemorrhage, which often ceases when the flap is completely removed. The vaginal sutures, alternately deep and superficial, are of silver wire, and the perineal sutures of silk; it is probable that both may be usefully replaced by catgut. Episiorraphy. Episiorraphy is an operation designed to partially occlude the vulvar orifice in order to prevent prolapsus of the vagina or of the uterus. A horse- shoe-shaped denudation is made of the lower two-thirds of the vulvar orifice some surgeons remove the nymphse—and the freshened surfaces are stitched together. Anger has varied the ordinary method by not removing the flap; he dissects it from almost all the circumference of the vaginal entrance, beo-in-