LITHOTRITY. 320 the recumbent posture to retard their departure. This practice has since,, till comparatively recently, been very generally observed. For washing out the bladder, it is necessary that tepid water should reach the organ in sufficient volume to bring back with it in its retluence the debris of the calculus. It is necessary, therefore, that it should reach the bladder with a certain degree of rapidity, and with a certain amount of force. And here precisely is where the difficulty appears to occur: an elastic bag in the grasp of an assistant’s hand at one end of an unyielding tube; and affiladder more or less diseased—with ureters perhaps unhealthy, and kidneys more or less changed in structure—at the other. Every pressure of the hand on the rubber bag is felt at every portion of the bladder, and through the constricted orifices of the ureter, the pelvis of the kidney, and even through its tubuli uriniferi at the cortical walls. I confess that in the performance of rapid litho- trity, my chief anxiety formerly began with the injections; not that the integrity of the passive, good-natured bladder was to be feared, but rather that of the delicate structures beyond, whose office it was to separate from the circulating fluid the peccant urea which it contained. For, however correctly we may estimate the propelling force at one end, we cannot so easily estimate the resisting power at the other. Sometimes the bladder commences its expulsive efforts at the first entrance of the fluid, and it is not easy to distin- guish between the normal resistance offered by a healthy bladder when full,, and the spasmodic efforts of an irritable one to prevent its becoming full. The bladder may, without much disturbance of its functions, suffer a certain degree of gradual distention from within; but distention from without by a fluid which, however bland, is foreign to it, is not equally free from mischief. I have always observed, when patients have been under the influenceof chloro- form, and have generally been assured by those who were not under the influ- ence of an anaesthetic, that their sufferings began with the injection of water, and not when the lithotrite was doing its work of disintegration and before any effort was made to urinate. Still, as the advantages of getting rid of a calculus are so great, and as there are but two methods of effecting this rapid delivery, that by washing out the bladder will continue to be the favorite in the greater number of cases. But great gentleness in manipulation and light- ness in pressure, with due recognition of the resistance which the bladder offers to the distending liquid, must be cultivated. As the accoucheur can perceive uterine contractions before the patient herself, so likewise can the surgeon recognize the efforts of the bladder to expel its contents before the patient is aware of them. But rapid lithotrity, in the days when it was first recommended, was not what is meant by that term to-day. Rapid lithotrity meant operating as- long and as often as it was believed that the bladder would tolerate the pre- sence of a solid instrument within it, without in any manner jeopardizing its integrity. Rapid lithotrity meant crushing a stone, waiting for the blad- der to recover itself (a period usually thought to be not less than three or four days), and then searching for the fragments and dealing with them as in the first instance; and that lithotrity was most rapid in which the shortest interval existed between the sittings. Cautious men allowed intervals of ten or fifteen days, and limited each sitting to four or five minutes. Rapid lithotrity to-day, however, means something far more rapid and far-reaching in its operation, and far more satisfactory in its results. Rapid litho- trity often means the removal of a calculus at a single sitting; a most desirable result, certainly, but one which must sometimes be purchased at the expense of much unnecessary inconvenience and suffering. Rapid litho- trity, conducted with care and prudence, and with due regard to the patient's general and local condition, is a most satisfactory procedure ; but rapid litho-