1150 APPENDIX. paracentesis was performed, as was also done in abdominal dropsies. The rectum was explored bj" an appropriate speculum ; fistula in ano and hemor- rhoids were operated upon ; club-feet were adjusted by bandaging and the use of stiff leather and leaden shoes; the bladder was explored by sounds for the detection of calculi; lithotomy was performed by specialists ; gangrenous and mangled limbs were amputated ; the dead foetus was extracted with instruments from the uterus; venesection, scarification, and cupping were also practised in the days of Hippocrates. In reading his works, we are impressed with the candor and honesty, as well as with the caution and practical experience, of this grand old master. In speaking of injuries of the head, he cautions the surgeon against hazarding a hasty prognosis, even though the case may appear at first to be a very slight one. Everywhere he exhibits caution without timidity, and yet we have abundant evidence of his boldness in practice, and of the astonishing amplitude of his resources. In the fourth section of “ The Law,” he declares that “ inexperience is a bad treasure, and a bad fund to those who possess it, whether in opinion or reality, being devoid of self-reliance and contentedness, and the nurse both of timidity and audacity. For timidity betrays a want of powers, and audacity a want of skill.” As the writings of Hippocrates afford us the earliest information concern- ing ancient surgery, it is desirable to make a somewhat extended analysis of the principles and practice of the art as contained in these precious memo- rials, in order that the reader may be the better prepared to understand and appreciate what additions and improvements each subsequent age has con- tributed towards the advancement of surgical knowledge and the evolu- tion of our present system of surgical science. In the examination of the monumental works of successive surgical authors, we will be thus enabled to observe to what extent they have adhered to the teachings of the Hippocratic school, and how far they have adopted newer methods, and developed improved principles, in the treatment of surgical cases. It will be the most interesting and instructive plan to make brief extracts from the works of Hippocrates, which will at the same time illustrate the style of this ancient author, and furnish examples of his careful modes of observation. His treatise on the articulations commences with an elaborate account of dislocations of the shoulder-joint, and the several modes of reducing the same. He says:— I am acquainted with one form in which the shoulder-joint is dislocated, namely, that into the armpit; I have never seen it take place upwards nor outwards; and yet I do not positively affirm whether it might be dislocated in these directions or not; although I have something which I might say on this subject. But neither have I ever seen what I considered to be a dislocation forwards. Physicians, indeed, fancy that the dislocation is very apt to occur forwards, and they are more particularly de- ceived in those persons who have the fleshy parts about the joints and arm much emaciated ; for in all such cases the head of the humerus appears to protrude forwards. And I, in one case of this kind, having said that there was no dislocation, exposed myself to censure from certain physicians and common people on that account, for they fancied that I alone was ignorant of what everybody else was acquainted with, and I could not convince them but with difficulty that the matter was so. But if one wNl strip the joint of the shoulder of the fleshy parts, and where the muscle (deltoid?) extends, and also lay bare the tendon that goes from the armpit and clavicle to the breast (pectoral muscle?), the head of the humerus will appear to protrude strongly for- wards, although not dislocated, for the head of the humerus naturally inclines forwards, but the rest of the bone is turned outwards. The humerus is connected obliquely with the cavity of the scapula, when the arm is stretched along the sides; but when the whole arm is stretched forwards, then the head of the humerus is in a line with the cavity of the scapula, and no longer appears to protrude forwards.