URINARY CALCULUS. 150 2 Op. cit., p. 61. polarity of the crystal which would otherwise form, and that the molecules simply obeyed the law of mutual attraction. The gum was intermixed with the lime in the spheres. When spheres so formed are placed in new solutions of gum of different specific gravity, they lose their laminated arrangement, split radially, and return to the molecular condition, a process termed by Mr. Rainey “ mole- cular disintegration.” This splitting of a concretion in a fluid of different specific gravity from that in which it was formed, is beautifully illustrative of what sometimes takes place in the human bladder in the spontaneous fracture of stone. Rainey obtained similar results by the use of the carbonates of barium and strontium. Professor Harting, of Utrecht, in 1872, published some original work in the same direction. William M. Ord has followed up Rainey’s investiga- tions with some excellent independent researches directed mainly toward investigating the method of formation of urinary and other calculi, publish- ing the final results of his labors in 1879.1 Professor F. Guthrie, and Drs. Montgomery, Jevons, Aseherson, and others, have labored in the same field. Dr. Ord’s second proposition is the following :— “ A crystalloid is deposited from solution in the presence of a colloid. This occurs in ... uric acid and urates mixed with albumen and mucus, in nitrate of urea crystallized from albuminous urine.” The third proposition is—in part:— “ Crystals are broken down and turned into spheres or spheroids, or molecules, by the action of colloids into which they are introduced,” etc. Uric acid exists in three forms:— 1. Rectangular, oblong, colorless plates—pure uric acid. 2. Rhombohedra and its modifications—urinary uric acid. 3. Spherical form—calculous uric acid. Ord states that ISTo. 1 is the proper crystalline form of uric acid, and that the changes in form which the urinary crystals present (40-50 varieties) are assumed in obedience to Rainey’s law of molecular coalescence, and vary with the quantity and quality of colloidal substances which the urine contains. The pure tendency to polarity in the crystals is modified, and mutual attrac- tion of the particles tends to produce curved lines in the crystalline form. Four substances in normal urine intluence the form of crystals: mucus, urea, extractive coloring matter, and salts. To these must be added the ingredients of pathological urine capable of modifying crystalline form: albumen, sugar, blood, and pus. To mucus and purulent mucus seems largely due the rounded form which uric acid assumes, so that by proper experi- ments Ord was enabled to form small uric acid calculi under his very eye, as it were. Heat intensifies the action of a colloid, and a colloid in partial degeneration seems to be particularly active. Such a colloid is purulent mucus. “Therefore,” says Ord,2 “if the causes of the varying prevalence of calculous disease in different communities and regions are to be fully and usefully examined, such sub- jects as constitutional proneness or indisposition to vesical catarrh, habits of life, diet, and regimen, or local conditions of soil, water, and climate, which can hinder or pro- mote the secretion of mucus or the occurrence of irritation in the urinary tract, must be carefully treated. And if such observations be applied to practice, we may hope to find 1 The Influence of Colloids upon Crystalline Form and Cohesion. London, 1879.