585 VARICOCELE. Morgan’s bandage, which is much in favor, is applied by lacing the testicle in a bag, which is then suspended by a strap passing from its base to a band buckled around the patient’s body. The upper end, the smaller, is retained in situ by a piece of thick leaden wire stitched in it. Mr. Wormald supported the testicle by drawing the lax skin of the scrotum through a soft silver ring covered with wash-leather, which was then made to squeeze the tissues. This is useful, and comfortable to the patient, as the ring is cooler than a suspensory bandage, and does not press on the bulb of the urethra. Mr. Curling advocates, in some cases which are thought to be unsuitable for operation, the use of a Moc-main lever truss, which is to be applied before the patient gets up of a morning; the pad is arranged so as to make gentle pressure on the veins at the external abdominal ring. This method of treatment affords relief by pressure when the pain is neuralgic and the varicocele not excessive in size, but is not applicable to cases of great dilata- tion and thickening of the veins. The improvement is necessarily slow. Radical Cure of Varicocele.—There are many methods in vogue for the rad- ical cure of varicocele. That by compression is known as M. Breschet’s method of operating, and is now seldom adopted. It is done with two small steel forceps, with separated brandies, which form segments of circles having teeth covered with linen, and which are brought together with a screw. The distended veins are separated from the vas deferens, and are compressed, together with a fold of scrotal skin, between the blades of the forceps. One pair of forceps is to be applied at the upper part of the varicocele, and the second pair about an inch below the first. The forceps are removed in twenty-four hours, when a hard, dry slough will be disclosed ; this will come away, and the wound will soon heal. The veins are filled with coagulated blood, which in course of time becomes absorbed, the veins remaining obliterated. Landouzy, by using a similar instrument, but hollowed out, preserves a bridge of skin along the free margin of the scrotum, between the eschars. M. Maisonueuve treats varicocele by injecting from twenty to twenty-five drops of the tincture of the perchloride of iron with a hypodermic syringe. The veins are carefully compressed on their proximal side, so as to prevent any of the fluid from being carried into the circulation.1 The operation performed by the old surgeons and recommended by Celsus, was to expose and tie the veins. Sir A. Cooper discarded the operation because it was dangerous, being often attended by phlebitis and death. Sir B. Brodie also records disastrous consequences following this operation.2 Operation by Occlusion of Veins.—M. Davat, as an outcome of his experi- ments on animals, recommended the following operation :3— A long steel harelip pin is to be passed between the vas deferens and the veins, and a soft silk thread is to be placed in figure-of-eight fashion around the projecting ends of the pin in front of the skin ; the ends of the pin are then to be removed by wire nippers. The silk is twisted tight enough to prevent the circulation of blood through the veins ; after a few days the coats of the latter are ulcerated through, and adhere together ; the blood coagulates, and the presence of the pins causes inflammation, which produces an effusion of lymph at the part operated on, and a firm swelling, matting the parts to- gether. When the pin has done its work, it is withdrawn. Mr. Henry Lee formerly operated on varicocele by passing several pins under the veins, about an inch from one another, and applying figures-of-eight. of soft, thick silk over their ends; this was the earliest improvement on Davat’s operation, as he only passed one pin. Mr. Lee at first divided the veins subcutaneously between the pins on 1 Medical Times and Gazette, vol. i. 1878. 2 Lond. Med. Gaz., vol. xiii. p. 379. 3 Archives G6n. de Medecine, 2e serie, t. xi. 1833.