435 TRAUMATIC LESIONS OF TIIE URETHRA. example in which he found, in consequence of the patient falling astride, a complete rupture of the mucous membrane at the level of the middle portion of the bulb. In case of incomplete rupture of the mucous membrane, it is the lower wall which is of'tenest injured. (3) In the third degree, there is a simultaneous rupture of the mucous mem- brane., of the spongy tissue, and of the fibrous membrane which surrounds it. The laceration is transverse; all the layers of the wall are broken at the same level, whence results a communication of the cavity of the urethra with the tissues of the perineum. But in this degree two perfectly distinct varieties may be recognized; the rupture is incomplete or complete. Incomp>lete rupture occupies only a part of the circumference of the urethra. Rarely the lesion is reduced to a simple perforation; most frequently the walls are extensively lacerated, but there remains a tongue of sound tissue joining the two ends, generally situated in the upper wall, and of great importance, whether as regards the possibility of catheterization, or as regards an opera- tion to search for the posterior end. In consequence of the elasticity of the wall of the urethra, the edges of the solution of continuity separate, leaving between them a gaping wound, more or less tilled up with accumulated clots. When the rupture is complete, the canal is divided transversely; the two ends, one posterior, the other anterior, are retracted, and separated by a distance which may vary from two to four centimetres; sometimes they are even placed laterally in regard to one another. Between them there is a cavity tilled with clots, which communicates with the soft parts of the perineum, and which afterwards will contain a mixture of pus, urine, and blood. The edges of the urethra, comprising the mucous membrane and the spongy body, form the anterior and posterior limits of the cavity. The spongy body, divided transversely, presents an irregular, jagged surface, which, examined under a stream of water, is seen to be covered with many filaments and with tufts, which are simply the trabeculte affected by the traumatism. The mucous membrane, curled up, wrinkled, and often hard to recognize, sometimes inter- poses a momentary obstacle to the passage of a catheter. In some cases the mucous membrane of the canal may be detached—dissected off, so to speak —and may be freely movable by its anterior extremity, and for a certain distance, in the focus of the rupture. In the membranous portion of the urethra the rupture is most frequently total, on account of the thinness of the walls and the feeble resistance of the surrounding muscles. It is only in altogether exceptional cases that the mucous membrane is simply frayed or split. Further, rupture here may similarly be complete or incomplete in regard to the circumference of the urethra. If there be a fracture of the pelvis, the displaced fragment may drag with it one of the divided edges of the urethra, and may thus produce a lateral displacement of the two ends such as I have already mentioned, and which will make especially difficult the search for the posterior segment. Complete rupture of the penile portion of the urethra is extremely rare. The fibrous tunic resists, as is explained by the very nature of the mechanism which determines the rupture, and which is almost never that of contusion. In the majority of cases the lesion consists of a rupture of the mucous membrane, and of a certain area of subjacent spongy tissue. Seat of Rupture.—In the penile portion of the urethra the seat of rupture corresponds to the point at which the rupturing force is applied, and its exact delimitation is of little importance. It is quite otherwise in regard to the perineal portion. This question of the seat of the lesion in ruptures of the urethra has been much discussed. According to Franc and Reybard, a rupture resulting from a contusion of the perineum is most frequently situ- ated in the portion of the urethra which extends between the triangular