1026 ORTHOPAEDIC SURGERY. scaphoid ligaments, which are shortened at birth, become so firmly contracted that they offer the chief obstacle to reduction of the deformity. The external appearances presented by a case of advanced varus correspond to the changes which occur in the structural shape of the foot; Fig. 1477 illustrates the foot of a boy aged six years, in whom congenital varus had been allowed to continue its course without the employment of any form of treatment for its relief. The parents of this boy were shown casts of the varying conditions of varus in its early stage, and selected one of quite a moderate degree of severity as showing a deformity similar to that which had existed in their son’s foot at birth ; in a comparatively short time, the distortion had reached the extreme condition illustrated in the drawing, which clearly indicates the great importance of overcoming congenital varus at as early a period of life as possible. The features exhibited m this case were quite characteristic of those usually presented in advanced varus : the heel is much raised, and the tendo Achil- lis is in prominent relief and firmly contracted ; below the heel, on the part of the foot which has been used in walking, is a large pad of thickened skin and cellular tissue, which supplies the place of the normal heel; this pad, when the deformity of the foot has been reduced by treatment, becomes situated on the upper surface of the dorsum, at about the seat of the cuboid bone. Running across the sole of the foot from its inner border, is a de- pression which corresponds to the transverse tarsal joint, and which arises from shortening of the foot and contraction of the plantar fascia; another groove, which passes forwards from this to the great and second toes, is caused by the folding together of the metatarsal bones ; and the front portion of the foot, from the same cause, presents a peculiar, twisted appearance. The con- dition here represented is by no means the ultimate state of deformity ; as age increases, the distortion advances, but the characteristics are of the same nature and differ from those above noticed only in degree. A further com- plication exists in these cases from the extreme wasting of the muscles; this is owing to their want of use, for, since the foot is almost immovable on the leg, these muscles are never called into action. The treatment of varus existing at a later period of life is carried on in the same manner that is followed in infantile cases; but it is necessary in this more severe condition of the deformity to divide the course of treatment into three stages; in the first stage the foot is brought in a straight line with the leg, in the second the contraction in the sole of the foot is overcome, in the third the elevation of the heel is reduced. It is of course always necessary to have recourse to tenotomy, and, as in the case of infantile varus, the tendons of the tibialis posticus and tibialis anticus muscles are first divided. The mecha- nical after-treatment is conducted on a similar plan to that already described, and by means of an outside splint attached to the leg the inversion of the foot is gradually reduced ; this part of the treatment cannot however be always successfully accomplished by mechanical extension alone, and when after six or seven weeks’ employment of the splint it is found that the foot still firmly resists the constant pressure that has been brought to bear upon it, it is necessary to have recourse to manipulative exercises, or, as it is tech- nically called, hand-working, to overcome the condition of inversion. The resisting structures which have to be dealt with are the shortened and contracted ligaments which connect the os calcis and astragalus with the scaphoid and cuboid bones ; these, from their situation, are of course not amenable to operative measures.1 The method of working the foot is very simple ; supposing that the right foot is under treatment, the heel is grasped 1 [R. W. Parker has, however, recently recommended and successfully practised subcutaneous section of the inner tarsal ligaments, and particularly of the astragalo-scaphoid.]