598 INJURIES AND DISEASES OP THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. Hypertrophy and Atrophy of the Testicle.—The normal weight of the testicle is said to be six drachms by Curling, eight by Sir A. Cooper, and between six and eight, the left being slightly larger than the right, by Gray. Hypertrophy of Testicle.—When one testicle is absent, that remaining in its- place may enlarge. In a case of the kind under the observation of Mr. Page, of Carlisle, the testicle in the scrotum weighed two ounces, two drachms, and two scruples. The organ was quite healthy in structure, and the epididymis was loaded with secretion.1 In a case reported by Mr. John Wood,2 the left testicle was in the iliac fossa, but the right was in the scrotum and normal in structure, though twice its natural size. In the case, however, of a lad whose left testicle wasted after acute orchitis following a blow, the sound testicle was of normal size only. A young man consulted me about his right testicle. I found that the left testicle was represented by a small, hard body about the size of a pea; the constituents of the left spermatic cord were not nearly as well developed as usual ; a body harder and more defined than the rest of the cord I took to be the vas deferens, and, if it was so, it was much smaller than usual. There was no history of any injury or disease of the part. The right testicle, about which he was anxious, thinking that it was diseased, Avas twice the normal size and much softer than usual to the touch. The scrotum was normal, but not quite as voluminous on the left side as on the right. From the history, and the want of development of the cord, I concluded that the defect on the left side was congenital; and that the right testicle was enlarged, but not diseased. Atrophy.—-In old age the testicles suffer from fatty degeneration and become atrophied, the vessels and tubes becoming contracted. An interesting specimen of arrested development of the testes and penis is preserved in the- Museum of St. Thomas’s Hospital :3— The testes, which are exposed by dissection, are not larger than horse-beans, and the epididymis on each side is quite equal in bulk to the testis, its structure being appar- ently normal. Each vas deferens is about half its usual diameter in an adult. The penis is not larger than that of a child, and the scrotum of proportionate size. On the skin of the pubes there is only a small quantity of fine, light-colored hair. The speci- men was furnished by a man aged fifty, whose voice was weak and effeminate; he had no hair on his face. He refused amputation for a compound fracture of leg, in con- sequence of the above-described condition of the genital organs which he wished to con- ceal. In some instances the situation of the epididymis is occupied by a mass of fat, the vas deferens being blocked. In other cases the testicles do not become developed at the time of puberty, but remain in the condition seen in the specimen above described ; the tubes are imperfectly developed, and do not secrete spermatozoa. The indi- viduals under these circumstances lack masculine attributes. Sometimes, where the testicles are undeveloped, the man can have intercourse, but does not beget children. It is stated on the authority of Wilson,4 that a gentle- man aged twenty-six, who had not experienced sexual desire until he met his wife, and whose penis and testicles about equalled in size those of a lad of eight years of age, married and begot children, his testicles becoming in a couple of years of the normal size. Wasting of the testes has been met with in cretins and idiots, after injuries to the head in the occipital region, after fractures and contusions of the spine,, and in some instances where the cause has not been very obvious. Mr. B. Travers presented to St. Thomas’s Hospital Museum, a specimen 1 Curling, op. eit., p. 63. 2 Trans. Path. Soc. Lond., vol. viii. p. 562. 3 St. Thomas’s Hospital Museum Catalogue, 1859. Section E. E. 4 Lectures on the Urinary and Genital Organs.