835 OPERATIONS FOR OVARIAN AND UTERINE TUMORS. that he had had eleven such eases with ten recoveries, and that the fatal case was, he thought, due to his mistaken treatment of the pedicle with a clamp. I have myself operated in three such cases, with one death which occurred in a case complicated by malignant disease. Many others are upon record, especially in Germany. Oophorectomy ; Battey’s Operation.—This operation, which has also been called normal ovariotomy, spaying, and female castration (castration derfrauen), consists in the extirpation of ovaries, which, although diseased, are not neces- sarily enlarged. It was first intelligently proposed as a remedial measure by Dr. James Blundell, who, in June, 1823, laid before the Royal Medical and Chirurgical Society of London1 a memoir in which he suggested extirpation of the ovaries for the relief of intolerable dysmenorrhcea, and to arrest recurrent hemorrhage in cases of inversion of the uterus. He did not, however, attempt it in prac- tice, and the proposition was forgotten. In 1872, Hegar, of Freiburg, and Dr. Robert Battey, of Rome, Georgia, almost simultaneously removed the ovaries for the cure of analogous conditions of disease—Hegar for intense ovarian neuralgia, Battey for insufferable dysmenorrhoea. Hegar’s patient died, and the case was not published; Battey’s recovered, and an account of his opera- tion appeared, with the author’s views and reasons for its performance, in the Medical and Surgical Journal of Atlanta, Ga., September, 1872, thus securing him priority in suggesting this measure to the profession. Mr. Lawson Tait says2 that a year previously, in 1871, he had come to the same decision under similar circumstances, and had operated in furtherance of this view in February, 1872. As his case did not see the light until 1873, it has not affected the claim of Dr. Battey, who will always be recognized by the profession as the practical author of the operation. Believing that ovulation was the cause of menstruation, Dr. Battey pro- posed the removal of the ovaries to anticipate and force the menopause, and chiefly in cases of dysmenorrhoea, or of mental and nervous disturbances caused by dysmenorrhoea. Prof. Hegar has assiduously pursued the subject with a different object, the checking of menstruation and metrorrhagia in cases of uterine fibroids. Of Mr. Tait’s special views mention will be made in the next section. The indications for Battey’s operation are : (1) Excessive and uncontrol- lable dysmenorrhoea; (2) Excessive menorrhagia or metrorrhagia; (3) Increas- ing menorrhagia with uterine fibroids: (4) Hystero-epilepsy, and allied con- ditions ; (5) Prolapsed ovaries and intractable ovaritis; (6) Recurrent perimetritis with dysmenorrhcea ; (7) Ovarian irritation with absence of uterus and vagina. It will at once be seen that these indications include two main groups : 1. Aeurotic conditions from ovarian irritation. 2. Llemorrhage with, or without, uterine tumors. Dr. Battey and his imme- diate followers have chiefly had in view the relief of the first group of cases. Trenholme and Hegar, and the latter’s followers 'in Germany and Great Britain, have operated mainly for the relief of the second. Operation.—As in ovariotomy, two methods are in vogue for performing extirpation of the ovaries, viz : 1. Vaginal extirpation, or elytrotomy ; 2. Abdominal extirpation, or laparotomy. 1. The vaginal method has been recommended in cases where the ovaries are prolapsed and movable in the cul-de-sac, and is thus performed:— Etherize the patient and place her in Sims’s semi-prone position, or in the 1 Aveling, Obstet. Journ. of Great Britain and Ireland, vol. vi. p. 617. 2 Disease of the Ovaries, American edition, pp. 323 and 326. 1883.