859 GENERAL SYMPTOMATOLOGY OE ACUTE INFLAMMATIONS OF BONE. But in a considerable number of cases it is not possible to pronounce with certainty upon this point, and one should even speak with reserve, on account of the anatomical and physiological relations of the different tissues of the bone. Inflammation of the central medulla or of the spongy tissue of the bone (endosteitis) is manifested from the beginning by dull and deep-seated pains. These soon assume a more or less acute character, and are cutting or gnawing; but what distinguishes them for a long time, when the patient is able to give a good account of his sensations, is their deep character, their intra-osseous situation. When they declare themselves without anything being apparent to sight or to touch on the surface of the bone; when neither periosteal nor parosteal swelling can be distinguished, nor excessive tenderness on pressure, a diag- nosis of osteo-myelitis or of osteitis beginning in the central part of the bone, should be made. If it be limited to the expanded portion of the bone, there is an osteo-myelitis of the spongy tissue, a juxta-epiphyseal osteitis; if it extend along the bone, if it correspond to the region occupied by the central marrow, the diagnosis of medullitis should be made. Often it will be found more or less in the two extremities of the diaphysis, the central portion being painless or having very little pain. This localization of pain in the two extremities of the diaphysis calls for a diagnosis of bi-polar osteo-myelitis. In some cases, before the appearance of the external, that is to say peri- osteal, swelling, these deep bone-pains are accompanied by a slight hydrar- throsis in the adjoining articulation or articulations. This is a valuable sign for the recognition of osteo-myelitis at its outset. But these deep pains, coinciding with an absence of periosteal swelling and of superficial pain, mark often only a very transient stage of the disease. Soon the periosteum swells and becomes sensitive, the parosteal layers are infiltrated, and the characteristics are observed which I have assigned to periostitis. But, if one has not witnessed the onset of the attack, and followed the development of the local manifestations, it is not possible to diagnosticate the initial lesion, and thus to say whether there has been originally a perios- titis or an osteo-myelitis. Then the diagnosis of osteitis is the only one acceptable from both a theoretical and a practical point of view. It will not do, then, to rely upon the exaggerated swelling of the periosteum and upon the apparent inci’ease in size of the bone, which is often considerable, and to say that the case is one of periostitis. To do so would be to commit a grave error. I have referred, in connection with osteitis experimentally produced, to the effect of indirect irritation of the periosteum; and I have mentioned the enormous sub-periosteal ossifications which I had observed in my experiments1 after irritation of the marrow. Clinical experience furnishes analogous examples every day. As a result of osteo-myelitis terminating in suppuration and the formation of deep sequestra which remain incarcerated, the tibia or femur may be seen to increase progressively in size and to attain an enormous thickness. There is no more pain, but the source of irritation persists and the plastic perios- titis continues. It may in the space of three months, as I have recently seen in the ulna of a patient twelve years old, provoke a sub-periosteal ossifi- cation which is double, or more than double, the real diameter of the bone. To penetrate to the medullary canal, I had first to go through a layer of new bone eight millimetres thick, and then through the old diaphysis which Traite de la Regeneration des Os, t. i. chap. v.