CANCER OF THE RECTUM. 123 The partial removal of the circumference of the bowel is in my opinion most unsatisfactory. In all the cases in which I have removed only part of the wall, there has been either a return of the disease in the rectum, or in the glands in the groin, or in some internal organ, mostly the liver. Up to the present time I have excised the rectum in its entire circum- ference in 36 patients. In my early cases my success was less than it has been since ; increased experience has taught me better ways of operating and more skill in arresting hemorrhage. I am not nearly as long in com- pleting the operation, and consequently my patients suffer less shock; they rarely lose more than four or five ounces of blood, and are in the average not under ether more than thirty minutes—in many cases, indeed, much less time than that. I never stop to tie bleeding vessels as I go, but put on forceps and leave them hanging. I use an ecraseur with whipcord, not wire, for cutting through the bowel. I prefer it because it can be more easily applied, and more accurately adjusted. It might be expected that in my long career I should have excised the rectum in many more cases than I have, but the fact is that few really good cases for the operation present themselves. Cancer often commences high up in the bowel, and only comes into reach after existing for some months. I have seen so many patients with cancer of the rectum who had recently been examined by eminent surgeons, and no disease found, that I have come to the conclusion that the disease existed, but had only very recently come within reach of the linger. Moreover, I have myself examined patients who had very marked symptoms of malignant disease of the bowel, but in whom I could not detect any disease in the rectum, and in less than three months these patients have again presented themselves, and the growth has been felt two inches from the anus. The mode of operating which I prefer in all serious cases, that is, when more than three inches of the rectum has to be removed, is that which has found most favor with French writers. The surgeon commences the operation by making a deep dorsal incision, beginning just in front of the tip of the coccyx, and carried high up the bowel. I consider this the “ key” to the operation; it affords plenty of room and wonderfully facilitates the details, such as securing vessels quickly, and performing delicate dissections of the parts adherent to the prostate and base of the bladder, or to the vagina. Further, it forms a deep drain through which all morbific matters run away, and through which the whole wound can be easily washed out with weak carbolic lotion, or some other antiseptic. In operating upon the male, a silver catheter should always be passed to steady the urethra and render the deep dissection safe and more rapid. I often keep a large tube in the rectum, after the operation, to favor the escape of flatus, which if retained sometimes causes the patient great pain. In women, an assistant’s finger should be introduced into the vagina to afford the surgeon timely warning of his approach to the mucous mem- brane. If obliged to take out a portion of the recto-vaginal wall, I am not anxious about it, as in all my cases in which this has been done I have repaired the damage at the time of the operation, and in nearly all success- fully. In cases where the disease does not extend very high up the rectum, it is possible to leave the sphincter muscle, and bring down the bowel so as to suture it to the skin. I certainly have not had the success some surgeons claim in such cases. I have several times found the traction so great as to tear out the sutures, and at other times fecal matter has got into the wound, and the sutures have had to be taken out to clear away pus, etc. In two patients only have I had good results, the skin uniting with the mucous membrane very secure!}7; both patients were women, thin, and very good subjects for the operation.