INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE URETHRA. 446 sage of the sound, and it will be possible, either by tapping it lightly or by rubbing against the obstacle with the beak of the sound, to gain a sufficiently exact notion of its consistence and of the state of its surface. If the calculus be very small, the sound may pass alongside of it, but in thus doing it will communicate to the operator a peculiar sensation of rubbing or grating. So far I have supposed that the surgeon has been summoned immediately; but is the diagnosis more difficult in the case of a stone which has been for a long time fixed in the urethra? The information furnished by the pa- tient is then incomplete or inexact, the sound itself may pass alongside of the foreign body, lodged in a pocket or dilatation of the canal, without eliciting any physical sign. It is necessary then, if there he a calculus of the penile portion, to palpate the penis thoroughly, and then to explore the canal with a curved sound, the point of which is directed toward the tumor which has been felt from the outside, and which is fixed with the fingers. Is there a calculus arrested in the membranous or prostatic portion? By palpating the perineum carefully, by practising the rectal touch, there is found a hard, immobile point, not well circumscribed, which might, it is true, be confounded with a tumor of the prostate, or with a urinary abscess in process of formation. But by inquiring carefully for its antecedents, the sur- geon will almost always discover some circumstances calculated to clear up the diagnosis. Thus, he will discover either that the patient has voided gravel, or that he has been seized at a given time with a sudden difficulty in urinating. At other times, sounding is easily carried out upon a patient in whom the presence of a urethral calculus is suspected, but the sound rubs against a hard and rough body in the deep portion of the canal. Under such circumstances one might hesitate between a calculus of the prostatic portion and a stone lying in the bladder close to the neck. In such a case one should explore the membranous and prostatic portions by the rectum, and find out that there is no tumor there. Then the prostate should be lifted up toward the pubis at the same time that the sound is gently introduced into the ure- thra. In this way the moment when it encounters the calculus can be learned. Further, a catheter with the opening at its tip might be used for this examination, and if, at the moment when it touches the stone urine does not flow, the calculus is urethral. Finally, on exploring the bladder with a lithotrite, if it be not possible to seize the calculus with this instrument, one may be sure that it is not in the bladder. It may happen that there is at the same time a calculus in the bladder, and another in the urethra. Then the first may be seized with the litho- trite, and the instrument be moved to and fro, when it will be easily felt to rub against a hard body situated in the canal. Prognosis.—When a calculus is small, it not infrequently happens that, after remaining a short time in the urethra, it is driven out by the stream of urine without having given rise to any disturbance. More voluminous stones, unless they undergo the modification which I have indicated in conse- quence of their long sojourn in the canal, inflame the tissues with which they are in contact, ulcerate through them, and end by escaping externally. If a calculus is so small as to interfere only moderately with the flow of urine, it may slowly ulcerate the walls of the urethra and burrow out a cavity in the neighboring tissues, large enough to wholly contain it. Calculi have been known to remain thus for a very long time, as if encysted, without the occurrence of anything to betray their presence ; then, under the influence of a new accession of inflammation, to make their way toward the skin, and sometimes to end by being expelled without having occasioned any serious disturbance. Most frequently, however, the urine, escaping with difficulty