147 GEOGRAPHICAL DISTRIBUTION OF STONE. earthy phosphates, and yet will never have a stone as long as the mucous membrane of the urinary tract remains free from inflammation. On this point Ultzmann1 does not agree with Thompson, hut holds that extreme phosphaturia is a factor in phosphatic stone formation. While this may be true in those occasional cases of alkaline stone which contain no ammonia (the pure phosphate-of-lime and carbonate-of-lime stones), it certainly does mot hold good for ordinary phosphatic stones—triple-phosphate and fusi- ble calculus—the only true secondary stones. In the formation of these latter, inflammation of the mucous membrane of the urinary tract has always been an etiological factor; and it makes no difference whether the urine has been customarily acid or alkaline, such an inflammation with obstruction to the free escape of urine is efficient to produce an ordinary phosphatic stone. Other individuals again, at intervals, pass red sand of crystallized uric acid with great freedom, but do not on that account alone necessarily get stone in the bladder. The element most essential for stone structure is the skeleton of the stone—■ not so much the solid as the soft part—the colloids, the glue, by which the solid elements are collected and fixed. Geographical Distribution of Stone. It is well known that stone occurs much more frequently in certain dis- tricts than in others, but a satisfactory explanation of this fact has not yet been given. The use of hard water for drinking does not explain the matter. Agnew2 says that in certain valleys in Lancaster County, Pennsylvania, of limestone formation, the water is very hard, being strongly impregnated with lime, and yet calculus is uncommon; and he joins former writers in the very apposite reflection that it is difficult to understand how calculi—most of which are composed of uric acid—could be formed out of lime. Civiale, whose statistical researches were very thorough, has written:3— Dr. Warren, of Boston, lias recently told me tliat stone is very rare in Massachusetts, and is almost unknown in those localities where granite rock abounds, while it is found occasionally at other points where the soil is calcareous; but this alleged influence of the nature of the soil upon the production of the calculous disorder is an hypothesis only admitted in order to explain facts, the true cause of which is not evident. Several of the localities from which I have received statistical documents possess the granite formation, but in spite of this, calculus is far from being a rare disorder. Again, speaking of the stone cases reported from the department of Var, in France, he says:— The malady seems to be equally divided among all classes of society ; the nature of the soil, which is of flint and granite on the coast, and calcareous in the interior, does not appear to make any sensible difference in the distribution of cases. Cadge,4 of Norwich, England, on the other hand, ascribes the great fre- quency of calculous (uric-acid) disorder in that district to the hardness of the water, and Prout shares his opinion. Reginald Harrison5 tries to establish a connection on the ground that hard waters interfere with digestion, and in this way modify the conditions of the solids and colloids in the urine. He mentions the frequency of stone in the young among the poor about Nor- 1 Op. cit., S. 30. 2 Principles and Practice of Surgery, vol. ii. p. 631. 3 Traits de l’Affection Calculeuse, p. 588. Paris, 1838. 4 Brit. Med. Journal, vol. ii. pp. 207-212. 1874. * Lectures on tbe Surgical Disorders of the Urinary Organs, 2d ed., p. 245. 1880.