582 INJURIES AND DISEASES OP THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. unfit for work. At times the enlargement of the veins is enormous, as they may pass below the testicle and reach half way down the patient’s thigh. Anatomy op.Varicocele.—Three sets of veins spring from the testicle: one from the rete and tubuli, another from the vascular layer of the tunica albuginea, and a third from the lower extremity of the vas deferens. Two of these quit the back of the testis ; one at its anterior and upper part, and a second at its centre ; and these, after passing on from two to three inches, become united into one. The other set accompanies the vas deferens, and there is also a large vein just above the testis, which crosses to join the three main columns. Mr. Curling analyzed 5639 cases of army recruits rejected for varicocele, and found that 344 suffered from varicocele on the right side, 4881 from varicocele on the left side, and 414 from double varicocele. One reason commonly given for the prevalence of varicocele on the left side, is that the left vein, from its long course from the testicle to open into the left renal vein, has a heavy column of blood to support, and that it enters at right anodes to that vein and to its current of blood. Again, the left testicle is heavier, and hangs lower than the right. Mr. Curling says that cases of vari- cocele are often associated with varicose veins of the lower extremities, or else- where. In the cases which I have examined I have very rarely found the combination mentioned, and, when it does exist, the varicocele is very large;, it is to be noted, too, that varicose veins of the extremities are found in the middle-aged or old, whereas varicocele is commonly met with soon after the advent of puberty. The veins on both sides are pressed upon at the inguinal canals by the action of the abdominal muscles, whenever any violent muscular exertion is made, or when the patient coughs violently. The left vein is also pressed upon by a loaded colon. The right spermatic vein runs a shorter course than the left, as it opens into the inferior vena cava, entering the vessel in the direction of the circulation. Fig. 1369. These various reasons are not satisfactory. Mr. Pearce Gould holds that varicocele is due, not to the yielding of the veins to internal pressure, but to venous hypertrophies ; that the developmental stimulus of puberty is transferred from the testicle to the veins. The American Journal of Medical Sciences, for July, 1856, contains an interesting communication by Dr. J. H. Brinton, of Philadelphia, demonstrating the existence of a valve at the termination of the right sper- matic vein in the inferior vena cava, which acts as a most efficient safeguard against varicocele on the right side. He fully explains and illustrates the dissection necessary to display the valve. It is just possible that the right inguinal canal is more capacious than the left, and that the right spermatic veins are less pressed upon in consequence. Prunaire, as the result of twelve dissections, says that the right spermatic vein generally has a pair of valves at its opening into the vena cava ; the left spermatic vein had a pair of valves at its opening into the renal vein in eight of the twelve instances; in the other four the valves were wanting, but were found three centimetres lower down. Another pair was found at the internal ring. Several existed between this point and the testicle on each side, so that in the course of the vein there were from six to eight pairs of valves.1 Iiivington2 verified these Dissection of vena cava, and of emulgent and spermatic veins, showing right spermatic valve. (After Brinton.) 1 These de Strasbourg, 1851 (quoted by Sistacli). 2 Curling, op. cit.