ACUTE INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTION. 49 limited to the neck, more commonly perhaps unite through a considerable space the two layers of the intussusception, and are very rarely confined to the apex, deducibility may he further interfered with by swelling, bend- ing, or twisting of the intussusceptum, or by the pressure of a polypus. Vo marked changes occur, as a rule, in the sheath of an intussusception, though ulceration from pressure, and even perforation, have occasionally been noted ; the intussusceptum is apt to become strangulated and gangrenous, and then, if there are firm adhesions at the neck, a spontaneous cure may follow the separation of the dead part. The causes of invagination have been experimentally investigated by Vothnagel, who describes two varieties, the spasmodic and the paralytic, the former being much the more common. The inference from his experi- ments, confirmed by the results of clinical observation, is that invagination follows irregular and disorderly contraction of the bowel, from whatever cause, the intussusception occurring at the expense of the normal gut, which is, as it were, drawn over the contracted part, and not being due, as is often taught, to the latter being forcibly driven into the former. Mr. Treves calls attention to the probable influence, in this process, of the longitudinal mus- cular fibres of the bowel, acting from the contracted portion as from a fixed point, and thus drawing the uncontracted portion over the other. Among the predisposing causes of invagination may he mentioned feeble health, diarrhoea, the presence of irritating or undigested food, intestinal polypi, strictures or tumors of the bowel, adhesions following injury, etc. Volvulus.—The term volvulus may be used to designate two separate con- ditions : one, and that much the commoner, being a twisting of the gut about an axis formed by the mesentery or mesocolon (more rarely twisting of the gut upon its own axis), and the other being the intertwining or knotting together of two separate portions of intestine. Volvulus is usually associated with, and indeed dependent upon, an abnormal state of the mesentery, which consists in its elongation and relaxation, allowing the bowel to hang in a long loop with its ends comparatively close together. This elongated state of the mesentery may be sometimes congenital, but is usually acquired, and in the case of volvulus of the sigmoid flexure is no doubt often traceable to habitual constipation, leading to distension of the gut with fecal matter, which by its weight drags upon the mesocolon. The sigmoid flexure is the most frequent seat of this form of volvulus, two-thirds of all cases, according to Mr. Treves, occurring in this locality, but it is also met with in the ascending colon and csecum, and in the small intestine. Twisting of the bowel upon its own axis appears to occur only in the csecum and ascending colon. In the second form of volvulus (intertwining of two separate loops of bowel), it is usually the sigmoid flexure and the small intestine that are involved, but occasionally two loops of the small intestine alone. Volvulus appears to he about four times as common in men as in women, and usually occurs in those past the middle period of life. Volvulus of the small intestine occurs at an earlier age than that of the large bowel. Volvulus soon becomes irreducible, through the formation of adhesions, and is followed by peritonitis, at first local, but soon spreading over the abdomen. It may also cause death by interference with the action of the heart and lungs from the upward pressure of the bowels, which become enormously distended. Internal strangulation, next to invagination, is the most frequent cause of acute intestinal obstruction apart from strangulated hernia, 31.5 per cent, of all cases, according to Dr. Brinton, and 26 per cent., according to Leich- tenstern, being of this character. Mr. Treves describes five varieties of inter- vol. vi.—4