THE CAESAREAN SECTION AND ITS SUBSTITUTES. 764 ticularly needed. Here the mortality is largely in excess, and it becomes important not only to use antiseptics, but to suture the uterus and thus avoid the escape of noxious fluids into the abdominal cavity. We are not, however, to rest satisfied with the past results of country Caesarean opera- tions, but should also use all precautionary methods, and all improved measures calculated to diminish the mortality still further. Next to promptness in operating, I believe the most important steps to be suturing the uterus and cleansing the abdominal cavity from blood and anmiotic fluid— measures the carrying out of which do not require any additional assistants. Modern Antiseptic Operation.—The patient being warmly dressed, is to be etherized in bed, precautions having been previously taken to have her bowels and bladder emptied ; and is then to be removed to the operating table, which, if possible, should be in a room prepared for the purpose under carbolic spray, the temperature being from 75° to 80° Fahr. After placing her as for ovariotomy, the abdomen is cleansed with ether, and then with a five-per- cent. solution of carbolic acid. The vagina, also, is disinfected with a two- per-cent. solution, or with a ^-sVffth solution of corrosive sublimate. The operator takes his position to the right of the patient, with his chief assist- ant opposite him. Five assistants are required, viz., one to give ether; one to attend to the sponges; a third to hand instruments; a fourth to manage the abdominal parietes, keep back the intestines, compress the abdomen against the uterus, and lift up the uterus with the index fingers inserted at the two ends of the uterine wound, as recommended by Dr. Ludwig Winckel, for the pur- pose of preventing the blood and anmiotic fluid from entering the abdominal cavity, etc.; and a fifth to manage the spraying apparatus, provided that its use be thought advisable, about which there is much difference of opinion. “ Listerine” may be substituted for the carbolic-acid spray, as much less dis- agreeable and safer to use. The incision is to be made in the linea alba, from the umbilicus to 1| inches from the symphysis pubis, and may be carried above and to the left of the navel in cases of dwarfs. Pincettes are to be used to compress any bleeding vessels in the abdominal wall, and the uterus is then to be incised longitudinally with a scalpel, to the extent of about 5 inches, care being taken to avoid the fundus and cervix ; or the wound may be made partially, and extended by a probe-pointed bistoury. The first assistant now hooks up the uterus with his fingers. If the waters have not been emptied, the membranes are torn, and the patient turned on her side, or the waters are evacuated per vaginam. If the foetal head presents at the wound, the operator should deliver it first; but if not, should seize the feet, turn, and deliver. The foetus should be carefully attended to if asphyxiated, until it breathes satisfactorily. The woman should receive a hypodermic injection of ergotine, and, when the placenta separates, the surgeon should remove it, cleanse out the clots, and mop out the uterine cavity with carbo- lized sponges. If there is hemorrhage, he should swab the uterus with vine- gar, tincture of iodine, or alcohol, and, in extreme cases, with a solution of the perchloride or persulphate of iron. If the placenta is in the line of the incision, it will be necessary to peel it off on one side, and in some cases to tear through it in order to make a hurried delivery. Pincettes may be tem- porarily required to arrest the bleeding from the edges of the uterine wound, and vessels may also require ligation. Esmarch’s elastic tubing may be used to constrict the cervix before opening the uterus, or the whole organ may he turned out and the cervix grasped by the hand of an assistant, and held until contraction has taken place. If the cervix uteri has not been dilated before the operation, a utero-vaginal drainage-tube should be inserted. The uterine wound is next to be closed with deep-seated and superficial,