615 ORCHITIS. elasticity as here ancl there the tunica albuginea is thickened in patches. These appearances and the presence of a hydrocele are very characteristic of the disease. The skin of the scrotum is in no way altered. The distinction between the epididymis and testis is eventually lost, the former being probably battened out on the latter. Testicular sensation is diminished, and the patient allows the surgeon to handle the swelling roughly and to make hrm pressure without complaining. The cord can be felt dis- tinctly above : it is not enlarged, nor is it tender when squeezed; occasionally, however, an inhltration of the vas deferens will cause it to be uniformly enlarged. When the testicle is of a certain size the patient supports it, as its weight causes a dull aching pain which travels up the cord to the loins, and extends down the inner side of the thigh. In syphilitic sarcocele, both testicles may be unequally enlarged ; if skilfully treated, as a rule the swell- ing subsides, but relapses are common. M. Reclus met with one case of syphilitic sarcocele in thirty-seven adults suffering from syphilis, and it is said that it occurs in one-third of the infants suffering from constitutional syphilis. In most cases no reason for the onset of the disease can be assigned, but Rieord holds that a testicle which has been attacked by acute or chronic inhammation is more liable to suffer change than one which has not been inbamed or injured. The enlargement of the testicle is accompanied as a rule by no constitutional disturbance, but other symptoms of constitutional syphilis may be present. When pus forms in the testicle it gives rise to local pain, and, being conhned by the thick tunica albuginea, if not evacuated will cause disorganization of the gland. If the disease be allowed to run its course, the skin becomes adherent to the other coverings of the testis, inbamed, and purple, and, hnally bursting, allows the seminal tubules to project and form a hernia testis. Treatment.—Cases of syphilitic orchitis fortunately respond readily to specibc treatment. If the orchitis occurs at a comparatively early stage of syphilis, and the patient has neglected to take mercury, this drug must be administered by the mouth or by inunction. In the more advanced cases, iodide of potassium is to be given in moderate or large doses, or a mixed treatment, employing protiodide of mercury pills, may be adopted. Syphilitic Epididymitis.—The surgeon must bear in mind that, although syphilitic deposits are generally found in the substance of the testicle, yet they may be present in the epididymis. A inan, aged about forty, consulted me at King’s College Hospital, for hard lumps connected with the left epididymis. On examination I found several small, hard de- posits in the left, and also some smaller ones in the right epididymis, which had escaped his notice. He had had primary and secondary syphilis several years before. The situation of the swellings suggested that the deposits might be tuberculous, but the his- tory of the case, the smallness of the hard nodules, and the healthy appearance of the patient, rendered it probable that they were due to tertiary syphilis ; they became absorbed after a steady course of anti-syphilitic remedies. I prefer the term “ syphilitic epididymitis,” applied to this condition by M. Dron,1 to that of secondary epididymitis, chosen by M. Fournier. The deposits usher in the tertiary stage of syphilis, but have been met with in the secondary stage as early as three and a half months after the onset of the disease. Syphilitic epididymitis is most frequent in the earlier years of infection, and becomes rare after the disease has lasted four years. One or more small hard lumps as big as peas or hazelnuts, which are indolent and painless, and often escape notice for some time, are to be felt in the epididy- 1 Arch. Gen. de M6d., 6e serie, t. ii. 1863.