1005 CLUB-FOOT. infants born before the full period of gestation is completed, and in those whose period of birth has been normal, but in whom, from prolonged labor or other causes, the performance of the processes of respiration and circu- lation has been delayed. The contraction of the muscles excited in such cases is most probably dependent upon reflex irritation of the motor nerves through the sensory or sympathetic systems, and not upon lesion of the nerve-centres; that the stimulus is reflex, is beyond doubt in the conditions first named, such as teething, etc., in which local irritation is present, whilst in the case of infants prematurely born, the irritation of the nerves is to be accounted for by tlie demand made upon tissues not yet perfected, to fulfil the functions which are necessary for a separate existence. When spastic contraction affects the muscles of the leg and foot, de- formity is very sure to occur, the progressive formation of which will have to be considered when describing the different varieties of club-foot. It must be remarked that deformity of the foot is not the only distortion that arises from this tonic muscular spasm, the result of nerve irritation; any part of the body liable to the same influence may become distorted, but for convenience of description this fact may be disregarded for the present, and attention may be directed merely to the condition of foot-distortion. Accom- panying the local muscular disturbance there is not unfrequently present a defective condition of the intellect; children who are subjects of this affection are nearly always slow in learning to talk, although they may readily under- stand what is said to them; they are dull and stupid, and in the more severe cases they may be semi-idiotic. The other state of muscular degeneration which has been referred to as one of the chief causes of nou-congenital deformity of the foot, is of quite a different character from that just described. The muscles are to a greater or less degree wasted, and their tissue is softened ; their contractile power is diminished or altogether lost, and they consequently either act feebly, or fail entirely to respond to the nervous stimulus. This affection of the muscles re- sults from a lesion of the nerve-centres, that somewhat obscure affection which attacks children at about the age of from one to three years, and which is com- monly known as infantile paralysis. The clinical history of this disease is well known: that it is often insidious in its onset, being ushered in by no premonitory symptoms ; or again that slight feverishness may precede the attack ; or that it may be the sequel of scarlet fever, measles, whooping- cough, or other exhausting disease. Paralysis more or less complete of the muscles of the extremities, the onset of which is remarkable for the suddenness of its appearance, is the chief characteristic of this disease. The attack is usually limited to one side of the body—the leg, and it may be also the arm on the same side, being affected; the muscles of both legs may however be paralyzed, or the leg on one side and the upper extremity on the other may be simultaneously attacked. The paralysis varies greatly in degree, from a slight loss of muscular power, which passes by unnoticed, to complete loss of muscular power; sensation is not impaired, the lesion being limited to the motor nervous system. There is much difference in reference to the liability of the separate muscles to become influenced by the disease; all the muscles of the leg may be affected, or the paralysis may affect only single muscles or groups of muscles; and even when the attack is general in its effects, the degree of paralysis is nearly always greater in some muscles than in others, those which especially suffer being the extensors of the toes (flexors of the foot) and the tibialis anticus. The seat of mischief in this disease is central, and consists, as far as we are acquainted with the nature of the malady, in a lesion of the motor centres of the spinal cord; but we are not in possession of evidence to account for the fact that the motor centres are affected in such a