372 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE BLADDER AND PROSTATE. distress, no interference will be necessary. The clot eventually becomes dis- integrated by the urine, and is then carried off without doing further harm. Prostatitis and Prostatic Abscess. Of all the complex structures which together constitute the genito-urinary tract', from the kidneys downwards, the prostate gland may be regarded as least liable to attacks of acute inflammation; and in this respect it seems to serve a useful purpose, in acting as a check against the extension of an inflammation from the much-exposed and susceptible urethra below, to the more vital organs above. Structural differences thus play an important though not sufficiently appreciated part, in limiting the progress of a variety of pathological actions, which would otherwise, by continuity, spread almost unrestrained. Acute Prostatitis.—The term acute prostatitis includes two varieties, pre- senting distinct pathological features, each disposed to pursue a tolerably definite course, and each determined by different circumstances. The one is an acute, follicular prostatitis ; the other a general, or parenchymatous, inflam- mation of the gland. Acute follicular prostatitis is not uncommon. It is most frequently seen as a complication of gonorrhoea. A person suffering from the latter affection suddenly finds the discharge either diminished in quantity, or altered in cha- racter, and this is followed by a sense of weight or uneasiness in the peri- neum. On examination, the gland is found to be hot, tender, and swollen. Micturition becomes frequent or impeded, in accordance with the extent to which the bladder structurally sympathizes, or the swollen prostate obstructs. In some instances there is complete retention. In these cases it will be found that the inflammation is almost entirely confined to the follicles of the gland. These may suppurate individually, or limited abscesses may form by the fusion of two or more of the obstructed follicles. “ There is never,” as Bum- stead1 remarks, “ at the outset, one abscess of considerable size. Such occurs only by the coalescence of a number of small ones situated in the follicles. Meanwhile the muscular tissue which constitutes so large a proportion of the prostate is unaffected, except that it is in a constant state of contraction, thereby inducing urethral and rectal tenesmus.” The follicular is the simple form of acute prostatitis. Though painful and distressing whilst it lasts, the symptoms are not usually protracted, and the prognosis is favorable. Reco- very most frequently follows by resolution, suppuration being the exception and not the rule. When suppuration does take place under these circum- stances, it is to be inferred rather than demonstrated, for rigors are often absent, and the most careful examination with the finger in the rectum fails to discover fluctuation, though an escape of pus by the urethra may almost immediately follow the introduction of a catheter, rendered necessary for the purpose either of completing the examination or of relieving retention. The other form of prostatitis—acute parenchymatous or general prostatitis— is a much more serious disorder. The whole gland within the capsule seems to be at one and the same time invaded by inflammatory action. Suppu- ration usually rapidly supervenes, and unless treatment be' prompt and deci- sive on the first appearance of fluctuation, as revealed by rectal examination, the most serious results, both to structure and life, are likely to follow. This form of prostatitis is rare. I can find no specimen of the kind 1 Treatise on Venereal Diseases, 4th ed., p. 170.