687 TEARS OF THE PERINEUM. 1 American Journal of Obstetrics, January, 1884. cerned; Dr. Thomas, however, advises a straight darning needle, while many prefer long, flat, curved needles; these may be threaded with silk, and to this the permanent suture—silver wire, silkworm-gut, or catgut—-may be attached, and thus drawn through the tissues. If stitches are used internally also, it is better to have a shorter needle, one curved near its point. As a rule, large needles are to be rejected from the fact that they inflict a wound which may give rise to oozing of blood, or even to the occurrence of a throm- bus ; the smaller the wound made, the better, and for a like reason a conical needle is usually to be preferred to one with cutting edges, or even to a flat needle. The patient lies in the dorso-sacral position, with her hips near the edge of the bed ; the vagina is washed out and the wounded surface well cleansed with the disinfectant solution, and in a similar solution the sponges also are thoroughly washed; the operator takes like precautions as to his hands and instruments, a carbolized solution being used for this purpose, and all care being taken to make the operation completely aseptic. A sponge is placed in the vagina above the rent so as to absorb the discharge from the uterus, and thus prevent its hiding or obscuring the field of operation ; the propriety of using an anaesthetic will be decided by the patient’s condition, and by the length and severity of the operation, but in no case should there be an ap- proximation to complete anaesthesia, lest consequent uterine relaxation should cause dangerous hemorrhage. If it be necessary, any loose shreds of tissue are cut off from the wound, and then, the index finger of the left hand being in the rectum, the needle, armed as already directed, is made to penetrate the skin near the angle of the wound, in partial rupture, half an inch from its margin, and is carried through the tissue intervening between the rectum and the vagina, guided by the finger in the former, and made to emerge at a corresponding distance from the margin of the wound on the opposite side; if difficult or impossible to pass the entire distance with the needle at once, it may be drawn out in the middle of the furrow, and reintroduced. The silver wire is now looped on the silk, and made to follow its course; the two ends of the wire are loosely twisted or tied, and then one or more additional sutures are passed, as may be thought necessary, to secure apposition of the entire torn surfaces. Finally, the wires are twisted, or secured by perforated shot. Care must be taken to prevent such constriction of the tissues that the sutures will cut out. If the material for sutures be silk-thread, silkworm-gut, or horse-hair, the ends of the suture are tied ; care must be taken in all cases that the torn surfaces are brought in close and accurate contact, no clots of blood inter- vening, and that inversion or eversion of any part of the margins is prevented. Superficial sutures are rarely, if ever, necessary. If vaginal or rectal sutures are used, these should be introduced first, and they should be fastened before the external sutures. If the laceration is complete, and if only external sutures are used, the first and second sutures, or more, will, as introduced, appear in the deepest part of the rent, crossing near the rectal surface. Dr. Alloway1 advises using only one suture in incomplete rupture. He uses Emmet’s straight perineum-needle, and a silk suture; the needle is en- tered on the left side of the tear, half an inch from its margin, and near the upper part of the rent, or that which was first torn ; “ two fingers of the left hand in the rectum press up the rectal wall and recto-vaginal cellular tissue, so that the needle can be rapidly, though steadily, made to glide beneath this tissue and over the rectum, hugging the latter as closely as possible;” and the needle passes out at a point on the opposite, or right side, correspond-