1147 HISTORY OF SURGERY. what could he thus derived. An examination of the ingenious and methodi- cal application of bandages to the body and limbs of those who were embalmed in the most elaborate and costly manner, furnishes ample evidence that the greatest possible skill and dexterity were attained in this art by the physicians or embalmers in the ancient days of Egypt. No surgeon of the present day can excel, and few can equal, the skill in artistic bandaging to be seen in the liner specimens of Egyptian mummies still preserved in modern museums. Aside from many wise sanitary laws, and some allusions to the existence of certain diseases, the writings of the Egyptians, Hebrews, Chinese, and even the Grecians, previous to the time of Hippocrates, are utterly barren in facts which possess any interest to the surgeon. W e are informed by Herodotus1 that the healing art in Egypt was sub- divided into numerous specialties in his day, much as it is now becoming in our great modern cities. He says, “Here, each physician applies himself to one disease only, and not more. All places abound in physicians; some for the eyes, others for the head, others for the teeth, others for the parts about the belly, and others for internal diseases.” It is needless in this place to enter npon a serious inquiry into the probable surgical knowledge and alleged skill of Asclepios or AEscnlapius. It is reason- able to infer that a real personage bearing this name once existed, that he possessed extraordinary skill in the art of healing, that he transmitted his knowledge to his posterity, that the family became notorious, and that, the original master was in time deified and worshipped in temples ; that the attendants of these temples combined the offices of the priest and physician— Priest-Physicians—and that with all their craft and quackery there were some real and useful facts obtained, and valuable methods devised, which are very creditable to so remote and crude an age. The worship of HCsculapius dates back about fifty years before the destruc- tion of Troy, which event occurred nearly twelve hundred years anterior to the birth of Christ. There are several very interesting allusions to the surgical art in the Homeric poems, which indicate no mean knowledge of the art of extracting barbed arrows by incision, the treatment of wounds, the arrest of hemorrhage, etc. It will be remembered that Homer flourished in the ninth century before the Christian era. Machaon and Podalirius, the sons of HEscnlapius, were both surgeons, and imbibed the learning and skill of their renowned father, who was claimed to have been the pupil of the mythical Chiron. “ Of two great surgeons, Podalirius stands This hour surrounded by the Trojan bands, And great Machaon wounded in his tent Now wants the succour which so oft he lent.” The extraction of “ deadly darts” and “ stinging arrow's” by incision is thus alluded to :— “ Patroclus cut the forky steel away, And in his hand a bitter root he pressed, The wound he washed and styptic juice infused, The closing flesh that instant ceased to glow, The wound to torture and the blood to flow.” Iliad, Book XL The skill and utility of the surgeon w'ere highly appreciated when Homer 1 Historiar. lib. ii. cap. 84.