767 GASTRO-HYSTEROTOMY, OR LAPARO-HYSTEROTOMY. lymph must be trusted, to a certain extent to complete the vault of the pocket. As a distended bladder will obliterate it, the organ must be kept empty by a catheter constantly worn. Dr. Frank has tested his method by delivering a woman who was hope- lessly burned at full term, and who evidently had but a few hours to live; the child was alive, but growing weaker, and its extraction per victs naturales was found impracticable; it had a pulse of 150. The child was saved, and the mother died in ten hours. At the autopsy no blood was found in the general peritoneal cavity. Many objections to this complicated operation will readily suggest them- selves, not the least being that the inclosed peritoneal pocket is peritoneum still, and liable to peritonitis which may extend ; and that, like the vagina, it offers a surface for the ready absorption of septic.matters. Drainage-tubes are also not entirely innocent, and Porro operations have done better on the whole without them. The catgut uterine suture is also quite objectionable, as its knots will not hold when kept moist. (3) Kehrer's Process.1—This method is not altogether new, as I will show presently: it is, however, in the main, original with Dr. F. A. Ivehrer, of • Heidelberg. It is claimed as an advantage of this operation, that the ute- rine muscle is incised at the spot where it is least inclined to cause the wound to gape by its contractions. After opening the abdomen in the usual way, the uterus is incised transversely in the anterior circumference of the internal os uteri, which, on an average, is a centimetre above the bottom of the vesico-uterine pouch.2 The tendency to gape is here very little, and it is further opposed in a powerful manner by the normal position of anteversion after delivery during the child-bed period. In favor of this position for the incision, the author urges, further, that in this situation the placenta is rarely met with, whilst the head usually lies there, and thus early breathing of the foetus is facilitated. lie recommends the adoption of a double suture: one deep seated, to unite the muscular wall, and one superficial, to secure coapta- tion of the peritoneal portion of the wound. The strictest antiseptic arrangements are to be employed before and during the operation; the interior of the uterus is to be thoroughly irrigated by a carbolic solution ancf wiped out with a carbolized sponge; the peritoneal cavity is also to be thoroughly cleansed. Dr. Ivehrer is opposed to the use of the abdomino-uterine drainage-tube, and recommends two small tubes to lie on either side of the vesico-uterine pouch, and a third, larger and longer, to pass over the uterus and into the Douglas pouch. Two operations have been performed after this method, both upon women diseased with malacosteon, and aged respectively 26 and 30, the first on September 15, and the second on November 13, 1881. The former recov- ered in thirty-five days, but the latter died in twenty-eight and a half hours. At the autopsy of the second, the margins of the uterine wound were found adherent, except at one point, where a triangular space was left uncovered by the peritoneum; over half a pint of sero-sanguinolent fluid was found in the abdominal cavity. ' This form of incision is described in Robert Wallace Johnson’s “New System of Midwifery,” 2d edition, 1786, page 308, in these words: “I would have the incision made through the uterus transversely, on its anterior side, as near the cervix as not to injure the bladder, avoiding as much as possible the division of the larger branches of the hypogastric arteries; and this 1 Archiv fur Gynakol., Bd. six. Heft 2, S. 180. 1882. 2 In Wiefel’s operation, referred to under “Uterine Sutures,” the uterus was incised trans- versely.