397 HEMATURIA. often in a pure stream at the conelusion of micturition. Hemorrhage, when it proceeds from the bladder, is almost invariably attended with considerable irritability as far as micturition is concerned, a circumstance which is toler- ably sure to lead to an exploration for stone being made. Such an explor- ation, when made carefully and at the same time thoroughly, is justifiable as often furnishing not only negative evidence, but positive information as to the cause on which the hemorrhage depends. It is hardly necessary to add that a single exploration ought to suffice, for, however valuable the information which the sound is capable of affording, it is not invariably obtained without some cost. Hence this examination should not be too hastily made, and every precaution should be taken to prevent any ill consequences arising therefrom. When a patient is suffering from hsematuria, the result of a villous growth, an ulcerating tumor, or a tubercular deposit, not only can the absence of a stone be ascertained, but often the growth, or a ragged surface, can be distinctly felt. When a villous growth 1ms been the cause, a portion has sometimes been brought away in the eye of the catheter used for the purpose of sound- ing, or has been subsequently passed with the urine. Where hemorrhage is due to any of the causes last mentioned, the ex- amination is almost invariably followed by a considerable increase in the quantity of blood discharged'; for this, both patient and practitioner should alike be prepared, and every care should be taken, by rest and the application of cold to the region of the bladder, to moderate the hemorrhage. Direct exploration of the bladder with the finger has been practised in cases in which there have been reasons for believing that the hemorrhage has proceeded from some undiscovered, abnormal condition of the viscus. In the female, this can be readily done by rapid dilatation of the urethra. In the male, such an exploration may be made by opening the membranous urethra in the median line. In the normal condition of the parts the interior of the bladder can in this way be reached, and the examination may be aided by bimanual manipulation, as practised by Volkmann. Sir Henry Thompson1 nas recently reported some cases illustrative of this method of examination, where hsematuria, having probably a vesical origin, was a prominent symp- tom. Vesical hemorrhage is sometimes met with in cases of enlarged prostate where there has been very great distension. If, in such a case, the whole of the urine be at once drawn off and pressure suddenly removed, passive hem- orrhage is apt to occur. In this way the bladder may become filled with clot, which not only causes great distress to the patient, but is exceedingly difficult to remove. To guard against this it is better to withdraw the urine gradually, and thus permit the distended organ somewhat to recover its tone before rendering it flaccid. Urethra.—Hemorrhage from the urethra is most frequently due to an acute gonorrhoea. It has been known to follow the forcible straightening of the penis of a person suffering from chordee. In young male children, it has been occasioned by the impaction of a calculus in the canal. Ulceration within the meatus of the urethra, most commonly of a syphilitic nature, may also give rise to this symptom. When heematuria has its source in the urethra, not only does the blood escape as an independent flow during micturition, but also at intervals apart from that act. In connection with the subject of hsematuria, it should be remarked that its association with injuries of the pelvis or of the perineum should lead to a most careful investigation with the catheter of the bladder and urethra. Fractured pelvis and ruptured urethra 1 On Digital Exploration of the Bladder through Incision of the Urethra from the Perineum. Lancet, May 6, 1882 ; On Tumors of the Bladder, etc. London, 1884.