INJURIES AND DISEASES OE THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. 578 hydrocele, and caused by the exertion of straining only, without any other injury, I laid the swelling freely open, using Listerian precautions, turned out a quantity of bloody fluid, blood-clots, and newly formed lymph, and discovered a very interesting patholo- gical condition, viz., a rent in the thickened tunica vaginalis, which, instead of being shiny and transparent-looking, as in health, was opaque like ground glass. The surface Fig. 1367. Spontaneous hsematocele from ruptured tunica vaginalis ; A, coverings of testis enormously thickened; B, rent Sn tunica vaginalis (C), which was thickened and opaque like ground glass ; D, normal testis covered by opaque tunica vaginalis. exposed by the rent of the membrane was reticulated, as is well shown in the sketch (Fig. 1367) which was drawn by Mr. Crookshank, who assisted me at the operation. A few bleeding vessels in the cut scrotum, which was an inch thick, were tied with fine catgut; the edges of the incision were brought together; and a large India-rubber drain- age tube was inserted, and was brought out at the lowest point. The man soon left the hospital convalescent. In a case operated on by Mr. Henry Smith, at King’s College Hospital, the hemato- cele followed immediately after the operation of tapping, which had been attended with hemorrhage. The tissues cut through to evacuate the fluid were two inches thick. In this case there was a good deal of inflammation of the scrotum, which was red, painful, and oedematous, and, if left, no doubt suppuration of the hmmatocele would have taken place. The testicle could not be discovered, although it was carefully sought for. A hsematocele may form in the tunica vaginalis of children after a blow, or from the wound of a vessel. If not evacuated, the blood sets up irritation, causes great inflammatory thickening of the part, and, after a few years, extreme difficulty of diagnosis, only to be cleared up by an incision which opens into a cavity and evacuates a quantity of decolorized coagula. M. Gosselin is of opinion that, owing to inflammation of the tunica vaginalis, which may he subacute and slight, false membranes form, supplied with bloodvessels which rupture and give rise to a hsematocele ; the exciting cause may be an orchitis, or a slight blow or squeeze. According to Sir James Paget, it may sometimes happen that lymph in the tunica vaginalis becom- ing vascular, and being submitted to even slight violence, its vessels may