824 OVARIAN AND UTERINE TUMORS. * Op. cit., p. 515. rhagic peritonitis, and in many of the milder forms of chronic septicaemia. Whatever be the cause of the hematocele, there is always a distinct, and sometimes a very considerable hemorrhage into the pe i x>neal cavity, or behind it; and the location of the resulting blood-collection determines the specific name ot the tumor. Thus it is retro-uterine, ante-uterine, or peri- uterine hematocele; the term hcemcitoma indicates a blood-tumor in the con- nective tissue of the pelvis. Syrnpt07ns.—The general and subjective symptoms of hematocele are: (1) Pain in the hypogastric region ; (2) Faintness and profound exhaustion ; (3) Metrorrhagia; (4) Uterine colic; (5) Coldness of the surface of the body; (6) General evidence of sudden loss of blood ; (7) Pressure on the rectum and bladder. Some of these symptoms—the menorrhagia for instance—may be quite wanting; the others are more or less distinctly marked, and in each case are somewhat variable. The crucial test, as Thomas1 has pointed out, lies in the combination of the symptoms of extreme loss of blood with those of pelvic pressure and of interference with the pelvic viscera. Physical Signs.—These vary in accordance with the period of the develop- ment of the disease. If a vaginal examination be made immediately after the attack, little or no change will be felt from the ordinary state of the pelvis. But within a few hours this is all changed. Row, especially if the effusion be retro-uterine, the uterus will be felt pushed upwards and forwards; and, behind it, a boggy softish mass, evidently containing fluid, smooth, painless on pressure, and obscurely fluctuating. In a day or two this is more circum- scribed, and much harder; rectal examination now confirms the surgeon’s previous impressions, and more clearly maps out the area affected; indeed, it is invaluable as an aid in diagnosis. If the blood is in Douglas’s pouch, there is a distinct tumor-like projec- tion into the vagina, varying, however, with the patient’s position until coagu- lation takes place. When the effusion occurs chiefly into the broad liga- ment, the signs are vaguer, but still the puffy tumor can be felt following the line of the ligament; and this, after the occurrence of severe collapse, is indicative of nothing but hannatocele. If the effusion be general—throughout the pelvis—the patient may sink from great loss of blood. After reaction, the usual sign of a general- ized boggy mass, which pits on pressure but becomes harder from day to day, will guide us towards a correct inference. In large effusions, abdominal palpation will snffice to feel the tumefaction, but cannot accurately map it out; conjoined palpation is more satisfactory. In the few recorded cases in which the outflow has been confined to* the anterior cul-de-sac, the uterus has been pushed toward the rectum, or retroverted. Differential Diagnosis.—Hematocele may readily be mistaken for (1) Extra- uterine pregnancy ; (2) Perimetritis, with abscess or severe effusion ; (3) Retroversion of the uterus; (4) Ovarian cyst, or fibroid on the posterior wall of the uterus ; (5) Retention of menses. In extra-uterine pregnancy, there is a gradual appearance and increase of the tumor: in hematocele the onset is always sudden. Menstruation is sup- pressed, and corroborative signs of pregnancy are present. In perimetritis with or without fluid accumulation, there is a distinct inflammatory history ; there is no sudden onset or menorrhagia. The tumefaction is lateral, not posterior to the womb ; it is tender to the touch and is hard at first, with increasing softening as time goes on. In hematocele the opposite is observed. In retroversion of the uterus, the sound will at once settle the question, unless pregnancy contra-indicate its use; and there will be no symptoms of loss of