LACERATIONS OF THE CERVIX UTERI I TRACHELOPLASTY. 681 ‘‘Truly there are a great number of lacerations of the cervix, small and great, unilateral or bilateral, which do not cause any symptom, and which are cured or persist after cicatrization without producing any serious derange- ment of health” (Schwartz). “It should be clearly understood that old lacerations of great depth, and in all directions, may exist without a single morbid symptom, and without involving any necessity for surgical inter- ference” (Thorburn). By Emmet’s carefully prepared and extended statistics it was found that more than 32 per cent, of fruitful women had laceration of the cervix. Dr. Munde makes the proportion less, only 25 per cent., and with a wise conservatism adds, “I esteem but a comparatively small propor- tion of all the cases of sufficient pathological importance to merit recognition as factors in the production of uterine disease.” “The simple existence of a fissure in the cervix does not justify an operation for its closure, nor should the operation ever be resorted to except for the relief of symptoms which remain after the accepted treatment has been employed without apparent benefit” (Emmet). Dr. Emmet, however, holds that when reflex symptoms exist, with en- largement of the uterus after all cellulitis has disappeared, and when the woman suffers from neuralgia or persistent anaemia, an operation is necessary, notwithstanding that the parts may have healed completely; and he believes that the thorough removal of the cicatricial tissue from the angles of the tear is absolutely necessary for success. Thorburn has wisely said that in order to justify an operation, the neuralgia referred to by Emmet, or nervous phe- nomena of severe character, should “be traced by exclusion to nothing else than uterine origin, and to the possible involvement of uterine nerves in the cicatricial tissue of the cervix. In this case, and in this alone, are we war- ranted in operating on a laceration covered with healthy tissue, and unaccom- panied by great hypertrophic distortion of the cervix.” Preparatory Treatment.—Copious hot-water vaginal injections are used once or twice a day, until tenderness in the vicinity of the uterus, as shown by vaginal touch, is removed. The uterus should be litred from the floor of the pelvis by a suitable pessary. Churchill’s tincture of iodine is applied to the cervix twice a week, and, if the surfaces of the exposed cervical mucous membrane have become covered with granulations which bleed readily, an application may be made weekly of subsulphate of iron or Monsel’s salt. Cystic degeneration of the mucous follicles is relieved by puncturing the cysts with a small lance-shaped knife, and then freely applying iodine. Operation.—It is usual to have the patient anaesthetized, though the ope- ration is not, as a rule, very painful; she is placed in the dorsal position with her hips brought so as to project somewhat over the end of the table; some operators prefer the lateral position. After an antiseptic injection into the vagina, the perineum is retracted by a Sims’s or a Simon’s speculum, the cervix is exposed, and the anterior lip is seized with tenaculum forceps; the cervix is now drawn gently toward or to the vulva. Hext a straight needle threaded with strong silk is passed1 through the median line of the anterior lip, near its margin, and then similarly through the posterior lip; the silk is caught with a tenaculum where it crosses from the anterior to the posterior lip (Fig. 1379), and is drawn down and cut; the two ends of the thread passing through each lip are then tied together, and thus is secured perfect control, not only of the cervix, but also of each flap, and ready exposure of 1 This is the method of Dr. Reeves Jackson, of Chicago, and certainly it is much more con- venient than the use of a double tenaculum with diverging branches, or of two teuacula.