274 URINARY CALCULUS. away. This sheet must be often changed as it becomes moistened with urine, and the buttocks and perineum of the patient should be washed several times a day with warm water and alcohol, and afterwards lightly anointed with vaseline, to keep the skin in good order, particularly if the patient be fat and debilitated, and if the urine be ammoniacal. The patient may turn if he pleases, but he usually prefers to lie upon his back. Although surgeons differ as to the advisability of tying in a catheter, the weight of authority is largely against it. It is difficult to see in what way it could be of any benefit in an ordinary case. It could not possibly prevent contact of urine with the cut surface, and it could hardly fail to prove a source of uneasiness, even if it did not set up local irritation. The urine at first, flows away freely through the cut. Then, as inflam- matory swelling comes on. upon the second or third day, most or all of it may pass through the urethra; but when suppuration commences and the turgescence of the tissues subsides, the urine again escapes through the peri- neum, at first involuntarily, then, as the neck of the bladder recovers its retentive power, at the patient’s will, finally resuming its natural channel as the wound in the perineum closes. This takes a varying period. Habitually more prompt in children (averag- ing perhaps ten days), and in persons in good health, it becomes longer with advancing age and in cases of debility. Three weeks is a fair time to count as a very moderate interval for repair to perfect itself in an ordinary case. Six weeks often pass before the wound is healed, and the time may extend itself to months in unfavorable cases. It is more surgical in principle to allow the wound to heal by granulation, and to favor drainage, thus opposing any tendency toward infiltration, than to make any attempt to secure quick union. Yet primary union has been not only sought for but obtained. Professor Dudley,1 of Kentucky, recorded primary union after perineal lithotomy 8 times in 135 cases. Mr. Crichton,2 of Scotland, made even a better record, claiming success 23 times in 200 operations, and Bouisson,3 of France, collected some interesting examples, and advocated the attempt to secure quick union in certain cases, particularly when the stone was small, and when the median operation had been employed. Tolet, Bouclou, and Ollivier have reported cases of quick union. It can hardly be called immediate, for although the urine escapes by the meatus from the first, yet the wound is not entirely healed for several—often as many as six—days. Crichton applied a simple wet compress to the wound and tied the legs together, using a warm sitz-bath in case of retention, and con- fining his attempts at quick union to patients in flourishing health and cases of small calculi. These attempts at. quick union are of doubtful advantage, the few days that may be saved not making up for the increased risk of urinary infiltration. Even with the wound open, a child sometimes will get up and play about within a day or two, delighted to he rid of his former tormenting pain. An adult also often gets up after the bladder has resumed its retentive power, but before the perineal wound has healed. In cases of feeble persons, such hasty movements may entail subsequent perineal fistula, but in healthy individuals they usually do not. A little opium may be required for the first day or two, to ease pain, if it be great, and some quinine and an alkaline diuretic 1 Translvania Journal of Medicine and the Associated Sciences, vol. ix. p. 288. 1836. 2 British and Foreign Med.-Chir. Review, July, 1854. 3 De la reunion immediate a la suite de U operation de la taille. Graz. Med. de Paris, 1867, pp. 704 et seq.