955 OSTEOMALACIA AND FRAGILITAS OSSIUM. the process is advancing. Movement and pressure make them more acute. Before the appearance of the deformities due to breaking or bending, they are almost always attributed to rheumatism, which they simulate. The seat of pain varies, naturally, according to the bones affected. In puerperal osteomalacia, that which is observed in women who have borne children, gen- erally in large number, the pains almost always begin in the pelvis. One or both of the ischiatic tuberosities become painful; thence the pain travels to the symphysis, and to the spine of the ischium, then to the other bones of the pelvis, the sacrum, and the lower lumbar vertebras. Very often the coxo-femoral joints become painful; then motion of the thighs is difficult; walking is impeded, if it is still possible; in women, inability to abduct the thighs is characteristic. (Volkmann.) The shoulders are attacked in turn, and finally the limbs, the thorax, and the head share in the general affection. Locomotion, from being painful, becomes impossible; sitting down soon be- comes too much for the strength of the patients, who, in order to avoid the pain caused by movement of the joints and bones, and by fatigue, condemn themselves to as complete immobility as possible. Finally, they are confined to bed, where they enjoy only comparative repose. The sensitiveness of the ischia, and of the sacral and lumbar vertebrae, does not permit them to remain long seated or lying upon the back; they lie sometimes on one side, some- times on the other, finding no position comfortable. At the end they are seen to assume the most strange positions. Doubled up upon themselves, reduced in length by the shortening of the spinal column and limbs, they come to be only shapeless and whining masses of flesh. The poor creatures suffer continuously, and cannot move to supply any need without the help of others, and without risk of breaking some of their bones. I have described above the deformities of the skeleton. “It has been said that the pains subside from the moment when the curvatures occur, but this phenomenon is far from being constant.” (Nelaton.) Besides, when the pains which depend upon progressive osteomyelitis or fracture disappear, the deformities of the trunk and limbs are the cause of much discomfort and suffering, dependent upon functional disturbances of the viscera—the lungs, heart, stomach, digestive canal, etc. M. Gusserow mentions, as character- istic of the disease, the sulky and morose physiognomy of women. It will be admitted that they have little cause to be smiling. As an evidence of the nervous irritability of these patients, Lobstein mentions a woman whom it put in a bad humor to see-a cambric handkerchief waved before her, while at the same time it brought on a fit of pains in all her limbs. In non-puerperal cases, osteomalacia usually starts in the vertebral column and the thorax, according to Volkmann. The bones of the pelvis may some- times remain entirely free, or at least so little changed that they are not de- formed. The disease shows a peculiar disposition to extend to the greater part of the skeleton, to the limbs, and even to the cranium. It has been said that the cranium is rarely affected. In the majority of recent observations the walls of this cavity have been found much thickened, even in the osteitis deformans of Paget. (See pp. 963, 964.) The puerperal form is relatively more frequently limited to the pelvis and to the lower segment of the verte- bral column. Consequently, the progressive non-puerperal form may, in a general way, be considered the more grave. (Volkmann.) This may be only because women do not live long enough to go through the entire evolu- tion of the disease. A large number succumb to the complications of preg- nancy and child-birth, or to the operative measures undertaken to deliver them at the time of parturition. Nevertheless, the cases in which delivery has been accomplished, either by the efforts of nature alone or by the assist- ance of art, are not extraordinarily rare. Osteomalacia demands Caesarean