INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE FEMALE GENITALS. 674 other side, observing the changes in the percussion sound in these varying postures. Percussion does not enable the surgeon to distinguish between a uterine and an ovarian tumor, but it does between either of these and ascites. So too, it prevents confounding a tympanitic abdomen with one distended by ascitic fluid or by a new growth ; it enables the surgeon to “ map out” the position of a tumor, to determine in some measure its relations with adjacent parts, and to recognize a coil of intestine lying between it and the abdominal wall; it prevents mistaking physometra for hsematometra. Dilatation of tiie Cervical Canal.-—This may be indicated for the direct examination of the uterine cavity with the finger, or with the curette or curette-forceps, or for the removal of an intra-uterine growth. The means for dilating are the different tents, made of sponge, sea-tangle, gentian, or tupelo; or a series of solid metal or hard-rubber dilators, or metal dilators composed of two or more blades, which are introduced closed and then sepa- rated from each other; Eliinger’s, and its various imitations and modifi- cations, have two blades, Sims’s has three, as has Scanzoni’s, and cpiite recently Molesworth has devised an ingenious dilator with four blades. Tupelo tents are generally preferred to others; some fatal results from those of sponge suggest hesitancy in resorting to them, and great caution in their use. Antiseptic precautions must be used, no matter what the dilating means, but especially in the employment of tents. The os uteri, if a tent is to be introduced, is exposed by a Simon or Sims speculum, the cervix is caught by a tenaculum, and the tent—one of appro- priate size and form having been provided, and an antiseptic having been first put upon its external surface—is carried by the forceps or by a stylet devised for the purpose, into the os, and is pressed into the cervical canal. If the tent be of sponge, simply holding it in place for a few minutes will secure its reten- tion ; but- if it be of tupelo or of sea-tangle, a cotton tampon must be placed in the vagina and pressed against the os to prevent its expulsion. A sponge tent is completely expanded in a few hours, while a sea-tangle tent requires fifteen or twenty hours. If the dilatation is insufficient for exploratory or operative purposes, the first tent is removed, and, after thoroughly cleansing the surfaces with which it has been in contact with an antiseptic solution, a larger one is put in its place ; but the immediate repetition of these dilating means is if possible to be avoided. If the dilatation is sufficient for the introduction of the finger, this is done as follows: The patient occupies the dorsal position, and has her lower limbs moderately flexed; the surgeon places one of his hands upon her abdomen, over the fundus of the uterus, while the index finger of the other hand passes into the vagina, and then into the os uteri, and now the external hand presses the uterus down upon the internal finger—the method being compared to pressing a thimble upon the finger—until the uterine cavity is entered, when the desired examination is made. Dr. Emmet advises wash- ing out the uterus with warm water after the examination, and the applica- tion of ChurchiH’s tincture of iodine, which not only7 is an excellent disinfect- ant but also stimulates uterine contraction. Hegar rejects dilatation both by7 tents and by Ellinger’s or similar instru- ments, his objection to the latter being that they dilate unequally, affecting only those parts of the cervix with which the blades are in contact; he uses hard-rubber dilators, cylindrical in general form, and conical at the end for moi’e ready introduction into the cervical canal. Before using them they are placed in a five-per-cent, solution of carbolic acid, and just previous to their introduction they are dipped in five-per-cent, or ten-per-cent, carbo- lized oil. The first dilator is replaced by a larger one in a short time, this