FUNCTIONAL DISORDERS OF THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. 659 examples of satyriasis, but it is more common during the period of the greatest activity of the sexual functions, and at the advent of puberty, when nerve storms are so apt to occur. Men suffering from hydrophobia may have vio- lent sexual desires with prolonged erection of the penis. Dogs attacked by rabies have also been observed to suffer in the same way. As a rule, an attack of satyriasis runs an acute course, and, unless induced by a poisonous dose of phosphorus or cantharides, is not fatal; when so caused, a post- mortem examination will reveal congestion of the genito-urinary tract, and of the cerebro-spinal apparatus. Idiots suffer from a chronic form of the complaint, and when moved to sexual indulgence are troublesome, and will take every means at their command to accomplish their desires. In conges- tive mania, at times, the sexual desires are unrestrainable. A man with a family, and of blameless life, will throw off' all decency, use bad language, openly consort with immoral women, and, unless deprived of his liberty, will commit some criminal offence. Old men, weak in mind and body, suf- fering from some brain irritation caused probably by atheromatous arteries, will suddenly develop an attack of satyriasis or lechery, and, becoming lost to all sense of shame, will seek to gratify their sexual appetite in public, on persons of the other sex, and even on children of tender years. Highly edu- cated men, with an hereditary tendency to insanity or epilepsy, leading a lazy, self-indulgent life, are those likely to be attacked, and, rushing from one extreme to the other, from being chaste become profligate. After repeated attacks of satyriasis a condition of stupor of the sexual sense may be developed. In a late stage of general paralysis of the insane, the patient has erotic impulses, to which the sexual organs refuse to respond. The administration of phosphorus or cantharides to a person predisposed to saty- riasis, may induce a most violent and dangerous attack. At the onset, mode- rate doses of alcohol and opium will produce sexual excitement, but eventu- ally they will induce impotency.1 A young woman of respectable family and well conducted, with the exception that she gave herself up unaccountably to the indulgence of her salacious temperament, died, and presented on post-mortem examination a hydatid cyst which occupied the right crus cerebri, the cerebellum, and the upper part of the spinal marrow, and which excavated the pons Varolii. If the sexual propensities be checked by a strong effort of the will during the hours of wakefulness, voluptuous dreams and images will haunt the pa- tient when asleep, and eventually the attack will culminate in an onset of frenzy, during which the demoniac, if unable to satisfy his sexual desires on one of the opposite sex, will ravish animals, and even dead bodies. He knows no restraining power, as he is lost to all sense of fear. Causes.—The most common predisposing cause of the complaint is a hereditary predisposition to insanity or epilepsy. Epileptics must be care- fully watched lest they criminally assault their companions. Any disturb- ance of the nervous system, or a local irritation of the penis or scrotum, such as phimosis and adherent prepuce, eczema, or prurigo, by causing a flow of blood to the part—or continence, by preventing the physiological dis- charge of the secretions—may start the complaint. The disease may also be induced by exciting the imagination by reading obscene books, by witnessing lewd performances, or by masturbation. Satyriasis is present sometimes in the early stage of priapism. The unfortunate victims of leprosy have been unjustly accused of erotic propensities, but Sir Erasmus Wilson says that they are innocent of the charge, although for their supposed lasciviousness they were called satyrs.2 1 Med. Times and Gazette, Feb. 15, 1862. s Lectures on Dermatology. London, 1871-3.