541 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE PENIS. and the edges of the incision are brought together with fine catgut or silk sutures. Fibroid Tumors of Penis.—Mr. Henry Smith drew my attention, a short time back, to the case of a middle-aged patient who had, on the dorsum of the penis, at its point of attachment to the pubes, a saddle-shaped deposit extending; rather less than an inch from before backwards, and the same from side to side:— It was in the substance of the penis, beneath its fibrous sheath, and permitted the fingers to be passed just under its lateral portions, but not under it either in front or behind. There was no distinct history of syphilis; the patient seemed in good health, was free from gout, and had a number of healthy children. On erection, the penis curved a little at its base, but connection was not prevented. The mass was hard, and felt like a small saddle of cartilage. In some cases the deposits are said to be multiple and to resemble ganglia; they cause a painful curvature of the penis on erection, and a difficulty in micturition when the corpus spongiosum is affected; the skin is not altered in any way, and glides freely over the deposit. The change probably is due to plastic effusion into the trabecular tissue of the penis, which prevents the equable distention of the cells when erection takes place. Van Buren, from cases observed by himself, says that the prognosis is favorable, as the indura- tion does not spread, and is not followed by degeneration or disorganization. Blisters, mercury, and iodide of potassium have been tried without effect in these cases; a constant current of electricity has been recommended. (lummy tumors remain stationary, resolve, or soften down,and respond to constitutional treatment. In one of Van Buren’s cases, the induration travelled from before backwards to the root of the penis, and the curvature of the penis when erect became less, rendering intercourse more satisfactory. In some cases there is a history of injury. Ricord says that the change is due to an old phlebitis, to a slight rupture of one of the cavernous bodies of the penis, or to constitu- tional syphilis. It has also been attributed by Sir P. Hewett to thrombosis occurring in a gouty subject. To whatever cause due, time is an important element in the treatment. The pathological museum at Vienna possesses a remarkable specimen of ossific deposit in the substance of a penis; these cases are very rare indeed. Elephantiasis of the penis is generally associated with elephantiasis of the scrotum, and in these cases the penis may attain to a large size ; in others it seems to he lost in the scrotal swelling, its place being marked by a de- pression like an umbilicus. In operations on elephantiasis scroti, the penis is to be preserved under any circumstances, but Sir Joseph Fayrer recom- mends that, as the skin is likely to be diseased, none shall be retained to cover the organ. Elephantiasis of the penis prevents sexual intercourse, but the ability is recovered after operation. The etiology and treatment of these cases are considered in another portion of this article. Warts or vegetations are often associated with gonorrhoea, and are found lining the prepuce, or in the furrow between it and the glans penis ; if not interfered with, they grow luxuriantly, spreading over the surface of the glans penis, and invading even the orifice of the urethra; they are attended with a foul discharge and cause phimosis. Small warts may be readily re- moved with scissors, the bleeding points being touched with solid nitrate of silver. In more formidable cases the patient should have an anaesthetic, or the warts may be frozen with ether-spray if the patient desire it, and may then be shaved off with a knife, the bleeding, which is free, being stopped by the actual cautery or the strong liquor ferri perchloridi. The growth, if preferred, may be removed by the galvanic ecraseur or by caustics, those in common use