STONE IN THE BLADDER. 189 been injected with water, however, I asked the patient to stand up while I drew off the fluid through a soft catheter. This he did, and as the last drops were coining away I recognized the gritty feel of a small stone against the soft catheter, and verified the fact after the bladder was empty by pushing the catheter back and forth several times. Lithotrity promptly relieved the patient. The Bigelow washing bottle and small tube would decide a ease like this o cj at once. Only two instruments are essential to discover a movable stone in the bladder—a searcher, and a washing bottle and metallic tube. In many instances, no especial form of instrument is necessary, and anything thrust into the bladder—a catheter, hard or soft, a common steel sound, or a lithotrite— strikes against the foreign body and reveals its presence even to the unskilled touch. Sometimes such instruments fail. A lithotrite is too heavy for deli- cate handling if the stone is small. A soft instrument cannot be directed over the various surfaces of the bladder. An instrument with a long curve has so wide a sweep that it cannot he manipulated at all except in a bladder full of water, and even then it is a physical impossibility to bring its tip into contact with the bas-fond, just behind an enlarged prostate, the very seat of election for small stones in old men. An instrument with a flat handle like that of the ordinary sound is not a good searcher, because it cannot be evenly and lightly rotated. A good searcher must be very light, composed of metal, and hollow, that urine may be withdrawn or water injected during the search without removing the instrument; it should have a slight bulb at its tip, and a cylindrical, corrugated handle, easy to grasp and to rotate. Probably the best instrument of this sort which has yet been devised, is Thompson’s searcher. Fig. 1199. Thompson’s searcher for vesical calculus. This is usually made of white metal, graduated in inches, and furnished with a movable collar for roughly measuring the diameter of the stone. The common size for the adult is about 15 of the French scale, for the infant about 8. To sound for stone, the patient is placed upon a table or firm couch, lying upon his back with the shoulders low, and the pelvis raised upon a hair cushion or other solid support so that it may be several inches higher than the shoulders. The thighs and legs are extended and lie flat. The bladder should, when possible, contain about three ounces of liquid. Special chairs and tables for sounding have been devised; upon them the patient is strapped and the pelvis raised or lowered at will. Like the microphone and sounding board, these devices are more impressive than useful. The surgeon may prefer to have the thighs and legs flexed so as to relax the abdominal walls. This is a matter of indifference except when it is desired to explore the roof of the blad- der with the tip of the sound. In such case relaxed abdominal walls allow pressure over the bladder to bring all parts of the roof of the viscus within reach of the tip of the instrument. Most male adults can be searched as well without an anaesthetic as with it. With women and children anaesthesia is always appropriate, in the former for reasons of delicacy, in the latter-to restrain spasmodic ejection of the urine, and to insure quiet manipulation,