510 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE URETHRA. cavity, and the formation of abscesses and sinuses which open in the perineum or in the scrotum. Pathological Anatomy.—The internal orifice of the fistula is often single, of variable dimensions—sometimes broad and funnel-shaped—especially when there has been a loss of substance. In other cases there are found, in the membranous and prostatic regions, a number of small openings or even a crowd of side channels, uniting in a single sinus at a small distance from the canal. Sometimes these side channels open in a urinary pouch, or in a uri- nary abscess, from which one or a number of sinuses are given off. In the immense majority of cases there are a number of cutaneous orifices. Civiale counted as many as fifty-two in the same subject. I have already indicated the mode of formation of multiple orifices. They open in the perineum, upon the scrotum, at the level of the root of the penis, without it being possible to assign to them any seat of predilection. But often, on account of the considerable extent of the burrowing and infiltration of urine, these perineo-scrotal fistulse are accompanied by secondary sinuses opening in the groin, at the upper part of the thigh, or even in the neighborhood of the knee. In other cases the secondary orifices are seen on the buttock (the infiltration of urine being propagated through the greater sciatic notch), in the lumbar region, or in the hypogastric region. Each cutaneous orifice pre- sents itself usually under the appearance of a red vegetation, rounded, more or less hard, like a hen’s anus ; sometimes the orifice is concealed under a fold or puckering of the skin. Sometimes the multiple orifices are separated by portions of healthy integument, sometimes they are united in a limited space, looking like a fungous and vegetating mass. The dimensions of these orifices are variable; sometimes so narrow as hardly to admit the smallest probe, sometimes large enough to permit the passage of an ordinary bougie. The arrangement of the fistulous track presents some differences with which it is important, for therapeutic purposes, to be acquainted. Its length varies from three or four to eight or ten centimetres. It is more or less straight; in the great majority of cases it is irregular—tortuous, anfractuous, presenting prolongations ending in culs-de-sac, or opening into cavities in which pus and urine stagnate. The walls are lined with a smooth membrane, which is very adherent to the subjacent tissues, presents the appearance of mucous mem- brane, and secretes a small quantity of muco-pus. When the track is long and sinuous, its walls are soft and fungous, and furnish a more abundant puriform secretion. Perineo-scrotal fistulae are not long in being complicated with secondary lesions, the most frequent of which consists in induration of the soft parts which surround the fistulous tracks, an induration which results from chronic inflammation of those parts under the influence of the continual action of urine. This induration, limited at first to the walls of the fistulous tracks themselves, is made manifest by the presence of a ligamentous cord, which may be felt with the fingers, and which extends from the external orifice towards the urethra. Afterwards this induration extends to the cellular tissue of the scrotum and of the perineum, and forms inequalities, larger or smaller elevations, which are sometimes so developed that they com- pletely change the appearance of the parts; thus the scrotum may be trebled in size, and the penis may disappear in the midst of this enormous tumor. Although the tumefaction and induration of the parts are generally diffuse and not well limited, there have sometimes been seen to develop in the neigh- borhood of the fistulous tracks true isolated tumors, and in one case Voille- mier1 found it necessary to practise ablation of one of these tumors, which Cocteau, These, p. 37.