URINARY CALCULUS. 248 resulting injuries are ecchymosis, contusions, excoriations, and lacerations of varying severity. It is possible with any lithotrite to pick up a fold of the bladder, pinch it slightly, and then let it go. I have done this on the cadaver and on the living subject with equal ease with the instruments of Bigelow, Thompson, and myself. With the old-fashioned fenestrated lithotrite, having a cutting edge upon the male blade, this accident was fraught with danger; with modern instruments, managed with a little care, the accident is unimportant. In many cases it is impossible to perform litholapaxy without having the water, even of the first wash, distinctly tinged, sometimes positively darkened, with blood. This blood comes from the slight scratching injuries inflicted upon the mucous membrane of the bladder, and upon its neck, by the jaws of the litho- trite and the angular fragments of the stone. Such a moderate appearance of blood is a matter of course, and in no way compromises the success of the operation, or portends an outbreak of serious inflammation at its termination. Hutchison, of Brooklyn, using a lithotrite of one of my earlier and imper- fect models, reported that he pinched off shreds of mucous membrane from the bladder, but no reaction followed, and “the result was satisfactory.” Wynkoop, of Hew York, using one of the earlier Bigelow instruments, found the jaws to clog, and had to use much force in extracting the blades. The clogging appears to have been due to some mechanical defect in the construc- tion of the instrument; abscess ensued from laceration of the deep urethra, and the patient was subsequently cut for removal of the remains of the stone and for cure of the abscess, and recovered. In another case treated by the same operator, in which also Bigelow’s lithotrite was used, the patient died twenty- nine hours afterwards, and at the autopsy a number of abrasions and minute lacerations of the mucous membrane of the bladder were found. Hence, it may be assumed that a certain amount of scratching damage to the bladder is commonly produced by all lithotrites,but that, as a rule,such moderate damage does no harm. It need hardly be added that the less damage done, the better, and that, other things being equal, the better the operator, and the more perfect the instrument, the less will be the physical injury inflicted upon the bladder. On two occasions in former years I have, while practising the old operation, pinched off small shreds of mucous membrane from the bladder—once, in fish- ing for a soft catheter in a paralyzed bladder, the patient denying any sensa- tion when the thin film of mucous membrane was seized, and once in working rapidly with an instrument which it was believed would not clog and could not catch the bladder. In neither of these cases did the least reactionary disturbance hinder the recovery of the patient, or indicate that any unusual damage had been done. In a case where a suit for malpractice was instituted in Hew Hampshire, one of the lawyers informed me that an irregular practitioner had passed the lithotrite but had found no stone. After considerable search, another sur- geon who was present introduced Lis finger into the rectum, and there found the jaws of the lithotrite which had passed through the membranous urethra. The wound healed, and the patient recovered. My personal experience1 lias led me to conclude that damage done to the urethra by a clogged instrument, or by the use of tubes too large for the canal, is more likely to be followed by disastrous results to the patient than similar or even greater damage inflicted upon the bladder. Much damage can be done to the urethra as well as to the bladder without serious conse- quences, as will he shown when speaking ot the clogging in lithotrites and impaction in tubes. In any case, it is only just to the patient upon whom 1 Am. Journ. Med. Sci., April, 1880.