1092 APPENDIX. 7. Furnishing. 8. Organization and management. 9. Nursing. 10. Special hospitals. 11. Cottage and convalescent hospitals. General Considerations as to Hospitals.—Before selecting the site of a hospital, certain principles must be adopted which will govern the details of the whole scheme, as to the form, size, and arrangement of the buildings. A general idea must be had of these essential principles in order to determine the location, area, and aspect of the site, with relation to the hospital itself and its surroundings. It may be assumed that there will be an administra- tion-building centrally placed, with buildings for wards, kitchen, and laundry, and other service-buildings, conveniently grouped, and if possible a separate house for nurses. The number and purposes of these buildings should be decided upon, with provision for future enlargement of the hospital. When, as is usually the case, only a part of the desired hospital is to be built at first, the whole scheme should be well considered, and everything done with relation to that, so as to make the expense of altering and enlarging the buildings as small as possible. The pavilion system should be adopted, and the question of having build- ings of one, two, or three stories, and how many of each, must be settled at the outset. Three-story pavilions should be objected to, except possibly for a limited and special class of cases ; and then, in dealing with committees and architects, there will arise questions as to the desired capacity of the hos- pital, and the material and cost of the site, in relation to the available funds. The area of the site may be roughly estimated at one acre for each eighty or one hundred patients, but the number will depend somewhat upon the arrangement of the buildings. The idea of erecting temporary structures, to be torn down in ten or fifteen years, where there is designed to be a permanent hospital, may be set down at once as impracticable. As an illustration of this, two one-story square wards of the Massachusetts General Hospital, “ designed for temporary structures, to be taken down and rebuilt after ten or twelve years’ service,” were repaired in 1884, after ten years’ use, by building new and permanent foundations under them, because “ they had proved to be more durable than was ex- pected, and had retained their original high sanitary condition.” At the Boston City Hospital there are two wooden, one-story pavilions, covered with corrugated iron, built as temporary structures in 1876. They have an ample and expensive arrangement of steam-heating coils, which are quite necessary, because it was shown by actual measurement, in 1878, that in cold weather not only was the air-supply per bed, from the inlet-registers, 8000 feet per hour, but that 2000 feet more per bed of cold air entered through the cracks, etc., in the walls, to be warmed and conveyed away through the ventilators. Practically such buildings are expensive to keep warm, too costly to be destroyed after a few years’ use, and not likely to be replaced; but their defects and discomforts will appear sooner or later, increase with their age, and endure until they are worn out. Permanent buildings of lasting materials, stone and brick, and modest in architecture, are the best, and can be made as healthy as any. They are much more comfortable and satisfac- tory, and require less repairing. Means of warming and ventilating can be adapted to them better, and more economically in the long run, in the lati- tudes of cold winters. Farther south, they are the coolest in summer, and a more equable temperature in winter can be kept in them than in wooden buildings. There should be a few destructible wooden huts for certain cases,