1139 PREPARATION OF MILITARY SURGEONS FOR FIELD DUTIES. Duties of the Surgeon in Charge of a Division Hospital The duties of a surgeon in charge of a division hospital are somewhat varied, depending upon the season of the year and the state of military operations, whether the army is in winter-quarters or engaged in an active campaign. In one case, more permanent arrangements are made with a view of remaining undisturbed for several months ; in the other, all the appli- ances of a division hospital are arranged and managed to meet certain conditions, defi- nite transportation, general mobility, and despatch in its construction and removal. Procuring all the necessary supplies for the sick and wounded, superintending the care and treatment which they should receive, organizing the hospital attendants, keeping the necessary and suitable records, causing reports to be made, and receiving orders from his superior officers and complying with them, are briefly, in the aggregate, the duties of the surgeon in charge of a division hospital. On the march, the sick and wounded on hand are placed in ambulances, and a medical officer, connected with the hospital, is assigned the duty of keeping with the ambulance train and rendering such assistance on the journey as the wants of the sick, etc., may demand. In the evening, or at the close of the day’s march, the surgeon in charge will make the necessary arrangements for sheltering and furnishing the sick, etc., present with food and med- ical attendance. This is often accomplished in this manner: The medical director of the corps indicates to the ambulance officer the place he desires the ambulances to park. The surgeon in charge then proceeds to pitch a certain number of tents, directs the cooks to provide beef-tea, hot coffee, etc., orders sinks to be dug, and sees that the sick and wounded are unloaded and taken care of, thus affording them attentions and com- fort consistent with the nature of circumstances. On the following morning, after food has been served to all, a “sick-call” is held, and all that require medicine receive it. Soon after, a morning report is made, signed by the surgeon in charge, and sent to the surgeon-in-chief of the division. Thereafter, if it is intended to resume the march, the sick and wounded are reloaded, the tents are struck, and everything packed. Thus the routine continues from day to day, as long as the march may last. In the event of an engagement, the surgeon-in-chief of the division indicates to the surgeon in charge of the hospital the place selected for the location of the division hospital. The latter then directs the pioneers or fatigue party to police the ground and pitch the tents, establishes the kitchen, appoints a chief cook and a cook for special diet, organizes the nurses and other attendants, unloads the ambulances of the sick, provides operating tables, and all necessary appliances for surgical operations, such as chloroform, stimulants, dressings, etc., orders sinks dug, sees that a sufficient supply of water is near, either by opening springs or by digging wells, etc. Thus accommoda- tions are made for the sick on hand as well as for the wounded that may be brought in from the battle-field. The surgeon in charge selects a medical officer to superintend unloading and disposing of the wounded as they come in. Such as require operations are taken to the tables and receive the attention of the surgeons. Very often comfort- able and convenient beds are made by tilling sacks with hay or straw, raising them from the ground on crutches or cross-pieces. The Recorder’s attention is then called to the wounded, and he takes down their names, rank, regiment, and character of injury, and, in order to prevent confusion, often finds it necessary to attach a small piece of bandage to the button-hole of the wounded man, that he may be assured after- wards that his name, etc., has been registered. It is the duty of the surgeon in charge to see that the reports at the operating tables are properly kept, specimens preserved and labelled,1 etc. He selects either a medical officer or a hospital steward to have immediate supervision of the kitchen, diet, and feeding of the men. He sees also that the wounds of all the wounded men are examined and dressed, and, in order to secure this, a sufficient number of medical officers are assigned to wards as dressers, and a medical officer, surgeon or assistant surgeon, is appointed each day to act as officer of the day. He is required to be on duty at night also, to attend to any emergency that may arise—sudden hemorrhage, prostration, etc. The dead likewise require the duties of the surgeon in charge. He selects a suitable location for a cemetery, and here inters 1 A large metal can, or covered close-stool, was provided for this purpose. The number designating the specimen, and attached to it, may be written on a piece of smooth wood or parch- ment with a pencil.