CONDITIONS WHICH MAY COMPLICATE DISEASES OF THE URETHRA. 525 be above all preventive, and medical as well as surgical. The preventive thera- peutic indications ought especially to attract attention: the disease once de- clared, the surgeon lias hardly anything to do but to recommend palliatives, or to gather indications for operative intervention. The preventive surgical treatment consists essentially in adopting measures of prudence, before, during, and after an operation. Before operation the patient should be obliged to take a rest of several days, longer or shorter, according to the nature and importance of the operation to come. A simple examina- tion of the urethra may, if necessary, be made off-hand, but a minute ex- ploration of the urethra, and still more one of the bladder, demands prepa- ration on the part of the patient. The time of resting may be employed in preparing, by the introduction of bougies with a progressively increasing diameter, the organs to undergo the passage and contact of more voluminous and harder instruments. Civiale, who took several days before carrying an instrument all the way into the bladder, lias laid down, on this subject, some very wise precepts, which may be summed up in these three words: slow- ness, patience, gentleness. It is unnecessary to say that force, even in the very smallest degree, ought never to be employed to cause an instrument to pass. The rapid passage of a bougie or catheter, besides that it may be injurious, is useless, the surgeon not having time to recognize the sensations which he ought to get from his instrument. These rules should be even more rigorously observed when exploration of the bladder is concerned. Daring the operation the same rules should be applied, that is to say, pains should be taken to diminish as much as possible the duration of the operative manoeuvres, and to regulate, with jealous care, the degree and duration of in- strumental contact (Guyon). Although urinary fever cannot be attributed to shock of the nervous system, it is wise to diminish or to completely sup- press pain, either by an injection of morphia, given half an hour before the operation, or even by amesthesia; the patient will come out less fatigued from an operation which has been made easier by means of the anaesthetic sleep. After the operation there are two capital indications: (1) to avoid chilling, which, even if slight, suffices to provoke a febrile attack ; (2) to oblige the patient to take absolute rest in bed for one or several days. Is it necessary to add that the practice of certain specialists, who not only make minute explorations but even perform operations in their offices, is to be condemned in the highest degree ? At the same time that he takes these precautions, the surgeon ought to attend to the medical indications: the symptoms in the digestive canal, so often associated wTith the beginning of urinary intoxication, should be com- bated, if possible, by saline purgatives and the bitter preparations; the reg- ular performance of the function of the skin should be reestablished by warm baths and dry frictions. It is an absolute rule to examine the urine, both as to its quantity and as to its quality; if there be opportunity, diluent and very slightly diuretic drinks should be administered ; alkalinity of the urine should be combated with boric acid, given by vesical injection, or internally, in doses of a gramme or a gramme and a half, if the condition of the diges- tive canal permit. There are nervous, cowardly patients, whom the sole fear of an operation puts in a state of deplorable agitation: bromide of potas- sium in large doses will produce the necessary sedation. Exaggerated sensi- tiveness of the genital organs, local irritation—which may be an obstacle to the free manipulation of instruments—may be advantageously combated with opium, with morphia in injections, with enemata containing laudanum, or with suppositories containing belladonna or chloral. It is customary to give the sulphate of quinia in larger or smaller doses in the course of the