110 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE RECTUM. it. that the case will call for all his skill and patience to bring it to a success- ful issue. Gelatinous and fibrous polypi are not uncommon complications of fissure, and are generally situated at its upper or internal end. If the polypus is not removed at the time that the ulcer is divided, failure is certain to result. If the fissure is of recent origin, it may often be cured without operation, especially if it is situated anteriorly. In women this can almost certainly be accomplished. The syphilitic fissure is the most amenable to general treatment, and syphilitic fissures are often multiple. If an operation be re- quired for multiple fissures, one incision through the sphincters will be suffi- cient. In all cases of fissure, rest in the recumbent position should, as much as possible, be adopted. Mild laxatives should usually be given to keep the bowels open once daily, but diet will sometimes effect this. The domestic remedy of figs soaked in oil, or onions and milk, at bedtime, may be sufficient. I often order a combination in equal parts of confection of sulphur and con- fection of senna; small doses of sulphate of magnesium or of sulphate of potassium, half a tumbler of Pullna or Hunyadi-Janos water taken in the morning fasting, the compound liquorice powder of the German Pharmaco- poeia, and the liquid extract ot cascara sagrada, are great favorites of mine. It is necessary to alternate the medicines, as one or other seems to lose its . effect. All drastic purges should be avoided, but I do not object to small doses of the aqueous extract of aloes combined with nux vomica and iron. The patient should manage to get the bowels to act the last thing at night, instead of in the morning, as the pain does not continue as long when lying down, and this habit may be brought about by a nightly injection of half a pint of cold water. After the action, iq, xx to f 3ss of liq. opii sed. should be injected with f 3ij of cold starch. As an application, I know of nothing better than the following ointment : Hydrarg. subchloridi, gr. iv; Morphise sulphatis, gr. j; Ext. belladonna1, gr. i j; Ung. sambuci, 5j, to be frequently applied. I have effected many cures with this ointment alone. A very light touch with the nitrate of silver, not to cauterize, but to sheathe the part with an albumi- nate of silver, is occasionally advisable. Should one little spot in the ulcer be particularly painful, it is probably due to the exposure of a nerve filament, which may be destroyed by the application of the acid nitrate of mercury. If there be severe spasm of the sphincter, extract of belladonna should be thickly smeared around the anus over the muscle. If ointments disagree with the sore, finely powdered iodoform may be tried, mixed with white vase- linear lead-water in combination with opium. Painting over the part with liq. plumbi subacetatis is a most successful remedy. But it must be acknowl- edged that the most carefully devised and carried out general treatment frequently Tails. If the base of the ulcer be gray and hard, and if on passing the finger into the bowel, the sphincter is found hypertrophic and spasmodically contracted, feeling as it often does like a strong India-rubber band with its upper edge sharply and hardly defined, nothing but the adoption of operative measures to prevent all action of the muscle, for a greater or less length of time, is likely to effect a cure of the fissure. The operation may be aided by intro- ducing a speculum; this enables the surgeon to see exactly where his knife should go, and the parts are also rendered tense, so that their division is facilitated ; the incision should commence a little above the upper end of the fissure, and should terminate a little beyond its outer end, so that the whole sore may be cut through. As a general rule, the depth of incision should not be less than a quarter of an inch. If the outer end of the fissure be marked by a swollen and inflamed piece of