WRY-NECK, OR TORTICOLLIS. 1085 becomes established as age advances. If not of long standing, the curvature of the spine is remedied by relieving the muscular contraction, but when the deformity has been allowed to continue unchecked until the adult age, the condition is very difficult to overcome. The use of a spinal sup- port for many years, will, however, gradually improve, if not altogether reduce, the curvature, the contracted muscle having been of course tirst treated. The best form of instrument is that with spring-plates, recommended for the treatment of lateral curvature ; one of these plates may be attached to the top of the central lever, and carried up so as to give support to the cervical vertebrae. A condition of wry-neck is very frequently met with after scarlet fever, rheumatism, and other acute attacks of disease. This condition generally depends upon contraction of the deep muscles of the neck rather than upon shortening of the sterno-mastoid. Te- notomy is not admissible in the treat- ment of such cases, but they yield very readily to instrumental measures. The chief interest attached to these cases is the somewhat close resem- blance which they bear to the early stage of cervical caries, for at the com- mencement of the latter disease the head is very frequently carried to one or other side. The absence of local pain, and still more the perfect freedom of movement between the separate vertebrae, when the neck is flexed and extended, will generally suffice to establish the exact nature of the case, for we very rarely And caries of the vertebrae accompanied by free movement of the affected bones. It is as well in all cases of lateral deflection of the head observed after an attack of acute illness, to be somewhat guarded in making a diagnosis ; fortunately, a similar course of treatment is applicable to both the conditions referred to, for a few days’ rest will generally greatly improve the condition of wry-neck, whilst this treatment can be continued if the more severe affection be found to exist. [ Wry-neck, with painful, convulsive spasm of the affected muscles, has been successfully treated by the administration of bromide of potassium and the corrosive chloride of mercury, by Dr. Little; by the application of the hot iron, by Dr. C. K. Mills; by stretching the spinal accessory nerve, by Southam and Mosetig-Moorhof; and by resection of the same nerve, by De Morgan, Aunandale, Hivington, and Tillaux.]