ORTHOPAEDIC SURGERY. 1082 which it is adjusted to suit the requirements of the case, this instrument is a most suitable one to employ in the treatment of old established curva- ture, and in those cases in which the patient is unable to attend for frequent adjustments by the surgeon. Another instrument which is to a considerable extent self-adjustable, is that introduced by Mr. Wm, Adams (Fig. 1511). Fig. 1510. Fig. 1511. Spinal support with shields. Spinal support with spring-plates. It consists of a framework similar to that of the laced-shield support, but the shields are replaced by plates which are fitted in accordance with the condition of curvature, and which are kept in a state of constant pressure by means of springs connecting the plates with the central bar. This support is of great value both in the early stage of deformity, where there is a long curve, and also in long-standing cases in which the curvature is not very severe, but has become confirmed from the lengthened period of its existence. The mechanical appliances above described are those which I am in the habit of employing; many other forms of support have been invented, hut not having had any practical experience of their action, I cannot offer any opinion as to their value. The surgeon, in selecting an instrument, must see that it consists of a rigid framework with adjustable actions to give pressure at the exact spot required. One method of treating lateral curvature that has been employed of late years, must be noticed on account of its very general adoption by those who have not had much experience in the treatment of this deformity. This method is that introduced by Dr. Sa}rre, and it consists in the appli- cation to the body of a plaster-of-Paris jacket, and in the daily use of self-suspension. The jacket is made by incasing the body in plaster-of-Paris bandages, whilst the patient is suspended by the head and arms. Daily suspension is also ordered as an exercise to gradually reduce the curves by stretching. Dr. Sayre argues that, by applying the jacket during exten- sion, the stretching of the spine then obtained is permanently maintained; and in support of this theory he quotes cases in which the height of the patient was considerably increased after the application of the jacket. But it is evident that if the plaster-of-Paris jacket is a perfectly retentive splint, as Dr. Sayre declares it to be, self-suspension after the jacket is applied