INFLAMMATION OF BONE IN RELATION TO ITS CONSTITUENT TISSUES, ETC. 853 periostitis; sometimes they have been able to see only osteomyelitis. We shall see that it is always useful to take both of them into account, not only as a matter of theoretical interest, but also from the stand-point of therapeu- sis. Independently of the differences in inflammations of bones according to the anatomical element involved, distinctions must be established according to the region of the bone which is implicated. These distinctions are, from a practical stand-point, even more important than the former. A long bone (let us take the femur for example) is made up during the period of growth, that is to say, during the period of life when the exposure to affections of the bones is greatest, of three distinct pieces ; the diaphysis and the epiphyses. These pieces are separated by the epiphyseal or connect- ing cartilages, which, isolating them anatomically, form a more or less resist- ant barrier to the propagation of their respective inflammations. It is important to distinguish these several inflammations. That of the diaphysis bears the name of diaphysitis, that of the epiphyses will be called epiphysitis. The different relations of these two portions of the bone, and the connection of the epiphyses with the terminal articulations, impress upon these affections a different course, explicable by their anatomical connections. When the whole of a bone is inflamed, when the diaphysis and its terminal epiphyses are invaded, the disorder bears the name of panosteitis, that is to say, inflammation of the whole bone. This total inflammation is more i’are than one would at first believe. The large bones of the extremities are rarely involved from one articulation to the other. It is seen rather in the small bones, and in the short bones which have only a single centre of ossification and no intermediate cartilage between their different prominences. Spontaneous inflammations of the bones occupy seats of election, corres- ponding, as I have already said, to the points of greatest activity of physi- ological development. The morbid predisposition is, all other things being equal, in direct ratio to the activity of proliferation of the anatomical ele- ments. The regions of the bone at which growth is chiefly taking place at any given period, are by that fact peculiarly predisposed to become the seats of pathological new formations, and especially of acute or chronic in- flammations. Spontaneous inflammations of the bones are peculiarly diseases of child- hood and adolescence, that is to say, the period during which the bone grows. It is at this age that the action of cold, forced exercise, fatigue of the skele- ton, or juxta-epiphyseal strain, gives rise, under the influence of a scrofulous or rheumatic predisposition, or of a general, systemic poisoning, to those acute or subacute lesions which are chiefly characterized by being produced where the formative activity is most developed—in the neighborhood of the juxta-epiphy- seal portions of the diaphysis, where increase in length takes place, and under the periosteum, where increase in thickness occurs. Hence the frequency of those forms of osteitis, osteo-periostitis, and osteomyelitis, which I have called juxta-epiphyseal, and which are seen not only at the extremities of the dia- pliyses of long bones, but also upon the borders or surfaces of flat and short bones which are connected with a cartilage of development (spinal border of the scapula, crest of the ilium, posterior third of the ealcaneurn, anterior extremities of the ribs). The crest of the ilium and the spinal border of the scapula, in young subjects, are constituted by an epiphyseal margin which is separated from the diaphysis by a connecting cartilage. Inflammation of the diaphyseal border is the analogue of inflammation of the terminal portions of the long bones ; it is also a juxta-epiphyseal osteitis. Marginal osteitis is an inflammation of the epiphysis. The short bones which have no epiphysis, and the flat bones which have only one centre of ossification, increase by their periphery. Peripheral appo-