1038 ORTHOPEDIC SURGERY. the rachitic child, the want of tenacity of the ligamentous tissues which is always present, is the direct cause of the deformity; in the heavy, ill-developed child, the fibrous tissue is not perhaps in such a defective condition as in the rickety infant, hut the weight of the body is greater than the feet can support. At a later period of life, boys and girls of from ten to fifteen years of age often acquire fiat-foot, especially those of the poorer class, who are badly fed "and are obliged to work before they are sufficiently matured to bear the fatigue to which they are subjected. These cases are usually neglected until the arch of the foot is completely depressed, and relief is not sought for until walking causes so much pain that the subject is no longer able to follow his occupation. Pain is generally first felt on the dorsum of the foot, but in some cases the sole of the foot first becomes painful; the pain on the dorsum is due to the upper surfaces of the cuboid bone and os calcis, and of the scaphoid and astragalus, being pressed together; that which occurs in the sole of the foot arises from stretching of the calcaneo-scaphoid ligament, and from the pressure which is brought to bear upon the sunken arch. The occurrence of pain is followed by contraction of the peronei muscles and of the extensors of the toes, and this contraction is at first due to reflex irritation; as the deformity increases the muscular shortening becomes permanent, and pain along the affected muscles is added to that already existing. When this condition is reached, the foot pre- sents the appearance illustrated in Fig. 1491. The treatment of fat-foot in the rickety or debilitated infant may always be successfully conducted by the use of mechanical means alone : a shoe similar to that employed in con- genital valgus is required to restore the arch of the foot; after tins has been effected, a pad must be worn in the boot to support the weakened foot when the child is standing or walking, and if the case was originally of a severe grade, the use of the instrument must be continued at night. If the deformity has been neglected, the peronei and extensor muscles may require division, in children three or four years of age. In the early stage of flat-foot, arising in boys and girls who are suffering from debility and who are overworked, the exciting cause must be removed if possible, and a less fatiguing oc- cupation be substituted for that which has pro- duced the deformity ; if placed in circumstances favorable for recovery, the arch of the foot soon becomes restored ; pads should be worn in the hoots, and the feet should be douched daily with cold water and shampooed on their under surface. If the deformity has progressed to such an extent that the arch is much depressed, mechanical treatment with the Scarpa’s shoe, of the pattern used in the treatment of advanced congenital valgus, will be necessary for a few weeks ; and when again permitted to use the foot, it is advisable that the patient should wear a steel support on the outside of the leg, extending from the calf to the boot. An excellent method of placing the feet in good position, in the early stage of flat-foot, is one suggested by Dr. Little: the patient sits in the position of a tailor, with the legs crossed and the feet resting on their dorsal surfaces, and by so doing inverts each foot and elevates the outer border; by adopting this position for several hours during the day, cases in the early stage may be cured without the use of Scarpa’s shoe or other mechanical appliances. When pain has become developed, there will Fig. 1491. Flat-foot.