987 PULSATILE TUMORS OF BONE. Diagnosis.—An aneurism of bone may be confounded: (1) With an aneurism developed in the soft parts, without any lesion of the bone; (2) With one of the tumors of bone which exhibit pulsation; (3) With a simple bone-tumor. Aneurisms of the bones have symptoms analogous to those of aneurisms of the soft parts, and it is possible, therefore, to mistake one of these affections for the other. Nevertheless, it is generally easy to distinguish them by the following characteristics: Aneurism of the bone is connected with the subjacent bone; there are often found near its base lamellae of bone which give the sensation of crepitation; by pressing down upon the tumor, it is noticed that the bone has undergone a loss of substance. Other aneu- risms are movable, and but loosely connected with the bone near them; they may be displaced, and they have a much more marked blowing sound. The diagnosis from tumors accompanied by pulsation rests upon the following signs: (1) An aneurism in the bone disappears almost wholly under continu- ous pressure, while a sarcomatous or carcinomatous tumor is but little affected by pressure. (2) If the principal artery of the limb be compressed, turges- cence and pulsation reappear much more quickly in purely vascular tumors. (3) Fluctuation, combined with pulsation and a murmur, constitutes, accord- ing to Professor Richet, a clinical sign of great value. In case there is an envelope of bone, an exploratory puncture, giving a jet of arterial blood, will enable one to make the diagnosis. (Jamain and Terrier.) Prognosis.—These tumors are grave because they destroy the bone upon which they are situated, abolish the function of the limb, and necessitate ligation of the principal artery or amputation. Treatment.—(1) Ligation of the principal artery of the limb has been em- ployed in five cases, and has been followed by success four times (Lallemand, Roux, Lagout, Demongeot de Confevron); in the fifth case considerable im- provement followed, but there was a recurrence after a fall on the knee (Carnochan). (2) Amputation has been practised in three cases, with one death (Peterson), one recovery (Parisot), and one recurrence (Scarpa). A fourth patient, ope- rated upon by Richet, had secondary hemorrhages which required ligature of the subclavian, the patient dying of pyaemia. (3) Compression of the principal artery has failed in one case. It seems to me that this method of treatment ought always to be employed at first. After a methodical trial of it, one may think of further surgical interference. To sum up, in cases of pulsatile tumors of the bones, the surgeon should com- mence by compression of the principal vessel of the limb. If compression fails, he should try the ligature. Amputation should be practised only as a last resort. Electro-puncture, and the coagulating injections recommended by Volkmann, should be utterly rejected. I have given here a summary of the investigations of certain surgeons in regard to aneurisms of the bones, but I feel bound to say that this lesion is extremely rare, and that, in the great majority of cases, very vascular sarcomata have been mistaken for aneurisms— tumors which are truly aneurismal, and which present all the clinical signs of a dilatation situated in the course of a large vessel. In the museum of our Faculty of Medicine are found several specimens of this kind, collected by Marc-Antoine Petit, Gensoul, etc., and designated by the name of aneu- rism. These tumors required amputation of the limb, and from their anato- mico-pathological characteristics it is evident that those surgeons had telan- giectatic sarcomata to deal with.