638 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. the other—and then with one stroke of a catlin removes both the gland and its scrotal coverings. The operation is rapidly accomplished—which was a recommendation before the introduction of anaesthetics—and the redundant skin is removed at the same time. It is applicable to cases where the tumor is not very large. A retained testicle when diseased may be removed from the inguinal canal by making suitable incisions over it. The inguinal process of the perito- neum must be tightly ligatured with catgut. It is very desirable to perform the operation of castration antiseptically. Recurrent hemorrhages are to be prevented by carefully tying the vessels, and, should bleeding occur, the wound must be opened up and the vessels secured; extravasation of blood takes place readily in the cellular tissue. In order to obtain good drainage, it has been proposed to make the incision at the back of the scrotum, but this is not necessary when a large drainage-tube is used. Entozoa in the Testicle and Scrotum. Entozoa are rarely found in the testicle. Sir A. Cooper describes an hyda- tid cyst which was situated in the epididymis of a testicle, removed from a dissecting-room subject, the gland being rather less than twice its normal size. In some few instances the jilaria medinensis, or Guinea-worm, has been observed encapsuled in the scrotum. The presence of the Jilaria sanguinis hominis, in cases of elephantiasis scroti and other affections in the same neighborhood, has already been referred to. Mr. Howard Marsh showed at the Pathological Society1 the two spermatic cords of a man aged 46, with extensive hydatid disease within the abdomen. Each cord was occu- pied by an hydatid tumor of the size and shape of a hen’s egg, placed just below the external inguinal ring ; and, as these both contained fluid, they presented the appear- ance of hydroceles of the cord. On one side only the cavity lodging the hydatids com- municated directly with the peritoneum, and was apparently the sac of an old hernial protrusion into the funicular process. Functional Disorders of the Male Genital Organs. Spermatorrhoea ; Nocturnal and Diurnal Pollutions—We owe the term spermatorrhoea to Lallemand, who used it to designate morbid seminal losses ; it is not well chosen, as continuous discharges from the urethra are found under the microscope to be destitute of spermatozoa. Galen erroneously considered that gonorrhoea, which is simply a purulent discharge, was due to a flow of semen. The semen as ejaculated is formed by the combined secretions of the testicles, vesiculte seminales, prostate, Cowper’s and other urethral glands. The testes produce a whitish, tenacious, inodorous mass, principally composed of spermatozoa; the fluid portion and the odor peculiar to the secretion are furnished by the union of the remaining secretions. Dr. C. II. Ralf'e2 states that semen has the following composition: Water, 86 parts ; solids, 14 parts (proteids, 6.6 parts; extractives, 1.5 parts; fats, 2.5. parts; salts, 3.5 parts). The albuminous matters consist of ordinary albumen, which is deposited from an aqueous solution by a temperature of 73° C. (163.4° F.); an albumen precipitated from an aqueous solution by acetic acid, and which therefore 1 Trans. Path. Soc. Lond., vol. xxv. p. 187. 2 Outlines of Physiological Chemistry.