(399 GENITAL ATRESIA. cong6nitale. Paris, 1877. vagina rather than to the vulva, although some writers, Puech, for example, describe the condition of the hymen mentioned as a vulvar atresia. It is rare that hymeneal atresia is discovered, or produces any serious acci- dents, before puberty, though in a few instances accumulation of mucus may cause its distention in the infant, requiring an incision; such cases have been observed by Godefroy,1 Depaul, Blundell, and some others. A girl affected with imperforate hymen has at the age of puberty the characteristic changes of that period, save that the monthly flow does not appear; at more or less regular intervals efforts at menstruation recur, but they are fruitless. At first, when there has been for a time secretion without excretion, the product accumulates in the vagina, this collection of blood being known as hcemato- colpos. When the vagina is distended to its utmost, the uterus becomes enlarged and contains the fluid which escapes periodically from its mucous surface, this intra-uterine collection being known as hcernatornetra; the ovi- ducts too, in some cases, may become receptacles for the menstrual fluid, and then the uterus, greatly enlarged, and its walls thinned—in one case observed by Puech,2 3 * they were as thin as paper—forms a notable abdominal tumor, having on each side a projection formed by the corresponding dis- tended oviduct. In most cases, however, the tumors found on the sides of the uterus are caused by tension of the broad ligaments. A fatal termi- nation may result from peritonitis caused by the passage of blood from the abdominal opening of an oviduct into the peritoneal cavity, or a similar accident may follow rupture of a distended oviduct, or of the uterus. Such a termination, according to Bernutz, is rare before the second or third year after the beginning of the accidents in congenital occlusion. In exceptional cases, the uterus by violent contractions overcomes the resistance, and there is then a spontaneous cure. Treatment.—Emmet advises free incision of the hymen, and thorough wash- ing out of the uterine cavity ; and, certainly, the uniform success which he has had by this method speaks strongly in its favor. On the other hand, Bernutz favors gradual evacuation of the fluid, and condemns the washing out of the uterus which Recamier had practised. If the uterus be greatly distended, if the oviducts he also involved, or if adhesions have followed inflamma- tion, most operators prefer gradual antiseptic drainage to rapid emptying of the uterus. In some cases8 there may he one or more membranes above the hymen, obstructing the vagina, these being most frequently found at or a little above the middle of the canal; in one instance three, and in another four, were present, though in most cases there is only one; their treatment does not differ from that of imperforate hymen. A vaginal atresia is called complicated when there is atresia of the uterus also; the treatment of the latter condition will be considered in connection with the next topic. Absence or Rudimentary Condition of the Vagina.—When there is absence or a rudimentary condition of the vagina, a similar anomaly is in most cases found on the part of the uterus. In the one case there is inter- posed between the bladder and the rectum a thin layer of connective tissue; in the other there is a fibrous cord occupying the normal place of the vagina. In some instances this fibrous tissue may be partially converted into a canal, oftener at the upper than at the lower portion, but in some cases at both upper and lower—a cul-de-sac at each place—the intervening part being solid. 1 Bouchut, Traite Pratique des Maladies des Nouveau-nes. 2 De 1’Atresie.des Voies Genitales de la Femme. 3 Delaunay, Etude sur le Cloisonnement transversal du Yagin complet et ineomplet, d’origine