724 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE FEMALE GENITALS. 1 Hegar und Kaltenbach, op. cit. tion have their origin in childbirth. Those that thus originate may be caused by continuous pressure of the presenting part of the child, resulting- in subsequent sloughing, and must necessarily affect only the lower por- tion of the rectum. More frequently, however, they follow a complete rupture of the perineum which has only partially healed ; or, though the perineum may be completely restored, there may remain an ununited wound above, in the recto-vaginal wall. Schroeder says that he has seen a double perforation into the rectum occur in childbed, from deep-seated diphtheritis of the posterior vaginal wall. Ron-puerperal fistuIre may result from can- cerous or from syphilitic ulceration, or from an abscess in the recto-vaginal wall which opens into each canal; an example of the last, occurring a few days after normal labor, is given by Velpeau. They may also be caused by the penetration of a foreign body through the rectum and vagina, as by im- palement. Amussat treated a girl of eighteen for a fistula as large as a goose- quill, which had resulted from an injury received when she was six years old ; this injury had been caused by her falling upon the end of a broom- handle which had penetrated into the rectum and vagina, and had destroyed the recto-vaginal septum; recovery had been complete, except that this fistula remained. A foreign body in the rectum may cause perforation from this canal into the vagina; but more frequently the accident has happened from a badly fitting pessary perforating from the vagina into the rectum. Recto-vaginal fistulre vary in size, some being so small that only a fine probe can enter, while others are so large that almost the entire recto-vaginal wall is destroyed; only rarely, however, do they measure more than a centi- metre and a half, or two centimetres, in their longest diameter.1 The passage of fecal gas, or of feces, or of both, through the vagina, is the characteristic indication of the lesion. If the fistula be large enough, it can be detected both by vaginal and by rectal touch. A visual examination is made with the patient lying in the dorso-sacral position, and a univalve speculum is used to lift up the anterior vaginal wall. If the fistula be so small that it eludes detection by this means alone, a colored fluid should be injected into the rectum, and then the place of its escape into the vagina will be seen. Spontaneous cure of puerperal recto-vaginal fistulse seldom occurs. If the lesion be from cancer, no attempt at cure should be made, and if it be syphi- litic—which, according to Emmet, is most probable if there is a stricture just within the anus—any such attempt must be postponed until after suit- able constitutional treatment has been employed; moreover, in this case, cure of the stricture must precede an operation upon the fistula. Cauterization with nitrate of silver, or with a point of hot iron, may be employed, according to Ilegar and Kaltenbach, with a probability of success if the fistulous opening be no larger than a pea ; but if no notable diminution in the size result, the cauterization should not be repeated. In many cases denudation of the borders of the fistula, or of the sides of the fistulous track, and the application of sutures, will be required. One of three methods, which are distinguished as vaginal, rectal, and perineal, may be employed, the selec- tion being made according to the peculiarities of the case. As a preliminary to any method of operating, the patient's howels are thoroughly evacuated. In the vaginal operation, the patient is in the dorso-sacral position ; the anterior vaginal wall may be lifted up by a univalve speculum, lateral dila- tors may be used, and a tenaculum booked into the fistulous margin; it is sometimes advised to insert a finger into the rectum, in order to more com- pletely expose the fistula; another method of exposing it and of rendering