538 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. the operation is usually done by slitting up the prepuce in the middle line, on the dorsum, but Mr. Liston was in favor of dividing it on one side of the freenum, as that sufficed to correct the contraction and yet allowed the pre- puce to cover the glans. Jobert (de Lamballe) and others have divided the prepuce on both sides of the frsenum. The operation is to be performed with a sharp pair of scissors, or with a director and a sharp bistoury ; care is to be taken to divide the mucous membrane completely, and to stitch it carefully to the cut margins of the skin. Dr. R. W. Taylor1 makes, with a strong pair of scissors devised by himself, two incisions, one on each side, exactly in the middle of the lateral portion of the prepuce. Two flaps, an upper and a lower, are formed, which enable the glans to be completely un- covered. If the flaps prove to be redundant, they may, after the subsidence of inflammation, be trimmed to suit the requirements of the case. Van Buren favors the removal of the foreskin, in adults, by making two cuts, one on the dorsum and the other near the frsenum, and then excising the flaps of skin on each side. Dr. Hue, of Rouen, divides the prepuce by passing an elastic ligature through its dorsal surface by means of a large needle; the elastic cord cuts its way out in three or four days. Circumcision has also been performed with an elastic ligature. This method is tedious, painful, and more dangerous than ordinary circumcision. In some cases the ordinary or the galvanic ecraseur has been used, but the wound left is a highly contused one, and is liable to be followed by suppuration and secondary hemorrhage. Circumcision performed in the following manner will give good results. Having marked the situation of the base of the glans penis on the foreskin, the surgeon seizes the prepuce with a pair of catch-forceps, at the junction of the skin and mucous membrane, draws it well forward, grasps it firmly with a phimosis-clamp or pair of dressing forceps, slanting the instrument down- wards and forwards so as to leave the frsenum as long as possible, and removes the portion in front of the clamp with a straight bistoury. On removing the clamp, the skin will slip back towards the base of the glans, leaving it covered by the mucous membrane as with a cap; this is to be slit up in the middle line, above, as far as the corona glandis. The vessels which are found on the dorsum, and at the frsenum, are to be twisted or tied with fine catgut. The mucous membrane is to be stitched carefully to the skin by the requisite number of fine catgut sutures, which in the course of a few days will become absorbed; or a continuous silk suture may be used, beginning at one side of the frsenum and ending on the other, the ends being fastened together so that when it is necessary to remove the suture, it will come away when one por- tion is cut and traction made on the ends. The parts heal so very rapidly in children that with them it is unnecessary to introduce sutures. It is ad- visable to give children an ansesthetic, but in adult cases it is better, when no adhesions are present, to freeze the part in front of the clamp with a freezing mixture or ether spray. The patient must rest in bed with a narrow strip of lint wrapped around the part, which is to be supported against the abdomen. In some cases the operation is rendered more severe from the adhesion of the prepuce to the glans; the parts are to be separated by tearing the adhesions down, or by dissection. Sir William Fergusson recommended the removal of the entire foreskin in these cases. Adults sutler inconvenience from erections, which cause a drag on the sutures, and which are best prevented by using a hard bed with light covering, and by applying an India-rubber bag filled with ice between the legs. If the operation be performed in the manner here advocated, too much skin cannot be removed. It has happened that the Am. Journ. Sypli. and Derm., Oct. 1872.