785 PUERPERAL LAPARO-CYSTOTOMY, ETC. moval of the foetus it would be impossible in some cases to determine the feasibility of ligating and exsecting the entire growth; besides, the condition of the patient, as was that of one I saw recently, might render such an explo- ration one of great gravity. Prof. August Martin proposes to transfix the placental connections with needles, threaded with heavy ligatures, and, hav- ing tied the latter, to remove the placenta and cyst. We must, however, consider that there are three chief forms of extra-uterine pregnancy, viz., Fallopian, ovarian, and abdominal,* and that the most common, and the most difficult to save, is the last. In quite a number of secondary laparotomies, the possibility of ligating and exsecting the entire foetal mass has been proven, as will be shown hereafter. Laparo-cystectomy.—Since the electro-magnetic current has been dis- covered to be so safe and efficient a foeticide in the incipiency of extra-uterine pregnancy, many cases have been cured, and thus the later question of what to do with the foetus has been set at rest. Many cases, however, are not examined or recognized until the foetus is too much grown to make this plan of treatment advisable, as when dead at four months or more, it becomes liable to decomposition, and may thus be a centre of danger. Laparo-cystectomy may here present itself as somewhat less dangerous than an operation nearer the time of maturity of the foetus. If the whole mass can be ligated and exsected, the operation becomes not only one of far less risk, but the recovery of the patient will be much more rapid. Puerperal elytrotomy, improperly named the “ vaginal Caesarean section,” as neither abdomen nor uterus is incised, has been several times performed with success, even at the full maturity of the foetus, the children being- delivered alive by the forceps. What is denominated the intra-ligamentary or extra-peritoneal variety of pregnancy, is the best adapted to an operation through the vagina. In this peculiar form, the foetus is inclosed within the two layers of the broad ligament, the ovum, originally in the Fallopian tube, having passed through its lower wall and become developed beneath it, and extending upward from the postero-lateral part of the pelvis into the abdominal cavity, the original Fallopian cyst being still a part of the foetal inclosure and connected with the placenta. When such a sac is opened by elytrotomy, and the foetus removed, the placenta may be peeled off with little hemorrhage, but as the contrary may take place, it is much more prudent not to try the experiment. In 1816, Dr. John King,1 2 of Edisto Island, South Carolina, saved both mother and child by this operation, and removed the placenta, but no mention is made of hemorrhage. In 1881, Dr. J. H. Mathieson,3 of St. Mary’s, Ontario, had a like success, the living foetus weighing eight pounds seven and a half ounces. He also removed the placenta, which was readily separated from the posterior left side of the cavity, and presented the peculiar form of three lobes. There was not much hemorrhage, and what there was ceased under the introduction of a sponge soaked in a solution of perchloride ot iron. In another form of post-uterine gestation an operation is much more danger- ous. The late Dr. Albert H. Smith, of Philadelphia,4 in 1878, opened a foetal cyst through the Douglas cul-de-sac by means of Paquelin’s thermo-cautery knife, and in doing so cut through the placenta and brought on a profuse hemorrhage. When this was checked by a partial removal of the placenta, 1 These are shown by their early history to have been primarily Fallopian in a larsre propor- tion of cases. 8 F * 2 New York Med. Repos., p. 388. 1817. 3 Lancet, May 24, 1884, p. 940. 1 Am Jour. Obstetrics, vol. xi. p. 825. 1878. VOL. VI.—50