SELECTION OF METHOD OF RADICAL TREATMENT. 207 This table clearly goes to show that the larger the stone, the safer relatively to the lateral section is the high operation. I5nt it shows with still greater force anil clearness that the high operation is not applicable to stones under one ounce in weight (and the majority of stones found in practice weigh less than one ounce), since the mortality of such stones is nearly three times greater for the suprapubic than for the lateral operation. This criticism is enforced by the unimpassionecl eloquence of Billroth, a general surgeon, and therefore a most competent observer and critic, who in speaking of the operation remarks d— This operation finds no great favor with me, although formerly when I was fortunate enough to be Yon Langenbeck’s clinical assistant, I was very much taken with it, and it appeared to me to be the ideal of an operation for stone. The cases of suprapubic operation in children performed by Von Langenbeck’s masterly hand, did well eventually, but there was much sloughing of the cellular tissue in the neighborhood of the wound. After the slough separated the wound granulated up well and closed rapidly, but the children always were very ill after the operation, and suffered far more than when subjected to median or lateral lithotomy. My conclusion from the evidence, therefore, is that the high operation is suitable for the management of very large stones, for encysted stones, for stones complicated by tumors of the bladder, and for certain foreign bodies, but that it is not appropriate for general application. The claims of the media'll operation have been advocated in this country by Markoe and others, and the operation has been rather more favored in some quarters than the lateral section. Its statistical showing has also been very good, particularly in this coum try, but as the operation has been employed mainly with children, and in cases of small stone, these results do not prove its value as a general procedure. The excellent analytical table of C. Williams,2 of 64 cases operated on at the Norfolk and Norwich Hospital, sets forth these facts quite clearly; for of these operations, those done under the age of 40 showed a mortality of 1 in 14, and of the remainder, done between 40 and 80, the deaths were 1 in 3T3T, while where the stone weighed over 3 drachms 2 scruples, only one recovery took place—a very large stone of 41 ounces—and in this instance a portion of the perineum and rectum sloughed, and a permanent perineo-recto-vesical fistula was established. Williams compares these 64 cases with the last 64 lateral lithotomies done in the same hospital—the mortality in the latter being 8, against 13 deaths in the same number of median sections. This showing, so favorable to lateral lithotomy, should be modified by saying that the average age in the patients submitted to lateral lithotomy was something under 38, while the age of those undergoing the median section averaged something under 45. The bilateral and redo-vesical manoeuvres are modifications of the lateral and median operations. The former is often appropriate, the latter never. Even in its best showing—Koenig’s table—the mortality is 1 in 5.18 (ages not given), and fistula remained in those who got well in 1 case out of each 6. Lithotritv.— The statistics of lithotrify belong to two groups, one repre- senting the old, the other the modern operation. Statistics of the former are well known, of the latter not yet fully made up. A collection ot 1 ithotrity operations, 1470 in number, by various surgeons, has been made by Gross,3 with a mortality of 1 in 9.24. In children, out of 21 1 Clinical Surgery, New Sydenham Society’s Translation, p. 276. London, 1881. 'l Holmes’s System of Surgery, 2d ed., vol. iv. p. 1078. 3 System of Surgery, 6th ed., vol. ii. p. 736. 1882.