879 TREATMENT OF BONE-INFLAMMATIONS. daily predisposed to this affection, and they often succumb to true pyaemia, whether subjected to amputation or treated by incision of the abscess. Nowadays amputation should be but rarely practised; trephining or total ablation of the diseased bone will save limbs which formerly were sacrificed. Everything depends upon the extent of the lesion, and upon the number of joints invaded ; if several hones are attacked, with their contiguous joints, in different segments of the same limb ; if the multiple joints of the foot and of the hand are invaded at the same time as those of the elbow and knee, or if, on the other hand, the soft parts are so burrowed by the purulent deposits that the limb resembles a sac full of pus, amputation becomes necessary. But if a single one of the large bones of the limbs be attacked, even if it be affected with panosteitis, that is to say, with total inflammation of the bone, and sup- puration of the terminal joints, it may be removed. For, by practising this operation by the subperiosteal method, an operation will be done which is not usually graver than an amputation. Much more, if a pandiaphysitis be met with, which has left intact the terminal joints, one should save the limb and put a stop to infection by total ablation of the infecting centre, that is to say, by ablation of the portion of bone of which the medulla is infiltrated with pus. Sub-periosteal ablation of an inflamed bone, done before the diffusion of the pus through the soft parts, will doubtless always be a serious operation; but with antiseptic dressings it should be attempted much oftener than in the past, especially with children in whom we may hope for regeneration of the bone from the periosteum which has been saved. In the adult, amputa- tion offers greater advantages. I can give here only general rules. Everything depends upon the import- ance of the diseased bone, and upon the orthopaedic or functional result which may be obtained by saving it. Total ablation of a femur or of a humerus ought never to be undertaken except after failure of multiplied trephining of "the bone, or when the sub-periosteal and intra-medullary lesions are such that the whole of the bone is certainly destined to necrosis. And even in the latter case, one ought to try first to put an end to the septic complications by local disinfection, by means of chloride of zinc or other metallic salts suited for coagulating the contents of the medullary canal, or for preventing all subsequent decomposition. By permitting the bone thus rendered aseptic to detach itself, its regeneration is better provided for than by removing it at once. It is very rare to have to remove the whole of a bone. Usually when both terminal joints are affected, the infectious state is so well marked that it contra-indicates any operation. Bockenheimer1 successfully removed the whole of the femur from one joint to the other. I have never had occa- sion to do an operation like this. The cases to which the method of sub- periosteal extraction is specially applicable are those in which a part of the diaphysis is affected, with one of the corresponding epiphyses ; that is to say, the cases in which there is suppuration of one articulation, and in which this is accompanied by osteo-myelitis of a greater or less length of the bone. When inflammation has started in an epiphysis, it remains limited to it for some time, or else speedily invades the corresponding joint, according to the relations of the particular epiphysis with the articular cavity. There are some epiphyseal inflammations which cannot exist without concomitant arthritis, as in the head of the femur or radius; there are others which may remain some time without provoking arthritis, as in the lower end of the femur, the epiphyses of the tibia, etc. ; these epiphyses are partly extra- synovial and partly intra-synovial. According as the inflammation begins 1 Deutsch. med. Woclienschrift, Nos. 50 und 51, 1878.