296 URINARY CALCULUS. surgically without causing incontinence, may be instanced a case recorded by W. F. Atlee.1 The patient was an old woman of 73 ; the urethra was rapidly dilated, and a hard stone weighing 220 grains, 3T^ X 2T95 inches in circumference, was extracted ; no in- continence of urine followed. Stone in the female bladder may prove an obstacle to parturition. Life, two lives at once, have been sacrificed from this cause. Threlfall2 records a case where the existence of stone was not suspected before labor commenced, nor diagnosticated until after death, when the calculus was removed and found to weigh 6 ounces 5 drachms 34 grains, and to be 3§ inches long, 2| broad, 2£ thick. A more fortunate case, quoted by Poland3 from Velpeau, is one in which a stone weighing 9^ ounces was extracted from a woman in the tourth month of pregnancy with a successful result, the woman going on afterwards to a happy deliverance at term. Ilugenberger’s4 collection of twenty-three cases of calculus occurring during pregnancy is very instructive. In four of these the stone was removed during the early months of pregnancy. In seven the patient passed the stone spon- taneously, often with serious after-effect. Coulson5 records a personal case in which the stone had a hair-pin for a nucleus. The stone was raised above the pubis, and the labor continued favorably. Two months afterwards the stone was removed by lithotrity and the hair-pin extracted. In Monoci’s6 case, vaginal lithotomy was performed after labor had commenced, and the woman was then delivered with forceps. Erichsen7 cites a case in which a large stone prevented parturition and necessitated craniotomy. Craniotomy was also resorted to in Threlfall’s case, already alluded to. The obvious course to pursue when stone complicates pregnancy, is to remove the calculus at the earliest possible period. If its existence is not made out until labor sets in, the stone should, if possible, be pushed above the brim of the pelvis, out of the way of the foetal head; such a course has the sanction of high authority (Smellie, Dubois, and others). If this cannot be done, the offending body must be removed, preferably by vaginal cystotomy. Treatment of Stone in the Female.—Cutting on the stone, the latter being seized by a finger passed above it through the vagina or (in a virgin) through the rectum, was the method first advised by Celsus, Rhazes, Albu- casis, and sometimes by Pare, practised with disastrous results by Frere Jacques, and soon abandoned as an unsurgieal and deadly method. Mari- anus Sanctus, Collot, and others advocated urethral cystotomy. After this may be mentioned the French vestibular operation devised by Lisfranc, which was very rarely practised, and which has been uniformly condemned ; and then the various operations of incising the urethra, dilating the urethra, lithotrity, vesico-vaginal lithotomy, and the supra-pubic section. At the present day but three methods retain a position of general approval, namely, (1) dilatation of the urethra for small stones, (2) litholapaxy for larger ones, unless it is desired to drain the bladder subsequently in the case of pliosphatic calculi, when (3) vesico-vaginal lithotomy is the favorite. A few words will suffice to dispose of the other methods, before taking up these three operations of choice. Urethral Lithotomy.—The urethra has been cut below, above, laterally, 1 Trans. Coll. Phys. Pliila,, N. S., vol. iv. p. 368. s Edinburgh Med. and Surg. Journ., vol. xxxi. p. 56. 1829. 3 Art. Urinary Calculi and Lithotomy. Holmes’s System of Surgery, 2d edit., vol. iv. p. 1090. 4 Volkmann’s Sammlung klinisclier Vortrage, No. 88, S. 660. 5 Op. cit., p. 517. ® Med. Times and Gaz., vol. i. p. 356. 1858. 7 Referred to by Coulson (op. cit., p. 517J.