HEMORRHOIDS. 133 doubtful death. In this case the patient, who was old and very bronchitic, succumbed in 36 hours after the application of the ligature, from acute pneu- monia. The “ post hoc” here should not 1 think be considered the “ propter hoc,” but I record the case. In over 500 cases treated by crushing, I have not had one death from any cause whatever. I will pass on to dilatation of the anal sphincters, so strongly advocated by Messrs. Yerneuil, Fontan, Panas, Gosselin, and Monod. The method is as follows: The patient being fully under the influence of an anaesthetic, the surgeon inserts both thumbs into the rectum and dilates gradually, first in the antero-posterior and afterwards in the opposite direction, using an amount of force sufficient to overcome spasm. He continues to manipulate the sphinc- ters until the muscles feel reduced to a thoroughly pulpy condition, so that he can easily insert his whole hand and even draw it out as a fist. The result is that paralysis of the sphincters is fully induced, and this condition will last certainly for four or five days, and possibly for even more. The patient must be kept recumbent for about a week. In all my operations for internal hemorrhoids I invariably make dilatation a prelude to whatever else I do. This I do for two reasons: first, the rectum is thus rendered so patent that all disease can be seen and dealt with by knife, scissors, or crusher, without making any undue traction on the part; second, all spasm is done away with, and the great element in all such operations, viz., pain, is reduced to the minimum. The removal of piles by the screw-crusher is in my judgment a very valu- able operation. Very safe as regards hemorrhage, and almost painless, the recovery is more rapid than is effected by most other methods. Mr. George Pollock was, as far as I know, the first to describe and practise the operation by means of a powerful crushing apparatus, and his success was very great; but when I came to try this plan, I found that the instrument he used, which was one designed by Mr. Ben ham, like a large pair of pincers, was very defective ; it was too large, heavy, and clumsy, and did not after all, in severe cases, make enough pressure to insure the thorough destruction of the base of the hemorrhoid. My son, Mr. Herbert W. Allingham, then designed for me an instrument on a totally different principle; it was small, light, and easy of adaptation to the pile, and its power was enormous, being worked by direct screw action and not by lever movement, as in Mr. Benham’s pincers. After many trials, Messrs. Krolme & Sesemann, of Lon- don, made me a perfect instrument, which I use with much satisfaction and great success. The crusher is made of solid steel, forming an open square at one end, between the sides of which a second piece of steel slides up and down. The bar is connected with a powerful screw, which drives it firmly home against the distal end Of the square, first by a sliding, and lastly by a screwing motion, and thus exerts a great crushing power from which the hemorrhoid cannot escape. By removing a pin, the screw and piston can be easily taken out for the purpose of cleaning. (Fig. 1195.) To aid in the adjustment of the crusher, the hemorrhoid is seized with volsella forceps (Fig. 1196) and drawn through the open square of the instrument. Treatment of Internal Piles by Ligature.—Although I now almost invari- ably employ the crushing operation, there are still some cases for which I elect ligature: those, for instance, in which the hemorrhoids form a continuous ring with no division into lobes. In these cases the crushing operation has drawbacks. At the sides of the crusher, hemorrhage may occur from laceration of the adjacent portion of the hemorrhoid ; the part crushed is not likely to bleed more than any other crushed hemorrhoid,