FOREIGN BODIES IN THE BLADDER. 333 In attempting the removal of inflexible cylindrical bodies from the bladder with the lithotrite, the difficulty is due mainly to the fact that they are generally seized transversely to their long axis, so rendering extraction by this method impossible. To provide against this, MM. Robert and Collin have devised an extractor (Fig. 1281) having the blades so arranged that when a solid body of this Fig. 1281. Robert and Collin’s instrument for removing' foreign bodies from the bladder. kind is seized, its direction is made to correspond with that of the instru- ment as shown in the figure. In the absence of such an instrument, it must not be forgotten that much may be done to favor the possibility of extracting an inelastic cylindrical body with the ordinary lithotrite, provided that this be systematically used with the object of arriving at one or other extremity. In this way I succeeded in withdrawing a pencil-case three and a half inches- long, from the bladder of a patient who alleged that it had been passed down the urethra on the previous night, whilst he was in a state of intoxica- tion, by a woman of the town. He recovered without a bad symptom.1 Lithotrity has been employed for the removal of foreign bodies together with the incrustations which have formed upon them. In selecting this method, regard must be had to the probability of the foreign body being of such a nature as to be removable in this way. I know of this procedure having to be abdandoned for lithotomy, in a case where the nucleus turned out to be a hair-pin, in which the blades of the lithotrite had become entangled. When there is no other alternative, lithotomy will be resorted to ; this operation has on many occasions, under these circumstances, been suc- cessfully practised. A case is recorded by Mr. J. W. Baker, of Derby, in which a piece of bougie remained in the bladder for five years, and was then removed, encrusted with phosphates, by lithotomy.2 The female bladder is also occasionally found to contain various foreign bodies ; of these the ordinary hair-pin is perhaps the most common. On account of its two prongs and shape it is not always easy of extraction. In a case of this kind which I have recorded,3 there was some tumefaction to the left of the symphysis pubis as if an abscess was impending. It is probable that the pin might have been expelled in this way had not its removal been effected by surgical interference. As in cases of stone, opera- tions on the female bladder, where the urethra is incised, are apt to be fol- lowed by permanent incontinence of urine; rapid dilatation of the canal should be employed in preference whenever it is practicable. In regard to the nature of the concretion found on foreign bodies in the bladder, it may be said that any substance other than the earthy phosphates, is extremely rare. 1 Op. cit. p. 185. 2 British Medical Journal, Dec. 5, 1874. 3 Op cit. p. 189.