936 SCROFULO-TUBERCULOUS AND OTHER STRUCTURAL DISEASES OF BONES. me that we may here distinguish two sorts of cases. Either the sequestrum is compact, hard, and isolated, in a cavity the walls of which are sclerosed and eburnated—all these circumstances indicating an effort of nature, which is very near conclusion, toward a cure—or the sequestrum is vascular, spongy, and united by fungous growths to walls which are not sclerosed, but rarefied, and which are themselves affected by the same process which has given rise to the sequestrum. In the first case cauterization is useless ; the process is going on to spontaneous recovery; as soon as the sequestrum is removed, granu- lations of a healthy type will appear, and will more or less fill the cavity. The peripheral hyperostosis will diminish by absorption, by hardening of the connective tissue of the large canals of Havers, and by condensation of the hone-tissue. In the second case the process is not yet circumscribed, it is extending, it invades without intermission the bone-substance which surrounds the original seat of disease. Here cauterization ought to follow the extrac- tion of the sequestrum; but it is necessary to scoop out the cavity before- hand, removing with the sharp curette, or with the gouge, the infiltrated bony walls, until healthy tissue is reached. The bloodless method of Esmarch, while it facilitates this operation, sometimes makes it hard to distinguish healthy tissue from tissue which is beginning to be diseased. M. Ollier gives it as a practical rule, to limit ablation to the parts which are clearly altered. “ It is best to stop as soon as there is no more pus infiltrated in the areolae of the medulla ; it is best to leave not only that which is perfectly healthy, but also that which is capable of becoming so; parts which are simply rarefied will reorganize under the influence of the healthy irritation which follows the operation.”1 In such a case, cauterization with the red-hot iron would be a useful adju- vant to gouging, as an irritant and as a parasiticide. Iodoform also will render marked service. There may be placed in the cavity of the bone an iodoform-gauze tent, such as is used by Mosetig, or a bag of carbolized gauze filled with a variable quantity of iodoform. One may also he content with powdering the walls and the bottom of the cavity with pulverized iodoform. I have never seen an accident caused by this substance. In case the tubercu- lous osteopathy is superficial and has not given rise to the formation of a sequestral cavity, scraping with the gouge, with the elevator, or with the sharp spoon, will usually suffice. According to the importance of the cases, these measures may be associated with cauterization. I have said, in speak- ing of ossifiuent abscesses, that it is sometimes possible, in one and the same sitting, to scrape out the superficial tuberculous osteopathy, and to extirpate, or destroy by tearing off, the sac which had collected the products of tuber- culous solution and of eliminative suppuration. (d) Resection or complete ablation of the diseased bone; (e) Amputation of the limb.—When the tuberculous osteopathy is in the diaphysis, gouging will suffice in the majority of cases, and there can only very exceptionally be a question of lateral resection, or of total resection of a segment of the bony cylinder. Of course the periosteum should be preserved, in order to secure reproduction of part of the removed bone, by the periosteum or by ossifi- able medulla, derived either from the canals of Havers or from the medul- lary canal of the cut surfaces of the bone. When the osteopathy is in the epiphysis, the problem of exseresis will re- ceive a different solution in different cases. When the joint is not involved, when the osteitis, although in the epiphysis, is still covered by the articular cartilage, we may now, with the dressings of Lister, subject these centres of osteopathy to gouging. The most ordinary prudence will indicate, in such 1 Carie (loc. cit.).