130 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF TIIE RECTUM. the surgeon that they go regularly to stool every morning, and only on cross- questioning them will he elicit the fact that, although the bowels may diur- nally respond to the call of nature, their action still leaves much to be desired, and at the best is very protracted and attended with violent straining and loss of blood. A useful question to ask these patients is, “ You go to stool every morning, you say ; how long do you remain there?” In old-standing cases with protrusion, there is frequently a difficulty in retaining wind or loose motions; this is partly due to relaxation and weak- ness of the sphincter, partly to the loss of acute sensitiveness of the mucous membrane at the lower part of ttte rectum. This sensibility in the healthy subject gives timely warning to the sphincter ani to contract, when necessary. Before describing the modes of operating which I employ, I may say a few words as to the eases which in my opinion are not well suited for operative interference. The older I get the more convinced do I become that the only really reliable way of treating hemorrhoids is to remove them; the only exception I would make, and that is a very partial one, is in those cases in which, together with hemorrhoids, there is found an ante-flexed or retro- flexed uterus. Here, I would say, the uterine displacement should he first corrected, and then the surgeon should use his judgment, being of course influenced by the urgency of the case and other considerations, as to whether he will operate or not. Even if the wounds heal satisfactorily, the distressing symptoms, bearing down, etc., may continue as before the removal of the piles. So, too, when there are vesical' complications, the wounds heal slowly, and with a tendency to ulceration; and when they have at last healed, the patient, as far as his symptoms are concerned, is not much, if at all, improved. A question often put by the patient to his surgeon is, “If I have my hemorrhoids removed now, will they return ?” This query is, in my opinion, best answered in the following way : “ If after the operation you will follow the few simple rules of life which I shall give you, you may rely upon it that there will be no return of your hemorrhoids ; but if you give full play to the causes which produced them before, there may be such a return.” But I am bound to say that, in my own practice, the cases in which I have operated a second time for hemorrhoids have been so few that I could count them on my fingers. As the result of my experience I may safely say that the tendency to the fresh formation of hemorrhoids has been greatly overrated, and that if patients, after operation, will but attend to their bowels and live simply and rationally, with due regard to the necessity of taking exercise regularly, they need never fear a return of their old trouble. An exception may be made with regard to patients living in tropical climates. Unless great abstinence from alcohol be observed, piles will return. And now as regards the operation: The night before, and in some cases in which the liver is congested, for two or three nights before, I order a couple of pills, six grains of the pill of colocynth and hyoscyamus, and two of blue pill, to be taken; and the next morning, an hour before the operation, a copious soap-and-water enema should be administered, to make sure that the bowels are empty. I prefer operating early in the morning, as then the patient has the whole day before him in which to shake off the unpleasant effects of the ether and get rid of all pain, and as a consequence a quiet night will be insured, and refreshing sleep. The different modes of operating are briefly the following: I shall describe only those fully which I myself employ or think well of:— 1. Excision with knife or scissors.