252 URINARY CALCULUS. the prevailing method of extracting stones from the bladder during twenty centuries. The description of the Indian method of cutting on the gripe is essentially the same as that of Celsus. The latter only advises the operation for child- ren between the ages of nine and fourteen ; afterwards it was used for patients of all ages, but it was recognized that the older the patient the more uncertain was the closure of the wound. Albucasis formulates this conclusion, and says that under fourteen years healing is easy. The rude manoeuvre of cutting on the gripe consisted essentially of three steps. First, some effort was made to cause the stone to fall toward the neck of the bladder by striking the shoulders, shaking the patient, and pressing upon or stroking the abdomen which had been previously greased. The second step was to hook the stone down by putting one or two fingers into the anus, and assisting the descent by tbe pressure of the hand of an assistant upon the hypoga&trium. Meantime, the patient was held firmly by tbe arms and legs upon the lap of a strong assistant (or two of them, sometimes with one more at each side to steady the group), leaning back upon his breast. An incision wTas now made, generally with a broad knife cutting at both edges near the point, upon the stone as it bulged in the perineum. This incision, as described by Celsus, was usually curved transversely above the anus, each horn of the incision looking outwards and backwards. But incisions of other shapes were also made transversely, curving upwards, and on either side, until finally it came to be the proper thing to make the incision upon the left of the raphe, curving outwards, the convexity of the incision looking towards the anus. Velpeau ascribes to Antyllus the left lateral incision. The third manoeuvre was the extraction of the stone. Sometimes it was forced out by the pressure of the fingers behind it, but more often it had to be extracted with hooks, forceps, and the like, or cut with some special instrument to facilitate its removal—as practised by Ammonius. Various means of washing out the bladder and cleaning it of any remaining debris were afterwards introduced. This operation must have counted many successes, for it continued to thrive, passing through the hands of travelling specialists to find champions for its defence long after its more surgical rival, the Marian operation, had appeared upon the field. The neck of the bladder was probably not often cut into at all by most of the surgeons who cut upon the gripe, although it was the aim of the deep incision, as recommended by Celsus, to cut across tbe neck of tbe bladder transversely. Tbe bladder-wall itself and the back part of the pros- tate were incised by most operators, and the seminal vesicle and ducts of the left side were very constantly cut through. There crew to be a prejudice against cutting into or across the middle line of the integument, or approaching the rectum—a prejudice which continued active after the introduction of the grooved staff1 by Marianus—on the ground that if the raphe were cut it would not heal, by reason of tbe callosity of the tissues there, and that fistula would be quite certain to follow; and that if the hemorrhoidal vessels near the anus were opened, very dangerous or fatal bleeding would result. The apparatus major, the conception of which has been ascribed to the Italian surgeons Battista da Rapallo and Joannes de Romanis, was first pub- licly described by the pupil of the last-named surgeon, Marianus Sanctus, in 1524. Whereas almost no instruments had been required for the older opera- tion, this one was burdened down by machinery. The essential advance made by this operation, from a surgical standpoint, was the introduction of the itinerarium—the guide to the neck of the bladder—the grooved staff' upon which the incision was to be made.