INJURIES AND DISEASES OF TIIE FEMALE GENITALS. 734 Of 105 cases of vaginal or supra-vaginal operation, 13 proved fatal, or 12.3 per cent.; of eight operated on by Freund's method (abdominal extirpation of the uterus), 5 were fatal, or 62 per cent.; of 32 cases of vaginal extirpation of the uterus, 9 were fatal, or 26 per cent. Of 47 women surviving vaginal or supra-vaginal amputation, 11, or 23 per cent., remained well after two years, while in 47 per cent, the disease had returned, and the condition of 30 per cent, was unknown. His results have been better with section followed by the actual cautery. Of 13 women thus operated on, 1 died, while at the end of two years, 5, or 42 per cent, of the remaining 12, continued well. Pawlik, whose statistics are also given by Sehroeder, has had good results by using the galvano-cautery. Baker makes a funnel-shaped exsection of the cervix, and then applies the actual cautery. The late Marion Sims exsected with knife or scissors all the diseased tissue, then applied a tampon of cotton- wool, rendered styptic by being squeezed out of a solution of subsulphate of iron, one part of the salt to three of water, after which he thoroughly tam- poned the vagina. After four or five days, the entire tampon having been removed, the conical excavation of the cervix was filled with small pieces of cotton-wool wet in a solution of chloride of zinc, five drachms of the chloride to one ounce of distilled water; the upper part of the vagina was then tam- poned with cotton-wool saturated with a solution of bicarbonate of sodium. The vaginal packing was removed within two or three days, but that in the cervical cavity remained for four or five days. Extirpation of the uterus for cancer is being so frequently done, at least abroad, and is, if not beginning to be more generally received as a legitimate operation, at least so much less decried than it was at first, that the vaginal method of its performance will be given.1 Freund’s method, or the removal by abdominal section, is attended by such great mortality that it is gener- ally rejected unless in cases where the uterus is too large for ready removal through the vagina. Where radical treatment, whether it be cervical amputation or uterine extirpation, is not resorted to, much may be done for the comfort of the patient, and probably for the prolongation of her life, by removing as far as possible the diseased tissue by means of the ecraseur, galvano-cautery, or scissors, and then by the use of Simon’s spoons. After this instrumental removal, the actual cautery may be applied, and then the excavated part may be filled with small tampons of cotton-wool which have been squeezed out of a solution of one part of bromine, two of iodine, three of crystallized carbolic acid, and four of alcohol, the adjacent parts of the vagina being protected from injury by a roll of cotton-wool dipped in a saturated solution of bicar- bonate of sodium, and a similar tampon being applied directly beneath the caustic tampons in the cervix. Temporarily the disease is thus arrested, the hemorrhages and offensive discharges for a time cease, and the patient im- proves in condition. As soon as the growth reappears, the treatment may be repeated. The treatment of the special symptoms of uterine cancer is important. The offensive odor of the discharge may be in large degree prevented by the use of injections of a solution of carbolic or salicylic acid, or of the potassic per- manganate, by iodoform vaginal suppositories, or by thymol. Hemorrhage is to be met by the use of warm astringent injections; cold injections usually are very painful in cases of uterine cancer. Sehroeder recommends pouring a solution of the chloride of iron through a milk-glass speculum directly upon the diseased mass. Slight hemorrhages may be arrested by vaginal supposi- tories of tannin. The pain will ultimately demand opium in some form, See page 740, infra.