474 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF TIIE URETHRA. ness of the mucous membrane, and so in rendering the passage of bougies possible. In other cases it is necessary to give up dilatation, and to have recourse either to divulsion or to internal urethrotomy, or, finally, to external urethrotomy upon a guide. The first two methods present almost analogous indications ; nevertheless, internal urethrotomy seems to be especially suited to very tight fibrous stric- tures, and to those in which the mucous membrane presents folds and ridges which yield to the pressure exerted by bougies, only to reappear immediately afterwards, and the disappearance of which divulsion is unable to effect. It is customary to contrast internal urethrotomy and divulsion with one another, and to compare the advantages and disadvantages of these two operations. Without entering into a discussion which would lead me much too far, and while disposed to accord equal confidence to these two operations, I acknowledge that, from my own practice, I am inclined to prefer dividsiov. In support of this entirely personal opinion, I will limit myself to citing the statistics of Lhirondel,1 according to which divulsion is followed by less serious accidents and causes less frequently the death of those operated upon. External urethrotomy upon a guide is indicated only in very complicated cases, in which there exists induration of the whole thickness of the perineal tissues, accompanied by multiple fistula; constantly giving passage to urine. In the gravest cases there may be added to this excision of the stricture. We have supposed up to this point that the stricture could be passed. When it is impassable, the conduct of the surgeon should vary, and it is necessary to distinguish the cases in which the patient can still urinate from those in which there exists retention of urine. When the patient urinates, it is well not to be in too great haste. Often,. bjT means of careand perseverance one succeeds, with the help of the different artifices which I have indicated, in getting through a stricture which one at first despaired of passing. When all the best-made attempts to pass a deli- cate bougie have remained fruitless, one may think either of forced catheter- ization, or of external urethrotomy without a guide, always giving the preference to the latter. When there is complete retention of urine, the indication becomes urgent, and it is necessary either to puncture the bladder or to practise urethrotomy 'without a guide. Of these two operations the first is much the least grave, and the easiest to execute. I will add that it is very often possible, in the first days which follow puncture, to pass the stricture; which makes it possible to treat the latter by simple dilatation. Suprapubic puncture should always be practised, either with a capillary trocar or with a large, curved trocar. In the first case, this puncture is repeated several times a day ; in the second case the canula of the trocar is left in, and this mode of procedure has the advantage of permitting the performance of retrograde catheterization afterwards, in the way that I have described. In some cases, however, external urethrotomy imposes itself on one, so to speak; when, for example, a rupture of the urethra has taken place, followed by urinary infiltration and retraction of the two ends of the canal. [Another plan is to open the urethra behind the stricture by what is known as Cock’s method,2 a variety of the old boutonniere ; the stricture can afterwards be dealt with in any way that may seem desirable.] Spasm of the Urethra ; Spasmodic Stricture of the Urethra.— Spasm of the urethra consists in a transient, and almost always painful, contracture 1 Parallele entre la divulsion et l’uretlirotomie interne. Tlifese. Paris, 1872. 2 See p. 413, supra.