623 TUBERCULOUS AND SCROFULOUS DISEASE OF TESTIS. unaltered in size. I regret to say that I did not see the poor young fellow again alive, for he died in October under the care of one of my colleagues, of acute tubercular meningitis, after a very short illness. The little bag or cyst of condensed cellular tissue was connected by a narrower neck with the vas deferens, which was much thickened, and which contained a white, softish, caseous material. Its wall had given way at the point where the neck of the sac communicated with the interior of the tube, and had allowed the intra-tubular contents to escape. It is fair to ask whether the morbid material confined in the tube and cyst may not have given rise to the attack of acute tuberculosis, to which the young patient fell a victim. The tubercular deposits displace the tubuli seminiferi, which are discharged as shreds when softening and suppuration take place. The pus at times, owing to the absorption of the watery portion, becomes inspissated, and in some instances cretaceous masses are found. The abscesses discharge their contents through the ulcerated scrotum, through the perineum, or into the urethra. Fig- 1374. Granulations form at the circumference of the deposit. The discharge is very persistent, and gives rise to fistulie. At times a benign fungus sprouts forth; at other times the gland wastes, and the parts contract and finally heal. Tubercular disease is most common in young adults, and generally com- mences by the formation of an indolent swelling of the globus major of the epididymis. The deposit gradually increases in size, and until the skin is affected is not painful. The testicle may feel uniformly enlarged. When the skin is adherent it becomes thin and purplish, and finally gives way, but a fungus testis does not often follow. When the case is associated with tubercle of the vesiculie seminales, these may be felt as indurated swellings by the fino;er introduced into the rectum, thorough examination must be A thorough examination must made of the lungs, and care taken to ascertain the presence or absence of syphilis. Prostatitis and cystitis are occasionally an early sign of tubercu- losis ; there is an obstinate gleet, which is painless, but attended at times by difficult micturition and spasm of the bladder. A sound will detect a tender spot, and at times the irritation may cause orchitis, or erections and nocturnal pollutions. In one-third of the cases Tubercular disease of the testis; the yellow- strumous material is deposited with tolerable regular, ity throughout the organ. there are small hydroceles. Palpation detects the changes in the epididymis, vesicuke seminales, and prostate, but those in the testicle, though hard to dis- cover, may be the first to occur. Diagnosis.—Syphilitic sarcocele may be bilateral, and is constantly asso- ciated with hydrocele; but there are no lesions of the prostate. Hard knobs or cartilaginous plates may be felt in the tunica albuginea. Specific treatment is highly successful. Malignant disease of the testis is rapid in its progress, attains a large size, and after a time gives rise to pain, and to enlargement of the cord, scrotal veins, and lymphatic glands; it is unaffected by treatment.