590 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. operation, and gives the details of three cases. The first two were very satis- factory, but the third case unfortunately went wrong:— The patient, a lad, had a double varicocele, that on the left side being of enormous size, the left half of the scrotum hanging three inches below that of the right side, and the dilated veins extending up to the external abdominal ring. Strict antiseptic pre- cautions being adopted, the varicose veins were exposed and removed between double ligatures. Owing to the large size of the varicocele, three bundles of veins were removed, and even then a large number appeared to have been left, the tumor being about a quarter of its former size. Throughout the operation the vas deferens and the imme- diately surrounding tissues were held apart by a reliable assistant, and were not en- croached upon. On the eighth day it became apparent that too many veins had been tied, as the lower half of the testis presented itself at the lower part of the wound, evidently in a state of gangrene; this was eventually removed, and the dressings were never foul; the temperature was rarely above 99° F.,and no constitutional disturbance was present from first, to last. This operation was carried out precisely as in the other two cases which had given excellent results ; the vas deferens and the spermatic artery (which runs in its immediate vicinity) were certainly not interfered with. The testicle itself and the tunica vaginalis were not touched. Nor, as above stated, did it appear at the close of the operation that too many veins had been removed ; such, however, must have been the case. Surgeons are much indebted to Mr. Jacobson for his candid and lucid account of this case. I have not myself performed this operation, preferring the sub- cutaneous method, but from what I have seen of it in the practice of others, I consider that it is a more difficult and uncertain operation than that of sub- cutaneous ligature. It is hard to determine, as this case shows, the exact number of veins to be destroyed, as they are at the time collapsed. It is doubt- less true that, as a rule, the spermatic artery runs with the vas deferens, and is removed from danger, yet if inversion of the testicle were present, or if the packet of vessels were twisted round and the neighboring parts disturbed, it might run a risk of being cut. In one case operated on by a skilful sur- geon, hemon’hage occurred a few hours afterwards ; much blood was ext-rava- sated into the cellular tissue, and the cure was delayed in consequence. After other methods accidents are rare, and the cure is complete and lasting. There would be less danger of removing too many veins if the surgeon were to iso- late those selected for removal by passing a harelip pin or a short silver wire under them before proceeding to operate. Excision of Scrotum.—Sir A. Cooper was in the habit of treating cases of varicocele by removing a portion of the scrotal skin from the affected side. An effort was made, by making a clean cut and bringing the margins of the wound accurately together, to obtain union by first intention. He reported some cases as having turned out favorably at the time; but several of them, when seen after the lapse of years by other surgeons, had relapsed. When we consider the repair that takes place after extensive sloughing of the scro- tum, and the elasticity of its tissues, we cannot be surprised at the recurrence. The operation is uncertain, as primary union is of consequence, and does not always take place; and if suppuration follows, then pyaemia and other acci- dents are liable to occur. The operation may now be performed antiseptically, suppuration prevented, and the chances of primary union rendered more certain. The requisite amount of skin is to be pinched up on the right or left side of the median raphe of the scrotum, as the case may be, and placed between the blades of a suitable clamp; all tissue in front of the clamp is then removed, bleeding points are carefully twisted or tied with fine carbolized catgut and the margins of the wound are accurately brought together with numerous silver-wire sutures. The wound is then closed with a suitable antiseptic dressing, and the part carefully supported.