1080 ORTHOPAEDIC SURGERY. displaced vertebrae, and prevent them from becoming more removed from the mesial line. Very many different kinds of spinal support have been invented for this purpose, but to describe these would occupy too much space, and I shall only allude to those which practical experience has shown to be effi- cient in obtaining tbe desired result. The qualities required in a spinal sup- port are the maximum of strength with the minimum of weight; rigidity is of all things essential, and the difficulty is to obtain this without making the instrument so heavy that it is an incumbrance rather than a support to the patient. It is also necessary that the appliance should be so adjusted as to produce pressure at the seats of curvature, and be capable of readjust- ment as the deformity becomes lessened. A spinal instrument which shall fulfil the above conditions must consist of two portions—one a rigid frame- work which can be firmly attached to the body, and the other of movable parts to exert pressure upon the displaced vertebrae. The instrument illustrated in Fig. 1509 is commonly called the lever support, and is the best form of appliance to use when the surgeon is able to see the patient frequently. The framework of this support consists of a pelvic band which is so curved that it fits to the pelvis (a point which ^ importance), and to which are attached on each side lateral supports terminating in crutches; steel bands, passing over the hips, connect the belt and lateral bars, which they hold firmly together, thus giving rigidity, and at the same time permitting very light steel to be used in their manufacture. A light thoracic and abdominal belt, which laces down the front, completes the framework of the support. The acting part of the instrument consists of levers, to which are attached plates which are care- fully fitted to the curved portions of the spine, and which are at the same time made sufficiently large to give lateral support to the body. In the con- dition of curvature usually met with, that of a dorsal curve to the right side and a lumbar curve to the left, the upper plate is attached to the right side and made long enough to extend over the whole length of the curve, and broad enough to cover the posterior surfaces of the corresponding ribs; the lower plate is fixed to the left lever, and is so fitted as to press upon the displaced lumbar vertebrte. The levers to which the plates are attached are supplied with rack and pinion movements, by which the plates can be moved in a forward direction, or laterally, as may be required. In using the lever instrument, care must be taken not to exert too much force* but merely to make firm pressure with the plates upon the displaced vertebrae; a common error in fitting this appliance consists in making the side crutches too long, for the purpose of pushing up the shoulders and thus endeavoring to produce extension of the spine. Of course, no amount of elevation of the shoulders will have any effect upon the spinal column, and the only use of the crutches is to afford lateral support to the instrument, and to give counter-resistance in front to the pressure of the lever plates. Spinal couches, which have been already referred to as one form of the mechanical appliances used in the treatment of lateral curvature, are not accurately is of great Fig. 1509. Spinal support ■with levers and plates.