565 HYDROCELE. If inflammation were to attack the tunica vaginalis, a cure would result, but not otherwise. Sir A. Cooper performed the usual operation for hydrocele in a case where the sac had been ruptured. The ‘palliative treatment of hydrocele, by tapping, is adopted daily, and is, as a rule, free from danger. The operation is such a simple one, that the accidents which do occur usually arise from want of care. Having ascer- tained that the swelling is a hydrocele, the surgeon places the patient with his back to the wall, or on a couch, and, having carefully determined by palpation that the swelling fluctuates at the point selected for punc- ture, and that the testicle is absent from that spot, he makes the swelling very tense by placing it in the palm of his left hand and grasping it firmly, making his fingers and thumb encircle the spermatic cord, and then thrusts a sharp, well-oiled trocar and accurately-fitting canula obliquely upwards into the swelling, taking care to avoid any vein; as soon as it has entered the tunica vaginalis, the trocar is withdrawn, and the canula is pushed in up to its guard. The most convenient spot for the puncture is at the front part of the hydrocele, a little below its centre. The palliative treat- ment of tapping is most applicable to large hydroceles, in order to reduce their bulk prior to the radical cure, and to hydroceles occurring in old men, which may be tapped periodically. After the operation, the patient, if old and feeble, should remain quiet in order to avoid accidents. Sir A. Cooper lost an old gentleman from gangrene of the scrotum after this simple opera- tion, because he did not keep quiet. Mr. Green also lost an aged patient. Ho dressing is required for the wound, which heals in a few hours. It is safer to evacuate the fluid with a trocar and canula than with a lancet, which is liable to wound a vessel. Acupuncture has been used to evacuate a hydro- cele; the fluid is effused into the cellular tissue, where it causes a swelling, but soon becomes absorbed. The hydrocele re-forms, but more slowly, it is said, than after tapping. Radical Cure of Hydrocele.—(1) Incision is an old plan of treatment; the hy- drocele is completely laid open by an incision, and the testicle is exposed ; suppuration soon takes place, and is encouraged by stuffing the wound with lint, or by dusting the sac of the tunica vaginalis with flour. Severe local and general symptoms follow the operation. (2) Excision has been performed in some cases in which it has been found that simple incision of the hydrocele has^ failed to cure. Sir A. Cooper says of both methods that they are too dangerous and too cruel for so trifling an inconvenience. (3) Caustics used to be employed in some cases ; potassa fusa was applied to the front of the scrotum, till an eschar the size of a sixpence was formed. This caused consolidation of the tissues around, and an opening in the tunica vaginalis ; inflammation and granulations followed, and joined the parts together. The remedy was found to be uncertain and dangerous to life, as a specimen in the Hunterian Museum demonstrates. (4) Tent and Seton.—Baron Larrey, having made an opening into the tunica vaginalis, used to leave in the cavity a gum-elastic catheter as a tent. Monro retained the canula in situ. Other foreign bodies have been introduced. The seton was much used by Mr. Pott. Having tapped the hydrocele with a trocar and canula, he withdrew the former and introduced through the latter a stylet four inches and a half long, with a triangular point at one end and an eye at the other, through which some threads of silk were passed. This stylet was thrust through the tissues from within outwards, and drawn out leaving behind it the seton. The tunica vaginalis and testicle became swollen in twenty-four hours; the seton was gradually removed, a few threads at a time, beginning about the tenth or twelfth day. Drs. Young