104 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE RECTUM. operation, the sinus being laid open on one side of the bowel, and left un- touched on the other. This mistake may generally be avoided by careful examination with the linger externally, as a hardness can be felt on both sides of the anus ; the patient will also sometimes give assistance by saying that he has felt something like a “ piece of wire” on both sides of the bowel. When the surgeon passes his finger into the bowel to search for the internal opening, he should never forget to carry it higher up, to see if the rectum be otherwise healthy ; he may find stricture, ulceration, or malignant disease coexistent. Without this precaution these conditions may be overlooked. Fistula may exist for years without causing much pain or inconvenience to the patient. I have met with many persons who had had rectal sinuses for ten years and upwards, and had never had anything done beyond the occasional passing of a probe when the external aperture had got blocked up, and when pain had been caused by the formation and retention of matter. When the tissues around the sinus become very dense, there may be for a long period an arrest of burrowing, but an attack of inflammation set up at any time will cause a fresh abscess. I am often anxiously asked by sufferers if a fistula can be cured without an operation. To this I reply, that I have seen fistuke of all kinds get well without treatment, but that these occurrences are quite excep- tions to the rule, and should not he depended upon ; still, if the fistula be sim- ple, and the patient be unwilling to submit to any operation, certain methods may fairly be tried. For the last few years I have been successful on many occasions in curing blind external, and even complete, fistulse, by means of carbolic acid and drainage-tubes. This mode of treatment offers, in my opinion, the best chance for the patient. I first dilate the outer opening of the fistula for a few days with a small portion of sea-tangle or sponge-tent. When the opening is large enough, I clean out the sinus well, and then rapidly run down to the end of it a small piece of wool saturated in strong carbolic acid, with ten per cent, of water. I mount this wool upon a stiff piece of wire set in a handle, and just roughened at the free end ; I then withdraw the wire and put in a drainage-tube, just large enough to fill the sinus, and keep it in ; the interior of the sinus is, by the acid, induced to granulate, and, if successful, it will be found, almost day by day, that a shorter drainage- tube will be required until the whole sinus is filled up. It may be neces- sary to apply the acid more than once, and to use other stimulants, such as friar’s balsam, solutions of sulphate of copper or nitrate of silver, etc. I have succeeded usually in some bad cases by scraping the walls of the sinus with a small curette of steel. I do not advise injecting the sinus; wool on a probe is a much better mode of medicating. Care should always he taken to keep the external opening well dilated. A perforated ivory collar-stud answers admirably in effecting this, the small hole allowing pus to dribble through. One practical point I would mention. The further the external opening is from the sphincter, the more likelihood is there that a sinus may heal. It is very important in these cases not to do any harm. The surgeon should always enjoin rest after a strong application, and watch that not too much inflammation be set up. It must be remembered that most of the so-called spontaneous cures are illusory, and that the disease returns in time, and the same may be said even of those in which treatment, short of division, has seemed effectual. In my opinion there is nothing equal to the division of the fistula, and getting it to fill up soundly from the bottom. Whilst describing the treatment of fistula without cutting, I must refer to the use of the elastic ligature, so valuable in cases in which the knife is contra-indicated. The advantages of the ligature are the following: There is little or no pain, during or after its use, and there is no bleeding—a manifest advantage in dealing with patients whose tissues bleed copiously on incision.