THE CAESAREAN SECTION AND ITS SUBSTITUTES. 774 the cervix with the elastic tubing used in Esmarch’s bloodless amputations before evacuating the organ. There was no loss of blood other than what escaped by the contraction of the uterus; the child was asphyxiated, but soon revived, and the cervix was dressed externally. The cervix being occluded, and its cavity containing pus, as was discovered on autopsy, the woman died of septic peritonitis on the sixth day. Manual compression as a substitute for the Esmarch apparatus was first employed by Dr. Leon Oppenheimer, of Wurzburg, Germany, on July 4, 1880. After emptying the uterus, he secured the cervix in the clamp of Sir T. Spencer Wells; the mother and child were saved. This plan of using manual compression after turning out the uterus, antedates the trial of the same process by Drs. BroOmall and A. II. Smith, of Philadelphia, by nearly three }’ears. Like the old Ciesarean operation, it is very essential to success that the- Porro modification should be performed early in labor, whilst the patient is in good condition and not prostrated by suffering ; or, if thought proper, before labor has commenced. As there is very little discharge from the cervix, it is not essential that it shall be more than pervious. The greatest success in hospital is where the women have been put under preparative treatment, to improve their general condition of health and fit them for the operation. The Muller method is of advantage where there is a putrid foetus in utero, and where there is danger from hemorrhage because of the placenta being located under the line of incision of the uterus. Dr. Godson, to escape cutting down upon the placenta in his operation, opened the uterus low down in front and tore it transversely with his fingers, making the opening according to the locality of Kehrer’s incision described on page 0c9. Effect of the Porro Mutilation upon the Subjects of Malacosteon.— Fortunately for the women of America, this is not one of their deforming diseases, and few of the obstetricians of our largest cities have seen a case even in a foreigner; but in some special localities of Europe, particularly in Belgium and Germany, it is a serious and fatal malady, not confined to women who have become mothers, but usually affecting only such, and particularly multiparse. To cure this disease, even in its milder forms, has long been the desire of the accoucheur; but all remedies failed until the operation of Dr. Porro opened the way for a more effective system of man- agement. Having learned indirectly that the operation of Prof. Josef Spath, of Vienna, performed on June 22, 1877, had cured his patient of her mala- costeon, I opened a correspondence in the summer of 1884 with the operators of all the Porro-Ctesarean sections that had resulted favorably in the cases of malacosteon subjects, and the answers to my letters make it highly probable that some cases at least of the disease may be cured by the operation of Battey, as modified by Lawson Tait. Dr. Fehling’s experience with three cases has at least decided him to perform this operation as a curative measure “ in a case without pregnancy, when the bone softening does not disappear after the delivery.” He writes of his three Porro cases, that the curative effect of the operation was quite perfect; that the disease in the patients operated upon in May, 1881, and March, 1882, “was very severe,” notwith- standing which, both were re-established in health ; and that the third, who was not so much diseased, but still had great difficulty in walking, was enabled to “walk perfectly well.” These patients were not allowed to nurse, as Dr. Feliling regards the arrest of the mammary drain as essential to entire success. One child died of pneumonia when about six months old, and the first and third, the former over three years old, were in good health at the time he wrote. Dr. Foehier, of Lyons, operated upon his patient on February 2,1879 she was a primipara of 83; and had since her recovery become able