1169 HISTORY OF SURGERY. speak of him as “ the obstetrician” (Cawabely). He lias been much reviled by some, whom it is to be feared have read him too superficially, as being at best a mere compiler, and withal a sort of literary crow, taking from whence he pleased without the fairness of even an acknowledgment. This is untrue, as we find many valuable things in his works which are his own, and not else- where seen in previous writers; and, moreover, that he has made no secret of his plan, which was to prepare a practical treatise without reference to the sources from which the materials were derived. His own words should spare him from the reproach of plagiarism :— While it would be extremely difficult, not to say impossible, to retain in the memory the general principles of the healing art, and all the particular means advised by the ancients, I have made this abridgment of what there is best of their writings. They are not my own conceptions which I propose, if exception be made of some details of observation noted in my practice ; but being versed in the reading of a number of excellent authors, and principally Oribasius, I have attempted, in imitation of him, to collect the cream of what others have said concerning the means of preserving health. This is certainly a modest avowal, and yet Paulas TEgineta was an author of more originality than either Oribasius or Aetius. Ilis sixth book has been considered by many, and not without reason, as the best body of surgical knowledge, previous to the revival of letters. Plere we find many things not elsewhere found in any surgical writings previous to his era. Paulus was himself a practical surgeon, bold and skilful, governed by experience and judgment, and not a mere servile follower of antecedent authority. Thus we find him questioning the methods of even Hippocrates and Galen, and often referring to his own personal experiences, and to the results of his cases and operations. He was a strong advocate of local blood-letting; he mentions but disap- proves of a three-bladed scarificator then in use, and also mentions cups of glass, brass, and horn. He resorted freely to arteriotomy. He opened deep- seated abscesses by caustics, and laid down careful rules for the perform- ance of paracentesis in the several varieties of dropsy. In lithotomy he made great advances on the restricted methods of Celsus. Instead of confin- ing the propriety of the operation to the age of puberty, that is, from nine to fourteen years of age; he approves of its performance at any period of life, saying: “ Of those cut for the stone, children to the age of fourteen are the best subjects for the operation, on account of the softness of their bodies ; old men are difficult to cure because ulcers of their bodies do not readily heal; and the intermediate ages have an intermediate chance of recovery.” Then follows a remark which is ingenious, though not confirmed by expe- rience : “ And again, those who have larger stones recover best because they have become habituated to the inflammation,” or vesical irritation, which the presence of the calculus occasions. Celsus directs that the incision should be made in the line of the perineal raphe, while Paulus says, “ we take the instrument called a lithotome, and between the anus and the testicles, not, however, in the middle of the perineum, but on one side, towards the left buttock, we make an oblique incision, cutting down direct upon the stone where it protrudes, so that the external incision may be wider, but the inter- nal not larger than just to allow the stone to fall through it.” He mentions a special forceps for the removal of the calculus ; when “ it does not start out itself, we must extract it with the forceps called the stone-extractor.” Paulus also extends the limits in operations for the radical cure of aneu- rism. While Aetius would advise that aneurisms of the arm alone should be treated by operation, Paulus includes those of the head and joints, excepting only those of the cervical, axillary, and inguinal regions. He is the first who vol. vi.—74