873 DIFFERENT CLINICAL FORMS OF SPONTANEOUS OSTEITIS. among which I will mention those of Lorinser, Bibra, Trelat, and Haltenhoff. At first there was some hesitancy in recognizing the special action of phos- phorus, and the phenomena were attributed to the impurity of the sub- stance (Dupasquier); hut the frequency of cases in match-factories con- vinced the different observers of the reality of the special action of the phos- phorus itself. It was found that the majority of the affected subjects had already caries of the teeth and concomitant alterations of the alveoli; and it was generally believed that the vapors of phosphorus acted on the bone only through the solutions of continuity produced by dental caries and the sup- purations to which it gave rise. But Trelat1 cited four cases in which the teeth were perfectly healthy when the symptoms began, and Haltenhoff reported afterwards2 a similar case. Bibra and Geist had previously en- deavored to produce this form of necrosis experimentally in animals, and had found, in rabbits which were made to live in an atmosphere filled with the vapor of phosphorus, that necrosis of the jaw-bones occurred only in those whose teeth had been broken or whose maxillary bones had been denuded. The action of phosphorus shows itself first in one or the other of the maxillary bones; in a single case Lorinser saw it begin in the malar bone. It is seen oftener in the lower than in the upper jaw. According to Trelat, in 1(37 cases the upper jaw was affected 74 times, and the lower jaw 93 times. The affection begins with pain in the teeth and a painful swelling of the jaw. Sometimes, according to the observations of Lailler, the bone is swollen before the pains in the teeth attract attention. Then the gums are red and swollen, and the patient notices bloody spitting, etc. Soon the swelling of the jaw increases, and abscesses open upon the gums. The patient is then temporarily relieved ; hut as the osteitis is eminently progressive, if the patient continues exposed to the vapors of phosphorus, the manifestations only grow worse. The teeth loosen and fall out; the breath is fetid; pus is spit in greater or less abundance ; the swelling of the face increases; and the patient presents symptoms varying with the progress of the inflammation to one or another region; the inflammation, starting from the maxillary, is pro- pagated to a neighboring bone (palatine, malar, vomer) and sometimes further —temporal bone (Trelat), occipital (Haltenhoff). This affection is serious because of its spreading course when the patient cannot immediately escape from the cause which has produced it. Nevertheless benign forms have often been observed (Lailler), certain patients, without quitting their work, getting rid of their sequestra as fast as they separated. When the osteitis has attacked a great extent of one of the maxillae, or several bones at once, it may become of great gravity because of the ceaseless absorption of toxic material which it causes. The patient poisons himself more and more by swallowing pus which as constantly decomposed by contact with the air and by mixture with food. To this poisoning he succumbs in the absence of opportune intervention. An important question in the study of phosphorus-osteitis, is that of the anatomical lesions which it produces. It has been asked if this osteitis is characterized by special lesions, and if a special anatomical form corresponds to the specific cause which produces it. From what I was able to observe at the time when I saw cases of phosphorus-osteitis, I believe that it has no special anatomical form, and I do not believe that, if confronted with a maxilla which had been removed by resection, or by a sequestrum of the same bone, it would be possible to affirm whether the lesion had been produced by plios- 1 Necrose phosphoree (Tlifese d’agregation). Paris, 1857. 2 La periostite et la necrose phosphorique (These). Zurich.