807 UTERINE TUMORS. Uterine Tumors. Leaving now the subject of ovarian growths, and before describing the surgical treatment for their relief, a brief outline will be given of such tumors of the uterus as are frequently met with in practice. These may be conveniently divided into:— I. Fibro-myomata, or uterine fibroids. II. Uterine fibro-cysts. III. Sarcomata. IV. Carcinomata. I. Uterine fibroids again are divided, clinically, into (1) submucous, (2) interstitial, and (3) subperitoneal uterine fibroids, which, although identical in their histological formation, produce different groups of symp- toms, and require entirely different treatment. Under the different synonyms of fibroma, fibrous tumor, myoma, myo- fibroma, fibroid tumor of the womb, is meant a growth, extremely frequent in occurrence, developed from or within the parenchyma of the uterus, essen- tially homologous with it, and consisting of mixed fibrous and muscular tissue. As the former of these elements is always in excess, the term “fibroma,” or fibroid tumor, is evidently more correct than “myoma,” as proposed by Virchow, and will be retained in this description. Whatever form the growth ultimately assumes, every uterine fibroid is originally interstitial; accidental development determines its remaining in this condition, or becoming submucous, or subperitoneal. In many cases it remains permanently enmeshed within the uterine wall, producing general and excessive hypertrophy of the neighboring parenchyma, persisting congestion of the womb, which nature tries to relieve by metror- rhagic flows, and displacement of the uterus toward the side on which its development has occurred. If by degrees it projects into the cavity, the more yielding mucous mem- brane offers no barrier to its progress; and it either remains sessile, or becomes pedunculated from constriction of its base, and constitutes the so- called fibrous polypus of the womb, which is somewhat rare. The subperitoneal or subserous variety of fibroma, is determined by similar causes; here the process of growth is eccentric, because either the external layers of uterine tissue are thinner and more yielding, or because accidental congestions of the uterine surface supply the incentive to development. Fibromata are by far the most common of all uterine tumors. Klob esti- mates them as present in 40 per cent, of women who die after middle age— doubtless an excessive estimate. Their greatest frequency is during middle life: Schroeder says between forty and fifty years of age; Gusserow, of Stutt- gart, between thirty and forty ; Emmet between thirty and thirty-five. As to the influence of sexual activity these authors differ, Gusserow reporting 673 in married women out of a total of 959 cases ; while Emmet, whose tables contain most elaborate analyses, infers from a total of* 225 cases that the un- married is twice as liable as the married woman to develop fibromata; Hart and Barbour, following Gusserow, take directly the opposite ground. The unquestioned coincidence of sterility, whether as cause or effect, may possibly explain the difference of opinion. Location and Structure.—The location of fibromata is, in the vast majority of cases, in the body of the womb, rarely in the cervix ; and in the body they occur most often in the posterior wall, less frequently in the anterior