92G SCROFULO-TUBERCULOUS AND OTHER STRUCTURAL DISEASES OF BONES. multiplicity of the present osteitis, etc. The diagnosis of the nature of the disease is read on the skin of the patient when he is stripped. Auscultation of the patient ought to follow this general scrutiny of the surface of the body. Too often there are found manifest signs of advanced pulmonary tuberculosis. In many cases there is found only blowing expira- tion, rough and prolonged; and sometimes also respiration is absolutely normal. I have under observation at the present time a patient who was castrated five years ago for tuberculous orchitis, and who manifests at this time osteitis of the sternum and of a number of other bones, as well as pseudo- rheumatic arthritis in several joints, but who has never had the least respi- ratory trouble. In a majority of cases, questioning the patients will disclose the fact that some members of their families have died of a thoracic affection, and that they themselves have had, if they have not at this time, some lung-disease: hiemoptysis, bronchitis, or pleurisy. Heredity plays an important part in the etiology of tuberculous osteitis, which cannot be too much insisted on. But privations, poverty, bad hygienic conditions, excesses, all the causes of moral or physical debility, exercise no less influence. Heredity constitutes an innate predisposition; want of any kind, an acquired predisposition to the reception and evolution of the tuberculous contagium. I purposely omit speaking here of scrofula, as I consider this diathetic entity an initial, mitigated stage—a period of outbreak of tuberculosis. The scrofulous and the tuberculous are candidates for pulmonary phthisis. The majority of patients affected with tuberculous osteopathies die phthisical, either before recovering from their bone-lesion, or sooner or later afterwards. A certain number of children die of meningitis, of enteritis, of tubercular peritonitis, or of acute phthisis. Outside of those cases, independent of bone-' lesions, there are found commonly at autopsies numerous visceral ulcerations; tubercles, caseous masses, or cavities in the lungs; the liver is fatty ; the kid- neys are strewn with amyloid material. Amyloid degeneration of the kidneys seems to be less common in France than in Germany. We must not forget the tuberculous infiltration of the lymphatic vessels and glands—superficial or deep, near or remote—which are found in tuberculous osteopathies. Prognosis of Tuberculo-Scrofulous Osteopathies.—Tuberculous affections of the hones, being a manifestation of the tuberculous diathesis or infection, have necessarily a grave general prognosis. The patient who has an osteitis of this kind is threatened with the appearance of tuberculosis at some other point in his organism, and with death from phthisis. Nevertheless, if this is the rule, there are happy exceptions, the number of which depends on the conditions in which the patients live, or may be placed, in relation to hy- giene, feeding, and care. The bone-lesion is susceptible of recovery, and it may even remain the sole and only manifestation of the contagion. The relative prognosis of the different varieties of tuberculous osteopathies is not the same; the encysted form, which has more tendency to spontaneous recovery, is more innocent than infiltration. The latter is perhaps less serious than caries, in the sense that it usually involves only the bone, at least origi- nally, whilst caries generally implies a lesion of a joint and of the elements which compose it. The seat of the osteopathy modifies the prognosis. Thus, osteitis of the vertebne or of the pelvis, is more serious, because of the diffi- culty of surgical interference. Tuberculous osteopathy of the smaller long bones—spina ventosa—is usually not very- serious: on the one hand, it re- covers spontaneously ; on the other, intervention is easy. Nevertheless, in very young children spina ventosa may be serious. The question of age is of