INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. 560 2 Trans. Path. Soc. Lond., vol. xvi. p. 184. of light. Sufficient blood may be effused after the swelling has been tapped, to render the fluid quite dark-colored and the swelling non-translucent. Dr. Marcet’s1 analysis of 1000 grains of this fluid, of the specific gravity 1024.3, Transverse section of vaginal hydrocele. The testis, ■which is normal, is seen behind, covered by the tunica vaginalis, which is much dilated and thickened ; the constituents of the cord are seen above. gave 80 grains of solid matter (animal 71.5 ; saline 8.5). The serum of the blood (sp. grav. 1025-1030) contains more animal matter than the hydrocele In the Anatomical Museum at King’s College, is an interesting specimen of fluid which was removed from a hydrocele by the. late Sir William Fergusson. At the present time it looks like semi-solid mutton-fat. It was shown at the Pathological Society of London, and reported on by Dr. Harley and Mr. Mason,2 who found that the white milky appearance was due to fat-globules. No spermatozoa were discovered. The fluid was taken from the hydrocele of a healthy German, aged 42, who was tapped three times in twelve months, fluid of this peculiar character being drawn off each time. The swelling fluctuated, but was not examined in regard to transparency. M. Vidal (de Cassis) met with a case of non-transparent double hydrocele containing a similar fluid, and in his treatise on surgery gave the name of Galactocele to this condition ; a name not strictly accurate. Another case is quoted from Sichel’s Thesis (Zurich, 1833). The sp. grav. was 1019, whereas that of milk is 1030-1034. This variety of hydrocele fluid contains albumen and sugar, and the white color is due to large granular cells and oil-globules, which dissolve in ether and leave the fluid clear. Stellate crystals of mar- garic acid form after a time. The presence of fat-globules in hydrocele fluid is con- sidered by Klebs to be due to a fatty degeneration of the endothelial cells. The fluid is of a chylous nature, and is frequently associated with filarice in the fluid and blood ; which is explained by the parent parasite being located in the lymphatics of the cord. Fig. 1364. fluid. 1 Medico-Cliir. Trans., vol. ii. p. 372.