PULSATILE TUMORS OF BONE. 985 ence should be given to the knife. The tumor must be removed freely, so as to prevent recurrence. (2) Enucleation.—This procedure is applicable to enchondromata. Correctly speaking, the medullary canal is to he opened and scooped out through the whole extent in which it is believed that there is any morbid tissue. Dieffenbach seems, however, to think that morbid tissue left behind may become ossified and thus lead to a cure. This is the method recommended by Dr. A. Aubert1 for certain chondromata of the fingers. (3) Resection.—It may be necessary, in case of a central tumor, to resect the whole portion of bone affected with the degeneration. (4) Amputation.—This is the last resource. It is not rare to see chondro- mata of the hand which are not of large size, which have no tendency to increase, and which allow the fingers to preserve the greater part of their functions. In such a case it is better to abstain from all surgical interference. Amputation would not be indicated except in case of rapid growth, or of great functional disturbance, when disarticulation should be practised at the next joint. For chondromata of the long bones, where the prognosis is often much more grave, the kind of amputation should be determined by the characters and extent of the neoplasm. Pulsatile Tumors of Bone. Sarcomata, at a certain stage of their development, may exhibit pulsation and a murmur under the influence of simple dilatation of the bloodvessels. These symptoms are observed especiall}7 in giant-celled and in round-celled sarcomata. (Gross.) The same phenomenon may be produced in carcino- mata when the vascular element has increased considerably. This is a first variety of pulsatile tumor; but its study belongs to the history of sarcoma and carcinoma. At other times, in the midst of a tissue clearly sarcomatous or carcinomatous, there are found more or less anfractuous cavities, of different dimensions, containing blood and clots, and on the walls of which broken bloodvessels open. These cases constitute a second variety of pulsatile tumor, but their study also belongs to that of sarcoma and carcinoma. Finally, there are found in the bones vast cavities in which blood circulates, brought by vessels gaping in the wall, and containing also clots formed from the constituents of the blood. Their wall is made up of a fibrous web, without any trace of sarcomatous or carcinomatous tissue. In the cavity there sometimes float denuded vessels; the neighboring parts are simply distended and not altered. The dilated afferent vessels have healthy coats, just like the large vessels of the limb. This last variety of vascular tumor of bone has been the subject of an important paper by M. Richet.2 Synonyms.—Erectile tumors of the bones (Breschet). Fhematomata of the bones (Volkmann). Aneurisms of the bones (Richet, Follin). We shall see that these different denominations correspond to different pathogenic theories. Pathological Anatomy.—Pulsatile tumors of the bones are* developed in the spongy tissue at the ends of the long bones, and especially at the upper end of the tibia. In the second place come the lower end »f the femur and the upper end of the humerus. Demongeot de Confevron mentions a case occur- ring in the middle portion of the radius. The articular extremity is trans- formed into a shell, the irregular and anfractuous cavity of which has a con- stant tendency to increase. Sometimes the walls of the cavity are made up of bone-tissue reduced to the state of flexible lamellae; sometimes the shell 1 Op. cit. 2 Arch. Gen. de Med., 1864.