DESCRIPTION OF THE VARIOUS TYPES OF URINARY CALCULUS. 165 OF VERY COMMON OCCURRENCE. 1. Uric acid. 2. Oxalate of lime. 3. Mixed phosphates (lime, ammonium, magnesium). OF LESS COMMON OCCURRENCE. 4. Urate of ammonium. 5. Ammonio-magnesian phosphate. 6. Phosphate of lime. 7. Carbonate of lime. 8. Cystine. EXCESSIVELY RARE. 9. Xanthine. 10. Fibrin. 11. Urostealith. 12. Indigo. Any of these substance may occur as the chief constituent, but one or more may also be deposited in the same calculus forming superimposed layers, the alternating calculus. Generally, for obvious reasons, the phosphates form the outermost layer. The layers indicate the condition of the urine at the time each was being formed. According to Coulson,1 alternating calculi con- stitute almost fifty per cent, of all specimens found in museums. Cystine, xanthine, urostealith, indigo, and fibrin, always stand alone, and do not form alternating layers in calculi—but any one of them may act as a nucleus and become coated with phosphates. Urostealith is only found in company with the phosphates, while indigo has been observed by Ultzmann in crys- talline form, included in or surrounding deposits of uric acid and oxalate of lime. Fibrin, as blood clot, is not very uncommon as a nucleus of a calculus —even a primary calculus. Description of the Various Types of Urinary Calculus. Uric-acid calculus is the most common form encountered in the human subject. It was described in 1776 by Scheele. The calculus of old, men with enlarged prostates is an exception to the rule, being most often phosphatic. The uric-acid stone may be composed almost exclusively of uric acid, or may be mingled in its intimate structure, or in alternating layers, with more or less oxalate of lime and different urates. It is generally oval, rarely very large, and sometimes quite smooth, though more often granular or smoothly tuberculated. In color it varies from a light fawn (Owen Rees has seen a uric-acid calculus perfectly white) to a brownish or even a blackish-red. The so-called pisiform uric-acid calculus is a pea-like body, often possessed of many facets, occasionally single, generally multiple, and often of a pale yellowish-white color from a coating of urate of ammo- nium. Of this kind are commonly the stones passed at intervals by gouty patients during a series of years. Section discloses two forms of structure in uric-acid calculi, the laminated and the amorphous. A given stone may contain layers of both forms. The laminated uric-acid calculus, when cut through the centre and polished, resembles an agate. It displays a concentric arrangement of regularly curved lines of slightly varying color and thickness, looks crystalline when broken, and takes a high polish. Radiating lines are often observed upon it, extend- 1 Op. cit., p. 341.