342 INJURIES AND DISEASES OE THE BLADDER AND PROSTATE. irrespective of mechanical cause or the presence of some chemical irritant* and otherwise than as the effect of long-continued sympathetic irritation.” The most acute form of cystitis is that occasionally seen in connection with surgical procedures having for their object the removal of stone from the bladder; it may even follow the preliminary examination known as sounding, by which the presence of a calculus is determined. The produc- tion of cystitis after lithotrity has been attributed by Professor Bigelow, not as much to damage inflicted by the presence of the lithotrite within the bladder, as to the retention, as foreign bodies, of fragments of the stone. With the view of removing so fruitful a cause of inflammation, in connection with these operations, Professor Bigelow1 2 has demonstrated the feasibility of withdrawing at one sitting the whole of the fragments by sufficient tritura- tion and suitable aspiration; with the result of considerably diminishing the risk of cystitis. Not only lias he thus, to a large extent, succeeded in ridding the operation of its chief source of danger and failure, but he has proved the safety with which lithotrity, in suitable cases, can, like litho- tomy, be completed at one sitting. Incidental allusion is made to this subject here, only as bearing on the causation of cystitis. Additional interest has recently been attached to the production of cysti- tis and ammoniacal urine, by the discovery of bacteria in fresh urine, under apparently inexplicable circumstances, as illustrated by Dr. W. Roberts.* Clinically, it is important to remember that very active cystitis has been pro- voked by the use of unclean instruments, such as catheters; and, further, that certain drugs capable of controlling it, as for example the salicylates and quinine, probably owe this power to their action as bactericides. Symptoms.—Acute cystitis, however provoked (and it can never be regarded as spontaneous in origin, or idiopathic), usually presents the following symp- toms, of which the local are the first to appear. There is deep pain, increased on pressure, immediately above the pubes ; micturition becomes frequent, and is most distressing, a few drops of urine being the only result of prolonged and spasmodic efforts. The limited area of the tenderness is sufficient, in conjunction with the vesical irritability, to indicate the organ implicated. The urine is high-colored, and sometimes tinged with blood. In proportion to the severity of the inflammation, so do the neighboring parts sympathize. There is rectal tenesmus, and a distressing feeling of fulness about the peri- neum, as if there were something which ought to be expelled. Subsequently the urine is found to be loaded with lithates and mucus, and ultimately it becomes ammoniacal. The constitutional symptoms are those indicating in- flammation of a vital organ. The attack is usually ushered in by rigors, or a feeling of chilliness, and the symptoms of an acute febrile attack soon super- vene, unless the cause of the inflammation is speedily removed; as, for in- stance, fragments of stone left behind in the bladder after the operation of lithotrity. These symptoms rapidly assume a fatal character; the tongue becomes brown, the pulse thready, and the skin clammy, and death occurs within a Aveek from the commencement of the attack. In theacuter forms of cystitis, the mucous membrane is the part chiefly in- volved ; after death this is found deeply injected, with here and there patches of a still deeper hue, as if from submucous hemorrhages. Occasionally the mucous membrane of the bladder, when inflamed, throws out an exudative material, which. ha| suggested the name of diphtheritic or croupous cystitis. Casts of the vesical cavity may in this way be formed, and 1 Litholapaxy, or Rapid Lithotrity with Evacuation. 2 Brit. Med. Journal, October 15, 1881.