OVARIAN AND UTERINE TUMORS. 808 wall, and still more rarely at the sides. Often multiple, they occur sometimes in extraordinary numbers : Dr. Thomas quotes a case in which thirty-five such tumors were found in the uterus, Schultze has seen fifty, and in a fatal case of placenta prsevia published1 by myself, at least twenty fibromata were found in the uterus, and had prevented its efficient contraction. In structure all such growths partake of the same elements as their parent tissue, the uterine wall, and contain pure fibrous tissue and unstriped mus- cular fibre, as above stated. They vary greatly as to the proportion of these constituents, from the pure myoma, which is soft, rapid in growth, so as sometimes to attain enormous proportions, and happily rare, to the almost pure fibroma, which shows a white, glistening surface on section, is developed very slowly, and is almost cartilaginous in hardness. In the common mixed tumor (or fibroid tumor proper), the fibrous element predominates, and is developed in concentric layers or bundles, separated by sparse supplies of muscular fibre, or by interspaces which Klebs thinks lymph- atic spaces. This is surrounded and enveloped by a “capsule” of loose fibrous tissue. A few bloodvessels and nerves have also been traced into the struc- ture of these growths. The immediate neighborhood of the tumor is in a constant state of conges- tion ; and, as development progresses, the neoplasm advances from the uterine surface with varying degrees of rapidity, until it may fill the uterine cavity, or, when subserous, until it gradually fills the entire cavity of the abdomen. Accident determines its remaining sessile, or becoming pedunculated. In the latter case, the submucous growth may gradually become elongated and form a fibrous 'polypus, and, exciting uterine contraction, may be gradually extruded into the vagina; or, if subperitoneal, it may gradually be separated from the uterus by an elongating pedicle, and may finally be detached entirely from its surface. As it ascends into the abdomen, it may draw the uterus upwards, elongating its cavity and, according to Virchow, even tearing the body of the womb from the cervix by steady and gradual traction. Subperitoneal fibroids with long pedicles are peculiarly liable to complicate the patient’s health by their mobility, by their tendency to sink by gravitation into the pelvis and there become incarcerated, and by their liability to sphacelation or gangrene from twisting of their pedicles. Fatal cases of this accident, in which death has ensued from septicaemia or septic peritonitis, are occasionally reported, and certainly occur more frequently than is commonly supposed. Degenerative Changes.-—The degenerative changes which fibroids undergo are induration with occasional calcification ; softening with oedema or fatty degeneration ; and, more rarely, cystic, or true malignant degeneration. The first of these generally occurs at or after the menopause, and is always a condition of retrograde metamorphosis. Freund and Martin (quoted by Gusserow) report cases in which true fatty degeneration has occurred at the same epoch; and cedematous alterations are well known to many observers. Cystic degeneration and malignant degeneration, whether sarcomatous or carcinomatous, are more rare; but modern research leaves no doubt that all true fibro-cystic tumors of the womb originate in this way. Klebs, Winckel, and Virchow have all written elaborately on the etiology of uterine fibroids; but it remains as true to-day as it was when Gusserow said it ten years ago: we know as little of the causation of these growths as of that of most other neoplasms—“ namlich nichts.” It is therefore a waste of time to repeat the hypotheses that interested a former generation of readers, and we may pass at once to the symptoms, diagnosis, and treatment of these tumors. 1 Trans, of New York Obstet. Soc., vol. i.