ANOMALIES OF THE TESTICLE. 599 illustrating the cure of a lipoma by pressure; the epididymis was obliterated, and the testicle was atrophied. As we have already seen, a blocking of the spermatic artery, either by section or by ligature, will cause the testicle to waste. An aneurism of the aorta, pressing on the spermatic arteries at their origin, caused wasting of both testes. In varicocele, the circulation of the testicle being impaired owing to a faulty condition of the veins, the gland is softer and smaller on the affected side, being according to Mr. Pearce Gould undeveloped, and not atrophied. In some cases the testicle is wasted owing to its compression by a hieniatocele or a hydrocele. Faulty truss-pressure will also cause atrophy. Sir Benjamin Brodie, in a lecture on varicose veins, says that, in conformity with a general law of the animal economy, a part not used wastes. Most observers, however, are agreed that the testicles do not waste in men who are continent, and we have already seen that the testicle does not become smaller when the vas deferens, its duct, is destroyed. Sir James Paget has noted the interesting fact that if a buck be castrated when his antlers are in the velt, they remain velvety and eventually become small and ill-formed. It is probable that testicles which are unused do not develop like those that are used with moderation, and that they cease to be functionally active at an earlier age. In cases of epispadia and hypospadia, the testicles, when present, are smaller than usual. In paraplegia, following injury to the cord from fracture or dislocation of the spine, the testicles waste and do not secrete spermatozoa, according to the testimony of Curling, Ivlebs, Wardrop, and others. These cases are associated with fatty degeneration of the gland, absence of spermatozoa, and cessation of sexual desire. The epithelium lining the seminal ducts, and the epithelioid lining of the bloodvessels of the testicle, in patients suffering from typhus fever and other diseases attended by high temperature, undergo a fatty metamorphosis. The substance of the testicle becomes disorganized by the pressure caused by new growths within the tunica albuginea. Acute orchitis, whether consequent on disease, especially mumps, or on injury, often leads to atrophy so complete, that only two fibrous nodules remain to mark the former situation of the testis and epididymis. The specimens illustrating testicular atrophy in the Museum of the Royal Col- lege of Surgeons, almost all exhibit marks of inflammation of some kind, with adhesions of the tunica vaginalis or with effusion of lymph. Sir B. Brodie referred the wasting of the testicle in one case to masturbation, and in another to inflammation from sexual excitment. Elephantiasis Graecorum has been said by Lawrence, Curling, and others, to give rise to atrophy of the testicles.1 A severe contusion will so injure the gland as to cause it to waste, and men and animals have been purposely rendered impotent by crushing their testicles. A wound of the tunica albuginea may allow the tubules to escape and may thus destroy the gland. The assertion that iodine and its compounds cause wasting of the testicles needs confirmation. Venereal excesses and masturbation injure the organ by causing attacks of subacute inflammation. A syphilitic orchitis, when left without suitable treatment, will destroy the gland. Anaemia of the testis may be associated with atrophy, or the gland may retain its usual size, but present a very [tale appearance on section. Sperma- tozoa are no longer produced. A debilitating illness may induce anaemia of both organs, but generally one only is affected in cases of tubercular and 1 MeAico-Chir. Trans., vol. vi. p. 214: Medical Gaz., vol. vii. p. 447 ; Sir Erasmus Wilson, Lectures on Dermatology, Royal College of Surgeons, 1873.