414 INJURIES AND DISEASES OE THE BLADDER AND PROSTATE. The knife is now withdrawn, but the left forefinger is still retained in the rectum. The probe-pointed director is carried through the wound, and, guided by the left forefinger, enters the urethra and is passed into the bladder. The finger is now withdrawn from the rectum, the left hand grasps the director, and along the groove of this instrument the canula is slid until it enters the bladder. The operation is now complete, and it only remains to secure the canula in its place with four pieces of tape, which are fastened to a girth round the loins. There will probably be no escape of urine until the stylet is removed from the catheter. A direct communication with the bladder has now been obtained, and the relief to the patient will be immediate. Unless the kidneys have become irremediably disorganized, we may confidently anticipate a favorable result ; and the restoration of the urinary organs will be more or less complete, in proportion as the obstructed portion of the urethra is more or less amenable to the ordinary judicious treatment of stricture. The canula may generally be retained in the bladder for a few days, and, if the state of the urine renders ablution necessary, the viscus may be frequently washed out. The canula may then be removed, cleaned, and reintroduced. A flexible catheter is some- times more desirable and congenial to the feelings of the patient than a metallic canula. I Puncture of the bladder directly from the perineum is not a proceeding which is now practised for the relief of retention due to stricture of the urethra, or of any of the complications arising therefrom. Where an opening is necessary, and the prostate is normal in size, a perineal puncture of the bladder either through or by the side of the prostate does not offer any advantages over Cock’s operation of opening the urethra at the apex of the gland, as already described, and is a hazardous proceeding. Where, however, the prostate by reason of its hypertrophy becomes the hindrance to micturition, Cock’s operation is not to be advised, inasmuch as the obstacle is situated behind the point at which the urethra is tapped, and hence it is under the circumstances of a distended bladder depending upon an enlarged prostate, that the desirability of direct paracentesis from the perineum, independent of the line of the urethra, may be considered. The following case occurring in my practice illustrates this operation N. D., aged 84, was admitted into the Liverpool Royal Infirmary, under my care, on Nov. 4, 1881. My house surgeon, Mr. Laimbeer, found him bleeding from attempted catheterization, with an enlarged prostate and a distended bladder. Perceiving the urgency of the case, and finding that catheterization was impracticable, he emptied the bladder with the aspirator above the pubis. Afterwards I saw the patient, and, having administered ether, succeeded in passing a catheter. Recognizing the difficulty of the situation, and the necessity for establishing a permanent opening through which the urine could escape, I determined to tap the bladder from the perineum. I therefore withdrew the catheter without letting any urine escape, in order that I might tap a distended and not a flaccid viscus. Taking a trocar specially made for the purpose, I introduced it in the median line of the perineum, three-quarters of an inch in front of the anus, and pushed it steadily through the prostate into the bladder, at the same time retaining my left forefinger in the rectum as a guide. On withdrawing the trocar, a large quantity of ammoniacal urine escaped. The canula, being provided with a shield, was secured in its place by tapes, much in the same way as a tracheotomy-tube. A piece of India-rubber tubing was attached to the portion of canula which projected beyond the shield, and conveyed the urine into a vessel placed at the side of the bed. Through this tubing urine con- tinued to dribble. The patient was at once made comfortable by this arrangement, and in forty-eight hours he was up—an important matter with old persons—and sitting in an easy-chair. To permit of this, the rubber tubing was shortened during the daytime, its end being tucked through a light abdominal belt where it was compressed by a small pair of bull-dog forceps, which were removed when the patient desired to pass water. He was quite as well as most men are at eighty-four years of age. He got up daily, took his food, slept comfortably on either his back or his side without any nar-