APPENDIX. 1154 Hippocrates; in connection with the latter he speaks of “the cupping instru- ment.” It is interesting to read the directions of Hippocrates for the cure of fistula in ano. He gives several methods, and minute details for the after- treatment. The following is from the fourth section of his treatise on “ Fistulse:”— Another method of cure : taking a very slender thread of raw lint and uniting it into five folds of the length of a span ; and wrapping them around with a horse-hair; then having made a director (specillum) of tin, with an eye at its extremity, and having passed through it the end of raw lint, wrapped around as above described, intro- duce the director into the fistula, and, at the same time, introduce the index finger of the left hand per anum; and when the director touches the finger, bring it out with the finger, bending the extremity of the director and the end of the threads in it, and the director is to be withdrawn, but the ends of the threads are to be knotted twice or thrice, and the rest of the raw threads are to be twisted around and fastened into a knot. Then the patient is to be told that he may go and attend to his matters. Then follow directions for tightening the ligature every day until it cuts through, and other after-treatment. Hippocrates devotes an entire treatise to the subject of hemorrhoids. After describing the disease, and mentioning its causes, he proceeds to enumerate the several modes of treatment, remarking that “ cutting, excising, sewing, binding, applying putrefacient means to the anus, all these appear to be very formidable things, and yet, after all, they are not attended with mischief.” He approved of the actual cautery used in the most decided manner. “ Make the irons red-hot, and burn the pile until it be dried up, and so as that no part may be left behind. And burn so as to leave none of the hemor- rhoids unburnt, for you should burn them all up.” In that day no ethereal or letheial vapor or draught was given to the suffering patient; we are told: “ when the cautery is applied, the patient’s head and hands should be held so that he may not stir, hut he himself should cry out, for this will make the rectum project the more.” The expansible specidum ani was in use in the fifth century before the Christian era. Hippocrates, when treating of internal condylomata, in the fifth section of the book under consideration, says, “ if the condyloma be higher up, you must examine it with the speculum, and you should take care not to be deceived by the speculum ; for when ex- panded it renders the condyloma level with the surrounding parts, but when contracted, it shows the tumor right again.” In the sixth section he advises a most ingenious method of using the actual cautery within the rectum, by introducing it through a canula. “ An iron that exactly fits is to be adapted to it; their the tube being introduced into the anus, the iron, red hot, is to be passed down it, and frequently drawn out, so that the part may bear the more heat, and no sore may result from the heating, and the dried veins may heal up.” Suppositories were also employed by Hippocrates. “ But if you wish to effect the cure by suppositories, take the shell of the cuttle-fish, a third part of plumbago, bitumen, alum, a little of the flos seris, galls, a little verdigris; having poured a small quantity of boiled honey on these, and formed an oblong suppository, apply until you remove them.” In the treatment of injuries of the head, the trepan was used with more freedom than at the present time, though not without a considerable amount of caution. The instrument, so called, is believed to have been the same as that described by Celsus, in the first century, under the name of the modiolus, a tubular saw, not unlike our modern trephine. Hippocrates refers to the differences between the bones of children and those of adults. In section 18 of his treatises on “ Injuries of the Head,” he says