156 URINARY CALCULUS. have strong and constantly out-cropping tendencies to the appearance of fine uric-acid gravel. The baby of three years and the grandfather of seventy manifest it about equally. The most celebrated recorded instance of inherited tendency to stone is that reported by Mr. Clubbe,1 of Lowestoft, where six children all had stone, the father and mother passed quantities of uric acid, and the grandfather, grand- mother, great uncle, six uncles, four aunts, and a cousin-—all had had attacks of gravel, or had been cut for stone. Cadge2 recently reported a case of stone in a female with sacculated bladder, who asserted that her father had died after litbotrity, and that her brother was then suffering from stone. In several of my own calculous cases the patients, without prompting, have accounted for their stones on the ground that their fathers had had gravel. It seems to me more than probable that hereditary tendency to stone lies at the bottom of its regional distribution, and accounts for its geographical peculiarities. Generation after generation, growing up in the same region, and intermarrying, would naturally reproduce and intensify any such physi- cal trait. In former years, when locomotion was slow, the few who emigrated married others with different tendencies, and so failed to spread the habit, while those who married others with like tendencies established new areas of stone formation. Food, drink, and surroundings may have intensified or modified these natural physical peculiarities, but that the essence of the geographical distribution of stone (primary, acid stone) lies in intensified hereditary predis- position, seems to me at least plausible in lack of a better explanation. With modern facility and cheapness of locomotion, it seems at least possible that the centres of stone formation may finally be broken up, and that by more general and mixed marriages the disease may become.more extended in geographical area, but less active. Chronic disease of the urinary passages is unquestionably a factor in stone formation. Stricture of the urethra, although occasionally complicated by stone, is only so as an exception. Stricture provokes powerful contractions of the bladder to expel its contents. As a rule, the bladder empties itself, and there is generally no physical reason why stone should form. I have encountered stone as a complication of stricture in only three or four instances. Enlarged :prostate, on the other hand, leads to eccentric hypertrophy and atony. In this condition the patient has residual urine, often in a state of partial decomposi- tion from vesical catarrh, and thus all the conditions necessary for active, secondary, phosphatic stone are present. These conditions exist the world over, and sufficiently explain the great relative frequency of stone in the aged. Ho case of prostatic disease is fairly treated unless an exploration for stone is made, whether the patient presents any symptoms of stone or not. Diseases of the spinal cord which cause paralysis or atony of the bladder lead to stone (phosphatic), unless the bladder is kept washed out. Foreign bodies play a chief part in the formation of secondary (phos- phatic) stones. The irritation of the foreign body excites more or less catarrh; the urine becomes alkaline, ammoniacal, and partly decomposed; earthy and triple-phosphates are thrown down ; and in the colloid muco-pus about the foreign body the phosphatic material stiffens into stone. A foreign body never becomes encased with phosphatic material until after it has excited catarrhal inflammation of the mucous membrane upon which it rests. The same statement applies to any foreign body anywhere in the ’ Hereditariness of Stone. Lancet, Feb. 10, 1872, p. 204. s Lancet, January 5, 1884, p. 6.