791 OVARIAN CYSTS AND CYSTOMATA. Fusion of many of these minor cysts into one, and progressive develop- ment of the cyst-wall, are the chief factors that produce important changes in simple cysts. Fusion of two or more cysts into one is due to the gradu- ally increasing pressure on their intervening walls, which is a natural conse- quence of their growth. This finally causes perforation; and, the pressure continuing, the opening constantly increases, until at last the smaller cyst forms simply a nodule in the wall of the larger, the former partition-wall contracting into flat septa which project into the cavity. Thus many cysts may merge into one “ unilocular” cyst of large size, which, according to Waldeyer, is always thus formed—the original type being multilocular, and the final resultant unilocular. As development progresses, numerous changes in the cyst-walls also occur, and impress varying characteristics upon the cystoma. These depend usually upon the comparative development of the epithelium and of the connective- tissue elements. In the former case, new glandular follicles or blind pouches are developed upon the interior of the cyst-wall; these rapidly undergo cystic degeneration by dilatation, and from their surface other follicles sprout which likewise become cystic. Thus an exterior new formation is developed in the cyst-wall, proliferating in all directions, merging into the interior parent cyst with which the breaking-down walls of the new growths here and there communicate, and finally producing the minute, honeycomb formation so often met with in ovariotomy. This is the so-called glandular proliferating cyst, or cystoma jrroliferum glandulare, of Waldeyer. In the cystoma jrroliferum papillare, the opposite condition, hypertrophy of connective-tissue elements, predominates. Here mucous villi, or vascular sprouts of the connective tissue of the inner layer of the cyst-wall, push for- ward the epithelium into the cyst-cavity, forming papillae—sometimes minute, slender filaments, sometimes thick masses which ramify in every direction—- and filling the entire cyst-cavity. More rarely they perforate the main cyst- wall from the excessive pressure exerted from within, and sprout into the abdominal cavity. Growths of this class seldom form adhesions to neigh- boring parts, which Waldeyer and Emmet attribute to the peculiar nature of their epithelium, made up of cylindrical cells ; this possesses many of the qualities of mucous membrane, as long as the tnmor remains intact. Friction against the abdominal walls gradually destroys the epithelium, however, and then adhesions may occur as in ordinary tumors. These two varieties of cystoma may also combine, and thus lead to the development of the most various forms. In the main, however, two layers compose the walls of all principal cysts, and, occasionally, of the larger second- ary cysts, viz., a highly vascular internal stratum, composed of proliferating cells and lined with epithelium, and a much thicker layer of somewhat dense connective tissue. Eichwald dissents from Waldeyer’s opinion that the epi- thelium is always cylindrical, having demonstrated pavement epithelium in a few cases, while in others ciliated epithelium is said to have been discovered. The contents of ovarian cysts vary in every degree between a gelatinous fluid, dense as the thickest jelly, and a thin, limpid, but viscid liquid. This is serous, highly albuminous, and varies in color from a pale yellow to a dirty yellowish-green, or brownish-red; not infrequently it is bloody or sero-puru- lent. In parovarian cysts alone are the contents quite clear, watery, and very slightly albuminous. The thick gelatinous fluid is thought by Schroeder to be “composed of glandular cells which have undergone a colloid degeneration, and have been afterwards separated and dissolved in the serous exudation.” Eichwald,1 who has made most elaborate studies of the histology of cyst 1 Colloidentartung der Eierstocke, Wurzb. med. Zeitsclirift, 1864, S. 270, u. folg.