INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE FEMALE GENITALS. €84 1 American Journal ol Obstetrics, June, 1884. and the sutures introduced upon one side, in a bilateral tear. The first three sutures are numbered according to the order of their introduction; the fourth, it will be seen, enters at a, and passes out at that which is to be one of the walls of the cervical canal at a; enters again at b of the other lip, and passes to its external surface at b. If silver wire is to be used for the sutures, each is bent and hooked upon the silk loop which is carried by the needle, and is thus placed in position. Each suture is fastened by twisting its ends; it is then bent over so as to lie close to the cervix, and is cut off at half an inch in length; some prefer compressed shot for fastening the sutures, and these may also be used if the stitches are of silkworm-gut. Figs. 1382, 1383, and 1384, copied with some modifica- tions from Thorburn, show various steps in the operation of tracheloplasty. After-treatment.—Skene applies around and below the cervix a tampon of marine lint, which is removed in forty-eight hours, when, if there is any suppuration, a fresh one is introduced. Jackson places in the vagina a cot- ton tampon saturated with glycerine, has it removed in twenty-four hours, and has the vagina syringed once or twice daily with warm water slightly car- bolized. Emmet directs a vaginal inject ion of warm water once a day, or night and morning, if there should be much discharge. The patient remains in bed for two weeks; the diet is not especially restricted; the bladder is emp- tied by the catheter, or spontaneously in the bed-pan, and the bowels may be moved every other day, but the evacuation must he without the patient •sitting up; the stitches are removed in eight or ten days, but the patient keeps her bed for a few days longer. Accidents during and after the Operation.—Hemorrhage during the ope- ration generally arises from a wound of the circular artery, or of one of its branches; if it does not yield to applications of hot water, it is arrested “by passing the first suture through the vaginal tissue, a short distance below the angle of the laceration” (Emmet). Secondary hemorrhage may occur within a few days after the operation, and in some cases is very serious. Hot- water injections should be used, and, if these do not arrest the flow, the cer- vix should be exposed, and a suture applied on the side of the neck from which the blood comes; or finally' the tampon may he required. Sloughing of a part of the cervix may occur from one or more sutures being drawn too tight; this of course is an accident which may be prevented by proper care during the application of the stitches. Pelvic inflammation—parametritis or perimetritis -—may follow the operation, and in some cases may result fatally. The statis- tics of Wells1 show one death in about two hundred and fifty operations. This mortality is probably understated, for the operation is being done by hundreds of surgeons in this country, and fatal cases are more likely to be unpublished than successful ones. I know myself of seven unpublished fatal cases, and it is probable that the actual mortality of the operation is nearly one per cent. The deaths in most of the cases are probably the con- sequence of septicaemia, and therefore in some degree from a preventable •cause. While the mortality is not great in view of the important benefits which this procedure confers when employed in suitable eases, and while proper precautions will no doubt very much lessen this death-rate in the future, it is important that the operation should not be regarded as entirely devoid of danger, and thus rashly advocated or recklessly performed.