966 SCROFULO-TUBERCULOUS AND OTHER STRUCTURAL DISEASES OF BONES. scopical examination made by Mr. Bntlin, although incomplete, and the clini- cal history, seem to me to require that this affection should be put with true osteomalacia, as a benign and hypertrophic variety. It is, perhaps, to this form that a certain number of cases belong in which cures have been noted, with or without the aid of therapeutics. There is hyperostosis, because, the inflammation being moderated, the phenomena of repair on the part of the periosteum and the medullary canal are not obliterated by the concomitant phenomena of absorption, which occur in the canals of Havers. Curves occur in the long bones which support the weight of the body, because the medulli- zation of "the compact layers and the formation of new bone-tissue, which is also areolated and laminated, diminish the resistance of the bone. The bending does not go on to fracture, nor to angular curvature, because the conditions of resistance are not destroyed, but only lessened. In the grave form of osteomalacia, absorption is so rapid that it prevents or destroys all deposition of bone, and the bones reach the state of softness and want of con- sistence which I have already described. But, in one, as in the other, it is fundamentally the same process; here inevitably reaching its culmination more or less promptly; there remaining in its stage of commencement and manifesting itself in a more benign manner. This is why I propose to desig- nate that which Sir James Paget has described under the name of osteitis deformans, by the name of benign hypertrophic osteomalacia PsEUDO-MALACIA OF INFLAMED Fig. 1463. Section of a femur curved in consequence of inflammatory softening. (From the collection of M. Ollier.) Bones.-—It is rather a state of softness than of softening of the bones which I wish to designate by the name of pseudo-malacia of inflamed bones. By this I mean the bending, the curvature which is produced in the diapliysis of a long bone during the stage of repair of an osteopathy, which has given rise to a large sequestrum and ulti- mately to the formation of an ensheath- ing shell.- This shell, which is composed of young bone-tissue, and the neighboring parts, which are medullized by reactionary inflammation, have not much consistence, for lack of calcification of the abundant oro-anic matter which enters into their O composition. They are susceptible, con- sequently, of bending under the weight of the body when the patient walks too soon, or simply from the wreight of the limb, if it gets crooked in the bed, if it is placed in a defective position. Muscular contraction may also contribute to these deformities; whence the importance of supporting the limbs in good splints. It is especially in the tibia and in the femur that deformities from this cause are seen after juxta-epiphyseal osteitis. It is rea- sonable to suppose that in a patient with early or delayed rachitis, this defect or this slowness of calcification of the periosteal or medullary osteogenic elements would occur with greater ease than in another subject. I am not aware that such cases