566 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. and Gillespie have tried the effect of silver-wire setons instead of silk, but a good deal of inflammation is thus set up. I have tried this plan myself, but have given it up as causing too much irritation ; the wounds made by the wire heal slowly. Mr. Curling carries a double silk thread through the skin and tunica vaginalis with a curved needle, leaving a space of an inch or an inch and a half between the ends of the threads, which are withdrawn on the third or fourth day. Setons are now hut rarely used, owing to their uncer- tain action, but are reserved for cases of cystic hydrocele, and for others which have resisted the ordinary methods of treatment. (5) Injection.—The treatment of hydrocele by injection was known to the ancients. Celsus recommended a solution of nitre. Monro, Sharp, and others employed the method, hut used so strong a solution that much pain and irritation ensued. Sir James Earle revived the operation for the radical cure of hydrocele by means of injection, in 1791. Port wine and water was the favorite fluid, and spirit was also tried ; hut as these solutions varied a good deal in strength, a solution of sulphate of zinc, in the propor- tion of one drachm to a pint of water, was found to he more reliable. A syringe capable of holding from eight to sixteen ounces was used. Suffi- cient fluid was thrown into the sac of the hydrocele to distend it to its original size ; after retention of the fluid for a few minutes, it was allowed to escape through the canula, and then some fresh fluid was injected in the same manner as before. The operation of injecting a hydrocele is attended with pain, which runs up the spermatic cord to the lumbar region; the degree of pain varies in different cases, and is no test of the success or failure of the operation. Sir Ranald Martin recommended the use of tincture of iodine, one part to three of water; a small syringeful of the fluid was to be thrown in and allowed to remain. Out of 2393 cases,1 failure is said to have been met with in only one per cent. Mr. Curling uses the following solution: Iodi, 3ij ; Potassii Iodid. 3ss ; Sp. Yin. Rect. fsj. Inject f5l—ij, and allow the injection to remain. In young persons it may be used of half the strength. Sir William Fergusson injected the simple tincture of iodine, diluted as recom- mended by Sir Ranald Martin, and used for this purpose a small glass syringe with a platinum nozzle, which fitted accurately into the canula, and held about a drachm or two of fluid, a quantity sufficient for the cure of the largest hydrocele. Having tapped the hydrocele in the usual way, the surgeon withdraws the trocar, pushes the canula up to the guard, carefully draws off all the fluid, and throws in the injection. The liquid is diffused throughout the tunica vaginalis Ivy shaking the sac, and the canula is then withdrawn; the patient remains in bed after the operation, or, if the inflammation be not too severe, he may walk about the house. Generally in a day or two the swelling is almost as large as it was before the operation, hut it soon subsides, and as a rule a cure results. Mr. Curling thinks well of the suggestion of Dr. Ayres, and lias applied strapping after tapping and injection, and in some instances within an hour of the operation. The size of large hydroceles should be reduced by repeated tappings before injection. After a hydrocele has been tapped, and before it is injected, a careful examination of the testicle should be made; the gland is often enlarged, and if it be affected with syphilitic orchitis, suitable anti-syphilitic remedies should be administered. At times a cystic hydrocele is found coexisting with a vaginal hydrocele, and in some cases loose bodies will be found in the tunica vaginalis. If two hydroceles coexist, they may both be tapped and 1 Lancet, vol. i. 1842.