958 SCROFULO-TUBERCULOUS AND OTHER STRUCTURAL DISEASES OF BONES. I can attribute only to osteomalacia. Dr. Relm, of Frankfort, made at the fifty-fifth reunion of the Curiosi Naturae, a communication on infantile osteo- malacia.1 Recklinghausen and Relm have seen several of these cases. From the microscopical point of view, the hones present the same changes as those of adults ; the osseous trabeculae are almost entirely deprived of calcareous salts. In the epiphyses there is an extremely slight rachitic condition. The most remarkable fact is the extreme softness of the bones. Microscopically and clinically, infantile osteomalacia is characterized by slenderness of the skele- ton, the abnormal flexibility of the long hones coinciding with absence or in- significance of the epiphyseal enlargement, which is scarcely perceptible on the ribs. The bones of the legs, thighs, forearms, and arms, and the ribs, show curvatures. When the hones are touched or the children are made to walk, unquestionable manifestations of pain are provoked. Examination of the urine does not disclose anything noteworthy. It is important to observe that all the children traced or examined by Recklinghausen and Relin, were of the female sex and in their second year. The prognosis is better than in adults. Good nourishment, preparations of iron and of the phosphates, and cod- liver oil, have enabled M. Relm to save three patients out of four. It cannot he objected, with M. Fleiscli, that these were simple cases of rachitis. The histological examination made by Recklinghausen having disclosed the de- calcification peculiar to osteomalacia, and the cases followed by recovery having presented the same set of symptoms (except death) as those which ended fatally, it seems to me that we are not authorized to reject the diag- nosis of infantile osteomalacia without further ceremony. Physicians and surgeons who devote themselves to diseases of children ought in future to give their atttention to this point. (2) Sex.—Statistics show a notably greater frequency in the female sex. The proportion of 13 females to 3 males has been found by Gaspari; of 20 to 1, by Marjolin; of 36 to 11, by Beylard ; of 4 to 1, by Drouineau; of 10 to 3, by Nelaton. In women it is ordinarily after a number of confinements that the disease manifests itself. According to Kilian, no less than five con- finements are necessary to give rise to the disease in women predisposed to it, but observation has since shown that sometimes a single pregnancy suffices to g-ive rise to osteomalacia, even in its gravest form. According to all observers, pregnancy is, of all known causes, that of which the influence is the most potent and the most incontestable. Of 36 women affected with this myste- rious disease, Drouineau found 15 who had had children, and he noticed that those who were primiparse had not become pregnant until about thirty years of age. (3) Climate.—Osteomalacia has been seen in all latitudes. It is very rare in England, according to Curling; quite common on the shores of the Rhine and in the valleys associated with the basin of that river, according to Volk- mann. It is often observed in Bavaria, in northern Italy, and in Flanders. In Norway, according to Prosch, the plant called Herba ossifraga has the property of softening the bones of animals which eat it. They can be cured by mixing calcined bone-dust with their food. (4) Heredity.—There are very few facts to show the influence of this upon osteomalacia. The observation of Eckmann2 is always cited. This author reports that in a family which lived among the iron mines of Danemora, in Upland, there could be counted three generations, the different members of which were attacked, after puberty, with softening, fragility, and dis- tortion of the bones. No one in this family had been affected with vene- 1 Ueber Osteom. im Kinderalter (Berlin, klin. Woch., S. 706. 1882). 2 Dissert, med. desc. et casus aliquot osteomalacise sistens. Upsal, 1788.