711 TUMORS OF THE VULVA. one of the labia majora—rarely both—or the nymphae ; it may extend to the perineum, or a hsematoma of the vagina may involve a part of the vulva. The hemorrhage generally is venous, though it is not impossible that in some cases it may be arterial. A varicose condition of the vulvar veins creates a predisposition to the accident, but is not essential for its occurrence. Labor is the determining cause of vulvar hsematoma in the majority of cases, the effusion of blood occurring during or immediately after labor, or in child- bed ; the former is the more frequent. Nevertheless, it may happen in pregnancy, or independently of this condition ; in the latter case the accident has resulted from a fall, a blow, or simply from a violent muscular effort. The tumor varies in size from that of a pullet’s egg to that of a child’s head. The symptoms are the abrupt appearance at the vulva of a bluish tumor, which increases in size more or less rapidly; the tumor is fluctuating, doughy, or hard, according to the condition of the blood, the size of the swelling, its duration, and the changes that have occurred in its contents. Usually the blood-cavity is single, but Canivet1 has given an instance in which it was multiple: A girl twenty-six years of age had, two years before, received a kick upon the vulva, the injury affecting chiefly the left labium majus, which from that time was larger than the right. Upon examination, the affected labium contained a tumor the size of a pullet’s egg ; the tumor was extirpated, and it was found to have numerous septa, each containing a thick, chocolate- colored liquid, which was evidently altered blood ; the tumor weighed fifty grammes. Absorption generally occurs if the hsematoma is small; but if it is large, rupture may happen with immediate danger to life, or the tissues surround- ing it may be so compressed that gangrene will result, and as consequences secondary hemorrhage and liability to septicaemia. If the tumor is no larger than the fist, or an apple, absorption usually occurs; middle-sized tumors also are usually absorbed, but the time required is long, and in some cases inflammation and abscess follow. Treatment—Rest is the most important therapeutic means in all cases, and is all that is required if the tumor is small; if large and increasing, cold and compression may be used. If there is danger of rupture of the skin, that accident is to be anticipated by making an incision, but the longer that this incision can be delayed after the formation of the tumor—three or four days, for example—-the better. If the tumor, occurring in labor, be so large as to prevent the delivery of the child, it must be opened, emptied, and a cotton tampon dipped in some astringent solution firmly applied. In all cases in which an opening is made, or occurs spontaneously, local antiseptic treatment should be carefully enforced. Cancer of the Yulva.—Cancer of the vulva is a rare affection, forming, according to Conner’s statistics, one in twenty of all cases of cancer of the female genital organs ; one in forty, as compared with those primarily devel- oped in the uterus, according to the statement of Virchow, Mayer, and d’Espine. In the great majority of cases the epitheliomatous variety of the dis- ease is found, though the others, including the melanotic, may occur; a case of melanotic tumor of the vulva is reported by Bailly2 from Demarquay’s clinique. Most of the patients are over fifty years of age; one of McClintock’s, however, was forty-eight; one of West’s thirty-four, and another thirty-one; and one of Iviistner’s thirty-four. In one of Conner’s patients the disease appeared during pregnancy. The disease usually begins at the external surface of one of the labia majora, exceptionally in the nymphae or clitoris. A little hard 1 Bulletin de la Society Anatomique, 1875. 2 Gazette Hebdom., 1868.