805 SOLID TUMORS OF THE OVARY. early stage ; at a later period they become a source of marked local irritation, and often display a tendency to suppurate. The only treatment is by laparotomy. III. Hydatids of the Ovary. Hydatids are so rare in the ovary as to be clinically unimportant, though they have been found both in this organ and in the womb. The diagnosis will depend on the character of the fluid, which may be clear or turbid, but under the microscope contains “ booklets” from the young echinococci, or particles of the “cuticular” or sac membranes.1 Chadwick2 has shown that they are not affected by acetic acid ; and uric acid and' urea have been found by Boldini3 in echinococci. IV. Solid Tumors of the Ovary. Fibromata.—Fibroid tumortof the ovary is rare, but is met with often enough to deserve careful description. More frequently a large uterine fibroid is mistaken for it; and this is always possible when even a short pedicle exists, and the ovary on one side has become so amalgamated with the enlarging growth that it cannot be separately felt. Mention has already been made of a case in which my colleague, Dr. Hunter, removed an uterine fibroma with long pedicle, under the supposition that it was ovarian; and I have once seen an explorative incision made (and the laparotomy abandoned) in a similar case. True ovarian fibroids are developed from the stroma of the ovary, and consist mainly of fibrous tissue ; in a few cases, muscular fibre-cells have been found in them. In all respects they are analogous to uterine fibromata, except in their origin. Their size varies from that of an egg to that of a man’s head, rarely if ever larger; for, although Simpson, Schroeder, and Spiegelberg, all describe immense tumors of this kind, Virchow and Bantock think them to have been eysto-sarcomata, and Thomas4 shares this opinion. The sympto7ns of these growths may be inferred from what has just been said. A hard, solid mass is felt in one iliac region. Careful palpation shows this to be smooth, movable, and independent of the womb; menstruation is not much interfered with, for the other ovary performs its function as usual, and the patient’s health not at all, except in the minor way of local pressure. Fluctuation is absent; and when the rectum is explored by Simon’s method, no trace of an ovary can be found on the affected side. These symptoms, again, indicate the diagnosis. From cysts, these tumors will be known by the absence of fluctuation ; from uterine fibroids, by the separate mobility of the womb; from carcinomata, by their smoothness of surface and by the absence of constitutional taint. The prognosis is favorable as to life, as the only injury which they cause is by pressure on the surrounding organs. The treatment is extirpation by laparotomy, if the discomforts and impair- ment of health resulting from pressure, or from the mental anxiety of the patient, necessitate radical action. Otherwise abdominal section should not be advised; and the treatment should be limited to palliation of the less serious symptoms as they are developed. 1 Garrigues, Diagnosis of Ovarian Cysts, etc., p. 74. 1882. 3 Amer. Journal of Obstet., Feb. 1875. 3 Centralblatt f. Gyn., Bd. ii. S. 512. 1878. * Op cit., p. 676.