954 SCROFULO-TUBERCULOUS AND OTHER STRUCTURAL DISEASES OF BONES. bute all tlie phenomena of absorption of which bone-tissue may be the theatre.1 It is interesting to note that Durham, Langendorff and Mommsen, and others, have noticed points of sclerosis in osteomalacic bones (Dig. 1456). It is generally recognized that the bone-corpuscles have no vital activity and act like inert bodies. J. Busch went so far as to believe that the osteo- blast changed into an osteoclast in order to destroy its own work, like Pene- lope. Here are hypotheses enough ; histology has still much to do. The only points yet gained are that decalcification starts in the Plaversian canals and extends progressively to the whole system of lamellae of which these are the centres; that their edges are eroded as in ordinary osteitis; and that the medulla increases in quantity and reverts to the foetal condition. 3. Chemical Analysis of the Bones.—All analyses (Becquerel, Davy, Rostock, Rees and Buisson, Marchand, Schmidt, 0. Weber, Langendorff and Momm- sen, etc.) have furnished this uniform result, to wit, that the calcareous constit- uents are diminished in proportions which are always considerable, and which vary with the degree of the osteomalacia. The diminution of the earthy parts affects especially the phosphate of lime. According to Davy, the organic constituents bear to the calcareous the proportion of 74 to 26 ; according to Rostock of 79 to 20. Rees has investigated this proportion in the majority of the bones separately. I shall not reproduce more figures here, because figures cannot give any positive idea, on account of the varying degrees of softening in the bones examined by different chemists. It has been long known that osteomalacic bones are fat; they are oil}7, says Buisson. When exposed to the air, considerable quantities of fatty matter exude from their pores. I have at this moment a beautiful example of this under my eyes. It might be thought to be a specimen of gouty osteophytes. Mommsen, after having treated them with ether, found fat in the bones of Czerny’s patient in the proportion of 60.38 to 100 parts, instead of 24.31, which is the normal figure. The augmentation of the fat which takes the place of the bone-tissue is therefore enormous. But these figures must not be made a basis of generaliza- tion; they are exact only for the special cases which furnished them. The same observer, and in the same case, found, by calcination, in 100 parts of the ashes of normal bone, lime = 53.05 ; phosphoric acid = 43.98; and in 100 parts of the ash of an osteomalacic bone, lime = 44.48 ; phosphoric acid = 34.76. In bones which are much altered there is no longer any trace of glutine or chondrine found. Sometimes the marrow is acid, sometimes it is alkaline or neutral; this depends on the presence or absence of the abnormal acid (lactic) of which I shall soon speak. Among the abnormal substances which chemical analysis has discovered, I will call to mind the opaque albuminous bodies of Bence-Jones, found in the medulla by Virchow ;2 and lactic acid, the presence of which has been ob- served by Marchand and by C. Schmidt.3 O. Weber,4 Moers and Muck,5 and Mommsen6 have not found either the deutoxydhydrate of albumen (identical with the tritoxyproteine of Mulder) or lactic acid. Symptomatology of Osteomalacia.—Whatever may fee the form of osteoma- lacia, the symptoms which accompany it depend either directly upon the nature of the atfection, or secondarily on disturbances of the functions of dif- ferent organs. The onset is always marked by more or less acute pains, which are increased at night by the warmth of the bed, and which last while 1 E. Vincent, De quelques travaux recents sur le systeme osseux (Revue Mensuelle de Medecine et de Cliirurgie, 1880). 2 Virchow, Archiv, 1852. 3 Ann. d. Chemie, Bd. lxi. 4 Weber, Archiv, Bd. xxxiv. 6 Deutch. Arch. f. klin. Med., Bd. v. 6 Mommsen, loc. cit.