INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE (ESOPHAGUS. 26 2 Mackenzie, op. cit., vol. ii. p. 154. 3 Cohen, op. cit., p. 291. progress of the disease in its earlier stages. Dilatation of the constricted canal is allowable only at the commencement. When alimentation becomes difficult, the stomach-tube may be cautiously used at tirst. At a later date a catheter may be retained in the oesophagus a few days at a time, for the purpose of injecting food into the stomach. Otherwise, rectal alimentation is indicated. This should not be delayed until it is absolutely necessary. Occa- sional rest to the part, afforded by resort to this mode of alimentation, some- times temporarily restores the ability to swallow. In the later stages, especially after ulceration has begun, there is great danger of penetrating the walls of the oesophagus with instruments, Fig. 1175. whether inserted for probing, for dilating, or for conveying nutriment. (Esophagostomy offers no hope of relief. Gastrostomy may permit the prolongation of life in cases favor- able for the operation. Resection of the oeso- phagus, partial cesophagectomy, seems in the light of present histological pathology to pre- sent considerable chance of benefit, if not of cure, provided that the whole of the diseased structure can he included in the excised por- tion of the oesophagus. The procedure is ap- plicable only to disease of moderate extent, involving the upper portion of the gullet. At any stage of the disease, threatened suffo- cation, whether from compression of the air- tube or from paralysis of the laryngeal muscles, may demand tracheotomy. Stricture of the (Esophagus. Traumatic stricture of the oesophagus. (After Mackenzie.) Stricture of the oesophagus is occasionally congenital, and sometimes inflammatory; but it is much more frequently cicatricial, occurring usually as the result of injury to the part or of disease within the organ, in its walls, or directly outside. The intrinsic injuries are most fre- quently laeerative, and the diseases ulcera- tive. Cicatricial stricture is most frequent at the uppermost portion of the oesophagus, but it also occurs lower down, even just above the cardiac orifice of the stomach.1 Traumatic stricture has been known to extend from within half an inch of the cricoid cartilage to within an inch of the cardia2 (Fig. 1175), but in most instances it does not extend over more than three inches. Usually there is but one stricture, but in some instances there are two, three, or as many as four.3 The occlusion of the canal is occasionally complete, and may vary between this extreme and very slight obstruction. 1 Maury, American Journ. Med. Sciences, April, 1870, p. 369 ; Rawdon, Liverpool Med. and Surg. Rep., vol. iii. p. 117 ; Reid, New York Medical Journal, Oct. 1877, p. 405.