935 SCROFULO-TUBERCULOUS AFFECTIONS OF BONES. especially in the adult. I except only the joints of the carpus and tarsus, including the wrist and the ankle, in young patients, whose bones, not hard in the healthy state, soften so fast, when they become inflamed, as to be easily divisible with the knife. Then the joints and the bones may be tunnelled with the red-hot iron, according to the expression and practice of M. Ollier. Cauterization ought to be tried before proceeding to a more radical operation, especially in the foot. In the hand, the great advantage of obtaining a movable limb by resection, ought to lead to choosing this operation more readily if the first cauterizations with nitrate of silver or with the hot iron do not bring about a prompt and sensible amelioration. (c) Scraping the Bone, Trephining, Gouging.—These operations attack the bone directly in order to remove from it the diseased parts. The indications are almost the same as for cauterization, according to the part of the bone affected. Scraping out a joint (arthroxesis) does not deserve the credit which has been attached to it of late, no matter in what way it is performed. In fact, if it is practised by passing the sharp curette through the fistulous tracks, or through incisions which do not expose the whole of the joint, it is insufficient. We are not sure of removing the whole of the diseased tissue, and we act in the dark, in a case in which intervention is not justifiable unless it attains its object with certainty. If the joint is freely opened, we can, it is true, form a better idea of the bone-lesions, and we can no doubt practise excision with more ease and sureness; but even here intervention will miss its object, as far as the bone is concerned; for it is not enough to remove the fungous growths with the curette, and to scrape the diseased bone-surfaces, but it is necessary to remove them completely ; if this be not done, osseous layers will be left behind, the enlarged alveoli of which are full of tuberculous matter. When applied to the synovial membrane and to the soft parts, scraping may, on the other hand, have the disadvantage of removing too much, and of cutting off parts which would be of use in the reconstitution of the joint. This is also M. Ollier’s opinion. On the other hand, abrasion can only leave an anfractuous cavity which is ill adapted to complete drainage, and consequently exposes the patient to retention of septic liquids. For these different reasons, scraping and gouging of the joints do not seem to me to be acceptable operations, and I generally prefer resection, which is more sure to get rid of the tuberculous patches, and is less dangerous, because it leaves a cavity which is free from diverticula, and from which fluids can be entirely removed by drainage. In cases of tuberculous juxta-epiphyseal or diaphyseal osteopathy, gouging is an operation the excellence of which no one can question. It has been practised from all antiquity. Nowadays, with the bloodless method of Esmarch, it has become a procedure of extreme ease and certainty. As blood does not flow into the wound, it is easy to follow up the fungous growths and sequestra, into all the diverticula of the osseous cavities, and to cut off the diseased parts from the walls of the latter. Antiseptic dressings render this operation absolutely harmless. When the seat of the osteopathy has been diagnosticated, the soft tissues are to be incised down to the periosteum, and the whole is to be detached with an elevator. If there is a shell of new-formed bone-tissue surrounding'a sequestrum, this shell should be opened by means of a trephine or a chisel and mallet; then the sequestrum should be extracted and the fungous growths of the cavity removed with a curette, and finally its diseased walls must be gouged off. If necessary, when the cavity is deep and the region is suitable, the floor of the excavation is perforated with a trephine for the introduction of a drainage- tube, that thus we may prevent the pus from stagnating as if in a basin. Ought cauterization to be always combined with gouging ? It appears to