107 FISTULA IN ANO. hardness externally the site of the abscess, he may plunge his knife into itr and thus make a complete fistula through which of course he passes his direc- tor. If he cannot feel any hardness or see any discoloration to guide him to the situation of the sac of the abscess, the best way of proceeding is to bend a silver probe-director into the form of a hook, and then hook this into the internal aperture, and bring the point down close under the skin ; he then cuts upon it, thrusts it through, and completes the operation. In operating upon women suffering from fistula (especially when the sinus is near the perineum), I cut as little as possible, for anything like too free incisions are apt to end in incontinence of feces, or, at all events, in such par- tial loss of power in the sphincter as to prevent the patient retaining flatus, a result which I need scarcely say is a most disagreeable one. Even in males, incontinence of wind and liquid feces almost always results from cutt ing the muscles, and principally the internal sphincter, in more than one place. It should be made a rule to divide the sphincters at right angles to the direc- tion of their fibres. If the muscles are divided at all obliquely, good union is never obtained, and even in comparatively slight cases incontinence may follow. The method which I have adopted in cases of incontinence of flatus and liquid feces, is the use of Paquelin’s thermo-cautery. Its judicious employ- ment will stimulate the muscular fibres and cause them to contract, and by diminishing the circumference of the anus induce action of the fibres which are left. After an operation for fistula, the bowels should be confined for three days; a mild purge must then be administered, and full diet allowed. The wool usually comes out when the bowels act; if not, I gently remove it. As a matter of fact I generally remove a portion of the wool the day after the operation, leaving only some at the bottom of the wound. If the whole plug is left in, the patient will probably be very uncomfortable, as he cannot easily get rid of wind, and the danger of primary hemorrhage being over in twenty-four hours, there is nothing gained by retaining a mass of wool in the bowel. Very little dressing is required in the after-treatment of fistula; in fact, it is better to do too little than too much. The wound should be gently cleansed every day by allowing some weak Condy’s solution or carbolic lotion (1 in 60) to flow over it, then tenderly dried with cotton-wool, and lastly a little wool soaked in olive oil should very gently be laid in the wound. Only when the wound is sluggish do I prescribe lotions ; then, according to circumstances, blackwash, carbolic acid, sulphate of zinc or copper, tartrate of iron, or friar’s balsam, may be advantageous. Iodoform, finely powdered or in ointment, I have found to be an excellent application. Although the surgeon should not interfere with nature’s work, he must be always on the watch during the healing process for any burrowing or formation of fresh sinuses. Whenever the discharge from a wound is more than its extent of surface seems to warrant, the surgeon may be sure that burrowing has commenced, and should search diligently for the sinus at once, for the longer it is left the larger and deeper it will get. Sometimes it is under the edges of the wound that it commences; at other times, at the end of the wound internally or externally; and occasionally it seems to dive down from the base of the main fistula. Such a sinus should be laid open at once. The patient, too, should always be encouraged to report immediately any pain in or near the healing- fistula ; often he will be the first to discover, by the existence of some unpleasant sensation, the commencement of a small abscess or sinus, and will be able also to indicate its situation. It is important that the recumbent position should be kept for some time, but not necessarily in bed. After the first week or ten days subsequent to the