103 FISTULA IN ANO. variety there is an internal opening, and consequently it is an internal fistula, but there is no external opening, wherefore it must be called a blind internal Jistula. The blind internal form of fistula results usually from some injury to, or ulceration of, the lining membrane of the rectum, or abscess in the con- nective tissue beneath the mucous membrane, and it is most commonly found in consumptive patients. Now, these terms “complete,” “blind external,” and “ blind internal” are useful, but surgically they are of little moment; there is, however, an impor- tant division of fistulse as regards both patient and surgeon, and that is into anal fistula? and pelvic or rectal fistula?. An anal fistula is one which commences in the skin a few lines from the margin of the anus, opens just inside the orifice, passes at most under a few fibres of the external sphincter, and is trivial and can be rapidly and safely cured. By pelvic or rectal fistula I mean a fistula which, commencing pro- bably by an abscess in the ischio-rectal fossa, passes underneath both sphincter muscles, and opens possibly high up in the bowel, indeed in the pelvis. This is the fistula which is dangerous to the patient, and it will call forth all the knowledge and experience of the surgeon to bring it to a successful issue. A patient with fistula should be examined in the following manner: He should be placed upon a hard couch, on the side upon which the disease is supposed to be situated, the buttocks being brought close to the edge of the couch, and the knees drawn up. The anus and surrounding parts should be carefully inspected to detect any visible malady. The orifice of a sinus may be seen, or some discoloration of the skin may show the site of the disease; then, feeling gently all around the anus with the forefinger, the surgeon will often, by the induration, detect the course and position of the sinus, which feels like a pipe or piece of wire beneath the skin. Having satisfied himself in these respects, he passes the probe into the external aperture, holding it with a very light hand, and letting it almost find its own way. In many cases, as I have before said, it will pass right into the bowel ; when the probe has been passed as far as it will go without using any force, the surgeon in- troduces the forefinger of the left or right hand into the rectum, and feels for the internal opening of the fistula, if the probe has not passed through it; having found it, he can with the other hand guide the prohe towards it. The internal opening is usually situated just within the anus, in the depres- sion which exists between the external and internal sphincters. I think that the reason that the internal opening is situated so often in this position, is because when the abscess forms, as in most cases it does, just outside of the anus, it does not burrow deeply, but passes close under the external sphincter ; it thus is prevented from ascending higher up the howel by the thick band of the internal sphincter, and consequently is turned inwards, and makes its way through the lax areolar tissue, in the space between the two muscles. When the abscess really commences in the ischio-rectal fossa, it burrows deeply, and then most usually passes beneath the internal sphincter, and opens, if at all, high up in the rectum. Occasionally more than one internal opening exists, and I have many times seen what the late Mr. Syme declared could not occur—viz., two internal openings in the same patient at the same time. It is all-important that this internal aperture be felt with the finger (so that in operating it may he included in the incision), for not infrequently, from the tortuous nature of the fistula, the probe cannot readily be got through it. This is markedly the case in the horse-shoe form of fistula, which is not uncommon. The sinus here runs around, generally dorsally, from one side of the anus to the other, so that the external and internal openings are placed on opposite sides of the bowel. This variety, if not properly diagnosed, is rarely cured by one