689 TEAKS OF THE PERINEUM. be freshened with scissors or knife—the former are generally preferred. The operator may with the scissors make a slight cut in the median line upon the recto-vaginal wall, to mark the apex of the surface to be freshened, and a similar cut on each side of the vulvar orifice at points directly opposite, to mark the anterior limits of the denudation. The assistants who hold the lower limbs, also with the thumbs, or with the index and middle fingers of the hands next the patient, retract the labia, pressing downward and outward, so that the surfaces to be denuded are freely exposed and made level. The operator begins upon one side at the lower margin of the vulva, cutting a thin strip of tissue—forceps or tenaculum being used to hold the part first cut— carries the section to the opposite side, then back again, and thus on until the entire surface is denuded. Hemorrhage is rarely troublesome, especially if scissors are used, and should it occur in this or any other peri- neoplastic method, may be arrested by hot water, or by compressing or tying with catgut the bleeding vessel; care must be taken not to cut a varicose vein if such should be found, as is sometimes the case, just at the vulvar entrance. Fig. 1385 represents the denuded surface with the sutures introduced ; it will be observed that the latter, with the exception of that last introduced, lie in the recto-vaginal wall, and are completely hidden. Fig. 1385. Fig. 1386. Perineoplasty. (After Thomas.) Perineoplasty; “ butterfly” denudation. (After Hildebrandt.) In Fig. 1386, from Hildebrandt,1 the “butterfly” form of freshened surface is represented ; in this too the sutures are indicated, and it will be observed that, in addition to the external or perineal sutures, there are three vaginal stitches. The broken lines of the sutures appearing at the denuded surface, are given this form to indicate that they are buried beneath the surface. The Flap Method.—In the operation hitherto represented, the tissue obtained in denuding the surfaces is cut away, but in the method by flaps it is retained. 1 Billroth, Handbuch der Frauenkranklieiten. VOL. VI.—44