1128 APPENDIX. the fault of the cooking, and not of the vegetables. Pork should be boiled three hours, having been previously soaked in water, to abstract the salt, for three hours, the water being changed twice in that time; when cold and cut in slices, with a piece of bread and a slice of onion, it makes an excellent lunch ; cut in slices and toasted over coals, it is sweet and good. Coffee should be roasted over a slow fire, constantly stirring it until it becomes of a chestnut-brown color, and not burnt as is so commonly done. It should be boiled for twenty minutes, set on one side, sweetened, well stirred, and a little cold water added to cause the grounds to settle. Cabbage is more wholesome when cut in shreds and eaten with a little vinegar, pepper, and salt, than when cooked. All fried meats are unwholesome ; they should be boiled or broiled. The foregoing instructions relate mainly to the duties in general of all medical officers. Before giving the specific duties of each grade of medical officer in an army, a brief outline is here presented of the medical organization of an army in the field., taking for illustration that of the Army of the Potomac, which reached so high a degree of efficiency, and of which there remain the most complete records. An army corps consists of divisions, brigades, and regiments. To each corps there is a “ medical directorto each of the three or more divisions of a corps, a “ surgeon-in-chiefto each of the three or more brigades compos- ing the division, an officer of similar title; and to each regiment forming the brigade, three surgeons. The division is the working unit of organization of the medical department, and is provided with an equipment of ambulances, wagons, tents, supplies, and men for establishing a field hospital. The following table will show at a glance the medical equipment of the first division of each of the army corps of the Army of the Potomac on the opening of the Wilderness campaign in May, 1864. The army was then in the highest condition of discipline and organization, and the material carried was at its minimum. Hospital Organization, Army of the Potomac, at the beginning of the “ Wilderness” Campaign, May, 1864. Army Corps. Division. No. of brigade. No. of Regiment. No. of men. No. of hospital tents. No. of army wagons. No. of medicine wagons. No. of ambu- lances. Second .... 1st 4 21 8000 22 14 4 59 Fifth .... 1st 3 21 8100 25 14 3 57 Sixth .... 1st 4 17 8000 24 17 4 48 Ambulance Corps.—The ambulance corps was instituted in accordance with the plan of Surgeon Jonathan Letterman, U. S. A., in 1862, and was enacted into a law by Act of Congress, approved March, 1864. It consists of ambulance-wagons (Figs. 1530, 1531, 1532)—commonly with us in America designated as “ ambulances”—of the necessary men and animals, of medicine- wagons and army wagons, and the tents (Fig. 1534) and other quartermaster’s material used in the field hospitals. A captain of the line, under the medical director, is the commander of the ambulances of the army corps, and to each division there is a lieutenant of the line who commands and is responsible for the division ambulances; he is the acting assistant quartermaster of the division ambulance corps, and is responsible for all the material and the tents and other quartermaster’s property used for the field hospitals. By this very practical and convenient arrangement the medical officer is relieved from much care, and is enabled to give his whole attention to the wounded and sick. The number of ambulances and men varies with the number and