CONDITIONS WHICH MAY COMPLICATE DISEASES OP THE URETHRA. 523 point of determining whether this vitiation of the blood is produced by ab- sorption of fully formed urine, or by a defect of elimination in the work of the kidneys. It is between these two hypotheses that we must still hesitate. Whilst, by the works of Maisonneuve, de Saint-Germain, Sedillot, and Reliquet, the theory of direct absorption of wholly formed urine by a point of lesion in the urinary passages, is definitively proved, a fourth theory, already vaguely indicated in the thesis of Perdrigeon, is coming forward. This is the renal theory. In 1856 Yerneuil found lesions of the kidneys at the autopsy of a patient who had died of urinary fever after the use of the sound, and he inclined to refer the accidents observed during the life of the patient to the functional disturbance of the kidney. Not long after, Broil1 re- jected entirely direct absorption of fully formed urine, and admitted exclu- sively a defect in the depuration of the blood, by a disturbance of reflex origin in the secretion of urine. Civiale (1860) distinguished between urinary fever- independent of any surgical operation, and which may be due to nephritis,, and that other urinary fever which he calls urethro-vesical fever, which is due to absorption by the urethra and bladder of stagnant and more or less altered urine. In the works of Philips, Mauvais, and especially Marx, the exclusively renal theory predominates; Dolbeau (1864) declares himself thoroughly convinced of it; Malherbe (1872) defends it resolutely in his- thesis. But shortly afterwards Gosselin and Reliquet affirm again the direct absorption by torn mucous membranes, and Gosselin insists especially upon the part played by alterations of the urine. The two theories of phlebitis and of nervous exhaustion belong to history, and are absolutely untenable; there remain the theory of direct absorption and the renal theory ; equally rational, equally in accord with recent advances relative to the pathological physiology of fever, they both make urinary fever the result of a systemic intoxication with the constituents of the urine ; the first admits the resorption of these constituents by a point of lesion in the urinary passages, the second maintains their non-elimination by a chronically altered kidney, or by one the function of which is temporarily disturbed by a passing congestion of reflex origin. The latter has on its side the experi- ments of Claude Bernard and of Barreswill,2 showing that after nephrectomy the proportion of urea increases sensibly in the blood, and that the increased gastric and intestinal secretions then become the channels for its elimination; whence the gastric symptoms, the digestive disturbances, the diarrhoea, and the vomiting, which are soon observed in animals which have undergone ablation of the kidneys. On the other hand, the experiments of Ivuss and Susini3 have proved the possibility of direct absorption, by establishing clearly that if the vesical mucous membrane is devoid of all absorbing power in the state of health, it is far from being the same when the epithelium is altered or destroyed. It is between these two theories, then, that it is proper to choose, or rather it is necessary to subject them to the clinical test, and to see if one of them can explain, to the exclusion of the other, the various occurrences of urinary fever. The acute, frank attack—that, for example, which follows catheter- ization with too large an instrument, or an ill-managed one, or, again, the passage of a bougie which has produced an abrasion of the canal—can hardly be explained by direct absorption. Ilow is it to be supposed, indeed, that this delicate abrasion has been able to become the door of entrance to so rapid a poisoning by the urine, even if this were altered, alkaline and 1 Graz. Med. de Lyon, p. 343 et seq. 1858. 2 Letjons sur les Liquides de l’Organisme, p. 31 et seq. Paris, 1859. 3 Susini, De l’lmpermeabilite de l’Epithelium Vesical. These de Strasbourg, 1867.