190 URINARY CALCULUS. which is essential to all accurate searching.1 In any case when pain is great, the bladder very irritable, or the patient nervous—and particularly for a second search after one negative exploration—it is wiser to use ether than to risk failure without it. If the stone is movable and the bladder contains fluid, when the pelvis is raised higher than the shoulders, the stone will roll away from the tender neck of the bladder and rest at the fundus behind the trigone, where it is most easily found. The surgeon, standing at the patient’s right side, introduces the searcher gently, making its heel slide along the membranous urethra and the floor of the prostatic sinus, and aiding its passage through these segments of the urethra by pressing the skin over the pubes towards the feet, with the left hand, so as to relax the suspensory ligament of the penis. In some cases the whole search is made less painful by keeping the ligament so relaxed through the entire sitting. When the heel of the searcher enters the bladder it should be carried gently down the inclined plane formed by the base of the bladder until it is arrested. Most often the stone will be struck at this point. If not, then the toe of the searcher should be gently rotated as far as it will go, first toward one and then toward the other side of the bladder. Next, the searcher is drawn forward, well inclined toward one side, and by rotating the cylindrical handle, gentle taps are given to the wall of the bladder, along the entire side as far forward as the instrument can be drawn. It is then slid back to the fundus along the course it has just traversed. This double pass- age is repeated on the other side of the bladder. Next, the beak of the sound is reversed, and the whole floor of the bladder is swept by to-and-fro lateral motions of its tip, as it is brought forward to the vesical neck and carried hack again to the fundus. If the result is negative, some water may be drawn off and the search re- peated, or, an expedient which I have found of great value, the patient may be asked to stand erect with the searcher still in his bladder, and the urine may be drawn off through the searcher while he is standing, leaning forward upon a chair for support. As the urine flows away, the beak of the sound should be held quite near the neck of the bladder, and rotated from side to side until every drop of urine has passed. It is difficult for even a minute stone to escape detection by this method. Should a stone be touched, the bulbous tip of the searcher passed over its surface will indicate whether it is rough or smooth. The character of the click produced by tapping the stone gives a clue to its composition, a dull, low-pitched sound indicating a soft pliosphatic stone, while a clear, high- pitched click indicates uric acid or oxalate of lime. If, when the patient is quiet, the sound strikes a stone in being rotated first to one side and then to the other, it is probable that two stones are present. Better evidence as to the composition of the stone is furnished by the condi- tion of the urine and the crystals it contains, than by the nature of the click. Thus, if crystals of oxalate of lime, uric acid, cystine, or triple phosphates abound in the urine, it is fair to presume that at least the last coatings of the stone are composed of similar crystals. Another point in the diagnosis of stone is its size. This may be approxi- mately ascertained as follows : The searcher is pushed to the back wall of the bladder, and then gently brought forward, tapping the vesical wall on the side upon which the stone lies until the latter is touched. Now the sliding collar on the shaft of the instrument is pushed down to the meatus, 1 The injection of a four-per-cent, solution of the hydrochlorate of cocaine in some cases makes the use of ether unnecessary.