MODES OF EXPLORATION. 669 1 Hegar und. Kaltenbaeh, op. cit. and the neck of the uterus, and foreign bodies in the bladder, may be recog- nized by abdonhno-vaginal examination. If the band and huger be placed upon the sides of the uterus, and the former press the organs and tissues between the two downward and forward toward the latter, tumors may be felt, as also the round ligaments, and, if the uterus be anteverted or ante- flexed, the ovary; Sir James Simpson advised, in examining the latter, not only to antevert the uterus, but also to turn it by the uterine sound toward the opposite side, so as to stretch the broad ligament of the side examined. In most cases the examination of the ovaries is made better by the abdomino- rectal than by the abdomino-vaginal method. If a tumor be discovered, its form, size, and consistence, and its connections with adjacent parts are to be learned. In examining the right side of the pelvis one or two Angers of the right hand will be introduced into the vagina, and one or two of the left hand for examining the left side. Abdomino-reclal Examination.—In this examination usually two fingers are introduced into the rectum, and then, the external hand pressing the uterus backwards and downwards, the fundus is reached, and the entire outline of the organ can be followed.1 The utero-sacral ligaments can be examined, as well as the broad ligaments, external pressure being used to bring them nearer the fingers. So too, by means of this pressure, the ovarian ligament and the ovary can be felt. Enlargement of the oviducts, and small tumors of the ovary or of the broad ligaments, can be, as a rule, more easily recog- nized by this than by abdomino-vaginal examination. This method is im- portant in cases of absence or imperfect development of the uterus, or absence of the ovaries, as well as in determining the presence of pathological swellings or growths. Vesico-vaginal and vesico-rectal touch have been urged by JSToeggerath for, among other purposes, the diagnosis of obscure tumors of or near the uterus, to complete the diagnosis of uterine inversion, and for the diagnosis of con- genital absence or malformation of the uterus. Redo-vaginal touch is made with the index finger in one, and the thumb in the other canal; or the index of each hand may be used, one finger being passed into the rectum and the other into the vagina. Opportunity for abdomino-uterine examination is rarely offered, but Ilegar and Kaltenbaeh advise that, if the neck of the womb will admit the finger, or if it have been dilated for some other pupose, an examination should be made by the finger passed into the uterine cavity, combined with abdominal palpation. In posterior displacements of the womb, if adhesions prevent re- position, Schultze performs what he has termed intra-uterine reposition, as well for the recognition as for the removal of the obstacles ; the finger of one hand is introduced into the previously dilated uterus, while those of the o+her are applied to the abdominal wall relaxed by anaesthesia. Mediate Touch, or Examination with the Uterine Sound or Prore.— The uterine sound, also called a redresseur or hysterometer, according to the spe- cial use made of it, is a metallic rod, curved and graduated, having a somewhat bulb-like enlargement at its uterine end, and a knob two inches and a half from this; it may be .rigid or flexible. The uterine probe is usually made of virgin silver or of plated flexible copper, though it may be of hard rubber or of whalebone, is about the thickness of the probe found in the surgeon’s dressing-case, and is quite flexible. The flexibility of the latter instrument facilitates its introduction into a tortuous cervical canal, or an irregularly en-