INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. 536 made in the course of the canal with a trocar and canula, and the newly formed canal kept open by bougies. When the urethra is altogether absent and there is no escape of urine through an abnormal channel, an opening must be made into the distended bladder either through the perineum, or better still above the pubis, if the obstruction of the urethra be likely to prove permanent. The formation of a canal in the normal situation may be attempted if the surgeon thinks tit, but these cases are very unpromising, and, when established, the passage must he kept constantly dilated by means of instruments. At times infants are born with imperforate anus, the bowel opening into the posterior part of the urethra, through which some meconium is discharged. A case of this kind was successfully treated by Sir William Fergusson, by passing a director down the urethra and laying open the canal and rectum in the perineum. Hypospadia and epispadia are considered in the article on Injuries and Diseases of the Urethra.1 Phimosis and Paraphimosis.—Congenital phimosis is due in most cases to an excess of development of the foreskin, the orifice and mucous lining of which are tight. The foreskin will not pass backwards and uncover the glans, even when the penis is flaccid, and owing to its pressure the organ is but ill- developed. In some instances the orifice of the prepuce is wanting: the urine then collects within it, causing its distention ; the penis becomes erect owing to the pressure and irritation ; and the child is in great distress. If allowed to remain, sloughing would eventually take place, hut this is prevented by the surgeon, who slits up or circumcises the foreskin according to its conformation. In some instances the foreskin is not redundant, but presents a contracted orifice, constituting another variety of congenital phimosis, to which the term atrophic has been applied. The foreskin may be too tight to be drawn back over the glans when the penis is distended, or it may be in that dangerous condition which admits of the glans being uncovered with diffi- culty. In these cases, on connection, the foreskin is forcibly retracted over the glans penis, which rapidly swells and prevents reduction by the patient, a condition of paraphimosis resulting. In infants, the prepuce is normally redundant, but as long as the glans penis can be uncovered, all will come right when the organ is more devel- oped. In cases of atresia prcepatii, or when the orifice of the prepuce is smaller than that of the urethra, and the prepuce is distended whenever the child urinates, circumcision should be done. The operation is performed as a religious rite amongst the Jews, and is rarely attended with an accident, though occasionally a child dies of hemor- rhage or erysipelas. Owing to the induration of the glans penis, masturbation and syphilis are less rife amongst the circum- cised than the uncircumcised. Acquired phimosis may follow inflammatory attacks dne to gonorrhoea, balanitis, or chancroids beneath the foreskin. A series of chancroids or ulcers around the orifice of the prepuce, when healed, will give rise to so much contraction that a well-marked phimosis will result. (Edema of the prepuce from inflammation, or from heart-disease, will cause a formidable- looking phimosis. Fig. 1357. o End of foreskin removed entire, and distended. The pin-hole-like orifice of the prepuce is well shown at o. * See pp. 487, 496, supra.