URO-GENITAL FISTULA). 717 Xon-puerperal fistulse result from vaginal lithotomy; from cystotomy done for the cure of cystitis; from accidental traumatisms, such as gunshot wounds, or those caused by falling or sitting upon pointed bodies which, entering the vagina, penetrate the vesico-vaginal wall; from the pres- sure of pessaries, too long worn, of too great size, or of unsuitable form, wearing away the part of the anterior vaginal wall with which they are in contact, or from that of vesical calculi, or of foreign bodies, as for ex- ample a needle case, introduced into the bladder, and similarly producing perforation of the wall, but from its vesical side; from ulcerations, cancer- ous, tuberculous, or syphilitic; from abscesses in the vesico-vaginal wall; and from tumors. Deroubaix mentions a case in which a fistula was caused by the violent introduction of the finger into the vagina of a woman while she was urinating. In some instances a vesico-vaginal fistula has been pro- duced by accidentally tearing or cutting into the bladder in an attempt to form a vagina where this passage has been congenitally absent. Symptoms and Diagnosis.—The dominant fact is the escape of urine by the vagina. This escape may be constant or intermittent; it may vary with the position of the patient; all or only a part of the urine may thus pass invol- untarily. In spite of careful cleanliness, the sufferer diffuses around her an ammoniacal odor, the external organs of generation and the adjacent parts of the thighs are inflamed, swelled, and excoriated ; and the external surface of the buttocks is also inflamed. Calculous deposits may occur in the vagina, about the borders of the fistula, and in the bladder. Menstruation is in many cases suppressed, in others normal, and in still others irregular; there is relative sterility, which has been attributed to the poisonous influence of the urine upon the spermatozoids; according to Simon’s observations, should impregnation occur, abortion or premature labor follows. A digital examination is sufficient in some cases to detect the fistula, if it be urethro-vaginal or vesico-vaginal, and of notable size. In all cases a visual examination should also be made, and this is best done by having the patient lie upon her side, while the anterior vaginal wall is exposed with a Sims’s speculum. If the destruction of the vesico-vaginal wall has been extensive,, more or less of the anterior vesical wall may be seen protruding into the vagina in the form of a soft tumor of a vivid red color. The uterine sound or probe may be used if the fistulous opening be small; the instrument may be intro- duced through either the vagina or the urethra. Still failing to recognize the opening in the vesico-vaginal wall, a colored fluid—warm milk is very good for the purpose—may be injected into the bladder, when the observer watches its escape, either by drops or in a stream, into the vagina, and is thus guided to the discovery of the opening. Should, on the other hand, the fluid not escape through any part of the urethro-vesico-vaginal wall, but be found entering the vagina from the os uteri, it would show that the opening was between the bladder and the uterus. But if one of the ureters empties into the vagina, or into the uterus, the diagnosis is more difficult. In case of either of these lesions, one-half of the urine is passed through the urethra, and the other half escapes involuntarily ; now, if having this obvious truth in mind, the surgeon make the patient, immediately after emptying her bladder, sit for two hours or more on a suit- able vessel, this will contain at the end of that time the urine which has escaped involuntarily; then by catheterization or by voluntary action the bladder may emptied into another vessel, and the amounts compared ; if about the same, the proof is conclusive, after excluding any error by the pre- vious examination, that the quantities discharged have been from the two ureters. Again, if there be a uretero-vaginal fistula, by careful exposure of