501 VICES OF CONFORMATION OF THE URETHRA. Fig. 1351. Section showing the sutures applied. spaclic opening, I nevertheless advise, as in the case of hypospadia, to attempt to construct first the glandular portion of the new canal, at the same time that the straightening of the penis is effected. This way of doing has the advantage, if successful, of facilitating the second stage, which then consists only in the reproduction of the penile portion of the canal, from the base of the glans to the level of the epispadic opening. I have found that it contributes to the success of this second stage to employ a retained catheter, pass- ing through the epispadic opening, and intended to divert the urine, which, without this precaution and on account of the incontinence from which most epispadians suffer, Avould constantly bathe the wounds on the dorsal surface of the penis, and might prevent their union. Before proceeding to the third stage, that is to say, the junction of the two portions of the canal, I have in a number of cases adopted a little complementary operation, which has for its object to perfect the result as regards symmetry of form. In most epispadians the prepuce is of exaggerated dimensions, and forms at the lower surface of the penis a sort of cutaneous prolongation, which is very disfiguring, and which may even become a hindrance to coitus. On the other hand, after the formation of the new canal according to my method, the skin of the dorsal surface is extremely thin and of a rosy color, somewhat like that of the mucous membrane, and disagreeable in appearance. I have obviated at one time both these defects, by transplanting the exuberant prepuce above the glans, as Thiersch also has advised with a slightly different object, and by making use of it to cover the upper surface of the penis with normal skin. To do this, after having vivified for a suitable distance the upper surfaces of the corpora cavernosa, I make, in the thickness of the prepuce and at the base of the glans, a large buttonhole, through which I pass the head of the penis; and afterwards the two folds of the prepuce, having been freed by dissection, are applied to its dorsal surface. It only requires a few points of suture on the corona of the glans to fix the prepuce in this new position. This little com- plementary operation has, besides, the advan- tage of permitting the occlusion of any points which may have escaped union after the pre- vious operation. Third stage: Junction of the tivo Portions of the Canal.—When the new canal has been car- ried up to the neighborhood, of the epispadic opening, the latter is seen in the form of an infundibuliform fistula, which burrows deeply behind the pubis, and which may he easily obliterated without the help of any flap. It is sufficient, in fact, to practise a free vivi- fication, which is carried as far as possible along the walls of this infundibulum, and then to approximate the opposite surfaces by means of a few points of shotted suture. If union is not complete on the first occasion, the operation may be repeated, so to speak, indefinitely, until the final occlusion of the fistula. As regards restoration of the external shape, the procedure which I have Fig. 1352. Definitive result of operation for epi- spadia: compare with Fig. 0044.