627 DERMOID CYSTS IN THE TESTICLE AND SCROTUM. filled with changed cells. After the patient’s death, deposits of medullary cancer were found in the lymphatic glands, lungs, etc. These cystic tumors, which attack one testicle only, are found at the middle period of life, and if not removed by operation will attain to a considerable size. Mr. H. V. Carter has reported1 the case of a child under three years of age, in one of whose testicles were a number of cysts, varying in size from that of a millet-seed to that of a horse-bean, containing a clear, glairy mucus, and lined with ciliated epithelium. In cystic disease the swelling fluctuates here and there, where the cysts crop up to the surface, and hard cartilaginous nodules may sometimes be felt; the tumor is not transparent, and is heavier than a hydrocele, but not as heavy as an encephaloid tumor. A hsematocele appears rapidly after a blow, and testicular sensation is generally evident. It is not possible, in some cases, to distinguish a cystic sarcoma from malignant disease, and as it is itself often associated with carcinoma and different forms of sarcoma, it is very necessary to give a cautious prognosis, even after a microscopic examination has been made. A cancerous mass, however, becomes painful, and increases in size by fits and starts, while its tension is unequal, being so slight in some places as to produce a false sense of fluctuation. * When a cancer is punc- tured, blood freely flows, but the size of the tumor remains the same; whereas a cyst gives exit to a clear or viscid fluid, and collapses. A portion of the tumor may be scooped out prior to an operation, and examined by the microscope. If the cysts contain tesselated epithelium and no cancer- cells, the prognosis is favorable. Early removal of the cystic organ is the only treatment to be recom- mended. Dermoid Cysts in the Testicle and Scrotum. Dermoid cysts containing skin, hair, bone, teeth, etc., have been found in the scrotum, associated generally with the right testicle. Professor Goodsir found in Dr. Duncan’s case, skin, hair, and cartilage. Mr. Marshall removed from a young man, at University College Hospital, a testicle which was as large as an ostrich’s egg, containing oily matter like melted butter, which solidified on cooling, and foetal remains.2 Velpeau excised, from the scrotum of a young man, a congenital tumor which contained all the anatomical elements of a foetus.3 Velpeau held that the foetal remains were first situated in the abdomen along with the testicle, and afterwards accompanied it into the scrotum. Verneuil,4 who collected ten cases in 1855, found skin, cartilage, and the gray matter of the brain included in the tumor, and was of opinion that the inclusion was extra-testi- cular. In some instances the tumor is formed in connection with the testicle before its transition, and in others is first developed in the subcutaneous tissue of the scrotum, independently of the testicle with which it becomes connected subsequently. Paget considers that these highly organized and pro- ductive cysts are the result of great formative power in the foetal or earliest extra-uterine periods of life. Ivlebs and Ivocher, when well-marked parts of the body are found in dermoid cysts, adopt the theory of the inclusion of a second germ ; but when only some tissue foreign to the testicle, such as skin, mucous membrane, muscle, etc., is present, they believe that an accidental 1 Trans. Path. Soc. Loncl., vol. vii. 2 Ericlisen, op. cit., 1st ed., p. 931. 3 Gazette Med. de Paris, 15Fev. 1840; Clinique Chirurgicale, t iii. 1841. 4 Archives Gen. de Med , 5e serie, tomes v. et vi. 1855.