519 CONDITIONS WHICH MAY COMPLICATE DISEASES OF THE URETHRA. niecl by digestive disturbances : the tongue is broad, and covered with a thick, furry coat; the mouth is sticky and bitter ; there are nausea and almost always one or two vomitings of food or glairy matter, with a little diarrhoea. Some- times these symptoms are exaggerated. The tongue becomes more or less dry, the saliva is acid, and explains the frecpient occurrence of thrush in the subjects of urinary disorders ; the vomiting is repeated ; the stools become very abundant and fetid ; there is a veritable gastro-intestinal crisis. The oppres- sion, which constitutes a part of the attack, goes on in some cases to an intense dyspnoea: the patient complains of a sensation of weight upon the sternum, which prevents him from expanding his thorax; nevertheless, nothing is dis- covered upon auscultation. Finally, complications may arise in connection with the circulatory system: the pulse, always accelerated during the progress of the attack, small at the beginning, full and strong at the end, very frequently has irregularities and intermittencies. These phenomena, which begin with the attack or a little before, usually cease with it, but may persist for several days. They are not connected with cardiac alterations,for auscultation reveals no abnormal sound; they appear to me to be attributable to troubles of the capillary circulation, under the influence of the badly depurated blood which these vessels convey at the times of the attacks. It may be, also, that this blood acts upon the medullary centres, and especially upon those of the pneu- mogastric: the respiration, indeed, is likewise altered in its rhythm, but the ear detects no abnormal sound, either in the lungs or in the heart. (2) Fever with pernicious paroxysms.—In this second type, urinary fever proceeds also by paroxysms, but these attacks present this peculiarity: that one of their symptoms, or one of their stages, is much exaggerated and dom- inates the scene: the proportion between the different stages of the frank attack is broken in favor of one of them. According to the predominant phenomena, there may be observed: (a) A fever with pernicious paroxysms of indeterminate form, in which are found the three stages of the frank attack, but in which the fever, which is more intense, has begun with a more violent and longer rigor ; a stage of very high fever is succeeded by abundant sweats, and the patient, worn out, having no more strength to react, succumbs in from twenty-four to thirty-six hours ; (b) A fever with pernicious attacks of an algid type, remarkable by the intensity and the duration of the chill or chills with which it begins, and by the exaggeration of the ordinary symp- toms of the first stage—-agitation, anxiety, cyanosis, coldness of the extremi- ties; reaction does not take place, and the patient succumbs; (c) An asphyxic form, characterized by suffocation occurring in the midst of the stage of heat; and (d) other forms, still—typhous, tetanic, choleriform, etc.—-but much less clearly defined. (3) Remittent-continuous fever.—This third type of acute urinary fever is characterized by repeated paroxysms of a form varying according to the individuals, but repeating themselves almost always in the same form in the same patient; a more or less marked, continuous febrile state fills up the intervals of the exacerbations. After a violent and long chill, the hot stage which always follows it in frank attacks is not seen to come on ; reaction takes place slowly and imperfectly ; the patient appears to have difficulty in coming out of his febrile state, and, in fact, he does not come out of it; when finally he is warmed up again, he is burning and agitated, for it is unusual to see, on even a few points of the body, a partial perspiration, instead of the abundant sweats which terminate the frank attack. The length of this attack is notably longer than that of the frank attack. The thermometer oscillates between 40° and 41° C. (104° and 105.8° F.)—once Guyon saw it at 41.6° C. (106.9° F.), in a patient on whom he had performed lithotrity; it does not, however, rise higher than in the frank attacks, but it does not fall