592 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. and vein had been divided, sloughed away. The testis on the side upon which the duct was divided became somewhat larger than natural. The dog was kept for six years, during which time he was twice seen “ in coitu,” but the female did not produce. When he was killed, the vas deferens below its division was found to be extensively enlarged, full of semen, and entirely stopped, with some separation of its extremities ; but it was open from the place of division to the urethra. When the vasa deferentia are divided, the animal develops sexual characteristics, but is sterile. Imperfect Transition of the Testicle.—The testicle may he detained within the abdomen, in the inguinal canal, or just without the external ring in the groin; it is sometimes found also in the cruro-scrotal fold, the crural region, or in the perineum. Air. Curling believes that if the evolution of the testicle does not take place within twelve months after birth, it is rarely fully and perfectly com- pleted afterwards, without being accompanied by rupture. In some cases the testicles do not reach the scrotum for a day or two after birth, and Hunter thought that this might occur as late as the tenth year; some think that it may be even as late as the twenty-fifth or thirty-fifth year. The testicles are situated during the foetal state within the abdomen, just below the kidneys, and begin their journey to their ultimate destination, the scrotum, about the fifth or sixth month, reaching the inguinal canal, which they traverse during the eighth month, about the seventh, and finally reach- ing the scrotum at the ninth month or after birth. A pouch of peritoneum, incomplete behind, where it admits the vessels, nerves, etc., to the testicle, descends with the gland and forms its tunica vaginalis, the communication of which with the general cavity of the peritoneum by the funicular process, which is analogous to the canal of ISTuck in the female, becomes obliterated soon after birth, or, remaining pervious, permits the formation of a con- genital hernia or congenital hydrocele. In some animals the canal remains open in the normal condition ; it is, however, obliterated in the chimpanzee and the gorilla. Air. Curling uses the word “ transition” instead of “ descent” of the testicle, as describing more accurately the process. The gubernaculum, which regulates the descent of the testicle, passes up behind the peritoneum in front of the psoas muscle, and is attached to the lower end of the testicle and of the epididymis and vas deferens. It then descends through the in- guinal canal, and, dividing into three parts, is attached as follows: the external portion is attached to Poupart’s ligament in the inguinal canal; the middle escapes at the external abdominal ring and is attached at the bottom of the scrotum, forming the mesorchium; the internal takes a direction inwards, and is attached to the os pubis and sheath of the rectus abdominis muscle.1 Causes of Detention of the Testicle.—Testicles fail to reach the scrotum in consequence of faulty contraction of the gubernaculum, which is paralyzed, or, as in a testicle in King’s College Afuseum, removed by Air. Wood to facilitate an operation for the radical cure of hernia, from peritoneal adhesions:— The gubernaculum had failed to become attached to the lower part of the testicle, which was quite free and moved freely in the inguinal canal. The veins of the cord, 1 Dr. Bramann says that the first descent of the testicle is caused, and that the second and per- manent descent is assisted, by pressure from the rapid development of the viscera behind it. He does not believe that the gubernaculum draws the testicle into the scrotum—first, because it is not inserted into that sac ; and secondly, because its true contraction begins after the second descent has distinctly commenced and advanced. It is more probably the contraction of a layer of cellular tissue lying on the inner aspect of the gubernaculum, and distinctly connected with the tissues of the scrotum, that is the essential cause of the descent of the testicle. A fold of peritoneum forces itself downwards into the scrotum, and, preceding the testicle in its descent, pushes the well-known coverings of the adult testis before it. (Archiv fur Anatomie und Pliys- iologie, 1884; British Medical Journal, vol. ii. p. 1288. 1884.)