389 MALFORMATIONS AND MALPOSITIONS OF THE BLADDER. 1 Edinburgh Medical Journal, 1878. 2 Med.-Chir. Transactions, vol. xxxiii. The patients all slept as well in the bath as they had previously done in bed. After the operation, a properly constructed urinal will be required, at all events during the daytime. Something similar to that represented in the accompanying illustration (Fig. 1284) will be found convenient. At night, however, a simple appliance such as a sponge, secured to the perineum, may be substituted, and thus the skin may be relieved from the constant pressure of the apparatus. Though a plastic operation may not be successful in furnishing a reservoir for the urine, capable of being acted upon at will, yet the providing of a pro- tection for the exposed mucous membrane, as well as a means whereby the urine may be more readily collected, are results which can be promised, and which warrant the performance of an operation based upon the principles to which reference has been made. [Though, upon the whole, satisfactory in their results, these plastic opera- tions for extroverted bladder are not free from risk, 100 cases to which the editor has references having given at least 20 deaths.] Patent Urachus.-—In the early foetus, the sac of the allantois consists of an extra-abdominal and an intra-abdominal portion, which communicate with each other through the umbilicus. Soon the extra-abdominal part disap- pears, the lower half of the intra-abdominal segment becomes the urinary bladder, and, ordinarily about the thirtieth week of intra-uterine life, the upper half becomes obliterated and forms a fibrous cord, the urachus, passing from the apex of the bladder to the umbilicus. Occasionally, however, it remains open, and in such a case the patient is liable to the discharge of urine from the navel, and to the formation of a urinary fistula which may suppurate and lodge urinary concretions. Patency of the urachus is most frequently observed in connection with some obstacle to micturition. Jreatment.—To remedy this defect, various means similar to those employed in the treatment of other fistulpe have been recommended, including the application of the cautery and plastic operations. Care must in the first place be taken to remove any hindrance to micturition which may exist, such for instance as that occasioned by a contracted meatus, a phimosis, or a urethral calculus. A case is recorded by Dr. Cadell,1 in which, in a female child, a cure was attempted by temporarily establishing a state of vesical incontinence by dilating the urethra. Mr. Paget, of Leicester,2 records a case in which he extracted through the urachus a vesical calculus which had formed on a hair; he subsequently succeeded in closing the opening by paring the edges and approximating them with sutures. Hernia of the Bladder.—Amongst the rarer varieties of hernial protru- sion is that in which the bladder forms the whole or a part of the tumor: in some instances it is accompanied by intestine, behind which it usually lies. In the male, cystocele most frequently occurs in the inguinal canal; it may be either complete or incomplete, or may even extend like an intestinal hernia into the scrotum. In the female the displacement is most commonly vaginal. As the bladder is only partially covered by peritoneum, it can be readily understood that when it becomes thus displaced, the protrusion is, for the most part, destitute of a sac. Fortunately, however, cystocele differs from other herniai in seldom rendering necessary any surgical operation, and then only for the purpose of meeting some complication to which the normally located viscus is also exposed. I am not aware of an instance of strangula-