VITAL AND ORGANIC LESIONS OF THE URETHRA. 475 of the muscular fibres which enter into the constitution of the walls of this canal. The presence of these muscular fibres is at present well demonstrated, even in the spongy portion, but it is especially in the membranous and pros- tatic portions that the muscular apparatus of the urethra attains its greatest development, constituting at this point what is called the sphincter of the bladder. Two varieties of spasm of the urethra may be admitted: one idiopathic, reflex in nature, and referable, as to cause, to disease of a neighboring organ ; the other symptomatic of an irritation of the mucous membrane of the urethra. (1) Idiopathic Spasm and Contracture of the Urethra.—The absence of pre- cise anatomical notions relative to the arrangement of the sphincter of the bladder, causes the persistence of some doubts as to the exact seat of this disorder. Whilst certain authors consider the sphincter of the bladder, properly so called—that is to say the muscular ring which surrounds the urethro-vesical orifice—as independent of the muscular portion of the urethra, and as consequently susceptible of being separately affected with spasm and contracture, others, on the contrary, among whom I will cite Amussat, Dolbeau, Caudmont, and Guyon, admit as sphincter of the bladder not only the urethro-vesical orifice, but also the whole group of muscular fasciculi which enter into the structure of the prostatic and membranous portions of' the urethra. Following these last authors, whose manner of looking at the subject I accept almost completely, contracture of the neck of the bladder cannot be distinguished from contracture of the urethra. The reader should, therefore, be prepared to understand that when I speak of contracture and of spasm of the neck of the bladder, I refer to an exaggerated and permanent contraction, not only of the sphincter of the urethro-vesical orifice, but also of the muscles which enter into the composition of the pros- tatic and membranous portions of the urethra. Etiology.—Authors have too much neglected, in my opinion, to establish a distinction between idiopathic spasm and symptomatic spasm of the neck of the bladder; whence results a deplorable confusion in describing the etiolo- gical conditions in which it is seen to arise. Most of the diseases of the urinary passages determine, by reflex action, spasm or contracture of the neck of the bladder; in these conditions, the spasm or contracture represents only a symptom, important, it is true, of these- diseases, and susceptible, in certain cases, of giving rise to special indications. But, in the absence of all material alteration of the organs which enter into the composition of the urinary apparatus, there may be observed an idiopathic- contracture of the neck of the bladder, constituting a special disease, and it is principally this form of contracture which it is important to study. While being idiopathic, in the sense that it does not depend on any affection of the urinary organs, contracture of the neck of the bladder is often seen as a consequence of the lesions of neighboring organs, or even of more remote ones ; such is the contracture of the neck of the bladder which is observed in the course of diseases of the anus and rectum, of the uterus and vagina, or in consequence of some injuries and surgical operations. In such a case, the contracture is the expression of a phenomenon of reflex order, but generally does not persist longer than the cause which has given rise to it. As will be seen, even here we have not to do with true idiopathic contracture of the neck of the bladder. The same is true of contractures which are- observed in the course of affections of the nervous centres—in meningitis, in the early stage of locomotor ataxia, or in hysteria or other grave neuroses. True idiopathic contracture of the neck of the bladder may be met with in both sexes, and it is more frequent than one would think in women. Although constituting chiefly a disease of the middle period of life, it may