1031 CLUB-FOOT. tor about four years, and believe that by means of its extending power I have been able to more quickly reduce the distortion of the foot; the two following cases will illustrate the therapeutic value of the instrument:— Case I This occurred in a man, aged twenty-four, who had suffered in childhood from infantile paralysis which had resulted in the development of talipes equinus of the right foot. Fig. 1481, a drawing from a cast of the foot, shows the nature of the de- formity when he was admitted into the National Orthopaedic Hospital. The foot was very rigid, and firmly set in its abnormal condition ; the sole was much shortened and contracted; and the instep was greatly raised. The plantar fascia was freely divided, and on the fourth day after the operation the extension instrument was applied; after eight weeks’ treatment the distortion of the foot was completely reduced, the result being shown in Fig. 1482. Case II. was one of relapsed congenital varus, in a girl aged 19 ; both feet were distorted, the right one to a remarkable degree. Figs. 1483 and 1484 show respectively the anterior surface and sole of this foot: the inversion of the foot was greater than is represented in these drawings, but unfortunately a cast which was taken of the foot before treatment was commenced, was not a faithful copy of the distortion, so that a second one had to be obtained after the foot had been operated on by division of the tibialis posticus and tibialis anticus tendons, and after about two weeks’ use of the out- side splint; the part of the foot which was placed on the ground is indicated by the partially absorbed pad in Fig. 1483, and from the position of this a fair idea is given of the amount of inversion which originally existed. Fig. 1484 is a three-quarter view Fig 1488. Fig. 1484. Severe relapsed congenital varus, anterior and posterior views. of the sole: the compression of the foot was very marked; at the bottom of the sulcus, opposite the transverse tarsal joint, the surface of the skin was folded upon itself to the depth of a quarter of an inch ; the forepart of the foot was greatly narrowed ; and the metatarsal bones were much displaced. This was perhaps as severe a condition of relapsed varus as has ever been submitted to treatment; the usual course was followed of first overcoming the inversion of the foot, next reducing the contraction of the sole, and finally restoring movement at the ankle-joint. The whole time’occupied by treatment was about fifteen months, the deformity of both feet being reduced in this period ; some six weeks or so were lost9 owing to the patient’s suffering from an acute illness which