HISTORY OP SURGERY. 1201 lowers of those who have dropped out; they are toiling on; they have the advantage of all past experience; they live in an age of unprecedented pro- gress in all that relates to science, art, and the humanities in general. The time has not yet, but soon will, come, when their achievements will form an important chapter in the history of surgery. Every now and then the world is amazed by the appearance of a genius, who, in a few short years, does the work which all previous centuries had failed to do, teaches his lessons well, becomes immortal, and flits away. It is impossible to speak too highly of such an one who has just departed. Gynaecology scarcely had an existence previous to the commencement of J. Marion Sims’s brilliant and successful operations for vesico-vaginal fistulse. There is nothing in the whole domain of surgery at all comparable with this man’s contributions to gynaecology. He taught how to effect the absolute and permanent cure of the most distressing and loathsome condition of woman which it is possible to imagine, resulting from the injuries and lacerations incident to difficult childbirth, a condition which the most skilful surgeons had, up to that time, utterly failed even to ameliorate; frankly and freely, and without remuneration, to go forth to all the principal civilized nations of the earth, personally and unreservedly to teach the surgeons of the world all his methods, and to establish model hospitals for the benefit of multitudes of afflicted women, furnished an example of broad and generous humanity, and of unselfishness, to which the world had before been a stranger. Dr. Sims well merited all the appreciation, admiration, and glory, which were rather tardily bestowed upon him. In future, the civilized world will never cease to express its unlimited gratitude for his eminent services, and this will be repeated age after age, as long as the primeval curse shall rest upon woman, and until she shall enter upon a millennium when sickness and disease shall be no more. The wonderful results of Bigelow’s process of rapid lithotrity, mark another immense stride in operative surgery. The Listeria.i method of antiseptic treatment of wounds, with all that relates to simplicity, cleanliness, germ- destruction, and the like, has opened a new era in our art. The vast experi- ence furnished to military surgery by the great American Rebellion and other wars in this century, the systematic record of the stupendous mass of material obtained, its careful study and analysis, the principles evolved, and the liberal publication of all under government patronage, particularly our own, marks an epoch in surgical history. The great advances which have been made in the science and art of surgery during the nineteenth century, are recorded in the several articles of the six ponderous volumes of this Inter- national Encyclopaedia. The century of surgery, last past, has entirely recast and completely remodelled this whole department of the healing art. If this imperfect sketch of the history of surgery, which has been written in the most fragmentary manner in the brief intervals of an active practice, shall awaken an interest in the mind of any student, and incite a desire for a more complete knowledge of the subject, he may be referred to an ample list of valuable authorities, more or less incomplete, which will prove very help- ful to him in his researches. He will, however, experience no small surprise at the meagreness of medico-historical literature in our own language, and particularly that by American authors. The French and German languages will afford him a far richer field for the culture of this delightful study. The biographies of physicians and surgeons in this country by Thatcher, Williams, Gross, Atkinson, and a few lesser and local works, are nearly all that can he found, excepting single sketches, privately distributed or buried in the transactions of societies or in medical periodicals. The historical addresses of Dr. John B. Beck and Dr. John W. Francis, with the brief vol. vi.—76