SOLID TUMORS OF THE TESTIS. 633 is pushed on one side by the growth, hut generally there is no gland-tissue left, as it is replaced by the new formation; this varies in firmness, being in some places hard, in others soft and brain-like, or shreddy; blood may be extravasated, and nodules of cartilage observed, here and there. Retained testes seem prone to be attacked by carcinoma. The diagnosis is not at first easy, but as the disease progresses the nature of the case becomes more evident. The introduction of the antiseptic method of operating ena- bles the surgeon to remove the growth by suitable incisions, with a fair prospect of success. The testicle is, as a rule, but loosely associated with the surrounding parts. Dr. George Johnson1 has reported a case of encephaloid cancer, affecting a testicle retained within the cavity of the abdomen. C. D., aged 27, was attacked,.after a hard day’s shooting, with pain which appeared to be near the bladder on the right srde, hot there was no irritability of that viscus ; the pain was so severe that he was at times doubled up by it; the rectus abdominis was rigid. From being a muscular and athletic man, he became bent and haggard, and just above Poupart’s ligament a swelling with dulness was detected. The urine was normal. The disease was fatal in less than a year. At the autopsy, a large mass, weighing sixteen pounds, was removed, and it is now preserved in the Anatomical Museum of King’s College. The tumor was adherent to the abdominal walls, but was removed without difficulty. From the post-mortem description it appears that the mass might have been completely removed by abdominal section. The patient, a highly educated man, fretted so much over the absence of the testicle from the scrotum, that he told Dr. Johnson only of the circumstance, concealing it from his other medical attendants. Sir Spencer Wells2 removed a cancerous testicle which was retained within the abdomen. The operation, as far as the removal of the gland was concerned, was safely accomplished, but the patient unfortunately died in a week or two from pyaemia. Anti- septic precautions were taken, but thymol and not carbolic acid was used. A man aged 53 was under the late Dr. Mahomed’s care,3 suffering from a hypogastric tumor which was semi-elastic, and which rose and fell with distension and evacuation of the bladder. Fragments of a highly cellular growth were removed through a canula. When first seen, there was no enlargement of the lymphatic glands, but this took place afterwards, and negatived any operative interference. After death, which occurred five months after the onset of symptoms, it was found that the right testicle was retained, and formed a mass of medullary carcinoma, free from cartilage, but containing colloid material. The body of the testicle, which still retained its characteristic shape, was turned upwards, its long axis being across the pelvis. The surrounding parts, and the cord, which formed the pedicle of the tumor, were not diseased ; the testicle, which was completely non-adherent, could have been easily removed by operation during life. The differential diagnosis of medullary cancer in its early stage is difficult, but is of great consequence, as an early operation is very desirable. In this disease the testicle enlarges quickly and continuously, without inflammatory symptoms. In King’s College Museum is a specimen of lisematocele, which was removed under the supposition that it was a malignant tumor. I have elsewhere pointed out the differential diagnosis between hydrocele and hema- tocele and a solid tumor of the testis. It most resembles cystic sarcoma and syphilitic disease, when the whole of one testis is uniformly enlarged ; at an early stage it is not distinguishable from the latter, but its growth is more rapid and it soon outstrips it in size, since, instead of being as large as a fist, which is the extreme size attained by a syphilitic tumor,'it may reach the size of a foetal head, continuing to grow as long as the patient lives. After a time the vessels of the cord become dilated, and cancerous deposits 1 Medico-Chir. Trans., vol. xlii. 1859. * Holmes’s System of Surgery, 3d edit. vol. iii. p. 474. 8 Trans. Path. Soc. Lond., vol. xxxiv. 1883.