497 VICES OF CONFORMATION OF THE URETHRA. should remain separated, in order that the urethra should remain open on its upper surface, and that epispadia of the glans should result. For cases in which the fissure extends beyond the limits of this organ, the following is the explanation proposed by Dolbeau :—- , Let us admit, he says in substance, that the corpora cavernosa, or rather the superior external genital nodules of Coste, instead of uniting above, unite below so as to inter- cept between them a groove which is exceptionally superposed upon the corpora cavernosa instead of being subjacent to them ; if the borders of this groove unite in the median line, the canal will be formed, but upon the back of the penis. If, on the con- trary, union fails to take place, the subject will be afflicted with penile epispadia com, plicated with inversion of the urethra. According to Trelat, the malformation depends upon retardation of the evolution of the external genital nodules, which would not exactly coincide with that of the internal genital organs. The urethra, gradually withdraw- ing from the anus, would soon be between and above the two external genital nodules, which thereafter could only unite below. I shall describe only three varieties or degrees of epispadia: glandular epispadia, in which the division remains limited to the glans; spongio- glandular epispadia, in which it involves a variable extent of the spongy portion ; and, finally, complete epispadia, in which it extends to the whole spongy portion from the extremity of the glans to the pubes. (1) Glandular Epispadia.—In this very rare variety of the vice of con- formation which we are studying, the superior or dorsal surface of the glans is divided for the greater part of its length. Here there is seen a median groove, broad and deep, which represents the inferior wall of the glandular part of the urethra, and is continuous posteriorly, by a sort of infundibulum, with the spongy portion of this canal. There is in the median line a pretty deep antero-posterior furrow; on each side of this furrow a little crest, formed by the doubled mucous membrane of the spongy tissue ; outside of this crest a more or less marked furrow ; and, still further outside, the two halves of the glans. Upon the prolongation of the median furrow is the frsenum, the insertion of which is found much further in front than in the normal state. The penis is short, voluminous, and, as it were, spread out. Further, it is necessary in order to observe the condition of the glans well, to hold the parts asunder with the fingers. In the state of repose, the furrows are effaced by the approximation of their edges, and appear only in the form of three lines, at the bottom of a scooped-out portion of the glans. (2) Spongio-glandular Epispadia.—The division occupies the whole glans and a more or less extensive portion of the spongy region. The groove thus formed, contracted at the position of the meatus, but spread out toward the fossa navicularis, is continuous by a sort of infundibulum with the remaining portion of the urethra, which is found with its normal characteristics. The mucous membrane which covers this groove is insensibly blended with the skin of the lateral parts of the penis, and in it are seen the orifices of a number of urethral lucunre. The penis is short and voluminous. The corpora cavernosa are completely united, and do not show any trace of the urethra on their lower surface. (3) Complete Epispadia.—In this the penis exhibits a most pronounced malformation. It is short, recurved, and drawn upwards and backwards, so that its upper surface is found in contact with the abdominal wall, whilst the lower one looks directly forwards and even a little upwards. There is almost always some twisting of the organ. The prepuce is triangular, thick, and exuberant, although reduced to its lower half. It is necessary, in order to examine the upper surface, to depress the penis strongly. Then there is vol. vi.—32