HISTORY OF SURGERY. 1157 with forty other ancient characters who bore this name. The writings of this physician, though no longer extant, are quoted by Celsus, Scribonius Largus, Cselius Aurelianus, Galen, Oribasius, Aetius, Pliny, and twenty other classical authors, by whom many valuable fragments, of his medical writings have been preserved to the present time. A beautiful antique bust of Asclepiades is to be seen in the Vatican at Rome. Ilis practice was chiefly medical, though several surgical procedures are attributed to him. He advised that minute punctures should be made in the abdominal walls for the escape of the fluid in ascites. lie employed free blood-letting, by the lancet and cupping, and also resorted to scarification of the fauces in acute diseases of the throat. It is said that he was the first surgeon who proposed laryn- gotomy. Ilis influence was so great that his followers were regarded as a distinct sect; the Asclepiadic sect in Physic. It was probably owing to his example and skill that the ancient grudge against physicians and surgeons abated in Rome about this time. He was the contemporary of Caesar, and the personal friend of Cicero, who entertained not only an exalted opinion of him, but also a high estimation of the art of healing. “ Nothing,” he says, “ brings men nearer to the gods than the giving of health to their fellow- creatures.” Cassius, a disciple of Asclepiades, wrote several anatomical and surgical works. In one of the latter he makes the statement that wounds of the head inflicted on one side, are followed by paralysis on the other, as a consequence of the decussation of the nerves; which explanation attests the accuracy of his knowledge of anatomy, and his carefulness in observation. In the early years of the first century of Christian grace, there flourished at Rome the most distinguished and elegant writer on surgery that ancient literature can boast of. Aurelius Cornelius Celsus wrote eight books on medicine, which have, most fortunately, been preserved to the present time ; the}7 have always been admired by classical scholars for the purity and beauty of their latinity, and highly valued by our own profession as one of the most precious monuments of antique surgery now extant. Since the art of print- ing has been in operation, scores of editions, in Latin and in many other languages, have been required to satisfy the demands of medical readers. As it was with the treatises of Hippocrates, so is it necessary with the books of Celsus to furnish the reader with a brief but careful analysis of their con- tents, in order that he may appreciate the advancement made in surgery during the period of almost five centuries which had intervened between tbe advent of the former and the time in which the latter flourished. The question has been raised as to whether Celsus was himself a physician and surgeon, or a mere compiler; whether his work was the product of one who had studied and had practical knowledge of the various subjects embraced in it, or the compilation of a scholar who had pursued these investigations as a mere part of the culture required for a finished general education. To any person who will attentively read the work “ He Medicina,” it will I think furnish abundant proof that the author was not only an actual practitioner of ample experience, but also one of careful observation, and possessed of sound judgment; and though he may not have devoted his time exclusively to the cultivation and practice of the healing art, it is more than probable that his descriptions were drawn from actual observation, and that lie recom- mended in the way of treatment what his own personal experience had confirmed as useful. The precise dates of his birth and death are not known. He flourished in the Augustan age; was the contemporary of Horace, Virgil, and Ovid; and lived in the reins of Tiberius, Caligula, Claudius, and Hero. Tbe seventh and eighth books of Celsus are entirely devoted to surgery. They furnish ample evidence of great improvements in this science and art since the days of Hippocrates. Celsus furnishes us with a brief history of