876 INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS OF THE BONES. cosis characterizes the bone-lesion, establishes its individuality, and determines its nosological position. In a number of cases the lesion has begun as a sim- ple dental caries, hut has been followed by abscesses or tumors of the jaw- bone which have necessitated scraping or resection (Partsch). What charac- terizes the disease microscopically is the presence of small yellowish nodules on the unulcerated tumors. These nodules resemble miliary tubercles. If they are opened, pus escapes which contains yellowish granules, resembling agglomerations of the powder of lycopodium. These granules are sometimes soft, like tallow; sometimes resistant in consequence of calcareous infiltration. They are nothing but colonies of the actinomycetes. The gravity of this affection depends upon the propagation of the parasite by the channels of the circulation. It invades the lung and then spreads in different regions, and especially in the ribs and spinal column. The com- monest lesion is vertebral osteitis. Suppuration of the bones of the limbs has not been observed. The course of this affection is essentially chronic, although it may give rise to some acute phenomena. The treatment should consist in the extinc- tion or removal of the nests of the parasite. At the beginning, when the parasite is still in the jaw and has not infected the economy, there is a chance to arrest its progress. In one case Partsch practised resection of the maxilla. Thus far the cases have been too few to make it possible to determine the characteristics which may enable one to diagnosticate at the beginning the osteitis of actinomycosis ; but hereafter, in the presence of chronic suppuration of the maxilla, of the ribs, or of the vertebrae, the pus should always be examined microscopically and searched for the parasites. The origin of actinomycosis is as yet unknown ; it is probable that the fungus is derived from vegetables which both animals and men use for nour- ishment. Its contagiousness has been demonstrated by Pivolta. Numerous attempts have been made to cultivate the parasite and to study the conditions of its existence and propagation. “ The first attempts at inoculation by Pe- roncito, Harz, and Bollinger, were without result.1 Ponfick and Zahn were at first no more successful, but Zahn finally reproduced, by inoculation and by insertion under the skin or in the peritoneal cavity, tumors of the same type in two calves and one cow. According to these experiments, the period of incubation varies from 40 to 114 days.” Israel has succeeded with dogs. Treatment of Bone-Inflammations. The treatment of acute inflammations of the bones ought to be conducted on the same general principles that guide us in the treatment of abscesses; in spite of the special indications which their structure suggests, the bones should be treated essentially like the soft parts. When an inflammation commences, we should endeavor to abort it and prevent the formation of pus. When pus has formed, it should be let out as soon as possible by incision of the tissues which retain and imprison it. Whether the pus be under the periosteum or in the medullary canal, it is proper to go down to it, and to give it the freest exit possible. The treatment of osteitis is first of all subordinated to its nature and degree. There are forms of osteitis which may be arrested at the outset by rest, blood-letting, revulsives, and calomel internally (rheumatic osteitis, osteitis of the growing period, osteitis of traumatic origin). There are others which go on in spite of all the measures which may be employed 1 Longuet, L’actinoinycose (Union Medicate, 1884).