962 SCROFULO-TUBERCULOUS AND OTHER STRUCTURAL DISEASES OF BONES. 1. Hygienic Measures.—The patient should be placed in dry, warm, and well-ventilated quarters, and should be furnished with abundant and generous food, and all the comfort possible. This is easy to say, but less easy to do. When mastication and deglutition have become impossible or difficult, in consequence of softening of the jaws, the patients must be nourished through the oesophageal tube. 2. Therapeutic Measures.—Sulphurous and ferruginous baths have been recommended. But they cannot always be had, and the advice is illusory. All the drugs imaginable have been tried: antiscorbutic, antisyphilitic, anti- phlogistic ; turpentine, madder, cod-liver oil, iron, cinchona, etc. The phos- phate of lime, in spite of the sarcasms of Boyer, is one of the most rational medicaments to employ in all forms of osteomalacia. Phosphoric acid seems also to merit a certain degree of confidence, if we may believe a communica- tion by Prof. Busch, of Bonn.1 This surgeon has made some experiments upon the action of phosphorus in diseases of the bones. There was no result in caries or rachitis, but, on the contrary, success in two cases of osteomalacia treated with phosphorus. Let us see what was the nature of this success:— Case I A woman, 30 years old, the disease beginning during her third gestation. In six months the pelvis alone was considerably deformed. Recovery in five months by the use of Wegner’s pills, and rest in bed. But it is confessed that the patient could not be well watched. Perhaps she never took the pills. Case II.—A woman, 50 years old, pains beginning in the right arm. At the end of nine months, marked cyphosis and lordosis, curvature of the clavicles, of the thorax, and of the femurs. The patient, lying down almost constantly, could walk only by leaning upon something, and by having the thighs in adduction. The pelvis showed character- istic alterations. At the end of seven months of treatment with phosphorus, she could walk with crutches, which she afterward abandoned, and then walked without support. The deformities in these patients naturally persisted. Who can say that they will not have a relapse? Binz oelieves that the action of phosphorus ought to be attributed to a formative irritation, caused by increased oxida- tion of the tissues. This is why, he says, other agents which have the same relations to oxygen have been able to exert a happy influence; such are arse- nious and pyrogallic acid. (Mass, Gies, Binz, Schultz.) 3. Orthopaedic Measures.-—When the disease is fully developed, and the stage of deformity has been reached, it is necessary to prescribe rest in bed in order to avoid fractures and bendings, to secure a suitable position, to place broken or curved limbs in splints appropriate to each case. Bonnet’s splint is of great service to prevent fractures or to favor their reunion, to maintain the limbs in good position, and to permit the patient to attend to the necessities of nature without fearing a recrudescence of pain, or the production of frac- ture. Care must be taken to line the splint with cotton to prevent the forma- tion of eschars. In spite of all precautions, it will happen, especially toward the end, that the patients cannot longer remain in the large splint. Their wishes should be acceded to, and they should be allowed to assume any posture that they wish, however bizarre and absurd it may seem. They are better judges thau we are of their sensations. At this stage the part of the surgeon yields to that of the sister of charity. Volkmann sums up almost the whole of useful therapeutics in the advice to be given to women affected with puerperal osteomalacia, not to expose themselves to new pregnancies. This advice, and the uncertainties 1 Niederrh. Gesellsch. f. Nat. und Heilk. zu Bonn, 16 Mai, 1881.