820 OVARIAN AND UTERINE TUMORS. (as can be done in the removal of mammary cancer), sufficiently explain the imperfection of our results. 1. The palliative treatment may he summed up in a few words. Its object is the relief of pain, hemorrhage, and offensive discharge ; and the improvement of the patient’s general health. Pain is remediable only by opium or its derivatives, which may be given either hypodermically or by rectal suppository. Hemorrhage may be arrested by the vaginal tampon, by styptics, or by the thermo-cautery ; and its recurrence may be prevented by the use of mild astringent injections, of which the best is a solution of acetate of lead and alum ; the iron salts are objectionable, and the weaker astringents, like borax and tannin, are of no avail. Foul and offensive vaginal discharges are most difficult of control, but are also best treated by vaginal injections. Here disinfectant and deodorant additions may be made to the astringents above recommended ; permanganate of potassium, carbolic acid, listerine, Boboeuf’s phduol-sodique, may all be used in this way with good effect. Weak solutions of bromine are also sometimes employed, but their odor is offensive. The irritation of the ex- ternal genitals caused by these acrid discharges is best allayed by the free use of an ointment of cocaine (4 per cent.) and vaseline. The nutrition and general health of the patient require constant attention, whether the object be to prepare her for a surgical operation, or merely to retard the exhausting progress of the disease. The indications here are to maintain purity of the surrounding atmosphere, to give ample supplies of nutritious food, and to prevent constipation. 2. The radical treatment of uterine cancer contemplates the extirpation of the diseased tissue. If this could be certainly and completely done, carcinoma would cease to be an incurable disease. But no test yet devised by science, suffices to show how far apparently healthy, contiguous tissue is already in- filtrated with cancer germs, or just when the general system has been poisoned by the local disease. All that we know is that adjoining tissues, though appa- rently healthy, are infiltrated to a much further point than formerly supposed; and that after ulceration begins, surgery can only postpone the fatal issue. In selecting either of the following methods, it must never be forgotten that success is dependent almost wholly upon the thoroughness with which ablation of the diseased tissue is effected. The modes of accomplishing this are : (1) Cauterization ; (2) Scraping or curetting ; (3) Amputation of the cervix ; (4) Extirpation of the uterus, vagi- nal or abdominal. (1) Cauterization may be effected with mineral acids, such as the nitric or muriatic, with bichloride of zinc or bromine, with the thermic or galvanic cautery, or with the actual cautery. If chemical agents be used, their appli- cation should always be followed by that of the thermo-cautery; and the utmost care should be taken first to dry the surface, then to cauterize extensively, cut- ting away all loose and necrosed tissue, and finally to dry the surface again and to apply an aseptic tampon. In epithelioma and analogous conditions of the cervix, Churchill, Hoeggerath, and others, have obtained excellent results in this way; but the treatment requires frequent repetition, and its applicability is very limited. (2) Curetting is best done with Simon’s scoop or Sims’s sharp curette, which here finds its greatest utility. Cases in which the disease is rapidly spreading to the vaginal walls, or in which ablation of the cervix is impossible, are most suitable for this treatment. The curetting should be firm and thorough, until a layer of healthy tissue has been removed, and then should be followed by the use of the thermo-cautery as before ; rigid antiseptic pre-