186 URINARY CALCULUS. No old man with prostatic hypertrophy and catarrhal disease of the bladder should be allowed to go unsearched for stone, whether he has the so-called symptoms of stone or not. In such cases there is very often no symptom present which could not be accounted for equally well by the catarrh of the bladder and the prostatic hypertrophy. But in these cases, when stone is found, its removal greatly comforts the patient, although it may not abso- lutely cure him. But to return to a specific consideration of the separate symptoms, any of which may be caused by stone, and the association of which is nearly pathognomonic. 1. Frequency of Urination more marked by Day.—This symptom is quite constant—except in the case of old men with prostatic enlargement. The latter almost uniformly causes nocturnal frequency of urination, and the presence of one or more small stones in the residual urine may not modify this symptom. Such a patient will urinate more often by night than by day, except during occasional exacerbations of the cystitis—“attacks of the stone”—when the intervals by day will probably be shorter than they are by night. The stone in these patients never touches the neck of the bladder. This rule does not hold good when in cases of enlarged prostate there is no residual urine, nor in any case where the stone is large. Here the diurnal frequency of urination is more marked. A reason for this is not far to seek. When there is no bas-fond behind the prostate, the floor of the bladder is about on a level with its neck, and, when the patient is erect and moving about, the stone rolls against the neck of the bladder and irritates this sensi- tive part. During urination, also, the stone is driven against the vesical orifice, and the tenesmus after urination—a blind effort on the part of nature to get rid of the cause of annoyance—mercilessly grinds the stone against the most tender part of the bladder. This is especially the case in young children. An irritation, even a cystitis, about the neck of the bladder, is in this way produced, and is mechanically aggravated by the movements of the stone during the day, while rest at night gives the tender vesical orifice a certain respite. Considerable cystitis, even an ulcer,1 may exist at the fundus of the bladder with no frequency of urination to announce its presence; but not so if the inflammation involves the neck of the bladder. In the latter case, urination is invariably too frequent, and especially so by day while the patient is con- scious of his sensations, and more particularly if he be moving about. With an enlarged prostate, residual urine, and a bas-fond behind the prostate in which the stone reposes, exercise does not rub the stone, if it be small, against the neck of the bladder, and urination does not raise it high enough to touch the neck of the bladder at all; consequently the old man may continue, as is the wont of prostatic patients, to urinate too often by night, not being much annojmd by day except during the paroxysms of aggravation of the cystitis, when the inflammation spreads to the vesical neck. Then the patient has “ an attack of the stone.” It is obvious why in irritability of the bladder (neuralgia), ordinary cystitis complicating stricture of the urethra, acute prostatic disease, etc., urination should be more frequent by day than by night, although the patient has no stone; for in these cases the neck of the bladder is in a state of irritation, and the patient while awake is more con- scious of this irritation than during sleep. 2. Hcematuria, as a symptom of stone in the bladder, is traumatic in its origin. It arises from the direct mechanical injury done to the gorged vessels near the neck of the bladder by the stone, or, exceptionally, from the 1 See T. H. Bartlett’s case. Lancet, Feb. 5, 187(1, p. 210.