EXPLORATION OF THE BLADDER. 303 or ulcerated spots on the lining membrane of the urethra or bladder, it has none in searching for stone; and no practical surgeon should waste his time in using it for the latter purpose when he can more readily touch than see the calculus. As much and as little may he said of the electric lamp, which, however, may some day aid materially in throwing light where much is sometimes needed ; and the interior of the abdomen being rendered diapha- nous, an opaque body, such as a calculus, may yet be found to cast or receive a shadow. This was suggested to my mind at the meeting of the Interna- tional Medical Congress in Paris, seventeen years ago, but thus far no advan- tage has resulted as regards the detection of stone. Exploration of the Bladder.—It is advisable that this should be done, if convenient, when the bladder is more or less full. But this is a precaution of less moment than is often believed by those who labor under the erroneous impression that the bladder is always in a state of contraction upon its con- tents. It is true that an exploration of all parts of the organ is not as easily made when the bladder is empty ; yet, as a stone is usually met with soon after entering the bladder, its presence can generally be at once made evident. If, however, a stone be not at once detected, a more thorough examination should be deferred till the bladder is partly filled. I say partly filled ad- visedly, for examination of a full bladder is often more painful than is that of one but partially filled. The injection of tepid water, or of any other fluid into the bladder, as a preliminary to sounding, is an objection- able procedure, and for reasons which will be stated hereafter; If the sur- geon is right-handed, let him hold the sound in his right hand ; if left- handed, he should use his left hand; if ambidextrous, one or the other hand; but let him not change hands during the introduction of the instru- ment. This cannot be done without more or less losing of ground, and with- out more or less disturbance of the instrument. The left hand should merely steady the penis till the point of the instrument has entered the urethra, after which there is no use for it till the prostate is reached, and not even then in children or young adults. The practice of pushing the instrument with one hand, and drawing the penis with the other, is not to be recommended. It is no doubt very desirable that one should possess a thorough knowledge of the anatomy of the urethra and of the curves which it makes in different parts of the canal, but the best knowledge is that acquired gradually by the practice of introducing the catheter into urethrae of various dimensions and of different curves. By one possessing such experience, any arbitrary rules founded upon observation in the dissecting-room are often found to be faulty. The tour de maitre is very brilliant, but whether the instrument is introduced with handle downwards or upwards is really of small moment. What is of great moment, however, is the slow introduction of the instrument—even where no difficulty would be experienced in introducing it rapidly. The instrument should also be removed slowly—a matter very strongly and very wisely in- sisted upon by Dr. Gouley—yet not generally attended to. When the sound is within the bladder, its convex portion—the handle being elevated—may at once be felt to strike against the stone as it lies behind the prostate and near the neck of the bladder. If not, the point should be turned to right and left, then forwards and upwards; and if not in this situation the stone will not uncommonly be felt as the instrument is being drawn back towards its first position. If still not found, the sound may be turned with its point hack- wards in the median line, and then to the right and left. If felt immediately after entering the bladder, and if felt in whatever direction the sound is turned, it is reasonable to conclude that the stone is a large one. If felt sometimes on one side, sometimes on the other, and if easily