HEMATOCELE. 577 were drawn off with a very fine trocar and canula, when the swelling, although it still remained irreducible, became less tense and the impulse on coughing was obvious. The hernia disappeared into the abdomen after twenty-four hours’ rest in bed, and the application of ice to the swelling. Had the hernia remained irreducible, it was proposed to open the sac antiseptically, remove the omentum (tying its vessels), tie the neck of sac high up, and bring the sides of the inguinal canal together with catgut ligatures passed through its pillars. Hematocele. Hcematocele is present when blood is effused into the cavity of the tunica vaginalis, or into a cyst connected with the cord or testicle, and may be acute or chronic. Non-traumatic or spontaneous hcematocele rarely occurs, and is so called because there is no history of a blow and no outward sign of extrava- sated blood. Sir B. Brodie1 considered that the extravasation of blood was in these cases due to a diseased state of the bloodvessels, and that it was analo- gous to the extravasations met with in the lower extremities when their bloodvessels are unsound. Hematocele of the tunica vaginalis may be simply due to the effusion of blood into a normal tunica vaginalis, or into one already distended by hydrocele fluid. In the great majority of cases, there is a history of a blow or wound of the part. The swelling forms very rapidly, is painful, and as a rule is associated with extravasation of blood into the cellular tissue of the scrotum, which is itself much swollen and discolored. Sometimes the en- largement is continuous. In a case of hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis tapped the first time, the swelling was transparent, and the fluid drawn off was straw-colored ; on the second occasion the swell- ing was no longer transparent, and, on tapping, the fluid removed was tinged with blood, which passed through the canula, mixed with the hydrocele fluid, and gave no more trouble. The man had received a blow on the part subsequent to the first operation. Sir William Fergusson2 relieved a hajmatocele by slitting open the swelling, in the case of a gentleman who was in the habit of performing acupuncture on himself for hydrocele, and who left a needle in the sac by misadventure. Sometimes a rent is found in the tunica vaginalis, as in a case mentioned by Sir Astley Cooper. The following history of an old-standing hydrocele becoming converted into a htematocele by rupture of the thickened tunica vaginalis from what appears to be but a slight cause, is both interesting and instructive:— The patient, H. E., aged 52, an intelligent man, made the following statement. He had had a swelling on the right side of the scrotum, about the size of a fowl’s egg, and quite painless, for the last two years. Three days since he had been wheeling a heavy truck during the afternoon. He had gone to bed apparently quite well, but had awoke in the middle of the night with the sensation of something having dropped in his scro- tum ; having placed his hand on his hydrocele, he had found that it was increased two- fold ; at the same time there had been severe pain, which had continued more or less ever since. The right side of the scrotum, swollen to the size of a cocoanut, was oedema- tous and reddened in front. There was tenderness on pressure at the upper and outer part of the swelling, which was very heavy and elastic, with a distinct sense of fluctua- tion. The testis, however, was to be felt below and behind the swelling, apparently of normal size. This being evidently a case of htematocele supervening on an ordinary vaginal 1 London Med. Gaz., vol. xiii. p. 380. 2 Lond. and Earn. Month. Journ. Med. sci., July, 1843. VOL. VI. —37