604 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. died when suffering from acute secondary orchitis, and gives the following account of the changes that may be met with:— The tunica vaginalis is more or less distended with lymph or albuminous matter, which is infiltrated with reddish serum, and which forms loose adhesions between the opposed surfaces of the membrane ; these adhesions are so slight as easily to admit of being broken down with the finger; the membrane is injected with a multitude of minute red vessels, which ramify in various directions and form a compact network. At a later period, red vessels may be traced proceeding from the free surface of the tunica vaginalis to the false membranes forming the adhesions ; the volume of the testicle is very little, if at all, increased, the great bulk of the tumor being occasioned by the swollen epididymis and effusion into the serous sac. On section, the gland presents a darker appearance than natural, owing to the congested state of its bloodvessels. The epididymis, particu- larly its lower part, or tail, is enlarged to twice, and sometimes thrice, its natural size, and feels thick, firm, and indurated. This enlargement, which frequently forms the bulk of the swelling, is produced by the exudation of a brownish plastic substance in the connective tissue between the convolutions of the duct. The specimen of orchitis which furnished the illustration (Plate XXXV., Fig. 10), was taken from a case of tetanus, and there is consequently no history of the local condition. It appears evident, however, from an exami- nation of several microscopic sections taken from different parts of the organ, that the man had suffered at some former time from diffuse orchitis;— There is a narrow band running right across the testis antero-posteriorly, which is •composed of fibrous tissue, and the seminiferous tubules lying in this band have become obliterated by fibrous tissue, which has grown in in loops from the membrana propria until the whole lumen is completely filled witli fibrous growth. It is an interesting fact that this narrow band should exist in only one part of the organ, as it is difficult to understand how an inflammatory action could be confined to so small an area. I am indebted to Dr. Coupland, physician to the Middlesex Hospital, for the following account of the post-mortem appearances presented by a case of acute orchitis:— A young man, aged 26, when suffering from orchitis (due to gonorrhoea), became delirious, at the height of the attack, and, leaping from a window, was impaled on some area railings. He was brought to the Middlesex Hospital dead, with two penetrating wounds of the abdomen, on February 27, 1877. A colored drawing was made, which represents the naked-eye characters of the testicles (the left only was inflamed), at the time of the post-mortem examination, about six hours after death. The left testicle was enlarged, swollen, and engorged; there was a little lymph in the tunica vaginalis; the body of the organ was mainly affected, and not the epididymis. The right testi- cle was normal. Microscopic specimens of the left testicle showed the tubules to be distended with cell products staining deeply with logwood. The intertubular tissue was also swollen by leucocytes and fibrinous exudation. M. Terrillon1 finds that in gonorrhoeal epididymitis there is a purulent catarrh of the seminal ducts, and that, during the acute stage of epididymitis, the semen is of a greenish-yellow color, due to the presence of a variable quan- tity of pus-cells, which are associated with some granular cells. The sperma- tozoa may be absent from the commencement of the attack, or may persist throughout the course ot the disease. In chronic cases the pus-elements aie less abundant, the spermatozoa have disappeared in most cases, and in some do not reappear. In unilateral epididymitis the changes are similar, but less marked. In eight cases at the ITopital du Midi, the seminal fluid resembled us in color, and contained no spermatozoa. MM. Terrillon and Monod2 brought before the Societe cle Chirurgie an 1 Ann ales de Dermatologie et de Sypliiligraplue, Juin, 18S0. 2 Union Med., 1881.