INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE FEMALE GENITALS. 698 In all cases after the removal of the foreign hotly, if it has been in the vagina for any length of time, antiseptic injections should be used once or oftener each day until healing of the diseased or injured parts has taken place.1 Genital Atresia. Genital atresia in the female may involve any part of the utero-vagino- vulvar canal, and it may be congenital or accidental; in the congenital variety there may be only a rudimentary vagina, or this organ may be absent. The necessary accidents in most cases resulting from this condition depend upon the presence and functional activity of the uterus and ovaries. Vulvar Atresia.—About the sixth week of intra-uterine life, there appears at that part of the embryo to be occupied by the external sexual organs a swelling known as the genital eminence, and then two lateral folds called the genital folds ; at the end of the second month, the lower portion of the genital eminence presents a furrow or fissure, known as the genital fissure, and by this depression of the integument a communication is made which connects the internal genital organs, the bladder, and the rectum, with the exterior. Should the genital furrow fail to appear, or be imperfect, there is complete atresia of the vulva and of the anus. This arrest of development is usually associated with other anomalies affecting internal organs, and condi- tions result which are, as a rule, incompatible with life, so that thecpiestion of operation rarely arises. In addition to this congenital form of complete vulvar atresia, there are two forms of partial atresia, both of which are accidental. The first, that which is most frequently seen, is oftenest found in young infants, and con- sists in an adhesion of the opposite surfaces of the nymphse; Puech considers its most frequent cause to be an affection analogous to the balanitis of male children. The second form is that which results from adherence of the labia majora. The most common causes are acridity of the urine and want of cleanliness. Rarer causes are injuries inflicted in attempts at rape, burns, and different forms of vulvitis, especially that which may occur in smallpox, or in puerperal septicaemia. Adhesion of the nymphae can usually be reme- died by simply stretching them apart; in cases that will not yield to this stretching by the fingers, a grooved director may be passed from above down- wards behind the united parts, and then with scissors or bistoury the inter- vening tissue may be divided. Traction may be tried in a similar manner if the labia majora are adherent, but incision of the connecting tissue will be required in most cases. Care must be taken after the operation, in each of these varieties of partial atresia, to prevent the separated surfaces from re- uniting. Imperforate Hymen.—The simplest and most frequent form of vaginal atresia is that arising from imperforate hymen ; the hymen belongs to the 1 In addition to the bibliography given by Breisky in Billroth’s Handbuch, and that referred to in the text, the following references are offered : Hauff, Ueber Fremdkorper in der Vagina. Tubingen, 1878 ; Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, vol. xxxi; Casper-Liman, Handbuch, 1881 ; Wien. med. Presse, 1875 ; Medical Times and Gazette, 1863, 1874, 1880 ; Lancet, 1848, 1850, 1872; Schmidt’s Jahrbucher, 1870 und 1875; Le Med.-Praticien, 1882; New Orleans Medical and Surgical Journal, 1884 ; Bibliotheque du Medecin-Praticien ; Sabatier, Medecine Operatoire. Paris, 1832; Archives de Tocologie, 1881; Centralblatt fur Gynakologie, 1879; Berlin, klin. Woch., 1875 ; Boston Medical Journal, 1837 ; Nashville Journal of Medicine and Surgery, 1858; Medical News, 1884; American Journal of Obstetrics, Jan. 1882 (supplement), and May, 1883.