271 LITHOTOMY. It most be remembered tliat if the rubber is old it becomes brittle and bursts with distention. It is not well, therefore, to trust to this instrument alone. The surgeon should carry an ordinary sbirted canula as well as the tampon. The tampon is removed in not less than twenty-four hours. It has been left in several days with no disadvantage. Anatomy of the Perineum.—It is immaterial whether we consider the peri- neum to be the whole of the inferior strait of the pelvis, as English authors do, or only the musculo-membranous plane which forms the anterior triangle, bounded by the rami of the ischium and pubis and by the ano-bi-ischiatic line, as is done by French writers. This triangle is really the important part in which all the work goes on in perineal lithotomy. A clear idea of the anat- omy of this anterior region is essential to an intelligent operation, and a mental picture of the parts within is a guide of no mean importance to the point of the surgeon’s knife.1 The object of the operator is to pass, in the young child below, in the old subject to the left side of, the bulb, by pushing the latter out of his way from the deeper parts of the wound before his knife enters the urethra. The ob- jective point in the urethra is the membranous portion of the canal, a little in front of the apex of the prostate. To reach it the posterior fibres of the accelerator urinse must be cut through, but the bulb and its artery should be spared, if possible. The structures which must of necessity be divided in lateral lithotomy, are the perineal integument and superficial fascia, some external hemorrhoidal vessels and nerves, the posterior fibres of the accelera- tor urinee muscle, some superficial perineal vessels and nerves, the transverse perineal muscle and artery, the deep perineal fascia, some anterior fibres of the levator ani, a portion of the compressor urethrae, the membranous and prostatic urethra, a part of the neck of the bladder, and a part of the prostate. The structures to be avoided are the bulb and its artery (by starting the incision to the left of the raphe and not too far forward), the rectum (by keeping away from the middle line), the pudic artery (by not cutting too far outwards), all but a small part of the vesical neck (by maintaining the knife at a proper angle, and by not carrying the incision too far backwards). It is well also to bear in mind that the pudic artery, ordinarily out of the way along the outer border of the perineal triangle, sometimes follows an anomalous course. Dubreuil has encountered it in the middle line, and Richet has found it nearly in the position normally occupied by the trans- verse perineal. The artery of the bulb, also, sometimes starts from the pudic opposite the tuber ischii, and crosses the field of the incision in its passage toward the bulb. The accessory pudic may be divided at the upper ex- tremity of the prostate, if the incision there be too deep, and it, must be re- membered that the veins about the prostate, particularly in old people, are very large and sometimes bleed alarmingly. Mode of performing the Lateral Operation.—The veteran, skilful operator sometimes plunges his knife through the skin, into and along the groove of the staff, and into the neck of the bladder, at one thrust, cutting- his way obliquely out and finishing the incision in a single movement. But such a brilliant manoeuvre is not desirable for general adoption. The incisions may 1 Such a mental picture can only he obtained as the result of numerous and careful dissec- tions. No anatomical plates can represent it in any fair way. The operator should have become familiar with the parts which he is about to cut by having frequently handled them, and he should be able to picture to himself each plane of the perineal tissues, with its muscles and vessels, as the patient lies before him on the table—at his mercy. If the surgeon cannot present this picture to his mind, he is not ready to operate.