442 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE URETHRA. passes under the membranous portion between the prostate and the rectum ; or the operator lowers the handle of the catheter too soon, and then the beak of the instrument perforates the upper wall of the urethra and passes behind the symphysis pubis. In the lirst case the catheter may still reach the bladder by perforating it at the bas-fond, or at one of its sides ; in the second, on the contrary, the more the sound is lowered the more its beak tends to leave the anterior face of the bladder. Much more frequently the production of a false passage depends upon a pathological condition of the urethral walls. It is not rare to find lacunae of Morgagni so large that a delicate and stiff bougie, especially if made of whale- bone, may be caught in one of them, perforate the mucous membrane, and then after a short passage through the submucous tissue perforate it again so as to re-enter the canal. In other cases there are, in the prostatic portion of the urethra, cavities in which the instrument may be caught. Sometimes the mucous membrane presents, on each side of the verumontanum, a shallow cul-de-sac, a sort of sinus, opening in front: sometimes the orifices of the glands of Cowper are ulcerated and enlarged. In some old men, the urethral mucous membrane is so lax that it is rolled up by the catheter in front of the neck of the bulb, where it forms a fold which makes a hood, so to speak, on the beak of the instrument. But the two commonest causes of false passage are the presence of hypertrophy of the lateral lobes, or of the middle lobe, of the prostate, and above all the existence of a stricture; and this accident is found to happen all the more readily the more the stricture is narrow, tight, and deeply situated. In such a case the instrument is arrested, and if the surgeon uses force, its beak turns aside and perforates the healthy wall of the canal, which offers less resistance than the stricture itself. The consequences of such a lesion vary with different cases. If the false passage be incomplete, and the instrument slender, inflammation is moderate and recovery quickly secured. A complete false passage, on the contrary, must be considered a grave lesion. The penetration of urine into this newly formed canal always produces either a urinary abscess or an infiltration of urine, and often fatal inflammatory accidents. An exception should be made of false passages which tunnel the thickness of the prostate, and which, if not always devoid of danger, sometimes constitute a fortunate accident for the patient. Indeed the formation of such a false passage has been formulated as a method of treatment. Diagnosis.—It is easy to recognize that a false passage is being made. After having discovered the presence of an obstruction, suddenly there is felt a sensation of resistance overcome, then of tearing, of which the patient himself is often conscious. The catheter, instead of progressing continuously toward the bladder, advances only by jerks. If it be withdrawn a little, it is not felt to be gripped as it would be in a stricture. The finger, introduced into the rectum, feels that the instrument is separated from it by only a very thin layer of tissue, and that it deviates more or less to one side. Finally, the catheter may have been buried very deep without giving exit to the urine, and its withdrawal is accompanied by a slight hemorrhage. It is often more difficult to recognize an old false passage in a patient treated before by another surgeon. The catheter then goes directly into the false passage, and is arrested. The nature of the obstacle is unknown, and it may be thought that there is present a stricture in which the instrument is engaged, and which it cannot pass. But if the patient can urinate so well that the hypo- thesis of an impassable stricture is inadmissible; if, at a certain time in the catheterization, the instrument inclines spontaneously to the right or left; if, with the finger introduced into the rectum, it is ascertained that the beak