INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE FEMALE GENITALS. 744 wounded surfaces, to use the continuous catgut suture. Quite recently Scliroeder1 has spoken still more favorably of the latter; he also says that, in order to prevent disturbance of the wound by the movements of the bladder, he introduces after the operation a tampon of iodoform-cotton into the vagina. The preceding diagram (Fig. 1419) shows the denudation as done by Scliroeder, with the superficial and deep sutures in place. Posterior Colporraphy. — The operation is similar to that upon the anterior vaginal wall, though operators differ as to the form and as to the extent of the denuded surfaces; in regard to the former, the ellipse or some modification of it is usually selected. Iiegar, as in his anterior colporraphy, uses the clamp ; the risk of opening Douglass’s cul-de-sac is, according to his experience, slight, this accident having occurred to him but once, and then no serious result having followed. Schroeder’s operation is shown in the sub- joined illustration. It consists in freshening a part of the posterior vaginal wall, and a large part of the vaginal entrance ; the denudation above extends to a centimetre from the highest part of the vaginal vault; deep and superficial sutures are used, as in anterior colporraphy; the deep stitches may be of catgut, and this material may also be used as a continuous suture. Fig. 1420. Posterior colporraphy. (Schroeder’s method.) Emmet's Method.—A paper by Dr. Emmet, entitled A Study of Perineal Laceration, with a Flew Method for its Proper Repair, was read before the American Gyntecological Society in 1883, and created no little discussion. A misapprehension of the purpose and character of the operation was mani- fest at the time that the paper was read, and probably even yet exists in some degree. As this operation is upon the posterior wall of the vagina, and narrows the canal, at least at its lower part, it may be termed a posterior colporraphy. The vaginal contraction which it causes is easily explained if we regard the injury requiring it as resulting from tearing ot muscular tissue 1 Ceutralblatt fur Gynakologie, 1885.