697 FOREIGN BODIES IN THE VAGINA. tlieless, Levrat1 says that he has removed a sponge which had been in the vagina twenty-three years, and had only then begun to cause injurious results. The foreign body, remaining in the vagina, may become encrusted by a mineral deposit, forming the so-called vaginal stone. This deposit is com- posed of the triple phosphate and calcium salts. One of the most interesting specimens of such incrustation was presented, a few years ago, to the Phila- delphia Pathological Society, by Dr. Getchell.2 This calculus had been removed from the vagina of a girl nineteen years of age; it was three inches long, one inch and a quarter wide, and three-eighths of an inch in thickness, and had been formed about a hair-pin as a nucleus. In some cases granula- tions are abundantly developed around a foreign body—a Meigs’s watch- spring pessary, for example—so that it is completely concealed. Ulceration of the vaginal walls may result from the pressure of the foreign body, so that finally a passage is worn through the anterior or the posterior wall, causing a vesico-vaginal or a recto-vaginal opening, or both. In making the diagnosis of foreign body, it is well, as advised by Breisky, not to trust too much to the statements of the patient, but to carefully examine not only the vagina, but also the rectum and bladder. In the removal, if the patient be restless or the operation painful, an anaesthetic should be used. The means for removal will vary with the character, size, and form of the body, and with its accessibility. Injections through a speculum may be used to wash out small, round bodies, and worms or insects; flat bodies, such as frag- ments of a glass syringe, may be removed with the finger; large bodies with the polypus-forceps; and still larger, with the obstetric forceps. Where the vagina is small, and the foreign body smooth and round, the surgeon may adopt the plan of Meissner, who with the finger in the rectum removed a stone from the vagina of a child of two years. When granulations surround the foreign body, these must first be torn with the finger, or divided with knife or scissors. In some cases it is necessary to cut or otherwise lessen the size of the foreign body itself. Thus, in the case reported by Dupuytren, in whicn an ivory pessary worn for several years had perforated the bladder and the rectum, he found it necessary, by means of forceps constructed for the purpose, to break the instrument in the rectum and also in the vagina, one fragment being; removed through the latter and the other through the former. If the foreign body have its size greatly increased by mineral incrustations, it is advised to remove these first, since otherwise the rough, jagged surface may injure the vagina when extraction is done. Sabatier speaks of his fingers being wounded by the “asperities of saline incrustations,” which had made the tumor “as rough as a rasp.” One of the most ingenious devices for the removal of fragments of glass Avas used many years ago by Dr. Levis, of Philadelphia. A woman had a broken glass pessary in the vagina, and the efforts that had been made to remove the pieces had only resulted in reducing them to smaller pieces, com- minuting them in fact; a severe vaginitis—due chiefly to the fragments of glass, but in part probably to the attempts at extraction—Avas present Avhen the patient came under Dr. Levis’s care. He threw into the vagina by means of a syringe a mixture of plaster-of-Paris, and after two or three days removed the mass, the solidified mixture having fixed in it the various pieces of glass. Whatever means, manual or instrumental, are used for the removal of foreign bodies from the vagina, it is well to be guided by the Avords which Blundell said could be usefully inscribed on one of the blades of the obstetric forceps: Arte, non vi. 1 Nouveau Dictionnaire de Medecine et de Chirurgie Pratique, tome xxxviii. 2 Philadelphia Medical Times, 1873.