STONE IN THE URETER. 175 same day of the week for several successive weeks, being without pahi on the other days, until finally his stone passed. In another instance, a gentle- man was treated by a homoeopathic physician for what was called hernial colic (the patient wore a truss), during an entire winter. Under the use of alkaline diuretics, an acid stone which had been arrested during all this time at the vesical end of the ureter, was voided. Both ureters may be plugged simultaneously, sometimes with single, some- times with multiple calculi.1 The distressing symptoms and high mortality recorded for cases of calculous anuria are well known. Reliquet2 quotes Merk- len’s statement that out of fifty cases there were only nine cures. He proposes as a means of relief an increase of the blood pressure by a simultaneous elastic constriction of both lower extremities with elastic bands. Aided, seemingly, by this means, one of the two cases in which it was tried ended in recovery. The suggestion is due to Prof. Bouchard. The constriction may be repeated daily, and the bandages may be left in place until difficulty of breathing and general physical distress make their removal imperative. If, instead of passing out or causing complete anuria, the calculus does not absolutely occlude the ureter, then the urine trickles along side of it, and it ultimately sets up catarrhal inflammation in the ureter, and becomes a phos- phatic stone with acid nucleus. Or the calculus may form a pouch for itself, a sort of sacculation, as in a case shown by Rorman Moore to the London Pathological Society.3 The specimen was removed after death. The pouch had become surrounded by a large deposit of fat, which Moore believed to be due to irritation. Total suppression due to calculus impacted in the ureter has caused a num- ber of deaths in persons from whom one kidney has been removed. So positively has this fact been observed that it has been brought forward as a reason why nephrectomy should not be performed. I have personal knowl- edge of one death from this cause. The symptoms of impacted stone in the ureter vary. There has generally been prolonged nephritic colic, without the passage of the stone. There is always, at first, partial anuria, complete if both ureters are plugged. More or less pain is felt about the region of the kidney on the affected side. Tl^-e is often a dull pain in the groin, and more or less in the testicle of the same side. There may be considerable or very little irritability of the bladder, with some pus and blood in the urine. Localized tenderness, increased by manipulation, often marks the point in the ureter at which the stone lies. This point is usually near the upper or the lower outlet of the tube. Treatment.—When a stone is stopped in a ureter, it is to be presumed that the methods employed for the relief of renal colic have failed—such as hot baths, diluents, opiates, diuretics, electricity, external manipulation, cups to the loins. Should there be complete calculous anuria, these methods should be persisted in with renewed energy, and Reliquet’s plan of simulta- neous elastic compression ot both lower extremities should be tried. Along with this, Reliquet recommends repeated rectal injection of small quantities of iced water. A little pilocarpin might be cautiously tried subcutaneously (yL—| grain), to which might be added the copious use of Bethesda water or light beer. Modern surgery has further placed at our command more radical measures which should always be tried before it is too late, when a positive diagnosis can be made. 1 Fatal case with autopsy. H. Haeliner, Berlin, klin. Wochensclirift, 12 Sept. 1881, S. 531. 2 Anurie calculeuse, etc., Note lue a la Soc. de Med. de Paris, 11 Fev. 1882. (Extrait de L’Union Medicale, 3eme serie, 23 et 25 Mai, 1882.) 3 Lancet, March 25, 1882, p. 482.