WOUNDS AND RUPTURES OF TIIE (ESOPHAGUS. 0 cricoid cartilage and oesophagus, with recoveryand one case of wound in- volving the pharynx and oesophagus, likewise with recovery. Internal hemor- rhage is given as the cause of death in one case of penetrating wound of the oesophagus. In the case of recovery after wound of the pharynx and oeso- phagus, loss .of voice, difficulty of breathing, and constant cough, were noted as sequelse present seven years after receipt of the injury. A buckshot was still in the left side of the neck at the date of report. In the case of recovery after a penetrating wound of the cricoid cartilage, partial aphonia was noted as existing a few days before the patient was returned to duty. Cough, dyspnoea, "and impairment of voice, therefore, are liable to be produced in injuries of this kind which may immediately or subsequently compromise the integrity of the fibres of the pneumogastrie and inferior laryngeal nerves. Other recoveries have been noted in gunshot wounds, both in military1 2 and in civil practice.3 The difficulty of obtaining nourishment in a case of external wound of the oesophagus, may be so great as to exhaust the strength in a short time. Death has been recorded at thirty-six hours,4 but it is more frequent after the lapse of several days.5 A patient died suffocated and in convulsions on the seventh day, in a case which had been progressing favorably, the cause being the unauthorized deglutition of large morsels of bread and meat, and of a quantity of wine, which forced open a cicatrizing wound, so that large quantities of wine and water, and some of the solid' food, escaped into the thoracic cavity.6 In wounds from within, the prognosis will depend upon the character of the lesion in the oesophagus, and upon that of any accompanying lesions, primary or consecutive. Lacerated wounds are likely to be much more superficial than punctured or incised wounds, and thus offer a favorable prognosis upon withdrawal of the foreign body, provided that the wound has not been extensive. Punctured wounds are much less favorable. They are sometimes associated with punctured wounds of large bloodvessels, and are thus rendered especially serious. Death by hemorrhage may ensue from an internal wound by any sharp or pointed body, even a bone.7 Perforating wounds are not infrequently fatal, whether produced by stomach tube,8 bougie, •or impacted foreign body—such as a dental plate9 or bone—even although there may not have been any evidence of its impaction.10 Penetration into the mediastinum, with the escape of fluids, is indicated by collapse, and is almost necessarily fatal. The same grave prognosis may be pronounced in cases of penetration into pericardium, pleura, lung, or air- passages, death being imminent from suffocation, or as the result of inflam- matory and eventually of suppurative processes set up in the invaded tissues. Treatment.—The treatment of wounds of the oesophagus must be con- ducted on the general principles of surgery, adapted to the requirements of the individual case. In wounds of external origin it is allowable, if not actually desirable, to unite the edges of the wound by suture, if the edges can be kept properly approximated. This is quite easy in accessible longitudinal wounds, in which, according to experiments on dogs11 and the results after cesophagotomy, union may be expected from the fifth to the eighth day. 1 Ibid., Part I., Surgical Volume, p. 408. Washington, 1870. 2 Baudens, case cited by Knott (op. cit., p. 152) ; Mondiere, op. cit. ; Horteloup, op. cit., p. 24. 8 Charles, Brit. Med. Journ., March 31, 1883. 4 Etienne, Considerations Generates sur les Causes qui genent on empechent la Deglutition, p. ■8. Thfese de Paris, 1806 ; cited by Mackenzie (op. cit., vol. ii. p. 183). 6 In Dupuytren’s case, due to a stab, death occurred on the seventh day. 6 Larrey, op. cit., t. ii. p. 162. 7 Annandale, Edinburgh Med. Journ., April, 1872. 8 Gaz. Hebd., 26 Sept. 1873 ;rPliila. Med. Times, Oct. 25, 1873. 9 Smith, New York Med. Times, Sept. 1873. 10 Shaun, Brit. Med. Journ., Nov. 3, 1873. 11 Guattani, Mem. de l’Acad. de Cliir., t. iii. p. 351 ; Jobert, case cited by Boulin (op. cit., p. 18).