157 CLASSIFICATION OF URINARY CALCULI. urinary tract, be it a blood-clot, the ovum of a parasite, a tooth, piece of bone, or bunch of hair from an ovarian cyst, a bullet from without, a piece of broken bougie, or any substance introduced by accident or design. Any calculous nucleus coming down from the kidney is as much a foreign body as if it had been introduced through the urethra, and is built upon by the same laws, by acid layers first, and then, after catarrh, by phosphatic layers. Classification of Urinary Calculi. Calculi as commonly encountered are made up of several ingredients, one of which is always animal matter, a sort of stroma that pervades the mass in which the other materials, crystalline and amorphous, are deposited. The cement-substance is constant and probably uniform in character. Different opinions are held concerning its exact nature. It contains mucus, fibrin, and albumen, but the final word has not been spoken as to its exact composition.' Certain microscopic fungous spores and mycelium have also been found and described as part of the organic composition of a stone, but their presence seems purely accidental. The other ingredients which the cement substance holds together are not usually uniform in character—urates, uric acid, and oxalates occurring together in the same stone, and phosphates being perhaps added on the outside. The nucleus of a stone often differs in composition from the various super- imposed layers, but the name of the stone surgically depends upon that in- gredient which constitutes most of its bulk. The nucleus and the organic stroma are disregarded. An oxalate-of-lime nucleus in a large concretion of uric acid, surrounded by a thin layer of phosphates, in a surgical sense is a uric-acid stone. Scientifically this is not accurate, for a calculus owes its existence to its nucleus, and it would be more exact to name the stone according to that nu- cleus if its composition could be readily determined ; and in a certain practical sense also a stone might take its name from its nucleus, because only by determining the character of that nucleus can the special tendency of the patient toward calculus be decided, and possibly a more intelligent preventive treatment instituted. But a stone is often preserved whole for its beauty, and thus the character of its nucleus remains unknown. Moreover, the prac- tical surgical question of most importance when a stone is in the bladder is its hardness, as bearing upon the question of lithotomy or lithotrity. The substance composing the bulk of the stone decides this question, and therefore, properly, gives its name to the stone. Among the various classifications which have been proposed, that of Ultz- mann,1 following Heller, is perhaps the most widely adopted and possessed of the greatest merit. It aims at scientific exactness, and deals with the pathological conditions which precede the formation of stone. In this classi- fication the nucleus names the stone, and although sometimes the surgical name of the stone differs from its scientific name as decided by this method, yet, purely for purposes of study, a classification by the nucleus can hardly be improved upon. But Ultzmann2 in his latest utterances gives up his former classification on the ground that primary stones may form in the bladder, as well as in the kidney, and secondary stones in both regions. He offers no fitting substitute and I therefore prefer to modify his former classification so as to cover all 1 Ueber Harnsteinbildung, S. 156. 1875. 2 Die Harnconcretionen, S. 15. 1882.