CONDITIONS WHICH MAY COMPLICATE DISEASES OF THE URETHRA. 503 the only cause of the production of infiltration in a certain number of cases, and of urinary pouches or urinary abscesses in others ? Relying upon the opinions of his teacher, Professor Verneuil, Muron1 devoted his inaugural thesis to the study of this point of pathogenesis. From the examination of cases, and from a certain number of experiments made for the purpose of testing the correctness of the views of Simon and Menzel, who believed in the innocuousness of the retention of acid urine in the tissues,‘Muron concluded that the quality of the extravasated urine, as well as that of the tissues into which it was extravasated, ought to be considered as playing an important part in the production of one result or the other. “ Urinary pouches,” he says, “do not exist and cannot exist except when the tissues are healthy and the •urinary liquid lias a feeble osmotic power. Urinary abscesses are produced whenever a small quantity of urine passes into the cellular tissue, upon con- dition that this liquid is rich in acid or alkaline salts. Urinary infiltration results in the first place from hypertrophy of the bladder, enabling it to expel the urinary liquid forcibly. It will be of moderate intensity if the liquid be acid, but, on the contrary, it will attain considerable proportions if the liquid be alkaline by ammoniacal decomposition, or if the organism itself be altered.” Although applicable to a certain number of cases, these conclusions, form- ulated in a sufficiently categorical manner, are certainly exaggerated. I have, for my own part, seen numerous examples of urethral ruptures which, hap- pening to subjects who were vigorous and exempt from any diathesis, have been followed by extensive urinary infiltration; and the fact must not be lost sight of that, whatever may be the cause which first gives rise to it, this infiltration is often preceded in its development by a urinary tumor or by a urinary abscess. Symptomatology.—Although, wherever it is produced, infiltration of urine determines in its passage inflammation and mortification of the cellular tissue, the local symptoms by which it is manifested vary with its situation and extent. If it occupies, as is usually the case, the lower space of the perineum, and if it occurs in a patient affected with an old urethral stricture, its occurrence is usually announced by an immediate sensation of relief, by a peculiar feeling of comfort, which suddenly succeeds the pains caused by persistent dysuria. Immediately, and at the same time that the hand applied to the hypogastrium perceives a diminution of the protrusion which the distended bladder formed above the pubes, there is distinguished in the perineum the appearance of a tumefaction which shows day by day a remarkable tendency to increase. Resulting from the extravasation of urine, which, hemmed in above by the upper layer of the triangular ligament, and below by the superficial layer, can only advance forward, this swelling, at first situated in the anterior perineal region, rapidly invades the scrotum and the penis. The scrotum increases considerably in volume, and sometimes becomes as large as the head of a foetus; the penis and the prepuce, gorged with urine, are in a condition of oedema like that which is seen in individuals affected with anasarca. Limited for a while to these regions, the tumefaction is not long in gaining the abdominal wall, passing above the pubes, and in extending to the region of the buttocks and the upper parts of the thighs, after having passed around the iliac crests. It may even, if the surgeon does not actively interfere, go further still and reach the lumbar and axillary regions. Although it constitutes the first local symptom of infiltration of urine, tumefaction is not long in changing its character, and in being accompanied 1 Pathogenie cle l’Infiltration de l’Urine. These de Paris, 1872.