INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS OF THE BONES. 874 phorus or not. The changes in the bone-tissue, properly so called, and in the periosteal envelope, are in proportion to the progress and degree of the in- flammation. 1 have, in recent years, studied from this point of view all the cases of necrosis of the maxilla which I have seen, and, in the absence of any possible influence of phosphorus, I have seen the different anatomical forms attributed to phosphorus-osteitis, such as periosteal osteophytes, disseminated necrosis, etc. Besides the removal of the cause which has produced and which maintains it, phosphorus osteitis requires no special treatment. The first thing to do is to remove the carious teeth, to cleanse the mouth with frequent washes, and to remove the patient from all emanations of phosphorus. When once the bone-lesion is freed from these irritating causes, it should be treated like other inflammations of bone, and the surgeon should be guided, especially in press- ing cases, by the necessity for freeing the patient as soon as possible from the sources of infection which are introduced by suppuration of the maxilla. The antiseptic indication is the first to be fulfilled, and it is important to have it in view, not only in necrosis of the maxilla, but also in the osteitis which causes this necrosis. Therefore, I do not share at all the view of those who always recommend expectancy in phosphorus-osteitis. As soon as the patient suffers from absorption of pus, the surgeon should intervene, lay bare the parts which supply the pus, and extract them, whether they are necrosed or not. Necrosis is so slow to be limited in phosphorus-osteitis, that irremediable alterations of nutrition would be produced if mobility of the sequestrum were waited for. At the outset it is proper to act as in osteitis which comes on from various causes (cold, traumatism, eruptive fever, state of dyscrasia). These forms of osteitis may be arrested by early incisions or by trephining the bone. The surgeon is guided by the general principles of treatment of osteitis which I shall presently set forth, and which depend upon laying open the periosteum or medulla with the object of preventing necrosis. When once necrosis has taken place, whether the sequestrum be movable or not, he should intervene by a systematic operation which may permit immediate drying-up of the septic suppuration, the antiseptic indication being the most important. The chances for regeneration of the bone are a matter of less concern in such cases, since the advances of prothetic dentistry permit immediate reparation of the bony deficit. I would add, in regard to regeneration of bone in cases of phosphorus-osteitis, that it does not appear to me that there is anything peculiar in this affection. Cases have been cited in which, in spite of the persistence of the sequestrum, the periosteum has remained flexible and fibrous; and authors have cited others in which a regeneration, sufficient for form and function, has been seen after sponta- neous elimination of the necrosed piece. Things go on as in all cases of suppurative periostitis or osteo-myelitis. According as the subperiosteal inflammation has been more or less destructive of the osteogenic layer, accord- ing as it has led to more or less rapid separation of the periosteum, the absence of regeneration will be noted, or the presence of a new formation on the deep face of the periosteum, uniting with it and forming the sequestral cavity of the old bone, which is destined to necrose and to be ultimately separated. For my own part I have had occasion to observe a certain number of old cases of true phosphorus-necrosis, and I have seen the greatest differences in regard to bony regeneration. In addition to phosphorus, other substances—arsenic, mercury, mother of pearl—have been accused of giving rise to specific inflammations of bone. But the action of these substances is still a matter of dispute, and what there