959 OSTEOMALACIA AND FRAGILITAS OSSIUM. real disease. They did not live in a marshy country; their food was similar to that of the other miners. The first member of this family of deformities, Hicholas Ecroth, who is said to have died rachitic, had healthy parents who had worked in the same mines. 2. Hygienic Causes.—As osteomalacia is more rarely seen among the rich than among the poor, it has been concluded that poor food and poor hygienic conditions contribute to produce it. Everything which weakens the organ- ism, everything which impairs its nutrition, favors the occurrence of the disease ; bad food, hard work, privations of all sorts, damp and ill-ventilated dwellings. 3. Pathological Causes.—Does rheumatism prepare the way for osteomalacia? It is more probable that the pains belonging to osteomalacia have been con- founded with those of rheumatism. All cachexias have been looked upon as predisposing causes: syphilis, scurvy, diabetes, cancer, etc. The disease has also been attributed to onanism, to the abuse of mercury, to metastasis, etc. 4. Proximate Cause.—This is still unknown, although many hypotheses have been put forth in regard to the essential, proximate cause of osteomalacia. Let us see what they are worth. Herissant, having softened bones in the oily fluid from carious bones of syphilitic or scorbutic patients, concluded that osteomalacia was due to the presence of a rancid and putrefied oil. Xa- vier1 expressed the idea (it is old, we see) that the bones must be softened by an acid. Renaul2 spoke of the excess of phosphoric acid, an hypothesis which has been revived in our days. Stanski says that the presence of this acid in the body has not been demonstrated, and asks whether, in addition to the disappearance of the lime-salts, there is not a change of structure and a de- generation of the bone-tissue, and, like Gaspari, he refers the softening to an inflammation ; in support of which opinion he mentions the violent pains, the general heat, the swelling and easy separation of the periosteum, and the lique- faction of the hyperremic medulla. Eckmann3 supposes an innate feebleness of the digestive organs which does not permit the nourishment of the bones. Morand, the younger, believes that the bony juices do not reach the bones and escape by the urine, and he cites as an evidence the white deposit which forms in this liquid, and the presence of stones in the bladder. Pravaz,4 rightly supposing the presence of lymphatics in the bones, says that by ex- aggerated activity they take up too much of the calcareous material. This is a rational hypothesis, but there is nothing to prove it. Drouineau recog- nizes the inflammatory nature of osteomalacia. It is an osteitis which simply has some peculiar features. Rindfleiscli regards osteomalacia as resulting from venous hypersemia or premature senility of the bones. He has shown that the bone-tissue resembles that from which the lime has been removed by hydrochloric acid, and that the liquefaction proceeds from within out- wards in the Haversian canals, making reentrant angles, lacunae of Howship, “such as are seen in the line of absorption in inflammations, in caries, etc.” He recognizes a passive hyperaemia going on to stasis. “ I could even under- stand,” he says, “that the blood retained in the marrow of the bone might produce there a greater quantity of carbonic acid, and that this acid would serve to dissolve the lime salts.” But this, says Ranvier, “ is only an ingenious notion.” We have seen that March and, Schmidt, and Weber had several times detected the presence of lactic acid or lactate of lime in osteomalacic bones. Hence the hypothesis of the morbid production of lactic acid as the etiological basis of the process. But it remained still to know why this-acid was in excess. 1 Observ. sur le ramollissement des os. Paris, 1755. 2 Ramoll. remarq. des os d’une femme. 1804. 3 Loc. cit. 4 Deviation de la colonne vertebrale.