OSTEOMALACIA AND FRAGILITAS OSSIUM. 971 Wasting of the Bones.—I cannot omit speaking of a sort of atrophy which has received the name of “ wasting of the hones.” It is caused by abnor- mal, persistent compression. A benign or malignant tumor, pressing against the bone, is the commonest agent in producing it. Its pressure, irritating the tissue of the bone, causes its insensible absorption by a process of medulliza- tion, analogous to that which is produced experimentally in animals by sur- rounding their bones with elastic bands or with a simple unoxidizable plati- num wire. Further, there have been noted under these tumors rugosities on the surface of the bones, which have undergone losses of substance, wastings by compression. Sclerosis has also been observed, which may be accompanied by medullary ossifications capable of obliterating the central canal of the long bones. The whole thickness of the diaphyseal wall of these bones may be thus progressively wasted. The continuity of the.bone may even be totally interrupted. For example, neoplasms of the dura mater have been seen to perforate the cranium, naso-pharyngeal polypi to penetrate into the cranial cavity by perforating its base by wasting, and aneurisms to perforate the sternum and the vertebra. The pulsatile expansions of aneurisms and very vascular tumors determine more quickly these local atrophies by compression. Cancer,according to Volkmann,can sometimes only exercise a local atrophying effect by invading the connective tissues of the Haversian canals and of the medullary spaces. In order to have a true cancerous degeneration, it is necessary for the cancer to reach the bone-corpuscles or to proceed from them. The fact is that in cancerous persons the bones are sometimes very fragile, and that, in many cases, cancerous material has been found at the seat of fracture. In unreduced luxations and sub-luxations, the abnormal pressure of the bones, one upon the other, gives rise to the phenomena of wasting which sometimes lead to the formation of a movable or anchy- losed false joint. In the joints, an abnormal position, with or without con- tracture, may finally bring about atrophy of the cartilages and of the por- tions of hone which are in contact, and afterward union of the latter.1 I may remark, in a general way, that, in very extensive atrophy of the bones, of whatever sort it may be, the excess of phosphates in the economy— especially if the kidneys are acting inefficiently, as is often the case in diseases of the bones—may favor and explain the formation of abnormal calcifications in the tissues and in the organs, not to speak of renal and ves- ical calculi. (Scarpa, Ribes, Virchow, Volkmann.)2 Idiopathic Fragility of the Bones.—The progress of pathological his- tology may perhaps some day erase this term from the nosology of the bones. Meanwhile, this name is given to a condition of the bones, still unknown as far as histology is concerned, which is characterized clinically by an extra- ordinary proneness to fracture. In the midst of perfect health, with bones absolutely normal in appearance, some persons break their limbs without apparent reason : in turning in bed, in making a sudden movement or a false step, or as the result of a trifling fall. It has been claimed that this predis- position appears to he congenital. It is probable that the bones in such cases have been affected by intra-uterine rachitis, or by rachitis coming on soon after birth. Is this predisposition hereditary? Volkmann says that it is, and adds that it increases in intensity from generation to generation. It has been said that the female sex is most apt to exhibit this fragility, especially 1 See B. Teissier (de Lyon), These. 2 Dr. Samuel Gee has published in St. Bartholomew’s Hospital Reports, vol. xvii., an article, entitled; On osteal or periosteal cachexia. The cachexia, he says, in place of provoking atrophy, causes tumefaction of the bones. The facts are not clear ; for there is a question of rachitis, of osteomalacia, and of syphilis.