CAUSES OF STONE FORMATION. 149 In Norway, Sweden, Denmark, Styria, and Spain, stone is not very common. In France and Holland it is abundant; in Austria, Germany, Italy, Syria, and Persia, it is reasonably frequent. In Mexico, Central and South America, and Australia, as far as known, the disease is not common. Livingstone failed to find syphilis or stone among the natives of Central Africa. In North America, in the United States, the greatest number of stone cases originate in the central districts—Tennessee, Kentucky, Ohio, Indiana, Mis- souri, Western Pennsylvania, and Virginia. In Utah it is said to be common. Authorities differ as to Georgia and North Carolina. In the Northern, Eastern, the Gulf, Southern, and Western States calculus is uncommon, as it is also in the Canadas and British possessions. These peculiarities of dis- tribution are not satisfactorily accounted for by any peculiarities of water, food, or climate. Causes of Stone Formation. First among the causes of stone formation, according to the best modern investigation, must be placed the influence of the colloids. Doubtless such substances as disturb digestion and nerve-force, and furnish an excess of uric acid, of oxalate of lime, of phosphates, as the case may be, favor the forma- tion of stone, but alone they are not sufficient. Undoubtedly also without cystic oxide, urostealith, or indigo, in the urine, calculi formed of these ingredients could not occur. But the fact remains that urates and uric acid may be in excess in the urine for years, and phosphates for a life-time, and no concretions into stone take place, while at a given moment, presumably during a proper co-operation on the part of the colloids, primary (acid) stone starts into existence; or the presence of a foreign body with inflamma- tion of the mucous membrane will speedily give rise to a secondary (alkaline phosphatic) stone in any individual, whether his diathesis be phosphatic or not. The colloid in the latter case is the alkaline muco-pus furnished by the inflamed mucous membrane. In 1857, George Rainey first showed at St. Thomas’s Hospital that certain crystalline materials assumed globular forms when precipitated in gummy solutions, and he announced his mature doctrine of “ molecular coalescence and molecular disintegration” in a short treatise published in 1858, “ on the mode of formation of shells of animals, etc.” His researches led him to conclude that a law’ existed by which organized bodies assumed a rounded form on account of physical and not on account of vital agencies. The following was Mr. Rainey’s process : a solution of gum arabic saturated with carbonate of potassium, sp. gr. 1.4068, perfectly clear, was placed in a bottle, filling it one third, and two clean slips of glass wrere introduced into the liquid, touching above, separated below. The bottle wras then filled carefully with a perfectly clear solution of gum, sp. gr. 1.0844, and set aside for a month. In this way Mr. Rainey succeeded in forming perfect spheres of carbonate of lime having all the hardness of pearls, and lie demonstrated that they wTere built up by the slow coalescence of minute molecules. The spheres showed radial and concentric markings, and a very distinct cross in polarized light. Where too spheres touched, they gradually coalesced into one perfect sphere, and wdiere each sphere came into contact with the glass, a shallow pit formed in the latter, due to a new arrangement of its molecules. Mr. Rainey concluded that the “ viscosity” of the gum destroyed the