SOLVENT TREATMENT OF STONE. 201 acetate of lead (one grain to a fluidounce of water, with a few drops of acetic acid). Some reserve, perhaps, must be made in favor of the injection of dilute acids to dissolve phosphates precipitated in the muco-pus in catarrhal condi- tions of the bladder, and as a prophylactic against the tendency to phosphatic re-accumulation. Indeed, Brodie is quoted as having used a solution of two and a half minims of strong nitric acid to the fluidounce of water, injected through a double catheter for fifteen to thirty minutes two or three times a week, and as having succeeded in thus dissolving a phosphatic calculus. In face of historic evidence, however, there can he but one deduction regard- ing the practical value of the solvent treatment of stone, namely, that it has no general applicability; and yet in spite of all evidence, and of all history, the virtues of various pills and waters are proclaimed to day by the pro- prietors of these nostrums, and by some of their dupes, as boldly as if Mrs. Stephens and her calcined shells had never existed, and the advertisements of mineral springs abound in seemingly well-attested instances of cure of stone. A large stone cannot he dissolved, if for no other reason, on account of its animal matrix. For even allowing that the penetrating influence of the sol- vent could decalcify the outer layers to a considerable depth, yet the tenacious organic skeleton would remain adherent, arrest further solvent action, and form the best possible bed of colloid for new stone formation. No pretence is now made in any scientific quarter that any stones can be dissolved by internal treatment, except those composed solely of uric acid, urates, or urostealith. Beale’s1 recent announcement of the good effect of large doses of carbonate of ammonium in causing cystine to disappear from the urine, and the recurring passage of small cystine calculi to cease, must be borne in mind, and may make it possible to add cystine calculi to the list of those which we may hope to dissolve by the internal use of medicine. One of Beale’s patients took 50 grains of ammonium carbonate three times a day, in a little water, for nearly three years. Oxalate of lime and the phosphates, not uncommon substances to form layers in alternating calculi, are an absolute bar to solvent action. Ammo- niacal urine is so likewise; and indeed so many conditions militate against the solvent method, that it is only the fascination lent to it by the possibility of success which has induced so many honest and competent observers to approach it. Yet being a possibility, it is a legitimate resource in those cases in which more radical measures are contraindicated, notably in dealing with small stones in the kidney. The best method is undoubtedly the one proposed by Roberts, possibly substituting citrate of lithium for the citrate of potassium, as suggested by Garrod. Success can only be hoped for after a very long course, and when the stone is quite small and the urine normal, or at least not ammo- niacal. The deposit of sediment (phosphates) from the urine which may take place during the course is no indication that the stone is being dissolved, for it is an amorphous phosphate due to alkalinity of the urine, and not a dissolved urate, and the stone may still be actually growing in size.2 Nor must it he forgoft.en that there is a possible element of error inherent in all methods of treatment by internal medication, or by the free use of mineral water, namely, the occurrence of a very positive and prolonged change in the specific gravity and reaction of the urine in which the stone lies bathed, a circumstance which would favor spontaneous fracture and disintegration, and might lead to spon- taneous evacuation of the debris. This method of cure certainly sometimes occurs at mineral springs. 1 Lancet, Aug. 30, 1884, p. 363. 2 Thompson, Clinical Lectures on Diseases of Urinary Organs, 6tli ed., p. 129. 1882.