CLUB-FOOT. 1039’ nearly always be found considerable contraction of the peronei muscles and extensors of the toes, with inability to invert the foot; but it must not be hastily decided that tenotomy is necessary under these circumstances, because, as has already been observed, the contraction of the muscles may be merely reflex, and may disappear when the foot has been rested and the pain has sub- sided. A few days’ rest, with the loot placed in a Scarpa's shoe, should always be flrst tried, to ascertain if the contraction of the muscles is due to tempo- rary spasm; if, after this, the shortening still continues, tenotomy must be employed. In the severe grade of distortion illustrated in Fig. 1491, the muscular shortening has become confirmed, and no doubt as to the necessity for tenotomy can exist; but even here a day or so of rest is advisable, because the muscles are in a state of excited spasm, and after tenotomy the divided ends of the tendons would separate to a considerable extent, more so perhaps than was desirable. After tenotomy, the foot is gradually restored to shape by use of the Scarpa’s shoe in the manner already described ; the patient must afterwards be provided with a walking instrument of the ordinary valgus pattern. Talipes Calcaneus.—Talipes calcaneus is the least common of the four varieties of club-foot; it occurs as a congenital and as a non-congenital deformity. The congenital form of calcaneus is chiefly remarkable for the simple nature of the affection, which is limited to abnormal flexion of the foot upon the leg, without the occurrence of any dis- tortion of the foot itself. In newly born children, the movement of flexion at the ankle-joint is obtainable to a much greater extent than at any other period of life, so that if spasmodic contraction of the flexor muscles is excited in the foetus, the foot readily becomes drawn into an extreme state of flexion. This condition is illustrated in Fig. 1492, the case being that of a b..by three weeks old, who was born with calcaneus of the right and equino-varus of the left foot; the shape of the foot is perfectly normal, but the dorsum is almost in contact with the anterior surface of the leg, and the heel is much depressed. This is an example of a severe grade of the deformity, and it has been selected to show what an amount of displacement of the foot upon the leg may occur without the foot itself being distorted; from this condition, calcaneus may vary in degree to one of merely slight interference with the movement of extension of the foot upon the leg. The pathological anatomy of this distortion presents no features worthy of special notice: the bones of the tarsus and metatarsus are in proper relationship one with another; the os calcis is obliquely situated, with its posterior surface directed downwards ; the astraga- lus is drawn backwards under the tibia; the anterior ligament of the ankle-joint is slightly contracted, and the posterior ligament is somewhat stretched and weakened. Tenotomy is not often required in the treatment of congenital calcaneus, except in severe cases such as that illustrated in Fig. 1492, where the tendons of the extensors of the toes must be divided. When the anterior muscles are not much contracted, the deformity yields readily to manipulation and instrumental treatment; the foot may be exercised by drawing it gently down as far as possible into the condition of extension, then flexing and Fig. 1492. Congenital calcaneus.