235 LITIIOLAPAXY. the bottle was attached, and the stopcock turned. The case of a Mr. Rodger, aged 70, is reported. His bladder was atonied. Heurteloup had previously operated upon him, but without entire success. Crampton relieved him by the aid of the evacuating bottle. Bigelow was fully aware of Crampton’s device, and refers to it in his paper, but Crampton did not for a moment contemplate the idea of litholapaxy. lie simply adopted an expedient to lend power to atonied muscles, and to expel the contents of a bladder the walls of which were incapable of per- forming that function for themselves. Heurteloup, too, used a large-eyed steel catheter with jointed stylet, and doubtless often washed out the bladder through it, but he did not conceive the idea of litholapaxy. Various other inventors from time to time devised evacuating tubes, to which syringes, rubber balls, or evacuating pumps were attached. Among the most prominent names are those of Leroy d’Etiolles, Cornay, Mercier, Nekton, Maisonneuve, Clover, and Coxeter. Cornay’s litheretie (Fig. 1223) was described in 1845, one year before Crampton’s bottle, which it Fig. 1223. Cornay’s lithSrfitie. resembled in many respects, differing in that it combined the possibility of injecting the bladder through a double-current catheter with the principle of pneumatic aspiration. Mercier, in 1872,1 published a description of a wash- ing bottle (Fig. 1224) made of rubber, oval in shape, with a glass receiver for Fig. 1224. Mercier’s washing hottle. Fig. 1225. fragments below. It very closely resembles in principle, and, indeed, in appearance, some of the first washers used by Thompson and Bigelow, and was worked without valves by alternate compression and relaxation of the rubber-bulb filled with water, while the fragments collected below in the glass receiver. But Mercier did not dream of litholapaxy. He states dis- tinctly2 that he had devised his washer for use “ quand la retention devient 1 Traitement preservatif et curatif des sediments, etc. Paris, 1872. * Op. cit., p. 370.