786 THE CiESAREAN SECTION AND ITS SUBSTITUTES. he was obliged to pass his hand into the abdominal cavity in search of the foetus, which was in the region of the transverse colon on the left side. There was no true cyst, but the foetus had been inclosed by an agglutination of the uterus and neighboring organs around it, and had escaped by the adhesions having given way. The woman died of exhaustion and commencing peri- tonitis in eighty-six hours. Prof. D. Hayes Agnew, of Philadelphia, operated in a somewhat similar case, at least in the fact that there was no closed envelop- ing cyst. When the patient was doing well and in a fair way to recover, eight days after the operation, an accoucheur injected into the cyst, to cleanse it, a weak solution of permanganate of potassium, which brought on at once a violent pain, set up peritonitis, and caused the patient’s death in twenty-four hours. The foetus in this case was dead, and was computed to weigh ten pounds ; the placenta was removed without hemorrhage. Prof. T. Gaillard Thomas, of Hew York, in 1875,1 operated on a lady believed to have been pregnant three and a half months, and opened the cyst with an incandescent galvano-cautery platinum knife, removing a foetus six and a half inches long. In attempting to remove the placenta he excited so severe a hemorrhage that he was forced to desist, tear away the separated half, and inject a solution of the subsulphate of iron. Symptoms of septicae- mia appeared on the fourth day, and were subdued in a week by frequent in- jections of carbolized water. On the seventh day there was some hemorrhage. On the fifteenth day the remnant of the placenta came away. On the six- teenth day an embolus and small abscess appeared in one arm, and phleg- masia dolens threatened. In six weeks the opening of the cyst closed up, and in ten the patient was fully restored. These few cases show the difficulties and risks of this form of operation. The vagina should be opened by a galvano-cautery applied through a large hard-rubber speculum, the parts to be incised being brought down by tenacula; and the placenta should not be removed unless softened by partial decompo- sition, for fear of bringing oil hemorrhage. Secondary laparo-cystotomy has been performed a large number of times during the last decade, and with very encouraging results. The general rules for the operation are to open the abdomen as for ovariotomy; to open and evacuate the cyst; to cleanse the same with carbolized sponges and stitch it to the uterine opening, sewing both together and leaving the placenta in situ, with the cord hanging out at the lower angle of the abdominal wound; and, finally, to insert an abdominal drainage-tube and dress the wound antiseptically. What to do with the placenta has been long a trouble to operators. To let it alone is the general rule; but this direction does not satisfy the progressive surgeon. Can we not get rid of this great fleshy mass which is to decompose, exfoliate, and possibly poison the patient? Yes, in a few cases, but much must depend upon the seat of the placenta, and upon the possibility of ligating its vascular connections; otherwise its removal will prove fatal by hemorrhage, as it generally did until operators learned through Dr. James Mease and Mr. Wil- liam Turnbull to let it alone. The records of a few cases will show that in some instances the whole foetal cyst may be removed in the operation, or the placenta be entirely or partially taken away:— Case I. Feb. 7, 1880. Prof. Egidio Welponer, of Trieste, reports a case1 2 in which a full-grown foetus was removed after it had been carried two years and three months. The cyst had formed adhesions with all its surroundings, which were carefully dissected free, showing a pedicle on the right side, which was ligated, cut, and dropped in. The 1 New York Med. Journ., pp. 561-569. 1875. 2 Archiv fur Gynakol., Bd. xis. 1882.