ORTHOPAEDIC SURGERY. 1068 of power to keep the column erect; not that such power is entirely lost, for by a slight effort the muscles may be made to bring the column straight, although relapse immediately occurs as soon as the extra muscular exertion is withdrawn. In true lateral curvature, in whatever position the subject is placed, the distortion of the spine remains, and no amount of muscular exertion will do away with the deformity. For want of a better de- scriptive term, this spurious state of lateral curva- ture may be alluded to as lateral bending of the spine, reserving the term curvature for deform- ity accompanied by structural changes in the column. The external appearances of lateral bending of the spine are illustrated in Fig. 1506. which shows an extreme degree of distortion of the body in a girl aged 18 ; in this case the spine and trunk became perfectly straight when the horizontal po- sition was assumed, and the girl could straighten her spine, when in the erect position, by placing her hands on her hips and forcing up her shoul- ders. If this case is compared with that illus- trating lateral curvature with a long upper curve (Fig. 1502), a difference in the contour of the body, which at once distinguishes between the state of lateral bending and that of lateral curva- ture, will be observed. In the case of curvature, the raised shoulder and the deepened flank are on the same side of the body; here the right shoul- der is raised and the left flank is depressed-—the spine lias as it were toppled over to the left. Lateral bending of the spine seldom reaches such a severe degree of defor- mity as was present in this patient; usually there is merely a slight bending of the spine to one side, which is readily relieved by attention to the general health ; if, however, the true nature of the affection be not recognized, and if local treatment alone be adopted, as in the case of this girl, the deformity will continue to increase. That a case of Potfs disease of the spine should be mistaken for one of lateral curvature, would appear hardly possible, yet such an error lias come under my notice on more than one occasion. When caries chiefly affects one side of the bodies of the vertebrae, the column gives way towards the side of greatest destruction, and a decided condition of lateral deflection becomes established. There is in these cases a feature which should prevent any error in diagnosis; the spinous processes are always unduly prominent, and the condition of angular deformity coexisting with the lateral displacement marks clearly the real nature of the case. Lateral deflection of the spine may, how- ever, be the first symptom of commencing mischief in the early stage of Pott’s disease, before destruction of bone has occurred; in such a case the affec- tion may very excusably be supposed to be merely lateral bending of the spine. Fig. 1507 illustrates an example of this condition. The subject was a girl aged 19, who was in a weak state of health and had been working as a general servant; the external appearances of the trunk presented a very similar state of deformity to that exhibited in the case of lateral bending shown in Fig. 1506. The deformity entirely disappeared when she was placed in the" recumbent position, and also when stooping, and a careful