895 NECROSIS OF BONES. isolated from the neighboring parts by peripheral medullization, may present all the anatomical characteristics which are met with in the different forms of osteitis. These sequestra often present necrosed parts, and then constitute mixed sequestra, which have in part the character of sequestra of necrosis, and in part the character of sequestra of osteitis. These sequestra behave quite differently in the midst of living tissues. The sequestra of original necrosis, when they are formed from the compact tissue of the diaphysis, may remain indefinitely inclosed in a suppurating cavity. Pus does not alter them, or at least does not dissolve them. I have removed from the middle of the tibia a number of small sequestra which had remained shut up for more than half a century. I have removed almost the whole of the diaphysis of a femur which had been necrosed for seven years, and whiph had undergone no appreciable alteration. But, if pus does not dissolve them, vascular granulations, arising from the medulla, may after a while alter and absorb them. Ivory pegs driven into the bones for the cure of pseudar- throsis, are eroded by the granulations which surround them. Small por- tions of dead bone introduced into the midst of living tissues, either in the medullary canal or in the cellular tissue, disappear at the end of a certain time. They disappear, above all, when the wound does not suppurate, or suppurates but slightly. As I have just said, pus does not dissolve them, but the granulations absorb them. Vascular tufts enter the canals of Havers, penetrate them, enlarge them, and finally absorb them by lacunar erosion, by a process which has some analogy with that of osteitis, but which differs from it inasmuch as the granulations come from tissues foreign to the bone. While these small sequestra of necrosis may at length disappear by means of absorption effected by the peripheral granulations, the sequestra of osteitis disappear by an altogether different mechanism. They disappear by medullization, that is to say, by a continuation of the process of rarefying osteitis. It is their own medullary elements that absorb the bony sub- stance all around them. One of the most interesting phenomena to be studied in the history of necrosis, is the mode of repair of necrosed bones. For a number of centuries there had been noticed, after necrosis, examples of the regeneration of bone (Scultetus, Ruysch, etc.), and the explanation which was given of these cases was always based upon the physiological ideas of the times. After the celebrated experiments of Duhamel, the regeneration of bone was sought to be explained by the periosteum. The researches of Troja were interpreted in this way. Then, following Bichat, Scarpa, and Leveille, the periosteum was dispossessed of all regenerative power, and regeneration was sought to be explained by hypertrophy of the remaining bone. I have else- where1 discussed at length all these questions, and I have shown how far from accurate are the theories based upon cases of necrosis observed in man. It is impossible thus to analyze accurately the phenomena of regeneration; so many influences may contribute to it, that arguments can be found in favor of all theories. Experimental analysis is indispensable in order to unravel the problem, and further, it is necessary to have recourse to processes of experimentation more exact and more demonstrative than the production of artificial necrosis. The periosteum is unquestionably the most important organ in the regenera- tion of bone. It is the only organ which can bring about regeneration of a considerable portion of bone, or of an entire bone. The medulla may indeed ossify—it is often transformed into bone-tissue in osteitis; but it does not follow from this that it can of itself repair an entire bone or a diaphysis. 1 Trait6 Experimental et Clinique de la Regeneration des Os, t. i. et ii.