VOL. VI.—10 (145) DRINARY CALCULUS. BY E. L. KEYES, A.M., M.D., PROFESSOR OF GENTTO-URINARY SURGERY IN THE BELLEVUE HOSPITAL MEDICAL COLLEGE OF NEW YORK ; CONSULTING SURGEON TO THE CHARITY HOSPITAL ; SURGEON TO BELLEVUE HOSPITAL, TO THE SKIN AND CANCER HOSPITAL, AND TO ST. ELIZABETH HOSPITAL. “ To make calculi of uric acid without colloids would be as hopeless a task as making ropes of sea sand.” “ The pebbles of the concrete would not hold together without the cement to hind them and act on their surface.” The enunciation of this truth, by William M. Ord,1 marks the starting point of a new era in the scientific study of calculous formation. The expe- riments leading to these conclusions, begun by Rainey and improved upon by Ord, are the first serious efforts toward a scientific appreciation of the subject of which we have any record. The beautiful micrographic illustrations of large thin sections of urinary calculi, recently published by Ultzmann,2 and the accompanying lucid descrip- tions, seem to establish beyond question that there is a law governing the mas- sive crystallization of the various urinary salts, as uniform in its action as that which regulates the structure of the smallest crystal. Urinary calculus is not an accidental agglomeration of solids, crystalline and amorphous, in a cement of mucus. It is a massive crystallization of urinary ingredients in a colloid, and its formation occurs in obedience to a fixed law. Ultzmann recognizes that there is a law and demonstrates it; but he fails to grasp the idea of the colloids, or to mention their influence. He recognizes only two causes of the crystallization—1, an appropriate chemical condition of the urine ; 2, an abnormal condition of the urinary apparatus—notably inability on the part of the bladder to empty itself entirely. The first appearance of calculous disease cannot be determined, hut in the nature of things it must have shown itself, or rather its symptoms must have appeared, soon after the earth was peopled, unless prostatic enlargement is a malady of modern times, which there is no reason to believe.3 Certain it is that an authentic record of stone exists in a medical treatise., called Sugruta, a Hindoo work, believed by some authorities to antedate the Hippocratic collection. In this work, which was published in Sanscrit, at Calcutta, in 1835, and afterwards translated into Latin by F. Hessler, a very fair description of cutting for stone “ upon the gripe” is given, the method now commonly known as the method of Celsus. It seems doubtful whether the Hindoo method of extracting stone described in the Sugruta, was prac- 1 The Influence of Colloids upon Crystalline Form and Cohesion, p. 61. London, 1879. 3 Die Harnconcretionen. 1882. 3 Probably the most masterly treatise upon the history of stone which has been -written, is Begin’s edition of the Traite historique et dogmatique de l’Operation de la Taille, by Descliamps, which appeared in Paris in 1796.