63 TREATMENT OP INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTION. the same class of cases; it has been successfully employed by Finny, Giommi, and others, and Boudet claims no less than 44 recoveries out of 61 cases thus treated. External manipulation, or massage—gently rubbing and kneading the abdomen (abdominal taxis)—has been occasionally employed with advan- tage both in cases of intussusception and in those of obstruction by gall-stones. It should be used with great moderation, and preferably while the patient is in a state of anaesthesia. It may be aided, as may the administration of enemata, by elevating the patient’s hips, by placing him in the knee-elbow position, or, in the case of an infant, by complete inversion. The operative measures employed for the relief of intestinal obstruction may be classified as (1) paracentesis, or puncture of the bowel; (2) laparotomy, or abdominal section, essentially an exploratory operation ; (3) enterotorny and colotomy, or incisions into the small and large intestines respectively; and (4) enterectomy and colectomy, or resections of the same organs. Before de- scribing these operations, however, it will be desirable to consider briefly the special treatment of particular forms of acute mechanical obstruction, as ■well as the treatment of chronic obstruction. Treatment of Obstruction by Foreign Bodies, Gall-stones, Evterolites, etc.— The patientshould be brought under the influence of opium, and large enemata of warm water or oil may be administered, in hope that by distending the bowel belouo the obstructing body, the advance of the latter may be facilitated. If the position of the foreign body can be determined, attempts may be made to push it onwards by external manipulation. These means failing, lapar- otomy must be preferred, the gut opened (laparo-enterotomy, laparo-colotomy), and the obstructing body extracted. If the bowel be healthy, it may lie sewed up and returned, but otherwise an artificial anus must be established, at least temporarily. Treatment of Acute Intussusception.—Opium should be freely administered, and persistent attempts should be made to push back the invaginated gut by the use of enemata, inflation of the bowel, and the cautious employment of abdominal taxis. Laparotomy has of late years been frequently performed in cases of this kind, but I confess it seems to me with doubtful advantage. In acute intussusception, even if disinvagination cannot be effected, there is a fair prospect of recovery by separation and discharge per anum of the intus- susceptum. The mortality of all cases taken together is nearly 73 per cent.,1 and the mortality after laparotomy2 over 75 per cent., so that, as far as figures bear upon the question, the operation would seem to have done more harm than good. I may add that Mr. Bryant, whose opinion on any point of practical surgery is entitled to the highest respect, advises that enterotorny should be preferred in any case in which it does not appear likely that lapa- rotomy would succeed, as affording relief from the most urgent symptoms, and allowing time for the separation of the invaginated part, in chronic intussusception the mortality is considerably larger (over 86 per cent., accord- ing to Ratinesque), and as here there is little or no prospect of a cure by sloughing, laparotomy may be properly resorted to in any case which does not yield to other treatment. If the operation is performed, and it be found impossible to disinvaginate the bowel, the part should be resected, and an artificial anus temporarily established. Treatment of Volvulus.—Opium should be given here, not as a curative, but as a palliative remedy. Injections cra be of service only in the early stages of volvulus, and when there is much distension are probably useless. These are the cases in which paracentesis is sometimes efficient, by evacuating gas or liquid fecal matter, and permitting the twisted howel to right itself." The 1 See Leiclitenstern’s statistics quoted on page 59, supra. See Table I., p 70, infra.