DANGERS AND ADVANTAGES OF LITIIOTRITY. 311 ness thus elicited, is liable to error: the stone may not be the same through- out :— D , aged 21, on the 17th of July, 1873,came tome from Syracuse, in the State of New York. He had been a sufferer from infancy. On his admission to the hospital I at once struck an enormous stone. It seemed to be soft however, and I decided to employ the lithotrite. At the first sitting a large quantity of very soft phosphatic matter was broken offand reduced to fragments, which came away during the following week, when the second sitting was begun ; but the jaws of Civiale’s strong-toothed instrument closed upon a cal- culus seemingly unlike that previously felt. The screw was applied, and as much force used as was consistent with the integrity of the lithotrite, but no impression whatever was made upon the calculus. I at once resorted to the knife, and by the lateral method safely removed a stone measuring nine and a half inches in its greatest circumference, and weighing five ounces and five drachms—the largest stone I have ever seen removed from a living body. An inspection of the specimen showed that no instrument hitherto devised could have crushed it, and that no operation, however prolonged—not even the two thousand strokes which Leroy is said to have given a calculus ineffectually— could have caused its disintegration. Its shape was a somewhat flattened ovoid. One end was partially covered with nearly a half-inch coating of soft phosphatic de- posit ; the other end, which rested upon and was partially encysted in the bladder, was a rough uric-acid stone ; but the greater bulk of the calculus, and the part upon which the lithotrite could make no impression whatever, was of oxalate of lime. The varied structure —so adapted to mislead—and the enormous size of this stone, led me to present it the same year at a meeting of the Canada Medical Association, in St. John, New Bruns- wick, and 1 introduce here an engraving from a full-sized photograph. The patient, I may add, made a rapid recovery. In this case an examination of the urine, and even of the debris of the stone itself, would have been misleading, as the outer coating alone was soft, while the interior was of the hardest character. Fig 1275. Large oxalate-of-lime calculus, with external phosphatic layer. State of Bladder and Kidneys.—-What condition of the blcidder contra-indi- cates the operation of lithotrity ? I know of no condition of the bladder which alone should influence a decision in favor of lithotomy, which could not with equal reason be deemed favorable to lithotrity. Nor yet the state of the kidneys: although, as in other operations, it is desirable to have these organs in a healthy condition for removal of stone from the bladder, I know of no condition which forbids the operation, though it may have much to do with the choice of the method to be adopted.