INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE (ESOPHAGUS. 42 Fig. 1184. admit a No. 10 (French) catheter.1 In Whitehead’s case2 (Fig. 1184), the most successful on record, the puncture was made with a trocar about the size of a No. 3 (English) catheter, and a No. 2 catheter was introduced through the canula previous to its withdrawal. The catheter was retained in the stomach, but the gastric fistula was not used for feeding until a fortnight afterward. Some patients are able to eat and drink a little after the operation. In several instances,3 remarkable improvement in swallowing seems to have followed even the initial operation of exposing the stomach ; possibly by re- flex relaxation of the tighter spastic constriction excited in so many cases of organic stricture. In one of MacCormac’s cases the stomach was not opened until the end of the second week, and the patient survived 100 days ; in another, not until seven weeks, and the patient survived twenty-four weeks. One patient, mentioned by Bryant, found sud- denly, two years and a half after the oper- ation, that she could not only swallow fluids, but likewise such solids as bread, fish, and mince-meat. Mr. Bryant advised her against an operation for obliteration of the fistula, inasmuch as the external tissues remained quite dry even after a large meal. Patients as a rule become reconciled to being fed through the gastric fistula. One patient, however, voluntarily gave it up, and perished by starvation.4 The method of feeding through the fistula varies with the character of the case, the resources of the surgeon, and the whims of the patient. A tube of some kind is to be introduced, and so arranged as to act as an obturator during the intervals between feeding times. Some practitioners begin to introduce food through the tube from the first. Others prefer to wait a day or two, to accustom the stomach to the pres- ence of the tube, if the patient can at all be nourished by enemata. At first milk is given, a few drachms at a time, a quart or so in the twenty-four hours if tolerated. This amount is subsequently increased, and eggs perhaps added, or Leube’s peptonized meat solution, and finally considerable latitude is permitted accord- ing to the desires of the patient. Some patients prefer to chew their food and then force it through the tube by means of a funnel, with digital com- pression, a method which, they say,5 satisfies the mouth’s hunger as well as that of the stomach. Large quantities of food are sometimes given by the fistula, as in the case of a patient of Langenbeck's,6 who consumed thrice daily 1500 grammes of The advantage of The manner in which the introduction of food is accomplished is shown in the accompanying illus- Method of feeding through a gastric fistula. Whitehead’s tracheotomized and gastrostoinized patient. (From a photograph.) milk, 8 raw eggs, and a spoonful of Leube’s solution, using masticated food is that the saliva is utilized 1 Bryant, Lancet, 1882. 2 Brit. Med. Jour., vol. i. p. 133. 1882. 3 MacCormac, loc. cit., p. 223. 4 Albert, op. cit., S. 367. 8 Langenbeck, case cited by Albert (op. cit., S. 366). 6 Ibid.