322 LITHOTRITY. agitate the fragments of the calculus and bring them within the large eye of the tube. The appreciation by Dr. Bigelow of the very gentle pressure which suffices to put in motion fragments differing but little in specific gravity from the fluid in which they were originally formed, entitles him to the gratitude of every sufferer from vesical calculus who desires to be rid of it with the least possible delay, and with the least possible pain. Lithotrity in the Female.—We are not often called upon to operate for stone in the bladder in the female. The anatomy of the female urinary appa- ratus favors the early escape of calculi through the urethra,and before they have attained a size to require the surgeon’s assistance. But in those exceptional cases in which the calculus remains within the bladder, it must be extremely rare for any other operation than crushing to be called for. If neither stricture nor enlarged prostate is an insuperable obstacle to crushing in the male, how much more favorable is the female urethra for the manipulation of crushing instruments? Its shortness and its large normal calibre, suscep- tible of considerable increase by the use of the lithotrite, render extraction of stone by incision into the bladder, either through its neck or through the vesico-vaginal septum, rarely necessary; and still more rarely is the more formidable supra-pubic operation called for, except in cases of immensely large and hard calculi. Lithotrity in Children.—For a long time it was felt that in children, at least, lithotomy would continue to hold its place, the operation on them being usually considered an easy and a safe one. But, however safe the opera- tion may usually be considered, and however easy of performance, we some- times meet with unexpected difficulty and delay in its performance, and with disappointment in its results. The most accomplished surgeons have failed to reach the bladder, the left index finger going deeply into the perineum and pushing the prostate and neck of the bladder before it, and have well nigh abandoned the operation under the impression there was no stone, when in reality the bladder bad not been opened. Two cases of this kind have come under my notice: in both long gropings occurred, and in one the prostate and neck of the bladder were pushed before the finger, leading to a suspicion of faulty diagnosis. Fortunately the operators did not trust too implicitly to the finger. This risk is mentioned merely incidentally, to show that lithotomy in children is not always completely free from difficulty. In the mean time the sphere of lithotrity has within the past few years been greatly extended, and it is possible that hereafter it may be found preferable in selected cases even in children.