588 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. A patient, with a moderate-sized varicocele, had a double wire loop passed around the veins and the tractor applied; a good deal of consolidation took place about the double wire, which was removed on the ninth day; the patient then left his bedroom, and was able to go out of doors a fortnight after the operation. The extraction of the wires in this case was troublesome, and caused some sharp pain, as the effusion of lymph was abundant. I therefore now recommend the use of strong carbolized silk in pre- ference. The veins may be surrounded by a double wire of malleable iron. A stout sewing needle, with a large eye, may be used, and it will suffice to place the return-wires, which are to pass through the same openings in the skin, simply between and not around the double wires just passed. The advantages of a subcutaneous operation, when a tractor is used, are, that the traction is continuous and, after an hour or two, painless, as no screwing up, which is very painful when the parts are inflamed, is required. jSTo hemorrhage takes place, and after a week or ten days the veins are divided or blocked. The ligatures, whether of wire or of silk, are readily removed when they have done their work, and leave hut a small wound, which soon heals; the consolidation along their track, which is advantageous, as it braces up the parts and prevents the veins from again dilating, in course of time disappears, hut little or no trace of an operation remaining. In a few instances it has happened that, owing to great consolidation in its track, the wire has broken and remained in the wound ; no bad consequences have followed, however, as the parts have healed soundly over the wire. It is better to pass the needle between the veins and the vas deferens when the patient is standing up, as then the parts are more obvious to the touch, and the number of veins diseased can be more accurately estimated. As a rule, an anaesthetic is desirable. The elastic ligature has been used by me on several occasions, and may be a}iplied in the following manner:— Having isolated the veins to be surrounded, I pass a hydrocele trocar and canula between the veins and the vas deferens, withdraw the trocar, and pass a piece of India-rubber cord of about the same size through the canula, which I then withdraw, leaving the cord in place. Re-introducing the trocar into the canula, I next pass it subcutaneously in front of the veins, pass the elastic cord through the distal end of the canula (free from the shoulder or stop-plate), and withdraw the latter, and finally pass the two ends, which emerge at the same hole in the skin, through a leaden loop, which is pushed well home by means of a pair of suitable forceps, and clamped on the elastic cord which is stretched as much as possible without breaking it. This operation is simple and very effective, as the loop cuts through the veins in a few days, leaving an ulcerated place the size of the leaden clamp. Galvanic Cautery.—M. Amussat, having first carefully isolated the mass of veins forming the varicocele, from the vas deferens, surrounded them with a loop of platinum wire, the two ends of which were brought out through the same opening in the skin and placed in connection with a Middeldorpf s appa- ratus. In a"few minutes the incandescent wire divided the vessels. Cotton- wool was applied as a dressing; the patient was well eighteen days after the operation, which was a very painful one.1 1 Gazette des Hdpitaux ; Bull. Gen. de Tli£r., Juin, 1866. Fig. 1371. Elastic ligature and leaden clamp for treatment of varicocele; i?, has cut its way out.