( 843 ) INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS OF THE BONES. BY L. OLLIER, M.D., PROFESSOR OF CLINICAL SURGERY IN THE FACULTY OF LYONS. TRANSLATED BY CHARLES W. DULLES, M.D., SURGEON FOR OUT-PATIENTS TO THE HOSPITAL OF THE UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA, AND TO THE PRESBYTERIAN HOSPITAL IN PHILADELPHIA. The bones were long considered as a separate system in regard to patho- logical alterations. It is only during the last fifty years that it has been well understood that their lesions are analogous to those of the soft parts, and that their pathological processes are developed in the same manner and lead to the same results. Experimentation on the one hand, and histological researches on the other, have finally established this analogy, which patho- logical anatomy had already demonstrated to Gerdy, to Cruveilhier, and to other authors who wrote in the first half of this century. The ancients designated under the name of caries most of the alterations of the bones ; at the end of the last century they distinguished necrosis, but in the first third of this century the greatest confusion still reigned in regard to inflammations of the bones; Boyer described only caries and necrosis, and, although speaking in a number of passages of inflammation of the periosteum and boLes, it did not occur to him to give a special description of this inflam- mation. It was not until 1835, at the time when Gerdy created the word osteitis to designate inflammation of the bones, that a clearer idea arose as to the various alterations of which bone-tissue is susceptible. From this moment numerous works appeared on all sides upon the affections of the bones ; and among the most important must be mentioned, at the outset, those of Chassaignac, of ISTelaton, of Gosselin, of Klose, of Roser, of Volk- matm, of Stanley, of Paget, of Ranvier, and of Lannelongue. It is not possible, in this article, to dwell upon historical questions, and yet it should not be ignored that, even in the last century, notwithstand- ing the silence of Boyer and of the classical authors who followed him, there are found very important documents bearing upon the history of our art which show that affections of the bones had already been considered at that epoch with much justness and profundity. Boerhaave and Van Swieten advanced propositions which appeared novel a century later. The first aphorism ot Boerhaave bears upon the analogy of diseases of the bones with diseases of the sott parts. Inflammations of the periosteum and of the medullary tissue are afterwards not only mentioned but exactly out- lined. The cause of the gravity of inflammations of the medulla is found, according to these authors, in putridity of the medullary tissue—a putridity