URINARY CALCULUS. 280 15. Friable Calculus.—The stone may crumble in the jaws of the forceps. This calls for the careful use of the scoop, and for repeated washings with warm water, preferably through a retrograde canula, and for especial care in the final search that no fragments be left behind. 16. Great Size of the Calculus.—When the stone proves too large to be ex- tracted safely, the choice lies between opening the bladder above the pubis or fragmenting the stone before extraction. If more than one diameter of the stone exceeds two inches, the prudent surgeon generally considers it too large for safe extraction unbroken through the perineum. If very hard or very large, therefore, it naturally calls for the supra-pubic operation, a manoeuvre often successfully practised after a previous perineal opening. In fact, the drainage afforded by the latter is probably no inconsiderable help toward the success of the high operation in these cases. If the stone is broken up before extraction, the bladder requires free irrigation, as in the case of friable calculus. 17. Aspiration of Air by the Rectum.—This complication has been noted once by Agnew. His patient’s sphincter ani, under partial anaesthesia, re- laxed rhythmically with the relaxations of the diaphragm and contracted with its contractions. In this way the rectum became fully distended with air sucked in from the outside. With complete anaesthesia the phenomenon ceased. (2) Possible Complications after Perineal Lithotomy.— 1. Hemorrhage.—Secondary hemorrhage may come on after lithotomy. I have only encountered it once, and then arrested it with a shirted canula. 2. Hemorrhage into the Bladder.—The bladder may fill up with blood-clot after the operation. The accident is rare. Various counsels are given by authorities: to break up the clot and pump or wash it out, to inject a strong solution of pepsin in order to dissolve the clot, or to leave it alone, calming the patient with opiates. The latter course seems to me preferable. The presence of the clot affords a pressure which is the best guarantee against continuance of the hemorrhage, opiates will quiet the patient, and. unless the mass is enormous and occludes the ureters, urine will trickle past the clot and presently dissolve it. When it softens and begins to come away, its exit may be hastened by the use of warm antiseptic irrigations with a soft catheter. If the pressure is so great that suppression seems imminent, there is no escape from the necessity of breaking up and evacuating the clot. The bladder may then be copiously irrigated with a very hot and strong solution of alum, to arrest further hemorrhage and insure a softness of whatever clot may subsequently form. An alum clot is much better than a subsulphate-of- iron clot. 3. Retention of Urine.—Inflammatory swelling, or obstruction by clot, may cause retention of urine. In such a case the physical signs attest the fact, and the failure of the customary flow of urine through the wound confirms it. A female catheter passed through the wound relieves the bladder of its accumulated load. Usually this complication does not last long. 4. Suppression of Urine.—Of far graver significance is the occurrence of suppression. A chill may precede or accompany it, and rapidly fatal results may ensue, or the urine may again begin to flow with periods of freedom and periods of scantiness, life terminating finally with very high temperature, symptoms of acute urremia, etc. The autopsy shows multiple abscess in the kidney. The suppression may be only partial, with or without chill (urinary fever). It is not caused by ordinary surgical fever. Its gravity depends on the accompanying signs. Heat, generally applied, ptoultices and mustard