644 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF TIIE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. sities of the animal, nor does it waste after castration. Injury or disease of that organ very rarely produces any effect on the penis; but lesion of the medulla oblongata, or of the spinal cord, is very apt to occasion a semi-erec- tion.1 Frequent excitement of the peripheral ends of the nervi erigentes leads to an irritable condition of the centres which govern erection, so that emissions follow slight irritation, or even lascivious thoughts emanating from the brain. Sir James Paget, in his Clinical Lectures on Sexual Hypochon- driasis, draws attention to the powerful influence of the nervous system over the sexual organs, and declares that it is as difficult to cure the want of co-ordination of the muscles in the one case as in the other, and that the con- dition is much affected by the state of the general health of the person. Erections, and a desire for sexual intercourse, after having been long in abey- ance, are developed in and are an early symptom of locomotor ataxy. As well as a centre for the reflex phenomena, the brain is the seat of the imagi- nation, which influences the functions of the male genital organs in a remark- able manner, and is excited by obscene books or pictures. There are men whose whole thoughts are devoted, not to useful mental work, or to out-of- door amusement, but to a consideration of the condition of their genital organs. Their minds are not sane, and they indulge in sexual excesses of all kinds; the mind acts upon the body, and excites an irritable condition of the genital organs; or the latter may be rendered weak by masturbation or sexual excess, and in turn wreck the mind. The statement that animals masturbate, and that stallions when exposed to ungratified sexual excitement, suffer from spermatorrhoea, is questioned by some. A congested or inflamed condition of the mucous membrane of the urethra and neck of the bladder may result from a stricture or from a long-forgotten gonorrhoea. The irritation of the prostate may be due to an abscess, a prostatic calculus, or a tumor affecting the part. Tubercular ulceration may affect the testicle, the vesiculae seminales, the prostate, and the bladder. Spermatorrhoea is not by any means a common disorder. The majority of patients who com- plain are not suffering from spermatorrhoea, but from pro stator rhoea? In some instances, nevertheless, spermatozoa are found in the discharge and in the urine. Paget found one case of true spermatorrhoea in fifty, and Kocher one in ten cases, of those who complained of the disorder. A contracted foreskin prevents the free flow of urine, and causes a good deal of pain and irritation; in children the parts become adherent, and confine the smegma preputii, and cause so much reflex irritation as to excite various nervous symptoms. The nerves of the anus and of the genital organs communicate freely, and are asso- ciated in the ano-spinal centre, or in the genito-spinal centre, of Budge, wherefore the rectum must be carefully examined for fissures, hemorrhoids, ascarides, etc. In some instances an abuse of enemata has induced an irri- table condition of the neighboring organs. An irritable condition of the bladder, due to lithic acid or the administration of irritating medicines such as cantharides, will cause seminal emissions. Fear, anger, and intense mental strain are sometimes attended by a discharge. It has been already mentioned that continence is apt to induce spermatorrhoea in those predisposed to it. The urine in some cases is cloudy and extremely acid, and contains crystals of oxalate of lime, due to faulty digestion. Intermittent albuminuria may be the first symptom to lead the practitioner to suspect his patient ot mas- turbation. In a case under treatment the general health was good, but the patient, a man aged 35, was in a state of nervous trepidation because the time fixed for his marriage 1 Todd and Bowman, Physiological Anatomy, etc., vol. i. p. 362. 2 See page 375, supra.