455 VITAL AND ORGANIC LESIONS OF THE URETHRA. tial element of the coarctation is to be looked for. There is produced, either by diapedesis or by multiplication of the connective-tissue corpuscles, a cel- lular infiltration, which,* when it takes place rapidly, may give rise to real abscesses, but which, when the process is slow, ends in organization of the exudate and its transformation into perfect connective tissue. In time this new-formation tissue, being in great part re-absorbed, dries up and shrivels, in such a way that all the tunics of the urethra, including the mucous mem- brane, are affected with atrophy, and that at the point of stricture the walls of the canal are thinner than in the healthy parts (atrophic stricture of some authors). To sum up, the following is the way in which the mode of development of an organic inflammatory stricture is to be regarded : the essential element is the connective-tissue new formation, having for its point of departure the inflamed mucous membrane, and extending thence to all the tissues which constitute the walls of the urethra. This connective-tissue new formation is accompanied, on the side of the surface of the mucous membrane, by an active proliferation of epithelium, with necrosis of the most superficial cells, which give rise to the discharge which is symptomatic of stricture. In regard to the connective-tissue new formation, it consists at first in an infil- tration of the tissues with new connective-tissue cells, originating either in a blastema (plastic lymph of the older writers), or by proliferation of the normal connective-tissue cells, which is followed by organization into true connective tissue of these new elements, and finally, by retrogression, con- traction, and even atrophy of this connective-tissue new formation. Al- though this connective-tissue new formation plays, as we have just seen, the principal part in the genesis of inflammatory strictures, yet there is an- other agent which must be taken into account: this is a vital modification of the elastic and muscular elements which enter into the composition of the urethral walls. To their physiological and intermittent contraction succeeds, by means of inflammation, a pathological and persistent contraction, which manifests itself for example, as we shall see hereafter, when a stricture which has been dilated to the point of admitting the passage of a bougie of large calibre, returns in forty-eight hours to its previous state. It remains, in order to complete this account of inflammatory stricture, .to say a few words in reference to certain other conditions which may be met with in cases of this kind. Often the infiltration is limited to one of the urethral walls, usually the lower, on a level with the bulb. The induration then presents itself in the form of irregular patches of small extent, project- ing but slightly into the canal. Although there is then a true stricture, yet micturition is but little hindered, on account of the dilatability of the por- tion of wall which remains healthy. In other cases the induration occupies the whole circle of the urethra, but the degree of constriction varies at dif- ferent points, whence the formation of a sinuous track of which the orifice is exeentrieally situated. In other cases, again, the urethra is constricted in a length of from three to five centimetres, but the constriction is more marked at certain points, and several strictures may be supposed to exist when really there is but oue. Finally, in certain individuals who have had several attacks of urethritis, the urethra may be constricted throughout its whole extent. In a case of this kind observed by Yoillemier (Fig. 1327), the width of the canal at some points did not exceed four or five millimetres; its surface was mammillated from the unequal thickness of plastic infiltration ; the shrunken spongy tissue was transformed into a very narrow, yellowish band; and it was only in the gland and bulb that any portions which were healthy and still permeable to blood could be recognized. The cavernous bodies are but