RAPID LITHOTRITY. 819 out of the bladder, without injection and without aspiration, and allowing no portion of a calculus to remain after fragmentation without being washed out through the urethra, or drawn out through a canula. If error there were in the former practice, the error was in its universal adoption. And the error into which many have recently fallen, of washing away the fragments in every instance, is an error fraught with no less mis- chief. It is but a few years since the greatest surgeons were content with “crushing the stone, and waiting for the gradual and spontaneous egress of the fragments.” Some, like Fergnsson, had tried single and double injections and currents of water, but with so little satisfaction that“ forcible disintegra- tion and chance were finally trusted to,” chance generally bringing away in due season the fragments which had been broken off, after they had lodged perhaps for a time in the prostatic or membranous portion of the urethra, or -at the meatus. It is less than twenty-five years since it was generally con- sidered unwise to touch fragments of stone in the bladder, or to attempt to bring them away. In speaking of injection as a preliminary to crushing, I gave among the reasons for its non-employment, the irritation set up in the bladder which it was not in the power of an anaesthetic completely to mask; the same objection would obtain, in a considerable proportion of cases, to the use of injection as a sequel to crushing. Professor Andrews uses “warm carbolized water during the whole operation of litholapaxy, both to distend the bladder during the crushing, and to wash out the fragments afterwards;” but, grant- ins- that “ carbolized water acts as a decided local anaesthetic, benumbing; the nervous activity of the bladder and lessening the shock of prolonged opera- tions;” granting that “it checks bleeding, and leaves the viscus in a thoroughly antiseptic condition, preventing the formation and putrefaction of pus, and acting as a very powerful local antiphlogistic”—granting all this, and it is granting much—the wisdom of its use in mechanically distending the bladder as a preliminary to, or during the operation of, crushing, may fairly be doubted. The addition of carbolic acid to water cannot diminish— and it is not pretended that it increases—the undesirable mechanical action of warm water forced into the bladder through the urethra, though in the cystitis which accompanies the presence of stone, and which may continue after its withdrawal, the injection of a warm one-per-cent, solution of carbolic acid may be, as Mr. Batterham says, “most efficacious in allaying pain.” The aim of every operator, from the time of Civiale to the present has been, however, to diminish the inconveniences arising from the passage of these fragments. The fragments produced by the earlier instruments were not as large, indeed, nor as angular, as those produced by later instruments. The earlier lithotrites did not break the stone into pieces, but scraped its surfaces and gradually reduced it to powder or to small gravel, and the quantity broken down at each sitting was not as large as that obtained now. Yet fragments of considerable size could sometimes be detached. Acci- dents which occurred from time to time from their being lodged in some part of the urethral canal, led Leroy d’Etiolles to recommend an evacuating canula, and Heurteloup to introduce an instrument which has since, in the modification of Sir Henry Thompson, nearly reached perfection as a means of retaining the fragments within the female blade and permitting their extrac- tion in this way. But this latter instrument is used on the assumption that the urethra is less susceptible of mischief from the introduction and with- drawal of a metallic instrument, than is the bladder from the presence of frag- ments. Civiale desired the detention of the latter within the bladder till their angles were rounded off', and Heurteloup advised the maintenance of