AFFECTIONS LIKELY TO BE MISTAKEN FOR OVARIAN OR UTERINE TUMORS. 825 blood. Neoplasms, either solid or cystic, are painless, unaccompanied by metrorrhagia or signs of internal hemorrhage, and, in the case of fibroids, so hard and lohulated as to be obvious. In retention of the menses there is amenorrhoeat stenosis of the cervical canal, and a prominent tumor which is unmistakably uterine. Prognosis.—In most cases of htematocele the prognosis is favorable; but this statement needs cpialification. In the subperitoneal form it is much better than in intra-peritoneal hemorrhage. When extra-uterine pregnancy, or the rupture of a varicose vein, is the source of the hemorrhage, the chance of recovery is very slight. When death occurs, it is from direct exhaustion from loss of blood, from shock, from peritonitis due to the immediate blood- effusion or to rupture into the peritoneal cavity of the subperitoneal tumor, or from subsequent septicaemia. Course and Termination.—In most cases the course of hematocele is towards a slow but steady recovery. Voisin thought that nearly four-fifths of all known cases pursued this course in about six months. Instead of undergoing gradual absorption, however, the contents of the tumor may be discharged into the rectum, the vagina, or the peritoneal cavity ; fatal results follow the latter occurrence, and when death does not ensue immediately, septicaemia often follows with results that terminate in death more slowly. Treatment.—This should be addressed to arresting the hemorrhage and to promoting the absorption of the effused blood. For the first purpose it is mainly expectant. The patient is to be put to bed immediately, and kept at perfect rest, with ice-bags on the hypogastrium, and hot bottles at the feet and legs. If there be threatening of collapse, hypodermic injections of brandy and ether should be given, with enough morphia to quiet nervous disturbance and to relieve pain. Ergotine. or ergot and gallic acid, may be given by the mouth, or hypodermically ; but little or nothing is thus gained. Brandy, whiskey, or iced champagne may be given in small quantities by the mouth. The question of laparotomy, to reach at once the source of the hemorrhage and arrest the flow, will often arise. Theoretically, this should he the cardinal point of treatment in severe hemorrhages ; but our present means of diagnosis are insufficient to warrant its recommendation, and I know of no case in which it has been done successfully. In the future it will certainly be accomplished. In the later stages, absorption is to be steadily promoted unless septictemia threatens ; then the heematoma is to be evacuated and drained through the vagina, or, as Mr. Lawson Tait advises, by abdominal section. For carrying out the former plan, either a trocar, a bistoury, or the galvano-caustic knife, may be employed; the tumor is to be opened from the vaginal surface (with the patient anaesthetized, on her back, or in the left lateral position), and carefully washed out with carbolized hot water, a well- fitting drainage-tube being kept in the opening. Every day for a week or two this irrigation should be practised afresh, and always under antiseptic precautions. If laparotomy be adopted, every effort should be made to draw up the sac-walls, so as to unite their edges to those of the’ abdominal wound. A drainage-tube is to be inserted, and through this the sac must be kept steadily free from pus as before. The progress of such cases is naturally much slower than after an ordinary ovariotomy ; but, in the hands of skilled laparo- tomists, they promise excellent results for the future. In 1882, Mr. Tait had operated with uniform success in this manner upon twenty cases1 of pelvic abscess, mostly instances of htematocele in their inception; and since then has doubtless had many others. 1 Dis. of the Ovaries, p. 351. 1882.