11 FOREIGN BODIES IN THE (ESOPHAGUS. sound, catheter, or bougie is usually requisite to detect the position of the foreign body, and to determine its density, if unknown. This manipulation, however, is not always practicable. One of the best appliances for this pur- pose is the sound of Langenbeck: a flexible, whalebone rod, tipped with a smooth, polished, metallic knob. The knob as it strikes a hard foreign body produces a click. The sounds most in use have ivory knobs. Ivnobs of vary- ing sizes should be supplied with each rod, firmly attachable by a screw. A special resonator has been devised by Duplay, and perfected by Collin, pro- vided with a sounding-box and an ear-tube (Fig. 1162); but such an Fig. 1162. instrument of precision can rarely be required, although an instance has. been recorded in which it permitted the recognition of a coin which could not be otherwise detected. Any instrument used in exploration should be marked in a graduated scale, so as to indicate the precise relations of a foreign body with the walls of the oesophagus. The sound, when possible, should be carried to the stomach. If no obstacle be encountered, it may be inferred, as a rule, that the foreign body has passed into the stomach, though the inference is not always reliable. The most careful sounding will some- times fail to detect the presence of a foreign body known to be in the oeso- phagus. Collections of mucus or of moist food around the foreign body, may cause the searcher to slip past it without detection. If the foreign body be of such a shape as to become closely applied to the wall of the oesophagus, the sound may slip by without encountering it.1 Fragments of bone may escape detection in this manner.2 In a case in which the fragment of a sword, broken off in the oesophagus,, could not be detected in the gullet of a juggler, it was found, upon post- mortem examination after gastrotomy, that the fragment had become con- cealed behind a fold of injured membrane in which it had become caught, probably during vomiting in attempts at expulsion by emesis.3 Should ex- ploration of the oesophagus be impracticable without anaesthesia, the manipu- lations must be made with the patient recumbent. This is readily done by supporting the head a little below the level of the table or couch upon which the patient lies, thus bringing mouth, pharynx, and oesophagus into the same plane. Under other circumstances, the exploration is best made with the patient in the sitting posture, the head being Avell thrown back so as to 1 Case of English half-penny applied against anterior wall. Marston, Brit. Med. Journ., March 4, 1882, p. 305. (Welch’s case.) 2 Legouest, case cited by Michel (Diet. Encyclopedique des Sciences Medicales, Art. CEsopliage,. p. 515). 3 Gussenbauer, Wien. med. Blatter, 20 und 27 Dec. 1883; London Med. Record, April, 1884, p» 151.