LITHOTOMY. 259 Thompson’s method of vesical exploration with the finger through a central perineal opening. The lateral operation plainly allows a larger external opening than the median, and the internal opening by a double incision may be made as large as possible without encroaching upon the body of the bladder; therefore this operation, the lateral, logically belongs to stones over an inch in diameter, and up to such a size as the operator may feel himself justified in attacking through the perineum. Very large stones, of four, five, or even seven ounces, have been removed unbroken through the perineum, and the patients have recovered ; but, as Mr. Crosse, of Norwich, has shown, the larger the stone the greater is the mortality. A stone two inches in diameter may be taken through a prostate which has been incised bilaterally—for each incision counts for three-quarters of an inch, and the natural dilatability of the urethra for an- other inch—but when a stone larger than this is taken out, the body of the bladder must participate in the incision, or be torn into to allow the passage. This cutting into or tearing the body of the bladder is by no means as formidable a complication as might be supposed. In making a number of experimental incisions, and extracting smooth stones of various sizes from the cadaver, I have been surprised to see how often the body of the bladder is both cut into and lacerated when the stone to be extracted is of considerable size. Cutting into the body of the bladder was rather the rule than the exception in the apparatus minor, and it was the design and object of the operator in some of the earlier manoeuvres. Again, in the child the prostate is rudimentary, the incision being made cleanly through it and into the body of the bladder beyond, yet the well-known success of lateral lithotomy with children more than justifies the procedure. Although, however, a large stone may come out safely through the perineal incision—and the more safely the younger the individual—yet, especially in old people, in view of the statistical mortality, it is not prudent to cut far, nor to use any rude force in extraction, and a large stone should be broken and extracted in fragments rather than as an uninjured trophy. The great opportunity for drainage offered by lateral c3Tstotomy in cases of severe chronic cystitis, is a strong argument in favor of this method. When a stone is very large—over two inches in diameter—supra-pubic lithotomy is to be preferred. The well-known mortality attending the extraction of very large stones need not again be discussed, but it is just here that the high operation has obtained some of its most brilliant triumphs. Often it has occurred that the operator, going in by the perineum, finds the stone too large to extract. He then, perhaps, attempts to break it, and fails. Finally, he opens the bladder above the pubic symphysis, takes out the stone, and recovery crowns his efforts. Tumors have several times been removed by this same double manoeuvre, and it is fair to raise the question whether the success of the high operation in these cases has not been more due to the thorough drainage of the bladder furnished by the free lateral incision than to any other cause; and whether, in a contemplated case of the high operation, it would not be good surgery, as a preliminary step, to perform either lateral cystotomy or the median operation with a large tube tied in for drainage, rather than to incur the danger of infiltration and inflammatory disturbances incident to the unnatural and un- drained outlet furnished to the urine in the roof of the bladder. The Guyon- Perier method of drainage lately adopted in France may, perhaps, answer as well. If this method of reasoning be accurate, it follows, if any lithotomy is to be employed, that (1) for small stones, when the bladder is not inflamed, the median operation is appropriate; (2) for small stones, when the bladder is inflamed, unless the operator proposes to tie in a tube through the perineum,