RAPID LITHOTRITY. 321 trity, when it means the invariable completion of the operation at a single sitting, may mean suffering, disaster, and death. Long sittings are not invariably well borne, and are, therefore, not invariably wise. It must not be imagined that, because the patient is anaesthetized, no inconvenience will result from prolonged manipulation. The same intolerance of instruments may exist when the patient is asleep as when he is awake, though he may be unable to give any outward manifestation of that intolerance. To generalize the application of long sittings, therefore, is a grave error, and success is more likely to attend the practice of those who correctly appreciate the degree of irritability proper to the individual bladder, and proportion the length and duration, and the force, of their manipulations, with due regard to the balance of all the parts entering into the formation of the urinary apparatus, than of those who regard only the size and hardness of a calculus, and the cubic capacity of the viscus which contains it. Xot alone has the bladder to be considered: to my mind the condition of the urethra is of still greater moment; not alone its calibre, but its individuality, so to speak; and more than these, the kidneys—those organs which are so often at fault in calculous subjects, and which, unluckily for the operator and for the patient also, may be diseased without giving rise to any appreciable abnormal condition of the urine. The first break in my last series of thirty-five successful eases of lithotritv occurred in this way. One of the most marked modifications of this operation, which more than any other, perhaps, has undergone important changes since the days of Civiale, who, less than sixty years ago, first introduced it to notice, is the getting rid, without cutting, of a stone even of considerable size at a single sitting. This important modification is due in principal measure to Dr. Bigelow, of Boston, who advocates crushing the stone, and washing out all the debris, at a single sitting. It will not take from the great credit due to Professor Bigelow, for it to be said that the recommendation to wash out the bladder did not originate with him. More than twelve years ago, Dr. L. Aug. Mercier, in a little book entitled “ Traitement preservatif et curatif des sediments, de la gravelle, de la pierre urinaire, et de diverses maladies dependant de la diathese urique,” recommended washing out the bladder, and gave a cut of an instru- ment made for him for the purpose some years before by Charriere, of Paris, and which was not unlike the first India-rubber bag employed in this country. Mercier’s method was not generally adopted, however, and it was usual till quite recently to trust to chance for the passage of the fragments. It was only when chance did not sufiice that return was again had to the 1 ithotrite, and to large-sized, large-eyed catheters, or to the use of a small scoop. But the instrument now used by Bigelow so far surpasses Mercier’s, that it may be said to be a new one; and the knowledge acquired, chiefly through the observations of American surgeons, of the greater calibre of the male urethra and of its greater tolerance of large-sized metallic instruments than was formally believed, has changed the views of lithotritists as to the best means of dealing with the fragments of a calculus. Judging from the im- provements which are constantly being made in it, Bigelow’s instrument may not yet have reached its highest point of perfection ; but in its latest form1 it closely approaches it. There remain to be said a few words on the method of using it; the work of crushing being ended, a eanula of the full size of the urethra is introduced, when, warm water being in readiness and the eanula being attached to the pumping apparatus, the slightest pressure of the fingers and thumb on the rubber ball—a force not more than sufficient to dimple its walls—suffices to 1 See Fig. 1232, page 238, supra. VOL. VI.—21