1008 ORTHOPAEDIC SURGERY. another important character of the distortion is also illustrated ; from the partial recovery of the anterior muscles, the extensors of the foot are to some degree antagonized, so that the heel is not drawn up to the same extent that it is in the condition of persistent paralysis illustrated in Fig. 1465. If the forepart ot the toot, in front of the astragalus and os calcis, is hidden from view, the heel will be found to be in its normal position; therefore, if the distortion of the foot itself, the shortening of the sole, and the contrac- tion of the toes, were removed, the patient would be able to stand well on the plantar surface of the foot. If allowed to continue unrelieved, this con- Fig. 1460. Fig. 1467. Paralytic equinus ; partial recovery of anterior muscles. Paralytic equinus ; severe stage of same deformity as shown in Fig. 1466. dition of deformity passes on to a state of great severity; the continued pressure on the arch of the foot still further increases the shortening of the sole, as is shown in Fig. 1467, and the forepart of the foot, which touches the ground, spreads out and becomes abnormally wide. In this case there is on the dorsum of the foot a marked prominence at the seat of the calcaneo- cuboid and astragalo-scaphoid articulations (the transverse tarsal joint), arising from the bones in the front of the foot becoming depressed, and from the head of the astragalus being exposed and projecting forwards on the dorsum. Spasmodic Equinus.—Talipes equinus, the result of spasmodic contraction, differs in some important respects from the paralytic variety of the deformity, the chief feature being that the distortion of the foot itself is not as severe. The extensor muscles of the foot are especially liable to become affected with spastic contraction, from irritation of the nerve-centres during infancy, and a gradual shortening of the gastrocnemius and soleus muscles, with con- traction of the tendo Achillis, occurs. This contraction is increased when the subject uses the muscles in walking, and thus it often happens that a child in whom the shortening is not sufficient to prevent the foot from being fairly flexed on the leg, when examined with the muscles at rest, is yet unable to place the heels on the ground when walking ; from this state the contraction