CONSTRUCTION AND ORGANIZATION OF HOSPITALS. 1097 This is shown by experiments which were made by myself, with chemical examinations of the air by Dr. Wood, at the Boston City Hospital, and which were published in the Report of the State Board of Health of Massachusetts, in 1879. Commenting upon these experiments, Dr. De Chaumont1 says that they “show that above 12 feet there is little or no movement in the air, except towards the outlet ventilators ; the space above is therefore of little value as ventilation space. Additional height adds also to the cost of construction, increases the expense of warming, makes cleaning more difficult, and to some extent hampers ventilation.” A valuable statement of the views of this author may be found in the work of Mouat and Snell.2 In surgical and fever wards, the linear wall space may be increased to 8 or 9 feet, as at the Edinburgh Hospital, which will give a floor space of 112 or 126 feet for each bed, and a cubic space of 1568 feet or 1764 feet, respectively. In hospitals of from 50 to 100 beds, the wards may be of from 10 to 16 beds each, for purposes of classification, with care in arrangement to promote economy of service. The cubic space per bed in such wards should be at least 1500 or 2000 feet, and for separation-rooms 2000 or 3000 feet. Arched ceilings for one story and upper wards are advantageous, if there are ventilating openings in the centre. In an ordinary pavilion-ward of 24 beds, there may be 7 windows on each side, and thus there will be two beds between each pair of windows and a window between the end beds and the end wall—an excellent arrangement which has been adopted at the Johns Hopkins Hospital. In some surgical wards, with more linear wall-space per bed, a window to each may be allowed. ' The windows should have an area equal to 25 or 30 square feet for each bed; this estimate may include the end windows, which should be large, and which it is desirable to have in bays. They should have their sills at 2 or 2J feet from the floor, and their tops within 1 foot of the ceiling. The upper two feet may be arranged as a transom, with the sash hinged at the bottom and opening inward, and with side pieces of sheet copper, to cover the tri- angular spaces when open, and to direct the entering air upward to the ceil- ing. The main portion should have double windows in cold climates, and may be arranged with cords and weights, as on the whole the simplest, and most convenient and manageable plan. Casement windows, with sills at the floor-level, are useful when there are verandas. In the arrangement of the ward it is better that there should be no service- rooms at the outer end. Dining and examining rooms, small separation-wards, etc., are most conveniently placed at the end at the entrance of the building, and the bath-rooms and water-closets should be near these, with intervening lobbies, leaving the other end of the ward to be made cheerful by pleasant windows with a sunny exposure. In a long ward there is a tendency to the movement of air in the direction of its axis, from the more exposed end, and from any service-rooms that may be there, towards the end which is kept warm by adjoining rooms. There should be one or two separate rooms, for one or two beds each, at- tached to each ward; and for service-rooms, a dining-room with food lift, with arrangement for making tea, etc., and for warming food, a scullery or duty room, a small day-room for the head nurse, with water-closet adjoining, rooms for linen and patients’ clothing, and a broom-closet. The bath-room and lava- tory may open directly upon the service-corridor, for convenience of use, and the bath-tub should be free from the wall on all sides, or except at one end ; 1 Encyclopaedia Britannica, ninth edition. Art. “ Hospitals.” 2 Treatise on Hospital Construction, Part ii. p. 50.