569 HYDROCELE. thighs, and by the use of the elastic bandage.1 The operator may also, having applied the protective and a piece of eucalyptus gauze dipped in the carbolic- acid lotion, freely dust the part with iodoform, and envelop the scrotum in salicylic-acid wool; this makes a safe and comfortable dressing, as it keeps up pressure which expedites the cure. The patient leaves his bed in a week, but must use a suspensory bandage for some time; when the antiseptic dress- ings are left off, he may apply a piece of lint spread with boraeic ointment; the antiseptic dressings have to be changed as often as the discharge soaks through. Total adhesion of the sac has been observed to take place, even when it lay in folds. In some of the cases reported, orchitis was present for the first few days after the operation. The treatment of hydrocele by antiseptic incision is especially useful when the injection of iodine has failed; when the sac is very large and has very thick, cartilaginous or calcareous, walls, which do not collapse when the fluid is removed; when the hydrocele is congenital; or when it is necessary to explore for encysted hydrocele, cysts, or loose bodies. Doubtless this is a safe and certain method of cure, but it requires for its performance the administration of an anaesthetic, and the use of special appa- ratus and dressings, and it is more likely to go wrong from indiscretion on the part of the patient, than is the operation by the injection of iodine. Patients who are too ill or too aged to be subjected to the treatment by in- jection, had better be contented with palliative measures. Stimulation of the tunica vaginalis by an electric 'probe or electric needles introduced into the sac, and the sewing together of the walls of the tunica vaginalis by sutures, have been recommended, but are unnecessarily severe methods. After injection, adhesions may form, but are not necessary to a radical cure, as the balance between secretion and absorption may be restored without their presence. Inguinal hydrocele is the name given to a collection of fluid in the tunica vaginalis, when this incloses a testicle which has not descended into the scro- tum but has remained in the inguinal canal. These cases are interesting from a diagnostic point of view, and are not common, since, in cases of retained tes- ticle, the inguinal process of the tunica vaginalis generally communicates with the peritoneum. The swelling occupies the inguinal region, feels like a cyst, fluctuates, and is, in some instances, transparent. The scrotum on the affected side is empty, the testicle, which is small and undeveloped, being in the inguinal canal, where it can sometimes be felt in the swelling. These cases have been treated by incision, by injection, and by passing a seton through the sac. The best plan of treatment is, with antiseptic precautions, to make an incision into the sac, or to remove the testicle, which will often be found to have suffered a fibroid degeneration and to be devoid of the cells which secrete spermatozoa. Congenital Hydrocele.—In cases of congenital hydrocele the inguinal pro- cess of the tunica vaginalis remains open, and the swelling fluctuates, is trans- parent, and has an impulse on coughing, owing to its passage up the inguinal canal; it is smaller in the morning than at night, and on making firm pres- sure on the swelling, the fluid is squeezed into the abdomen, but reappears, slowly or not according to the size of the opening, when the patient stands up, even though slight pressure be made on the external ring. On the reduction of the fluid into the abdomen, the testicle is felt. The diagnosis between con- genital hydrocele and congenital hernia will be facilitated by remembering that in hydrocele there is dulness on percussion, and that the swelling disap- 1 See Vol. II. p. 73, Fig. 219, supra.