346 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE BLADDER AND PROSTATE. funnel, with about two feet of rubber tubing, to the end of a catheter. 'When the funnel is held up and water poured iuto it, the current passes into the bladder ; by lowering the funnel, the water escapes. In this way the viscus can be thoroughly cleansed; or the same can be effected by means of a rubber Fig. 1285. Double-current catheter for washing out the bladder. bottle or syringe, fitted to the end of an ordinary catheter, or, which some surgeons prefer, a double-current catheter. Where it is necessary to continue the operation for a length of time, Keyes’s apparatus will be found exceed- ingly useful. From the accompanying sketch (Fig. 1286) this is seen to consist of a vulcanized-rubber bottle, which is capable of holding a pint of fluid, and which, by means of a ring, can be suspended to any convenient hook ; and a piece of tubing, five feet in length, terminating in a stopcock, which per- mits fluid to flow either through the catheter-end or the outlet-pipe, accord- ing to the direction in which the tap is turned. A conical, metallic, catheter mouth-piece completes the connection with the catheter. A soft-rubber ca- theter is generally preferred. The in- strument is used in the following way: The bag, being filled with the fluid to be injected, is hung up about six feet from the floor; the stopcock is then turned until some of the fluid escapes, so that no air is allowed to enter the blad- der. The patient being in the erect position, then introduces the catheter, and connects it with the tubing. By the alternate action of the tap, the fluid is made either to enter the bladder, or to escape; if the latter, it passes into the receptacle. The instrument can he readily adapted to the recumbent posi- tion. Beyond other advantages which the apparatus possesses, it enables patients to perform this operation without assistance. Care should be taken to prevent the forcing of air into the bladder along with the fluid injected. When the urine is "bloody, the presence of air in the bladder speedily leads to putrefactive changes and to the evolution of gas inconsiderable quantities, which not only is offensive, but is capable of producing retention of a very painful character. There is a source of annoyance that patients occasionally complain of, which it is easy to avoid. As the bladder is expelling the last portion of the injec- Fig. 1286. Keyes’s apparatus for irrigation of the bladder.