65, OPERATIVE TREATMENT OF INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTION. by Dr. Willard, of Philadelphia, and by Dr. Fuller, of Michigan. A case in the hands of Auflret, of Brest, however, ended fatally a few hours after the operation. Operative Treatment of Intestinal Obstruction. Paracentesis or Puncture of the Bowel.—The simplest operation which is performed in cases of intestinal obstruction is that of puncturing one or more distended coils with a tine trocar and canula, or with the hollow needle of an aspirator. This procedure, which has been especially recommended by Gross, Demarquay, Wagstaffe, and Dozzi, often affords great relief by allow- ing the escape of gas, and even of liquid feces, from the distended bowel. I have myself employed it with advantage as a palliative measure, ancf it has occasionally proved curative, probably in cases of extreme flexion, or what Mr. Treves calls “kinking,” of the bowels, and possibly in some cases of volvulus, or even of internal hernia. The operation is not, however, entirely free from risk, as fecal extravasation has occasionally followed, and death, directly traceable to the puncture, ensued in three out of ten cases recorded by Frantzel, of Berlin. A slender instrument should be employed, and if distended coils of intestine can be recognized through the abdominal wall, the puncture may be made in one of these. Several punctures may, if neces- sary, be made in succession, at different points, and the operation maybe repeated as often as necessary. In a remarkable case recorded by Dr. Blake, and cited by Mr. Treves, no less than 150 punctures were made in the course of eighteen weeks. Paracentesis may occasionally be useful in facilitating diagnosis by relieving tympany, and thus permitting more accurate examination of the abdomen. It has also been recommended as a preliminary to laparotomy, in which operation the escape from the abdomen of distended coils of intestine forms a serious complication. Under the name of enterocentesis, a French writer, Dr. Larguier des Bancels, recommends puncturing the bowel with a large trocar and canula, the latter being retained in position for several days. This operation is justly con- demned by Mr. Treves, who characterizes it as “an enterotomy performed in the dark,” and I cannot see that it presents any advantages over that proce- dure, while it is in many respects its inferior. Laparotomy.—This term (for the introduction of which into English and American surgical literature I believe that I am myself chiefly responsible)1 has long been used by German writers to denote the operation of simple abdominal section for whatever purpose performed. Laparotomy (zartdpa, the soft part of the body below the ribs, and I cut) is in itself essentially an exploratory operation, which may or may not be followed by incision or excision of any of the abdominal viscera. It is a better term than gastrotomy, which is also applicable to, and should I think be reserved for, the operation of opening the stomach. Laparotomy appears to have been first suggested as a remedy for intussus- ception by Praxagoras, of Cos, one of the Asclepiadse, who flourished about three and a half centuries before the Christian era. This statement is made on the authority of a passage in the work of Ctelius Aurelianus on Acute Diseases2 (for no writings of Praxagoras himself have come down to pos- 1 See the Article already referred to in the Amer. Journal of the Med. Sciences, July, 1874. 2 De Morbis Acutis et Chronicis, lib. iii. cap. xvii. pag. 244. Amstelod. 1722. VOL. VI.—5