INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE BLADDER AND PROSTATE. 3G8 common-sense explanation in reference to the peculiar dread which the patient has, is often not without avail. The strange vagaries that are sometimes met with under these circumstances, are apt to try the patience of those who have to listen to their narration, and indicate that the head has often more to do with the irritability than the bladder. Such cases are benefited by the various preparations of iron, nux vomica, strychnine, and phosphorus, in addition to other hygienic measures. Persons who have had reason, how- ever slight, for believing that they suffer from stricture, not unfrequently develop irritable bladder. I have seen this condition follow on all kinds of misapprehension in regard to normal acts of micturition ; upon the unskilful introduction of instruments undertaken with the object of removing the patient’s doubts ; or on a groundless dread of inability to void urine, inducing a frequent repetition of the act, which has eventually resulted in the setting up of irritability. It is astonishing how many persons may be completely cured of this symptom by demonstrating to them the ease with which a bougie may be made to enter the bladder. Irritability dependent on reflected, action is most commonly met with in children and young persons. An illustration of this cause is furnished by the irritation attending the presence of intestinal worms; and similarly, the cutting of a tooth in a child has been known to produce the same effect. In youths, particularly, and even those of more advanced age, a constant desire to mictu- rate may be kept up by an elongated and contracted prepuce, retaining secre- tions which have excited local inflammation. Irritability dependent upon structural charges in the urinary organs, growths, and calculous affections, is a frequent concomitant of those disorders; nor are these causes entirely confined to such diseases of the urinary organs as more commonly come under the notice of the surgeon. Certain forms and stages of purely renal affections do not seldom give rise to this symptom. Similarly, irritation is provoked by enlargement of the prostate, particu- larly at the commencement of the disease. At this stage it would be more correct to speak of it as senile engorgement of the prostatic veins, a condition which often precedes and is mistaken for the structural enlargement of the gland with which we are familiar. The irritability connected with the prostatic engorgement shows itself chiefly at night. The patient is perfectly well during the day, but as soon as he gets into bed he experiences a desire to pass water, which further disturbs his rest by provoking other calls after intervals of varying extent; or it may show itself by inducing a state of more or less priapism, which equally interferes with sleep. During the day, as already stated, the patient is free from irritability; it only occurs at night. In this condition, physical examination with the finger in the rectum, or a catheter in the bladder, frequently fails to detect any signs of prostatic hyper- trophy ; possibly all that may be noted is a distended or varicose condition of the veins immediately in front of the finger. Provided, as is most usually the case, that there is nothing in the state of the urine to account for this, some very simple expedients are not unfrequently of service in remedying, if not entirely putting a stop to, this symptom. The wearing of warm socks at night, or the use of a hot bottle to the feet, by determining a flow of blood to the legs has often been useful—a fact which leads to the belief that the appearance of this symptom only at night is due to some alteration in the venous condition of the part, by reason of the change in position. Senile engorgement and hypertrophy of the gland not only follow in suc- cession, but the two conditions frequently coexist. Irritability of the bladder arising from an enlarging prostate, is usually determined without difficulty by physical examination. It will be noticed that the irritability of hyper- trophy varies somewhat in the precise mode of its causation. In the earlier