INJURIES AND DISEASES OP THE URETHRA. 424 The arrest of the instrument indicates that it has reached this level and that the first stage is complete. In reality, in order that the beak shall penetrate the curved portion of the canal, it is indispensable that it shall go through half a revolution, in such a manner that its extremity shall follow the upper wall, its heel corresponding to the lower. As soon then as the surgeon feels the resistance which the floor of the bulb offers, he brings the penis and the instrument back gradually toward the median line of the abdomen, and it is seldom necessary even to give a slight movement of rotation to the handle of the sound in order that its beak shall engage in the membranous portion of the canal. Commonly this movement of the sound is executed spontane- ously, and the surgeon should rather follow than direct the movement of the instrument. Second Stage.—As soon as the beak of the instrument has penetrated the opening of the membranous portion, the handle tends to rock forward of itself. The hand of the surgeon has, so to speak, no other function than to follow this movement, supporting the sound gently and holding it in the median line. But the left hand, on the contrary, plays a very important pai’t; abandoning the penis, it should be applied fiat to the pubic region and made to depress strongly the soft parts which cover the pubis. The ob- ject of this movement is to depress and relax the suspensory ligament of the penis, and consequently to diminish the curve of the mem- branous portion of the urethra. Third Stage.—In the normal state this third stage blends with the second stage, and is accomplished, so to speak, without the knowledge of the surgeon. The sound, con- tinuing its movement of rocking forward, passes rapidly through the membranous and prostatic portions, and reaches the bladder. Onlyyarely is it necessary to aid this progression by a very light propul- sion of the instrument. This third ocage, so easy in the normal state, often presents the greatest difficulties in pathological cases, and requires certain special manoeuvres which have been indicated in the article on diseases of the prostate. The fact that the instru- ment has reached the bladder is recognized when the instrument can be moved freely in all directions. At this moment the exploration of the urin- ary reservoir begins. The sound is gently pushed on until it touches the posterior wall, and then is brought forward after its beak has been successively inclined to the right and left. By these manoeuvres the capacity of the bladder is ascertained, as well as the condition of its lateral walls, and the condition of the neck. To explore the lower Avail and the bas-fond, the beak of the instrument is turned downward and drawn gently toward the neck of the bladder. Finally, the examination of the upper wall requires the lowering of the handle, which carries up the bent extremity of the instrument. By these various manoeuvres one can not only acquire information as to the degree of Fig. 1309. Exploratory sounding: second stage.