INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE BLADDER AND PROSTATE. 330 been due to the giving way of the sutures which at the post-mortem examina- tion was found to have taken place. In no class of cases have more brilliant results been obtained than in those involving the opening and exploration of the abdominal cavity, and the manipulation of the organs contained in it; and it is reasonable to infer that ruptures of the bladder, now almost always fatal, will some day be brought within the range of this procedure. Fischer, of Buda-Pesth,1 from a series of experiments on dogs, draws the conclusion that, in wounds of the bladder, success depends almost entirely on the accuracy with which the sutures are placed. He used for this purpose catgut and antiseptic silk, and anticipates a greater success in man by reason of the possibility of retaining a catheter in the bladder. Dr. E. Vincent,2 of Lyons, in a paper on laparotomy and intra-peritoneal cystorraphy in dogs and rabbits, draws equally hopeful conclusions with regard to wounds of the human bladder. Ilis method of procedure consisted in opening the abdomen and the blad- der ; sometimes portions of the wall of the latter were removed. By then temporarily closing the parietal wound, only urine was allowed to remain in contact with the viscera. Subsequently the abdomen was reopened and cleansed, after which the wound in the bladder was carefully closed and the parietal opening again adjusted with sutures. Recovery took place, in rab- bits, in cases where the peritoneum had been exposed to the action of the urine for as long as forty-eight hours. (2) In the second variety of cases the bladder is ruptured outside the line of its;peritoneal investment. Recovery may occur in spite of the severe nature of the lesion, provided that free vent be given to any urine which is extravasated. The following case maybe regarded as typical of this kind of rupture, and illustrates the main principle in treatment upon which it is necessary to lay stress:— A middle-aged man came under my care, in 1866, for injuries about the pelvis caused by a fall of earth in some dock excavations. There was a fracture of the right ilium, with considerable bruising of the adjacent parts. On passing a catheter, the bladder appeared to be contracted on the end of the instrument, and only a few drachms of blood- stained fluid escaped.* The patient remained in a state of collapse all the day of his admission into hospital, and in the evening I found that no urine had escaped by the catheter, which had been retained. The perineum externally was somewhat tumid, but not discolored. On passing a finger into the rectum, a fulness could be felt in front of the bowel, which rendered the line of the prostate quite undistinguishable. Under these circumstances it was thought best to make a perineal incision in the median line, in the direction of the neck of the bladder. This was done, and resulted in the dis- charge of blood-clots mixed with urine. On examining the wound with the lingers, the prostate was found separated from the underlying structures, and on its under surface could be felt a depression, which proved to be the end of a laceration. Through this extensive incision blood-stained urine continued to flow during the six days that the patient lived. Ilis other injuries added to this one proved too much for him, and he sank from exhaustion on the seventh day. At the post-mortem examination the pros- tate and neck of the bladder were found completely separated from the parts beneath, and there was a rent in the bladder, commencing an inch behind the prostate and ex- tending forwards through it. The wound did not communicate with the peritoneum, and there were no signs of peritonitis. In addition, there was a comminuted fracture of the right ilium, passing downwards within the brim of the pelvis. The practice adopted in this case would have probably saved the patient’s life had there been no injuries beyond those of the bladder and prostate, as the incision provided a free and direct escape for urine. The reasons for concluding that the bladder was ruptured within reach of the finger, in addi- 1 Trans. International Med. Congress. London, 1881. 2 Ibid.