570 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. pears gradually on making firm pressure, unattended by any gurgling sound, descends slowly in spite of finger-pressure on the external ring, and does not come down suddenly when the patient cries or coughs. It is soft and per- fectly even on the surface, and when distended with fluid feels fluctuant and is transparent. A congenital hernia, on the other hand, is resonant on per- cussion ; when pressed upon, goes hack at first slowly and then with a slip, otten gurgling as it does so; is easily kept up by finger-pressure on the ex- ternal ring, hut forces its way downwards into the scrotum when the finger is removed and the patient cries or coughs. Mr. Curling1 mentions two very rare cases of congenital hydrocele. In one the testicle was retained in the abdomen or canal, but the vaginal process of peritoneum contained fluid, being covered only by skin and superficial fascia. In the other a con- genital hydrocele followed a late transition of the testicle, unaccompanied by a hernial descent. Treatment.—Congenital hydrocele occurs generally in infants, but is met with occasionally in adults, and may he cured in them by the method of anti- septic incision—a plan which would not he suitable in the case of an in- fant, as the dressings could not be efficiently applied. The pressure of a truss, however, will cause a closure of the opening, and the fluid, which in all pro- bability comes from the peritoneal cavity, will be absorbed. If it be thought desirable, when the case does not get well after the use of a truss, the canal can be closed by passing a carbolized catgut ligature subcutaneously around the funicular process of the tunica vaginalis. Many cases have been cured by tapping and injecting iodine, care having been taken to press on the external abdominal ring at the time of the operation. This plan seems to be devoid of danger. In this operation the tincture of iodine may commonly be allowed to flow out, but in some cases it lias been found necessary to leave a portion behind. It is thought desirable to cure these cases, in order to pre- vent the possibility of a hernia forming, and also to avoid the occurrence of general peritonitis from inflammation spreading up along the tunica vaginalis, in consequence of inflammation of the testicle. Encysted Hydrocele of the Testicle.—In these cases cysts are formed independently of the tunica vaginalis, and are associated with the epididymis or the body of the testicle. In the most common variety of encysted hydro- cele, the cyst or cysts are associated with the epididymis, and are covered by the visceral layer of the tunica vaginalis, which is reflected over that part; two kinds have been described by M. Gosselin,2 viz. (1) the small or subse- rous, and (2) the large or parenchymatous cysts. Cysts situated in front of the testicle itself, lying between and separating the tunica vaginalis and the tunica albuginea, are so rare as to be curiosities. (1) The subserous or small cysts of the epididymis are transparent cysts placed in the subserous cellular tissue, and are unconnected with the efferent tubes ; their contents are clear or milky, and contain no spermatozoa; at times they become pedunculated. They have been called the hydatids of Morgagni. They are common after forty years of age (Gosselin). An attempt has been made by Hr. Banks to associate these cysts with the ducts of Muller, traces of which are to be found in this situation ; but they are common only in adult life, and never contain spermatozoa. (2) The parenchymatous or large cysts are spermatic cysts developed in the neighborhood of the head of the epididymis, in the cellular tissue under the tunica vaginalis. They are lined with tesselated epithelium, are as a rule single, and are intimately related to the efferent tubes. The cyst enlarges, 1 Op. cit., p. 155. 2 Arch. Gen. de Med., 4eme ser., t. xvi.