292 URINARY CALCULUS. edly this quantity must vary in different cases. The distention of the rectum brings the bladder plainly into view above the pubis. An incision is now made exactly in the middle line, three or four inches long, stopping at the pubic symphysis. The deep fascia is incised upon a director over the entire length of the superficial cut, and the sulcus between the recti muscles is sought. If the pyramidales are in the way, the muscular fibres are to be cut directly through in the middle line. ISTo tearing or pull- ing asunder is allowable, such separation of the elements of the muscle favoring infiltration. The incision must be as clean as possible. After getting through the muscle, a yellow layer of fat is exposed, covered by the transversalis fascia. This thin fascia is seized with forceps in the middle line, near the lower angle of the wound, a button-hole incision is made, and the left forefinger is introduced, pulp upwards. The forefinger thus placed now pushes upwards the yellow layer of fat, carrying before it the peritoneal cul-de-sac. This is Guyon’s manoeuvre. lie says that by practising it the peritoneum is never seen. The cellulo-adipose layer, between the bladder and pubis, is not to be disturbed at all, and no effort is made to reach the neck of the bladder low down in front. Such unnecessary burrowing with the finger behind the bone invites infiltration. The finger which has pushed up the fat and the peritoneum is maintained in position in the upper angle, and serves as a guide to the point of the bistoury, which is made to puncture the bladder at this point, and to continue the incision downwards in the middle line from one and a quarter to one and three-quarters inches, according to the size of the calculus. A tenaculum, or the old-fashioned hooked gorget, or any suitable blunt hook, might be used here to hold up the upper angle of the wound in the bladder. Villeneuve and Guy on make no mention of the need of any such contrivance, saying that the finger follows the bistoury into the bladder and at once finds the stone.1 In making the incision into the distended bladder, no attention is to be paid to a plexus of prominent veins which are seen over the front wall of the organ, and which may lie directly in the line of the proposed incision. It tears the tissues to attempt to ligate them. They are to be cleanly cut through. The hemorrhage, sometimes considerable at first, becomes arrested as the bladder collapses. If no veins are seen, Petersen’s manoeuvre may be adopted, cutting slowly into the muscular layers of the bladder until the mucous mem- brane projects through the lips of the vesical wound, then seizing the latter and incising it. The liquid having run out, the next step is to untie the penis and remove the catheter. As this is being done the finger of the surgeon follows the bistoury into the bladder, detects the stone and places it in a position favora- ble for removal. The forceps follow the finger, seize the stone, and extract it slowly, and with care not to bruise the sides of the vesical incision. If the latter be too small it should be enlarged toward the neck of the bladder with a probe-pointed bistoury, as the stone is held in the forceps. All the stones having been extracted, and any debris or clot removed, the bladder is to be carefully washed with the boracic-acid solution and the rectal tampon withdrawn. Two large parallel tubes of soft red rubber, fenestrated only at their ex- tremity, are now to be introduced upon the finger to the bottom of the bladder near the vesical neck. These tubes must be long enough to mount over the pubes and enter a urinal placed in the bed between the patient’s 1 Since this article has been in type, I learn that Guyon now has the lips of the vesical wound held apart by loops of silk ligature inserted on either side. (Annales de Dermatologie et de Sypki- ligrapliie, Nov. 1885.)