DANGERS AND ADVANTAGES OF LITHOTRITY. 309 -sidered a necessity. But the use of a straight instrument led to the invention of the lithotrite, which was again, in its turn, brought to a curve as the form of greatest adaptability. The first lithotrites were curved; but they were soon afterwards made straight, to be again curved as they are now, and are ever likely to remain. It is useless to trace the gradations from the rough, complicated, and unsafe instruments of fifty y£ars ago, to the elegant, light, yet strong lithotrites of to-day. The circumstance that a bloodless operation for the removal of stone was found to be possible, was sufficient to stimulate the ingenuity alike of surgeon and instrument-maker in many countries in Europe; and America, in the person of Ash mead, evinced a like interest. It stimulated, at the same time, an interest in the subject of lithotomy, and reopened a considera- tion of the various procedures for removing the stone whole. But the two Frenchmen already named, to whom must now be joined Amussat, Charriere, Ileurteloup, Mereier, Recamier, and Tonchu, of France, more recently Sir Henry Thompson, of England, and still more recently Prof. Bigelow, of Boston, have given in their beautiful closed and fenestrated instruments the best means of quickly reducing a stone to powder and of removing it from the bladder. Various have been the methods advocated during these fifty years, but they may be all reduced to (1) perforation; (2) perforation and divulsion, or excentric rupture ; (3) concentric or surface grinding ; (4) crushing. There is nothing brilliant in any of these methods, and no opportunity is afforded for dash or boldness, or even of sang-froid ; near assistants may hear nn occasional crushing sound ; but neither they nor the operator can see any- thing. The latter could operate equally well were he blind, for, from the beginning to the end of the operation, it is carried on in the dark. And not alone in the dark, but the peccant body, lying hidden within the bladder, is not touched save by a metallic instrument, many inches in advance of the operator’s fingers. From the first discovery of the stone till its final removal from the body, there is, there can lie, no contact except mediately through a metallic instrument. Of no operation in surgery can this more truly be said: “We see not what we attack, and touch not what we remove.” On several occasions I have published in the medical press some practical observations on lithotomy and lithotrity, and on the selection of the cases suit- able to each operation. But every succeeding year has taken from the former and added to the latter. Age, at one time considered an essential element in the choice, is so no longer. Even children in whom the shallowness of the perineum and the unirritating nature of the urine seemed fairly to indicate lithotomy, are now subjected to the • lithotrite. A or does old age, with its accompanying enlarged prostate, any longer forbid or render less satisfactory the operation of crushing, and since Mr. Henry Smith, of King’s College Hospital, London, lithotritized with success, more than twenty years ago, a man of more than eighty-one years, persons of the most advanced age have been similarly treated. The state of the urethra has much to do with the choice and also with the success of the operation; that tolerance or intolerance of the urethra—“the temper of the urethra,” as Sir Benjamin Brodie styled it—which “varies as much as the temper of the mind.” This tolerance or intolerance of the urethra for instruments may be easily understood by those who have noticed the great tolerance of some urethrae, and the equally great intolerance of others, for injections. There are some urethrae so tolerant of strong caustic and astrin- gent solutions as to appear unaffected by them ; while there are others so sen- sitive that even the most trifling addition to tepid water causes urethritis or cystitis of alarming severity. Injections of tepid water alone often