181 URINARY CALCULI OUTSIDE OF THE URINARY TRACT. into each other and about the glans penis, being often laminated and concavo- convex in shape, sometimes capping the glans penis, and perforated to allow the passage of urine. In size these calculi vary from a minute cluster of crystals up to concre- tions as large as an egg. In one of Kerr’s eases they weighed one ounce two drachms and two scruples, and Bardeleben1 refers to a stone reported by Dumeril, which weighed two hundred and fifty-five grammes—abbut eight ounces. This sounds improbable. Ko reference is given, and I have been unable to find the original report. Civiale2 speaks of a young man of twenty, with phimosis, who, after practising coitus for the first time, experienced pain and a purulent discharge. Civiale removed five stones as large as prunes. These had been felt by the patient, but he had supposed that it was perfectly natural to have them. The results of subpreputial stone are disturbance in the function of the penis, atrophy of the glans, and more or less ulceration and inflammation within the preputial cavity. The symptoms are hard lumps felt beneath the prepuce, more or less pain, purulent discharge, interference with urination and coitus, involuntary pol- lutions—in some cases, finally, impotence. The treatment consists in ablation of the prepuce with the calculi. Umbilical Calculi. Scattered instances are encountered of cases in which a calculus has been extracted or spontaneously voided from the umbilical region, a calculus pre- sumably formed in a pervious urachus, or a kidney-stone that has found its way out through this strange channel. Umbilical stones are generally phosphatic. Among the classical eases may be mentioned that of Boyer, who took twelve calculi out of a patulous urachus in a man of twenty-six, and that of Thomas Paget,3 of Leicester, who removed, from the patulous urachus of a patient, a ring-like, phosphatic concretion with a hail for a nucleus. An- other case, in a man of forty, is reported by II. C. Stewart.4 The calculus is called phosphatic, and described as being as large as a hazel-nut. II. D. Vosburg5 reports the case of a mechanic of fifty, from whose umbilical region a phosphatic stone as large as a hickory-nut was voided. A similar stone had been passed by the man in the same way twenty years previously. These records, and those of J. Dixon6 and several others, generally make no mention of urinary symptoms. The complaint is of local discomfort, the inflamma- tory swelling is obvious, and the foreign body is palpable. The latter seems fully capable of discharging itself under poulticing, and recovery follows. Urinary Calculi outside of the Urinary Tract. "Wherever urine may trickle through a fistulous track, secondary urinary -calculus may form, composed of triple and earthy phosphates, mixed often with some urate of ammonium. Stones also, starting within the urethra, may by ulceration get into the scrotum, perineum, or elsewhere, and increase ■enormously as outside stones. Civiale7 speaks of a stone taken from the 1 Lelirbuch der Cliirurgie, 7te Ausgabe, Bd. iv. S. 354. 2 Op. cit., p. 560. 3 Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. xxxiii. p. 294. (See Fig. 1114, Vol. V., p. 970, supra.) 4 Lancet, vol. ii. p. 294. 1849. 6 Lond. Med. Repository, N. S., vol. i. p. 291. 1824. 6 Ibid. 7 Op. cit., p 589.