SACCULATED BLADDER. 853 Sacculated Bladder. The formation of saccnli, or pouches, in connection with the bladder, is observed in cases of enlargement of the prostate and other disorders in which freedom of micturition is interfered with. It most frequently exists, as already stated, where hypertrophy of the muscular coat has taken place, the explanation being that the mucous membrane protrudes between the meshes of muscular fibres. In these depressions urine lodges. Under the pressure exercised by the bladder during micturition, these pouches deepen, until, perhaps, they are capable of containing several ounces of urine. They may form at any part of the bladder where the mucous lining is unsup- ported by muscular fibre. The presence of these sacs often occasions serious inconvenience; they are spaces in which urine collects and decomposes; not unfrequently calculi have been found in them; and in some recorded instances, by concealing sharp fragments of stone after lithotrity, they have contributed to the production of a fatal cystitis. Hence they are considerable sources of embarrassment to the surgeon in his treatment of many vesical affections— an embarrassment which is by no means lessened by the fact that their exist- ence is difficult to determine. The following case, recorded by Dr. Warren,1 illustrates some of the features of sacculated bladder:— The patient, fifty-two years of age, had had symptoms of vesical disease for twelve years. The urine was alkaline, contained pus, and was passed frequently and with pain. An examination with a sound detected a stone. Some vesical pain followed the passage of the instrument, and the urine became strongly ammoniacal; an attempt was therefore made to wash out the bladder with warm water injections, but the expulsive efforts were so great as to force out not only the water as fast as injected, but also the soft- rubber cptheter employed. Finally, a small quantity was introduced at a time, but, however often this was repeated, the injected water came away dark, and foul in odor. All the symptoms grew worse ; the urine was passed in a putrid state; and the patient died on the ninth day after the examination. At the autopsy, the bladder was found to consist of four compartments, three of which contained calculi. In the central one was a large phosphatic stone, nearly spherical, and five centimetres in diameter. The other stones were about two centi- metres in their longest diameters, and were somewhat flattened. They were dense, and probably consisted of urates. The walls of the bladder were much thickened, and there was a diphtheritic inflammation of its mucous membrane. The kidneys were large, soft, and contained small abscesses; the ureters were dilated. When the existence of sacculi is suspected, it is not a bad plan, after cathe- terizing the patient while recumbent, and thus emptying his bladder, to alter his position by making him stand, and then to see if more urine escapes on moving the catheter gently about; or the order in position may be reversed. Guthrie2 mentions the case of a gentleman in whom the existence of one or more pouches was determined by injecting the bladder with warm water; on withdrawing it only a portion would be obtained, and rarely the whole of it, even by any change of position. I saw a gentleman who had irritability of the bladder, and who was suspected to be suffering from stone. I had searched his bladder with a sound, and also with a catheter, for a cause, but in vain. One day, on examining him with a prostatic catheter, after having apparently emptied the bladder, in moving the instrument about I felt it suddenly pass over something with a jerk, and then, on gently pressing it, it, went a couple of inches further in. This was followed by the discharge of about two ounces of milky- looking urine. There was no bleeding. My patient went home, pondering over the 1 Boston Medical and Surgical Journal, March 21, 1878. 2 Op. cit., p. 30. VOL. VI.—23 .