INJURIES AND DISEASES OF T1IE BLADDER AND PROSTATE. 332 wall of the bladder, it may cause ulceration, and finally escape into the cavity of the peritoneum, thus permitting urine to become extravasated and causing death by the production of peritonitis in its most intense and fatal form. Any of these three events may happen, the probability of one or another being chiefly determined by the shape and bulk of the article. Symptoms.-—The presence of a foreign body in the bladder will be indicated by symptoms similar to those met with in stone: these will be, vesical irrita- bility in varying degree; pain, for the most part after micturition ; and pro- bably alkalinity and offensiveness of the urine. Exploration of the bladder with the sound will afford indications of the presence of a foreign body, or of the calculous incrustation in which it is imbedded. Sections of stone removed by lithotomy not unfrequently show the original nucleus to have been some small extraneous body, such as a piece of bone, the head of a pin, or a portion of slate-pencil. When a patient acquaints the practitioner with the precise nature of the accident which has happened to him, the former is prepared to remove the foreign body by means of a suitable instrument; but it not unfre- quently happens, especially with females, that deception is practised, and that no explanation of certain bladder symptoms is afforded until a thorough exam- ination is made with the sound. Even then, sometimes, the practitioner has to act on the presumption that the foreign body is a calculus. A case is recorded by Dr. Robert Abbe1 where he was proceeding to remove what he supposed to be a large calculus, after Bigelow’s method, when the discovery was made that the bladder contained a gum-elastic catheter encrusted with phosphates, which had slipped in six months previously. This was success- fully removed in two portions, by the lithotrite, and the patient made a good recovery. Treatment.—In the case of flexible bougies or portions thereof which have thus entered the bladder, their extraction may be effected with a smooth- bladed lithotrite. If not seized by their ends, gum elastic instruments are cSO yielding that, excepting the larger sizes, they may be generally brought Fig. 1280. Mercier’s instrument for removing elastic bougies from the bladder. away doubled up, by the exercise of a moderate amount of traction. This has been frequently done with success. Or Mercier’s instrument (Fig. 1280), which will permit of the removal of a larger-sized flexible catheter or bougie than can be extracted by the lithotrite, may be used. 1 Medical Record, Dec. 24, 1881.