491 VICES OF CONFORMATION OF THE URETHRA. Functional Disturbances.—The functional disturbances to which the existence of hypospadia gives rise, vary according to the degree of arrest of development* and according to its simplicity or complexity. They relate to micturition, copulation, and fecundation. Among glandular hypospadians, without too pronounced curvature of the penis, all these functions are accomplished almost normally. They only show a greater facility to contract gonorrhoea. In penile hypospadia, micturition can still be accomplished quite well, if the patient take pains to lift up the penis in order to thoroughly uncover the opening. Coitus itself is quite often possible, but fecundation is doubtful. In the scrotal and perineo-scrotal variety, the emission of urine is attended by very pronounced inconvenience resulting from the abnormal position of the opening, and from the peculiar disposition of the penis, which is applied against the scrotal cleft. The membranous and bulbous portions of the urethra being well developed, the urine is projected with force, but the fluid escapes in a vicious direction, and the stream, breaking against the penis, sprinkles on all sides, so that patients, afflicted with perineo-scrotal hypospadia are obliged to squat down, like women, in order to urinate, on pain of inundating their garments. If the urinary functions, simply embarrassed, are after all performed quite easily, it is different with the genital functions, which are completely obstructed. At the moment of erection, the penis, instead of straightening itself and taking a rectilinear direction, is incurvated at its lower part, in such a way that the glans is carried more and more backwards, and is hidden in the fissure of the scrotum. It will be understood that in such conditions copulation is absolutely impossible. Ejaculation takes place, but, for reasons already indicated in connection with the emission of urine, remains essentially unfecundating. Diagnosis.—Hypospadia is generally very easy to recognize, and the parts are hardly uncovered before the diagnosis is made. There are, however, certain circumstances, in which the solution of the problem may present some difficulty. Thus it has been possible to believe there was present a simple imperforation of the penis in certain cases of penile hypospadia, with an abnormal opening which was very narrow or hard to discover. But it is enough, in order to escape such an error, to make the patient urinate. Con- genital hypospadia might also be confounded with a splitting of the penis happening in consequence of a traumatism. I will cite in this connection the case reported by Chopart, in which an individual split his urethra grad- ually from the meatus to the scrotum; and I have myself seen a case of traumatic fistula, situated on the lower surface of the penis, which simulated hypospadia. But the external appearance, on the one hand, and the history, on the other, make it possible always to recognize the true nature of the deformity. A much more delicate question, raised by the diagnostic study of this de- formity, is that which treats of the determination of sex in individuals affected with perineo-scrotal hypospadia. When the testicles have completed their descent through the inguinal rings, their presence in the folds of the bifid scrotum will disperse all doubt. But it is quite different in cases in which these organs have not descended into the scrotum. Hot only does their absence cause the two scrotal halves to acquire a more marked resemblance to the labia majora of a woman, but, further, it impresses the whole organism with forms and characteristics which depart widely from the masculine type. However, all mistake in this connection may he avoided by carefully palpat- ing the abdomen, and by combining rectal exploration and sounding, with the object of determining the absence of the uterus, and of discovering in its place the prostate, which in cases of perineal hypospadia is neither atrophied nor deformed.