RETENTION AND INCONTINENCE OF URINE, ETC. 401 quent incontinence of urine, almost invariably attend fracture or dislocation in any part of the spinal column. As a rule, chronic cystitis rapidly super- venes on the retention, and phosphates are deposited in abundance, sufficient, in some cases, to form stone. Under these circumstances the disease is rarely completely recovered from ; if the injury be not sufficiently high up to occa- sion speedy death, the future comfort of the patient will, in a great measure, depend on the care displayed in the management of his bladder-affection. There are other changes occurring in the eerebro-spinal centres, which may ultimately cause the bladder to fail in discharging its contents. In these the process is a gradually increasing one, but the ultimate results, as far as this viscus is concerned—the rendering of the urine alkaline, the production of phosphates, and the deposition of ropy mucus in excess—are similar to those observed after injuries to the spine. Retention of urine frequently occurs in the course of fevers, such as typhus, where the functions of the nerve-cen- tres are more or less in, abeyance. Reflex irritation, as, for instance, that occasioned by the ligature of haemorrhoids, sometimes leads to retention. It will not be necessary to further illustrate causes of retention other than those in which the urinary organs are immediately concerned. Under this heading, however, it should be mentioned that injuries to the abdomen, in which the muscles only are involved, sometimes require the use of the catheter, the blad- der being rendered unable to expel its contents by reason of the pain which is produced on the patient’s attempting to make expulsive efforts. Similarly, I have seen the same thing happen in a case of extravasation of urine largely occupying the abdominal parietes, where muscles, cellular tissue, and skin, were all involved in the sloughing and suppuration which ensued. (2) Retention due to changes in the wall of the bladder by which it is rendered structurally incapable of performing its function, will be hereafter considered in speaking of vesical atony. The other causes of retention which depend on changes in the walls or contents of the bladder, include growths and calculi. The latter, by occasionally becoming impacted in the orifice of the urethra, may cause retention; a sudden stoppage in the stream of urine has often been noted as a symptom of stone. (3) The most frequent cause of retention of urine is hypertrophy of the prostate gland. Reference has already been made to the precise changes which take place in the prostatic urethra as a consequence of this hyper- trophy, whereby micturition is obstructed. When retention of urine occurs in males of advancing age, it is almost invariably due to this cause, a circum- stance which must be borne in mind both in the selection of a catheter and in the manner of its introduction. Certain inflammatory changes in the prostate are sometimes the cause of retention. Of these, mention may be made of the follicular form of prostatitis, which is not uncommonly seen as a consequence of gonorrhoeal urethritis. Such a retention may require the use of the catheter for its relief, and often this proceeding not only discloses the cause of the impediment, but removes it, by leading to the discharge of pus into the prostatic urethra, with immediate and permanent removal of the retention. (4) An obstructed urethra may occasion retention in various ways. In young children it is most frequently due to the impaction of a calculus; if this be overlooked and not removed by incision, extravasation of urine may occur, and the calculus may make its escape by sloughing, as I have seen, into either perineum or scrotum. More rarely, retention in the infant is caused by the almost complete occlusion of the preputial orifice. In the adult, either a gonorrhoeal or a traumatic stricture is the more frequent cause of retention. It not unfrequently happens that a complete stoppage to the discharge of urine suddenly takes place in a person who is suffering from vol. vi.—26