1064 ORTHOPAEDIC SURGERY. anterior surface, whilst the depression occurs on the side corresponding to the concavity of the curve on the posterior surface, and on the convex side on the anterior surface. 2. The external appearance presented by a case of lateral curvature in which the lower curve is longer than the upper, is illustrated in Fig. 1504; the upper curve is to the right side and extends from the fourth to the ninth dorsal vertebra, where the left curve begins and involves the rest of the column below. The contour of the body exhibited in this case, compared with the condition present in Fig. 1502, shows that increase in the length of the lower curve produces greater distortion of the lower part of the body, and that the shorter curve above gives rise to less deformity of the chest and shoulders. The flank on the right side is deepened to a very marked extent; on the left side the normal curve is almost entirely lost; in the upper part of the body the right shoulder is only slightly raised, and the right side of the chest is much less prominent. A like variation in the effects produced by the curvature will be found on the posterior and anterior surfaces: the ridge on the left side of the lumbar spine is larger and more marked, whilst the depression on the right is to the same degree increased ; the posi- tions of the right scapula and of the left breast are scarcely altered. 3. The conditions existing in the above cases show that deformity of the body is proportionate to the length of the curve in the spine ; the longer the curve the greater is the distortion, and vice versa ; in the third state of curvature, where the two curves are nearly equal in length, there is therefore less distortion of the trunk, because neither of the curves involves many vertebrae in its extent. In the case illustrated in Fig. 1505, two curves of about the same length have been formed, the upper to the right and the lower to the left side; the right shoulder is but slightly elevated and the flanks are not seriously affected ; in fact, to avoid repetition, it may be stated Fig. 1504, Fig. 1505. Lateral curvature of spine ; long lower curve. Lateral curvatnre of spine ; equal curves