41 GASTROSTOMY AND ENTEROSTOMY. the stomach is ever found in the cadaver. The cardiac extremity, as the fixed point of the stomach, is the guide that is wanted. All bleeding vessels should be secured immediately after division. The exposed peritoneum is to be punctured, and incised on a director to the full extent of the superjacent wound. Continental surgeons prefer short incisions. If the integumentary incision is no longer than four centimetres, it is said that the fibres of the rectus abdominis muscle1 are not encountered, and that the stomach is exposed at about what might be called the junction of its cardiac and iliac portions— probably the best point, for the cardiac extremity is inaccessible through the approved incisions. Great difficulty may be encountered in finding and recog- nizing the stomach. The colon has been known to have been opened in mis- take. The viscus is sometimes contracted from comparative disuse, and its walls may be in close apposition. Indeed, post-mortem examinations have shown the stomach opened at points quite different from those designed—even •close to the pylorus; but it does not appear that this has been a matter of much importance in the history of the case. The stomach should be picked up with forceps. Surgeons vary in the methods of securing the stomach to the ab- dominal walls. Some, with Langenbeck, pass a needle twelve centimetres in length through the abdominal wall, at about two centimetres’ distance from the left of the integumentary incision, then through the coats of the stomach into the viscus, and out again through the stomach, the peritoneum, and the abdominal wall on the right side of the incision. The exposed portion of the stomach is then stitched circularly to the edges of the integumentary wound, with numerous sutures, catgut or silk, or both. The fixation needle is removed in twenty-four hours, and the opening is made into the stomach on the fourth or fifth (lay. Some, like Albert, secure the stomach with numerous small sutures which are passed merely through the superficial coat of the viscus, and are stitched to the parietal peritoneum without any additional means of fixation. This plan is said to suffice admirably, and to be without any risk of rupture of stitches or escape of contents into the peritoneal sac. Some2 prefer the quill suture; some, and the majority, two rows of sutures;3 some, four deep and six or eight superficial sutures.4 It is considered essential that from one-quarter to one-third of an inch of stomach surface should be brought into contact with the abdominal wall. The insertion into the ex- posed portion .of the stomach of two guide-loops (Bryant) is recommended6 to facilitate the subsequent incision into the organ. Opening the Stomach.—When it is absolutely necessary to open the stomach without delay, so as to attempt the immediate rescue of a starving patient, the stomach can be drawn forward and secured to the external wound by numerous superficial sutures, and can then be opened by a minute longitudi- nal or oblique incision, admitting the introduction of a canula which fits so closely that, when it is secured in place, nothing can escape by its side. A canula with a plate like that of a tracheotomy-tube, but all in one piece, can, it is claimed,6 be very securely fastened by bandages and adhesive strips. This canula should be provided with stopcock, stopper, or obturator, to prevent escape of the contents of the stomach. When delay is permissible, the safer plan, by far, is to wait four or five days until the stomach has become agglutinated to the external wound, and then to make a longitudinal incision into it, of about one-eighth of an inch in length, to receive the tube intended to be used for feeding purposes. Some surgeons prefer to puncture the stomach with a small tenotome, making an aperture only large enough to 1 Albert, op. cit., S. 369. 2 Bryant, op. cit., p. 467. 3 Ilowse. 4 MacCormac, Brit. Med. Journal, August 2, 1884. 5 MacCormac, loc. cit. 6 Albert, op, cit.