INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS OF THE BONES. 866 bid state which Avas sufficient, under the influence of a violent movement, a blow, or a fall, to lead to the formation of pus in a part of the bone subjected to a trifling traumatism. But then the traumatism could only be considered as the determining cause of the localization, and not as the origin of the morbid state. But whence comes this morbid condition? In the majority of septic poison- ings we see the door of entrance of the infectious agent; we know the wound which is the starting-point of the pyaemia. But here, in the absence of any wound, we are obliged to seek in the mucous membrane of the lungs or intestines the route by which the infectious germ may have entered. These are questions which are still very obscure, and which would lead us too far if we should attempt to discuss them. Besides these primary septic intoxications, there are many cases in which, while admitting a general infectious state, a more important part must be assigned to the bone-lesion. If it is the first product of a general infection, it becomes a permanent centre of secondary infection. It is then the starting- point of pygemic processes, of infectious metastases, which may successively attack various other parts of the skeleton and the different internal organs. These two modes of infection present very great differences from a practical point of view. In the first case, all surgical intervention is useless ; in the second case, on the contrary, suppression of the first focus of infection may, by preventing secondary infection, permit the patient to recover, and thus save his life. The severity of the primary infection ought to regulate the conduct of the surgeon, and serve as the basis- of his prognosis. But in the ignorance in which we are yet as to the nature of the infecting agent and the attenuations of which it is susceptible, we ought always to be very reserved in the pres- ence of osteo-myelitis which is accompanied by typhoid phenomena. Chassaignac made the prognosis of acute osteo-myelitis very gloomy. He thought that nothing but amputation of the limb could save the patient, and that this was the sole means capable of arresting the consequences. For a long while the majority of surgeons adopted these pessimistic views, and amputa- tion Avas everywhere recommended. I have long opposed this despairing doc- trine, and have shown that the prognosis of acute osteo-myelitis, with typhoid phenomena, is much less grave in the country, in healthy surroundings, than in large hospitals or in the populous and unwholesome quarters of large cities. We receive into hospitals the sequelse of the infectious osteitis Avhich breaks out in the country, among peasants living in healthy neighborhoods. These are those necroses of the whole or greater part of a diaphysis, for which patients come after some months to ask the assistance of our art. We scarcely ever see necrosis arising in our hospital patients. They are carried oft’ in the course of infectious processes, or they succumb at a later period from chronic septicaemia, if the surgeon does not interfere by amputation or ablation of the bone. Children or adolescents are sometimes met with who have had at the same time, or near together, five or six attacks of osteitis of large bones of the limbs. I have, among others, had the care of a patient, who has had acute •osteitis seventeen times, either in the juxta-epipliyseal parts of the long bones of the limbs, or in the flat bones (ilium, cranium); he had tAvice, within a feAV years, sutural osteitis of the bones of the skull. The majority of his attacks of juxta-epiphyseal osteitis have ended in the separation of small sequestra; he is noAv completely cured. Infectious osteitis is seen especially during the period of growth of the