325 WOUNDS OF THE BLADDER. by the various observers to the thorough drainage which has thus become a necessary part of the management of these cases. All recorded observations indicate that there is, in this class of injuries, considerable danger of extra- vasation of urine occurring about the third or fourth day, when the sloughs are beginning to separate. Immediately following upon this we may have peritonitis, cellulitis, or septicaemia, which are frequent causes of death. Bullets and missiles lodged in the neighborhood of the bladder, have been known to make their way into it by ulceration, and military practice affords numerous examples in which urinary calculi have formed on such nuclei as bullets, pieces of shells, arrowheads, and other miscellaneous objects which entered in this manner. A wound of the bladder is generally indicated by the escape of urine, more or less bloody, through the laceration, or by the urethra. The position and direction of the opening may assist in the diagnosis. Pain along the course of the urethra, ineffectual attempts to urinate, vesical tenesmus, imperfect priapism, and shock, are other symptoms which are more or less prominent. In the treatment of wounds of the bladder, regard must be had mainly to those circumstances which usually bring about a fatal termination: these are urinary extravasation and peritonitis. Ho method of treating a wound of the bladder can be regarded as efficient which does not provide for the free escape of the urine, as fast as it is secreted. Where the wound opens into the peritoneal cavity, acute inflammation rapidly supervenes, and it often happens that peritonitis is far advanced before the practitioner has the opportunity of doing anything to avert it. Where there is reason to believe that urine is thus finding its way into the abdominal cavity, the position of the patient is one fraught with the greatest danger. Under the circum- stances it becomes a grave consideration whether we should content ourselves with such drainage from the Adder as a catheter would afford, or whether, by a perineal incision, wre should not provide an escape for the urine, at least as free as that by which it is finding its way into the peritoneal cavity. The cases recorded by Dr. Walker1 and Dr. Erskine Mason2 favor the adoption of the latter proceeding. In both instances there wTas rupture of the bladder, with peritonitis. In both lateral cystotomy was performed, and both ended in perfect recovery. This is a practice worthy of imitation. I shall presently refer to the circumstances under which it might be deemed desirable to attempt to close an opening in the walls of the bladder, to prevent urine finding its way into the peritoneum. Extravasation of urine may occur either immediately after the injury, or secondarily, as we have noticed in gunshot injuries, about the time that the sloughs separate. In either instance, but more particularly in the latter, it is to be regarded as a most dangerous complication requiring bold and de- cisive action. In all cases of wound of the bladder, as long as urine escapes freely, either by the urethra or through the external wound, no anxiety need be entertained on this point. Should, however, the patient have a feel- ing of chilliness, or a rigor, with sudden diminution or cessation of the flow of urine, and perhaps redness and brawniness of some part of the skin adja- cent to the wound, there will be much ground for apprehension. A catheter should be at once introduced, either through the wound or along the urethra, by whichever means a flow of urine may be best secured and maintained. Should there be any external indication of extravasated urine, free incisions 1 Med. Communications of the Mass. Med. Society, vol. vii. 2 New York Med. Journal, vol. xvi. 1872.