1002 ORTHOPAEDIC SURGERY. that lie saw the necessity of modifying his plan of operating, and he gave, in a work published in 1828, this advice: “the tendon to be divided should not he exposed ; its section should be made by a detour, and not by an inci- sion parallel to that of the skin;” but the rule thus prescribed was never prac- tically carried out by Delpecli, so that although he first theoretically coun- selled subcutaneous tenotomy, it remained for Stromeyer to perform and intro- duce the operation. The great advance in the method of dividing tendons which Stromeyer devised, consisted in making the external wound a mere puncture ; Delpecli, in the rule above quoted, speaks of the wound made in the superficial tissues as an incision, so that although Stromeyer was no doubt to some extent assisted to the discovery he made by his predecessor’s theoretical advice, yet his evolution of subcutaneous tenotomy must have been chiefly the result of original thought. Dr. Little gives the following translation of Stro- meyer’s description of the operation of dividing the tendo Achillis d— The operation must invariably be effected by puncture without external incision. A small, moderately curved, sharp-pointed bistoury is adapted for most occasions. Tbe limb should be extended in order to produce the necessary projection of the tendon, when the instrument should be passed behind it, the point perforating the opposite skin ; division of the tense resisting tendon being effected rather by pressure of the edge than by its slow and cautious onward movement. The skin, being elastic, yields to tbe pressure of tbe knife, the two punctures not exceeding its width. I have frequently divided the tendo Achillis in this manner without producing a second puncture; but this is of little moment, as two minute punctures heal as quickly as a single one. The division of the tendon is known by an accompanying sound, which can scarcely be mistaken. The performance of the operation with the point of the instrument is less to be relied on, partly from its being too weak, and also because the operator can be less certain of not causing injury to other structures in the event of the patient not remaining quiet throughout the operation The attempt to commence extension directly after the operation, and the endeavor immediately to restore the limb to its natural position, which will very seldom succeed, and, as the case of Sartorius proves, can only be effected by great force, is neither necessary nor advis- able. The commencement of extension before cicatrization of the wound in the integu- ments is unadvisable even when possible, as it may produce inflammation and suppuration not confined to the vicinity of the wound ; it is unnecessary, inasmuch as the tension of the divided muscle is not restored during the gradual mechanical exten- sion applied subsequently to the healing of the wound, but occurs after the complete reunion of the tendon, and after the necessary motions of the limb during exercise have acted as a stimulus to its contractility Stromeyer’s operation, although at first received with some opposition, was soon established as a safe and reliable mode of treating club-foot. Dieffen- bach, of Berlin, adopted subcutaneous tenotomy with much enthusiasm, and the practice was also followed by Duval, Bouvier, and Guerin, of Paris, Scoutetten, of Strasbourg, and other continental surgeons. In England, section of the tendo Achillis was performed by the late Mr. Whipple, of Plymouth, in the year 1836, but he appears not to have repeated the operation, and the case resulted in nothing further than enabling this gentleman to lay claim to a priority of performance of the operation amongst his countrymen. With Dr. Little rests the honor of introducing subcutaneous tenotomy to his pro- fessional brethren in England ; Dr. Little himself, having the misfortune to suffer from deformity of "the foot, at once appreciated the value of Stromeyer’s method of treatment, and hastened to place himself under the eminent German’s care. Greatly benefited by the treatment, Dr. Little remained to study Stromeyer’s practice; on returning to England,in 1837, he laid before the profession the valuable results of his experience, and chiefly by his efforts was a special hospital for the practice of orthopaedic surgery established in London. 1 Treatise on the Nature of Club-Foot. London, 1839.