918 SCROPULO-TUBERCULOUS AND OTHER STRUCTURAL DISEASES OP BONES. which throw a most valuable light upon the whole subject of osseous patho- logy. “ I long since demonstrated,” says M. Ollier,1 “ that in childhood and adolescence, in other words, during the whole period of growth of the skeleton, the juxta-epiphyseal portions of the shafts of the long bones, that is to say, the terminal portions of their diaphyses, were most frequently the seat of the various acute or chronic inflammations, and, in general, of the different neo- plasias whatever their nature. The greater nutritive activity of these por- tions of bone, during all the period of formation, explains their proneness to become the seat of morbid processes. It is by the extremities of the diaphysis that the bone grows, it is here that occur transformation of the layer of car- tilage and development of osteoblasts, and finally the formation of the very vascular spongy tissue ; in this very vascular spongy tissue also is expended the force of blows, of exaggerated compressions, and of articular distentions, and in it tuberculous neoplasias are preferably manifested.” “These affections of the bones are usually, in children, the origin of affec- tions of the joints The invasion of the joint is dependent upon the relation of the synovial membrane to the juxta-epiphy seal region. In the shoulder, in the ankle, in the wrist, osteitis remains for a long time iso- lated ; but in the hip, whenever a centre of osteitis, tuberculous or otherwise, is developed in the neck of the femur, there is soon an invasion of the joint, for the neck, the upper extremity of the diaphysis, lies within the joint itself.” M. Ollier does not deny the formation of tuberculous centres in the epiphyses ; for he says : “ The epiphyses are themselves the seat of these centres of primary osseous inflammation, but less often than the juxta-epiphy seal portions of the diaphyses. Nutritive activity is much less pronounced in the epiphyses than in the corresponding parts of the diaphysis.” M. Ollier admits, with M. Volkmann, that' a large number of cases of arthritis are of osteopathic origin. But he believes that primary tuberculous synovitis is much more frequent in adults than is acknowledged by the eminent surgeon of Halle. The laws of growth apply equally to the flat and short bones. The parts bordering on their cartilages of growth are also the most exposed to tuber- culous or other spontaneous inflammations (calcaneum, ilium). In all the bones, the tuberculous affection may not produce an}T marked effects, or it may give rise to inflammation, to sessile or pedunculated abscesses, to peri- osteal hyperostoses, to more or less invaginated sequestra, to arthritis, etc. I ought to mention some peculiarities of certain bones. In the flat bones, tuberculous lesions have a tendency to assume an ulcerating character; the bones may even be completely perforated. (Lannelongue.) The iliac bone quite often shows these perforations. They are also seen in the cranium. Rilliet and Barthez have reported a series of cases of tubercle developed upon the vault of the cranium, upon the upper wall of the orbit, in the sphenoid, the ethmoid, the mastoid process, and finally in the petrous bone. Recently Volkmann2 has described a lesion of the vault of the cranium which he considers tuberculous, and designates by the name of 'perforating tubercu- losis of the vault of the cranium. He has seen it twelve times in the frontal or parietal bones. Limited to a single part of the cranium, never exceeding in extent the size of a franc piece, it is characterized by caseous degeneration followed by suppuration, by separation of the periosteum and of the dura mater, and by necrosis of the hone in its whole thickness. I question if these were not cases of syphilis rather than of tuberculosis. Kraske,3 on the other hand, has related two cases of Reid’s, where the tuberculous lesion of the cranium was multiple, and accompanied by tuberculous lesions in almost all 1 De la resection de la lianche (Revue de Chirurgie, Mai, 1881, p. 383). 2 Centralblatt f. Chir., 1880. No. 1. » Ibid., No. 19.