DIFFERENT CLINICAL FORMS OF SPONTANEOUS OSTEITIS. 875 is of positive in the published observations does not yet suffice to require the recognition of distinct varieties of osteitis.1 Bone-Inflammation due to the Presence of Parasitic Elements in the Periosteum and in the Osseous Tissue ; Actinomycosis.—In 1877, a German veterinarian, Bollinger, declared the parasitic nature of certain tumors of the jaw in cattle, which until then had been assigned to osteo-sareoma, or to chronic osteitis. Pie discovered in these tumors a peculiar fungus, with a characteristic shape, which Harz designated by the name “ Actinomyces bovis.” This fungus is made up of branch- ing filaments, club-shaped, resting Fig- 1431. on a pedicle of varying height, and presenting as a whole the appear- ance of an irregular umbel. Some time before Bollinger, two Italian observers, Perroncito and Rivolta, had discovered parasites in the osteo-sarcoma of cattle (from 1868 to 1873). Their observations re- mained incomplete, and failed to establish in a precise manner the relation between the parasite and the tumors in which they were found, but it was their observa- tions which first indicated the pre- sence of parasites in the sarcoma of cattle. In man, actinomycosis was first noted by Israel, of Berlin, and afterwards by Ponfick, of Breslau, and other observers (Fig. 1431). As early as 1845, however, Langenbeck had seen at Kiel, in a man who died of cachexia in consequence of vertebral caries, peculiar characteristics of the pus, which he could not at that time interpret as pertaining to a special disease, but which now appear to him to have belonged to actino- mycosis. This affection has not yet been observed in France. For myself, I have never seen it, and all that I shall say about it is only a resume of works published abroad upon the subject. Since the case of Israel, there have been published twenty-seven cases observed in man.2 But in the majority of these, the initial lesion was in the lungs and soft parts. These cases are of only secondary interest from our point of view ; some facts have been observed, however, which ought to be mentioned in connection with osteitis, because the presence of actinomy- Fungus of actinomycosis. On the left is seen the para- site in a state of complete development; on the right one of the terminal gonidia with a varicose appearance ; on the left, and below, filaments arranged in an umbel; on the right, and above^ an isolated filament with a dentated appearance. (After Ponfick.) 1 See Art. Syphilis, Vol. II., supra. 2 Bricon, De l’aetinomycose (Progres Medical, 1881).