801 OVARIAN CYSTS AND CYSTOMATA. is required to diagnosticate it from a supposed cyst in only an infinitesimal ratio of cases. But here a tumor or an enlargement from some morbid cause evidently exists. Is it a cyst? and, if a cyst, is it ovarian? These are the questions which must now be elucidated. The diagnosis from ascites has already been indicated. Here the abdomen is more generally enlarged and less globular when the patient is recumbent; percussion is usually clear in front and dull in the flanks; change of posture at once alters the area of dulness; the superficial veins are not much dis- tended; the umbilicus is protuberant; the womb is depressed or unaltered in position. Fecal tumor gives a doughy feeling on deep pressure, may be indented, and, unless enormously developed, may be traced along the transverse or descending colon; percussion is dull, there is no semblance of fluctuation, and a history of chronic constipation may generally be obtained. TJterme tumors are most frequently confounded with ovarian cysts by the general practitioner, and often form for the specialist the most difficult source of differentiation. But whether fibro-cyst, fibroma, sarcoma, or malignant tumor, the diagnosis can usually be reached by the following indications:— In all uterine tumors the abdominal swelling affects the lower segment chiefly; the womb is more or less distinctly movable with the tumor; the growth of the mass is slow; menstruation is markedly affected and generally in the direction of metrorrhagia; fluctuation is never present, except in the case of fibro-cysts, when it is felt obscurely and in certain regions of the mass only. The elasticity of soft and rapidly growing fibromata is, by careless examiners, sometimes mistaken for fluctuation; but a distinct wave of fluid is essentially different from this. For a more exact diagnosis, the differential signs may be stated succes- sively as follows :—- (1) In uterine fibro-cyst the patient is generally at middle age, this form of tumor rarely, if ever, occurring under thirty. Her history shows that the growth has been slow, often ten or twelve years in duration. The general health has not rapidly declined, although distention may be great and more or less metrorrhagia may have existed. The tumor is large, more irregular in outline than an ordinary cyst, obscurely fluctuating above, and harder below. Vaginal examination shows the womb to be dragged upward, the cervix generally lying behind the symphysis pubis. If a sound can be passed, which is not always practicable, the depth of the womb will be found increased to three and a half or four inches; and rotation of the uterus on the sound will be felt in the tumor, or abdominal movement of the tumor will be distinctly communicated to the sound. Aspiration obtains a clear or straw- colored fluid which coagulates spontaneously, and may show under the microscope the so-called “fibre-cell,” upon which Atlee and Drysdale have laid much stress. If the cyst be exhausted by aspiration, the top of the tumor collapses, while the lower part remains hard and semi-solid. Finally, as Hegar has advised, if the patient be etherized and the tumor rotated by an assistant, while the cervix uteri is drawn down with a tenaculum, careful rectal exploration will often reveal the connection of the tumor with the womb. These are the indications of a uterine fibro-cyst, and they will often guide the surgeon aright; but, sad to say, as often they are fallible. Fifteen years ago I published the statistics of all the cases then to be found in English, French, and German literature: in nineteen of these cases laparotomy had been performed; in all but one under the supposition that the cyst was ova- vol. vi.—51