INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE BLADDER AND PROSTATE. 348 this way, and repeated when necessary, often completely relieves the distress- ing symptoms of irritation. The use of these vesical pessaries has been extended to other cases where astringent applications to the bladder are indi- cated, and extended experience has shown the advantage, under certain cir- cumstances, of this mode of medicating the bladder. Fig. 1287. There is a variety of opinion with reference to the power of the bladder to absorb drugs introduced into it, as well as the constituents of the urine, in certain cases. That some special provision does exist to prevent the normal mucous membrane from absorbing readily, there can be no doubt. When, however, the lining membrane of the bladder becomes altered by dis- eased action going on in its interior, it then seems capable of absorbing not only drugs, but also certain products into which urine is resolved when it undergoes decomposition. In this way are explained cases of ammonsemia which have been recorded. It often happens that though the inflammation has been removed and the bladder cleansed, this long remains preternaturally sensitive and irritable. Where other means have failed to give relief under these circumstances, the application of hot water to the interior of the organ has been found of much service.1 Commencing at a temperature of 100° F., measured by the thermo- meter, increasing quantities of water are injected daily, and the temperature gradually raised, until, in some instances, 120° F. has been reached. Dr. R. F. Weir2 refers to the value of the hot douche in cases of this nature, and Mr. Guthrie3 also appears to have derived considerable advantage from its employment. it will be proper here to draw attention to a mode of treating cystitis which has been recently advocated by Mr. John Chiene,4 under the name of bladder-drainage. Its object is to keep the viscus unemployed as a reservoir, and so to give it complete rest for as long a period as may seem desirable. This is effected through siphon action by means of a catheter and piece of rubber tubing, which convey the urine, as it drops from the ureters, into a vessel beside the patient’s bed. Some excellent results have in this way been obtained, not only in chronic cystitis, but also in other urinary affections in which it is necessary to keep the bladder empty and the patient dry. It is another illustration of what John Hilton wrote of as the value of physio- logical rest. "(3) The third indication is to promote, by internal remedies, a healthy tone of the vesical mucous membrane. Amongst these remedies are two specially worthy of mention, namely, uva ursi and buchu, which are often of great value in this stage of the complaint. A formula of Dr. Gross’s will be found exceedingly useful. It consists of one ounce and a half of the leaves of the 1 Harrison, The Prevention of Stricture and of Prostatic Obstruction. London, 1881. 2 American Clinical Lectures (Seguin), vol. ii. No. 8. 3 On the Anatomy and Diseases of the Bladder. 4 Edinburgh Medical Journal, December, 1880.