568 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. Suppuration of the sac of a hydrocele rarely occurs, hut Mr. Dobson, of the "Bristol General Hospital, met with a case after simple tapping.1 Mr. Jessop,2 surgeon to the Leeds General Infirmary, has recorded several cases of sloughing of the scrotum after tapping for hydrocele. An out-patient aged 25 was tapped and sent Lome. Three days afterwards he said that he had had rigors, had lost his appetite, and was feverish. On admission, a gangrenous patch, the size of half-a-crown, was seen at the site of the puncture, and it was evident that the tunica vaginalis had suppurated ; the sloughing spread, the whole of the scrotum was lost, and both testicles were exposed. Eventually granulations formed which drew down the skin of the abdomen and covered the testicles. A second case, that of a man aged 71, was not so fortunate, as in spite of stimulants and a generous diet he died of exhaustion from gangrene of the whole anterior part of the scrotum. Sir A. Cooper states that he has known fatal cellulitis follow the injection of an irritating fluid into the cellular tissue instead of into the tunica vaginalis. Should such an accident happen, free incisions should be made. Baron Dupuytren was called upon to treat a case of this kind, in which the inflammation was very severe. M. Pelletan once saw tetanus ensue after the operation for hydrocele by injection. (6) Antiseptic incision has been strongly recommended of late years for the radical cure of hydrocele by Prof. Volkman,3 Prof. Lister,4 and Mr. Jacobson.5 It differs in its effect from the old operation of incision and the introduction of flour, lint, or other irritating substances, as it is unattended by any rise of temperature or constitutional disturbance, being free from suppuration. An ansesthetic having been given, the pubes and scrotum, which have already been shaved, are well washed with carbolic-acid lotion (1-20) or some other suitable antiseptic. The penis is also to be carefully washed. Several carbol- ized silk threads may be introduced through the skin and tunica vaginalis from side to side, and at some little distance apart, at the lower and front part of the swelling. An incision two inches long is then made over the threads, down to the tunica vaginalis, which is not opened until all bleeding vessels have been tied with fine carbolized catgut.6 Having incised the tunica vagi- nalis for two inches, the silk threads are hooked out, and the surgeon then examines the interior of the sac to ascertain the condition of the testicle and the presence or absence of cysts or loose bodies, washes it out with the carbolic-acid solution, stitches the cut edges of the tunica vaginalis to those of the integument by means of the silk sutures already mentioned, and introduces a suitable drainage tube. If the sac be sclerosed, a small portipn of it may be removed. The operation is to be done under the spray, but the wound may be dressed with any reliable antiseptic dressing. As carbolic acid is at times apt to produce local or general disturbance, eucalyptus gauze may be used, the first piece applied over the strip of protective having been dipped in the carbolic-acid lotion (1-20). The pleasant fragrance of the eucalyptus dressing shows that it is properly charged with the drug.7 The penis is to be drawn through a hole cut in the middle of the dressing and its water-proof covering, taking care to stuff well the cleft between the thigh and the scrotum. The dressings are best kept in place by a double spica and a roller going in a figure-of-eight form between the upper parts of the 1 British Med. Journ., vol. ii. p. 43. 1872. 2 Ibid., 1871. 3 Berlin, klin. Woch., No. 3, 1876. 4 Reported by Mr. J Pollard (Brit. Med. Journ., June 25, 1881). 6 Lancet, Sept. 1, 1877. 6 Instead of cutting or. the silk threads, two long threaded needles may be used, not being drawn through until the incision has been made on them. 7 The sublimate gauze, but recently introduced to the notice of the profession by Sir J. Lister, is also a soft and comfortable dressing.