512 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE URETHRA. urethra. It is especially in fistulee exempt from complications, and situated in the scrotum, that this fibrous cord is easily perceptible. Although in the immense majority of cases the diagnosis of perineo-scrotal urethral fistula may be established from the nature of the functional troubles, and after a simple external exploration, it is necessary, either to complete the diagnosis or to throw light upon obscure cases, to have recourse to catheterization of the fistula, combined with that of the urethra. A flexi- ble probe is introduced into the sinus, at the same time that a metallic sound is placed in the urethra. It is always necessary to proceed with great gentleness in the catheterization of the sinus. This mode of exploration usually makes it possible to discover the direct communication between the urethra and the fistulous track, and furnishes valuable information in regard to the direction, the length, and the dimensions of the track, and the exis- tence of diverticula or foreign bodies. [Nevertheless, it must be said that in a certain number of cases, by reason of the tortuosity of the fistulous canal, it is not possible to pass through its whole length, and to succeed in touching the sound introduced into the urethra. If, in such a case, the communica- tion remained uncertain, and was not sufficiently established by the nature of the functional disturbances, recourse could be had to injections practised with colored liquids, either into the urethra, or, better, into the fistulous track ; the return of the liquid by the fistula or by the urethra would remove all doubt. After what I have just said, I will not dwell upon the differential diag- nosis of perineo-scrotal urethral fistulee, which could only be confounded with vesico-perineal fistulee or with rectal fistulee, or with sinuses dependent on caries or necrosis of the bones of the pelvis. The manner of escape of the urine makes it possible to make a diagnosis between urethro-perineal fistulee and vesico-perineal fistulee ; it is intermittent in the first case and continuous in the second. As to the differential diagnosis between urethral fistulee and rectal fistulee or bone-sinuses, it can in general be easily arrived at by studying the history of the case and the nature of the liquids which flow from the cutaneous orifices, and finally by direct exploration. Prognosis.—In the prognosis of urethro-perineo-scrotal fistula, it is neces- sary to take into account the fistula itself, and the cause which has produced it. [Now, usually the fistula aggravates the already serious prognosis of the initial disease, which is most commonly a stricture, and this aggravation is a result of the formation of new abscesses in the scrotum and perineum, of the possible appearance of urinary infiltration, of erythema of the skin which surrounds the fistula, and finally of the numberless annoyances which are brought about by the escape exteriorly of pus and urine which soil the cloth- ing of the patient. "From another point of view, although perineo-scrotal urethral fistulee, free from complications, are generally easier to cure than urethro-penile fistulee, nevertheless this relatively favorable prognosis is far from being applicable to all cases, and in practice there are seen a large number of complicated perineo-scrotal urethral fistulee the cure of which is very difficult to obtain, and the treatment of which demands grave operations. Treatment.—A certain number of perineo-scrotal urethral fistulee heal spontaneously, as soon as it is possible to effect the disappearance of the causes which have given rise to them ; others require the employment of special measures directed against the fistulee themselves. It may be said, then, that the first indication in the treatment of these fistulee, consists in restoring to the urethral canal its calibre, its suppleness, its normal qualities. Then, as strictures are the usual cause of these fistulee, it is against them that therapeutic measures should at first be directed. In the absence of