THE CAESAREAN SECTION AND ITS SUBSTITUTES. 770 and in attempting to perforate it transfixed the rectum in three places ; the Caesarean operation proving fatal in six days, an autopsy revealed this prior fatal injury.1 In a third case, a fibroid tumor was thought to be a foetal head, and the pregnancy to be an extra-uterine one, whence long and fatal delay in calling in an operator to afford relief. Such cases'and numerous others are counted as fatal results of the Caesarean section. Again, about one in five of the operations have been performed upon rachitic dwarfs, the worst of all subjects to recover after delay, as they rapidly become exhausted, do not rally after the operation, cannot bear much loss of blood, and have very little stamina at best. Such cases should be operated upon as soon as possible, as it is fatal to waste time in attempting craniotomy or version, and as delay itself is fatal even when nothing is done. What is most wanted for greater success in the operation is better knowledge on the part of the accoucheurs who attend the poorest classes in our large cities, among which the pelvic deformities which make Caesarean section obligatory are usually found. When called in they ought at once to determine the state of the pelvis, and, if not ample, to send for an experienced consultant without delay. The fact that but seven dwarfs out of twenty-six have been saved in this country,2 and that three-fourths of these were operated upon late, shows the importance of better knowledge and more prompt action upon the part of those first called in to such patients when in labor. It will be of little avail to introduce improved systems of operating, unless there is also an improvement in select- ing a proper time for the operation; if this be made elective and not the last resort, there will be a diminished fatality in the future. The Porro-Caesarean Section—Laparo-hystero-oophorectomy. “ Utero-ovarian amputation as completive of the Caesarean operation,” was the title originally given by Prof. Edoardo Porro, late of the University of Pavia and now of the Obstetrical School of Milan, to the modification of the old Caesarean section which has been designed by him for lessening its mortality, by converting the internal uterine wound, with its tendency to gape and discharge septic matters into the abdominal cavity, into one dressed and discharging without the peritoneal cavity. History.—This operation, in its main feature, existed as a theoretical improvement for one hundred and eight years before it was finally tested upon the human female. During this long period of probation, several experimenters, who nearly all appear to have acted independently of each other, came to the same conclusion, after testing their theory upon the lower animals, which was, that this might prove less dangerous to the parturient woman than the old method. To Dr. Joseph Cavallini, Surgeon-in-Chief of the Santa Maria Xuova Hospital of Florence, who published an account of his experiments in 1768, is due the credit of having first thought of the method which now bears the name of Porro, with the exception that his idea con- templated a complete hysterectomy, instead of an amputation of the cervix. He was led by the celebrated Antonio Cocchi to try a series of experiments upon dogs and sheep, to determine the danger of extirpating the uterus, with a view of employing it as a means of curing cancer of that organ. His monograph, published in Florence in 1768, was entitled “ Tentarnina medico- chirurgica de felici in quibusdam animantibus uteri extradione.” Having suc- cessfully removed, from a bitch, the uterus, which contained nine pups, he wrote 1 Med. and Surg. Reporter, p. 375. 1869. 2 Med. News, p. 258. 1885.