INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS OF TIIE BONES. 890 necting cartilages with a surgical object; that is to say, to correct defor- mities due to inequality of growth in parallel bones.1 On the other hand, I have indicated the means of increasing in man the normal growth of bones, by Fig. 1436. Arrest of development of ulna as the result of juxta-epiphyseal osteitis. The radius having continued to grow is curved upon itself. (After Poncet.) permanent irritation of the diaphysis during the period of growth of the skeleton. Antiseptic methods will make it possible in future to have recourse without danger to these operations for the correction of deformities, which were formerly dangerous on account of the intra-medullary suppuration which they might produce when more than the superficial layers of the bone were implicated. I have already spoken of the relation of osteitis to the seat of election for growth in the large bones of the limbs. I ought, before going further, to speak of this more fully, and to show that it is applicable to all the bones, whatever may be their shape. In all the flat bones, it is the juxta-epiphyseal regions, that is to say, the edges supplied with epiphyses, that are most exposed to osteitis. The pelvis and the scapula frequently present a demonstration of this law. Osteitis of the pelvis, which is so common during the period of growth of the skeleton, is seen especially at the time of puberty and at the end of the period of growth, as Gouilloud2 has shown by numerous examples. In the calcaneum, the posterior extremity of the diaphysis, that which is connected with the epiphysis, is also the most common seat of acute osteitis during the period of growth. The anterior extremities of the ribs, near the cartilages, are subject to the same law. If osteitis of the long bones sometimes produces displacements of the diaphysis by the mechanism indicated above, it likewise gives rise to frac- tures produced by muscular effort, or in consequence of slight traumatism, in the portion of bone which has lost its firmness under the influence of ' Revue Meusuelle de Medecine et de Chirurgie. 1877. 2 Des osteites du bassin. These de Lyon, 1883.