INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE FEMALE GENITALS. 726 of these disorders, erosion, a condition observed possibly upon both lips of the womb just external to the os uteri—if restricted to one, it is almost in- variably the posterior which is affected—there is a bright-red, slightly rough- ened surface which is in marked contrast with the smooth, lighter-colored, normal mucous membrane of the cervix. This condition should be no longer regarded as a simple epiphenomenon of parenchymatous metritis, but as the result of the injurious action of a discharge from the cervical canal, causing desquamation of superficial epithelium; hence the posterior lip is more frequently than the anterior the seat of this supposed ulceration, or, if both are affected, the manifestation is more decided upon the former. This condition has been aptly compared to the red, inflamed state of a part of the upper lip of a child, suffering with coryza, the discharge from the nose in that case producing the irritation. In the second form of ulcera- tion, there is apparently papillary hypertrophy which reaches its highest development in the third. The presence of varicose veins is an accidental complication, which gives its name to the fourth variety of cervical ulcera- tion. But this is not all. There will be.observed in many cases of ulceration of the cervix, glandular structures, the glands being so enlarged as to form notable tumors containing liquid contents, the so-called ovula Nabothi. As there are no glands in the external mucous membrane of the cervix, these manifestations can only come from eversion of the internal cervical mem- brane where glands are remarkably abundant. Such eversion may occur when the cervix has suffered from no traumatism—in the virgin, for ex- ample.—but it is especially liable to follow an unhealed tear of the cervix caused by abortion or labor, and a consequent catarrhal inflammation of the cervical canal, or even of the uterus as well. Taking this view of the pathology of ulcers of the cervix, the plan of treatment is comparatively simple, and quite obvious. Remove the inflam- mation, and thus the cause of the disease. In slighter cases of erosion, by applications of a weak solution of nitrate of silver, of tannin and glycerine, or of some other astringent, we can in many cases stop the oozing from the raw surface, cause it to heal over, and, for a time at. least, make the patient very much better. But as long as the source of the mischief remains, recurrence is almost certain, and, therefore, the catarrh of the cervix and body of the uterus must be treated in order to insure the permanency of the cure. Uterine congestion must be lessened by hot-water injections, by the intro- duction into the vagina of tampons of cotton saturated with glycerine, and by putting the uterus, if displaced, in a normal position ; constipation must be prevented, and the general course of life so controlled that suitable hygie- nic rules shall be observed, while tonics, vegetable or mineral, may be admin- istered as the individual case may require ; it is possible that ergot and nux vomica may contribute somewhat to lessening uterine byperaemia; espe- cially let care be given to securing normal menstruation. Some are content with this treatment, and reject all applications to the cavity of the neck or of the body of the womb. Probably this is too great a reaction from the excess and violence of the local treatment of the uterus which was in vogue a few years ago. Many cases will be benefited by dilatation of the cervical canal—this dilatation being effected, not by bladed instruments, but by bodies which will press uniformly upon hypertrophied tissue, and thus stimulate absorption—and after this by the occasional application of either Churchill’s iodine or iodine in its nascent state. When the discharge from the uterus persists, and especially when it is thin rather than thick and tenacious, similar applications to the endometrium will