PREPARATION OF MILITARY SURGEONS FOR FIELD DUTIES. 1133 The foregoing general remarks and considerations will, it is hoped, enable the reader to better understand the account that will now be given of the specific duties which devolve upon each grade of medical officers in an army in the field. In 1864, Surgeon T. A. McParlin, U. S. A., then the medical Fig. 1535. Autenreith medicine-wagon. director of the Army of the Potomac, caused to be drawn up a detailed account of the duties of each class of medical officers in that army. These accounts were written by experienced men then actually engaged in the performance of the duties referred to. They are of the very highest value, a value indeed that will be appreciated only by those who know through what labor and suffering the medical department of the army was developed to the great excellence that it had attained at the time that these papers were written. The profession and the army are indebted to the wise forethought of Surgeon (now Brevet Brigadier-General) McParlin for them, and it is a subject of congratulation that they can in this place be given a wider circulation among the surgeons of to-day, and be more accessible in the future. They are here reprinted from the “Medical and Surgical History of the War of the Rebel- lion,” Part Third, Surgical Volume, pp. 903-914. The writers belonged to in 1849, and in tlie same year entered the U. S. Army as Assistant-Surgeon. In June, 1862, whilst still in this grade with only the rank of captain, he was made medical director of the Army of the Potomac, and joined it immediately after its repulse from before Richmond. The army had sustained great losses in men and material. The measures that he speedily adopted for the better organization and reequipment of its medical department were attended with great success. His ambulance system was adopted by Congress ; his plan of field hospitals was adopted by the Surgeon-General for all the U. S. Armies, and continued to be used until the end of the war, and its originality and excellence have been freely admitted by the highest military authori- ties in Europe. He enjoyed the entire confidence of every Commander of the Army of the Poto- mac. He resigned from the army in December, 1864, and died in San Francisco, California, in March, 1872. For a further account of his services the reader may consult a “ Memoir” of his life in the “Journal of the Military Service Institution of the U. S.,” for September, 1883, and his own work, “ Medical Recollections of the Army of the Potomac.”