CHOICE OF OPERATION. 213 beyond middle life, for they may be present without any especial distin- guishing signs, the urine having only those qualities that belong to the urine of chronic cystitis. When, therefore, chronic pyelitis is present, what is to he done? Such a complication does not absolutely contraindicate an operation upon the blad- der, but it calls for special care in the preparation of the patient, and in the conduct of the operation. These are the cases which furnish the bad attacks of urinary fever after operation, and that desperately fatal sequence known as surgical kidney. Fortunately, however, all cases of chronic pyelitis do not yield serious complications after an operation upon the bladder. I believe that the following case is conclusive in bearing out this statement:—- A gentleman of 57, with vesical calculus, was brought from Massachusetts by Dr. Paddock, of Pittsfield, to Dr. Van Buren and myself. I operated upon him Dec. 11, 1878, by litholapaxy, removing two and a half drachms of stone, phosphatic about a uric-acid nucleus. No chill, no accident whatsoever marred a prompt recovery, and the patient returned home after a few days. He came back in tlmee months for confirma- tion of his cure, and a search proved the bladder to be empty. He continued, however, to have occasional attacks of vesical irritability, with pain in the side, especially after exertion, and to pass a little pus with bis urine; for he had vesical atony and eight ounces of residual urine which he could only void through a catheter; but his general condition was excellent, he took long walks over the hills, trout-fishing, and was de- lighted with the result of his operation, although he was never quite well. On Dec. 8, 1880, three years after the operation, he died. Dr. Paddock wrote . . . “ He seemed in his usual health until the evening of Dec. 1, when he had an attack of renal colic. The pain was relieved in a few hours by an anodyne powder. He had a severe chill on the morning of Dec. 3, followed by pain in the back, with scanty urine containing blood, rapid and weak pulse, quick respiration, and gradually increasing cere- bral symptoms. He died comatose on the afternoon of Dec. 8. At the autopsy, the right kidney was found entirely degenerated, one-half of the capsule being occupied by a cyst containing an ounce and a half of fluid, the other half by simply fibrous tissue. The left kidney was double the natural size, intensely congested, its surface covered with ecchy- motic spots, some of them as large as a nickel cent, the pelvis and tubules distended with bloody urine, and the upper end of the ureter plugged with a mulberry calculus.” The bladder was dilated, with thinned walls. It contained no stone, and the prostate was not eidarged. This case is very instructive. There were at the time of the operation vesical atony, eight ounces of residual urine, vesical catarrh, and phosphatic stone—yet three years afterwards, tit the autopsy, the prostate was not found to be hypertrophied. Hence it is plain that the vesical symptoms were reflex in origin, and due to disease above, undoubtedly to the degeneration of the right kidney. Ho accident attended the operation, and the patient did well until a new stone of oxalate of lime formed in his left kidney ; this stone, by plugging the only remaining duct for urinary excretion, promptly terminated his life. Although kidney disease be detected, still an operation may be undertaken. Of the three methods, a choice may fairly be made in favor of litholapaxy, unless there is something in the condition of the bladder, pros- tate, urethra, or stone, to call for lithotomy. The objections to old-fashioned lithotrity are the necessary number of sit- tings, each one of which involves a separate risk, and the especial danger of exciting acute cystitis by the large, sharp fragments left after the first sitting. The well-known fatality of lithotomy in late life, is probably largely due to the renal complications which so often attend chronic cystitis at that period. The morbid conditions of the bladder and prostate which influence a choice of the radical operation for stone, are chronic cystitis and tumors of the bladder and prostate. Acute cystitis need not be considered. Although one of the