539 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE PENIS. prepuce has been drawn so far forward that a circle of skin has been removed from the body of the penis; it is then necessary to slit up the mucous mem- brane and stitch it to the skin which remains. If too little of the foreskin be taken away, it will contract on cicatrizing ; enough must he removed to uncover the glans. The end of the glans penis may be cut if the operation is done without a clamp. Some surgeons circumcise by slitting up the foreskin on a director, then seizing the angles and trimming off the rest of the prepuce. When the parts are very oedematous, care must be taken not to pass the director into the urethra, but under the upper part of the prepuce, where it is made to project. A sharp-pointed may be converted into a blunt-pointed bistoury by placing on its point a small piece of beeswax, which will be left behind when the point of the knife is thrust through the tissues. Professor Humphry1 removes the entire foreskin in cases of congenital phimosis. A circular incision is made through the skin on a level with the corona glandis, and the prepuce, having been slit up, is removed with scissors just in front of its attachment to the base of the glans. The cut edges of skin and mucous membrane are sewn together, but no dressings of any kind are- employed ; the patient is kept in bed, and if suppuration comeson a poultice or water-dressing is applied. The fraenum ought to be divided when it is abnormally short, and also if it is the seat of a small chancroid, which is apt to ulcerate into the artery of the part, and cause bleeding at an inconvenient time. Mr. Howse also advocates removal of the fraenum when performing circumcision, to prevent the oedema and chronic swelling which sometimes follow. Silver-wire sutures are not as readily manipulated as those of silk or catgut, and are more apt to catch in the dressings. The serre-fines of Vidal,, which are used in France, are as painful and not as secure as stitches. The contra-indications to operative interference are few: cases of hemor- rhagic tendency had better be let alone, or, if necessary, the part may be removed slowly with the galvanic ecraseur. An operation should not be- recommended unless the patient were in a good state of health, free from albuminuria or diabetes, and with healthy surroundings. Paraphimosis is the condition brought about when a tight or contracted foreskin is drawn above the glans penis, and when, owing to the rapid swell- ing of the glans and prepuce, the patient is unable to draw the latter down again. If seen at once, reduction can be readily effected, but if neglected,, the swelling increases and is attended with much pain. On examination, the- glans penis is found to be swollen and red; the foreskin is very oedematous,. and forms a collar around the glans, on depressing which the tight foreskin, may be seen in the sulcus between the oedematous collar and a second one formed by the swollen tissues which cover the body of the penis. Treatment.—The parts may, as a rule, with a little force and perseverance on the part of the surgeon, and stoicism on the part of the patient, be reduced to their natural condition. First oil the parts in front of the constriction, then wrap around them a piece of lint and pass the two forefingers above, and the two middle fingers below the penis, embracing it tightly; the two thumbs then press forcibly on the glans penis so as to reduce its bulk by pressing out the blood, and at the same time the fingers are drawn forcibly forwards, when, after a few minutes, the glans will recede and the foreskin advance to its proper place. When the parts are oedematous, reduction will be facili- tated by puncturing the tissues with a needle and bathing them with hot water. Ice may also be used to reduce the volume of the swelling. Another mode of reduction (Mauriac’s) is to grasp the penis with the left 1 Holmes’s System of Surgery, 2d edit., vol. v. p. 179.