549 AFFECTIONS OF THE SCROTUM. cavity having been made for its reception in the scrotum, which was brought over the gland with harelip pins after the edges of the opening had been pared. Pneumatocele of the Scrotum.—If the swelling be caused artificially by the introduction of air for the purpose of deception, there will be the crepi- tation which is so characteristic of surgical emphysema. Syphilitic Induration.—In some cases of tertiary sores on the genitals, there is thickening of the scrotum and penis, which yields to constitutional and suitable local treatment. Elephantiasis of the scrotum is met with in two forms : The first variety is due to hypertrophy of the tissues, hut in the second kind the lymphatics and lymph spaces play the more prominent part, and to this the name of “ lymph-varix” has been applied by Dr. Carter, that of “ naevoid ■elephantiasis” by Sir Joseph Fayrer, and that of “ lymph-scrotum” by Dr. Manson. The following cases are reported by Sir Joseph Fayrer:—1 A native of India, aged 25, presented a tumor which was of three years’ growth, and which had been associated with attacks of fever, once or twice a month, attended by a copious secretion of lymph which was discharged freely when the skin was removed by scratching. The tumor was of the ntevoid variety and weighed eleven ounces. An Indian, aged 30, suffered from the ordinary or firm hypertrophy of the scrotum, the tumor weighing 3^ pounds and being of two years’ growth. Both patients recovered rapidly after operations performed bloodlessly. No filariae were discovered. Elephantiasis is non-contagious; it is endemic in intertropical localities near the sea-coast, where malarial diseases are prevalent, its geographical dis- tribution being coincident with that of the mosquito (Manson). It is met with in different members of the same family, and is common between the ages of twenty and forty, but rare in infancy and old age. No race exposed to its predisposing causes is exempt, and it attacks men three and a half times as often as women, and dark more often than fair races. An attack of scrotal elephantiasis is ushered in by severe constitutional and local symptoms: the temperature is exalted; there is intense pain in the lumbar region, in the groin, and in the testes, which become swollen ; the swelling of the spermatic cords dilates the inguinal canals, predisposing to the liernire which are often met with in these cases. Hydroceles form, often of a large size. The sur- face of the integument becomes inflamed, and if the secretion of lymph be excessive, it exudes treely; at other times there is a temporary herpetic ■condition attended with an acrid and offensive serous exudation. The attacks of fever recur, and are attended with exudation, which leaves the parts enlarged after each attack. When these have attained a large size the febrile disturbance is lessened, and the patient, as a rule, enjoys fair health in the intervals between the attacks; hut sometimes the malarious influences to which he is exposed give rise to diseases of the liver or spleen, which, combined with the pain and inconvenience of the local malady, debilitate the patient to the last degree. The appearances presented by the disease are characteristic: the tissues of the scrotum are very heavy and much thickened, and in a rugose condition. When the skin of the penis is affected that organ becomes much enlarged; at other times it disappears within the mass,"its position being marked by a depression like an umbilicus. Owing to the local conditions and the debility caused by the disease, the patient’s procreative power is in abey- ance, but is restored after the removal of the mass. The tumors vary in 1 Tropical Dysentery, etc. London, 1881; Trans. Path. Soc. Lond., vol. xxx. 1879.