289 LITHOTOMY. It is a different thing, in laparotomy, to turn the two peritoneal surfaces covering the bladder in upon each other and suture them effectively. This is constantly done. I know of a case in which a distinguished surgeon, having opened the abdomen in a woman for another purpose, came upon something- lying in the pelvis. He was uncertain whether this something was the bladder or not, and, to decide the point, deliberately cut into the" suspected tissue, and thus proved that it was the bladder. He immediately turned in the serous surfaces, and sutured them nicely ; no evil result followed. T. Of. Thomas,1 of Hew York, in one instance, having opened the female bladder in an exploratory way for diagnostic purposes, sewed the incision into the abdominal wound with silver sutures, leaving a catheter in the bladder through the urethra; cure followed. The healthy bladder easily unites through its peritoneal coat, if this he wounded; but not so easily the soft, friable, unhealthy bladder, not covered by peritoneum at the point incised. Trendelenburg says2 that there can hardly be cited a case of vesical suture where, after a short time, urine has not flowed in part or wholly through the wound. The recent thesis of Garcin3 is instructive on this point. He deals with the 94 cases of supra-pubic operation published during the years 1879-83, and says that of 20 cases of vesical suture “ there were only two cases in which union by first intention occurred.” Again, out of the 94 cases, there were seven in which death occurred by urinary infiltration, and “five times this accident followed vesical suture.” In one of Monod’s cases, in a man4 of 63, suture was employed and a catheter left, a demeure, in the urethra. A small sinus only remained unhealed in the abdominal incision. This was afterwards injected with tincture of iodine to secure its closure, but fatal erysipelas fol- lowed. Juillard5 made an accidental rent five inches long in the bladder while attempting to separate adhesions in ovariotomy. He turned in the serous surfaces, not transfixing the mucous membrane with his sutures of catgut, fifteen in number, left a catheter in the urethra, and obtained union throughout the wound. Duchastelet, one of Guyon’s pupils, has proposed to go so far as to open the bladder always upon its peritoneal surface for the extraction of stone, in order to get a tougher texture and a serous surface to act upon by sutures in the effort to obtain union. Villeneuve rather inclines to join in this proposition as a possible future advance for the high operation. Upon the subject of preliminary vesical distention, as a step in the opera- tion, something must be said. The idea is a very old one. The bladder has been allowed to become distended by urine, the penis being ligated for a variable, sometimes a very long, time (even two days) before the operation. Air has been used as the distending agent, and water, pure or containino- various substances—boracic acid, carbolic acid, etc. But the bladder has been ruptured by even moderate distention in some cases. Monod6 in one case fissured the bladder of a patient of 28 by inject- ing water—the quantity unknown—and the conclusion was reached in the discussion at the Paris Surgical Society that it was not safe to inject too much fluid, the limit being 350 grammes, a little more than eleven ounces. Petersen allows 600 grammes as the limit, 200 being the least amount. Monod’s patient recovered in spite of the accident, but in a case in which Verneuil ruptured a man’s bladder by injecting only 125 grammes of water, 1 Stein, Med. Record, March 17, 1883, p. 286. 2 Berliner klinische Wochenschrift, 1881. 3 Contribution clinique k l’etude de la cystotomie sus-pubienne, avec statistique comprenant les annees 1879-1883. Strasbourg, 1884. 4 Bull, de la Soc. de Cliir., 5 Decembre, 1881, p. 758. 6 Centralblatt fiir Gynakologie, 7 Juli, 1883. 6 Rev. de Chirurgie, No. 4, 10 Mars, 1882, p. 296. VOL. VI.—19