OVARIAN AND UTERINE TUMORS. 832 nally suggested by Sir Spencer Wells; the trocar is thrust into the most avail- able point of the cyst; and the contents are emptied through the canula into a common washtub under the operating table. As the fluid pours out, an assistant steadies the abdominal walls with gradually increasing lateral pres- sure ; and, as soon the cyst grows flaccid, the operator inserts a large tenacu- lum or hook just beyond the canula, and, with this or with Nelaton’s sac- forceps, makes enough traction to cause it to bulge or protrude from the wound. Either now, or previously if there has been evident need, the ex- ternal wound is enlarged a full inch upwards and downwards: this is best and most quickly done with stout scissors upon two fingers of the left hand as a guide, and, if new vessels bleed, compression-forceps are again supplied. The sac being now moderately drawn out, the canula is removed, and a free incision is made with scissors through the protruding part. In this way it is emptied far more expeditiously ; or, if the flow ceases while the mass of the cyst remains imprisoned within the abdomen, the right hand is to be passed gently into the cyst-cavity, and, if secondary cysts be felt, they are broken down and their contents rapidly discharged. All this time the most watchful care is needed to prevent any of the fluid from escaping into the peri- toneal cavity, which it will surely do unless the operator be intelligently aided by the assistant who is keeping up abdominal pressure. As l)r. Thomas urges, it is most important to abstain from passing the hand into the peri- toneal cavity during this or the following stage of the operation, both because septic matter is often thus conveyed to the peritoneum, and because the manipulation of the sac can as easily be effected from its interior. If, instead of thin fluid, the sac-contents prove to be a colloid piaterial, this is to be gently scooped out with the hand inside the sac, while the extremities of the incision are held on the stretch by the large tenaculum-hooks. (3) Extraction of the sac is now effected, either easily or with much com- plicated difficulty, in accordance with the number and character of the adhe- sions. If these be few or trifling in character, simple traction with the Aelaton forceps suffices to overcome them; two pairs of forceps are used, and their successive application soon delivers the entire sac through the abdomi- nal wound and brings the pedicle into view. Even dense and rather vascular adhesions are best separated in this manner. But if the base of the tumor be extremely adherent to the pelvic walls or the uterus, or if intimate intes- tinal adhesions exist, this will not answer. In the latter case, patient separa- tion must be effected with the edge and handle of the scalpel, checking all bleeding points by torsion or catgut ligature; in the former, an effort must be made to “enucleate” the cyst, as suggested by Miner,1 of Buffalo. This means to split or separate the layers of the cyst so effectually as to isolate and remove the tumor, while leaving the outer layer, with the bloodvessels that cover its surface. Where there is no pedicle, this method is sometimes applicable. (4) The pedicle being now exposed, we have to choose between three methods of dealing with it: the ligature, the clamp, and the cautery. In this country the cautery is rarely used, although with it as a constant reliance, Dr. Keith, of Edinburgh, has obtained the best results thus far re- corded in the practice of ovariotomy. Either Paquelin’s or the actual cau- tery may be used, and with one of these at a dull red-heat, the pedicle is to be slowly burned through on an ivory or iron cautery-shield. After this the surface of the pedicle is again cleansed, rubbed with persulphate or per- chloride of iron, gently wiped off, and cautiously returned to the cavity of the pelvis. 1 Buffalo Med. and Surg. Journal, June, 1869.