SOLID TUMORS OF THE TESTIS. 629 •cartilaginous testicle. It resembles the section of a lobulated cartilaginous tumor, consisting of several small, round portions of firm, compact, trans- parent, opaline cartilage, which are united by thin partitions of fibro-cellular tissue. The cartilage is of the hyaline variety, and is encapsuled.1 The nodules of cartilage are developed in the interstitial connective tissue, and by their pressure cause an invagination of the walls of the tubes, according to the observations of Billroth ;2 and according to Waldeyer they encroach on the cavities of the veins. In the same manner the lymphatic spaces, which are so numerous, may be invaded, or they may be the starting-point of the growth. Billroth has described a distinct layer of cells which separates the cartilaginous process from the wall of the containing canal. Sir James Paget3 considers that the cartilaginous masses are formed in the cavity of the canals, and has carefully recorded a case which clearly showed that the car- tilage-cells invaded the lymphatic system, and were carried into the circula- tion. Tortuous, cylindriform, and knotted pieces of cartilage, closely packed and imbedded in a tough connective tissue, had invaded the testicle, and were covered in places by a layer of seminal tubes. The deposit of cartilage Fig. 1376. Section of an enchondromatons testicle: throughout the section are scattered rounded masses of cartilage; •about half a dozen cysts are to be seen ; the lower third of the tumor is made up of a sarcomatous mass, which contains a few uodules of cartilage and a few cysts. extended along the spermatic cord in a beaded manner, and was conducted through an enlarged lymphatic gland to the inferior vena cava, into the cavity of which it projected. Both lungs were stuffed with cartilage, and weighed over eleven pounds. Paget infers that the deposit was at first local 1 Paget, Lectures on Surgical Pathology, vol. ii. p. 209. * Medico-Chirurgical Trans., vol. xxxviii. p. 247. 2 Virchow’s Archiv, Bd. xiii.