305 EXPLORATION OF THE BLADDER. wards brought into the operating theatre several times, and examined by myself, and also by the late Dr. Munro, the senior surgeon, whose surgical experience was perhaps not exceeded on this continent. We examined the patient when sitting, standing, and lying, and when prone and supine, with instruments of every degree of curvature, but the desired “ click” was neither heard nor felt. Three weeks elapsed in this way when, examining him in bed, 1 caused him to kneel and bend forward upon his hands, when the characteristic click was elicited. The stone was lying below, and in front of the prostate. ' I turned it back with the short curved sound, and with Civiale’s lithotrite seized it, and in six sittings reduced it to fragments. The stone was of uric acid, and the debris weighed more than an ounce and a half. Sometimes an interposed membrane effectually prevents the recognition of stone. Scattered through the literature of the subject the details of numer- ous such cases are met with. When, however, many pouches are said to have existed in the same patient, each one hiding a stone and no part of the surface of the calculus being uncovered, I am inclined to think that possibly the instrument used may not have possessed the proper curve. If, on the one hand, calculi may sometimes exist in the bladder and yet defy detection, there are, on the other hand, certain conditions of the urinary apparatus which give rise to the belief that calculi are present when they are not. There is scarcely a surgeon who has not felt the instrument striking against what he has erroneously considered to be a stone ; and numerous have been the operations for the removal of stone where no stone existed. I shall mention these sources of error in the order of their frequence: (1) an uneven, irregular condition of the lining membrane of the bladder; (2) the folding of that membrane; (3) its roughened condition, as if sanded ; (4) without any morbid condition of the bladder, the sudden jolting movement often experienced in turning the point of the sound quickly from the middle line to either right or left; (5) polypoid, fibrous, or scirrhous masses, attached or free in any part of the bladder; (6) bony or other tumors of the pubis, sac- rum, or ischium ; (7) the striking of the handle of the instrument against a button on the patient’s or surgeon’s clothing; (8) indurated feces in the rectum ; and (9) in females, a misplaced uterus or ovary. These, and other sources of error, are sufficiently numerous to make it desirable not to be satisfied with once striking the calculus. A second and a third touch are advisable. A distinguished Canadian surgeon, now dead, once fancied that lie detected stone in the bladder of a young child who presented the usual signs of calculus. Lithotomy was decided upon. Of those present at the operation a select few felt the click ; the others politely heard it ; but when the bladder was cut into no stone was found. Fortunately for the surgeon, the child’s condition was improved by the operation, and nothing dis- agreeable grew out of it. Brodie, Cloquet, Iloustel, Velpeau, and many others in Europe have related somewhat similar experiences. Not only must the presence of a calculus be clearly made out, but its size, form, density, position, etc., must also be determined, and whether it is free or encysted. These are matters of interest to the lithotomist, who cuts for all calculi, hard and soft, large and small, encysted and free; but to the litho- tritist, who selects his cases, they are of much greater moment. If the stone is not easily found, and if it is not easily refound; if, moreover, it moves on the slightest contact with the instrument, it is reasonable to infer that it is a small one, and that it is free. But if we meet it in all directions, and if the sound strikes it in some way in all positions as we enter the blad- der, we have reason to conclude that the stone is large. Its approximate size may be determined by the sound alone, made to travel in all directions VOL. vi.—20