CYSTITIS. 349 uva ursi, and half an ounce of hops, or one drachm of lupuline, infused for two hours in a quart of boiling water, in a covered vessel. To the strained liquor are added two drachms of bicarbonate of sodium, and two grains of morphia if there be much pain. Of this mixture, a wineglassful is to be taken live or six times a day. It is of importance that only the recently made infusion should be used, as much of the volatile essential principle of the drug is lost in the preparation of the concentrated essences which, on account of their convenience, are now so extensively used. Amongst demul- cents, ordinary barley water, and a decoction of the ulmus fulva or slippery elm, and of the triticum repens or couch grass, extolled by Sir Henry Thompson, will be found of service in allaying irritation. In the treatment of cystitis, reference is often made to the reaction of the urine, as indicating the necessity for administering either acids or alka- lies. Our object should be to obtain that condition of the excretion which is the least likely to provoke irritation. We sometimes find that alkalies are being poured in with a vigorous hand, quite regardless of the fact that healthy urine has an acid reaction. When, however, the acid is much in excess, or the mucous membrane inflamed, relief generally follows the administration of an alkali. In some of these cases, when other means have failed, it is remarkable with what rapidity pus disappears from the urine under the influence of chlorate of potassium. It is best prescribed in the proportion of half an ounce of the salt to a pint of flavored water, a tablespoonful to be taken every three or four hours. In reference to the precise manner in which chlorate of potassium acts in cystitis, it is conjectured, from an analysis by Ludwig, that the salt may be decomposed in the kidneys by the 'acid urine, and that chloric acid, being consequently set free, brings about a change in the reaction of the urine in the bladder.1 In regard to diet, Dr. George Johnson2 has shown the value of milk, in both acute and chronic cystitis, its effect being to render the urine less irri- tating. In the treatment of cystitis as it occurs in the female, there are no better instructions than those contained in a practical paper on this subject by Dr. J. Braxton Hicks.3 The author points out how little is to be expected from internal remedies, beyond correcting the functions generally, and how much may be done by local treatment. Reliance is placed chiefly in washing out the bladder with slightly acidulated warm water, until it is clear of phos- phates and mucus, and afterwards injecting, with a view to its retention, a solution of morphia. Subsequently the permanganate or chlorate of potassium is employed in a similar manner. On the subsidence of the acute symptoms, injections of tannin or of perchloride of iron, followed by morphia, are substi- tuted, and are again changed as the bladder becomes less sensitive for more potent astringents, such as the nitrate of silver. Lastly, it must not be forgotten that there are cases of chronic cystitis which appear to be quite irremediable by any methods such as those referred to. In these the bladder is little else than a chronic abscess-cavity, into which urine finds access. Under these circumstances, cystotomy, in the male, becomes a justifiable proceeding; whilst, in the female, the establish- ment of a condition of temporary incontinence by dilatation of the urethra, is frequently followed by permanent relief. The advantages of cystotomy as a means of permanently relieving this condition in the male, have been i Lancet, Feb. 25, 1882. 3 Ibid., Dec. 16, 1876. 3 British Med. Jour., July 11, 1874.