834 OVARIAN AND UTERINE TUMORS. carefully counted, and the wound is to remain unclosed until all are found; then, with interrupted sutures of Chinese silk, or of silver wire, the rest of the wound is closed down to the peritoneum only. The question of drainage will depend entirely upon the thoroughness with which oozing from the peritoneum and adhesions has been arrested, and the probability of its return. If the latter be apprehended, or if enucleation, or any modification of it have been practised, it will be wiser to leave a drainage- tube in the lower angle of the wound. This may he of glass or hard rubber, and either Keith’s, Thomas’s, or H. Marion Sims’s, may be used as preferred. The two latter have the advantage of being double-barrelled, so that a con- tinuous stream can be forced through them. This may be carbolized, or mixed with “ Listerine,” or other disinfectants, at pleasure. The pelvic cavity should be thus washed out whenever the pulse or temperature runs up with- out adequate cause. (8) The abdominal wound is dressed in as nearly perfect an antiseptic and Listerian manner as possible. The line of incision is sprinkled with dry iodoform ; over this is placed a narrow strip of “ protective” oiled-silk, and then two or three strips of rubber adhesive plaster, extending from under the hips on each side to take the strain ofi‘ the sutures; over this is laid a treble thickness of iodoform gauze, and over all a layer of salicylic cotton, sufficiently thick to fill up all inequalities of the abdominal surface, and to produce slight, equable pressure. This is kept in place by a well-fitting muslin bandage; and, if possible, the dressing is not to he disturbed until the fifth day ; if there be no uneasiness, not until the eighth or ninth day. In the after-treatment, the great object is to secure rest and reasonable free- dom from pain, and to prevent high grades of peritonitis. To effect this the stomach is kept empty for thirty-six hours, and then small quantities of hot water are given, and followed by milk and lime-water, and other light liquid food. Morphia is given hypodermically as required. The complications to be apprehended after ovariotomy are, in order of time, secondary hemorrhage, peritonitis, and septicaemia; hut, in point of frequency and importance, this order should probably he reversed. If unmis- takable indications of’ secondary hemorrhage occur, there is no resource but to reopen the wound after giving a small amount of ether; and, if possible, to secure the bleeding points with ligatures. Desperate as this measure is, it is better than to let the patient die without making an intelligent effort to save her life. Peritonitis is to be combated by increased doses of morphia, hypodermically or by the rectum, and, in the formative stage, by external refrigeration. The latter is applied either by means of the douche and Kilbee’s cot, as recommended by Thomas, or by the ice-cap of block-tin pipe and the abdominal coil of rubber-tubing; of these the latter is much the more manageable. In septicaemia, the drainage-tube is to be used at once, if pos- sible, with antiseptic injections; and stimulants, and well-selected and nutri- tious food, must be given freely. The contra-indications to ovariotomy are malignant disease, acute disease (inflammatory) of the organs of the chest and of the kidneys—hut not chronic inflammations, unless very far advanced—and, in a more limited sense, uni- versal adhesions between the cyst and other organs. Pregnancy is not a harrier; and I have elsewhere1 given the reasons why, if the condition of the cyst be such as to demand operation, ovariotomy should immediately be resorted to. In 1880, Sir Spencer Wells had operated in nine cases compli- cated with pregnancy, with eight recoveries ; in five the pregnancy continued to full term, in three miscarriage occurred. Mr. Lawson Tait, in 1882, wrote 1 Trans. Amer. Gyn. Soc., vol. viii. p. 158 et seq.