AFFECTIONS OF THE VAS DEFERENS, ETC. 601 cula seminalis had been converted into a large abscess, which had perforated the bladder by a small round hole, just where the reflection of the peritoneum took place ; the pus, having found its way into the peritoneum, had caused a fatal peritonitis. Mr. Cock’s case had a more fortunate termination. The man had deep-seated pain in the lower part of his belly, radiating to the hip-joint on the left side. The symptoms increased in severity, with fever, pain in passing water, and tenesmus. Mr. Cock detected a fulness just above and to the left of the prostate, with an obscure sense of fluctuation. A puncture through the rectum liberated some thin, dark, offensive pus. These cases are to be treated by fomentations and sedatives, but especially by a timely incision. Cysts of the vesiculce seminales occasionally form, and may grow to a large size. They grow so slowly1 and insidiously that they are likely to escape detection. Fluctuation may be perceived by a finger introduced into the rectum, when deep pressure is made on the abdomen. Affections of Ejaculatory Ducts.—M. Reliquet2 reports a case of sperma- tic colic on the left side, caused by obstruction of the left ejaculatory duct:— A young man suffered for twelve months from symptoms resembling those of vesical ■calculus and prostatic enlargement. There were painful spasms in the region of the bladder, and severe pain during defecation and coitus. The pain and spasms were inten- sified by pressure on the vesicula seminalis with a finger introduced into the rectum. There was no stone in the bladder, and, on withdrawing the instrument used in the -examination, a violent spasm ensued, accompanied by the passage of urine, and by the discharge of forty small opaque white bodies, about the size of a pin’s head or a lentil. The concretions were facetted, with blunt angles, like prostatic calculi, and were soft like putty, presenting under the microscope parallel rectilinear stria?, and spermatozoa, which were rolled together. After their discharge, all the morbid symptoms subsided. Spermatocele. Spermatocele is the term applied to a tumor which is formed by a collec- tion of seminal fluid, and Mr. Curling objects to the same term being applied to encysted hydrocele of the testicle. It is, he says,3 possible that the semen might collect in and dilate one or more of the seminiferous ducts in the body of the testicle, in consequence of some obstruction, and thereby constitute a swelling of a similar character to the lacteal tumor of the breast; but he has not met with a single instance of the kind. In cases of obliteration of the vas deferens the semen is retained, and, its watery constituents becoming absorbed, the inspissated semen that remains forms small depots of soft material which block up the seminal tubes. The material below the obstruction is composed of cells filled with spermatic filaments, calcareous granules, and cells in different stages of fatty degene- ration. According to Breschet’s4 over-drawn description, spermatocele is a swell- ing of the spermatic cord, and especially of the epididymis, depending on the retention of semen. If the secretion be not voided, inflammation, bursting of the swelling, and actual fistula ensue. He says that gonorrhoeal epididy- mitis depends on the retention of semen, and recommends moderate diet, cold lotions, and leeches if necessary. 1 C. H. Ralfe, Lancet, vol. ii. p. 782. 1876 2 Gaz. des Hop., 3 Sept. 1873. 3 Op. cit., p. 412. 1 Observations et Reflexions sur la Fistule spermatique ou Spermatocele, Journal General de Medecine, Juin, 1826, p. 348.