897 NECROSIS OF BONES. appearance, by what elements the new bone has been reconstituted. If the sequestrum is smooth and single, without erosions or losses of substance, the new bone can only have been reconstructed at this point by the periosteum. If its continuity is interrupted in part of the circumference, if it is reduced in some places to a portion of the normal thickness of the bone, reconstruc- tion has taken place both by the periosteum, which corresponds to its smooth surface, and by portions of the old bone, which correspond to the eroded or absent parts. I am speaking here only of the sequestra of frank necrosis, resulting from acute osteitis, that is to say, of parts of bone dying suddenly, without having been previously affected, and therefore having the character of healthy bone-tissue. * How, in these cases, the sequestrum represents exactly the bony deficit; the erosions and the deep furrows which cross its surface have not been made at its expense; these inequalities indicate that small portions of the superficial layer of the bone have remained adherent to the periosteum. It is in the large bones of the limbs that the most beautiful examples of regeneration of bone have been observed. Yet all the bones may be repro- duced more or less. The short bones themselves, and the epiphyses, are sus- ceptible of a certain degree of reproduction, which is proportioned to the extent of their periosteal sheath. The portions of bone in great part covered with cartilage, like the head and neck of the femur, the astragalus, etc., are hardly susceptible of reproduction. The periosteum can reproduce only that which it encases, and that of which it furnishes the normal materials of growth. Examples of reproduction of the diaphysis of the large bones of the limbs have been known for a long time, and there is not a pathological museum which does not possess some specimens of the kind. I give here (Fig. 1440) a drawing of a specimen in the Musee Dupuytren, which relates to a necrosis of the lower three-fourths of the diaphysis of the humerus. The necrosed diaphysis is surrounded by a peripheral ossification which can only be attributed to the periosteum. The flat bones are also susceptible of reproduction by the same mechanism, and the necrosed lower maxilla is sometimes seen included between two ossified layers of new formation, one inside the mouth, the other outside. The same is true of the scapula; the old bone is included between two plates formed by periosteal ossification. Regeneration of the short bones has been rarely observed after necrosis. I reproduce here (Fig. 1442) an illustration of reproduction of a bony shell around the necrosed calcaneum. Surgeons have always been divided on the question of the proper time for interference in necrosis ; not in regard to the removal of movable sequestra, for all are agreed on this point, but in regard to the removal of necrosed parts still adherent to the periosteum to a certain extent, or still connected with a healthy part of the bone. There will be but little serious difficulty if regard be had to the mode of regeneration of bones after necrosis, and to the nature of the work by which the repair of sequestra takes place. When the inflammatory phenomena have abated, when the pus is in small quantity and flows freely, when septic accidents are no longer to be feared, the separation of the sequestra ought to be left to nature, or at least not pre- cipitated. There would, in this case, be a risk of deranging the plastic pro- cess which is going on, and of reviving the inflammation which is just dying out. But it should be well understood that one should thus wait only when it can be done without danger and without too much inconvenience to the patient. Whenever the presence of the necrosed portion keeps up abundant suppu- vol. vi.—57