200 URINARY CALCULUS. the urine shall be normally acid at the start, and shall not become ammonia- cal during the course of treatment. Roberts has continued these high daily doses of the citrate for many months without producing anaemia or gastric derangement. On account of the vigorous presentation of his method by Roberts, no opposition has been made to his conclusions, as a rule, and his faith in the citrate of potassium has caused it to be generally accepted by the profession ; but quite recently Garrod1 has repeated the experiments of Roberts, and claims that the latter was wrong in his conclusions as to the relative efficacy of the potassium and lithium salts. He shows, indeed, that “the results were, in each case, more than fifty per cent, in favor of the carbonate of lithium.” Garrod explains Roberts’s error on the ground of his having used an impure lithium salt, or having employed only very weak solutions. The irritating action of lithium salts upon the stomach is also denied by Garrod, who appears to use the carbonate, but is not specific in his direc- tions. He says:— The only effect I have ever noticed has been that, when the quantity has been in- creased beyond a certain amount, a little tremor of the hands is produced, which passes off at once on the diminution or omission of the dose of the salt. I have known patients of their own accord continue the use of lithium salts for more than ten years, with the effect of entirely preventing the recurrence of the symptoms to remove which they had first been prescribed, and without the production of any injurious effects. For my- self, I have not the least doubt as to the value of lithium salts as therapeutic agents, and am convinced that, by their employment, depositions of uric acid in the renal organs can, to a large extent, be prevented. Free dilution and administration upon a fasting sto- mach are points of much importance, which should be attended to in the administration of alkaline remedies. I have been much in the habit of using potassium with lithium in the form of the citrate or the carbonate; the former to give neutralizing, the latter to increase the solvent power. This certainly sounds promising, coming from such a source. The citrate of lithium is more soluble and more easily borne by the stomach than the carbonate. It may be given in from ten to thirty grain doses. Injections of various substances into the bladder for the purpose of dissolving stone have been used successfully ; Coulson alludes to a case in the practice of a Mr. Rutherford, but all these efforts have failed to favorably impress either the profession or the public, and Roberts demonstrates that the solution of acid stone by injection of alkalies is impracticable. Almond-oil and lemon-juice were injected by Baronins, the former as a calming agent, the latter as a sol- vent. Whytt used lime-water, as did also Butler, Campbell, and Rutherford. Hal es tried, in animals, continuous irrigation through a double current cathe- ter. Gruithuisen made some experiments in 1813, and Cloquet followed in 1821. He preferred distilled water as the substance to be injected. Attempts have been made to surround the stone in a rubber bag, and then to throw acid into the bag. Leroy d’Etiolles2 made such attempts, and condemned not only them but all similar methods of treatment, and, following up the subject after- wards (1839-41),3 decides absolutely against the practical utility of all forms of solvent treatment, whether used by the mouth or directly by injection. Hoskins’s4 nitro-saccharate and acetate-of-lead injections are of later date, their object being to disintegrate the calculus by double decomposition ; but this method lacks the confirmation of practical success, as does also the use of 1 Lancet, April 21, 1883, p. 669. 2 Expose des divers procedes pour guerir de la pierre. Paris, 1825. 3 Lettres a l’Acaddmie de Medecine sur la dissolution des calculs. 4 Coulson, p. 593, quoting from London Journal of Medicine, Oct. 1851.