HISTORY OF SURGERY. 1153 of tetanus, in cases of compound dislocation of the larger joints, particularly if efforts at reduction were made, led him to advise that such dislocations should not be reduced, hut be left to the slow process of healing, after long and profuse suppuration, leaving “thin and feeble cicatrices.” He says, “It ought also to be well understood, that the patient must necessarily be much maimed and deformed.” . . . “And yet in the case we are treat- ing of (ankle-joint) those who are thus treated are saved ; whereas, when the parts are reduced and allowed to remain in place, the patients die.” He says that the same rule applies to the wrist, the shoulder, the elbow-joint, and the knee. In regard to the latter he uses the following language: “ When the os tibiie, having made a wound at the knee, has protruded through the skin, whether the dislocation he outwards or inwards, in such a case, if the bone be reduced, death will be even more speedy than in the other cases, although speedy also in them. But the only hope of recovery is if you treat them without reduction.” Compound dislocation of the lower end of the femur he regarded as far the most dangerous of all. The cause of death in all of the above cases is “convulsions;” by which he evidently means tetanus. “The patient will not survive more than a few days, for few of them pass the seventh day, being cut off by convulsions, and sometimes the leg and foot are seized with gangrene.” It would appear that the operation of amputation of the extremities was rarely resorted to in the age of which we are speaking. Hippocrates says that in sphacelus of fleshy parts, occasioned by wounds where the large bloodvessels have been too strongly compressed, or in fractures of the bones which have been too tightly bandaged, the parts drop off' and most of such patients recover. In cases, then, of fracture of the bones, when strangulation and blackening of the parts take place at first, the separation of the dead and living parts quickly occurs, and the parts speedily drop off, as the bones have already given way ; but when the black- ening (mortification) takes place while the bones are entire, the fleshy parts, in this, also quickly die ; but the bones are slow in separating at the boundary of the blacken- ing, and where the bones are laid bare. Those parts of the body which are below the boundaries of the blackening are to be removed at the joint, as soon as they are fairly dead and have lost their sensibility; care being taken not to wound any living part; for if the part which is cut off give pain, and if it should prove not to be quite dead, there is great danger lest the patient may swoon away from the pain, and such swoon- ings often are immediately fatal. I have known the thigh-bones when denuded in this manner, drop off on the eightieth day ; but in the case of this patient, the parts below were separated at the knee on the twentieth day, and, as I thought, too early, for it appeared to me that this should be done more guardedly. In a case which 1 had of such blackening in the leg, the bones of the leg, as far as they were denuded, separated at the middle on the sixtieth day. In section fourth of his treatise on “Ulcers,” we find minute directions for preparing cataplasms. Among the ingredients employed for different poul- tices, were linseed, mullein leaves, sedum or “live-for-ever” mallow leaves, wine and oil, and other simples of an emollient nature. For astringent poultices he employed alum, oak, vinegar, the juice of the unripe grape, galls, and many other articles. In the treatment of ulcers Hippocrates also used a variety of mineral sub- stances ; such as the sulphate of copper, the sulphate of zinc, verdigris, lead, sulphur, arsenic, alum, natron, etc. He made use of “ raw tar-water,” which is believed to have been the liquid pitch described many ages after by Dioscorides. The application of this substance was a very near approach to the use of carbolic acid. Venesection and cupping were both practised by vol. vi.—73