270 URINARY CALCULUS. generally but little complaint is made of the pressure. It is unpacked by withdrawing the roller bandage before removal. A shirted canula may be improvised in a moment, in case of emergency, from a catheter and a square piece of muslin with a small hole in its centre. Fig. 1265. Fig. 1266. A modern improvement upon the shirted canula is the air-tampon of Bucks ton Browne (Fig. 1266), the invention of which is ascribed by the French to Guyon. Both gentlemen undoubtedly devised the same instrument, each without the knowledge of the other. The figure shows Browne’s tam- pon. It is a central tube a, surrounded by a thin rubber bag b, which in its turn is inclosed in a bag of thin swan’s-down calico, to prevent bursting of the rubber bag, and to insure against its slipping out of place when once dis- tended in the wound. The dotted lines c, indicate the degree of distention which is possible, d is the tube, with stopcock f, by which the rubber bag is to be distended with air or water, and e the strings for tying in the entire apparatus. Guyon’s tampon is a simple oval rubber bag over a hollow tube. The English instrument-makers, Matthews Brothers,1 claim to have devised and introduced this instrument, and add that Bryant in his “ Manual for the Practice of Surgery,” 1872, described their tampon five years before the appearance of Mr. Browne’s article in the Lancet. Their tampon was intended to be distended with cold water. This instrument is vastly the best single means of arresting hemorrhage after lithotomy which is at the surgeon’s command. It is a perfected shirted canula. Its introduction, well greased, is very easy; it will arrest arterial as well as venous hemorrhage. Cold or beat may be applied to the wound with- out removing the tube from its place, simply by substituting hot or cold water for air. Its pressure is uniform and cannot harm the tissues. It causes less pain than any species of plugging. It insures free drainage for the urine, and allows the vesical cavity to be irrigated without removing the instrument. 1 Lancet, April 19, 1884, p. 738.