CONSTRUCTION AND ORGANIZATION OF HOSPITALS. 1111 change of air, “ the idea of a thorough mixing of pure air with impure air, in order that the latter may be diluted to a certain standard,” and says that this is “ good ventilation,” and all that is practically attainable. Sanitarians generally agree that the amount of air-supply required, is that needed to keep an occupied room free from perceptible odor to a person entering it from the outer air. The measure of impurity is the percentage of carbonic acid as a product of respiration; and when this is increased from the normal ratio of between 3 and 4 parts, to between 6 and 7 parts, in 10,000, a faint musty odor is usually perceptible. In order that the air of a continuously occupied room should not have this odor of impurity, it is shown by Parkes that the air-supply should be 3000 feet per hour, to maintain this standard of dilu- tion. Billings’s rule is a most convenient and practical one, that heating surface, foul-air and fresh-air flues, and registers, should be provided for an air-supply of 3600 feet per hour. To avoid perceptible currents of air in a room, its movement should not be more than 1| feet per second, anywhere except at the point of entry, where, even if warm, it should not exceed 5 feet per second; and with a clear inlet-area of 72 square inches per head, according to the generally accepted rule laid down by Parkes, the amount of inflow will be 1J cubic feet per second, at an average velocity of 3 feet per second, or 5400 feet per hour. This amount of inlet-area is necessary to provide for occasions when unfavorable atmospheric conditions will cause a slower movement. Taking up now the subject of properly warming the air-supply in various climates—from those in which there are brief seasons of cool weather, to the more northern regions of the temperate zone, where provision must he made for variations from 30° or 40° below zero, to 100° F. above—the great variety of methods must be considered here in regard to general principles, and with but little of detail. Opeu fires may be depended upon in very mild climates, and for occasional heating are useful and very desirable in all small rooms; and for large wards as well, in cool or dull weather in the spring or fall, and as adjuncts to the principal means of heating in the winter season of the colder climates. They have a particularly cheerful effect in the centre of a square ward; and the Galton fireplace, and various other devices, are contrived for being placed at two or more points in long wards, and so arranged that the fresh air may be warmed, before entering the ward, by passing through spaces behind the grates. The smoke must be conveyed away by flues under the floor, to the chimneys in the walls, and there is sometimes defective draught, as the flues get cool quickly. They have been used in some small army hospitals in this country, and Billings says that “ at times it appeared as if the inmates might be frozen to death by their own fireplaces.” Improve- ments have been made in these appliances both in England and in America. The “ thermhydric grate,” invented by Mr. Snell,1 in use at the St. Marylebone Infirmary, works in an excellent and satisfactory way. The sides, back, and top of the fire are surrounded by a wrought-iron case containing water, and com- municating by short tubes with upright coils of pipes, so placed on either side that the water when heated by the fire circulates through them. The heat of the surface to which the air is exposed as it enters around these pipes, is not more than 212° F., and the expanding water in the apparatus rises into an urn-shaped vessel on the top, and gives off a slight vapor for moistening the air of the room. The smoke-flue passing under the floor is embedded or en- cased in sand, which retains heat and prevents the cooling of the flue, and above this there is a channel in which the fresh air becomes somewhat warmed before it reaches the grate. The apparatus is also adapted to a posi- 1 Mouat and Snell, op. cit., Part II. p. 62.