OVARIAN AND UTERINE TUMORS. 804 now rarely heard of. In all likelihood the tumors in these cases were liga- mentous cysts, whose accidental rupture was followed by absorption of the fluid and collapse of the sac. While the cyst remains intrapelvic, it is cause for anxiety only ; the moment it enters the abdominal cavity it becomes a source of increasing danger to health and ultimately to life; while, after much distention has begun, a fatal issue is only a question of time. Broadly, it may be said that the average expectation of life at this period is from two to five years,, and that polycystic tumors are more rapidly fatal than monocysts. Treatment.—The medical treatment of ovarian cystoma is palliative only, and consists entirely in attention to the general health, in enforcing regularity of meals, in the selection of proper food, and in the administration of tonics. The curative measures are surgical, of which paracentesis has already been discussed, while the radical procedure of ovariotomy is yet to be described. Before this, however, it is advisable to present a brief sketch of certain ovarian neoplasms which, though less frequent than cystomata, are yet of the gravest importance. II. Dermoid Cysts of the Ovary. Dermoid cysts, so called by Lebert from their containing skin or tissues resembling skin, may occur in any part of the body, but are most frequently found in the ovary. Their origin was long a stumbling-block to pathologists, but it is now known they are always congenital, and due to a displacement of the layers of the blastoderm in embryonic life. From the external layer of this tissue “the epidermis and other structures are developed ; and it is supposed that a portion of it becomes included in the part of the middle layer from which the ovary is formed, and thus forms the rudiments of cysts of a dermoid character.” (Williams.) These growths generally remain dormant until puberty, and then develop with some rapidity until they reach the size of an orange or the foetal head ; after that their increase is extremely slow. They have, however, been found at all ages of infancy. Cases are recorded by Iviwisch, and by M. Pigne (quoted by Thomas1) in which they were found at all periods from birth until twelve years of age; they have been successfully removed by ovariotomy during childhood by Dr. Mears,2 of Philadelphia, at six years and a half; and by Sir Spencer Wells3 in a girl of eight years. The cyst-wall is composed of two layers : an external fibrous coat, and an internal layer which consists of true skin faced with epithelium. A stratum of fat often separates the two. The internal layer is smooth, but embossed here and there with prominences. The multiple contents are thick fluid, and greasy sebaceous matter, intermixed with laminae of bone, more or less perfect teeth, and balls or locks of hair; sometimes muscular fibres and nerve-filaments. The symptoms of dermoid cysts are analogous to those of true cystomata, but the fluctuation is less marked. A firm, round, smooth mass is felt in one iliac fossa, and is painless, movable, and separable from the womb, gives a faint sensation of fluid contents, and does not seriously afiect the general health. Vaginal and rectal exploration proves this to be ovarian in its origin. The tumor is almost always single. The 'prognosis is more favorable than that of ordinary cystomata at an 1 Op. cit., p. 679. 2 Philadelphia Med. Times, Nov. 1871. 3 Obstetrical Journal of Great Britain and Ireland, April, 1874.