INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE RECTUM. BY WILLIAM ALLINGHAM, F.R.C.S., SURGEON TO ST. MARK’S HOSPITAL, LONDON. Anatomy and Physiology of the Rectum. The last portion of the intestinal canal, the rectum, measures from its commencement at the left sacro-iliac synchondrosis to its termination at the anus, from six to eight inches in the adult. The name rectum has but partial justification, and that only in comparison with the great bulk of the intes- tinal tract; for this tube is anything but straight, having antero-posteriorly two well-marked curves, an upper, which follows precisely the curve of the sacrum and coccyx, and a lower, which commences at the tip of the coccyx, with its convexity forwards, and terminates about an inch from it at the small orifice known as the anus. Besides these antero-posterior curves, a lateral one, from left to right, is usually described, beginning at the left sacro-iliac synchondrosis, and termin- ating at the third sacral vertebra. But from observations in the post-mortem room I am inclined to think that no hard and fast line can be drawn about this lateral curve. The meso-rectum gives the first part of the rectum great play, and as often as not, on opening a body, what corresponds to the com- mencement of the rectum is found close to the right instead of the left synchondrosis. About an inch and a half from the orifice of the anus, which distance is occupied by the internal sphincter, a dilatation occurs in the lumen of the gut, and in those suffering from chronic constipation this may assume enormous dimensions. I have myself found an impaction of feces lodged in this part, the size of a festal head. The structure of the rectum differs in some respects from that of the large intestine generally. Muscular Coat.—This is much thicker than in other parts of the bowel, for in defecation the expulsion of feces is greatly dependent on its action. As throughout the remainder of the intestinal tract, it consists of two layers—- an external longitudinal, and an internal circular. The former of these, how- ever, is pretty evenly distributed around the gut, and is not collected into three bundles, as in the colon. On the anterior surface of the bowel the fibres are found lying thicker and closer than elsewhere. The termination of these lon- gitudinal fibres is interesting. Some of them, according to Dr. Garson, pass from the rectum to the bladder, immediately beneath the peritoneum. The remainder are continued to the lower margin of the internal sphincter, where some, according to Dr. Horner, who wrote in 1826, turn under this margin, between it and the external sphincter, and then extend upwards for an inch or two in contact with the mucous membrane, into which they are finally inserted. I must confess that I have not succeeded in proving to my own