906 SCROFULO-TUBERCULOUS AND OTHER STRUCTURAL DISEASES OF BONES. the bones. Among the most recent works in which tuberculous affections of the bones are considered in the light of the modern views, I ought to men- tion those of M. Lannelongue,1 of M. Parrot,2 of MM. Kierner and Poulet,3 of M. Dubar,4 of M. Charles Kelaton,5 and of M. Ollier.6 I shall analyze these works in the pages which follow. Classification and Pathological Anatomy of Scrofulo-tuberculous Osteo- pathies.—The want of certainty which still exists in regard to the nature of some chronic inflammations of the bones, makes it a duty not to separate them too absolutely. I shall therefore classify the osteopathies which are the subject of this work in two groups, viz : Undoubtedly tuberculous osteo- pathies, and probably tuberculous osteopathies. In the first category are found encysted tubercle and the tuberculous infiltration of Kelaton ; the circum- scribed puriform infiltration, or primary and chronic tubercle, of M. Kier- ner, and the diffuse infiltration, acute tuberculous osteitis, of the same author; the isolated tuberculous granulations and the confluent tuberculous granulations of MM. Cornil and Ranvier; and the generalized miliary tuber- culosis of Parrot. The terminology has varied since the time of Kelaton; but his classification remains, and is sufficient. I shall adopt it. In the second category are the caries of systematic authors, spina ventosa, and per- haps the dry caries of Volkmann. I. Undoubtedly Tuberculous Osteopathies.—The habitual seat of these osteopathies is the spongy tissue of the bones. They are found, in order of frequency, in the bodies of the vertebrae; in the extremities of the long bones (epiphysis and juxta-epiphyseal portion of the diaphysis); in the short bones of the hands and feet; more rarely in the flat bones; and exceptionally in the diaphyses of the long bones. (1) Encysted Tubercle.—According to the authoritative description of Kela- ton, encysted tubercle presents itself in the shape of a closed cavity containing a yellowish-white, opaque material, resembling putty. This material has a characteristic odor. It is devoid of elasticity and retains the imprint of the finger; it contains no bony particles; it sometimes exhibits marblings of a whiter or grayish tint; it is not made up of concentric layers; it spreads through water without being dissolved, forming grumous masses which float at first in the liquid, but soon fall to the bottom of the vessel. “With the microscope this dense plasma may be seen to contain a considerable propor- tion of tuberculous corpuscles, mixed with a large quantity of amorphous matter, and a great number of gray or yellow granules, some fatty, others calcareous.” (K el at on.) Except in terms, modern histology has little to change in this description of the French surgeon. A icyst-membrane lines all the anfractuosities of the tuberculous cavity. Its thickness varies from one to two millimetres; it is gelatinous, at first soft, but 1 Tubercules des os, tumeurs blanches cons^cutives (Bull, de la Soc. de Chir. 1879). Abces froid, et tnberculose osseuse. Paris, 1881. 2 Du spina ventosa (Gaz. med. de Paris, 1880). 3 De l’osteoperiostite tuberculeuse chronique, ou carie des os (Archives de Physiologie, 1883). 4 Anatomie pathologique des osteites. (These d’agregation. Paris, 1883.) 5 La tubercule dans les affections chirurgicales. (These d’agregation. Paris, 1883.) 6 Des resections et des amputations cliez les tuberculenx (Lyon Medical, 1883). N. B. Among the recent works to be consulted, I would also mention Renaut, Notion actuelle du tubercule et de la tuberculose (Gazette Hebd., 1883). Chandelux, Des synovites fongueuses, articulaires et tendinuses. (These d’agr^gation, 1883.) Hanot, Des rapports de l’inflammation avec la tuberculose. (These d’agregation, 1883.) Quinquand, De la scrofule dans ses rapports avec. la phthisie pulmonaire. (These d’agregation, 1883.) Schmitt, De la tuberculose experimen- tale. (These d’agregation, 18S3.) M. Pollonson, Note sur les formes anatomiques de la tuber- culose articulaire et Devolution clinique des fongosites (Gaz. Hebd., 1883).