lithotomy. 291 tration, and that it is most often due to tearing away the cellular attachments of the bladder from the pubis. Evidently a clean incision without tearing, and thorough drainage, are the proper means to employ to prevent infiltration. The following is a description of the Petersen-Guyon-Perier method as described by Villeneuve:— Mode of Performing the High Operation.—All hair is to be shaved from the pubis, the parts are to be washed in an antiseptic solution (carbolic acid 1 in 20, or bichloride of mercury 1 in 1000), and all the details of antiseptic surgery are to be carried out. Anaesthesia is pushed to complete relaxation. A silver catheter with stopcock is'introduced. The bladder is emptied and washed clean with a four-per-cent, solution of boracic acid. When the wash returns clean, the bladder is slowly distended with the same solution and the stopcock turned; meantime the penis has been tied over the silver catheter with a rubber tube, the tension of which is maintained by a forcipressure forceps. The amount of fluid varies with the receptivity and the degree of irrita- bility and resistance of the bladder. If too much be thrown in, there is danger of rupturing the organ, an accident which has occurred in able hands (Monod, Cbeselden, Verneuil). Two hundred grammes (between six and seven ounces) is considered a moderate amount, and six hundred grammes the limit. A piston syringe is used, and a guide to the amount to be thrown in is stated to be the resistance offered by the pressure within the bladder to the surgeon’s hand as he depresses the piston—a degree of resistance to be learned by ex- perience. It is undoubtedly wiser here to err on the side of safety. Guyon believes that an irritable condition of the bladder, not tolerating distention, contraindicates the operation. The rubber ball (Fig. 1273) is next to be greased and inserted into the Fig. 1273. Rectal colpeurynter, one-half natural size; distended, and collapsed for introduction. rectum. It is an ordinary colpeurynter—Guyon insists that it should be made of stiff’, thick rubber, so as to be hard and tense when distended—and through its tube from twelve to twenty ounces of warm water are to be injected. Six hundred grammes is said to be about the proper amount, but undoubt-