721 URO-GENITAL FISTULiE. 1 Emmet. vol. vi.—46 two pairs of scissors, with different curves, are required. The annexed illus- tration (Fig. 1405) shows the tenaculum introduced, and the freshening of the fistulous margin begun. The part excised should not include the vesical mucous membrane, but the raw surface left by the denudation should be somewhat bevelled, broader at the vaginal surface, and thence sloping to the inner wall of the bladder. If possible, the tissue cut away should be in a single piece, for then the opera- tor is sure that the denudation is complete, and that no little islands of vaginal mucous membrane are left to prevent union. After a symmetrical and sufficient denudation, the next step is the introduction of silver-wire sutures. (Of course, if a sponge has been introduced, this must be first re- moved.) One of Emmet’s needles, round, tapering somewhat toward the point and there slightly curved, and about half an inch in length, is threaded with silk so that a loop is formed, the two ends entering the needle’s eye from opposite sides, and one being tied with a half knot round the silk close to the eye; the loop should be about six inches long. The tenaculum is used to catch up the part and hold it for the entrance of the needle, and, after the point of the needle has penetrated the tissues, is so placed as to exercise counter-pressure around it, and thus facilitate its complete passage; the needle is passed to, not through, the vesical mucous membrane. After bringing the needle and silk through both sides of the fistulous orifice, a piece of silver wire, sharply bent at one end, is hooked in the loop, and is then readily pulled through by the same. The accompanying illustrations (Figs. 1406, 1407, 1408) show the different steps which have been thus briefly described. The needle is entered about half an inch, or somewhat less, from the border of the denuded tissue; the sutures ai’e about one-sixth of an inch apart. The operator, in fastening the sutures, first draws the two ends of the suture somewhat tense, so that there may be no loop or twist of either, and then “shoulders” each, that is, bends it at a right angle to the tissue at the point of its emergence ; next the two ends are twisted together until they hold the opposite parts in exact apposition, and no more, for if the twisting be carried farther, there is danger that the suture will cut out; after the twisting, the wire is bent so as to lie flat against the vaginal wall, and is cut off so that oifiy half an inch is left exposed; Emmet directs that the sutures shall be laid upon the vaginal wall pointing alternately in opposite direc- tions. The subjoined diagram (Fig. 1409) illustrates the appearance of the wires after “shouldering” and twisting, and after the twisted wires have been pressed down upon the vaginal wall and cut off*; it also shows one suture being twisted, and two yet remaining to be secured. The number of sutures introduced should be carefully counted, so that when the time for removal comes, none may be left behind. After the sutures have been fastened, it is well to wash out the bladder with warm water, thus freeing it from any blood that may have collected during the operation : if any of the water should escape from any part of the line of closed fistula, it would indicate that the closure was insufficient, and that one or more additional sutures were required. After this the patient is placed upon her back in bed, and Sims’s sigmoid catheter is introduced. This “should1 be made of block-tin, so that the curve may be altered to Fig. 1409. Vesico-vaginal fistula; twist- ing the sutures.