1149 HISTORY OF SURUERY. He regarded diseases as processes which were governed entirely by natural laws and amenable to rational treatment; and not as a direct result of offended gods or the malevolence of demons, which ills were only to be cured by prayers, sacrifices, miracles, and other supernatural influences. Most of all, the splendid example which “ the Father of Medicine” furnished to the world, consisted in his careful and minute observation and accurate interpretation of the symptoms of disease, in his simple, methodical, and truthful descrip- tions of what he had seen, and in his lucid statement of the rational deduc- tions he had made. It would be unreasonable to expect that his writings should be entirely free from error, or his interpretations from dogma. The humoral pathology, the doctrines of crudities, coction, and crises, were among the cardinal theories of Hippocratic medicine. Before proceeding to point out any of the surgical observations of Hippocrates, it should be stated that surgery had a literature previous to the time in which he flourished, though, unfortunately, unknown to us except through the occasional and brief refer- ences to earlier writers which we find in the works of this author. Hippocrates is no less entitled to the distinction of being called the Father of Surgery, than to the universal and undisputed rank of being styled the “Father of Medicine.” No less than eight of the seventeen treatises now admitted to be his genuine works are strictly surgical. They embrace the consideration of many important subjects; and, though not constituting a complete system of surgery, they nevertheless furnish us a very clear insight of the principles and practice of this science and art as it was understood twenty-three centuries ago. These treatises vary in length and in completeness of finish. They include the following subjects, and are thus entitled : Injuries of the Head ; On things relating to the Surgery ; On Fractures ; On the Articulations ; Mochlicus; On Ulcers ; On Fistulte; On Hemorrhoids. The aphorisms are divided into seven sections. Section I. has 25 ; Sect. II. 54; Sect. III. 81 ; Sect. IV. 83; Sect. V. 72 ; Sect. VI. 60 ; Sect. VII. 87 ; in all 412, of which a considerable number, scattered through the sections, are surgical aphorisms. The follow- ing are selected to show the character of these brief formulations of his con- clusions. “ Convulsions or tetanus, coming upon severe burning, is bad.” (Sect. VII. Aph. 13.) “Stupor or delirium from a blow on the head is bad.” (Sect. VII. Aph. 14.) “ In cases of concussion of the brain produced by any cause, the patients necessarily lose their speech.” (Sect. VII. Aph. 58.) “In persons affected with chronic disease of the hip-joint, if the bone protrude from its socket, the limb becomes wasted and maimed, unless the part be cauterized.” (Sect. VI. Aph. 60.) When we reflect upon the character and importance of the numerous opera- tions which were then performed, we certainly find more occasion for admira- tion than we do for adverse criticism. Thus we find that, in the ancient days of surgery, fractures and dislocations were carefully adjusted and reduced ; extension and counter-extension were made by ingenious apparatus ; the most exact coaptation of fractured bones was insisted on, as it was considered dis- graceful to allow the patient to be maimed with a crooked or a shortened limb. Splints, and even waxed bandages, giving as much fixity, support, and immobility to the parts as is now done by starch and plaster of Paris, were then in use. Hippocrates also gives directions for the suspension of fractured limbs in gutters and slings. The projecting ends of bones, in compound fractures, were carefully resected. The bones of the cranium were trepanned for fracture with depression of bone, or for the evacuation of accumulations of blood or pus. Abscesses of the liver, and even of the kidneys, were opened with boldness and freedom. The thoracic cavity was explored by rude percussion and auscultation for the detection of fluids, and when found,