480 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF* THE URETHRA. of Voillemier, of which I have spoken in connection with the treatment of organic strictures of the urethra. Finally, in cases which have proved rebellious to all treatment, recourse has been had to cystotomy, which has been followed by success at the hands of llolbeau and of Verneuil in France, of Paroni in Italy, of Lawson Tait in England, and of Marion Sims in America. The adoption of this procedure in desperate cases of chronic cys- titis of the neck of the bladder, which are constantly complicated with con- tracture, has been elsewhere referred to.1 (2) Symptomatic Spasm and Contracture of the Urethra.—This second variety of spasm or contracture of the urethra is much more frequent, and may occupy any part of the canal, although it most often affects the membranous portion. It is thus that irritation of the mucous membrane by the presence of a foreign body, or by the introduction of a catheter or any other instrument, immediately determines a spasm of the membranous portion, which often prevents the foreign body or the catheter from penetrating to the bladder. This spasm generally gives way at the end of a few minutes. Likewise the irritation of the mucous membrane produced by acute urethritis, or by the presence of a stricture in the spongy portion, provokes, in the deep portions of the urethra, a more or less pronounced spasm. It is on the existence of this same symptomatic spasm that Verneuil2 in France, and Otis3 in America, have attempted to found a doctrine in opposition to the ideas generally received as to the habitual situation of organic strictures of the urethra. According to these authors, organic strictures of the urethra have their most frequent seat in the spongy portion, and the arrest which is experienced at the level of the neck of the bulb is due to contracture of the membranous part, provoked by irritation of the mucous membrane at the point of stricture from the passage of the bougie. These authors even go so far as to claim that simple irritation of the meatus, in consequence of the introduction of a bougie, suffices to provoke spasm of the membranous portion, and to simulate an organic stricture situated at the neck of the bulb. While admitting to a cer- tain extent the spasmodic contraction of the membranous portion of the urethra, in the conditions mentioned, I cannot attribute to it the importance accorded to it by Verneuil and Otis, and can still less accept the conclusions which they have drawn from it, relative to the habitual seat of organic stric- tures. It remains well demonstrated by extremely numerous facts, as I have elsewhere established, that organic strictures of the urethra are most frequently situated at the level of the neck of the bulb. Independently of spasm of the muscular portions of the urethra caused by a stricture, can this provoke a spasm at its own level; or, in other words, can a stricture be contractile? The fact is indisputable, from the results of clinical examination, and one may see every day a stricture, which had been passed just the minute before, opposing an invincible obstruction to the same instrument. Further, the existence of spasm of a stricture is perfectly consis- tent with our anatomical knowledge. It is evident that in very deep cicatri- cial strictures, in which the whole thickness of the wall is replaced by fibrous tissue of new formation, all contractility, all spasm, is impossible ; but if there be a moderate stricture, or even a very thick, dense stricture, limited to one part of the circumference of the canal, as there exists still at its level a certain number of muscular tibres, either in the whole circumference or only in one part, it is conceivable that spasm may be produced at this point with an in- 1 See p. 349, supra. 2 Folet, Des retrecissements peniens de l’urkthre (Archives Gen. de Med., tome i. p. 401, 1867) ; Landeta, These. Paris, 1867. 3 Hospital Gazette, April, 1879.