INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE URETHRA. 430 catheters are used. The patient lies upon the back, the pelvis being elevated with a folded cloth, the thighs separated, and the legs slightly flexed. The surgeon, placed at the right of the bed, separates the labia with the thumb and index of the left hand, and exposes the meatus urinarius, which is situated below the clitoris, a little above the opening of the vagina. He then intro- duces the catheter into the meatus in such a manner that its concavity is turned toward the pubis, and, pushing the instrument gently forward at the same time that he depresses it lightly between the thighs, he makes it pass on into the bladder. It may be useful to know how to pass the catheter on women without exposing them. The following is the procedure to be carried out with this object: The patient lying down in the manner just described, the surgeon places his left hand in a position of pronation before the vulva. With the thumb and the middle finger he separates the labia majora and minora; then he carries the forefinger to the entrance of the vagina and draws it gently for- ward until he feels in the median line a little depression, which is nothing else but the entrance to the urethra. He keeps his finger at this point, and passes the beak of the catheter along its pulp and introduces it into the canal. This procedure, the description of which I borrow from Voillemier, is preferable to that which consists in first recognizing the clitoris with the left forefinger, and using this organ as a guide to find the orifice of the urethra. Method of fixing a Catheter in the Urethra.—There are cases, to be considered hereafter, in which it is necessary to allow a catheter to remain for some time in the bladder; and to accomplish this various contrivances have been devised to keep the instrument in place. The majority of these have fallen into oblivion, and nowadays recourse is hardly ever had to anything but very simple means which the surgeon applies himself. That most commonly used consists of two cords, composed of several strands of cotton thread, which are knotted at their middle upon the catheter, about a centimetre from the meatus. The four ends of the cord are carried along the penis, one on each side, one on the upper aspect, and one on the lower aspect, and are attached by a strip of adhesive plaster carried two or three times around the penis. After this it is important to double the ends of the cord back over the strip of plaster, and they may even be rolled round the penis, the fixation being finished with a final turn of the strip. Endoscopy.—I cannot conclude these remarks about exploration of the uri- nary organs, without calling attention to the efforts which have been made to carry light into the depths of those organs, and to recognize with the eye the alterations of which they may be the seat. The more or less complicated forms of apparatus devised for this object, and especially the endoscope of Desormeaux, are quite difficult to use, and, up to the present time, have given results of no great value. So I confine myself to mentioning, without describing them. Traumatic Lesions of the Urethra. Among traumatic lesions of the urethra some are produced from without inwards, others from within outwards ; the latter follow the introduction of foreign bodies into the urethral cavity, or are the consequence more especially of clumsy surgical manoeuvres (false passages). Traumatic Lesions of the Urethra produced from without inwards.— These lesions comprise: (1), wounds, properly so called, made by puncturing