736 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE FEMALE GENITALS. The amputation may be circular, flap, or conoidal; and it is obvious that the same means cannot be employed in these different varieties of the operation. Amputation by Bistoury or Scissors.—First Method.—The patient occu- pies usually the dorso-sacral, but may be placed in the lateral position ; the vagina should be thoroughly disinfected, especially if malignant disease be present. The cervix is exposed by Sims’s or Simon’s speculum, and seized with Museux’s forceps or other suitable instrument, and an effort is then made by gentle and continuous traction to draw the organ to the vaginal mouth; this effort ought not to be made unless the uterus is mobile, nor unless there is entire absence of inflammation of the uterine ligaments and appendages. If there is room, a rubber ring may be placed on the cervix above the point of amputation, in order to prevent hemorrhage. While the neck is drawn forward, the posterior wall is divided by the bistoury, great care being taken to avoid injury to the peritoneum, and then the lateral walls, and lastly the anterior, are similarly cut through, the part incised be- ing exposed by drawing the cervix to the opposite side. The rubber ring is gradually removed by Gutting it, part at a time, with scissors. The hemor- rhage may be arrested by hot-water injections, by astringent applications, by the actual cautery, or by the tampon. But it is evident that union by the first intention will he prevented by some of these means, and it is better, therefore, to employ hot-water injections, and then to introduce sutures. Fig. 1411. Fig. 1412. Amputation of the cervix uteri by Sims’s method. Dr. Sims1 passed four silver sutures, two on each side of the canal of the cervix, through the cut edges of the vagina, antero-posteriorly; these sutures drew the vaginal mucous membrane over the stump of the cervix, covering it completely, but leaving a small opening in the centre to correspond with that of the cervical canal. The annexed illustrations show, first, the sutures as introduced, and secondly the same fastened, according to the method of Sims. This method has been criticized by Hegar,2 and more recently by Schwartz,3 on the ground that blood and serum may collect behind the sutures, and thus prevent healing, while Thorburn4 considers the employ- 1 Uterine Surgery. 8 Op. cit. 3 Nouveau Dictionnaire de Medecine et de Chirurgie Pratiques, tome xxxvii. 4 Practical Treatise on the Diseases of Women. London, 1885.