864 INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS OF THE BONES. the zone of growth is not always limited to pain, and in many cases it is only the commencement of an inflammatory process which may have very grave consequences. Osteo-myelitis which ultimately assumes an infectious character often commences like growing pains, and parents often mistake the significance of these painful points; they neglect them, let the children walk, and afterwards see the outbreak of graver symptoms. There is nothing so variable as the onset of these cases of osteitis, unless it be their subsequent course and the consequences which they entail. The grave and acu.3 forms sometimes begin suddenly, with severe local, or with grave general phenomena; but sometimes they are preceded for several weeks by juxta-epipliyseal pains which return in crises, as if by exacerba- tion, and which pass off spontaneously, leaving only a little torpor in the limb. The pain having passed off’, the child resumes his plays, but is easily fatigued, and remains for some time in danger of the most serious lesions. It is under these circumstances, indeed, that a slight traumatism, a violent movement, a local or general chill (from lying on the grass or the wet ground), brings on the symptoms of acute inflammation, which may soon as- sume an unfavorable aspect as regards the general health, or may take on a grave character simply in respect to the local phenomena. The same occa- sional cause then may sometimes provoke an osteitis the gravity of which is proportioned to the severity of the local inflammation, sometimes an osteitis in which the local lesion is lost sight of in the gravity of the general symp- toms. Let us endeavor to find the reason for these differences. Infectious Inflammations of Bone.—Since Chassaignac, struck with the severity of the general symptoms in acute osteo-myelitis, gave this affection the name of typhus of the limbs, all surgeons who have written on inflamma- tion of the bones have made the same observation, and have asked them- selves what was the cause of this great gravity. Soon after Chassaignac, Gosselin showed the relation of this form of osteitis to adolescence. Struck with the anatomical disturbances produced at the ends of the long bones, he described the epiphyseal osteitis of adolescents, and dwelt upon its gravity.1 At the same time Klose, of Breslau, described the same affection under the name of separation of the epiphyses, or meningo-osteo-myelitis; and various authors (Schutzenberger, Boeckel, Holmes, Giraldes) described it under the name of phlegmonous or diffuse periostitis. It lias by others been designated as. infectious or malignant periostitis (Volkmann), as pseudo-rheumatic inflam- mation of the bones and joints (Roser), etc. etc. The names of acute osteo- myelitis, acute osteo-myelitis during growth (Lannelougue) have also been given to it; Culot called it acute rnedidlitis. Since 1860 I have taught the frequency of its juxta-epipliyseal origin, and it was described by Garnet, in 1862, under the name ot juxta-epipliyseal osteo-periostitis, in accordance with the ideas which I already at that time held in regard to the seat of the primary lesion. Without discussing the value of these names, which have all some truth in them, and which are applicable to individual cases, we must here study the nature of this acute osteitis, and not seek solely in the localization of the inflammation, the explanation of its gravity. The most important ques- tion is this: is the bone-lesion the expression of a general morbid state, of a pre-existing alteration of the blood ? or is it the origin, the cause, the point of departure of this condition ? The answer to this question is of the greatest importance in regard to treatment; for, as the bone-lesion is the cause or the effect of the morbid state, we should suppress it as soon as possible, or abstain from all interference. 1 Gosselin, Archives Generales de MMecine, 1858.