989 SARCOMATA OF BONE. Symptoms.—These tumors generally develop without pain and without in- flammation. The first symptom is swelling of the bone. This swelling is at first hard; afterwards parchment-like crackling can he perceived; finally, the shell of bone being destroyed, fluctuation may be noticed, and sometimes the hydatid fremitus. The symptoms observed in the neighboring parts vary according to the region affected. They are, speaking generally, the symp- toms of compression. Spontaneous fractures often occur from the slightest cause. As a rule these fractures do not unite, and the diagnosis is established by operations undertaken for the cure of the pseudarthrosis. The neighbor- ing joints may be involved. In some cases the cyst suppurates under the influence of a traumatism or of surgical intervention. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis is almost impossible at all stages of the disease, and in the later periods it can only be established by exploratory puncture. Treatment.—(1) Puncture.—Puncture, whether simple or combined with irritant injections, does not give satisfactory results. (2) Incision.—This procedure consists in opening the cyst freely through its whole extent, emptying it entirely of its liquid and of all the hydatid sacs, and leaving to suppuration the work of cure. The contraction of the sac does not commence until after several weeks, and complete recovery may be delayed more than a year. (3) Resection.—This consists either in gouging out the bone, if it is not in- vaded through its whole thickness, or in a true resection involving a greater or less length of the diaphysis. The subperiosteal method ought to be carried out as strictly as possible. (4) Amputation is the last resource, in cases in which the cyst occupies too great an extent of the bone for the employment of milder measures. Sarcomata of Bone. History.—The tumors which are at the present day known as sarcomata of bone, have a history which may be divided into three periods. The first period is one of entire confusion. J. L. Petit and Sir Astley Cooper called them exostoses and carnifieations. Sir Astley Cooper, however, classified them according to their point of origin, and divided them into fungous medullary exostoses and fungous -periosteal exostoses. The word osteo- sarcoma, which appeared with Samuel Cooper, Boyer, and Richerand, was up to the time of Dupuytren synonymous with cancer of the bones, and it was again cancer of the bones which Berard described.1 Relaton considered sar- coma of the bones as the second form of cancer; and the same is true of the authors of the Compendium. The second period is characterized by the pre- ponderating influence of micrographic researches. Lebert studied the fibro- plastic tumors, Robin the embryoplastic, and Paget the myeloid, which were _ analogous to the medulla of the bones, and which Robin divided into myelo- plaxic and medullo-cellular tumors; Virchow restored all these tumors to the class of sarcomata. Finally, the third period is that in which an effort has been made to reconcile clinical experience and histological data. H. Gray, Robin, and E. Relaton, seek to distinguish microscopically certain benign tumors which form the myeloplaxic or medullo-cellular class of myeloid tumors. This distinction is also accepted as well defined by MM. Verneuil and Marchand,2 but some malignant cases have been recorded, and certain of these tumors include anatomical elements which connect them with the 1 Dictionnaire en 30 volumes. Art. Osteosarcome. 2 Diet. Encyclopedique. Art. Moelle des os.