APPENDIX. 1100 they are planned without attempting to cut oft' the water-closets from the wards. In France a notable innovation has been made in the form of hospital wards, by the introduction within the last ten years of the system devised by M. Toilet, an eminent engineer. The “ Toilet system” has been applied to many buildings, such as military barracks and schools, and to the Bourges, St. Denis, Bichat and Montpellier hospitals, of which plans and descriptions are given in Mouat and Snell’s excellent work on hospital construction and management. The principle of construction “ consists of forming both the sides and the roofs of the wards with curved wrought-iron I-shaped ribs, placed about five feet from centre to centre, and filling in between, at the lower part, with brickwork, and the upper, or roof portion, with tiling and brickwork, or concrete. The outer surfaces of the roof are finished with a coating of cement or tiles, and the inner surfaces with plaster, upon which is laid three coats of oil paint.” The novelty of the form consists in finishing the interior surface of the walls and roofs in the shape of a pointed Gothic arch. It is claimed that such buildings are incombustible ; that they do not absorb disease germs ; that the free passage of air is not checked by sharp angles ; and that it is always possi- ble to cleanse the inside surfaces with gas-flames or flush them with streams of water. The ventilation is effected mainly by windows and doors, and largely by inlets under the windows and outlets in the apex of the roof a little way below its ridge. These openings are provided with valves. In some of the Fig. 1516. The Toilet system. wards, small upper windows are placed about half way up, on the curved side of the roof. It is a part of the system also that the sick shall be divided into small numbers in one-story buildings, and that these shall be raised high above the ground upon open arches ; and that the water-closets shall be entirely detached from the wards by means of cross-ventilated lobbies. The Bourges Hospital furnishes almost the first example of this modern arrangement in a continental hospital. The St. Eloi Hospital at Montpellier is now almost completed.