994 TUMORS OF THE BONES. beforehand of cachexia. The embryo-plastic sarcoma appears to predispose to this more than do the other forms. Generalization of Bone-Sarcomata.—Sarcomata of the bones first invade the whole of the bone in which they are situated. This invasion takes place very rapidly in central sarcomata. In periosteal sarcomata, it is necessary that the tumor shall have first penetrated to the medullary canal. The tumor may extend to the neighboring bones, especially in fasciculated sar- coma. This fact is important in regard to operations. Involvement of the lymphatic glands is occasionally seen. Finally, visceral generalization is extremely common, especially in the fasciculated periosteal sarcoma, which has led S. W. Gross to say that spindle-celled periosteal sarcomata become generalized in almost all cases. Etiology of Bone-Sarcomata.—The causes of sarcomata of the bones are not well understood. Their occurrence has been noted at the seat of an old fracture, or an old sprain, or after a traumatism. This explanation of their etiology has been considered unworthy of attention by many surgeons, but I do not share such a way of thinking. It is certain that many cancerous tumors appear without appreciable cause in patients having a predisposi- tion to such a development; but it is not less true, if account be taken of the history given by the patients, that traumatism has often been the starting- point of a sarcoma. I have often met with such a cause, and I confess that I cannot comprehend why violence capable of producing inflammatory lesions in the contused bones, may not, in predisposed subjects, play the part of a deter- mining cause in the development of neoplasms. These tumors appear be- tween the ages of 20 and 40 years, but especially before that of 30 years. They are, according to Schwartz, twice as frequent among men as among women. Symptoms of Bone-Sarcomata.—(1) Stage of Onset.—The onset varies with each case. In the greater number of cases attention is attracted by pain at some point, dull, intermittent, increased by fatigue, sometimes rheumatic or neuralgic in character, and acute enough to prevent sleep. In other cases the appearance of an indolent tumor precedes the pains. Finally, in some cases the pains and the tumor appear simultaneously. Central sarcomata are said to be more painful than periosteal; and sarcomata of the diaphyses to be more painful than those of the epiphyses. In some cases a spontaneous frac- ture is the initial phenomenon. (2) Stage of Full Development.—The symptoms of this stage may be divided into three groups: (a) common symptoms, independent of the seat of the tumor; (b) symptoms depending on the proximity of a joint; (c) symptoms peculiar to a tumor of the diaphysis. (a) Common Symptoms.—There is a swelling which is continuous with the bone, and the base of which it is always necessary to examine, as the tumor may have mobile prolongations. The integuments, which are generally healthy, are stretched, but of normal color, and they do not ulcerate until late. In about a third of the cases, dilated veins are seen. The muscles of the affected region are atrophied. Tumors of central origin often present, during some period of their evolution, parchment-like crepitation. Fluctua- tion may be met with in soft tumors, or in those affected by cystic degene- ration. In some cases pulsation and a blowing sound have been noticed. The local temperature may be slightly elevated. This local rise of temperature is sometimes quite marked, and is proportioned to the more or less rapid development of the tumor. At the beginning, the general health is most often good. Sometimes slight emaciation is noticed, and a peculiar fever, called sarcomatous. (Verneuil.)