27 STRICTURE OF THE (ESOPHAGUS. Cicatricial strictures occur in the form of folds, bands, nodules, and aggluti- nations of opposing surfaces. Repeated detention of food sometimes dilates the oesophagus just above the stricture, hypertrophy occurring first, and fatty degeneration afterwards. Atrophy is not uncommon below tight stric- tures, and collapse of the tube usually follows. Etiology.—The causes of oesophageal stricture are obscure in some instances. They are most frequently traumatic, and due to scalds, to chemical disinte- gration following the deglutition of weak or strong acid or alkaline liquids,, to laceration, or to destructive inflammation and cicatrization following me- chanical injury or the impaction of foreign bodies. Intrinsic strictures are also produced by carcinoma, syphilis, tuberculosis, neoplasms, varices, ab- scesses, connective-tissue or muscular hyperplasia, and even osseous infiltra- tion. Strictures by outside compression are produced by abscesses, morbid growths, enlarged thyroids, enlarged lymphatic glands', and aneurisms of the aorta. Symptoms.—The characteristic symptoms are persistent and often progres- sive dysphagia, and regurgitation. In addition, there may be pain, sense of oppression in the chest, and nervous disturbance. In organic stricture, impli- cating the course of the pneuinogastric and inferior laryngeal nerves, there may be dyspnoea, dysphonia, and spasm. Diagnosis.-—The history of the case, the existence of dysphagia and regurgitation, evidence omauscultation of impediment to the descent of the bolus, and obstruction detected in catheterization or exploration with the sound, are the pathognomonic guides to diagnosis. Dyspnoea and dysphonia will suggest stricture of organic origin, the latter more especially should a vocal band exhibit paralysis. Any morbid products or fragments of tissue, brought to light by regurgitation or by catheterization, will serve to indicate the nature of the lesion which produces the stricture. Prognosis.—The prognosis is unfavorable in incurable organic stricture. It is comparatively favorable in cicatricial stricture of moderate dimensions, especially when due to a curable disease, or when susceptible to dilatation, to division by oesophagotomy, or to circumvention by oesophagostomy or gastrostomy. Cicatricial stricture of traumatic origin may exist for many years before the patient succumbs to inanition. During the process of hyper- trophy above the stricture, muscular power forces nutriment through the stricture ; but when fatty degeneration begins, this power becomes lost and marasmus ensues. Meantime abscess may occur, and fatal pneumonia or pul- monary gangrene may end the struggle for life. Treatment.—The medicinal and hygienic treatment of patients with stric- ture varies with its character. The surgical treatment requires in the first place proper measures for the removal of any foreign body, morbid growth, collection of pus, or other pathological condition remediable by surgical means. For the cure or amelioration of the stricture itself, the treatment, according to the indications, will be by simple dilatation, forced dilatation, or dilatation after section of the stricture—whether by internal oesophagotomy, or by direct access through the wound of external oesophagotomy or that of gastrotomy. The value of persistent, progressive dilatation, especially in cases of traumatic stricture, is not sufficiently appreciated by all surgeons. That much of the difficulty in cases of supposed unyielding strictures is sometimes due to spasm from attendant irritation—as has been expressed by Michel, Annandale, and Campbell, in particular—seems demonstrated in the successful, accidental dilatation1 effected by the swelling of a piece of dried peach, incautiously swallowed in a case of supposed impassable stricture. 1 Smith, Med. and Surg. Reporter, Dec. 6, 1S84, p. 641.