972 SCROFULO-TUBERCULOUS AND OTHER STRUCTURAL DISEASES OF BONES. in old age. Certainly the skeletons of women have normally less power of resistance than those of men. One ought to be very careful not to confound in old age, especially in women, the fragility of the hones which results from senility—which is sometimes very precocious in women who have had many children, and an unhappy life, full of all sorts of privations—not to confound this, I say, with essential fragility. In very young patients one should rather think of rachitis, and not speak of idiopathic fragility unless rachitis is absolutely absent. With these reservations, I will mention without comment that cases are recorded of unfortunate possessors of essentially fragile skeletons, who, after having sustained an incalculable number of fractures, became smaller and smaller, in consequence of the over-riding of fragments. At the Middle- sex Hospital,1 there was a girl fourteen years old, otherwise perfectly well, who had had thirty-one fractures since the age of three years; among other bones, she had broken one tibia nine times. What distinguishes these frac- tures from other conditions of fragility of the bones, is the ease and rapidity with which they are repaired. What is the real cause of essential fragility of the hones ? It is evidently a disturbance of nutrition or of composition; but which ? Only vain hypo- theses can he suggested, as long as no autopsy has been made, and no examina- tion of the bones, either microscopical or chemical. The ancients often noted fragility of the bones as a consequence of scurvy. From the oldest times syphilis has been accused of rendering the bones friable, especially when the treatment involved salivation. The fragility of the bones in scurvy and syphilis is not an idiopathic fragility, since it is consecutive to the rarefying osteitis caused by those diseases. In syphilis the bone may also be fragile because it is the seat of a gumma. There have even been examples of this in children, as in Behrend’s case, in which there were spontaneous fractures of the humerus and femur in a child eleven months old, with congenital syphi- lis.2 I have already said what I think of fragility of the bones in cancer. In the case of all neoplasms complicated with fracture, whether spontaneous or caused by trifling traumatism, there can be no question of essential fragility ; the bone breaks easily, either because it is invaded and destroyed by the tumor, or because the pressure of the latter lias diminished its volume, its thickness, and its power of resistance by wasting.3 Idiopathic fragility naturally remains unrecognized as long as the fractures are not multiplied. It is distinguished from osteomalacia by the absence of acute pains and of softness of the bones. The patients who are aftected with it are otherwise perfectly healthy. Treatment can be addressed only to the fractures. It is necessary to guard against vicious union, which alone is the cause of deformity in this singular disease, or tendency, of the bones. Some day, perhaps, the progress of liisto-chemistry will enable us to attribute it to a cause over wliich thera- peutics may have some control. At present we are limited to the common prescriptions of food and hygiene. Syphilis of the Bones.—Syphilis of the bones might properly be described in connection with the preceding affections, but has already been sufficiently considered in a previous volume.4 1 London Med. Gazette, vol. xii., 1853. 3 See page 971, supra. 2 Berlin, klin. Wocli., No. 30, 1882. 1 See Yol. II. pp. 481, 539, 563, supra.