728 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE FEMALE GENITALS. ment. The vagina is more or less prolapsed, so that both the anterior and the posterior vaginal vault have disappeared, and the condition simulates a simple prolapsus of the uterus. Upon bimanual examination, however, the fundus is found occupying its normal height, and a sound introduced into the os penetrates five or six inches or even more, instead of only two and a half or three inches; hence there is elongation, whether this be hypertrophic or caused by simple stretching of the tissues. It is not unusual to find, in these cases, a bilateral laceration of the cervix, and the lips present the form of a mitre. Emmet’s views differ from those generally accepted as to this condition, lie holds that true elongation of the cervix does not exist, but that double laceration of the cervix is frequently mistaken for it; if the patient be placed on her knees and chest, with her clothing perfectly loosened about the waist, and if air be admitted into the vagina, the hypertrophy and elongation of the cervix disappear, and often the cervix seems to be smaller than natural. Again, according to Emmet, in some cases of sterile and unmarried women the uterine body becomes elongated when the subject stands, and while the fun- dus remains stationary the tissues below stretch out, as if formed of soft putty, becoming elongated by their own weight. “ In this prolapse the uterine neck is pushed forward in the vagina, and frequently beyond the outlet, and the supra-vaginal portion of the uterus appears with a covering of the vagina, presenting the appearance of an enlongated cervix.” These views are of such great practical importance that they are sure to attract general pro- fessional attention, and I believe that in the main they will ultimately meet with general professional acceptance. Of course, if the condition be that which was originally fully described by Huguier, and for which the conoid amputation of the cervix was devised by him, that operation will be indicated ; the method of performing it is given on page 737. According to Emmet, it is only after every reasonable procedure lias been tried without benefit, that a portion of the cervix may be removed as a last resort and as an experiment; among the remedies to be tried he mentions glycerine-tampons, a blister applied to the cervix after each men- strual period, an intra-vaginal, and an intra-uterine stem pessary. If laceration of the cervix be present, the two lips appear as triangular, pale projections; amputation of these will for the time at least be followed by as favorable results as t.racheloplasty, and can be more rapidly done. Nevertheless, Emmet objects to the former operation, because after com- plete uterine involution, should a pessary be required to prevent posterior displacement of the womb, it will be difficult to keep the organ in place when so much of the vaginal cervix has been removed. It is, therefore, better, as a rule in these cases, to perform tracheloplasty. Further, in such cases there has usually been so much injury to the pelvic floor in labor, that the permanent cure of the prolapsus must finally be effected by Emmet’s operation for this condition, described on page 744. Fibroid Tumors of the Cervix.—The neck of the womb is very much less frequently the seat of fibroid tumors than the body, but when these occur in the supra-vaginal cervix, they present the same varieties as those found in the former situation, to wit, submucous, interstitial, and subperitoneal. Fibroids of the vaginal portion must obviously be either interstitial or sub- mucous ; they rarely attain great size. These tumors may cause sterility, by producing either hemorrhage or uterine catarrh. If pregnancy occur, they may present an insuperable obstacle to the passage of the foetus, requir- ing an operation for their removal—a mode of treatment which has been several times successfully resorted to during labor—or the performance of