178 URINARY CALCULUS. of a man of 80, who passed in all 300 stones by the urethra. Pulido’s scrotal stone, weighing 23| ounces, taken out by incision through the scrotum; the patient recovered with fistula. Kathelot’s urethral stone of 60 grammes, re- moved by incision, fistula remaining. Grsefe’s scrotal stone of 26 ounces, which escaped spontaneously while the patient was making a straining effort. Ulecia’s case of an 80-gramme stone removed by incision. Oiviale’s case of the old man whose bladder and urethra were so full of stones that no one had the patience to count them. Voillemier’s stone of 2 ounces 6 drachms, which filled the entire urethra from the meatus to the membranous portion, being com- posed of several segments. Camper’s 5-ounce stone cut from the membranous urethra. Maigrot’s stone of nearly 8 ounces, cut from the membranous and prostatic urethra by the bilateral operation, with fatal result. Da Luze’s 20^-ounce scrotal stone. Heath’s cystine stones, and many others of interest. Vanzetti1 tells of a Russian, who at the age of one year passed a kidney-stone which became arrested in the fossa navicularis, and ulcerated its way through the floor of the urethra. In its sac, which did not communicate with the preputial cavity, it grew for eighteen years, and when removed consisted of one large and many small calculi, weigh- ing collectively 224 grammes, more than seven ounces. Bellamy2 removed two phosphatic calculi weighing one ounce, from a sac beneath the urethra just in front of the scrotum in a man of forty. The sac was incised and a small orifice of communication was found between it and the urethra. The patient re- covered without fistula. Walton3 refers to another such sub-urethral sac connected with the spongy portion of the canal. It contained 146 calculi, and is now in the Museum of St. Bartholomew’s Hospital. Kerr4 gives another case, where a similar sac was found to contain 291 calculi, four of which were as large as pigeon’s eggs. This patient was 21 years old, and had carried the sac from birth. Symptoms.—The symptoms of urethral calculus vary with the position of the stone. A very small stone in the membranous urethra may cause partial or entire retention of urine by exciting permanent spasm of the “cut-off” muscles. I have recorded a case5 where retention, over-distention, and over- flow ensued from this cause. Impacted calculus at the meatus may also (but rarely) cause retention, and calculus impacted in a tight stricture may do the same. Otherwise urethral stone causes irritation, gleet, irritability of the bladder, tendency to erection, pain on erection, general inflammatory phenomena, etc., more or less intense, according to the position and size of the stone and the general condition of the patient. In front of the peno- scrotal angle, or at any part of the canal, if the foreign body be large enough, it may be felt from the outside. Diagnosis, in doubtful cases, is made by touching the stone with a probe or sound introduced through the meatus. Treatment.—A urethral calculus, when small and round, may be washed out of the canal by causing the patient to drink freely of mild, diluted drinks, or even of gin or beer. The patient should he instructed to hold his urine as long as possible; then he should receive a small, subcutaneous dose of morphine or a dose of chloral, take a very hot bath, pass his water freely in the bath, and, when the stream is under full headway, arrest it suddenly by compress- ing the urethra, without relaxing the effort at urination, and then immedi- ately allow the stream to continue its flow. This sudden distention of the urethra will often dislodge a small stone. If such a small stone lies behind 1 Bull, de la Soc. Anat. de Par., t. xix. p. 16. 1844. 2 Trans. Clin. Soc. Lond., vol. xi. p. 22. 1878. 3 Trans. Path. Soc. Lond., vol. xiii. p. 43. 1862. 4 New York Med. Journal, vol. xv. p. 283. 1872. 6 Med. Record, March 6, 1875.