1101 CONSTRUCTION AND ORGANIZATION OF HOSPITALS. A plan and elevation of one pavilion are shown in Fig. 1516. (This and Fig. 1518 have been taken from the work of Mouat and Snell by the courtesy of the authors.) The form of the roof is shown in the section of the corridor, on the right of the drawing of the front elevation. This corridor, connecting all the principal wards, except the isolation, lying-in, and puerperal-fever wards, is covered by a roof, but open at the sides. That part of the corridor which is between the buildings is supported on arches, and the basement is open like that under the wards ; but the space under this corridor and adjoining the building is closed in, forming a narrow room which is used for a con- valescent ward of eight beds. The wards, of 28 beds'each, are larger than those in the other hospitals mentioned, and the water-closets, instead of being placed in a continuation of the axis of the ward, are in an annex that projects from the offices, forming the central block of each double pavilion; and they can be reached from the ward only by passing out on the balcony which in this part is covered by permanent roofing. Verandas run along the outside of each wall, and in fine weather the beds may be wheeled out upon them through the casement windows. Awnings can be drawn over these verandas. The new Army and Navy hospital at Hot Springs, Arkansas, was built on the plan of the “ Toilet system.” An objection to this system is the height of the wards. It is common in France to build wards 18 or 20 feet high, while in the “ Toilet system” the extreme height is 25 feet. The English rule is 18 feet. Reference has already been made to the results of experiments showing that a greater height than 12 feet is probably of no advantage. Square wards, with central chimneys and fireplaces, have been in successful operation in the main building of the Massachusetts General Hospital for many years. In 1873 two temporary square wards, already referred to, were built, one containing rooms, and the other an open ward. The latter is 44 feet square inside, 10 feet high at the walls, 22J feet high in the centre, being partly finished into the roof, and is arranged for 20 beds, allowing about 1840 feet of air-space to each bed. The service-rooms are on one side of the ward, adjoining the entrance, and there are 14 windows of ordinary size, with hinged transom windows over them, arranged on the other three sides of the ward. In the centre of the ward is a chimney stack, on two opposite faces of which are open fireplaces, and on the other two, open Franklin soap- stone stoves, the flues of which are four iron pipes placed inside the stack. Auxiliary heat is furnished by four steam radiators hung under the floor. Additional ventilation upward is provided for by 4 registers in the ceiling, opening into a large central roof-ventilator; and downward by 12 registers in the floor, through ducts under it which lead to the stack-flue. Hr. Folsom’s plan for such a ward provides for 23 patients in a room 56 by 43 feet, with increase of space for service-rooms as shown in Fig. 1517. An improvement could be made in the arrangement of the water-closets. The Warren ward, described above, has been in satisfactory use for ten years, and its cheerful- ness is very pleasing. The new Civil Hospital at Antwerp has attracted much attention because it is the first one having circular wards. Besides the usual service-buildings, it consists of eight circular pavilions of two stories each. Connected with them by separate bridges above and below, there are, on one side a small building containing bath-room, lavatory, etc., and on the opposite side a larger annex, with three separation-wards, stair-case, etc. Each of these wards has a diameter of 61 feet 6 inches, and an average height of 17 feet, giving each patient about 149 feet of floor-space, and 2525 feet of air-space. A space is divided off in the centre for the nurse. Each ward has 18 windows and 20 beds. The ventilation is effected mainly by windows, in moderate weather. At other times fresh air is driven into the wards by fans, and the foul air is removed