TUMORS OF THE BONES. 988 Cysts of Bone. E. Cruveilhier1 has described cystic cavities which he considers the starting point of intra-osseous abscesses. Their study belongs with that of abscesses of the bones. The same is true of a certain number of tumors which eventually undergo cystic degeneration in some part of their sub- stance. The most important variety of bone-cyst is of parasitic origin—I refer to the hydatid cyst. Finally, true cysts are met with. These last two varieties alone shall occupy us. As they differ only in their pathological anatomy and in their etiology, I shall describe both varieties together. I shall eliminate at the outset a whole variety of cysts which arise in the maxillary bones, and which are known by the names of dental cysts, cysts of the periosteum, cysts of the roots, follicular cysts, dentiferous cysts. I shall do the same with regard to cysts of the maxillary sinus, and those of the infe- rior maxilla, which sometimes contain, as Prof. Gosselin has remarked, serum and sero-sanguinolent fluid. Pathological Anatomy.—Simple bone-cysts are unilocular or multilocular, but much more frequently multilocular. Their size varies. They may at- tain considerable dimensions, as in ISTelaton’s case, in which the tumor occu- pied the femur from the base of the great trochanter to a point two centi- metres above the condyles. The internal wall is covered with a membrane having the smooth appearance of serous surfaces, and sometimes presenting fibroid vegetations. These cysts sometimes contain pure serum, sometimes sero-sanguinolent serum, sometimes a viscid liquid like a solution of gum. In multilocular cysts, delicate partitions separate the different cavities. In almost all bone-cysts echinococci have been found, and in one the cysti- cercus cellulosus. The cyst itself shows nothing peculiar; it is constituted like all hydatid cysts; the bone occupied by the parasite is at first hollowed out into a cavity, which increases as the vesicle is developed. It becomes distended, and the shell of bone ends by being perforated, when the hydatid is covered only by the periosteum. Hydatids usually occur in the spongy tissue ; sometimes however they are met with in the medullary canal. In a specimen which I examined some years ago at the Hotel-Dieu, and which was derived from the practice of a physician in the country, I found several hydatids in the medullary canal of the tibia from a leg amputated the even- ing before at the point of election. I could not get any history of the case, but a marked hyperostosis, and fistulous tracks which appeared to be old, on the inner surface of the bone, attested the chronic character of the affection. Situation.—Hydatids are met with in almost all the bones: tibia, humerus, femur, vertebrae, and iliac bones. A number of bones may be affected at the same time. In 1872, in the service of Hr. Leon Labbe, at the hospital of La Pitie, there was a patient who had a large hydatid cyst of the humerus and scapula. Simple cysts of the bones have been seen in the femur by Aelaton, in the humerus by Sir Astley Cooper and Monod, in the tibia by Sir Astley Cooper, in the ulna by Carle,2 and in the scapula by Robert. Nature.—The ideas which we have in regard to cysts [apart from hydatid cysts] of the bones are very incomplete. Volkmann considers them as meta- morphoses of solid tumors. In reality there is no certainty on this subject. Etiology.—Nothing is known relative to the etiology of true cysts. As for hydatid cysts of the bones, their etiology is the same as that of all hydatid cysts. Traumatism seems to play a certain part in their development.3 1 Sur uiie forme speciale d’abces des os. (TliSse.) Paris, 1865. 2 Lyon Med., 1878. 3 Boncour, These, 1878.