7S1 DISEASES OF THE CERVIX UTERI. characterized by a superficial loss of substance, and by a tendency to extend upon the vaginal portion and on the adjacent parts of the vagina, especially upon the posterior vaginal vault. According to him, the third variety, carci- noma of the cervical mucous membrane, has its origin in the submucous connective tissue. Siredey and Danlos say that epithelial or superficial cancer of the neck of the womb originates either from the mucous membrane of the cervical cavity, flat cancroid, or from that which covers the mouth of the womb; the other varieties seem to originate beneath the mucous membrane in the form of infiltrated nodules, which grow and subsequently ulcerate at the surface. But the real point of origin, the anatomical element which undergoes the first change in the disease, is not certainly determined. Some make the epithelium intervene in all cases, the investing epithelium in can- croid, and the glandular epithelium in the deeper forms; others the intersti- tial connective tissue, submucous or intra-papillary. According to Ruge and Yeit, the disease may originate in the connective tissue, in the papillae, in the glandular epithelium, and exceptionally in the superficial epithelium. As observed by L. de Sinety, none of the forms have a well-defined histological character. They may be found united, or the disease may pass from one to another. Thus the ulcerating form becomes vegetating, or ulceration may occur around papillary growths. Siredey and Danlos say that in exceptional cases the surface of the cancerous ulceration is formed by a tissue of normal appearance, all the infiltrated part having undergone gangrenous destruction, the corroding ulcer of the late Dr. John Clarke. On the other hand, West holds that Clarke’s corroding ulcer differs from carcinoma in that there is no thickening, hardness, or deposit in its vicinity, and that it may continue for several years without causing any very formidable symptoms, while death takes place speedily and inevitably in ulcerated cancer. Schroeder directs attention to two points in regard to the relation between the ages of subjects affected with cancer of the cervical mucous membrane and cancroid of the vaginal portion, and in regard to the direction of develop- ment. The former disease occurs more frequently in rather elderly women, the average age being forty-seven, while the average age for those suffering with cancroid is forty-two. Cancroid spreads toward the vagina ; first appear- ing frequently on a single lip of the os uteri, or in other cases involving both, it rapidly grows until a mushroom-like or polypoid tumor more or less com- pletely fills the upper part of the vagina, without the cervical mucous mem- brane being for some time affected. Moreover, extension to the vaginal mucous membrane is soon observed. On the other hand, cancer of the cer- vical mucous membrane is situated superficially under the cylindrical epithe- lium, and spreads chiefly in the submucous connective tissue; it transforms the cervical canal into a cavity with ulcerating walls; it extends early into the uterine cavity on account of the continuity of mucous membrane, and at last involves the uterine wall, while only at a later period is the mouth of the womb affected. Symptoms and Progress of the Disease.—The beginning and progress of cancer of the uterus are in many cases very insidious, and the disease may have advanced to a state in which all attempts at cure are useless, before nature gives any cry of alarm. The three dominant symptoms are hemor- rhage, pain, and. offensive discharge. The hemorrhage most frequently manifests itself first as menorrhagia, and afterward as an occasional inter- menstrual flow; in some cases it may be excited by coition, but it often occurs without obvious cause. In those women who have passed the meno- pause, an apparent return of menstruation is very frequently the first indica- tion of cancer, and should always be regarded with suspicion. Mauriac mentions the case of a woman, seventy-five years old, who for more than two