ORTHOPEDIC SURGERY. 1084 neck, since the distortion of the face, when once acquired, can never he com- pletely removed. The most effectual method of overcoming wry-neck de- pendent upon shortening of the sterno-mastoid muscles, is the employment of tenotomy. The operation may, in the majority of cases, be limited to section of the sternal attachment of the muscle ; in dividing this, the teno- tome is entered at the inner border of the tendon and carefully passed behind it, care being taken not to push the point of the knife too deeply; the edge of the knife is turned when all the tis- sue which requires division is embraced by it, and the section is completed with a few strokes of the blade. When the whole of the muscle requires division, the clavicular attachment is reached by a second puncture made at the outer side of the tendon. This little opera- tion is not unfrequently regarded as a rather formidable one, on account of the proximity to the tendon of the large veins of the neck ; in its contracted condition, however, the tendon is in such bold relief that there need be no fear of wounding the vessels, if the pre- caution be taken of keeping the blade of the knife close to the surface of the part to be cut; to remove the risk of wounding a vein, a blunt-pointed knife may also be used in making the section, as is done when dividing the tendon of the tibialis posticus. The wound is treated in the manner usual after tenotomy, the head being kept steady by fixing it with bandages to the shoulders ; it is as well also to keep the patient in bed until the fourth clay. After the wounds are healed, mechanical treatment must be commenced; in slight cases, a leather collar may be worn to support the head and keep the muscles extended, but in cases of greater severity, especially in those in which there is much contrac- tion of the deeper muscles, a more powerful form of appliance is required. The most suitable instrument consists of a framework somewhat similar to the lacecl-shield spinal support; to the back lever of this instrument is attached a neck-piece with three racks and pinions, one giving lateral, another rotatory, and the third flexion-and-extension movements. A plate against which the occiput rests, is attached to the neck-piece, and to this plate are fixed two levers provided with movable pads ; one of these levers fixes the head by pressing against the side of the frontal bone on the side of the con- tracted muscles, while the second is carried forward to the lower jaw, where the plate rests a little behind the chin on the side opposite to that of con- traction ; these levers are supplied with racks, which enable the head to be very perfectly carried into such a position as shall produce full extension of the shortened muscles. A. severe complication of wry-neck which has existed for many years, is the formation of lateral curvature. Deformity of the spine resulting from this cause is illustrated in Fig. 1513. Three curves are generally formed, one in the cervical, a second in the dorsal, and a third in the lumbar region ; rotation is not present in the early condition of this curvature, but it Fig. 1512. Wry-neck.