APPENDIX. 1142 date of his death ; and should select a place for his burial, and see that he is decently- buried, and his grave carefully marked. The duties thus far pointed out are obligatory, and no excuse can be made for their non-performance in camp. There are many other acts of kindness, more correctly denominated “ favors,” that can be extended by a surgeon without detriment to himself, that will have a good effect upon the soldier in leading him to believe that his life and comfort command the surgeon’s consideration;, these being done willingly, will have the effect of improving the morals of the command and the usefulness of the surgeon. When a march is likely to be made, the surgeon is directed to send his sick to gene- ral or division hospital. Again he is called upon to make a careful and rigid exami- nation to avoid imposition; for the terrifying effect of a prospective battle will cause men to limp who never limped before, and many hitherto good soldiers will make an effort to escape it. The surgeon completes his list and forwards a copy by name, rank, and company, regiment, and disease, with descriptive lists of each man; when he loads his men, providing sufficient food for the time required to reach the hospital. Having provided the requisite quantity of medicines, etc., to fill the “ hospital-knapsack,” or “field-companion,” he gives them to his hospital attendants, and when the regiment moves, the surgeon, hospital steward, and attendants take their position in the rear. If any of the command take sick or are wounded on the march, the surgeon is notified, and is prepared to prescribe medicines or suitable dressings, and furnishes a pass for ambu- lance transportation (a duplicate of which he retains), or directs them to walk leisurely in the road, being governed by the severity of the diseases or wounds, and being careful that no deception is practised by men that are not sick, recording each case in his “field-register,” with character of disease or wound. Having thus carefully discharged his duties during the day, and though the march has been a long and laborious one, lie should, after arriving in camp, visit and prescribe for the sick, and endeavor to make them as comfortable for the night as the means at hand will permit, before his day’s work is done. Again, in the morning, before the regiment moves, he should see them and prescribe medicines for the day, select such cases as require wagon transportation, and see that they are loaded, and those able to march started, before he leaves the camp. From day to day these duties should be performed. Although trying on the strength of the surgeon, he should not fail to do them, as, sooner or later, a day of rest will come,, and he will be able to recuperate. Duriny an engagement, the surgeon, if not detailed on the operating staff at the hospital, should report with his assistants and attendants to a point selected in the rear of his command, either by brigade or regiment, and notify the sergeant in charge of the stretcher-bearers thereof, that the wounded may be carried to said point; to whom he should give such medicines and apply such dressings as their wounds may require to afford comparatively comfortable transportation to the hospital of their division, where each case receives minute examination and further attention. Should the sur- geon be placed on the operating staff, his duty, in connection with other members, is to examine carefully every wounded man and determine the extent of his wound, the parts involved, and the necessity for and kind of operation his case may demand. Should he be selected to perform the operation, he should endeavor to do it as scientific- ally and with as much dispatch as the nature of the case and safety of the patient will admit, and in all cases should apply appropriate dressings in such a manner that they will not become detached in transportation to general hospital. He may be thus employed for an indefinite length of time; he should therefore feel it incumbent on him to labor as long as there are any cases requiring attention, until all have had the advantage of primary operations, and are relieved from the excessive pain of undressed wounds and the increased mortality attending secondary operations. The duties of the surgeon in every position may be summed up in one sentence. He does not rest until everything is done that can contribute to the comfort of the wounded. After a battle, the surgeon will report to his regiment unless otherwise ordered, and resume the charge thereof, and will perform such duties as are mentioned in describing those in camp, etc., previously procuring the names of the men killed in the action, and of the wounded, the nature of their wounds and character of the missile inflicting them, together with all statistics required in reports he may have to make. The reports required of a surgeon of a regiment are the “ morning report” to the