496 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE URETHRA. compare with Fig. 1342. At the end of two or three days I remove the catheter and permit the patients to micturate without assistance, placing themselves on their hands and knees so as to facilitate as much as possible the flow of urine. The final resitlt of the operations which I have just described is as satis- factory as possible. As regards external shape, it is, so to speak, impossible to suspect the previous existence of so considerable a deformity, and in some of my patients it is hard to find the trace of the operations which they have undergone. From the functional standpoint, the I’esults are not less remark- able. The voiding of urine, having be- come normal, takes place with the greatest facility, by a large and strong stream. The only trouble complained of by those operated upon consists in the lingering of a few drops of urine in the newly made portion of the canal; but it suffices, in order to cause its expulsion, to make with the fingers, after each micturition, light pressure from behind forwards along the track of the urethra. Erection, which be- fore the operation had no effect but to bend the penis and carry the end of the glans backwards, has become almost completely rectilinear, and easily permits the accom- plishment of coitus. Ejaculation is effected in almost the same conditions as the emis- sion of urine, so well that two of those on whom I have operated have married, and have been able to fulfil their marital duties satisfactorily,having become fathers shortly after entering wedlock. Epispadia.—Epispadia is a vice of conformation characterized by a more or less extensive division of the upper wall of the urethra, accompanied or not by ectopion of this canal. The term epispadia was introduced into science by Chaussier and Dumeril. Etiology and Pathogenesis.—The etiology of epispadia is as obscure as that of other vices of conformation of the urethra; and heredity is the only cause to which may be conceded an incontestable influence in its development. Various opinions have been expressed by authors in regard to the pathogenesis of this malformation. According to Richet and A. Richard, epispadia is the consequence of an arrest of development which prevents the corpora cavernosa from uniting in the median line ; that is, a fissure of the corpora cavernosa. This view was combated by Dolbcau with arguments based on clinical observation and on the results furnished by two autopsies. This author begins by separating glandular epispadia, or simple superior urethral fissure, from complete or incomplete 'penile epispadia, which is always accom- panied by ectopion of the urethra. Arrest of development suffices to explain the pathogenesis of glandular epispadia. The glans, which is of late formation, is constituted by the re- flection upwards and backwards of the two vascular fasciculi which form the spongy portion of the urethra ; and it suffices that these two fasciculi Fig. 1347. Definitive result of operation for hypospadia;