INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE BLADDER AND PROSTATE. 396 Op. cit., p. 39. by their form from whence the escape of blood is taking place. In reference to the importance of this, Mr. Hilton remarks:1 “Swim out in water all clots whose origin is doubtful, in order that you may see the shape. Over and over again you will find yourself able to diagnose the case by this simple, common-sense expedient.” Blood which has been clotted in the ureters is sometimes seen in the form of worm-like casts of those tubes. I will now proceed to consider, in their order from the kidneys downwards, the various circumstances which give rise to haematuria, and any special indications, as bearing upon diagnosis, which an examination of the urine may furnish. As already observed, there is no symptom connected with the diseases of the urinary organs, which, in its thorough investigation by all the means at our disposal, is more likely to furnish a clue to diagnosis than that now under consideration. Kidney.—Hemorrhage from the kidney may proceed either from the secreting portion of the gland, from the pelvis, or from the ureter. It may be caused by a variety of circumstances, including injuries of all kinds applied to the hack or loins, the presence of calculi, the deposition of tubercle or cancer, and still more rarely parasitic affections, as in the endemic haematuria met with at the Cape of Good Hope, in Egypt, and elsewhere. Further, haematuria of renal origin is frequently met with as a symptom of other diseases which do not come within the scope of a surgical treatise. Amongst these may be mentioned Bright’s disease, certain eruptive fevers, scurvy, purpura, and other causes of renal congestion. Where the hemor- rhage proceeds from the secreting portion of the gland, it is generally found uniformly mixed with the urine, giving it a smoky appearance. When in addition blood-casts are discovered by the microscope, a diagnostic symp- tom of great value in indicating the precise nature of the lesion is afforded. Blood-easts in the urine have been frequently found following injuries to the back, where there were reasons for believing that the kidney had been ruptured. In wounds of the kidney haematuria is generally found to be a constant symptom. In ten cases described by Dr. Gustav Simon,2 it invaria- bly occurred, and in several in very considerable quantities. A haematuria for which the kidney is responsible may sometimes be trace- able to the existence of a stricture of the urethra. I have seen it occur under these circumstances, and completely disappear on the removal of the urethral obstruction. I need hardly remark that in this category I do not include those cases of haematuria which are due to the escape of blood from the urethra as a consequence of either congestion or ulceration behind the stric- ture, or of the use of instruments. The cases to which I. here refer are, I believe, the result of back pressure on the kidney, and are remediable by mechanical treatment. Persons who are liable to attacks of oxaluria, sometimes suffer from slight haematuria due to the mechanical action of the crystals in their passage along the renal tubules. In this way, as Vandyke Carter3 has pointed out, a nucleus is furnished for the formation of a mulberry calculus by the concurrence in the kidney of a colloid and crystals. Many cases of persistent renal haema- turia have been explained and remedied through the discovery of these crystals in the urine. Bladder.—Hemorrhage from the bladder is frequently found attending the presence of calculi and various vesical growths; of the latter, the villous tumor or papilloma is probably the most frequent. Where blood proceeds from such a tumor, it is generally discharged in large quantities, more or less clotted, and Guy's Hospital Reports, 1868. 2 Die Clrirurgie der Nieren. 1876.