INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE BLADDER AND PROSTATE. 386 the patient’s life most miserable, and in which he lives, in fact, with little other occupation than endeavoring to pass water, or introducing a catheter. This consists in the establishment of a channel other than the urethra, through which the urine can be more easily voided. Sir Henry Thompson,1 a few years since, advocated in these cases puncture above, or rather behind the pubis, the proceeding resembling somewhat the high operation for stone. A permanent opening has thus been established with good results, patients living comfortably, and passing all their urine in this way, for considerable periods of time. [The same surgeon has more recently recommended that an opening should be made in the membranous portion of the urethra, and that a tube should be thus introduced from the perineum.] In a case of large prostate, where catheterism was attended with consider- able difficulty, I tapped the bladder from the perineum through the gland,2 the canula being retained with the greatest relief to the patient for a period of over three months, when he was able to dispense with it. This case will he again referred to. For establishing a permanent opening in cases of advanced prostatic ob- struction, puncture by the rectum is not to be recommended. It is not adapted for anything but very temporary purposes. Notice of the various operative proceedings which have been practised for the relief of prostatic obstruction cannot be concluded without a reference to certain proposals which have for their object the section or excision of the obstructing part. This proceeding, advocated and practised by Mereier, has recently received some support from Gouley, in America, and from Teevan, in England. It consists essentially in the division or resection of the obstruct- ing prostate by means of what amounts practically to a concealed bistoury. I do not think that this operation is likely ever to occupy a prominent posi- tion in this department of surgery. The risk of hemorrhage, and the diffi- culty of dealing with it, should it occur, will prevent its performance except under very unusual circumstances. [Amussatdivides the obstructing portion of the prostate with the galvanic cautery.] Lateral cystotomy has also been performed to relieve the distress to which an enlarged prostate may give rise. Mr. Lund, of Manchester,3 has recorded a case in illustration of this practice, which, under similar circumstances, would he quite worthy of imitation. There are certain points which should be borne in mind in advising pa- tients who have enlarging prostates and probably weakened bladders, or rather bladders whose power is readily extinguishable; these instructions may be briefly summed up as follows (1) To avoid being placed in circumstances where the bladder cannot be emptied at will. (2) To avoid checking perspiration by exposure to cold, and thus throw- ing additional work on the kidneys. In a variable climate, elderly persons should, both in winter and summer, wear flannel next to the skin. (3) To he sparing in the use of wines or spirits which exercise a marked diuretic effect, either by their quantity or by their quality. Those should be selected which promote digestion, without palpably affecting the urinary organs. A glass of hot gin-and-water, or a potent dose of sweet spirit of nitre, will not do anything towards removing the residual urine behind an enlarged prostate. 1 Op. cit., p. 287. 2 British Medical Journal, December 24, 1881, and April 8, 1882. 3 Transactions of International Medical Congress. London, 1881.