405 RETENTION AND INCONTINENCE OF URINE, ETC. cessfully combated an obstinate stricture that had previously resisted the attacks made on it with a gum-elastic catheter. It is not a long time ago that a man was admitted into my wards with retention, and a badly lacerated urethra, as a consequence of an attempt on the part of the mate of his ship to reach the bladder by the aid of a pointed piece of wood, roughly adapted to the shape of a bougie. Here the operator was more than professionally interested, inasmuch as he had occasioned the retention by kicking the pa- tient behind the scrotum. The most remarkable piece of ingenuity of the kind that I can remember was in a case in which, after a patient had endured the unspeakable agonies of retention for over three days, an endeavor had been made to introduce through the urethra a piece of gas-piping, which had been devised, in extremis, for the purpose by the engineer of the ship. Unfor- tunately, however, this failed to effect its object. When I saw the patient, immediately on his arrival, I found the urethra much lacerated, and it was with considerable difficulty that I introduced a catheter, and removed a large quantity of the most fetid urine imaginable. Relief, however, came too late, the man dying shortly after his arrival, with convulsions and uraemic poi- soning. Other cases are on record, in which, all such rough expedients having failed to relieve persons suffering from urgent retention, they have actually opened their bladders or urethras with knife or stylet, by either supra-pubic or perineal incision. A case is narrated by Mr. Treves,1 in which a seaman deliberately punctured bis bladder in the median line above the pubis, with the small blade of a pen-knife, allowed the water to run out by the side of the knife, and then introduced a catheter into the bladder, through the wound. There he retained it until he found that he could pass an instrument by the urethra. The wound subsequently healed well, and the man recovered without a bad symptom. Incontinence of urine has been noticed as indicating the overflow of an already distended bladder, and also as a symptom of vesical irritability. In connection with the latter, it is most frequently met with in young children. Here incontinence is, for the most part, traceable to a variety of causes capa- ble of disturbing, chiefly by reflected action, the innervation of the bladder. For the treatment of this form of incontinence, which is chiefly nocturnal, reference should be made to the section relating to irritability of the bladder. There are other forms of incontinence which will require a brief notice. There is that of young adults, which seems as if it had grown up with them. Met with in such persons, it is productive of very great distress. In the case of domestic servants, it may become an insuperable objection to their obtain- ing employment. In many of these cases it is impossible to discover any tangible cause for its continuance. If it is merely a habit, it differs from others by the impossibility of breaking it off by any manner or kind of expe- dient. Males have been known to encircle the penis with iron rings for the purpose of exercising compression on the urethra. Instances are recorded, in which it has been necessary to remove such rings, and other rude expedients used for a similar purpose, by surgical operation. These cases are referred to as indicating the straits to which this state of incontinence may bring its victims. Dr. Allbutt, of Leeds,2 lays stress on the benefit that belladonna in full doses is capable of effecting in these cases. Chloral also has been found exceedingly useful. Dr. Allbutt has pointed out that this class of cases is analogous to that in which seminal emissions take place, independently, as Lancet, Sept. 4, 1880. 2 Lancet, Nov. 26, 1870.