799 OVARIAN CYSTS AND CYSTOMATA. 1 Op. cit., p. 712. which the abdominal swelling entirely disappears. In a few cases this curious condition is produced at will, hut commonly the patient is quite innocent of deception, and the spasm is due to reflex spinal irritation. (4) Cases of spurious pregnancy, so called, are generally met with about the menopause, although they may occur at any age. Here the condition is usu- ally a mixture of the two last described. The patient imagines, or professes to imagine, herself pregnant, has morning sickness, enlargement of the breasts and abdomen, and sensations of quickening. On examination no tumor can be found; the uterus is normal in size and position, and the abdominal swelling is due either to fat, intestinal flatus, or phantom tumor. 2. True pregnancy has often been mistaken for ovarian tumor, and results disastrous alike to patient and surgeon have followed such unfortunate errors. I have seen in consultation two such cases—one of normal, one of extra- uterine (ventral) pregnancy—where ovariotomy had been advised; and Thomas1 says that within eighteen months three were sent to him “ not by ignorant men, but by very capable practitioners.” In many cases indeed the diagnosis presents great difficulties; and, as the most usual form of abdomi- nal enlargement in women, the possibility of pregnancy should always be borne in mind, and its existence carefully eliminated. This can only be done by reliance on its physical signs; the rational may be, and often are, con- cealed and falsified by the patient. In normal pregnancy these are well known. For the first two months the womb remains in the pelvis, slowly enlarging and becoming softer, as con- joined examination easily demonstrates. The swelling is in the median line, while a small ovarian cyst is always lateral. In the third month the uterus rises to the pelvic brim, but presents no new physical signs until the fifth, when enough amniotic fluid collects to give rise to slight fluctuation. This continues until the full term is completed. Its quantity varies greatly in different cases; and where the accumulation is considerable and the uterine walls thin, the sense of fluctuation is quite distinct. But careful palpation always reveals the foetus as a solid body floating in it. This ballottement, in conjunction with the typical softening of the cervix and blueness of the va- gina, usually suffices to determine the diagnosis. The placental murmur is unimportant, as a similar sound is often obtained in soft fibroids, and occasion- ally in vascular cysts; but if the child be alive, the crucial test is the sound of the foetal heart, which nothing simulates. The spontaneous movements of the foetus, if distinct, are also conclusive of pregnancy; but these are often difficult to distinguish from muscular or intestinal contractions. In extra-uterine pregnancy the differentiation is less easy. Of the three clinical varieties of this distressing anomaly—tubal, interstitial, and abdomi- nal—only the first and last named need detain us; for interstitial pregnancy is not only excessively rare, but, forming as it does a tumor-like mass insepa- rable from the womb, it is unlikely to be mistaken for a cyst at any stage of development. In tubal pregnancy the resemblance to a young cyst is extreme, and the diagnosis can only be made by careful attention to the accompanying symp- toms. An intra-pelvic cyst is either discovered by accident, or pain—general, pelvic aching—alone leads the patient to apply for advice. It is far otherwise in tubal pregnancy. Here also pain occurs, but it is paroxysmal, confined to one iliac fossa, often intensely severe, and “bearing-down” in character like the lesser expulsive pains of labor or miscarriage; with this occur intermit- tent attacks of uterine hemorrhage, which at times is quite profuse and exhausting. Besides this, menstruation has ceased or has been irregular, and