1094 APPENDIX. laticm, and this must be supplemented by properly classifying and isolating dangerous cases; by thorough cleanliness, removing at once all septic ele- ments ; and by repelling all atmospheric impurities that may come from bad drainage or other external sources. The investigations and controversies, to which only brief reference can be made here, that have been carried on during the past twenty years as to the nature of these septic influences and the best means of destroying them, have been productive of incalculable good, but they are far from sustaining the conclusions of those who have maintained the theory of “hospitalism.” The statistics upon which it is based are found to be unreliable, and not susceptible of comparison. Old and large, and even badly constructed hospitals have been proved to be healthy for surgical cases, when the “ fault of keeping” and overcrowding have been remedied, and the ventilation im- proved. Whether those who believe in “ Listerism,” or its opponents, are right, it has been proved that cleanliness of wounds and careful dressings, prevent “ hospitalism” in well-kept wards, even in large hospitals under dis- advantages as to ventilation. The history of maternity hospitals in the last eighteen years proves also the possible immunity from “hospitalism” of puer- peral women, in clean wards with sufficient air-space. Antiseptic surgery may be no less a boon, because of its having brought out the fact that it is not always necessary in hospital wards. The study of the subject has made plainer what we knew before, that there are septic influences in crowded or ill-ventilated wards, that increase the death-rate of medical as well as of surgical cases, other than those that can be destroyed by Listerism. ' In considering the causes of “hospitalism,” it is interesting to remember that as long ago as 1787, M. Tenon made one of the most important contributions to the subject that it has ever received, when he pointed out the causes of the terrible evils at the Hotel Dieu. He had learned that wards for cases of putrid fever must not be placed near the wards of the wounded; that the linen and clothing should he separated, according to the locality of the different diseases, so that it should not be taken from one kind of sick person to another. He pointed out the danger resulting from placing from three to six patients in the same bed, and protested against the abuse of putting too many patients in each ward ; and he devised a means of comparing one ward with another, by considering the quantity of air which each patient had to respire, and its circulation and removal. He proved that everything essential to the wounded—pure air, cleanliness, and quiet—was wanting at the Hotel Dieu ; he showed that, the mortality in puerperal cases was often one-lialf, and some- times 19 out of 20 ; and he proposed to separate such patients from the others —above all, from the wounded; to put a smaller number in the same ward ; to ventilate these wards; to shelter them from damp and noise; to separate healthy pregnant women from the unhealthy, etc.; and thus, with a remark- able prevision of what we have seen in our own times, he pictured in strong colors the extreme of the evils which we to-day avoid by the very means he had the wisdom to suggest. The history of the subject to the present time is but a series of variations in lessening degrees upon this theme, in all the hospitals of the world, which has so slowly "come to know the truth. It needs no more proving to show that sufficient room and fresh air, and avoidance of sewage-contamination of water and air, are necessary to prevent either sick or well people from poison- ing each other by their neighborhood. Bad construction with good manage- ment is still bad ; and good construction with bad management may be worse, but can be made altogether good. For our purpose there is only one conclusion: that in building new hospitals we must have good ventilation,