PREPARATION OF MILITARY SURGEONS FOR FIELD DUTIES. 1143 adjutant, the “ weekly” to the surgeon-in-chief of the brigade, and the “ monthly.” It is altogether necessary that a medical officer should so conduct his department that he may secure the confidence of the officer in command of the regiment to which he is attached, that said officer may receive his reports and rely on their correctness. If both military and medical officers are sincerely interested in the health of the regiment, and act in concert, much can be done to promote order and discipline. The necessity for this can be discovered when the opposite is experienced. The surgeon cannot have an order issued or carried into effect without great difficulty, and if the variance should continue, the intercourse will be so unpleasant that the command eventually suffers in consequence. The officers are mutually responsible and should be mutually respectful. Duties of the Assistant Regimental Surgeon The duties of an assistant surgeon when in charge of a regiment or hospital are identical with those of a surgeon in the same position. If he be acting under a surgeon in charge, he will perform such share of the surgeon’s duties in the care of the sick as the surgeon may assign to him. The sick in the ambulances on the march are usually put in charge of an assistant surgeon, one or more, whose duty it is to accompany the ambulances and see that such medicines are administered as the patients may require; usually he both prescribes and dispenses. He decides also what patients must be carried, and when they are well enough to walk or to rejoin their companies. Beef-stock, tea, and sugar, are carried in each ambulance for the use of the sick, subject to the order of the assistant surgeon in charge, and to be prepared by the ambulance-men belonging to each ambulance. When an action is about to take place, the surgeons with the regiments are usually ordered to the division hospital, while the assistant surgeons are left to establish depots, where the wounded come or are brought by the stretcher-bearers to be dressed. A depot of this kind should be in some comparatively safe place, but not too far from the regiment, and where the ambulances can have a good chance to come without being in great danger from the enemy’s fire; it should also be convenient to good water, which will be needed for dressing the wounded. If the place is too much exposed, the stretcher-men will not be likely to bring the wounded, nor will wounded men wish to be left where they may get more wounds while being dressed or waiting their turn to be attended to; but will prefer to go further to the rear. If the ambulances cannot come to the depots where the men are brought to be dressed, a sudden change ir the lines may cause some men to be left on the field who were waiting to be attended to, and who might have been carried off in a very few moments if necessary, even though they were not dressed, were the ambulances there. Still, although perfectly safe places can seldom be found near where the fighting is going on, especially where the ground is comparatively even, the assistant surgeon should not allow his fears to induce him to remain too far away from his men, and they should be kept advised of his whereabouts ; hence, when a regimental field hospital has been established, it should not be moved unless absolutely necessary. Assistant surgeons on the battle-field should be furnished with the ordinary surgeon’s dressing case of instruments—operations requiring other instruments than these are usually of too severe a character to be attempted on the field. He should be accom- panied by one or two nurses with plenty of lint, bandages, isinglass plaster, water, sponges, and a few of the most frequently required medicines. After dressing the men, the surgeon should see that they are properly placed in the ambulances, and give the direction for their care until they reach the division hospital—duties often of great im- portance to the patient. When it can be done conveniently, it is better that the assist- ant surgeons of several regiments or of a brigade be together on the field, as they will often be enabled to assist and advise each other. An assistant surgeon in the field has very little opportunity for observing severe surgical cases; after the first dressing, he very rarely sees or hears anything of their further treatment or termination. Duties of the Commissary of Subsistence of a Division Hospital The division Hospital Commissary is under the immediate direction of the surgeon in charge of the hospital; he makes reports to him and receives his orders. His duties while in camp are to draw at stated intervals from the commissary officer, authorized to issue to the hospital such stores as are required for the use of the sick and wounded, stewards, and authorized attendants, on provision returns approved by the surgeon in charge. He is required by existing orders to keep on hand at least one thousand rations of bread,