449 FOREIGN BODIES IN THE URETHRA. same objection : tlieir manipulation is difficult, and it exposes the urethra to the gravest lesions. It is for this reason that, although practicable with Fig. 1324. Nelaton’s urethral lithotrlte. advantage under certain circumstances, urethral lithotrity must be consid- ered as inferior in value to other methods, such as propulsion toward the bladder, or incision of the urethra. (2) Propulsion of the calculus into the bladder is suited, naturally, only to stones arrested in the deep portions of the urethra. It is easily accomplished with the help of a large metallic sound, with which the foreign body is gently pushed back until it falls into the bladder. When this result is obtained, the surgeon proceeds, either at once or some days afterwards, to crush the stone with a lithotrite. (3) Incision of the urethra may be practised upon any part of the canal, but it is especially adapted to cases in which the calculus is arrested in the spongy portion. In such cases the operation is very simple. The foreign body, which forms a more or less voluminous tumor, is firmly held between the fingers, while the surgeon incises the soft parts directly upon it, and makes an opening just sufficient to*give exit to the calculus. When this is extracted, the little wound may be closed immediately with a few points of suture, or its healing may be left to Nature, but with the precaution in both cases of introducing a catheter and leaving it in the urethra. The arrest of a calculus in the urethra is sometimes complicated by the presence of a stric- ture, situated in front of the calculus. What should be the conduct of the surgeon in such a case? If the stone be small, and if the patient can pass water, it will be advisable to practise dilatation of the stricture, and, as soon as the canal is sufficiently enlarged, to extract the foreign body with a special instrument. If, on the contrary, the patient be unable to urinate, and the extraction of the foreign body must be effected immediately, two cases may present themselves. Sometimes the stone is small enough to pass through the canal, if free from obstruction ; then recourse should be had to internal urethrotomy. Sometimes the calculus is large, and its extraction impossible even after division of the stricture; then the urethra maybe incised upon the foreign body without hesitation, and the opening thus made may be utilized to divide the stricture at the same time, and to effect its cure. Foreign Bodies introduced through the Meatus.—Foreign bodies arrested in the urethra after having entered it by the meatus, are so numerous, and differ so much one from another in dimensions, form, and nature, that it would be almost impossible to give a complete list of them here. Ordinarily they are, in adults, needles, pins, pencils, pieces of wood or hay, pipe-stems, heads of grain—introduced most frequently for unnatural purposes, sometimes to alle- viate pain or simple itching ; in children, stones of fruits, grains, pebbles, balls of glass or metal, and other playthings. In other cases they are ends of gum or metal catheters, or fragments of lithotrites or caustic-holders broken during an operation. All these objects, once engaged in the urethra, have a marked tendency to pass more deeply within it, as if the bladder exercised upon them a sort of attraction or aspiration. This phenomenon is explained easily enough in the case of elongated foreign bodies, blunt at one end and vol. vi.—29