963 OSTEOMALACIA AND FRAGILITAS OSSIUM. of the pharmacopoeia, show clearly the impotence of art in this redoubtable and enigmatic malady. Osteitis Deformans of Paget ; Benign Hypertrophic Osteomalacia.— Sir James Paget described, on the 14tli of November, 1876,1 under the name of osteitis deformans, a disease of the bones characterized by the follow- ing features. It commences in or after middle age; it is very slow in its course; it progresses for years with- out affecting the general health, de- Fig. 1458. termining no other troubles than those which result from alteration of the shape, volume, and direction of the diseased bones. Even when the cra- nium is enormously thickened (Fig. 1458), and when all the bones are ex- tremely altered in their structure, the intelligence remains intact. The disease usually affects, in the first place, the long bones of the lower limbs and those of the cranium. It is usually symmetrical. The bones in- crease in size and soften. The affected portions of the skeleton which have to bear the weight of the body, are bent and deformed by the abnormal curva- tures which they assume. (See Fig. 1459 and Fig. 1460.) The natural curves of the vertebral column increase, and from this results a considerable diminution of the height of the patient, which has already undergone consider- able reduction as a result of the bend- ing of the diaphyses of the tibiae and femora, and the lowering of the heads of the latter, the necks of which become almost horizontal. It is an important point that this softening, this loss of resistance, is accompanied neither by weakness of the limbs nor by fracture. The legs remain strong and in condition to support the weight of the body. They bend and do not break. In the first stages, or some- times from the beginning to the end, the disease is accompanied by pains in the affected bones. They are taken to be those of rheumatism, of chronic periostitis, of syphilis, of gout, of neuralgia, etc. There is never fever, nor anything abnormal in the urine. There is no association with syphilis, or any other constitutional disease Cranium of a man affected with osteitis deformans. J ~ n Natural size. No. 395 A, of the Museum of the CXCept Cancer. lor, in the first five Royal College of Surgeons of London. (After Paget.) ' On a form of Chronic Inflammation of the Bones, Osteitis deformans, vol. lx.) (Medico-cliir. Trans.,