PROSTATOTOMY. 419 APPENDIX. Prostatotomy. In connection with the treatment of hypertrophy of the prostate, I wish to refer to some observations recently made relative to the practice of pros- tatotomy. The class of cases in which this proceeding has already been advantageously employed, includes those in which there is unusual difficulty in introducing the catheter ; in which hemorrhage almost constantly attends the use of this instru- ment ; in which withdrawal of the urine is followed by no sense of relief; and in which the bladder, by the constant presence within it of pus and tenacious mucus, is converted into little else than a chronic abscess-cavity through which urine percolates. These conditions represent types of the disorder which are rapidly fatal. The operation which I have practised1 under these circum- stances, consists in opening the membranous urethra from the perineum, and then, introducing a probe-pointed knife along the prostatic urethra, in making a section of the obstructing portion of the gland in the median line. In doing the operation, it is not desirable to make an opening larger than will admit the index finger from the perineum into the prostatic urethra; such an opening is completely filled up by the drainage-tube that is subse- quently used, and consequently but little fear of hemorrhage need be enter- tained. The drainage-tubes which I am in the habit of employing, after section of the prostate has been effected, are double: that is to say, a soft- rubber catheter is passed into the bladder, and retained within a stiffer, gum- elastic one. There are many advantages connected with this arrangement, as the inner, soft-rubber tube adapts itself to the inequalities about the floor which often exist in bladders that have long suffered from the effects of an obstructing prostate. In this way a sacculated bladder which has been opened from the perineum, as for a lithotomy, may be thoroughly drained. Very considerable importance in the after-treatment is attached to a pro- longed use of the drainage-apparatus, the object being to render the section of the prostate not a temporary one, as after lithotomy, but permanent. Hence I am in the habit of retaining these tubes for six, eight, or even twelve weeks. If after such periods of continuous drainage, on removing the tube from the perineal wound, I find that a soft catheter can be made to enter the bladder easily by the natural route, or if, as sometimes hap- pens, urine forces its way in spite of the perineal tube along the natural passage, I regard these as indications that the object in view has been obtained. The regular passage of the bougie along the whole length of the urethra is continued until the perineal wound has soundly healed, a process which usually takes place rapidly. In offering an explanation of the satis- factory results which have followed this method of treatment, I think that not only may it be found in the means adopted to render the section of the prostate permanent, but further, that something is due to the introduction 1 Proceedings of the International Medical Congress of Copenhagen, 1884.