338 INJURIES ANf) DISEASES OF THE BLADDER AND PROSTATE. Maury’s operation for extroversion of the bladaer. to Mr. Wood’s original communication on the subject. Maury’s operation is thus described by Gross d— A Hap is taken from the perineum and scrotum by carrying a curvilinear incision from the outer third of Poupart’s ligament, across the middle of the perineum, to a cor- responding point on the opposite side ; Fig. 1283. the flap is dissected up carefully, to avoid wounding the testicles, or hernia should the latter be present, until the root of the penis is reached, when that organ is slipped through a small open- ing made for it in the centre of the flap, by which means the urine issues without coming in contact with the wound. A curvilinear incision is then carried across the abdomen, and a short flap dissected up for about an inch; un- der this, the scrotal flap, its cutaneous surface having been vivified, is slid, and attached by several points of a modifi- cation of the tongue and groove suture of Professor Pancoast. (Fig. 1283.) In a recent communication on the subject, Mr. Rushton Parker, of Liverpool,1 2 whilst advocating in principle Wood’s method of operating, lays stress upon certain improvements suggested by Dr. Greig Smith, of Bristol,3 which he considers contributed much to the success of the operation in the cases which he records. These are as follows: (1) The adoption of a pear-shaped or bellows-shaped flap as an anterior lining, not only to the bladder, but also to the simultane- ously completed dorsal aspect of the urethra, and the covering of the latter or urethral portion of the flap with a strip of skin obtained by bring- ing out the penis and prepuce through a hole in the scrotum. (2) The better-planned, and more thoroughly completed attachment of the cover- ing flaps without gaps, and the substitution of “ relaxation-sutures” and interrupted “ edge-su- tures” for hare-lip pins and twisted sutures. (3) The adoption of boracic-acid dressings, whereby decomposition is prevented, and the inevitable urinary infiltration rendered innocuous; conse- quently, primary union being extensively ob- tained, the duration of the treatment is limited to the shortest possible period. In Mr. Parker’s cases, where union by first intention occurred almost completely, the boracic dressings were kept constantly wet and fresh by the use of a bath in which the patient lay throughout the treatment, the bath being so constructed that the hips were kept immersed in warm boracic lotion Drinai for extroversion of the bladder, whilst the limbs and tiunk remained diy. Fig. 1284. 1 Op. cit., p. 365. 2 Liverpool Med.-Chir. Journal, January, 1882. 3 British Med. Journal, February 7 and 28, 1880.