CHONDROMATA OF THE BONES. 981 Chondromata of the Bones. Chondromata are met, with much oftener in bone-tissue than in any other structure. By the name of chondroma are designated t umors made up of more or less abnormal cartilaginous tissue. (Ltieke.) It is proper to separate at once from chondromata certain cartilaginous productions which are formed only on pre-existing cartilages, and to which are given the name of ecchon- droses. Chondroma, properly so called, is never developed at the expense of pre-existing cartilages. (Cornil and Ranvier.) History.—Chondromata were first studied by Cruveilhier,1 and afterward by Muller, in 1838. The works of Vogel, Lebert, Fichte, Paget, Virchow, and Dolbeau, have completed the study of these tumors. In more recent times I would mention the thesis of Walsdorf,2 and that of A. Aubert.3 Pathological Anatomy.—The varieties of bone-chondromata exhibit the struc- ture of the different varieties of cartilage described in man, and besides, there are sometimes found in them anastomosing cells, forming a tissue like that of the cephalic cartilage of cephalopods. Dr. Bonnet writes as follows on this subject:4— Stellate cells are often present in considerable numbers. It is not, indeed, frequent to find them buried in a fundamentally hyaline substance; but the true cartilaginous cells are themselves placed in such variable intercellular substances (hyaline, fibrillary, elastic, mucous), according to the different parts of a single neoplasm under observation, that it is permissible to consider the two forms, stellate and encapsulated, as almost equivalent. These two forms, in enchondroma, play the same part, and replace each other with the greatest ease. Besides, they are not the only forms seen in this kind of tumor. In it may be observed the indifferent embryonic cell, the stellate cell, the fibro-plastic body on the one band ; and, on the other, the whole series of cartilaginous cells, and that in one and the same enchondromatous production. At its appearance, the carti- lage has the embryonic form; at a later period, a hyaline intercellular substance, soft or hard, is secreted between the cells ; these increase in size, assuming different shapes, angular or discoid; this is foetal cartilage. It is only in the adult stage of the cartilage that the fundamental substance is condensed in such a manner as to form a sort of wall with double contour, or capsule, which contains the true cartilaginous cell. Less well-defined forms than the encapsulated may be seen in fibrous and elastic cartilages. M. Ranvier has studied these forms in the cartilaginous tendons of birds, etc. The cartilaginous cells appear as rounded, or rather cylindrical, cellular bodies, arranged in rows between the parallel tendinous bundles, which may and should be considered as the intercellular substance of these bastard cartilages. All these appearances under which the cell of normal cartilage may he seen, may be met with in the cellular element of enchondromatous tumors. An enchondroma is usually divided into lobules, which are separated by con- nective tissue. At the edges of the lobules and of the connective tissue, there are often seen embryonic elements, at the expense of which the forma- tion of cartilage takes place. Among the cells near the connective-tissue bun- dles, a certain number are fusiform; further in toward the centre of the lobules, they are surrounded by a very delicate rudimentary capsule. They are clear, rounded, smaller than the capsules of adult cartilage, and embedded in a fibrillar or soft substance. Finally, the stellate form is very common; but the cartilaginous cells must not be confounded with the cells of myxomatous points which are still much more frequent. (Bonnet.) All those varieties 1 Anatomie Pathologique du Corps Humain, tome ii. 34e livraison, pi. 4 et 5. Paris, 1828; Traite A’Anatomie Pathologique, tome iii. p. 779, et tome v. p. 106. 2 Le chondrome malin. Paris, 1878. 3 These de Lyon, 1882. 4 Thfese de Lyon, 1882.