912 SCROFULO-TUBERCULOUS AND OTHER STRUCTURAL DISEASES OF BONES. they undergo caseous degeneration, obliterate the bloodvessels which they cross, and cause consecutively necrosis and caseation of the anaemic bone- tissue, or of the medulla, when this is surrounded with granulations. Ac- cording to these authors, the sequestra are not due to condensing osteitis, as Nekton believed, but to ischaemia of the parts. The continent granulations may give rise to both forms of tuberculosis described by that surgeon. As to the hypertrophy of the bone-trabeculae, so peculiar to infiltration, according to Nelaton, MM. Cornil and Ranvier say that usually they undergo neither condensation nor rarefaction. They also call attention to the fact that the caseous melting down of the medulla does not extend to the bone- corpuscles, the nuclei of which become irregular in outline, it is true, but are not surrounded by fatty granulations; a characteristic which, they say, “permits the caseous transformation which supervenes upon confluent tuber- cles to be distinguished from that which accompanies caries.”1 Quite recently MM. Kiener and Poulet have taken up this study, with the modern views.2 They have demonstrated the presence of the tuberculous follicle in the depths of the bone-tissue. In their preparations one may fol- low the whole course of follicular development. The cells of the inner wall of the capillaries of the diseased region hypertrophy, undergo hyaline degene- ration, run together, and end in the formation of a giant-cell which fills the capillary. The pathological irritation exerting its influence also on the other tunics of the vessels, the latter are infiltrated with epithelioid cells, and with embryonic cells. The follicle is then formed, and the vessel is closed. (Fig. 1446.) I give here some of the drawings of these authors. In Fig. 1447, M. Fig. 1446. Fig. 1447. Section of a tuberculous bone. A, tuberculous folli- cle; B, section of a vessel, in which is seen hypertro- phy of the endothelial cells; C, trabeculae of bone. (After Charles Nelaton.) Section through the periphery of a patch of tuberculous infiltration. A, sub-periosteal layer of bone depend- ent on distant irritation. Sometimes it is very thick, and forms a true shell around the sequestrum. This is seen, especially in children, in the region of the phalanges (spina ventosa) ; B, old bone ; C, ridge of eliminative rarefying osteitis, separating the infil- trated and necrosed part from the normal tissue ; D, the sequestrum with its hypertrophied trabeculae. (After Charles Nelaton.) 1 Cornil et Ranvier, Manual d’Histologie Path., 1869. 2 Kiener et Poulet, Archives de Pliysiologie, 1880.