908 SCROFULO-TUBERCULOUS AND OTHER STRUCTURAL DISEASES OF BONES. cartilage and extended to the diaphysis from the epiphysis, or conversely ; or when it opens into a joint, passing through the articular cartilage; or when, finally, it destroys the cortical layer and appears and develops under the periosteum. In the last case, the process is accompanied by periostitis with more or less abundant periosteal bone-proliferation; and in case of penetra- tion of a joint, an arthritis arises, sometimes acute, but more often fungous and chronic. But the distinctive characteristic of encysted tubercle is the slight degree of reaction which it sets up around it, its course being so slow and slug- gish, that it may not reveal itself by any symptom during life. On making sections of all the bones in autopsies, tubercles are sometimes met with (or cysts resulting from their spontaneous cure) in persons whom no one would suspect of being likely to present them. M. Ranvier has also made the remark that tuberculous granulations, even massed in islets, may occupy extensive areas of the medulla without it being possible to suspect their existence, except from a slight discoloration of the tissue; the microscope alone enables us to affirm their presence. Around an encysted tubercle the bone-tissue usually presents only a very slight injection, describing a reddish circle two or three millimetres in width. In children the spongy tissue being red, this hyperaemic circle cannot be recog- nized. In the adult, as in children, the cavity does not contain any seques- trum, and is formed by the destruction, and not by displacement of the bone- tissue. The same is true, it will be understood, of the cartilaginous and fibrous tissues which the tubercle encounters in its development. The dimensions of the tubercle-cavity vary from five or six millimetres in diameter, up to two or three centimetres. Encysted tubercles are not generally seen in large numbers. Encysted tubercle is not found only in the crude state; it may also be found softened. At the end of a variable time, sometimes several years, the mass becomes softened, without or with inflammation. In the latter case, the tuberculous matter will be found mixed with a greater or less number of pus-corpuscles and the peripheral irritation will be more considerable. May we not consider the forms of osteitis which are called neuralgic, or painful, to be tuberculous bone-abscesses of this kind, strangulated by the resistance of the walls of the cavity? When a tuberculous abscess opens into a joint, it sets up a more or less acute arthritis; when it opens on the surface of the bone, it causes a collec- tion of fluid under the periosteum, or under the aponeurosis, which insinuates itself in the cellular interstices of the organs, until it arrives under the integu- ments and perforates them. I have already spoken of the periostosis, which, according to Relaton, in the extremities of the long bones opposes an ever- increasing barrier to the progress of an abscess on the side of the periosteum, and compels it to travel in the direction of the joint. All osseous and tuberculous abscesses do not go on in this way until they hurst externally. Ron-inflammatory softening of the tuberculous material may be followed by its complete absorption. Sometimes there remains in the cavity nothing but limpid serum. Such is the etiology of some cysts in the hones. Ossifluent abscesses resulting from the softening of encysted tuber- cle do not always rupture; they may be absorbed and leave only a cord attached to the bone as a sign of their former presence. The classical type of ossifluent abscess is the abscess by congestion of Pott’s disease of the spine. We know, from the researches of Volkmann and of Lannelongue, their mode of progress, which consists in successive invasion of the connective tissues by tubercle. The membrane is formed of proliferated and hardened connec- tive tissue, it is crowded with tubercles which destroy it little by little as