242 URINARY CALCULUS. The evacuating tubes used in litholapaxy are curved and straight. Thomp- son and Guyon prefer the former, Bigelow the latter, but all lithotritists use either, as occasion requires. The tubes are made of thin.metal, the eye so shaped as to scrape the urethra as little as possible on the way in or out, and, theoretically, not to catch fragments which are too large to pass the tube. The former end is attained very satisfactorily, the latter not so. I have not yet seen a tube with an eye which does not catch and hold frag- ments too large to pass the tube, and I have tried them all. Fig. 1240 shows the curved tube in profile. The straight tube (Fig. 1241) is identical as to its eye and its general construction with the curved tube. These tubes are introduced as if they were curved or straight sounds, except that the straight tube may sometimes be twisted or rotated in through the fixed curve of the urethra where direct pushing will not succeed in making it pass. On account of the tendency of the eyes of all these tubes to catch fragments too large to pass through the tube itself, I have devised another form of straight tube, the eye of which cannot clog. When the eye of a tube does clog, if the fragment impacted in it is hard and angular, it may happen that water will not dislodge the fragment. No matter how forcibly the bulb is compressed, the fragment will stick in its place, and will be withdrawn with the tube, unless the operator is willing to uncouple the evacuator and push a solid stylet of some sort down to the extremity of the tube, while the end of the latter is still in the bladder. This manoeuvre ex- poses the patient and Iris bed to a wetting, so that the surgeon is tempted to pull the tube out, charged as it is with a barb at its extremity. I have sebn the roof of the urethra quite sharply scratched on more than one occasion in this way. Once I saw a stone, so caught in a tube, drawn forward until it caught at the point of physiological narrowing of the pen- dulous urethra, in the third inch from the meatus. Here it stuck, and it was impossible to move the tube either way, or to dislodge the stone even with a solid stylet. Finally, by the exercise of very considerable force, the tube, still holding the stone, was dragged out—a manoeuvre the reverse of surgical. With the aim of averting any possible impaction of a fragment in the eye of the tube, I have used a straight tube of thin metal open at both ends (Fig. 1242). A wooden obturator makes its introduction reasonably easy, and Fig. 1242. a washer on the obturator allows the latter to be withdrawn without leakage beyond the stopcock, which, being turned, keeps the bed dry until the washing bottle has been fitted to the tube. Such a tube in some cases renders valuable service, particularly in evacuating a last fragment, or in washing out a small stone recently descended from the kidney. Anything which once enters cannot fail to pass, and anything which lodges in its vesi- cal opening will be immediately dislodged as the fibres of the vesical neck close over "the tube during its withdrawal. It delivers very promptly to the washing bottle, but has this defect, that in order to make it functionate to its best advantage its vesical end must be drawn close down to the neck of