378 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE BLADDER AND PROSTATE. Before proceeding further, it will be proper to consider, (1) the circum- stances which explain non-interference with micturition in some cases of prostatic hypertrophy,(2) the changes which take place in the prostatic urethra as a consequence of prostatic hypertrophy, with special reference to the expulsion of urine from the bladder. Inquiry in these two directions will be found not unfruitful in leading to conclusions which will be of value when the treatment of this affection comes to be considered. It may be remembered that one of the pleasures connected with pathological inquiries, such as this, lies in the endeavor to discover nature’s ways and means of making provision against the arrest of function which appears inseparable from the course of certain structural diseases. (1) From the examination of a considerable number of large prostates which caused no obstruction to micturition, I have observed that there are at least two conditions which may explain the absence of such obstruction. One is where the hypertrophy takes place mainly in the direction of the rectum, in which the relations and dimensions of the prostatic urethra are unaltered:— Some years ago I was examining an elderly gentleman for hemorrhoids, when I accidentally discovered that the prostate was considerably enlarged towards the rectum. I passed a catheter into the bladder, but could find no obstruction. Not long after- wards this gentleman died from heart disease, and post-mortem examination showed that, although the lower segment of the prostate was considerably enlarged, the prostatic urethra was unaltered. This patient had never had any symptom of impeded micturition. The other condition referred to is, where the prostate as it enlarges leaves channels between the hypertrophic masses, along which urine finds its way uninterruptedly. This tabulated form of hypertrophy is by no means uncom- mon. It is referred to by Dr. Messer1 as a condition which will serve to “explain the occasional absence of symptoms of obstruction, in cases where the prostate is known to be considerably enlarged.” (2) I will next proceed to consider the changes brought about in the pros- tatic urethra by hypertrophy of the gland, as far as they relate to the obstruc- tion of micturition. As already stated, enlargement of the prostate towards the rectum may take place without altering the relations of the canal passing through it. Hence there is no interference with micturition, nor obstacle to the introduction of the catheter into the bladder; this is shown in the Fig. 1288. Fig. 1289. Section of normal prostate. Enlargement of prostate towards rectum. 1 Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. xliii.