763 GASTRO-HYSTEROTOMY, OR LAPARO-HYSTEROTOMY. tions. Prof. Stoltz, and Prof. Kilian, of Bonn, eacli saved 4 out of 7 women. Dr. Ludwig Winckel, of Gummersbach, near Cologne, and afterwards of Miil- heim, operated 13 times, and saved 7 women and 10 children. He lias been credited with 17 cases; but 4, with 3 saved, were certainly laparotomies after ruptured uterus, as shown by the record which he has sent me. He has pro- bably operated in private practice more frequently than any other surgeon, not excepting Hoebeke, whose statements require explanation. The general mortality in the United States has been 60 per cent., and in Great Britain 81 per cent., including operations upon moribund subjects. Causes of Fatality.—No one cause, and notably so in this country, is as potent a factor in determining a fatal issue in any case, as delay in operating;. Long labor, or, in the cases of rachitic dwarfs, a few hours of labor, will exhaust a patient and favor the production of peritonitis, septicaemia, uterine inertia, and shock. If the uterus is sound, and its muscular power active by reason of not having been wasted by continued effort, it will contract at once when the foetus is removed, the placenta will be squeezed off with but little bleeding, and there will be only a moderate risk of post-partum uterine relaxation or hemorrhage. Gaping of the uterine wound, with its accompanying risk of the escape of lochia into the abdominal cavity, is less common after early than after late operations, whence the greater importance of the uterine suture in operations of the latter class. When the foetus is dead and putrid, even if the uterine wound be secured by multiple sutures against leakage, there is danger of septicaemia from the absorption of septic matters by the placental surface, or by the muscular portion of the uterine wound, which gapes toward the uterine cavity and exposes a raw surface to its noxious contents. This form of risk was demonstrated in a case which I saw lately, which terminated fatally in twenty-six hours from septic poisoning. The patient had been long in labor; the foetus was dead and putrid ; there had been a severe ante-partum hemorrhage ; the tissues of the uterus had been changed by fibroid degeneration ; and, although the peritoneal portion of the uterine wound was healed under the sutures, so that no fluid had escaped through it, there had been fatal absorption by the muscular portion of the wound, or by the sinuses of the placental site. The most common cause of death after gastro-hysterotomy is peritonitis, and the next in frequency, septicaemia, the two being often confounded. Shock and exhaustion are not uncommon after a prolonged labor. Hemor- rhage is very rarely a cause of death, and will be less so when the uterine wound is treated with multiple sutures. Phlegmasia dolens very rarely results from the operation, as does also intestinal obstruction from adhesions resulting from circumscribed peritonitis. Modes of Operating.—I have no space to enter upon an account of the numerous past methods, with their varying lines of abdominal incision, and it will be sufficient to enumerate those which commence with a section through the linea alba. As country cases much more frequently recover than city ones, and p>rivate than hospital operations; it will not be as neces- sary in the former as in the latter to carry out fully the antiseptic system of treatment. To avoid delay is of much more consequence in the country than is the securing of a full corps of assistants, such as are required in operat- ing antiseptically. An early use of the knife, in the country, has generally saved the patient, even when there have been no antiseptics or uterine sutures, and no anfesthetic or drainage employed, and when, if any, there has been but one medical assistant present. It is in cities, and especially in hospitals, that the improved precautionary methods, to be hereafter explained, are par-