INJURIES OF THE RECTUM. 99 rately ; at any rate, nothing would be gained by the attempt, so that they may be simply cut through together cleanly on a director. The large intestine can be recognized by the absence, or at all events shortness, of mesentery, which conveys a feeling of fixity to the hand, and by the mesen- tery being attached to the left side of the intestine, as well as by the saccu- lated appearance of the latter. The other distinctive signs of the large intestine—its longitudinal bands and appendices epiploicse—are generally too ill marked in the new-born child to be of diagnostic use. When the intestine has been found, it must be closely attached to the edges of the wound, peri- toneal surface to peritoneal surface, with fine sutures, and then a very small opening made into it. Nelaton recommended an opening of less than a third of an inch. When this operation of emergency has been successfully performed, should an attempt be made to establish a normal outlet by passing down a bougie through the wound in the intestine into the blind rectum, and directing it towards the perineal wound ? I think not, for the following reason : A very thorough search has already been made from below, which has proved fruit- less. Therefore there is strong reason to assume that the rectum terminates within the peritoneal cavity, and that its cul-de-sac is covered by peritoneum. At least so it has proved in several cases in which this procedure has been .attempted, but has resulted in acute peritonitis and death. In those cases, in the female, in which the rectum communicates with the vagina, and has no other outlet, the treatment indicated is as follows : If the bowels can be properly relieved through the opening, the surgeon may wait until the child is six months old, when it will be better able to bear the ope- ration, which will also be rendered easier on account of the parts being larger. If, however, it is a question of urgency, through the opening being too small for the passage of meconium, a bent probe should be passed through the fistula and directed towards the perineum, and then cut down upon. The prognosis in these cases is favorable. [If the rectum, in the male, open into the bladder or urethra, the best that oan be done is to introduce a grooved director or small staff, and cut down upon this as in the operation of perineal section, thus forming a common cloaca for the escape of both fecal matter and urine. The opening must be kept patulous by subsequent dilatation. If the gut open on the surface of the body, at a distance from the normal position of the anus, it will usually • be proper to decline an operation, and merely dilate the opening so as to prevent fecal accumulation.] In conclusion, it must be mentioned that, although one would naturally suppose a speedy death to be the inevitable consequence of a rectum with no outlet, unrelieved by surgery, yet several cases are recorded in which periodic fecal vomiting has prevented such an issue. [Injuries of the Rectum. Wounds of the Rectum.—Incised, lacerated, contused, punctured, and gunshot wounds are all met with in the rectum, but, provided that they are uncomplicated, usually heal without difficulty, and present no points calling for special notice. If the lesion involve the vagina or bladder, recto-vaginal or recto-vesical fistula may follow, and a plastic operation may ultimately be required. If the peritoneum be opened, in a deep rectal wound, peritonitis is, of course, apt to ensue, though not inevitable, and death may result under these circumstances. Hemorrhage from a rectal wound should be controlled by the application of ligatures, if the bleeding points can be seen, but if not,