812 OVARIAN AND UTERINE TUMORS. through the breaking down of the tumor, which is always a critical affair for the patient, since it involves risks of fresh hemorrhage and septic absorp- tion ; through ulceration of the capsule and gradual enucleation of the growth ; and through extrusion of the tumor, if pedunculated, into the vagina or rectum. Spontaneous enucleation is exceedingly rare; pedunculation and extrusion of the tumor into the vagina are quite commonly met with. Treatment.—This may be either dietetic, medical, or surgical. In the matter of diet, it has been found by Cutter1 that farinaceous food and milk contribute to the growth of fibromata; while a strict regimen of meat and wine, or with the slight modifications allowed in diabetic diet-lists, will in many cases diminish their volume. My own experience in a limited number of cases has confirmed this statement; but the enforcement of such a regimen is not always successful or even practicable; and, if adopted, it should be combined with a careful employment of medical treatment also. Here there is only one drug—ergot—which at all deserves our confidence; and, instead of acting directly upon the tumor, its influence is chiefly through the unstriped muscular tissue of the womb.2 It is best used hypodermically in the form of Hildebrandt’s or Merck’s ergotine, of which from three to ten grains, dissolved in water, or in water and glycerine, may be injected every second or third day. To this solution chloral has been added to make it keep better; but in any case it soon decomposes, or becomes inert, and should often be made up afresh. Ilildebrandt’s injections were made in the hypogastrium, but the hip is now generally preferred, and if the fluid be thrown deep into the gluteal muscle, or the thick subcutaneous tissue, neither abscess nor erysi- pelatous inflammation need be feared. This mode of treatment must be con- tinued for several months; and, just before each menstruation, the injections should be increased in frequency and thoroughness. When given otherwise than hypodermically—in pill, fluid extract, or suppository—ergot is indeci- sive, and usually disappoints our expectations. In conjunction with rigid diet, Hr. Ephraim Cutter, of Boston, used the galvanic current, which was passed into the tumor through strong steel needle- electrodes ; and in 1880 he reported to the Boston Gynaecological Society a series of 50 cases, in which 4 patients had been quite cured, 32 improved, and 4 had died through this treatment. In five cases of subperitoneal fibroid—all in private practice—in which I have instituted this treatment, not one has seemed to be benefited by the electrolysis. In another case in the care of one of my colleagues, at the Woman’s Hospital, hysterectomy has just been performed, after repeated and painstaking efforts to remove a multiple sub- serous fibroid by electricity. In the future it may, perhaps, be differently applied with better results. The surgical treatment of fibromata naturally divides itself into procedures for the removal of the tumor through the vagina or through the abdominal walls. Leaving the subject of laparotomy, including hysterectomy, for future consideration, the first of these methods will now be described. This is multiple, and consists of, (1) Avulsion; (2) Ecrasement; (3) Enuclea- tion ; (4) Gradual traction by Emmet’s method. Avulsion is effected by steady and forcible traction with forceps or stout tenacula, which sometimes tear loose the attachments of a sessile tumor or break the pedicle of a polypus. If the uterine attachments should not yield,' two fingers are, if possible, passed into the womb, and separation aided by 1 Amer. Journ. of Obstetrics, October, 1877. 2 Hence it is least applicable to subperitoneal fibroids.