INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. 594 * Holmes’s System of Surgery, 3d ed., vol. iii. p. 471. nocturnal emissions. A specimen of semen furnished by this patient showed, when examined under tlie microscope, a large number of spermatozoa to all appearances normal. Godard holds that when both testicles are absent, the individual does not emit any semen, and that when both testicles are hidden, the patient, though not impotent, is sterile. The presence of one normal testicle in the scrotum is sufficient for the propa- gation of the species. A powerful working man presented himself at King’s College Hospital with both his testicles retained in the inguinal regions. On each side, a process of tunica vaginalis like the empty finger of a glove passed through the external abdominal ring. The right testicle was in the canal, the left passed readily backwards and forwards through the external ring. His sexual power caused him no anxiety ; his emissions were copious, but no spermatozoa could be found on microscopic examination. He applied to be cured of a slight rupture on the left side, which could not be treated by truss-pressure owing to the presence of the testicle. The microscopic appearances presented by an undescendecl testicle are seen in the illustration (Plate XXXV., Fig. 7), which shows a fibrous, thickened condition of the tubuli seminiferi, and a total want of development of the epithelial cells which elaborate the spermatozoa. An undescended testicle may be attacked by orchitis, attended with severe symptoms such as pain, swelling, vomiting, and constipation. If suppuration take place, the inflam- mation may extend to the peritoneum, and a fatal peritonitis may ensue. A testicle in the groin is very liable to injury from blows and muscular pressure. Diagnosis.—As a rule these cases are easily diagnosed, as the scrotum is more or less undeveloped on the side or sides on which the testicle is wanting; if one testicle only be absent, and the penis be properly developed, it will appear to be larger than normal owing to the.small size of the scrotum. An ordinary case resembles one of bubonocele, or one of encysted hydrocele of the cord. The swelling is hard, and shoots backwards and forwards, being easily pushed- into the inguinal canal but reappearing as readily; in pressing the tumor, testicular pain is complained of, and the patient is often aware that there is something unusual in the formation of the parts. The impulse pecu- liar to a rupture is wanting unless a hernia be also present. When a retained testicle becomes the seat of inflammation, or of a morbid deposit, acute symp- toms may arise, and the case may then much resemble one of strangulated hernia, as there is a good deal of pain, rendering the examination difficult and imperfect, with vomiting, constipation, and constitutional disturbance. There will still be the history to guide one, and the absence of the testicle on the painful side; tlie local symptoms may be more and the constitutional symp- toms less severe than in cases of hernia; the bowels in such a case can be cleared by enemata, and an anodyne fomentation will relieve the local symp- toms. An inflamed testicle in the groin is liable to be opened as a bubo, but a little care will prevent the error. Mr. Jacobson1 narrates the following successful case:— The patient was aged 19, and had the left testicle retained in the groin. When fifteen months old a tumor appeared for the first time in the inguinal region, with sickness and syncope. The attack passed off, and he did not wear a truss. The swelling reappeared when lie was 11, and he wore a truss from 14 years of age until a few days before his admission, when, not having seen a swelling for some years, he had left it off. When seen the pain was intense ; a hard, defined swelling existed in the left groin, without impulse when the patient coughed. The abdomen was tense and full, and coils of distended intestine could be seen through the parietes. Constipation had existed for forty-eight hours, but there was no vomiting. Mr. Howse dissected down, with antiseptic precau-