97 MALFORMATIONS OF TI1E RECTUM AND ANUS. spinal cord. During defecation this centre is inhibited by the action of the will, by emotions, or by other nervous events (Foster.) • Lymphatics.—Those from the skin around the anus pass to the glands of the groin ; those from the rectum proper communicate with the glands in the hollow of tlje sacrum and the lumbar glands. So that in fissure or ulcer of the anus, the inguinal glands, and in cancer the pelvic and lumbar glands, will be affected. Relations of Rectum.—The relation of the peritoneum to the rectum is by far the most important, and I will therefore begin with its consideration. The question is, how far down the rectum does the peritoneum extend ? how much of the rectum can be excised without running the risk of laying open the peritoneal cavity? I have myself removed five inches of bowel from a male, without even seeing the peritoneum. In a female patient on whom I ope- rated, Douglas’s pouch was only two inches from the anus. In another case, that of a male, three and a half inches of rectum were cut off, the peritoneal cavity was thereby opened, and a coil of intestine protruded. From these examples it will be seen that no hard and fast line can be drawn as to the distance down the rectum which the peritoneum extends. Still, bearing in mind the variations which have occurred in the practice of a single individ- ual, three inches may be taken as a fair average when the bladder is fairly distended with urine; a little less if it be empty, a little more if it be fully distended. The upper portion of the rectum, which terminates at the third vertebra of the sacrum, is surrounded by peritoneum; it has, in fact, a meso- rectum, which allows it considerable play. Thus Mr. Davy, by means of his lever in the rectum, easily compresses the right common iliac artery. The other parts in relation with the rectum are, behind, the pyriformis muscle, sacral plexus of nerves, and branches of the internal iliac artery, and in front, in the male, the bladder and coils of small intestine; in the female, the uterus takes the place of the bladder. The middle portion of the rectum begins at the third vertebra of the sacrum, and ends at the tip of the coccyx. It has behind it the sacrum and coccyx, and in front, at its upper limit, the peritoneal fold of Douglas, and then the base of the bladder, vesieulie seminales, and prostate gland. The lower portion has in front of it the membranous part of the urethra, separated by the triangular ligament on either side of the levator ani, and it is surrounded at its termination by the external sphincters. Malformations of the Rectum and Anus. As my personal experience of these errors in development has not been greater than that of any hospital surgeon not especially devoting himself to rectal surgery, I intend to treat this subject briefly, referring those among my readers who desire further information to Dr. Wm, Bodenhamer’s ex- haustive treatise on the “ Etiology, Pathology, and Treatment of the Con- genital Malformations of the Rectum and Anus.” The classification which I propose to adopt has, if no other merit, that ot simplicity. I shall divide all these cases into four divisions, as follows:—■ I. Those in which the anus is closed, the rectum being either partially or wholly deficient. II. Those in which the anus exists in its normal condition, but opens into a cul-de-sac, the rectum being partially or wholly deficient. III. Those in which a membranous septum, like a hymen, or a band of VOL. vi.—7