151 CAUSES OF STONE FORMATION. that the prevention of stone becomes partly possible through the prevention of the local conditions which constitute the soil in which it is sown and grows.” Orel states that two-thirds of all calculi “ are in bulk composed of, or start from, concretions of uric acid.” His experiments with colloids and oxalate of lime lead him to believe that to mould oxalate of lime into calculi requires a denser colloid than usually exists in vesical urine. He therefore believes that the beginnings of oxalic calculi usually occur “in the recesses of the kidney among less diluted colloids.” H. Vandyke Carter1 believes that it is during some febrile condition, or in connection with some irritation along the urinary tract, that calculi origin- ate; the colloid, mucus, pus, albumen, fibrin, and blood being present coin- cidently with an excess of the saline ingredient out of which the nucleus is to be composed. He says:— “ I have noticed in the interstices of a nucleus, composed of oxalate-of-lime spheroids and blood, isolated collections of rhomb-crystals, such as experiment shows will appear in a firm colloid in which oxalic acid and lime are caused to meet, and I venture to suppose that in this case a small mass of mucus served as the medium.” In his micro- scopic researches Carter has found that “ calculi are habitually surrounded by a thin layer of mucus in which goes on the process of molecular coalescence resulting in the addition of fresh layers.”2 Richness of the Urine in Solid Ingredients.—Excess of solids alone in the urine does not necessarily give rise to stone. Ultzmann3 gives nearly the whole credit in calculous formation to the amount of solids in the urine, notably uric acid. In his investigations he found that about 94 per cent, of all stones had nuclei of uric acid. The element, he believes, which influences stone formation, is the shape of the uric acid crystals. This lie found to be modified by the degree of acidity of the solution in which the crystals were deposited, and consequently he assumes that the fan-shaped, sheaf-like masses of pointed, acicular crystals, are the obvious starting points of stone. This assumption is in direct opposition to the conclusions adopted by Ord after the demonstration of experiment. Ebstein4 gives clinical strength to Ord’s theories in quoting Frerichs as finding in the tubules of the adult kidney, gloinerules of urate of sodium, and in a case of Bright’s disease amorphous fibrinous coagula witlrnodules of brown uric-acid crystals the size of a pin’s head—evidently rounded by the colloid, and not sheaf-like. Rounded concretions of uric acid of varying size are not infrequently found in diseased kidneys, in cysts and dilated urinary tubules. That an excess of uric acid in the urine is the chief cause of stone in .infan- tile life, is doubtless true. The uric-acid infarction of Virchow is a pheno- menon nearly constant in the kidneys of young infants. It has been found in infants who have never breathed, but is often absent in such cases, while it is most frequently met with in the kidneys of infants who have lived several days.5 These long lines of reddish gritty substance in the kidney-tubules are believed by Ultzmann to be composed in part of urate of ammonium, and in part of urate of sodium. This statement of their exact nature is not uniformly accepted, but all agree that uric acid is a main ingre- dient in the infarctions, which occupy the straight urinary tubules, filling them up and giving the pyramids an appearance as if they had been injected. Ultzmann examined the brown dust passed out from these infarctions upon 1 The Microscopic Structure and Mode of Formation of Urinary Calculi. London, 1873. 2 Op. cit., page 40. 3 Ueber Harnsteinbildung. Wiener Klinik, 1875. 4 Ziemssen’s Handbuch d. spec. Pathologie und Tlierapie, Bd. ix. H. 2, S. 208. 5 Ebstein, loc. cit., S. 216.