PREPARATION OF MILITARY SURGEONS FOR FIELD DUTIES. 1127 the men by daily ablutions at stated times, and by the airing of their blankets on deck when the weather will permit. In all his duties relating to the sanitary care of troops, the medical officer’s position is now well defined,1 and he is officially recognized as a sanitary officer whose recommendations, if not concurred in by his immediate com- mander, must be submitted to higher authority. It will, however, seldom occur that a judicious recommendation of measures for preserving or improv- ing the health of troops will not be willingly adopted. Among these measures one of the most important will be the issue of fresh bread and fresh or preserved vegetables. The medical officer should also frequently inspect the cooking of the regiment, and see to it that the cooking is not done by squads or individuals, as was so often the case early in the late war, but by companies. He may be of great service in this particular, for the great destroyer of armies is diarrhoea caused mainly by bad or improperly cooked food. A useful guide to the proper preparation of the soldier’s ration, together with many simple devices for field-cooking, may be found in the small work, “ Manual for Army Cooks,” published by authority of the Secre- tary of War in 1883. The following directions for cooking in camp were published to the Army of the Potomac in 1862, at the instance of Surgeon Letterman, U. S. A., Medical Director. They are eminently practical, and will prove of the high- est utility:— Directions for Cooking in Camp. The importance of soup as a diet for troops is not sufficiently apprehended except by veteran soldiers, those of experience in the field. It cannot be too highly esteemed, and should be used to a much greater extent than it is. Bean soup, when properly made, is one of the best that can be used ; when improperly made, one of the worst. The beans must be washed, steeped in water over night, put on the fire at reveille, and boiled slowly for six hours ; a piece of pork, say one ration for three men, put in three hours before dinner ; this, eaten with a little pepper and vinegar, makes a wholesome and palatable dish. The cooking is everything ; if not well done, it is positively injurious ; if well done, it is wholesome. The great principle in making soup is that it must be boiled slowly and for a long time ; it cannot be boiled too much. In making beef soup all the bones should be used, together with half rations of beef, rice, and desiccated and fresh vegetables, with salt and pepper ; the desiccated vegetables should be steeped in water for two hours, and boiled with the soup for three hours ; the rice should be added, after having been washed, half an hour before the soup is served ; the beef must first be put in cold water, and the soup kept at a low boil for five hours. Beef should not in any case be used for cooking until cold. Hard bread will be more pala- table and more easy of digestion if placed in the ashes until thoroughly heated ; it can also be improved by breaking it in pieces an inch or two square and soaking it thoroughly in warm water, then placing it in a frying pan with a few slices of pork, and cooking for five minutes, stirring it, that all may be cooked alike. Such portions of beef as are not used in making soup should be cut in pieces about the size of a hen’s egg, and, with half a ration of potatoes and a small-sized onion cut in slices, to one man, and half a ration of desiccated vegetables previously soaked in cold water for an hour, with a few small pieces of pork, adding salt and pepper, with water sufficient to cover well the ingredients, and stewed slowly for three hours, will make an excellent dish. Beef that is not used thus should be cooked on coals or held before them on a stick or fork, and no salt or pepper put on until cooked ; the salt put on before cooking only assists in abstracting the juices of the meat, and in making it dry and hard when cooked. The secret in using the desiccated vegetables is in having them thoroughly cooked. The want of this has given rise to a prejudice against them which is unfounded ; it is 1 See General Order 125, War Department, A. G. 0., Nov. 17, 1874; and Paragraph 2315, Army Regulations, 1881.