1140 APPENDIX. the dead, giving them a Christian burial by the presence of a chaplain to officiate and attend to the funeral obsequies. The graves are marked by a head-board, written or inscribed on which are the name, rank, company, and regiment of the deceased. His effects are preserved, and at a convenient time disposed of according to the requirements of the army regulations. The surgeon’s duties consist, likewise, in making out provision returns and drawing from the commissary of subsistence a sufficient number of rations for the sick and wounded, as well as for the hospital attendants present. He should see to it that an abundant supply of chloroform, stimulants, beef-stock, blankets, bed-sacks, bandages, dressings, shirts, drawers, and socks is on hand to meejt almost any emergency that may occur. When the sick and wounded are ordered to be sent to the “depot hospital,” a list of them will be made out complete, which, when approved by the medical director of the corps, will be sent with the medical officer who accompanies them. A proper entry of the disposition of these will be made in the register. The supervision of the hospital- fund made from the savings devolves upon the surgeon in charge. He will keep a correct account of it, and authorize the purchase from it of such delicacies as are needed for the comfort of the more serious cases in the hospital. The surgeon in charge of the hospital is immediately subject to the orders of the surgeon-in-chief of the division, and to such other orders as may come through him from higher authority medical director of corps and army. His reports should be made through the same channel, also his requisitions for medical supplies, requests for details, etc., and in fact all communications whatever, except property returns, which go directly to the depart- ment of the Surgeon-General. The following is a list of reports, requisitions, etc., made by the surgeon in charge of the hospital: A weekly report, monthly report, report of sick and wounded, certificates of death, requisitions for medical and hospital stores, morning reports, etc. The following is a list of the books and registers kept on hand: Morning report book, register, prescription book, case book, letter and order book. Duties of the Medical Recorder of a Division Hospital—(1) During a battle the names of all wounded admitted to the hospital are carefully entered in the prescribed forms : Lists of wounded, giving rank, company, regiment and corps ; also the nature of the missile or weapon causing the injury, when wounded, its nature' (slight or severe), and the treatment pursued in each case. On this form are also entered all amputations and other operations, and deaths. After an engagement is over, a classified return of wounds and injuries is prepared from this list. (2) At the operating table an assistant prepares all specimens of interest for preservation in a specimen jar. Here, likewise, the name and designation of the patient is noted down, with a full detail of the injury and the operation performed, with the name and rank of the operator. When the specimen is ready to be deposited in the jar, it is labelled, and the number on the label written opposite the patient’s name. As soon as possible afterwards, a complete list is made of all the operations, during the engagement, giving, as it were, a history of each case, the number opposite the patient’s name corresponding with the number of the specimen in the jar. After a battle, a report of aggregate strength of men and names of medical officers present for duty is also made out. Duties of the Attending or Prescribing Surgeon of a Division Hospital.—1. To visit his ward regularly twice each day, or as often as the condition of his patients may require. 2. To examine and make proper diagnosis of patients as they may be re- ported to him, either for wounds or disease ; to make and keep a correct register of all patients, with their treatment, and daily to report them to the surgeon in charge of the hospital. 3. To prescribe suitable remedies and to see that they are regularly adminis- tered by the attendants. 4. To inspect the diet of the men and see that proper food is given them. 5. To attend strictly to the sanitary condition of his ward and surround- ings, and compel those whose duty it may be to remove everything offensive or detri- mental to health. 6. To assist in all surgical operations, or operate, as he may be required by the surgeon assigned to that duty. 7. To see that the men under his care are as comfortable as circumstances will admit. Duties of the Operating Surgeon—1. The operating surgeon shall select steady and reliable attendants, give them clear and explicit instructions relative to their re- spective duties, and assign to each his proper place. 2. He shall see that all the necessary appliances are at hand, required in performing operative surgery, that the in-