980 TUMOES OF THE BONES. with MM. Gosselin and Legouest, that they undergo a stage of arrest and even of retrogression, at the age of about'twenty-five years. These are benign tumors, and usually do not recur after complete ablation, never implicating the lymphatic glands, and not becoming generalized, but being susceptible of undergoing certain transformations. Thus, in a young patient operated upon a number of times by M. Ollier, according to his method, for a fibrous naso-pharyngeal polypus, the tumor, after a number of recurrences, underwent a telangiectatic, aneurismal transformation. On ausculting the corresponding cheek, a strong blowing sound was perceived. These neoplasms are grave only from their size, and from the symptoms which they determine on account of the regions in which they are found. (These symptoms are treated .of in studying naso-pharyngeal polypi.1) The only rational treatment of bone-fibromata is extirpation. Myxomata of the Bones. Myxomata of the bones are very rare, and often the myxomatous tissue exists only in mixed tumors, especially in certain myxo-chondromata and myxo-sarcomata. Volkmann admits that myxomata of bone-tissue arise in the centres of the bones. Cornil and Ranvier consider them as periosteal, and as capable of bringing about absorption of the bone at their point of im- plantation, and thus of penetrating to the centre of the medullary canal. According to these authors, it is easy to confound this neoplastic mucous tissue with the gelatinous-looking medulla of the bones of cachectic patients. Pure myxoma of the bones is a soft tumor, easily broken up. It presents nodosities, composed of several lobes, and of trabeculfe belonging to the pre-existing tissue. The color is clear gray, whitish, or pink, and some- times the gelatinous appearance is very marked. Virchow, who considers these tumors as starting from the medulla, says that they are for a time enveloped in a shell of bone, which afterward disappears. They are most fre- quently met with in the maxillae. In such cases the growths are often mixed neoplasms, myxomatous chondromata. This was the case in a young man upon whom, in my service at the Croix-Rousse hospital, I practised resection of the right upper jaw, and found a chondroma the whole centre of which was mucous or colloid. The diagnosis of myxoma from chondroma and sar- coma is almost impossible in many eases. The absence of cutaneous ulcera- tion and of glandular invasion, and the course of the affection, furnish, however, valuable diagnostic signs. Myxomata of the bones are benign tumors, which do not become generalized; but they have a great tendency to local recurrence. Lipomata of the Bones. There have been recorded a single case of lipoma in the femur, observed by Cornil and Ranvier, and two cases in the superior maxilla (Viard and Triquet). Upon these observations rests the belief in the existence of this variety of neoplasm. According to Virchow, these tumors are only exostoses containing a large quantity of fatty marrow. 1 See Vol. V. pp. 426 et seq., supra.