216 URINARY CALCULUS. is a sequence of an ascending inflammatory process, starting as an acute cys- titis and terminating as an acute pyelitis, with multiple (bacterial) abscesses in the kidney—the whole culminating in death during coma, with high temperature and suppression of urine. Pyaemia and septicaemia may be somewhat guarded against by preparatory treatment, directed toward depriving the urine of its putridity and ammo- niacal qualities. Surgical kidney cannot be guarded against; it is more than anything else a result of a previously diseased condition of the kidney, and when it occurs it is the most certainly fatal of all the complications of ope- rations upon the bladder. An occasional death by tetanus has been noted after lithotomy. Preparation of Tatient for Radical Treatment of Stone. If a patient is young, with sound kidneys, a small stone, and a bladder reasonably free from inflammation, the urine being acid, no preparatory treat- ment is absolutely necessary, and an operation, well executed, is not much more likely to injure him seriously than it would after prolonged prepara- tory treatment. But the older the patient, the more damaged his organs, the higher the grade of the chronic cystitis, the more ammoniated and putrid the urine, and the larger the stone, by so much the more are skill, time, and attention needed in the preparatory treatment. This should in the main be the same, whether lithotomy or lithot-rity be contemplated. It may be divided into two parts: (1) The general prepara- tion of the patient. (2) The special preparation just before the operation, to be repeated in lithotrity before each subsequent sitting. (1) General Preparation of the Patient.—This consists in attention to the gene- ral health, to the condition of the urine, and to the state of the bladder and urethra. The general health may be fortified, if need be, by tonics, the bowels regulated, the diet looked into. As to diet, it is well to encourage the use of milk, both because it is very nutritive and acts as a mild soothing diuretic, and because it is an appropriate article of diet after the operation, and it is well to accustom the patient’s stomach to its digestion and assimilation; when ordinary milk does not agree with him, peptonized milk, kumyss, or buttermilk, may be advantageously substituted. The urine needs careful attention, first to decide whether kidney disease or diabetes exist, and, if so, whether any operation is allowable; and, secondly, as to its alkalinity and putridity. It has been perfectly well established (Girard,1 Malherbe,2 Gosselin and A. Robin,3 Menzel,4 and Muron5) that normal urine—urine alkaline with fixed alkalies or acid with urates6—does not harm the tissues or occasion local inflammation, while urine in ammoniacal degeneration is deadly to tissue vitality. The more putrid and decomposed such urine, the more virulent does it become (swarming as it is with bacteria), and it is not wise to operate upon a bladder containing urine in this condition by the crushing operation, or, if it can be avoided, even by lithotomy. The causes of this putridity in the urine are chronic vesical catarrh, with atony, and the constant presence of residual urine in the bladder. Any grade of acute or chronic vesical catarrh 1 Resorption nrineuse et uremie dans les maladies des voies nrinaires. Paris, 1873. 1 De la fievre dans les maladies des voies urinaires, These. Paris, 1872. 3 L’urine ammoniacal et la fievre urineuse. Paris, 1874. 4 Wien. med. Wochenschrift, Nos. 81-85. 1869. 6 Pathogenie de l’infiltration de Purine. Paris, 1872. 6 Van Buren and Keyes, Genito-Urinary Diseases, etc., pp. 46, 144. 1874.