244 URINARY CALCULUS. Mode of Performing Litholapaxy.—The patient having been prepared as already directed (page 216), is etherized and placed upon a table covered with a rubber cloth. The table should be high, narrow, and long.' The patient lies upon his back, with the hips elevated a few inches above the,table, the shoulders being low. Two assistants are essential, one to administer the anaesthetic, the other to attend exclusively to emptying and refilling the washing bottle. It is well to have a third assistant to hand instruments, etc. The first manoeuvre is to introduce the curved tube selected for the opera- tion, incising the meatus if necessary. Through this tube all the urine is drained away. How the washing bottle, charged with a saturated solution of borax at 100° F., is attached to the tube. But the urine having trickled away in its last drops through the tube leaves the latter full of air, an element fatal to nicety of washing. This air may be disposed of most simply. The tube is withdrawn until its eye is in the prostatic sinus, the washing bottle is attached and the stopcock turned, but no further motion made. In an instant, the air contained in the curved tube is felt and heard ascending through the stopcock and mounting into the top of the rubber evacuator, where it does no harm, and whence it cannot possibly return into the bladder. As soon as the rising bubbles of air have announced that, the tube is full of water, the bulb is compressed, water distends the prostatic sinus and neck of the bladder, and the tube passes on almost unaided into the vesical cavity without damaging the neck of the organ. I have found this flushing manoeu- vre of great assistance in certain cases of enlargement of the prostatic third lobe. It is not necessary when a straight tube with obturator and stopcock is used, for in such a case the tube does not contain air. How alternate contractions and relaxations of the rubber bulb are practised. This demon- strates the presence of the stone by the clicking noise made, while at the same time the wash disinfects the bladder. Two or three ounces of the fluid are left in the bladder, and the tube is withdrawn. The next step is the crushing. This is done according to the rules already laid down for ordinary lithotrity. All the seizures should be made deliber- ately, it being remembered that a cardinal rule of rapid lithotrity is to work, if not slowly, at least with deliberation. Ho instrument should be used which can by any possibility clog. Seizures are made in prompt succession, no time being lost in clearing the blades. After a dozen or more successful seizures the lithotrite is withdrawn and the tube reinserted, with the precau- tions as regards the entrance of air already alluded to, and the washing commences. The curved tube is first held so that its curve presses backwards and downwards upon the bladder behind the trigone. Then it is moved from side to side, and partly drawn out, finally inverted and held a little way up by depressing its distal end—the washing being kept up constantly as these changes in position are being made. The straight tube is held with its aperture as nearly as possible in the centre of the bladder, and preferably turned downwards; it also is rotated in different directions. The straight tube with an open end is so held that its opening lies just inside of the neck of the bladder. The washing is performed by an easy succession of synchronous movements of the hand. "When the fragments come into the receiver more slowly, and particularly to catch a last fragment, it is proper to compress the bulb rather violently, to maintain it compressed for an instant, and then suddenly to let up the pressure. When there is much angular debris the pieces rush together toward the eye of the evacuating tube, and, crowding into it, momentarily clog it, so that although they rattle most musically, there is very little show