INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS OF THE BONES. 862 subacute forms of osteo-myelitis. They are not found in some forms of tuberculous osteitis, and in neoplastic processes whose course is slowT, when absorption of tbe peripheral bony trabeculae has led to the disappearance of the physical conditions which produce strangulation. I shall return to this subject when speaking of neuralgic osteitis. Intra-osseous pains often begin with a vague discomfort in the bone, with the sensation of an indefinable malaise. The patient complains of weight in the member; he sometimes says that something seems to be gnawing at the bone, sometimes that an enormous weight presses on a limited portion of the limb ; at other times he feels a sensation of distention, as if the bone were going to fly in pieces; at other times, finally, it appears as if some one were boring through the bone or hollowing it out. Then there come acute, lacinating pains, which make him cry out, or an insupportable sensation of burning. These pains return every night in the subacute, and in some chronic forms; but in the acute, they are constant during a certain length of time, and have only exacerbations at night. Sometimes, after having lasted eight or ten days, and often more, they cease suddenly. This sudden cessation coincides with the appearance of a larger peripheral swelling, or of an evident sub-periosteal abscess. The appearance of this abscess or of this collection indicates the breaking down of the barriers which held in the inflammation and caused strangulation. This is what is seen in some cases of suppurating synovitis ; while the synovial membrane resists, the pains are intense and continuous ; as soon as it gives way, inter-muscular sinuses appear, but the compression is at an end and the pain disappears. Different Clinical Forms of Spontaneous Osteitis. I have already said that nothing is more variable than the clinical forms of osteitis. Although having the same situation, the same extent, and charac- terized by the same anatomical lesions, these cases present the most varied aspects; sometimes benign, sometimes grave, they are dependent upon the cause which has given rise to them, and to the infecting agent of which they are one of the manifestations. Inflammation of Bone accompanying the Period of Growth.—The period of growth of the skeleton being the epoch of life in which most cases of spontaneous osteitis are developed, the name “ osteitis of the period of growth” might be applied to the majority of inflammations of the bones which occur in children and adolescents: but, thus understood, the name would not signify anything by itself. We ought to reserve it solely for the osteitis which occurs without an appreciable cause, without any traumatism or local or diathetic source, which appears only associated with an exaggeration of the work of nutrition which is going on at a particu- lar time in any part of the skeleton. “Growing pains” have always played an important part in the popular theories of children’s diseases, but they have not attracted much attention from pathologists, who have been led to deny them, or at least to interpret them differently. In fact, there is nothing so variable as these transient pains of which children complain. It is sometimes hard to locate them, and still more to determine their nature. Nevertheless pains exist, which are vaguely referred to the joints, but which are really situated in the juxta-epiphyseal region, and which should be attributed to a transient hypersemia of the zone of physiological pro- liferation. I directed my attention long ago to this point; and I have