ORTHOPAEDIC SURGERY. 1066 spinous processes occurs; these parts of the vertebne may remain in posi- tion when even an extreme degree of lateral displacement of the bodies exists. This resistance to the formation of curvature displayed by the pos- terior portion of the spine, is especially exhibited in the lumbar region, where the apices of the spinous processes seldom become displaced, and are never so to more than a slight degree. The evidence of existing mischief is thus not very clear in the first stage of lateral curvature: the most super- ficial parts of the column are not affected, and the slight deflection of the bodies of the vertebras has not yet produced any marked effect upon the surrounding structures. In the dorsal region the curvature is usually first detected ; the increasing rotation of the vertebrae, and the consequent dis- placement backwards of the transverse processes and ribs on the side of convexity, cause the scapula on that side to become unduly prominent, and, as the deformity advances, the shoulder to be raised above its fellow on the opposite side. At the same time the flank becomes slightly deepened on the concave side of the lumbar curve, a change which does not attract the atten- tion of the uninitiated observer, but which should be carefully looked for in this stage of' deformity. Seldom, it may perhaps be said never, is a case of lateral curvature presented to us for treatment until it has reached the con- dition just indicated ; only too frequently the deformity is allowed to advance further, because the slight defects noticed are considered of no importance. From the state now reached, the progress of the distortion, if not checked, becomes more rapid ; in a few weeks, one or other of the con- ditions which have been described as illustrating the three types of lateral curvature (Figs. 1502 1504, and 1505), is developed. Still advancing, a grave deformity is established which has the effect of seriously diminishing the cavities of the thorax and abdomen, and of thus mechanically obstructing the action of the viscera. It is the thorax, the walls of which are more intimately connected with the spine than are those of the abdomen, that chiefly suffers from the distortion of the column in lateral curvature. This cavity is seriously diminished on the convex side of the dorsal curve, first by the encroachment of the bodies of the vertebne, which are turned towards this side, and secondly by the change in the shape of the ribs. The displacement of the ribs backwards, gradually increases as the rotation of the vertebrae advances ; being held in front by the sternum, which through its attachment to the clavicles prevents much lateral displacement of the anterior extremities of the bones, they are sub- jected to a constant strain which effects a marked change in the form of their shafts ; they become as it were folded up, and shaped somewhat like the bend of a fish-hook. The thoracic cavity is thus contracted laterally, and is flattened in front, on the convexity of the curve; it is slightly increased posteriorly, but the advantage gained here is considerably diminished by the pressure of the bodies of the vertebrae. On the concave side of the curve the ribs are pushed forwards, the chest on this side being contracted behind and somewhat enlarged in front; the chief mischief on this side is found in the loss of space in the vertical direction, as the ribs are crowded together and pressed downwards, whilst their oblique direction is increased to such a degree that the last rib will often touch the crest of the ilium. This dis- tortion of the walls of the thorax is in itself sufficient to account for the presence of impeded respiration and defective action of the heart, in cases of severe lateral curvature, but other causes of these conditions also exist: the mechanism of the costo-vertebral articulations is thrown out of gear, and the rising and falling action of the ribs is much diminished ; moreover, the abdominal viscera are pressed against the diaphragm, so that in every direc- tion is the expansion of the thoracic cavity interfered with.