LATERAL CURVATURE OF THE SPINE. 1065 that the same general condition of deformity will he found as exists in the dorsal region in Fig. 1502 and in the lumbar region in Fig. 1504, only to a much less degree. The three cases which have been selected as types of the three conditions of deformity, below the fourth dorsal vertebra, all present an upper curve to the. right and a lower curve to the left side, and, as has already been stated, this is the usual direction of the respective curves; such is not however a constant feature of lateral curvature of the spine, for the opposite state may occur of a dorsal curve to the left and a lumbar curve to the right side. When this latter condition of curvature is present, the distortion of the body will be correspondingly reversed, and those changes in the thoracic and abdominal regions which have been noted in the cases illustrated, will be found on the opposite sides of the body. In the greater number of cases of lateral curvature, the deformity is con- fined to the lower two-tliirds of the spine, but in some few instances the upper third of the column is also distorted. Early childhood and early adolescence have already been noticed as the periods of life at which curva- ture usually commences; deformity developed at the later period very rarely extends to the upper dorsal and cervical vertebrae; it is in cases which commence in early childhood that curvature in this region is occasionally met with. The structural changes in the upper part of the column, when curvature has been formed, are of precisely the same nature as those already described as occurring in the dorsal and lumbar regions; there is the same twisting of the vertebrae, with gi’eater lateral displacement of their bodies than of the spinous processes, and the same altered relationship of the surrounding structures as a result of this displacement. The upper cer- vical region is never the seat of curvature except as a complication of wry- neck, with which deformity this condition will have to be considered. Idiopathic curvature may extend as high as the sixth cervical vertebra ; in such a case, it is as a rule the beginning of a long upper curve extending to the lower dorsal vertebrae, from which point a second curve to the opposite side will be found involving the vertebrae below. In exceptional cases there may be a short curve above, then a second curve to the other side, and a third curve below, to the same side as the first; these three curves may exhibit all sorts of variations in their respective lengths. Even four curves may be developed, and the existence of such conditions as these has led to the group- ing of cases of lateral curvature of the spine according to the number of curves found in the column; but such a classification only tends to promote confusion, and to withdraw attention from the fact that the length of the curves—the number of vertebrae consecutively distorted—is the character of deformity of chief importance. The description that has been given of the various forms of curvature, both with regard to the structural changes in the column and the external characters presented, has reference only to that state of deformity in which the curves formed have been well marked but not of severe grade ; it still remains to examine the course which the deformity follows from its first appearance to its most advanced stage. Progress of Lateral Curvature.—In the development of lateral curvature the anterior portion of the column is first deflected from the median line ; the vertebrae at the seats of curvature commence to rotate, so that their bodies are turned to one side, which eventually becomes the side of convexity of the curve, whilst the spinous processes retain their normal positions. As the distortion increases, the bodies of the vertebrae become further displaced, and it is not until the curvature is well advanced that lateral deviation of the