ORTHOPAEDIC SURGERY. 1050 has been recommended that this ligament should be divided subcutaneously. There is no objection of any importance to be advanced against this opera- tion, but in my opinion a more advisable plan is to stretch the ligament gradually by daily manipulation of the knee, a process which is practically as rapid as the more heroic measure of dividing the ligament and punc- turing the synovial membrane of the joint. It must be remembered that the relief of knock-knee, to be complete, must include the restoration to its normal condition of the weak internal lateral ligament, and that this result can only be obtained by time; so that, even if the contraction on the outer side of the knee be instantaneously removed, instrumental treatment must be continued until the weakened structures on the inner side have acquired strength, as otherwise the condition of valgus will be sure to return. In manipulating the knee for the purpose of stretching the external liga- ments, the joint is held firmly on the inner side with one hand, while the leg is fully extended and grasped just above the ankle with the other hand, and steadily pressed inwards ; as much force may be used as the patient can bear without feeling pain, and the limb may be “worked” in this manner for ten minutes or a quarter of an hour every morning and evening ; the rubbing and shampooing of tbe inner side of the joint, as previously described, should be practised before the manipulation. In the most severe grades of genu valgum, as has already been described, tbe plane of the articular surface of the femur is often abnormally oblique, owing to partial absorption of tbe surface of the outer condyle, and to elongation and thickening of the inner condyle. This change in the articu- lar surface of the femur does not much increase the difficulty of reducing the deformity in the case of young children, for nature gradually reshapes the joint-surface as the bones are restored to their proper positions. When, however, knock-knee has been developed in early life and has been allowed to continue unrelieved until the subject is about twelve years of age, the elongation of the inner condyle may become a serious complication of the distortion ; fortunately, such cases are of somewhat rare occurrence, and even the severest grade of distortion will yield to the employment of a method of treatment similar to that above described. In the mechanical treatment of these cases, the trough-splint (Fig. 1496) more completely con- trols the limb, and is a more convenient appliance to use, than the simple outside splint. It practically consists of the divided outside splint, with the addition of a foot-piece and of back splints for the thigh and leg ; a knee-cap and straps for the purpose of fixing the limb are also added ; this instrument requires some little caution in its use, for, from the length of leverage of the thigh and leg pieces, a great amount of force can be brought to bear upon the knee by turning the cog-wheel opposite the joint. The most severe conditions of deformity will yield to the trough-splint and manipulation; the case illustrated in Fig. 1495 was treated by this method, and at the end of three months the patient was able to stand and be photographed in the position shown in Fig. 1497. Operative Treatment of Genu Valgum.—In cases of genu valgum which have existed for some length of time, and in which the inner condyle is con- siderably increased in length, the reduction of the deformity can be more readily achieved than by the above methods, by resorting to an operation on the lower extremity of the femur, for the purpose of rectifying the obliquity of the articular surface. Several different operations have been devised and practised with the object of remedying the hypertrophy of the inner con- dyle ; those which are adopted in the present day differ in some important respects from one another. In May, 1876, Dr. Ogston first performed the operation which is associated