432 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE URETHRA. solution of continuity, complete or incomplete, of the urethra exists alone with- out wound of the soft parts. Etiology.-—Ruptures of the pendulous portion of the urethra are rare, while on the contrary those of the bulbous and membranous portions are very frequent. In regard to their cause and their mechanism, they differ in different cases. (1) Rupture of the Pendulous Portion.—Very rarely rupture of the pendulous portion is caused by direct violence, the penis being in a state of repose. Of this there are a number of examples. Voillemier cites the case of a man whose urethra was ruptured by the kick of a horse; and there is found in the thesis of Bollard an account of a man sixty years old, who was knocked down by a heavy wagon, the wheel of which passed across the upper part of his thighs, bruising the penis at its root, near the pubis. In each of these two cases it was upon the pubis that the urethra was pressed and lacerated. In the following case, likewise reported by Voillemier, the penis was caught between two hard bodies: a valet de chambre, wishing to close the drawer of his bureau, pushed it with the upper part of his thighs so that unfortunately his penis, then hanging down, was violently squeezed, and he sustained a rup- ture of the urethra. Somewhat more frequently, a direct contusion has torn the urethra when the penis has been in erection. Such an accident happened to a man spoken of by Voillemier, who, in a house of prostitution, received upon, the erected penis, just in front of the scrotum, a blow from a pair of tongs, which ruptured his urethra without involving the skin. During erection, rupture of the urethra may be effected by another mechanism : by torsion or by exaggeration of the curve of the penis. This sometimes produces a rupture including at the same time the spongy body and the cavernous bodies—what is called a fracture of the penis. Sometimes the urethra alone is lacerated on one of its sides. The commonest cause of this sort of rupture is the accomplishment of coitus under certain conditions: either, as Demarquay remarks, it is the consequence of a violent effort at intromission, or it occurs during the act of coitus, when a false movement produces a rough flexion of the penis against the pubis or perineum of the female. In other cases, of which some examples have likewise been observed, the laceration takes place in consequence of a rough and energetic twisting of the penis with the hand. I will mention finally, as a frequent cause of the accident which we are studying, the absurd practice of certain individuals suffering with chordee following acute urethritis; this consists in “ breaking the cord,” that is to say, in placing the penis on a table and striking it on the dorsal surface with the fist. (2) Rupture of the Perineal Portion.—The traumatisms which affect the perineal portion may be ranged under two principal types: either the indi- vidual has a fall upon the perineum, or a blow or other violence is applied to the perineal region. Examples of the first variety are numerous, and consist almost altogether of falls across bodies of different sorts, a beam of wood, a plank, a spar of a ship, etc. Ruptures following blows on the perineum are much more rare ; their commonest cause is a kick upon the perineum by a man or a horse, when the thighs are separated, as upon the perineum pro- truding backward while the body is inclined forward. The mechanism of these ruptures has long engaged the attention of authors, who have expressed in regard to this subject contradictory opinions. According to Velpeau and Franc, the urethral lesion was the result of a crushing of the membranous portion of the urethra against the lower border of the pubic arch, or of its bulbous portion against the anterior surface of the pubis, and this opinion, repeated by all authors, has long been accepted without contest. It has, however, been combated by Cras, who, in a paper which appeared in 1876,