APPENDIX. 1194 into cases of bamboo. I find in bis “ Surgeon’s Mate,” that, he follows the same practice, laid down by Clowes, in arresting hemorrhage after the “ dis- membering” or amputation of limbs, viz: the “buttons” and “restrictive powder.” He evidently regarded the dismemberment of a limb as an ex- ceedingly serious operation, giving the following admonitions:— If you be constrained to use your saw, let first your patient be well informed of the eminent danger of death by the use thereof, prescribe him no certaintie of life, and let the worke be done with his owne free will and request, and not otherwise. Let him prepare his soule as a ready sacrifice to the Lord by earnest prayers; craving mercie and helpe unfainedlie: and forget thou not also thy dutie in that kinde, to crave mercie and helpe from the Almightie, and that heartily. For it is no small presumption to dismember the image of God. lie tells us in his Treatise of Gangrena and Spachelos (1639) that he had been a surgeon for “ the space of 50 yeares,” and that “ for the space of nere 24 yeares” he had been a surgeon in the Hospitall of St. Bartholomews, where he had “ taken off, and holpen to take off' many more then one hun- dred of legges and armes,” “and further-more I affirme that not above foure of each twenty dismembered, but lived to have beene healed.” USTo marvel, then, that he should have dread of dismembering the Image of God. Franciscus Arceus, a celebrated Spanish surgeon, was born in 1493, and died in 1573. He had an ample experience in the wars of that period, and wrote a work on the cure of wounds, which became very famous, being first printed in Latin, in 1574, at Antwerp. It was translated into German, Dutch, and English.1 He was a strong advocate of turpentine in the cure of wounds. Rhinoplasty had, no doubt, been practised more or less crudely through all the ages from the time of Celsus to the middle of the sixteenth century. The restorer and champion of this variety of surgery was Gasparo Taglia- cozzi, or Taliacotius, as we commonly see the name printed. He was a cele- brated professor of anatomy and surgery in the University of Bologna. He was born at Bologna in 1546, and died in the same city in 1599. His great work “De Curtorum Chirurgia per Insitionem, libri duo,”2 with its twenty- two Icons, is classical, monumental, and justly famous. “The Taliacotian operation,” for the restoration of the nose, is described in all modern works on surgery. Fabricius ab Acquapendente (1537-1619) was a celebrated anatomist and surgeon, who was professor of these departments in the University of Padua for many years, being the successor of the distinguished Fallopius, and the master of" the renowned Harvey. Jerome Fabricius has been styled the father of modern surgery. He made many improvements in both the science and art of surgery, his works being so highly esteemed and so eagerly demanded that no less than eighteen editions were published, in various lan- guages and in different countries, extending over a period of one hundred years. Josephus Quercetanus, Joseph du Chesne, or Quesne, or Duchesne, was horn in 1544, and died at Paris in 1609. He was physician of Henry IV., and associated with Guy Patin and other celebrities of the court. He was the author of many works on medicine and surgery. Those of most import- ance to our art are his treatises on the cure of gunshot wounds, which were published at Lyons in 1576, and translated into English by John Hester, and published in small quarto at London in 1590, with the following title: “The Scloptarie of Joseph Quercetanus, phisition, Or His booke containing 1 By John Reed, Cliirurgeon. 4to. London, 1588. 2 Published at Venice, in folio, 1597.