287 LITHOTOMY. downwards almost upon the rectum, and is very liable to be cut if a puncture is resorted to as in Allarton’s method. The left index is now passed into the wound behind the bulb, and made to search for the groove in the staff. The nail is there inserted, and upon this as a guide the membranous urethra is opened in the median line, and incised up to and into the apex of the prostate. The nail of the left index is main- tained in its position until the right index or a director has entered the urethra, as otherwise the opening in the latter may he hard to find. The right index finger is now gently inserted along the staff into the bladder, dilating its neck, or, in the case of children, a straight director such as Little’s (Fig. 1271) is passed into the bladder, the staff is withdrawn, and Fig. 1271. along the narrow director the finger and afterwards the forceps are carried into the organ. In this way the accident of lateral rupture of the urethra by the surgeon’s finger may he avoided. After the neck of the bladder has been properly dilated by the finger, small straight forceps are introduced, and the stone is withdrawn. Recovery is rapid if the neck of the bladder has not been bruised in attempting to extract a large stone, one not suitable for the median method. The medio-lateral and medio-bilateral methods combine an external median opening with internal, liberating, prostatic incisions on one or both sides. Dolbeau’s perineal lithotrity is an operation now practically obsolete even in France, the land of its birth. It may still be used successfully when the surgeon wishes to attempt to remove a large stone by the median method. The incisions up to the apex of the prostate are made from without inwards, as in the median operation. A special dilator (Fig. 1272) is then iutro- Fig. 1272. Dolbeau’s dilator for perineal lithotrity. duced along the staff into the neck of the bladder, and the latter is gradu- ally enlarged up to the maximum point in the adult, which Dolbeau decided to he just short of one inch in diameter (24 millimetres). Up to this point the healthy neck of the adult bladder may be dilated without giving way. The crushing forceps (page 267) is now introduced, and, after"fragmenta- tion into a number of large pieces, the debris is removed with forceps, scoop, and irrigation. Great care is necessary not to damage the vesical neck in attempting to remove large angular fragments. IY. Supra-pubic Lithotomy.—The best account of the modern high opera- tion as it is now practised in Europe—notably in France—that I can find, is