ANOMALIES OF TI1E TESTICLE. 595 tions, and exposed a bluish encysted swelling with very vascular walls. On carefully puncturing this*, it was found to contain a gangrenous testicle, which, on section, pre- sented much the appearance of black currant-jelly, traversed here and there by a few unaltered septa and tubules. Another black cyst-like swelling with thinner walls, was found to be the epididymis, and above this was the reddish, pulpy, cedematous cord. This was divided after being tied with carbolized silk ; a few arteries were tied with catgut, and the wound was closed with wire sutures. Treatment.—In some cases it is desirable to keep the testicle within the abdomen, out of harm’s way, by means of a truss with a suitable pad. In children, however, should an inguinal hernia be present, the case should be left for a time to nature, in the hope that the bowel may push the testis past the external ring. Should the testicle at any time become acutely inflamed, the bowel is liable to become adherent to it and thus to be rendered irreducible. In cases in which it is possible to manipulate the testicle downwards into the scrotum, giving room for the pad of a truss to be placed between the gland and the ring, this instrument may be worn, and will, if a hernia be present, keep it up in the abdomen. Mr. Curling recommends that if the testicle be undescended at the end of two years, it should be kept up by a truss. He removed a testicle which had been attacked repeatedly by inflammation owing to injurious compression by the abdominal'muscles. Mr. Wood’s treatment of these cases is worthy of imitation:— In the case of a young man who had a retained testicle associated with congenital inguinal hernia, he removed the testicle, which was undeveloped, being half the size of the other, and then performed an operation for radical cure of the hernia by dissecting up the sac from the surrounding parts—or rather by tearing it, using two pairs of for- ceps, from its connection—then tying its neck high up with strong catgut and removing it. The edges of the external ring and the sides of the inguinal canal were brought together by passing silver wire through the external and internal pillars of the ring. In a case of strangulated hernia complicated with retained testicle, Mr. Wood performed three operations at one and the same time, viz., castration of a useless testicle, the relief of an acutely strangulated hernia, and its radical cure This operation should be done with antiseptic precautions. Prof. Humphry1 says that, should a congenital hernia or one associated with a retained testicle become strangulated, the stricture will be found at the neck of the sac, and, it may be, at some distance behind the internal ring, a pouch, in which some of the hernia is contained, being formed between "the perito- neum and the fascia transversalis. A hernia, instead of descending down- wards, in these cases, turns upwards and outwards towards the iliac spine, owing to the undeveloped condition of the scrotum. An interesting case in which a testicle was displaced into the perineum (ectopia perinealis) occurred to the late Mr. Partridge, who attempted but failed to replace it in the scrotum. (Fig. 1372.) A very full account is fur- nished by Mr. James Adams,2 of the London Hospital, of the case of an infant aged eleven weeks, whose left testicle was similarly situated:— The cord and tunica vaginalis passed down in the fold between the scrotum and thigh; these, together with the testicle, were carefully dissected up and placed in a pouch pre- pared for them in the scrotum, where they were retained by means of catgut sutures passed through the lower part of the tunica vaginalis and the scrotum, 9 The child died in fourteen days from erysipelas and inflammation carried along the funicular process to the peritoneum. In another case also, reported by Mr. Curling, the child died after the operation. 1 Holmes’s System of Surgery, 2d ed., vol. v. p. 78, note. 2 Lancet, 1871.