THE PORRO-CEESAREAN SECTION—LAPARO-HYSTERO-OOPIIORECTOMY. 771 as follows: “I do not doubt that the uterus is not at all necessary to life; but whether it may be plucked out with impunity from the human body we •cannot be certain, without a further series of experiments of this kind, which perhaps a more fortunate generation may obtain.” It is a singular coincidence, that the name of the lirst woman operated upon should also have been Cavallini. Dr. G. P. Michaelis, of Marburg, wrote in 1809 : “ It is indeed a question, whether the Ceesarean section would not be made less dangerous if with it were combined the extirpation of the uterus.” Dr. James Blundell, of London, who, in many of his views, was much in advance of the time in which he lived, was led by a series of experiments into the same train of thought. After saving three rabbits out of four, under hysterectomy, he wrote in 1828 as follows: “In speculative moments I have sometimes felt inclined to persuade myself that the dangers of the Ciesarean operation might be considerably diminished by the total removal of the uterus.” . . . “ Perhaps the method of operating may hereafter prove an eminent and valuable improvement.” Dr. Giacinto Fogliata, of the Veterinary Section of the Royal University of Pisa, made in 1874 a series of experiments, and saved three non-gravid bitches out of four, after the removal of their uteruses. In a monograph which lie published in 1875,1 he mentions the fact, that, in 1862, Dr. Jeser had operated in a similar manner upon the same number in a gravid condition, and saved two. Prof. Porro, without knowing of Fogliata’s experiments, in the same year, 1874, removed the gravid uteruses of three rabbits, all of which recovered. In July, 1871, he had operated, in Milan, upon a young rachitic primipara, by the old Caesarean section, after a labor of twelve hours; the child was saved, but the mother died in fifty hours from internal hemorrhage and metro-peritonitis. As this operation had been universally fatal in the hospital in Pavia, and almost so in the Maternity of Milan, lie determined to modify it in the hope of diminishing its fatality. Although the first premeditated, elective, Caesarean utero-ovarian amputation was performed by Prof. Porro, he was not the first to remove a puerperal uterus by amputation of the cervix, this having been done of necessity in 1869 by Prof. Horatio R. Storer, of Boston (now of Newport, R. I.), who operated in a desperate case of hemorrhage, produced by the uterine wound of a gastro-hysterotomy which had been rendered necessary by the presence of a fibro-cystic tumor. The child was dead and putrid, and the woman had been three days in labor: she died of septicaemia in sixty-eight hours. Drs. Cavallini, Michaelis, Blundell, Jeser, and Fogliata all recommended a trial of entire extirpation of the uterus as a means of lessening the mortality after the Caesarean operation ; but Prof. Porro made the important changes of amputating the cervix and dressing it externally. Mode of Operating.—According to the directions of Prof. Porro, the first steps in his method are precisely those given under the head of modern anti- septic Caesarean section, up to the point of suturing the uterine wound. His first operation was performed on May 21, 1876, upon a rachitic primipara of 25, who had been in hospital twenty-four days, and in labor less than seven hours. She had been under a tonic regimen, and in a private room, and was in a favorable state for the operation. Her height was 4 feet 10J inches, and the conjugate diameter of her pelvis 1T9¥ inches. She was operated upon under chloroform, and all of the participants washed their hands in •dilute carbolic acid. After the uterus had been opened and its contents 1 Giornale de Anatomia, Fisiologia, e Patologia. Pisa, 1875.