ORTHOPAEDIC SURGERY. 1048 feet more under the centre of gravity of the body, a practice which, in cases of long existence, induces an abnormal increase in the adduction of the femur at the hip-joint. Accompanying the dis- placement of the leg, the structures sur- rounding the knee-joint are also involved; thus, on the outer side of the joint the external lateral ligament is shortened and contracted owing to the approximation of its points of attachment, and the tendon of the biceps muscle and the deep fascia are similarly affected; on the inner side, the lateral ligament is stretched and weakened. When genu valgum has existed for some years, the joint-surfaces become changed in shape, the plane of the condyles from side to side being abnormally oblique from above downwards and inwards, whilst that of the tibia slopes upwards and outwards. Knock-knee, the result of rickets, is directly caused by the lax condition of the ligaments which is so frequently asso- ciated with that disease. Any one who has frequent opportunities of exam- ining rickety children, may satisfy himself on this point by testing the limbs of those who are markedly affected with the dyscrasia; it will be found in such cases that a very decided amount of lateral movement of the knee-joint can be produced when the leg is fully extended on the thigh, an amount of abnormal mobility which arises from the lateral ligaments being too weak to keep the joint-surfaces firmly braced together. A joint thus loosely knit soon gives way under the weight of the body, and, as the internal lateral ligament is from its construction the least able to resist pressure, the displacement occurs in an inward direction ; the oblique position of the femur perhaps also con- tributes to determine the development of a valgoid knee. When the deformity has been thus started, it usually progresses somewhat rapidly, and in a few months a severe condition of distortion ma}^ be established ; on the other hand, a more healthy condition of the ligaments may arise, and the displacement may become arrested before much mischief has been caused. The presence of genu valgum in no way interferes with the movements of flexion and extension of the joint, and the subjects of this deformity, even when it exists in a severe grade, possess very good powers of walking ; when the leg is flexed to a right angle on the thigh, the distortion disappears, because in this position the con- tracted structures on the ou ter side of the joint are relaxed. As has been before remarked, rachitic genu valgum is very often accompanied by curvature of the bones of the lower extremity; there is also always present some enlargement of the bones which enter into the formation of the joint; the inner condyle is apt to be especially prominent, and so is the inner surface of the head of the tibia, the projection of these parts of the bones forming a very marked swell- ing on the inner side of the joint; exostotic masses of bone are also not unfrequently formed on the inner surface of the shaft of the tibia, a short distance below its head. Genu valgum the result of debility, is, as far as the external characteristics of the deformity are concerned, very similar to the rachitic variety; it does not, however, attain to such a degree of severity. The subjects of this affection are young children who are overloaded with fat and possessed of somewhat lax tissues, in whom, as has already been noted, talipes valgus is also frequently developed; again, those who have suffered from exhaustive diseases which Fig. 1495.