1073 LATERAL CURVATURE OP THE SPINE. further consideration is necessary before dismissing the theory of acquired muscular contraction, I would refer again to the case illustrated in Fig. 1506, described under the subject of lateral bending of the spine; surely if muscular contraction consequent upon assuming a bad position were the cause of lateral curvature, such a case as this ought to have developed the deformity ; yet the spine remained unaffected by structural change, although the distortion had existed for two years. The formation of curvature by muscular action has also been ascribed to the existence of greater power of the muscles on one side of the body; thus, in the dorsal region of the spine, it has been reasoned that the right lung is more capa- cious than the left, that the right arm exceeds the left in weight, and that there- fore the muscles passing between the spine and the chest and arm, are stronger on the right than on the left side, and that by their action the spine is dragged into a condition of curvature. The serratus magnus muscle is regarded as the principal agent in producing the deformity; by its action upon the ribs it converts these bones into levers, and twists around the neighboring vertebrae. The objection to this theory is that lateral curvature of the spine should, accord- ing to this reasoning, be a frequent complication of chronic affections of the lungs, when one lung is more affected than the other; but this is not the case, for the victims of phthisis are very rarely the subjects of lateral curvature; moreover, it is difficult to understand how the serratus magnus muscle could act in the manner described, since it is, through the scapula, directly depend- ent upon the spine itself for its fixed point for action. One more argument in favor of the muscular origin of curvature may be noticed before leaving the subject; the probability of the muscles of the trunk being chiefly instru- mental in developing abnormal curvatures of the spine, has been supported by ascribing to the same influence the formation of the normal antero-posterior curves. The spine of the infant, we are told, is shaped after this manner: the psoas muscles draw forwards the lower vertebra', the erectores spinse pull back the column above this point, still higher the vertebrae are again brought forwards by the abdominal muscles, and the normal shape of the spine is completed by those muscles which are attached to the occiput producing by their contraction another curve. Supposing that we accept this hypothetical explanation of the formation of the three normal antero-posterior curves of the column, to what guiding influence are we to attribute this exact modelling by contraction of the various muscles? and having solved this problem, how are we to apply our knowledge so as to arrive at the influence which gives origin to abnormal curvatures? It can scarcely be doubted that, had the mus- cular-causation theory of the development of lateral curvature never been advanced, the formation of the normal curves of the spine by muscular action would not have been suggested. The theory of causation which we have next to consider, differs in a most important respect from those already passed in review, for the formation of curvature is ascribed to changes arising within the column itself, these changes being due to certain predisposing conditions. The first predis- posing cause is the existence of considerable flexibility of the spine at the age at which curvature is developed; this normal flexibility is unduly in- creased in young girls by deterioration of the muscular tissue which results from their pursuing a sedentary mode of life, precluding the healthy devel- opment of the muscles of the hack; as a sequence of this muscular weakness, sympathetic degeneration of the ligamentous tissue ensues. Deprived thus in a great measure of the support which it receives from the muscles and ligaments, the spine is chiefly dependent upon the articular processes for power to resist pressure applied in a lateral direction. If then the subject, with a spine thus weakened, frequently throws the column into a condition vol vi.—68