701 GENITAL ATRESIA. womb distended by menstrual fluid, puncture of the uterus through the rectum has been successfully resorted to. Such a puncture, if a small trocar is used, is not dangerous. Simon proposed as a substitute for this operation, an open- ing into the uterus through the bladder. Complex Atresia.—In some cases of double uterus and vagina, one of the vaginas or one of the uteruses may be occluded ; such an occlusion is called a complex atresia. If the vagina be only occluded in part, menstrual blood accumulates in the unobstructed portion, giving rise to a tumor which encroaches upon the open vagina, and this tumor is known as lateral hcemato- colpos. After a time the uterus itself becomes distended, and then there is lateral hcematometra conjoined with hsematocolpos. If the vagina is com- pletely occluded, or the os uteri closed, the menstrual fluid is confined to the uterus. In case of lateral hiematocolpos, an opening may be readily made from the other vagina. So too, in lateral luematometra, an opening may be made from the vagina belonging to the other uterus, or from the cervical canal of the latter. Accidental Genital Atresia.—It is altogether exceptional for this form of atresia to occur prior to the establishment of the menstrual function, but when it does occur, the effects are the same as in the congenital form, and therefore such cases may be omitted from present consideration. Accidental or acquired atresia may result from cauterization, from amputation or cancer of the neck of the womb; from irritant or corrosive substances introduced into the vagina—as in the case of a woman who used a vaginal injection of sulphuric acid to procure abortion—from puerperal vaginitis, from ulceration of the vagina in typhoid fever or in smallpox, etc. The accidents characterizing menstrual retention from accidental atresia are similar to those observed in congenital atresia. They differ, as pointed out by Bernutz, in the much greater gravity which they present; and there will be symptoms produced at the first attack of pain, which are not usually found until the fifth or sixth month in cases of congenital retention. “At the second or third menstrual epoch without excretion, this depending upon the habitual abundance of the flow and upon circumstances which may increase or lessen the secretion, the patients are a prey to cruel uterine colics, which usually compel them to seek professional help.” At this time an abdominal tumor may be found, caused by the enlarged uterus, and also a vaginal tumor if there be space above the adherent part of the vagina for the collection of blood. The prognosis is the more favorable, in this as well as in congenital atresia, the shorter the time that menstrual retention has existed. Treatment.—This does not differ from that required in the corresponding form of congenital atresia, save that, if the atresia be of the vagina, it will be found necessary, on account of the firm and resisting character of the cicatri- cial tissue, to resort more frequently to bistoury or scissors. Most surgeons prefer operating at a time when the sexual organs are in repose, therefore about the middle of the menstrual interval. The local use of antiseptics is to be observed in the operation and in the after-treatment. Another im- portant prophylactic means is to keep the patient in bed, even after appa- rently so simple an operation as opening an imperforate hymen, for some days subsequently. The liability to contraction and closure of the vagina which has been formed, or of that which has been opened, should be guarded against by the regular introduction of some artificial dilating body, such as a uterine glass speculum, or one of Sims’s dilators.