INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE RECTUM. 142 elongation of the mucous membrane rather than a new formation. These tumors may become malignant. I have seen two cases in which epithelioma replaced the villous growth. Impaction of Feces. * By this expression is meant an accumulation in the pouch of the rectum, immediately above the internal sphincter. It occurs in females more com- monly than in males; old women, and women shortly after their confine- ments, being especially liable to it. I have seen it in children, and call to mind a little hoy, only three years of age, who had a veritable impaction which gave a good deal of trouble; but when it was removed the bowel re- gained its tone quickly, and regular action was afterwards easily kept up. The cause of the accumulation I believe to be nearly always, primarily, a loss of power in the muscular coat of the rectum. Constipation is its inva- riable forerunner, and this may be due to spasm of the sphincter. In impac- tion, sphincter-spasm always exists, so that when the patient strains the anus protrudes like a nipple. The symptoms of impaction may be obscure, and I have known it mistaken for neuralgia of the rectum, gout of the rectum, and malignant disease of the caecum or sigmoid flexure. I once attended a gentleman who had been be- lieved by his physician to have incipient disease of the brain, so much nervousness and hypochondriasis resulted from a very loaded colon and impacted rectum. In another case, phthisis had been diagnosed by several medical men on account of a constant cough, with hectic at night, and much emaciation. But the most common error is the mistaking of impaction for diarrhoea with tenesmus. In many of these cases the patient complains of a tendency to diarrhoea, liquid motions being frequently passed, especially after taking an aperient, but without any sense of relief; and on assuming the erect position, straining—severe, continuous, and irresistible—takes place. On lying down this generally passes away. In the history of these cases it is not rare to find that severe pains have been experienced in the right lumbar and left inguinal regions ; this symptom points to the fact that the caecum has been the seat of obstruction and dis- tension, and that when this has been removed, the feces have again lodged in the rectal pouch. Dyspepsia, irritability of temper, nervousness, and despon- dency-—the patient supposing herself to he suffering from an incurable malady -—a very muddy, yellow, skin suggestive of malignant disease, morning vomit- ing, loathing of all food, and excessive thirst, are among the common symptoms of this disorder. A peculiar, ringing cough, particularly in women, and also night-sweats, are not uncommon. In both men and women obstinate reten- tion of urine may be caused by impaction. When examining a patient, tumors may be felt in the csecum, the transverse colon, or the sigmoid flexure. The anus will he found nipple-shaped, and the sphincter muscle as hard as a piece of wood. On introducing the finger into the bowel (no easy matter), a ball of hardened, clayey feces will be found filling up the rectal pouch. This ball I have seen as large as a foetal head, and quite movable, so as to admit of liquid or thin fecal matter passing around by its sides, thus giving rise to the impression that diarrhoea rather than constipation existed. So deceptive is the feeling which this mass gives to the fingers, that I have more than once thought that I must be touching a tumor. In bad cases the sphincters must be dilated under an anaesthetic, and then the mass broken up with the finger or a lithotomy scoop, or the handle of a silver spoon. After having thoroughly disintegrated the impacted mass,