LATERAL CURVATURE OF THE SPINE. 1063 described will be more readily understood by referring to the accompanying diagram (Fig. 1503), in which the dark line repre- sents the normal outline of the thorax on transverse section, and the lighter line the change produced by the altered position of the vertebrae in lateral curvature. A further change in the position of the ribs is also produced, which affects the shape of the thorax: on the concave side of the curve their oblique direction is exaggerated, and they become crowded together and pushed downwards so that the last rib is brought abnormally near to the crest of the ilium ; on the convex side the oblique direction is lost and the ribs are directed horizontally, the intercostal spaces being widened and the capacity of the chest apparently increased. The deepening of the flank on the right side and the flattening on the opposite side, are dependent upon the displacement of the lumbar vertebrae, the bodies of which are turned towards the left side, whereby the abdominal walls fall in on the right side and give an appearance of undue 'prominence of the crest of the ilium. The apparent protrusion of the right ilium is com- monly spoken of as “ growing out of the hipit often first attracts the attention of the patient, and is the cause for which relief is sought from the surgeon; the latter should not of course be deceived by this condition, but mistakes are occasionally made, such as treating the case as one of hip-joint disease, or ordering a high boot to be Avorn under the supposition that the leg is shortened. Besides these changes in the outline of the trunk, there are important features to be noticed with reference to the surfaces of the body: on the posterior surface, to the right of the lumbar spine, a groove is formed from the altered direction of the transverse processes; this depression results from the muscles sinking in with the rotated transverse processes, and not, as some- times supposed, from wasting of these muscles ; on the left side, in the corres- ponding region, there is found a prominence caused by the muscles being thrown into strong relief and pushed backwards by the projecting processes on this side. In the dorsal region, the most striking abnormality is the position assumed by the scapulce: the right scapula is unusually prominent, and is directed outwards, its lower angle being especially noticeable—a con- dition which is due to the altered shape of the thorax, and to the bone slipping above the upper borders of the latissimus dorsi muscle; on the left side the scapula is less prominent than natural, owing to the flattening of the thorax; its inferior angle is depressed, and is on a lower level than the bone of the opposite side. On the anterior surface of the body the changes are not as well marked as on the posterior surface; the breasts will, how- ever, be often found to be placed unsymmetrically, the left being more prominent and raised higher than the right; a peculiar twisted appearance of the abdomen is also met with, the umbilicus being displaced from the median line, and there being a greater fulness on the right than on the left side. The chief variations from the normal condition on the surfaces of the body will thus be seen to be, an undue prominence of certain parts on one side and a depression of the same organs on the opposite side ; of these con- ditions, the first, it will be noticed, arises on the convex side of the curve of the spine on the posterior surface, and on the concave side of the curve on the Fig. 1503. Diagram of thorax in lateral curvature. (After Shaw.)