400 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE BLADDER AND PROSTATE. that the necessity for the use of the catheter must not be judged of by the size which the bladder has attained. If one man is so insensitive as to require relief by the catheter only when the fundus of his bladder reaches to the umbilicus, we must not infer that another needs it less, because this line has not yet, in his case, been reached. Powers of endurance in this respect are very different. The patient with a small, contracted bladder, from long-standing stricture, suffers all the horrors of retention long before the indicated limit has been reached. The amount of distension has, in some instances, been very remarkable, so as even to have suggested to the practitioner that some error in diagnosis had been made. A case is recorded by Dr. Murchison,1 in which an abdominal enlargement in the male, believed to be a hydatid tumor of the liver, turned out to be a distended bladder, holding twenty- four pints of urine. Another case is narrated by Jaccoud,2 in which a tumor occupying the hypogastric and umbilical regions in a young woman, was at first thought to be an ovarian cyst. Other instances are to be found in which a distended bladder has been mistaken for pregnancy. Illustrations such as these do not, as a rule, indicate that there is any real difficulty in making a diagnosis between a tumor and a distended bladder, but rather the caution which is necessary in accepting the statements of persons as to their ability to micturate, and as to the completeness of the act. Because a patient passes water, we are not, therefore, justified in assuming that he can empty liis bladder. When the retention is extreme and the prostate is not large, the distended bladder can generally be felt from the rectum ; fluctuation may also be detected here by palpating above the pubis. In very corpulent persons, it may be almost impossible to determine the precise condition of the bladder, when retention is suspected, by abdominal examination; hence, in cases of doubt, the catheter should be passed. As already observed, retention of urine may, by reason of an overflow or incontinence being induced, be prevented from doing serious mischief; it is remarkable in some cases how long such a condition may continue. Where ulceration of the bladder exists, or the urethra is dilated, or weakened, behind a stricture, the patient is exposed to the danger of a sudden rupture taking place, and of extravasation of urine occurring. In some of the cases recorded as spontaneous rupture of the bladder from retention, this accident had probably been preceded by ulceration. Suppression of urine is not to be mistaken for retention; in the former, we have an empty bladder and no urine, by reason of the kidneys failing to excrete. Retention of urine may be due to a variety of causes, which may be included under four headings: (1) causes indirectly connected with the urinary organs, (2) structural changes in the bladder or the piresence within it of abnormal contents, (8) causes originating in the prostate, (4) urethral obstruction. These conditions will require special consideration. (1) Amongst the causes of retention indirectly connected with the urinary apparatus, we must include injuries by which their innervation is more or less destroyed, or their muscular mechanism interfered with. Injuries to the spine or cord—such as fracture, dislocation, or concussion—are frequently fol- lowed by temporary or permanent retention of urine, due to the injury of the nerves or spinal centres by which paralysis is induced. Concussion of the spine rarely occasions more than very temporary retention, although con- siderable weakness of the bladder, in relation to its command over the urine, may remain for some time. Paralysis of the bladder, retention, and subse- 1 Diseases of the Liver, p. 460. 2 Le Progres Medical, 15 Mai, 1875.