INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. 596 Fig. 1372. Misplaced testicle ; the left side of the scrotum is empty, and the gland is in the perineum. (From Mr. Partridge’s case.) Professor Annandale1 removed from the perineum the right testicle of a child aged three years, and placed it in the scrotum, where it remained, the operation proving successful The incision extended from the external abdominal ring to half way down the scrotum, and exposed the cord, by means of which the testicle was drawn out from its abnormal position. Several adhesions were divided, notably a strong one, a process of the gubernaculum, which bound the lower end of the gland to the tuberosity of the ischium. A pouch was made in the scrotum to receive the testicle, which was securely fixed in its new position by means of a catgut stitch passed through its lower part and the bottom of the scrotum. Both the opening in the perineum and scrotum were carefully stitched up, free drainage being provided for. The operation was performed with antiseptic precautions. A retained testicle is often attached to a shortened spermatic cord. When this condition is met with, Mr. Wood’s ingenious device, which consists in carefully dissecting up the vas deferens and its accompanying vessels from the epididymis, turning as it were the testis upside down, and fastening it in its new position by means of a carbolized catgut ligature passed through what is to become the lowest part of the testicle and the scrotum, will be found valuable. The abdominal canal is closed by means of a thick carbolized catgut suture. Mr. Wood recently shifted the left testicle of a lad from the inguinal canal where it gave a good deal of pain, to immediately outside the external abdominal ring, just within the confines of the scrotum, where, being free from muscular pressure, it ceased to give trouble. In a case recorded by Mr. W. Roger Williams, a boy two years old presented a testicle situated in the perineum, acutely inflamed, and its tunica vaginalis, which contained fluid, perfectly formed and completely separated from the funicular process of peritoneum, which, however, was patent above that point and contained a hernial protrusion.2 1 Brit. Med. Journ., vol. i. p. 7. 1879. 2 Trans. Path. Soe. Lond., vol. xxxiv. p. 168.