32 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF TIIE (ESOPHAGUS. the anterior walls, after inflammatory adhesion to outside tissues, caused usually by the subsidence of tumefied lymphatic glands, which in shrinking- draw the side of.the tube into a funnel-shaped sac, constricted at its margin by recession of the muscular coat.1 A case in which the apex of the sac was thus agglutinated to the trachea at its bifurcation, is illustrated by Zenker and Ziemssen.2 (Fig. 1177.) Such diverticula are most frequent at this point, and are rarely found at any considerable distance therefrom. They are rarely deeper than from 9 to 12 millimetres, and are usually less than 8. The orifice is round or elliptic, and variable in size. (Fig. 1178.) Other diverticula have been attributed to hernia-like protrusions of the mucous membrane through ruptures of the muscular coat, sus- tained by falls or blows, or by violent efforts of deglutition. They have likewise been attributed to strictures of carcinomatous,3 and perhaps of other origin. When low down, such a diverticulum may overlap the orifice of the stomach in such a way as to prevent the entrance of food.4 Etiology.—General dilatation may be congenital.5 A number of reported cases are apparently congenital, there having been no stricture below them to favor mechanical distention.6 Other instances are apparently due to mechanical distention the result of constriction at the cardia.7 The lesion has been attributed by observers to blows on the chest,8 to lifting heavy weights,9 to detention of a hot solid bolus,10 to gastric fever,11 to distention by large quantities of water,12 to oesophagitis,13 and to fatty degeneration.14 It is not unlikely that inflammation following injury may he the starting point of the process in cases of pathological origin. It is occasionally due to stricture at the cardia in connection with stricture at the pylorus,16 and exceptionally to stricture at the pylorus alone, with limited distensive power in the stomach.16 Paralysis, softening, and ulceration favor dilatation from distention. Annular dilatation is almost always due to mechanical distention above a stricture, whether congenital, cicatricial, or due to morbid growth or foreign body. Instances are on record of annular dilatation from all these sources. Carcinoma is less frequently a cause than has long been generally supposed, probably because it undergoes degeneration so soon, and thus presents less resistance to pressure. Pharyngeal diverticula are sometimes due to congeni- tal defect, and sometimes to pressure, perhaps to both causes in most instances. This defect, according to Bardeleben and to Billroth,17 is attributable to par- tial external closure of one of the branchial fissures, the internal opening remaining patent. True oesophageal diverticula are attributable to defect or rupture of the muscular coat, permitting hernia of the mucous and interme- diate coats; or to external traction, the result of agglutination with swollen and inflamed tissues. Symptoms.—The symptoms of general dilatation are impediment to the passage of food into the stomach, hyper-salivation, and regurgitation—some- times of unaltered and sometimes of fermented food—ultimately culminating in dysphagia and aphagia. The impediment to swallowing sometimes exists I Bokitansky, op. cit. 2 Op. cit. 3 Grisolle, Bull, de la Soc. Anat. 1832, p. 113 ; cited by Michel (a posterior pouch at middle portion of oesophagus). 4 De Guise, Dissertation sur l’Anevrysme, suivie de Propositions Medicates. Paris, An. xii. ; cited by Mondiere (Arch. Gen. de Med., Sept. 1833, p. 34). 5 Zenker, Ziemssen’s Cyclopaedia of Pract. Med., vol. viii. p. 51 (autopsy of a seven-months child, seven days old). 6 Cases of Hanney, Chiaje, Luschka. 7 Cases of Lindau, Rokitansky, Wilks. 8 Hanney, Purton. 9 Davy. 10 Spengler. II Chiaje. 12 Oppolzer. 13 Stern. 14 Klebs. 15 Lindau, Casper’s Woch., 1840, S. 356 ; cited by Zenker and Ziemssen. 16 Klebs, ibid. 17 Clinical Surgery, p. 130. London, 1881.