131 HEMORRHOIDS. 2. Mr. Whitehead’s method of excision, combined with torsion and bring- ing together the divided mucous surfaces. 3. Removal with the ecraseur of Chassaignac or the wire of Maisonneuve. 4. The application of various acids and caustic pastes. 5. The injection of carbolic acid or other caustic or astringent fluids into the body of the pile. 6. Punctuate cauterization of Demarquay, Reeves, and others. 7. Linear cauterization of Voillemier. 8. Removal by the galvanic-cautery wire. 9. Removal by the clamp and scissors’ applying the actual cautery to arrest hemorrhage. 10. Dilatation of the sphincter muscles. 11. Ligature. 12. Removal by means of the screw-crusher. Excision is an operation which was much practised in the early part of this century. In cases in which the hemorrhoids are not very large or very numerous, it is in my opinion one of our best modes of procedure, as it is followed by very slight pain only, and rapid recovery ensues. I have had cases in which the wounds were soundly healed on the sixth daj7. In performing excision I first gently hut fully dilate the sphincter muscles, and employ a retractor to keep the anus well open ; I then seize the bowel deeply, above the pile, and cut the latter off at its base, not letting the bowel escape from the volsella until all bleeding has been arrested by torsion of the arteries. Rarely more than two vessels spirt and require twisting. 1 wait for a little while to see that all hemorrhage has ceased, and then I treat the other piles in a similar manner. After all the arteries have ceased to bleed, I place a piece of cotton-wool, previously saturated in a solution of tannin and water (strength, one ounce of tannin to one ounce of water), within the anus as high as the scissors have cut. In no case has any recurrent hemorrhage taken place. This operation must be done slowly and carefully, and therefore occupies far more time than either ligature or crushing, which is a decided drawback to its employment, as I hold that prolonged anaesthesia is if pos- sible always to be avoided. About five years ago, Mr. Walter Whitehead, of Manchester, introduced a modification of this old method of excision, which he believes to be more in harmony with the principles of modern surgery. I will give his own description :— After it had been decided to excise the hemorrhoids, a day in the following week was fixed for the operation, and in the mean time the patient was very carefully pre- pared by diet, aperients, and rest. The operation was conducted under chloroform, with the patient in the lithotomy position. As a preliminary measure, the function of the sphincter was suspended by forcible dilatation. Two thumbs were introduced into the rectum, and the circumference steadily kneaded in every direction until all resist- ance was overcome, and the sphincter rendered absolutely passive. The patulous con- dition of the rectum thus obtained, enabled the whole mass of piles to be extruded from the anus by introducing two fingers into the vagina and depressing the recto-vaginal wall. The hemorrhoids in size and appearance resembled an average ripe tomato, and were mapped on the surface into four irregular and unequal lobes. The lobes were next divided into four segments by longitudinal sections in the axis of the bowel and in the furrows marking the intervals between the several lobes. This was accomplished without the loss of any blood. Each portion was then secured in succession by Lund’s ring forceps, and dissected with scissors; first transversely from the anal margin, and then upwards in the cellular plane to the highest limit of the he- morrhoidal growth, in this case about an inch and a half. Each segment was thus con- verted into a quadrilateral, wedge-shaped mass, the base below consisting of the hemorrhoid, and the apex above of the healthy mucous membrane of the bowel.