INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE (ESOPHAGUS. 6 Interrupted sutures should be used, and their ends should be cut close off, so that the thread may find its way into the interior of the tube and be dis- charged with the contents of the bowel. In some cases, however, it may be requisite to avoid sutures, in order that the opening may be kept patulous for the introduction of a tube through which nourishment can be injected. In case of transverse wounds, whether sutured or not, the head should be bound down towards the chest,1 to favor cicatrization. If the wound be closed by suture, attempts may be made at once to supply nourishment by the mouth. Should the wound be allowed to cica- trize without interference, it is deemed allowable to begin cautious adminis- tration of nourishment by the mouth as soon as cicatrization in its entire extent begins to be steadily progressive, say after the fifth or sixth day in longitudinal and in small transverse and punctured wounds. Under either condition, food should not be administered at first in larger quantities than a teaspoonful or so at a time. Should any food escape by the wound under either condition, resort must be had to rectal alimentation until such escape is no longer imminent. The use of tubes passed through the mouth is generally considered injurious, whether employed shortly after the receipt of the injury, when cough and retching may enlarge the wound, or after cicatri- zation has begun, when the same effects may reopen it.2 Meanwhile, thirst is to be allayed, as well as may be, by injecting water into the rectum, by periodically sponging the surface of the body, and by moistening the lips,, tongue, and gums at frequent intervals with cold water, simple or acidulated, with the juice of oranges or other fruits, with effervescing lozenges, or with pellets of ice. Cold, emollient baths, and continuous cataplasms over the stomach, have been highly recommended for the same purpose.3 Great care is necessary in returning to ordinary diet, lest the cicatrix suffer rupture, a condition under which food may escape into the thoracic cavity.4 It does not appear that stricture of the oesophagus is a likely sequel to a wound. iFistulse, however, sometimes remain. They are said to heal promptly under pressure aided by mild stimulation of their edges with the actual cautery,5 solid silver nitrate, or cupric sulphate. Plastic operations are not deemed advisable. In the treatment of wounds from within, neither solid food nor liquid should be allowed by the mouth until several days have elapsed. Then fluids may be cautiously administered in gradually increasing quantities, the return to ordinary diet being quite gradual. Meanwhile, supplementary nourishment should be supplied by enemata. Thirst is to be allayed by enemata, by fragments of ice in the mouth, and by periodical sponging of the body ; and pain is to be subdued by the administration of anodynes, subcutaneously or by the rectum. The constitutional manifestations in all varieties of wounds are to be met on general therapeutic principles. Rupture of the Oesophagus.—Rupture of the oesophagus is an accident of rare occurrence. It takes place during violent retching and vomiting, usu- allv during a hearty meal or after it. Thirteen cases tabulated by Macken- zie",6 and one since reported by Purslow,7 probably comprise the entire record. The rupture is most apt to take place just above the diaphragm. It may take place as low down as the cardia, however, and may even extend into the stomach.8 The rent is usually longitudinal, only a single example of trans- 1 See Vol. Y. p. 642, supra. 2 Cooper, Lectures on Surgery, vol. ii. 3 Larrey : op. cit., p. 156. 4 Larrey, case cited. 5 Baudens’s case, already cited. 6 Op. cit., vol. ii. p. 178. 7 British Med. Journ., March 28, 1885, p. 658 (an infant aged eleven months). 8 Graminatzki, Ueber die Rupturen der Speiserohre. Konigsberg, 1867 ; cited by Mackenzie.