LITHOTRITY. 302 or not a calculus is really present, and, if so, whether the case is one fitted for the operation of lithotrity. Instruments for Exploration.—Considerable advances have of late years been made in the construction of instruments for exploration. It may be said: 1„ That the instruments must be metallic—either silver, platinum, steel, or copper; I much prefer steel. It is of small moment whether they are solid or hollow—some prefer one, some the other—but it is of much moment they should not be perforated with eyelets, nor furnished with stylets. If catheters alone are available, they should be deprived of their stylets as soon as they enter the bladder, when the urine must be retained by the thumb or index finger placed over the end. 2. Of still greater moment is the shape of the instrument. It should have a short, abrupt curve. One of the shape delineated in Fig. 1274 is the best suited for Fig. 1274. Sound for exploring bladder. general purposes. It differs from Van Buren’s in being of uniform size throughout, and from Benique’s in not being bellied backwards at the curve— both these instruments appearing to me objectionable. The surgeon should also be provided with similar instruments of a longer curve—like that of the ordinary catheter—and corresponding to the usual curve of the urethra. Although this is different in different persons, the curve long since adopted by Pare, afterwards by Ileurteloup, and more recently still by Thompson, is that which would seem to be most generally approved in America, namely, a curve equal to one-fourth the circumference of a circle three and a third inches in diameter. Usually, the stone is most easily detected with the sharp-curved instrument, but in some situations the longer curve is serviceable. 3. The size of the sound should be much under the calibre of the urethra to be examined—not so small as to permit the urine to flow away too rapidly, yet not so large as to interfere in any degree with the easy manipulation of the instrument when in the bladder.1 Endoscope.—In cases of suspected stone, Cruise’s endoscope has been repeatedly used, but with what advantage I have yet to learn. I have, after a fair trial commenced in 1867, discontinued its use, and I can conceive of no case in which more reliable information cannot be obtained with other means of diagnosis. In my hands it has signally failed to fulfil the expectations which I had formed regarding it. Whatever value it possesses in detecting inflamed 1 I have hitherto failed to recognize that relationship between the size of the urethra and the circumference of the flaccid penis which is described by Dr. Otis, and have not infrequently resorted to what Mr. Berkeley Hill claims as “the only exact mode of learning the size of a given urethra,” the use of the urethrometer ; I have, on the other hand, often had occasion to notice the frequent absence of the relationship referred to, and especially since the adoption of Bigelow’s method has led me to use catheters of the largest size. It will, I think, be found that Dr. Otis’s rule will not be found applicable in Canada, especially among French Canadians. This was well marked in two cases in which, a few' years since, I operated in presence of Mr. Reginald Harrison, then in Montreal, when a small urethra was met with in a youth of large proportions, and a large urethra in another of very moderate proportions. Much more readily do I admit another statement of Dr. Otis, germane to this question, to wit, that we must recognize and respect a distinct individuality in each case, as regards the size of the normal urethra, irrespective of standards, or even of physical dimensions.