OPERATIONS FOR OVARIAN AND UTERINE TUMORS. 833 The clamp is suitable only for long pedicles with much vascular and tough fibrous tissue, and is as rarely used here in ovariotomy as it is commonly in hysterectomy. The ligature, cut short, with return of the pedicle to the abdominal cavity, is the plan preferred by most American operators, and in their hands has given uniformly the best result. The ligature used may be either thin car- bolized Chinese silk, No. 3 or 4, or Turner’s braided silk of heavy quality. With this a blunt artery-needle is threaded, and carried with some force through the middle of the pedicle, as low down as practicable. The ligature may now he either so cut as to be double—in which case it is firmly tied in a double knot in a figure-of-eight, after crossing the two silks—or the two halves of the pedicle may be successively secured by a single ligature, which is tied strongly on one side, and then reversed and tied similarly on the other. Then the pedicle is seized with a compression-forceps (Sims’s pre- ferred) on each side, just below the ligature; the cyst is cut away a half inch above it; the cut surface is carefully examined to see if any oozing occurs ; if all seems secure, the ligature is cut short and the pedicle is dropped into the pelvic cavity. Should the pedicle be unusually thick and vascular, it may still be ligated as above, but in three portions instead of in two. The other ovary should then be examined, and, if cystic, should be removed. (5) The management of adhesions is often a source of difficulty and of great embarrassment. If long and vascular, they may easily be ligated at two points and divided with scissors between. But when short and dense, and connected with important organs, like the bladder, intestines, liver, or stomach, they can only be separated with extreme difficulty. This is best done with the handle of a scalpel, using the blade as little as possible, and if more bleeding occurs than is easily arrested by torsion, ligatures of cat- gut or fine Chinese silk must he used freely. When bleeding occurs deep in the pelvis it is very embarrassing from want of light; but this can now be supplied by the small portable electric light, which is extremely ser- viceable as long as it can be kept in order. If adhesions are inseparable from the tumor, as sometimes happens, a small piece of the cyst-wall may be cautiously cut out and left with its attachment, after cauterizing its edge with strong carbolic acid, or with the actual cautery ; the secreting membrane or face of the cyst-remnant should be removed. (6) The peritoneal toilet is a convenient and expressive term originating in Germany, to indicate the scrupulous cleanliness and finish in which the peritoneal surface must be left. We owe this care, perhaps, more to Dr. Keith, of Edinburgh, than to any other writer; and it is the means of saving many lives which would otherwise be lost. The cardinal points are that no bleed- ing points, however small, must be left, and that the entire peritoneal surface must be left perfectly dry. For this purpose it is all to be gone over with fresh sponges and ligatures, with the utmost care, just before closing the abdo- minal wound. In doing this the large sponges are' used to push hack the intestines. (7) In closing the abdominal wound, these flat sponges again come into use. One is laid upon the viscera just under the line of the wound, a Sims’s forceps being attached to its upper and one to its lower edge; over this the perito- neum is sewed up with catgut sutures as already described, the sponge being gently drawn out just before the stitches are tightened. It will often be saturated with bloody serum, although it was perfectly wrung out and dry before it. was placed in the abdomen. Two silver sutures, one at either end of the wound—or three if the wound has been a long one—should be carried through the entire thickness of the abdominal wall and the peritoneum, before the sponge is removed. All the sponges and forceps are now to be vol. vi.—53