19 MALFORMATIONS OF THE (ESOPHAGUS. drawal ;l and the same object has been accomplished by passing a large catheter along the line2 to tree the hook by pressure, and then drawing it within the instrument. An impacted bone, resisting dislodgment with for- ceps, has been removed in the following ingenious manner:3 A few lead pellets, firmly secured to suture-wires, were dropped down the oesophagus, the meshes of wire engaging the bone which was released from its position by pulling on the wires two or three at a time, and varying the threads at inter- vals. In ease a foreign body is so firmly fixed in the cervical portion of the oesophagus that it cannot be dislodged by instruments passed through the mouth, the operation of external oesophagotomy is required. It is especially indicated in cases associated with stricture of the oesophagus. According to the expressed opinion of nearly all writers, it is of little avail, and often of none, in cases of foreign body in the thoracic portion of the oesophagus. Yet it has been successful in apparently the only two cases4 of the kind in which it has been attempted, though it must be mentioned that the object was comparatively high up, in both instances. It is possible that the linked for- ceps (Fig. 1169) might be used after oesophagotomy with advantage, or that a specially constructed appliance for seizing a body and boring through it could be contrived, so as to render extraction or propulsion practicable, even for foreign bodies in the thoracic portion of the gullet. (Esophagotomy should be performed as soon as it is found that intra-oesophageal methods are fruitless. Delay merely compromises the success of a legitimate operation, and adds risk of serious sequelte, such as ulceration and septicaemia, in con- sequence. (Esophagotomy for foreign body is usually successful,5 even in the infant,6 if performed at an early date. After expulsion or extraction of the foreign body, the abnormal phenomena ■gradually subside, as a rule, the patient recovering within a few days, unless serious injury has been sustained by the oesophagus. Should grave injury have been sustained, the following sequelae may follow: oesophagitis, circum- scribed or diffuse, often proceeding to suppuration ; or peri-oesophagitis, whether suppurative or not, terminating, perhaps, with perforation of the oesophagus into the mediastinum, the air-tube, the pleura, the aorta or other bloodvessel. These sequelae must be treated on general principles. Rest of body, and administration of nutriment by enemata, of tonics, and of anodynes by enema or by hypodermic injection, would constitute the general course of management, to be associated with the prompt evacuation of any abscess pointing externally, or otherwise accessible. The operative details of oesophagotomy will be considered hereafter. Malformations of tiA (Esophagus. Collations show that between sixty and seventy cases of oesophageal malfor- mation are now on record,7 four having been reported in the United States.8 1 Leroy, Medical Examiner ; Rev. Med.-Cliir. de Paris, t. ii. p. 110, 1847 (cited by Luton). 2 Laurent, Lancet, vol. ii. p. 745. 1SS2. 3 Torrance, Brit. Med. Jour., June 19, 1875, p. 810. 4 Begin, loc. cit., t. xxxiii. p. 244, 1832 (cited by Terrier) ; Arnold, II Morgagni, Anno IV., p. 352, 1864 (also cited by Terrier). 5 Asbhurst, Principles and Practice of Surgery, 4tli ed. Phila. 1885 (fifty-two times out of sixty-five). 6 Billroth, Arch. f. klin. Chir., Bd. xv. S. 678 ; Id., Clinical Surgery, p. 131. London, 1881 (a child one year of age, with stricture). 7 Mondiere, Arch. Gen. de Med., t. ii. p. 505. 1833 ; Hirschsprung, Den Medfodte Tillukning af Spiseroret, cited by Mackenzie (op. cit., vol. ii., London, 1884) ; Michel, Dictionnaire Encyclo- pedique des Sciences Medicales, Art. CEsophage. Paris, 1880. 3 Catalogue of the Boston Society for Medical Improvement, p. 128 (two cases, specimens 456, 457) ; Catalogue of the U. S. Army Medical Museum. Washington, 1867 ; Lamb, Philadelphia Medical Times, 1873, p. 705.