173 THE PATHOLOGICAL RESULTS OF URINARY CALCULUS. The primary stone, therefore, acting precisely like any other foreign body, may become the active agent of organic tissue-changes through the instru- mentality of the process of traumatic inflammation, while the secondary stone is essentially little more than an excretion solidified by accident. It is indeed rather a symptom or result of previous disease than a malady; and although by its size and weight it may react upon the malady which caused it, and may become a traumatic factor increasing the intensity of that malady, yet it always continues to occupy a position second in importance to the original disease. A knowledge of this fact is of value in prognosis. When a primary stone is removed from the urinary passages spontaneously or surgically, provided that no other stone remains and that the surgical removal has caused no se- rious damage, the disease is entirely cured. ISTot so, however, when a secondary (phosphatic) stone is removed. The patient is not well; one of his symptoms indeed has ceased, but the persistence of the cause which gave rise to that symptom (the secondary stone) may furnish the same symptoms (another stone) again. Consequently, the curative treatment of a patient practical 1 v begins after the extraction of his secondary stone, where in the case of extraction of a primary stone it virtually ends. The only exception to this rule is the case where a secondary phosphatic crust forms about a primary nucleus, the latter having alone served as the efficient cause for the catarrhal condition in the presence of which the phos- phatic deposit occurred. Here, the foreign body being removed, the chronic inflammation which it occasioned may and often does spontaneously subside. In the kidney, a calculous infarction may lead to a cyst, but it rarely does so. A stone retained in the pelvis of a kidney may block the ureter and occasion acute congestion, suppression, uraemia—if the other kidney lie diseased—and death. It may occasion hydronephrosis. It may grow enor- mously, distend the pelvis of the kidney, and cause atrophy of the secreting substance. It may give rise to pyelitis and catarrhal changes in the mucous membrane of the pelvis of the kidney, going on to calculous pyelitis, pyelo- nephritis, pyelo-nephrosis, or perinephric abscess. At any point along the ureter a stone may be arrested in its passage, and partly or wholly occlude the tube. In such a case, in addition to the results of occlusion at the renal orifice of the ureter, the tube itself becomes dilated above the point of obstruction, ulceration of the ureter at the point pressed upon may occur, granulations arise, and hsematuria with blood-casts of the ureter follow. In the bladder, at first subacute and then chronic cystitis is caused by pri- mary stone, leading ultimately to chronic vesical catarrh with secondary incrustation of the stone by phosphates. The chronic catarrh is marked by acute exacerbations, and may lead to extension of inflammation to the kid- neys, and to all the sequences of a chronic cystitis. In the urethra, a stone may lodge in the prostatic sinus, or behind any point of physiological or pathological (stricture) narrowing of the canal. There it may grow to a large size and cause catarrhal changes in that portion of the mucous membrane upon which it presses, and in the distended urethra behind it. Therefore its accretions in the end are phosphatic, whatever its primary structure may have been. The foregoing remarks apply to calculi belonging to the primary group. All calculi forming outside of the urinary tract—sub-preputial, scrotal, peri- neal, in connection with abscesses and fistulie communicating with the urinary tract—are secondary, phosphatic, and symptomatic of urinary contact with the products of chronic inflammation. When such concretions, wherever situated, within or without the urinary