APPENDIX. 1188 two yeeres, before I could possible draw the receipt from him. In the end by gifts and presents he gave it me, which was this, to boyle young whelpes new pupped, in oyle of 1 iHies, prepared with earth wormes, with turpentine of Venice. Then was I joyfull and my heart made glad, that I had understood his remedy, which was like to that which I had obtained by great chance. See then how I learned to dresse wounds made with gunshot, not by bookes.1 Pare gives us a little example of his egotism at the close of this chapter, when he says: “ and if there were four hurt, I had alwayes three of them, and if there were question of cutting off an arme or a legge, or to trepan, or to reduce a fracture or dislocation, I brought it well to passe,” . . . “and when wee had resolved to doe any serious worke of chirurgery, twas Ambrose Parey that put his hand thereto, where I did it promptly and with dexterity, and with a great assurance, in so much that the sayd physitiou admired me, to see me so ready in the operation of chirurgery, seeing the small age which I had.” He was then about twenty-seven years old. We can pardon all this vanity and egotism in a man who, three and a half centuries ago, taught surgeons to use ligatures in place of red-hot irons for the arrest of hemorrhage from divided bloodvessels; who revolutionized the treatment of gunshot wounds by proving that they were not poisoned wounds, and that simple dressings, yea, even the balm of puppies, was much to be pre- ferred to cauterization with boiling hot oil: that lacerations of the perineum could be readily cured ; and that pus could be drawn from deep-seated wounds and abscesses by means of drainage-tubes ; and who also taught the profession many other practical lessons, and devised many other useful improvements, in operative surgery. Thomas Gale, maister in chirurgerie, was a military surgeon of England, whose writings exercised a powerful influence in their day in the correction of errors concerning the poisonous character of wounds inflicted by gun- powder and by bid lets. The gunpowder was, previous to his writings, supposed to he venomous, while the ball was believed to accumulate heat in its flight, and thus presumed to act upon the tissues through which it pene- trated as an actual cautery. Such had been the teachings of the most eminent writers on the subject down to the middle of the sixteenth century. Gale successfully confuted these errors of Jerome of Brunswick, Giovanni di Vigo, Alfonso Ferri, and others. Thomas Gale was horn in 1507, w^as a contemporary of Pare, and received his professional education from Richard Ferris, sergeant-surgeon to Queen Elizabeth. Gale served in the army of Henry VIII. at Montrieul, in 1544, and also with King Philip at the battle of St. Quintin, in 1557, and afterwards settled in London, where he practised surgery with distinction. He published four small works on surgery in the year 1563. “ An institution of a chirurgion, containing the sure grounds and principles of chirurgerie.” “ An enchiridion of chirurgerie, conteining the exact and perfect cure of wounds, fractures, and dislocations.” “ An excellent treatise of wounds made with gunshot, in which is confuted both the grose errour of Ierome Brunswicke, John Vigo, Alfonce Ferrius, and others, in that they make the wound venimous which commeth through the common pouder and shot. And also there is set out a perfect and true methode of curing these woundes.” “ An antidotarie conteining hid and secret medicines, simple and compound, as also all snch as are required in chirurgerie.” Besides the above, he published in 1579 a translatioli of “Guido’s question- aries of chirurgerie,” and an epitome of the third and fourth books of Galen ; and in 1586 he published several treatises under the following general title- 1 Ibid., p. 1144.