INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. 584 testicle hangs much lower than it ought to do, the veins of the scrotum being sometimes enlarged as well. In well-marked cases the veins may be seen like dilated cords occupying the region of the cord, and in bad cases they extend below the testicle. The dilated veins form a pyramidal tumor (corpus pyramidale vel pampiniforme), as they are convoluted below, but become less tortuous as they ascend to enter the inguinal canal. The tumor is soft and elastic to the touch, and the dilated veins are readily seen and felt; they can be rolled under the skin, and from their feel are usually^ compared to a bag of earth worms. The size of the veins varies, diminishing when the patient lies down and dilating when he stands up; on coughing, the dilatation of the veins gives rise to an impulse, but to a gentle, not a forcible one like that communicated by a hernia. Some varicoceles remain permanently small and devoid of symp- toms, but others give pain and may increase to a great size. The presence of a varicocele, which may be of trifling importance, often gives rise to much mental worry, and to an apprehension lest its possessor may become impotent. These fears become confirmed and exaggerated if the patient be unfortunate enough to fall into the hands of a quack. In some cases the pain is so severe that surgeons of note have been induced to remove the organ ; severe pain is more likely to be observed in young than in aged patients. A middle-aged man suffered acute pain for some days, owing to the recent protrusion of an inguinal hernia, on the left side, on which a varicocele had existed for some time without causing any distress. The pain was not relieved until a well-fitting truss was applied. Diagnosis.—Varicocele has been mistaken for hernia, which it resembles in the following particulars: disappearance ou lying down, increase on stand- ing, and impulse on coughing. The feeling conveyed to the fingers by the varicose veins is very characteristic, as the impulse is slight, and attended often by a thrill given by the passing blood. The pyramidal shape of the swelling is characteristic, and most resembles a hernia which contains a piece of adherent omentum. The test universally employed is the following: Place the patient on a couch, reduce the swelling, make firm but not excessive pressure on the ex- ternal ring, and then make the patient stand up, still maintaining the pres- sure ; in the case of a varicocele, since the spermatic artery conveys blood to the part freely past the finger, the veins will fill out to their full size. A hernia would be effectually retained by the pressure on the ring. A congenital hydrocele disappears slowly on pressure, and returns slowly, is transparent, feels fluctuant, or is firm on pressure, and has a slight impulse on coughing. It is a good plan in cases of varicocele and in other affections of these parts to examine the spermatic cords and testicle with both hands simultaneously. When the testicle is inverted the vas deferens runs along the front part of the cord. Treatment of Varicocele.—The palliative treatment ordinarily recom- mended is support for the scrotum and testicles by a well-fitting suspensory bandage, the avoidance of warmth, which relaxes the parts, the use of a cold douche to the genitals night and morning, and the application of lint kept constantly wetted with muriate-of-ammonium lotion. Aperients are to be taken regularly to remove constipation, and tonics to improve the general health. Excessive venery is to be avoided. Mr. Keitley strongly recommends a suspensory bandage devised by himself, which consists of a coarse network bag, and an India-rubber ring which presses on the veins.