APPENDIX. 1198 says: “In heat of fight, wether it be at sea or land, the chirurgeon ought to consider, at the first dressing, what possibility there is of preserving the wounded member; and, accordingly, if there be no hopes of saving it, to make his amputation at that instant, while the patient is free of fever.” In another place Wiseman speaks of the importance of posture in the reduc- tion of hernia, and mentions an engine, as he calls it, for holding a man with his heels above his head, for this purpose. He also argues in favor of a cut- ting operation in strangulated hernia. Pins were his favorite means of coaptating wounds, by the use of which he recognized the superiority of metallic sutures. Ilis treatises are eminently worthy of a careful perusal even at this day. With all his sound sense and ripe experience, he was, nevertheless, superstitious and credulous in reference to the efficacy of the Royal Touch in the cure of scrofula, or the king’s evil, as it was termed. He declares that. “ his majesbie cureth more in any one year than all the chirurgeons of London have done in an age,” and also avers that “ I mj'self have been a frequent eye-witness of many hundreds of cures performed by his Majestie’s Touch alone, without any assistance of chirurgerie; and those, many of them, such as had tired out the endeavours of able chirurgeons before they came thither.” Lawrence Heister, and his “ General System of Surgery,” deserve a brief notice. Heister was born at Frankfort on the Main, in 1683, and died in 1758. He was a pupil of the celebrated anatomists, Ruysch and Rau, of Am- sterdam, and an accomplished army surgeon, having had ample experience in 1707-9, in the war between the French and Dutch in Flanders. He wrote a large number of surgical dissertations and treatises, some of the most im- portant of which were on wounds, particularly those by gunshot. At the time that his work on surgery was written, no similar treatise existed in Germany, in which country great ignorance and want of skill existed among surgical practitioners. His treatise was an admirable one, and was published in many languages, and in many countries. First in German, at Nuremberg, in 1718, and subsequently in French, Spanish, Italian, Latin, and English, the translation into the last-named language having been published in quarto, at London, in 1748. It was profusely illustrated with a large number of hand- some copper-plate engravings, in which not only the instruments, but also the operations themselves, were most graphically exhibited, even to the extent of showing the surgeons and their assistants, with all the accessories, actively engaged. This “system,” and Heister’s large volume of “ cases,” were im- portant additions to surgical literature. James Young, an English surgeon, of Plymouth, and a contemporary of Wiseman, published a treatise on several surgical subjects, at London, in the year 1679. A portion of the title of this book read thus: “ with a new way of amputation and speedie method of curing stumps.” Whatever value the flap operation in amputations may possess, it is to Lowdham, of Exeter, and to James Young, that the credit of being the first to propose and describe it must be awarded. One of the most distinguished surgeons of France in the eighteenth century was Jean-Louis Petit, who was born in 1674, and died in 1750. He was the inventor of' the screw-tourniquet, still in common use. His treatise on the Diseases of Bones was the first of its kind. The first edition appeared in 1705. It was soon translated, and published in many languages and countries. Petit did much to improve surgery, and was highly honored, the king naming him Director of the Royal Academy of Surgery, and appointing him his own First Surgeon. “The Chirurgical Works of Percivall Pott” are contained in three hand- some octavos, which embrace some of the most valuable contributions ever