UKINARY CALCULUS IN TIIE FEMALE. 297 "bilaterally, through a part or through its entire length, and sometimes into the neck of the bladder. Generally this method is combined with dilatation of the neck of the bladder, and the wound is sutured afterwards, a soft or sometimes a Sims’s hard catheter being left in the bladder for several days. The objection to this method is that it is wholly unnecessary. Any stone that can be taken out by slightly cutting the urethra, may be more easily removed by litholapaxy with less dilatation of the urethra. If the calculus is so large that the urethral incision must extend into the neck of the bladder, there is great danger of permanent incontinence, and an incision through the vesico-vaginal septum is preferable and less likely to be followed by a failure of the wound to heal, while if vesico-vaginal fistula does unexpectedly result, its subsequent closure is a comparatively simple matter. The supra-pubic operation in the female is also not often called for. Its mortality, statistically, is less than in the male subject, a little more than 12 per cent, as compared with about 30 per cent. In the case of very large stones and of certain foreign bodies, perhaps in some cases of encysted stone, and possibly in very young children with small vaginae, the high operation might be chosen with advantage. In such cases the Petersen-Guyon-Perier opera- tion already described (page 291) would be applicable, substituting a thin rubber bag inserted into the bladder through the urethra (Milliot’s method), and there inflated, in place of the vesical injection, and draining afterwards by a tube passed through the floor of the bladder and out by the vagina, instead of by two tubes through the abdominal incision, irrigation being practised through a catheter passed at stated intervals through the urethra. There remain to be considered urethral dilatation, litholapaxy, and vesico- vaginal lithotomy. Urethral Dilatation.—Franco proposed the use of a dilator, but found that when the muscular fibres of the urethra were torn, permanent incontinence was likely to ensue. The introduction of anaesthesia has made safe dilatation more possible, and this method, as applied to the extraction of small stones less than half an inch in their smallest diameter, is entirely suitable for use at the present day. Bryant places the limit of size at which a stone may be safely extracted by dilatation, at a circumference of two inches. Various instruments and methods have been devised for the purpose of dilating the urethral canal, some acting rapidly, some slowly. Sponge-tents, water-pressure, and all means of slow dilatation have fallen into disuse. At present it is customary to employ a two-bladed or three-bladed forceps and the fingers, commencing with the little finger. I have found the most conve- nient instrument to be the dilator of Dolbeau (page 287). By introducing the different sizes of this dilator, it becomes presently very possible to intro- duce the finger without force, and then with a narrow-bladed forceps to extract the stone. I have never dilated the female urethra to a size larger than three-fourths of an inch in diameter. This I have done a number of times for the extraction of stone and for other purposes, and I have not yet met with any case of incontinence of urine as a result either temporary or permanent. The method seems an excellent one when the stone is quite small. No after-treatment other than rest for a few days, and the administration of a urinary diluent, is called for. Either litholapaxy, or ordinary lithotrity, may be employed in the female with great ease and safety. The former is applicable to all cases in which the stone can be grasped and fractured by the crushing instrument. No stone is too small for it, and it might perhaps be adopted with advantage even in cases where the stone was so small that it could be safely extracted through the dilated urethra. The only cases unsuited for this operation are, where the atone is encysted, where the nucleus is some foreign body which cannot be