INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE URETHRA. 434 produce, not a rupture of the urethra, but a veritable contused wound of the urethral wall: a scale of bone, more or less pointed, is detached from the rest of the bone, and impinges against and directly perforates the urethra. I ought here to allude to a possible source of confusion: in certain cases of contusion of the perineum, a more or less extensive fracture of the pubic bone is produced at the same time with the rupture of the urethra. Here the fracture is secondary, and has nothing to do with the mechanism of the urethral rupture. Laceration of the urethra may even be produced without fracture of the pubic hone, a simple dislocation at the symphysis having caused an over- riding of the two bones. It might even happen that this dislocation was only momentary, the bones returning to their normal position, and the rupture of the urethra remaining the sole evidence of this lesion of the pelvis. In cer- tain examples of individuals caught under falling earth, etc., especially in a case reported by Voillemier, the rupture of the urethra could only have occur- red in this way, and the same mechanism seems to me to be applicable to a case of Sir Henry Thompson’s, in which a fall vertically upon the feet was accompanied by a rupture of the urethra, which the author endeavors to explain by muscular action. This same muscular action has been invoked by the authors of the Dictionnaire des Sciences Medicates,” in two cases of rupture of the urethra observed at the IIotel-Dieu, which were probably due to either simple dislocation or unrecognized fracture of the pelvis. Pathological Anatomy.—Rupture of the urethra does not always extend through the whole thickness of the walls of the canal, so that in this lesion several degrees may be admitted, viz : (1) interstitial rupture ; (2) rupture of the mucous membrane and of the subjacent tissue ; (3) total rupture of the wall of the urethra, complete or incomplete, according as it involves the whole or a part of the circumference of the canal. This division into degrees is, however, applicable only to ruptures of the spongy portion of the urethra, the only one of which the walls include three tunics: an external or fibrous tunic; a middle tunic, made up of the spongy tissue; and, finally, an inter- nal tunic, composed of the mucous membrane and the submucous tissue. (1) Interstitial rupture.—This variety of rupture, in which the spongy tissue alone is involved, whilst the mucous membrane and the exterior fibrous envelope escape injury, is produced with extreme facility, and under the influence of a contusion which, in any other part of the body, would pass unperceived. Reybard seems to me to have given the most rational explanation of this special friability of the spongy tissue. The trabeculae of this tissue fix bounds to the vacuoles containing blood, and, under the influ- ence of a momentary blow, this incompressible fluid tends to escape in every direction, and so bursts asunder the walls of these vacuoles. Incon- sequence of interstitial rupture, a pocket containing blood is formed at the point of contusion, limited posteriorly and anteriorly by the spongy tissue which remains intact, externally by the inextensible fibrous envelope, and internally by the mucous membrane, which is pressed in toward the cavity of the urethra, and thus produces a kind of acute stricture of this canal. (2) In the second degree, there exists a rupture of the mucous membrane and of the submucous tissue, which is always accompanied by an interstitial rupture. Sometimes the mucous membrane is barely frayed at one or more points, but more frequently the rupture of the latter makes a communication between the sanguineous interstitial pocket and the cavity of the urethra; from which result, on the one hand, the passage of blood into the urethra and its escape externally, and, on the other hand, the more or less ready entrance of urine to the focus of the rupture. Only rarely, in this degree of rupture, is the mucous membrane torn through its whole circumference. Cras, however, cites an