1113 CONSTRUCTION AND ORGANIZATION OF HOSPITALS. fittings for the use of steam ; ancl there are few manufacturers of hot-water apparatus. For these reasons, repairs of the latter would be more inconve- nient and costly, although they ought in the long run to be less so, because the apparatus is subject to much less wear. In a steam apparatus, heat can be generated more quickly, although it requires more constant attention to keep up the supply. One of the special reasons for the use of the hot-water apparatus is claimed to be, that the air is warmed by a large surface at a comparatively low temperature; but in the series of experiments at the Boston Hospital, to which reference has been made, while the external tem- perature was ranging from 17째 to 50째 F., the temperature of the entering air at the registers, in three daily observations for a week, varied only from 90째 to 96째 F., and this with an average hourly supply per bed, of over 9000 feet on every day. The heating centre in a large hospital is most economically placed, as a rule, in a single boiler-house. The low pressure system is to be preferred, with the water of condensation returned directly to the boilers. The pipes should be large enough to permit the free flow of steam, and should be well protected to prevent waste of heat. There should be a radiator at the foot of each inlet-flue for fresh air, a valve for controlling the amount admitted through the opening in the outer wall, according to the temperature of the entering air, and a switch-valve to be worked from above, by which the air may he directed over the hot pipes, or allowed to pass by them with- out being warmed. Thus, varying proportions of hot and cold air may be mixed in the inlet-pipe above the radiator, affording the required tempera- ture at the register in the room above, without lessening the quantity of air supplied. The use of a fan and long ducts, with branches leading to the radiators, as a means of introducing air by propulsion, is valuable as affording a certain and absolute control of the air-supply. The great value of the fan is, that by its use the wards may be rapidly flushed out with large quantities of air, in the morning and evening. Experiments at the Barnes Hospital have shown that the use of the fan for ten minutes made the very impure air of a ward which had been closed for some time for the purpose of the test, nearly as pure as the outer air. The air-supply should be well distributed in the large rooms. It should be brought in at the lowest part of the rooms and large wards, and the inlets may be located with advantage in the walls under the windows, thus warming the air that is chilled by them. There is also an advantage in placing the inlets midway between two windows, and thus between the heads of two of the beds, thereby serving to sweep out the air that may become stagnant between the latter. This is easily done in one-story wards. When an upper ward is to be warmed, the flues must be carried up in the thickness of the walls, if possible where there are piers that increase the thickness, and in terra-cotta or metal pipes, to prevent loss of heat. In a ward so arranged that there is one inlet for every two beds, each inlet should have at least one foot of clear opening, which is equivalent to 72 square inches per bed as pre- scribed. There should be a separate and ample air-supply for each of the service-rooms, separation-wards, etc. The ventilation proper, by outlets for the escape of foul air through openings in the ceiling, with ridge ventilation, or flues leading to an aspirating chim- ney, has been considered to some extent in connection with other matters, and is a necessary complement to the arrangements for supplying fresh air. The outlet-openings should equal, at least, the area of the inlets. In a one-story ward there may be six or more such openings, according to the number of beds, and an allowance of one square foot of opening to each bed, making a