LITHOTOMY. 261 upon the finger in the usual direction—outwards and slightly backwards upon the right side of the prostate—and to find upon dissection that the incision has commenced near the middle line, and perhaps severed the seminal ducts. Therefore, it is wiser in making the second incision to direct it more laterally than obliquely outwards and backwards, and in this way, if the parts have been distorted by previous distention, the line of the incision will fall about where it belongs. The incisions have been made designedly in this direc- tion, obliquely outwards and backwards on one side and transversely on the other, by Senn, who has made a profound study of the dimensions of the pros- tate relatively to the question of lithotomy. The only modern novelty in the direction of the internal incision for lithotomy has been proposed by Furneaux Jordan1-—an incision directly upwards; but it has nothing to recommend it. Operations through the Perineum.—The operations in the perineum which call for a separate description are the lateral and the bilateral, with their modifications, the median, medio-lateral, medio-bilateral, and the peri- neal lithotrity of Dolbeau. The rectal operations are almost as obsolete as the apparatus major and apparatus minor Preparations for all Perineal Operations.—These are the general prepara- tions already advised (page 216). All previous examinations as to the con- dition of the kidneys, the size and position of the stone, its composition, the number of stones, and the possibility of encapsulation, must have been attended to. Obstacles, such as contracted pelvis, hernia, etc., must be noted. Hydro- cele should be tapped. If stricture is present, its size and calibre must be determined, and the plan of its management decided upon. The condition of the bladder as to inflammation, and the size of the prostate, are factors in the computation. The rectum must be thoroughly cleared by an enema a few hours before the operation. Quinine, morphine, jaborandi, and diuretic mineral waters are useful here as preparatory means, just as they are in the preparations for lithotrity. The perineum should be shaved. Five assistants are required: one for the ether, one to steady each knee, one to hold the staff-— the position of honor—and a fifth to hand the instruments and do any other work that may be needed. The table should be about thirty inches wide and very solid, furnished with a pillow and an old blanket covered with a rubber cloth. Its lower end should face a window. Beneath it are placed an old carpet or rug, and a broad basin containing sawdust, bran, or an old wet towel, so that the blood and urine dropping into it may not spatter. The operator selects such a chair or low stool as shall place the reclining body of bis patient upon the table, a little lower than his chair as he sits upright. At the operator’s right, within easy reach, stands a small table covered with all the instruments which can possibly be needed, the pot of vaseline for lubrication, the ligatures, and every- thing except the sponges. It is better to employ some flxed form of retentive apparatus than to trust to the unaided hands of assistants, be they never so skilful. The old-fashioned figure-of-eight bandage has given place to other forms of band, more solid, less liable to get out of order, and easier of adjust- ment. There are two varieties now in use: the bar, and the anklets and wristlets. The bar is a stiff iron cylinder with a solid extension-piece inside (Fig. 1244), by means of which it may be considerably lengthened, throwing the knees widely apart. At the ends of the bar are broad straps which hold the leg on either side just below the knee. A broad leather baud completes the apparatus. This passes over the front of the shoulder on either 1 Brit. Med. Journ., Jan. 24, 1880.