ANOMALIES OF THE TESTICLE. 593 which form the plexus pampiniformis, were seen lying comparatively loosely attached to the gland and to the surrounding parts. Owing to peritonitis, the testicle had become matted to the walls, or to the contents of the abdomen. Mr. John Wood reports the case of a man, aged fifty, whose left testicle was detained in the abdomen by adhesions between its globus major and the mesenteric border of the sigmoid flexure of the colon, due to mesenteric disease in early life. At times, the inguinal ring is too small to permit the passage of the testi- cle, whence its frequent detention in the inguinal canal. In a case under my care, the testicle just passes the external abdominal ring, and can be pressed back through the ring into the canal at pleasure.1 This may not have been the original condition of things, but may have been due to dilatation of the ring by the growth of the testicle, and to a slight tendency to protrusion of the bowel, a not uncommon complication. A large epididymis has in some instances caused a retention of the testicle in the inguinal canal. The gland is as a rule small, being undeveloped. In some cases the cord is twisted, but amply long enough to allow the tes- ticle to pass into the scrotum ; in others it is undoubtedly shorter than it ought to be, and helps to detain the organ in the inguinal canal. In several cases I have noted numerous well-formed bands of fibrous tissue passing from, the pillars of the external abdominal ring to the testicle. The left testicle is more often retained than the right; the tendency to this complaint may be hereditary, and in an example which has come under my observation, both father and son had one testicle retained in the inguinal canal; both had large families. Men suffering from retention of the testis on one side only, are, as a rule, free from other malformations, but when the defect is bilateral, it is apt to be associated with imperfect development of the penis and other parts. We have now to consider the value of a retained testicle or testicles as organs of reproduction. Hunter held that when both glands were within the abdomen they were usually small and healthy, though imperfectly developed and useless as reproductive organs; but that some cases seemed to be excep- tions to the rule. In some cases the individual is feminine, in others mascu- line, in appearance. Recent investigations with the microscope show that the semen is destitute of spermatozoa. In animals, as in men, retained testicles are small and soft, and their possessors are capable of unproductive intercourse. In cases of retention of one testicle, the patients are called monorchids, and have spermatozoa in the vesicula seminalis on the side of the descended tes- ticle, but noton the defective side; such men can beget children. On the other hand, cryptorchids, who have both testicles retained, are always sterile. Mr. Curling2 has narrated the particulars of nine cases in which the ejaculated semen of men with retained testes—cryptorchids—or with a single retained testis, the other having been removed or its duct obstructed, was destitute of spermatozoa. In the few cases submitted to microscopic examination by myself, also, the semen has- contained no spermatozoa. In a retained testis removed by Mr. Curling in operating for strangulated hernia, the scrapings from the body of the testicle contained cells un- dergoing metamorphosis into spermatozoa, and the fluid from the epididymis contained large numbers of spermatozoa in a quiescent state. Dr. Beigel3 has reported the case of a man aged 22, whose penis was well developed but whose scrotum was small and empty. In each of the inguinal canals a testicle could be distinctly felt, that on the left side being small but not wasted. He could have intercourse frequently and vigorously, and, when continent, had from time to time 1 Trans. Path. Soc. London, vol. viii., p. 263. 2 British and Foreign Medico-*'hirurgical Review, April, 1864. 3 Virchow’s Archiv, Bd xxxviii. S. 144. VOL. VI.—38