INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE FEMALE GENITALS. 758 sive phase of circular insanity, hysteric insanity, simple or epileptic mania, imbecility and idiocy in their periods of excitement.”1 Enforced continence after free indulgence in coition, as occurs to a widow, has been a cause of the disease in some cases ; while in others it has been produced by venereal excess or self-abuse.2 Certain diseases of the uterus and of its appendages some- times produce an excitement which gives rise to nymphomania ; but in such cases its intensity is rarely as marked as in affections of the nervous system, its duration is shorter, and it only exceptionally has the same consequences. Other causes are diseases of the vulva which produce intense itching, para- sites of the vulva or of the rectum, the abuse of drastic purgatives, certain affections of the kidneys or bladder, etc. The question as to certain medi- cines or foods exciting venereal passion in the female, is still an open one. The ancients held that a diet of fish had this effect, because Venus was born of the sea, while in modern times cantharides has been used for the purpose. In regard to the effect of this drug, Gubler observes that its aphrodisiac action has not been shown except in persons of the male sex, and that there is not recorded an explicit and detailed case among females. Still, he believes that, though the fact is unproved, woman is not exempt from a certain degree of genesic excitement resulting from vesical and urethral cantharidism. Treatment.—The observation of Hippocrates led him to assert: Ex utero furentes, si concipiant sanae fiant. Fabre says that there are examples of nym- phomaniacs who have been tvell during pregnancy, but in whom the disease has returned after their confinement. Marriage therefore, as he points out, ought not to be, though it lias been, recommended as a therapeutic means it would be an inefficacious remedy, and a frightful evil for the husband. The importance of hygienic and moral treatment, in certain cases, is most important: intellectual diversion, pure thoughts suggested to cast out the unclean, plain and simple food, cheerful and constant occupation, daily bodily exercise even to slight fatigue, remaining in bed only long enough for neces- sary sleep, and a most careful avoidance of all that can excite sexual passion.3 The exhibition of anaphrodisiacs may also be required; the potassic bromide is generally regarded as the most reliable of this class of remedies. Local disease, as of the sexual or adjacent organs, is to be met with appropriate treatment. Extirpation of the clitoris, or section of the nerves supplying it, has been successfully resorted to in some cases of nymphomania ; but, rational as at first glance the practice may seem, it has often disappointed the expec- tations of the operator, and lias only exceptionally been beneficial. Nympho- mania is held by some writers to furnish an indication for extirpation of the ovaries, and the operation has accordingly been done under these circum- stances; but in some cases no permanent benefit has resulted, and it remains to be proved that this mode of treatment is justifiable. Certainly its pro- priety is questionable if it be true, as claimed by many of the advocates of the operation for other diseases, that removal of the ovaries does not impair sexual enjoyment. Nor does it seem probable that the removal of any sexual organs which are in a normal condition, can cure a disease dependent proba- bly in the majority of cases upon faulty mental or cerebral conditions, either hereditary or acquired. 1 Foville, op. cit. 2 Bouchereau, Dictionnaire Encyclopedique des Sciences Medicales. 3 In the female there are two chief seats of pleasure in sexual intercourse—the clitoris and the vagina. I have thought that by making sedative applications to these, possibly the excessive desire for coition manifested by the nymphomaniac might be lessened or subdued. Acting upon this hypothesis, I have recently prescribed, in a case of nymphomania, applications of a solution of muriate of cocaine.