INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE RECTUM. 120 well. If the instrument cannot be quickly passed, it is better not to persevere, as irritation will be set up and damage done. I strongly disapprove of forcible dilatation, such as that produced by Todd’s dilator, as obstinate ulceration only too often results; the amount of pressure made cannot be The only kind of stricture without ulceration which in my opinion should be divided, is that in which the constriction is semicircular or annular, and feels to the touch as though the bowel were encircled by a cord. These strictures are so resilient that, even if dilated to their fullest extent, they will very soon return to their previous state of contraction. All other strictures without ulceration I treat by gentle dilatation with conical bougies, very gradually increasing the size of the instrument. I pass a bougie twice or thrice a week, or daily, but not often the latter, being guided by the nature of the case; that is, I never set up irritation if I can possibly avoid it. As all strictures of the rectum show a marked tendency towards return, patients should be warned never to be long without having the bougie passed, and, as soon as any of the old symptoms recur, at once to obtain treatment; if this advice be acted upon, but little fear need be entertained of a dangerous relapse, and I have now a very large number of patients who have been in this way kept for ten years and upwards in perfect comfort. Stricture of the rectum cannot be quickly and permanently cured by any means; an experience of nearly twenty-five years has never shown me a single case quickly cured, which has not as speedily relapsed. Cancer of the Rectum. Cancer of the rectum usually runs its course in about two years. In many instances the duration of life is much less. I have watched a case of encephaloid which terminated fatally at the end of four months from the appearance of its earliest symptoms. Colotomy was performed by me when I first saw the patient, two months before death; but I do not think that it delayed the progress of the disease one day, although it afforded relief from excruciating pain. On the other hand, I have seen many cases of scirrhus and epithelioma where the patient lived quite four years and a half (and even longer) without any surgical interference. Cancer is commonly a disease of middle life, but I have seen encephaloid rapidly fatal in a boy of seventeen ; and some years ago there was in St. Mark’s Hospital, under the care of my colleague, Mr. Gowlland, a boy, not thirteen, with cancer of the rectum. Scirrhus and epithelioma in old people usually run a very slow course, which may be accounted for by the fact that in old people the vital forces are sluggish in disease as in health. It has been said that cancer is more frequent in women than in men. As regards the rectum, this is directly the reverse of my experience. In my statistics many more men are victims than women. From my experience, too, there seems to be no ground to consider cancer of the rectum as a heredi- tary malady. Some varieties of cancer may in their early stage be only and purely local. But this sta*ge is of very short duration, and the above statement is hardly, certainly not practically, true of the more malignant forms. By this I mean that as soon as a growth exhibits itself, so as to be noticed by the patient, the disease is commonly already constitutional, and the system is infected. As a rule, cancer of the rectum during some part of its course is most horribly painful, the function of the part enhancing the suffering; but I have seen patients in whom there has not been excessive pain, particularly in