1096 APPENDIX. have some small buildings or portable huts of wood, for cases of infectious disease. Great care should be taken in laying foundations to make them damp- proof, and to intercept the natural flow of ground water that might find its way under the buildings, on the sloping surface of a deep stratum of clay or underlying rocks, and thus cause a constant unhealthy moisture of the. cellars. For free ventilation of basements, the buildings may be raised on arches in hot climates, and in colder latitudes there should be abundant window space in the basement walls, to be left open in summer. The basement story should be at least five feet high, and the floor should be made as impervious to moisture as possible, with cement and concrete. It is an objection to have the basements too high, so as to invite the danger of their being used for wards; or too commodious, when, under some stress of municipal economy, they would be liable to be used improperly for storage or other purposes. The external walls are best made hollow, as such walls may be plastered upon the inside and keep dry without lathing, which makes spaces that harbor dirt and vermin. Impervious wall-surfaces are the best, and as Parian cement is costly and liable to crack, well-painted jflaster is more serviceable; it can be washed with soap and water. The plaster can be scraped off and renewed, if the wards become unhealthy. The wards should be ceiled; all corners should be rounded, in the plastering as well as in the wood-work, and there should be as little of the latter as possible. This may be of well- filled ash or oak; plain, varnished pine is much used and very good. The floors should be of narrow strips of hard pine, or other such wood, closely laid with grooved joints. They may be laid on iron beams, with brick arches and concrete to make them fire-proof, and non-conducting as to sound when one ward is placed over another. Tiles, slate, and marbleized slate, may be used to advantage in water-closets, particularly about the urinals and the partitions between them, and for the floors. In wooden buildings, for warmth in winter, care should be taken to make the outer walls tight by double plastering and careful construction. Form and Construction of Hospital Wards.—The unit of construction is the ward. The two chief things to be thought of are: how to get the sick well, and how to do this in the quickest and least expensive way. The number in each ward should be as many as is consistent with efficient nursing. Facility of service is important as regards economy, as well as good service. From 20 to 32 beds are allowable in a ward, according to the character of the cases. Smaller wards increase labor, but a number of rooms for one or two persons are useful for special cases, or for necessary isolation. The oblong ward, with opposite windows on the sides, is the best form for the larger ones, as it gives the greatest economy of bed space. The width should be from 24 to 30 feet, and 28 feet is satisfactory for all open wards. This allows two opposite rows of beds to stand with their heads 18 inches from the walls, for the nurse to pass freely around the bed, and leaves a clear space of 12 feet in the centre of the ward. A linear wall space per bed of 7J feet gives a floor area of 105 feet per bed, and the length of a ward of 24 beds will be 90 feet. A height of 12 or 14 feet in the centre of a slightly-arched ceiling is ample ; and these dimensions will furnish an air-space per bed of 1470 feet. In some good hospitals, in which this average cubic space is largely exceeded, it is by increasing the height above 12 or 14 feet, which is of doubtful utility. With ceiling ventilation at the lower level, the warm foul air escapes sooner from the room instead of occupying the waste space of a higher ward, at the risk of falling and mixing again with the air below; while the same volume of air-supply will more frequently change the whole atmosphere of the room.