1151 HISTORY OF SURGERY. After reading the above, one cannot but believe that Hippocrates had dis- sected the human body, and also made practical demonstrations on the cadaver. Continuing the subject, he speaks of the frequency of this disloca- tion, and remarks that many non-professional persons know how to reduce it. In those who are subject to frequent recurrence of this accident, he says, they can reduce it by putting the list in the axilla, forcing the jbint upward, and then bringing the elbow to the chest. His next method is to bring the forearm to the spine, then to grasp the elbow, bend the arm upwards, and with the other hand support it behind the articulation. The third method, that by the heel in the axilla, has by some recent writers been erroneously credited to the inventive genius of our good master Ambroise Pare, in the sixteenth century. It is so well described in the third section of Hippocrates’s Treatise on Articulations, that its transcription in this place may be interest- ing to the reader as a further illustration of the minute and careful style of this primitive writer on surgery:— Those who attempt to perform reduction with the heel, operate in a manner which is an approach to the natural. The patient must lie on the ground upon his back, while the person who is to effect the reduction is seated on the ground upon the side of the dislocation ; then the operator, seizing with his hand the affected arm, is to pull it, while with his heel in the armpit lie pushes in the contrary direction, the right heel being placed in the right armpit, and the left heel in the left armpit. But a round ball of a suitable size must be placed in the hollow of the armpit; the most convenient are very small and hard balls, formed from several pieces of leather sewed together. For without something of the kind the heel cannot reach to the head of the humerus, since, when the arm is stretched, the armpit becomes hollow, the tendons on both sides of the armpit making counter-contraction so as to oppose the reduction. But another person should be seated on the other side of the patient to hold the sound shoulder, so that the body may not be dragged along when the arm of the affected side is pulled ; and then, when the ball is placed in the armpit, a supple piece of thong sufficiently broad is to be placed around it, and some person taking hold of its two ends is to seat himself above the patient’s head to make counter-extension, while at the same time he pushes with his foot against the bone at the top of the shoulder. The ball should be placed as much on the inside as possible, upon the ribs, and not upon the head of the humerus. Several other methods are described : over the shoulder of another person ; over a pestle or pole; over a chair, a double door, or a ladder; with a special instrument called the ambe, which is a cushioned lever supported by a stand- ard, with which apparatus Hippocrates reduced not only recent but also old dislocations. All the dislocations which occur in the human body are described with care and wonderful accuracy, as are also various methods of reduction for each. Indeed, if we were obliged to rely solely upon what Hippocrates wrote upon the subject of dislocations, it would not be so serious a retro- cession and misfortune to mankind as most persons would suppose; for in his treatise on articulations will be found minute and accurate descriptions of all the luxations of the joints, and methods of reduction, which, in in- genuity and practical utility, if not equal to those contained in modern treatises, are certainly not far short of them. His description of the four dislocations of the hip-joint reads like that of a modern book. In section 71 of this treatise he clearly describes the method of reduction by manipula- tion, saying: “ In some the thigh is reduced with no preparation, with slight extension, directed by the hands, and with slight movement; and in some the reduction is effected by bending the limb at the joint, and making rota- tion.” Space will not admit of extensive quotation from this treatise. Every student will be amply repaid who will read the works of Hippocrates