INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTION. BY JOHN ASHHURST, Jr., M.D., PROFESSOR OF CLINICAL SURGERY IN THE UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA. The general subject of Obstruction of tbe Bowels belongs rather to the Practice of Medicine than to Surgery, and hence it is not designed, in the following pages, to do more than briefly glance at the pathology of the various lesions which may cause obstruction, considering more in detail the circum- stances on which the diagnosis, and in consequence the treatment, of the several varieties must depend, and the various operative measures which sur- geons employ for their attempted relief. Among the more important contri- butions to the literature of the subject which have appeared within the last two decades, I may especially mention the monograph of the late Dr. W. Brinton,1 that of Leichtenstern,2 those of Bulteau,3 Rafmesque,4 and Peyrot,5' that of Mr. H. 0. Thomas, of Liverpool,6 and above all the recently pub- lished Jacksonian Prize Essay of Mr. Frederick Treves,7 of the London Hos- pital, which work gives, upon the whole, the best account of this formidable condition with which I am acquainted. I would also commend to the reader a careful study of the pages devoted to this subject in the late Sir Thomas Watson’s well-known lectures on the Practice of Physic—pages which for graphic eloquence of style, as well as for soundness and fulness of clinical instruction, have not been surpassed by the writings of any more recent author. The most important division of cases of intestinal obstruction, from a clinical point of view, is into the acute and the chronic: the former are attended by symptoms of a most urgent and distressing character, run a rapid course, and, unless relieved by art, commonly terminate fatally in the course of a very few days ; the latter make comparatively slow progress, present a milder train of symptoms, not unfrequently yield to treatment, or even undergo spontaneous cure, and, if they do prove fatal, do so at a much later period than the acute cases. In practice, however, instances not very seldom occur which seem to stand midway between these extremes, and may properly be called examples of subacute obstruction ; and while acute may, as well observed by Pollock, occasionally subside into chronic cases, the latter much more frequently, at some period of their history, suddenly become acute. 1 On Intestinal Obstruction. London. 1867. 8 Ziemssen’s Cyclopaedia of Practical Medicine, vol. vii. New York, 1876. 3 De l’Occlusion Intestinale an Point de Vue du Diagnostic et du Traitement. Paris, 1878. 4 Etude sur les Invaginations Intestinales Chroniques. Paris, 1878. c De PIntervention Chirurgicale dans l’Obstruction Intestinale. Paris, 1880. 6 The Treatment of Intestinal Disease and Obstruction, 3d ed. London, 1883. 7 Intestinal Obstruction : its Varieties, with their Pathology, Diagnosis, and Treatment. Lon- don, 1884.