314 LITHOTRITY. bladder contains some fluid, and a practical method is to suggest to the patient not to make water immediately before submitting to the employ- ment. of the lithotrite. Sir Henry Thompson’s plan is a good one—to ask the patient “ to retain bis urine for a little less than his accustomed period before the sitting; that is, if naturally he is able to retain his urine for about an hour, he is requested to pass it forty minutes before the time of the visit.” Tn this way the inconvenience of an empty bladder, and the still greater inconvenience of a too full bladder, are both avoided. But even this moderate desire for a small quantity of urine in the bladder cannot always be gratified, as in the case of the gentleman from Quebec to which I have already referred. I reluctantly employed the lithotrite in this case, yet I never had a more favorable recovery. Since then I have never regarded with any apprehension the opening and closing of a lithotrite in a bladder which was intolerant of the presence of even the smallest quantity of urine, nor has it occurred to me to supplement the vesical contents with warm water. Injections have been recommended in the erroneous belief that without them the play of the instrument would be restricted, or that the walls of the bladder would be caught between the blades of the lithotrite and injured. But it should be borne in mind that, as already pointed out, the walls of a healthy bladder are not closed and contracted upon its contents, but that they lie loosely and lightly in contact, receiving w ithin them the water which trickles along the ureters without any vis a tergo or pumping power in kidney or ureter. The degree of fulness of the bladder admit- tedly influences the search for stone. Acting on this assumption, Civiale had constructed a lithoclast—a small, short instrument with a groove along the centre of the male blade—which permitted the urine or the injected fluid to escape slowly; and, while it was escaping, the instrument was turned in every direction to search for the stone. Size of Lithotrite.—It was formerly the custom, sustained by the approval of the late Sir W. Fergusson, to commence the operation with a large-sized lithotrite ; to break the stone into pieces, and then to take a smaller instrument to reduce the fragments to less proportions, so that they might more readily pass through the urethra. But if the lithotrite used in the first instance he not too large, not more than 11 or 12 of the English scale—one not too large to be easily manipulated, yet not so small as to be in danger of being bent or broken—it is better to keep to the same instrument throughout. The length of the instrument must be proportionate to tbe length of the canal. In children the canal is short, and a short, small-sized instrument suffices; but in cases of enlarged prostate in elderly persons, where the canal, especially at its prostatic end, may be elongated several inches, the necessity for a long lithotrite is obvious. A lithotrite of about twelve inches is sufficient for ordinary purposes; but, in some cases, anything under fourteen and a half inches would be inadequate. Method of Operating.—The patient’s body should be so elevated that the surgeon’s right arm, while operating, may be nearly horizontal. If the patient is in bed, the surgeon should be seated at his side; if the patient is on the operating table, the surgeon should stand. The operator being upon the right side of the patient, who lies upon his back, with his head and shoulders elevated and his thighs flexed, the closed lithotrite, well oiled and in the right hand, is slowly introduced within the meatus in the same manner as an ordinary catheter, the penis being sup- ported merely—not seized—by the index and middle fingers of the left hand. It is of small moment on which side the operator chooses to place himself; but it is of importance that, having elected one side, he should keep to it.