508 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE URETHRA. Besides the need of checking diarrhoea, when it is present, by every possible means, it is necessary to regulate the stools, by having an emollient enema administered every day. The introduction into the rectum of pieces of rag, of an oesophageal tube open at both ends, of a silver canula furnished with an apron, may up to a certain point prevent the adverse action of intestinal gases and solids, by closing the fistulous orifice in the intervals of defecation, and even by exercising a moderate compression on the fistulous track. 3. In some cases, these simple measures suffice to bring about the cure of the fistula. But much oftener they remain inefficacious, and under such circumstances it is necessary for the surgeon to act directly upon the fistulous orifice and track. Recourse may be had at first to repeated cauterizations of the rectal orifice, and even of the track, either with different solid or liquid caustics, or with the galvanic or thermic cautery. This method, which has succeeded sometimes in cases of narrow fistula, also fails very often, and is not suitable for fistulae with very large orifices. In such cases recourse must be had to the knife. Unfortunately, the various attempts which have been made in this direction have furnished more reverses than successes, which is explained, on the one hand, by the difficulties which are met with in the very execution of the operation, and on the other hand by the injurious influence of urine, and of fecal matters and gases, on the parts which have been freshened and united by sutures, hindering or destroying the work of cica- trization. The operative method most generally followed sensibly approaches the method of treatment of vesico-vaginal fistuke, called the “ American method.” It consists in vivifying the circumference of the rectal opening, previously exposed with a Sims’s speculum, over a very extended surface, and in then suturing the parts with silver wire. In a case of extremely large fistula, which had resisted suturing in the ordinary way, 1 had recourse to the following procedure, which gave me a good result: I cut a large mucous dap on one side of the rectum, which I dissected off and left adherent at one edge of the fistula; it was then turned over and sutured by its free edge to the pre- viously vivified semi-circumference of the fistula. A complete account of this interest- ing case, and a description of the operative procedure, have been given by Devin. The numerous failures of autoplastic methods have led some surgeons to propose other operations, more or less grave, with the object of effecting the cure of urefillro-rectal fistuke. Thus Sir Astley Cooper carried out the follow- ing procedure: A catheter having been introduced into the bladder, he made an"incision on the left side of the raphe, just like that for lithotomy, until he felt the staff through the bulbous portion of the urethra. Then he plunged a double edged knife into the perineum, between the prostate and'tlie rectum, so as to lay open the fistulous communication which had been established between the urethra and the intestine. A pledget of charpie was introduced into the wound. Afterwards the urine flowed by the perineal wound, the fistulous opening in the rectum gradually closed, that in the perineum promptly cicatrized, and the urine resumed its normal course. Desault proceeded in a different manner, opening a free passage for the intestinal matters by division of the external sphincter and of the rectum up to the fistulous orifice. Finally, when there is in the perineum a fistula which opens at the same time into the urethra and the rectum, the perineal sinus might be made use of to incise, upon a grooved director, as in the operation for anal fistula, the whole thickness of the tissues between the opening and the bowel. The intestinal matters, escaping easily by this large opening, would no longer