466 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE URETHRA. the canal, and one is surprised to find that the stricture permits the passage of a much larger bougie. The enlargement obtained is evidently not the effect of the pressure exercised by the bougie, since this was in nowise tightly grasped; it is the result of the inflammation excited in the stricture by the presence of the foreign body. By the action of bougies of gradually increas- ing size, the work of resorption continues, the contractile elements atrophy, and the urethra ends by resuming its normal calibre. If, instead of proceeding with gentleness, a very large bougie is used immediately, a violent inflam- mation is developed, followed by ulceration of the mucous membrane and by destruction of the stricture. This is why I have admitted two methods of inflammatory dilatation, one atrophic, the other ulcerative. Mechanical dilatation is very different from the preceding. Its object is to violently separate the walls of the urethra, and to tear the stricture open without previous inflammatory action. Nevertheless, this inflammation is produced afterwards, and it lias, as we shall see, its share in the cure. In practice, moreover, these two modes of action of dilatation combine and lend a mutual support. Thus it is that when one has succeeded in provok- ing inflammation of a stricture and resorption of its elements, it is customary to have recourse to mechanical dilatation to distend and to atrophy the fibrous and contractile tissues which enter into its composition. The same is the case in rapid dilatation. A single operation cannot suffice; several must be practised, and in the intervals an active inflammation is developed, which brings most efficacious assistance to the mechanical measures. To practise inflammatory dilatation, instruments are used of such calibre that they play freely in the strictured part, and their calibre is progressively increased. Each of these is allowed to remain in the urethra for three or four days, sometimes for six or seven, until an abundant purulent discharge is developed, the certain indication of an inflammatory action indispensable to dilatation. As soon as the introduction of a bougie of 7 or 8 millimetres has been attained, it is well to give up permanent dilatation and to substitute for it temporary dilatation, practised either with ordinary bougies or with metallic instruments, and prolonged for months or even for years. Such is the course which it is proper to follow in simple cases ; but numerous difficulties may present themselves, and it remains for us to examine what, in such cases, should he the conduct of the surgeon. The urethra sometimes is in a state of very acute sensitiveness, which renders the introduction or the retention of an instrument absolutely impossible, and which depends either upon a slight inflammation of the mucous membrane at the point of stricture, or upon a spasm resulting from this inflammation. In such a complication nothing succeeds better, according to Voillemier, than the superficial cauterization of which I have previously spoken. Under other circumstances the stricture is so tight that the bougie penetrates it for a certain distance without being able to pass it. It is proper to act in such a case as if the bougie had passed. After having left it in place for several hours, it is removed, and new attempts are made on the morrow and the days following; almost always one can in this way succeed in getting through the stricture without doing violence to the canal. At other times it is impos- sible not only to pass the stricture but even to engage the extremity of the bougie in it. A number of procedures and artifices have been devised to triumph over this difficulty, which usually depends less on the narrowness of the channel than on theexcentric situation of the opening; bougies are used, the extremities of which have been bent, twisted, shaped like bayonets, anc coated with collodion (Fig. 1832); bougies of whalebone, uniting to the most extreme delicateness sufficient rigidity, but dangerous on account of this very