263 LITHOTOMY. of adjustment. Another, Reliquet’s, has two iron bracelets, one for the wrist and one for the ankle, the latter with a retentive piece which passes under the foot. They are strapped on and hooked as usual. All preparations being made, the patient is etherized in bed, and then carried to the table. The anklets and wristlets are next put on separately. Then the grooved staff is inserted. Tillaux relates that in one case operated upon by Civiale and Nelaton, these distinguished surgeons, having first bound their patient, had to release the bands before they could introduce the staff. The anklets are hooked to the wristlets, and the patient is drawn down to the foot of the table, the sacrum resting upon it, with the back flat., and the nates very slightly projecting beyond its end. The assistants then steady the patient, holding the pelvis perfectly square, with the thighs equally flexed and abducted. The operator convinces himself that the end of the staff is in contact with the stone, and requests the chief assistant to verify the fact. If the stone cannot be struck by the staff in posi- tion, it is better to defer the operation. Except in cases of known encystment, the staff can always be made to touch the stone, unless the latter be cpiite small and lying in a bas-fond behind the prostate. In such a case, a finger in the rectum will raise the stone and make it strike the staff The possibility of there being a false passage which the staff may enter, makes this precaution- ary verification of its contact with the stone imperative. The chief assistant holds the handle of the staff vertically upwards from the body, sometimes slightly inclined toward the patient’s head, and bulging in the perineum if the operator so desires it. His thumb presses flatly against the rough side of the handle, three fingers embrace the penis in front, and the little finger passes behind the dorsum of the member. With his left hand he draws up the scrotum, maintaining the line of the raphe exactly in a central position. With the hands so placed, the curve of the sound is to be held firmly hooked up under the symphysis. The flat side of the handle of the staff must be constantly held transversely to the long axis of the patient’s body. The chief assistant must allow nothing to divert his atten- tion ; no curiosity in leaning forward to watch the cut must disturb him, and at nothing less than the command of the operator may he alter this relation of affairs until the knife has entered the groove of the staff and fairly incised the urethra. The operator now examines the rectum, and satisfies himself that it is empty, ■ and that the curve of the sound passes the prostate. He touches the descend- ing pubic rami, and presses centrally through the perineum upon the sound, mapping out mentally the outlet of the pelvis and the anatomical relations of the soft parts in the perineum. Having calmly taken in the situation and thought over his plan, the operator is ready, and the patient is in position for any operation upon the perineum. I. Lateral Lithotomy.—The instruments required for lateral lithotomy ai’e a steel staff of relatively large size—at least 21 (French) for an adult—and for a child in proportion. The handle should be coarsely roughened on the side that looks toward the beak, so that the thumb of the first assistant placed against it may run no risk of slipping or allowing the instrument to turn. The old-fashioned long curve is generally preferred (Fig. 1246), the curve starting backward from the shaft and bulging slightly behind its long axis. The groove should be rather broad and deep upon the right side of the staff, winding about it as a portion of a long spiral, and should end abruptly near the tip. A modified rectangular staff (Fig. 1247) is preferred by some operators on account of the ease wTith which the groove may be struck, starting as it does