364 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE BLADDER AND PROSTATE. and forty-five years. It is generally accompanied with similar deposits in other viscera, but its independent existence in the genito-urinary organs has been noted sufficiently often for its being specified as forming one of the exceptions to the well-known law of Louis, according to which tubercles are to be found in the lungs if they are present elsewhere in the body. Hence Guibhard1 classifies cases of this affection as either primary or secondary. The deposit takes the form of miliary tubercles, which are observed chiefiy about the neck and base of the bladder. As a rule, the disease appears to extend in the course of the urinary flow—downwards from the kidneys. Coalescence of the various deposits occurs, the mucous membrane breaks down, ulceration follows, and before death takes place large portions of the lining membrane are entirely removed. The disease is of slow progress, and generally proves fatal by its extension to other parts of the urinary tract, or by pulmonary complications. Perforation of the bladder followed by fatal peritonitis as a termination of this disease has been but rarely observed. Such a case is recorded by Sir Prescott Hewett,2 where both an anterior and posterior perforation took place into the rectum. Where repair has followed tubercular ulceration of the bladder, a cretaceous cicatrix has sometimes been the result, a circumstance which has led to the suspicion that the patient was suffering from stone. The symptoms of vesical tuberculosis are in some respects similar to those occasioned by a vesical calculus, and the absence of such a ca'use for the symp- toms, as determined by the sound, is of considerable value to the surgeon in arriving at a diagnosis. Amongst the earliest manifestations of the disease, it has been pointed ont3 that attacks of premonitory hsematuria are frequently observed. Aching or burning pain in the hypogastric region, with pain and tenderness referred to the neck of the bladder, are often complained of. More or less pain usually precedes as well as accompanies the act of micturition, and there is the greatest degree of comfort when the bladder has been just emptied, though the expulsion of the last few drops often provokes most distressing spasm. As the viscus refills, the desire to evacuate its contents returns, whence the disorder is generally accompanied with considerable irritability and vesical contraction. Dilatation of the ureters is almost invariably met with in these cases; in one instance of this kind that came under my notice, the ureters were so dilated as to render them capable of acting as reservoirs for urine, the bladder being found studded with tubercle, and so contracted as to resemble a rudimentary organ. The urine is more or less purulent, often contains blood, and sometimes shreds of disintegrated tissue. The use of the sound is generally followed by hemorrhage, but it may reveal the existence of some irregularity in the lining membrane of the organ. As the disease advances, it is often accompanied with considerable variations of temperature, which, together with the presence of the other symptoms referred to, and the proved absence of stone, may be said to constitute the points on which a diagnosis is to be founded. In the treatment of this affection, regard must be had to its diathetic character. It is the local manifestation of a constitutional disorder. Recourse must lie had to those general measures which are recognized as being indi- cated when tubercle is present in any organ of the body. Locally, soothing measures, directed to the allaying of pain and irritation, are those which experience commends. For this purpose a milk diet, in connection with 1 Etude sur la Cystite Tuberculeuse. Paris, 1878. 2 Trans. Clin. Soc. Lond., 1874. 3 Tapret, Etude clinique sur la tuberculose urinaire. Archives Generates de Mtidecine, Mai et Juillet, 1878. Bierry, De la Tuberculose Primitive des Voies Urinaires. Paris, 1878.