1056 ORTHOPAEDIC SURGERY. Fig. 1500. drawn down upon the first; generally, too, it aft'ects one finger, either the ring or little finger, much more than the others; hut much variation occurs in these respects. It is rare to find more than three fingers included in the deformity, but any one may be contracted, or all, including the thumb, may be implicated in one hand; the finger which most frequently escapes is the index finger. The condition of the hand in the early stage of the affection is shown in Tig. 1498 ; the broad band of fascia extending from the palm to the ring and middle fingers is clearly seen, as well as the com- mencing flexion of the first phalanges of the affected fingers upon the meta- carpal bones. Fig. 1499 illustrates a more advanced state of the deformity, the fingers here being contracted also at the first phalangeal joint, and so much drawn downwards that the band in the palm of the hand is almost hidden from view. Fig. 1500, which is a drawing from a dissection in St. Bartholo- mew’s Hospital, London, shows the contracted band of fascia in the palm (a), with pro- longations extending to the joints of the first and second phalanges of the middle and ring fingers; the flexor tendons are seen at b, passing into the sheath c. This drawing very clearly illustrates the pathological anatomy of the affection, and proves how entirely the contrac- tion of the fingers is dependent upon changes occurring in the palmar fascia, and that it is not in any way contributed to by shortening of the tendons. Upon what cause the development of this contraction of the palmar fascia depends, has not yet been clearly made out; it has been described as an affection of purely local origin, arising from constant irritation of the palm of the hand in manual labor. Adams, who has most carefully studied the nature and treatment of the disease, controverts this theory and leans strongly to the opinion that it is of con- stitutional origin, regarding it as depending upon a gouty diathesis.1 He says that, in the majority of cases, there is “ a well-marked family history of gout, although the patients suffering from contraction of the fingers, in many instances, have not them- selves suffered from gout in any form.” Mr. Adams further remarks that he has seen “but very few cases of Dupuytren’s contraction in the laboring class, and has failed to obtain evidence of its frequent occurrence amongst any particular class of mechanics; whilst the cases that did present themselves, generally occurred in butlers and indoor servants.”2 He further calls attention to its prevalence amongst the upper and middle classes of society, to the fact that it frequently occurs in the left hand only, and also to its not uncommonly being an hereditary affection. That this affection is almost always associated with gout is supported by my own experience; of the few cases that have been met with at the National Orthopaedic Hospital, all exhib- ited well-marked symptoms, or a clear family history, of gout. In private practice, one patient only has failed to show any history of the constitutional Dissection of Dupuytven’s finger-con- traction. (After Adams.) 1 Observations on Contraction of the Fingers, etc., page 20. London, 1879. 2 Op. cit., page 22.