ORTHOPAEDIC SURGERY. 1036 tibialis anticus tendon has already been described. Mechanical treatment may be commenced on the sixth day after operation ; the reduction of the deformity must not be carried on too quickly, for the divided ends of the tendons of the extensors of the toes separate some little distance from one another, and their union will be weak, or the tendons will be lengthened too- much, if extension of the foot be rapidly obtained. The instrument employed is one similar in construction to the shoe used in the treatment of congenital varus; the toe-wire is placed on the inner side of the sole-plate, so that the forepart of the foot may be drawn inwards, and a small pad is added at a point corresponding to the arch, in order to raise the inner surface. In the case of equino-valgus, section of the Achilles tendon is required after the distortion of the foot itself is overcome. Non-congenital talipes valgus, the result of disordered muscular action, is much more commonly due to paralysis than to spasmodic contraction of the muscles. The condition of the foot present in a case of paralytic valgus is illustrated in Fig. 1490 ; the foot is everted, the inner border is placed on the ground, and the outer border forms a right angle with the outer surface of the leg. The limb exhibits that appear- ance of weakness which has been noticed as occurring in paralytic varus; the deformity results from paralysis of the tibialis anticus and posticus muscles ; the peronei mus- cles, not being antagonized by their action, produce eversion of the foot on the leg. There is a condition of paralytic valgus which is not unfrequently combined with equinus, and which requires special notice ; in cases in which there has been slight para- lysis of the extensor muscles of the toes, or in which the attack has been more severe but in which the mus- cles have fairly recovered their con- tractile power, the shortening of the tiexor muscles only occurs to an extent which prevents flexion of the foot to about a right angle on the leg ; if with this slight paralysis of the extensors there is also present some loss of power of the tibialis anticus muscle, a tendency to eversion of the foot will also exist, and the deformity of equino-valgus will be developed. The early stage of this condition is generally allowed to pass on without treatment, because very little lameness is produced, and it is considered that what defect in this respect may exist, will disappear as the child grows older and stronger—an anticipation which is seldom realized. With the limited movement at the ankle-joint in the direction of flexion, which is caused by acquired contraction of the extensor muscles of the leg and foot, a consid- erable strain is thrown on the foot in walking, and as a consequence the mobility of the transverse tarsal joint becomes increased, and an unnatural amount of upward movement of the forepart of the foot on the os calcis and astragalus compensates the loss of flexion at the ankle. The tibialis anticus Fig. 1490. Paralytic valgus.