730 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE FEMALE GENITALS. may occur in two forms, viz., either as a submucous growth, or as a diffuse growth originating in the mucous membrane. The diagnosis can only be made by means of the microscope, and the treatment is similar to that "which will be presently described as appropriate to carcinoma of the cervix. 2. Carcinoma.—This stands second among the neoplasms of the uterus, myoma being first, and, in striking contrast with the latter, and with sar- coma, it begins in almost all cases in the neck rather than in the body of the womb. According to Schroeder’s statistics, only two per cent, of uterine cancers affect the body first. The statistics of other writers make the differ- ence still greater. Thus, according to Courty, the proportion is 1 to 429 ; according to Forster 1 to 420, and according to Goldschmidt, 1 to 900. The mortality from cancer of all organs taken together is greater in women than in men, and one-third of all cancers that are observed in the female sex are those of the uterus. Etiology.—It is commonly held that the negress has a comparative ex- emption from cancer of the uterus, while peculiarly liable to myoma. The correctness of this statement may be doubted1 until further investigations are made. Gusserow’s table, including 2265 cases of cancer of the uterus, gives but two cases in persons under twenty years; from twenty to thirty years the number is almost precisely the same as after seventy years; the decade in which the disease has most frequently been seen is from forty to fifty, the next from fifty to sixty, and then from thirty to forty, while, finally, the period from sixty to seventy shows the least number of cases. It will thus be seen that there is a greater liability to the affection at certain ages. Frequent child-bearing seems to be a factor in the production of the disease, the fertility of women who suffer from this affection having been found to be slightly above the average. Schroeder says that his statistics, derived from the Polyclinic and from private practice, show that in the higher classes cancer of the uterus is comparatively rare, while in the lower classes, struggling for an existence, it is seen with alarming frequency.. Emmet’s views are in direct opposition to the results given by Schroeder. lie says, “ my own belief is that cancer of the uterus is to be found more frequently among the better classes than among the poorer ones, and that white women of this country are afflicted with this disease to a less degree than the women of older countries.” Heredity may be observed in some cases, though according to Gusserow less frequently in this than when the disease occurs in other parts of the body. The tendency of professional opinion in recent years has been to attach less importance to this cause, and more and more to regard the disease as having a local origin. ‘ Emmet attaches great importance to laceration of the cervix as a factor in the devel- opment of epithelioma. Siredey and Danlos hold that cancer has an equal intensity in all conditions, saying that rich and poor, married and unmarried women, virgins and prostitutes, all are exposed to the disease, with nothing in the previous condition of health, or in the social state, permitting us to foresee a predisposition or an immunity. Different Forms of the Disease.—Epithelioma and cylindrical-celled carci- noma are those most frequently met with. The existence of true schirrus of the cervix, doubted by" some writers, is as strongly maintained by others. Schroeder makes the following classification: Superficial cancroid of the vaginal portion, carcinoma of the cervix, carcinoma of the cervical mucous membrane, and a fourth form, which, however, is very rare, and which is 1 This doubt is expressed in consequence of the fact that in the Dispensary service for Diseases of Women in the Jefferson Medical College Hospital, several cases of cancer of the womb occur- ring in negro women have been observed, probably quite as many, proportionally, as have been seen in white women.