978 TUMORS OF THE BONES. companied by intercostal neuralgia. I practised ablation, and the pain dis- appeared entirely. Vessels like the subclavian artery, the femoral, or the popliteal, have undergone consecutive ulceration. The muscles are sometimes the seat of spasms and of contractures. Finally, certain exostoses determine complications on account of the particular region in which they are found. Their presence in the cavity of the pelvis is in some cases an obstacle to labor. An exostosis has been known to perforate the bladder, and to lead to the belief that a calculus was present. These tumors never return after removal. Diagnosis.—The age, the situation, the peculiar hardness, the exact limi- tation, and the profound immobility, are the signs which establish the diag- nosis. I shall have to return to this point in studying other bone-tumors. Symptomatic Exostoses.—I shall have but little to say about the varieties of symptomatic exostoses. They are usually eburnated. As to the early symptoms, they will vary according to the cause which has given rise to the tumor. The history, the osteocopic pains of syphilis, will play an important part in the diagnosis of the cause. When once the exostosis has been formed, its signs will be the same as those of osteogenic exostoses. Treatment of Exostoses.—Medical treatment is applicable only to exostoses of syphilitic origin, and, even with them, often leads to but incomplete suc- cess. Vigo’s mercurial plaster, and the iodide of potassium internally, con- stitute the basis of the treatment. Recourse must be had also, sometimes, to the mixed treatment. John Hunter formerly recommended phosphoric acid internally ; but this agent has been abandoned like others of the same kind. Recourse must therefore be had to surgical treatment, butl must say at once that, because of the dangers which may attend its employment, only those exostoses should be attacked which cause interference with the func- tions of an organ, or complications sufficient to authorize intervention. In cases in which an operation is contra-indicated, we should confine ourselves to advising the avoidance of fatigue and knocks, and to affording protection of the diseased part, either by an apparatus or by the application of layers of wadding. (1) Ablation.—The tissues over the exostosis are to be incised, and, when this is exposed, its base is to be attacked either with a saw, with a chisel, or with a gouge and mallet. If the exostosis is voluminous, it may be broken into quadrilateral fragments, by saw-cuts crossing each other at right angles. Twice I have practised ablation of exostoses of the lower end of the femur, which were coracoid in shape, and which interfered with walking. No ill consequences followed, and there was no return, as I was able to assure myself a year and two years afterwards. (2) Bisection.—This consists in ablation of the portion of bone upon which the exostosis is situated. This operation is especially applicable to the bones of the face. (3) Denudation.—Delpech, of Montpellier, sought to provoke necrosis by laying bare an exostosis, either solely by means of the contact of the air, or by combining with this cauterizations. These methods are abandoned, and with good reason. (4) For 'pedunculated exostoses, Follin has advised to break the pedicle without previous incision of the skin, preventing its consolidation by fre- quent motion, and afterwards to extract the fragment of bone which is then attached only to the soft parts. In a patient fifteen years old, I broke off a coracoid exostosis of the lower end of the femur in this way. After some days of immobilization, I was careful to move the fragment every day, so that union did not occur, and, the functional pain which had made inter-