169 DESCRIPTION OF THE VARIOUS TYPES OF URINARY CALCULUS. Cystine calculus is rather soft and friable, and is entirely suitable for lithotrity. Xanthine, Xanthic-Oxide, or Uric-Oxide Calculus. — Coulson1 gives a bibliography and description of the seven cases of xanthine stone which were known to have existed at the date of his last edition, the tirst discovered by Marcet in 1815, weighing eight grains (Coulson by a misprint says ounces), and the last reported in 1873, by Gail lard, removed from a boy of 13, and weighing 350 grains. Dr. Porter, of Bridgeport, adds an eighth case, the only one recorded in America, the stone having been passed spontaneously from the kidney by a young lady. It weighed 48 grains. I have reproduced its appearance in sec- tion, in the plate which accompanies this article. (Plate XXXIII., Fig. 4.) Dr. Porter’s remarks upon the case are full of interest. They appeared in the “ Xew England Medical Monthly,” for May, 1882. Ultzmann, among thousands of stones examined, never encountered xan- thine, and seems rather to doubt its existence. These stones are generally small, and resemble those of uric acid. They vary from a light to a reddish- brown, are smooth and polished externally, laminated on section, but without radiate structure, assume a waxy look when rubbed, and about equal uric- acid stones in hardness. They are generally single. They have been passed spontaneously and obtained by the aid of lithotomy—but no specimen, as far as reported, has been crushed with a lithotrite. They are suitable for re- moval by this method. Fibrinous and Blood Calculus.—Marcet was the first to describe this very rare form of calculus. ITis specimens were quite small, and were passed spontaneously by a gentleman of 50. Roberts encountered a similar calculus- voided by a man of 35. Prout has seen and described several. Scott Alison (quoted by Beale) found several in the kidney, one as large as a horse-bean. They have been described as whitish-gray, amber-colored, dark reddish- brown, and black. They are usually small. Roberts has one as large as a walnut, taken from the bladder of a sbeep. They are generally rough, and either hard, brittle, friable, with a fracture which has been described as rusty, dull, like baked clay, or of waxy consistence, or showing fibrous texture upon fracture. They are more often multiple than single. Prout believes that thej' are composed of fibrin, and all agree that their occurrence is liable to be associated with previous renal haematuria. In a neutral saline solution of one of these concretions Owen Rees found the remains of blood-corpuscles. Urostealitii ; Fatty or Saponaceous Calculus.—This material is known to have formed calculous concretions in only four instances. Two vesical calculi, from the same individual, composed of a central saponaceous sub- stance surrounded by a thick coating of phosphates, are now in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons, London. They belong to Hunter’s collection, and are described in the catalogue of 1842. The presence of the earthy soap- forming the centre of the calculus is ascribed in the catalogue to the fact that soapsuds had been used to wash out the patient’s bladder, and it is suggested that the fatty acids, combining with the earthy bases of the urine, had formed a nucleus of “ earthy soap,” which in its turn had become surrounded with phosphates. Heller2 described some similar masses in 1845, which, as small pisiform bodies, passed from a young man of 24. AY. Moore,3 of Dublin, in 1 Op. cit., p. 328. 2 Harncencretionen, S. 146. 3 Dub. Quart. Journ. of Med. Sci., vol. xvii. p. 473.