HYPERTROPHY OF THE PROSTATE. 383 expelling power of the bladder, long perhaps carried on with difficulty, sud- denly breaks down, and retention of urine occurs. In this way a very large prostate is sometimes discovered. In both of these ways of manifesting itself, prostatic hypertrophy resembles urethral stricture. On the earliest manifestations of prostatic obstruction, mechanical treat- ment should be resorted to with the same diligence that is required in the treatment of other forms of urethral obstruction. If this be not done, it is only postponing the day until the necessity is greater and the difficulty more apparent. It has already been pointed out that there are at least two condi- tions of the enlarged prostate which are unattended with obstructed mictu- rition, where either channels are formed between the masses of the growth, or the line of the urethra remains unaltered. These conditions may, as I have already said, be artificially produced to an extent capable of being useful. For this purpose I have recently devised1 some specially adapted bougies, which I use. They are of gum elastic, from two to four inches longer in the stem than the ordinary instruments, and have an expanded portion, an inch from the tip, which is made to enter the bladder. If dilata- Fig. 129S. Proetatic dilators. tion be not too rapidly proceeded with, no irritation will be aroused ; on the contrary, irritability will subside by reason of the completeness with which the bladder is emptied. Where there is residual urine, catheters of a similar shape may be substituted, thus allowing any water to be drawn off, whilst at the same time the prostate is subjected to dilatation. The above statements represent briefly my views with regard to the importance as well as the means of endeavoring to secure an unobstructed “ water way” on the earliest signs of an increasing prostate impeding mictu- rition. Without wishing to give them undue prominence, I feel that they cannot be passed over without some notice, inasmuch as a considerable expe- rience and its results have justified their claim to consideration. Though the time when mechanical interference is to be systematically employed may be open to question, there can be no doubt about the necessity for it when one of two events, both frequent in the history of these cases, occurs, namely, either the bladder incompletely emptying itself, or retention of urine taking place. The former condition has reference to the formation of a pouch behind the upgrowing gland, or to the development of sacculi, in both of which urine remains in the bladder after micturition is apparently completed. The latter arises either from the occlusion of the orifice of the urethra by the prostate, or from incapacity of the bladder to supply the necessary expelling power. Both conditions require mechanical relief. Op. cit., p. 21.