URINARY CALCULUS IN THE FEMALE. 293 thighs. The tubes are united together hy silver wire, passed through their walls, hut not into their cavity, and are attached superficially to the lips of the wound by a point of superficial suture on either side. The wound itself is closed in its upper third, the sutures being passed through the skin, superficial fascia, and borders of the recti muscles, with- out touching the bladder or the peritoneum. A few points of superficial suture are required, and a Lister dressing, or a bichloride or iodoform anti- septic pad is applied, the dressing being perforated for the passage of the tubes. Guyon says that he has been able to wash the bladder through one of these tubes, the flow returning through the other without wetting the dressing. During the period of after-treatment the dressing is removed two or three times and reapplied. The tubes are taken out at the end of a week, and in- termittent catheterization by the urethra is then resorted to. Drainage by this method is said to be admirable, and the cure is said to be complete by the twentieth day. Complications.—The complications and accidents peculiar to supra-pfibic lithotomy are three: Rupture of the bladder during preliminary distention, infiltration of the wound from bad drainage, and wounding the peritoneum. The first two of these complications have already been sufficiently con- sidered. Wounds of the peritoneum have been recorded at the hands of excellent operators (Douglas, Thornhill, Frere Come, Souberbielle, and others). Among the 478 cases collated by Dulles it occurred as a complica- tion 13 times, but only once with a fatal result. In Howe’s case, to which I have alluded, the peritoneum was opened without any evil effect. Petersen, who, in 1878, made 14 experiments with his method upon the dead subject, never even saw the peritoneum during the operation, and in the 21 eases of the Petersen method published in France, this accident has not occurred. If the peritoneum should be wounded, and the bowel exposed, a flat sponge, wrung out of a warm antiseptic solution, should be placed over the upper angle of the wound until the operation is over, and then the peritoneal rent should be united by a very fine, continuous, catgut suture, which in its turn should be buried in the healthy tissues united above it by deep sutures from without. Infiltration is usually fatal, but not necessarily so. It is to be treated on general surgical principles. Souberbielle only saw it once in 39 operations, .and Dulles only mentions it 7 times in his tables of 478. The cleaner the cut, the less tearing of the tissues that occurs, and the better the drainage, the less is the chance of infiltration. Extra-vesical Lithotomy.—A calculus in a fistulous tract outside of the bladder, or in a cystocele in the groin or labium, yields symptoms depending on its size and position. Each case becomes a special study if removal is called for, and must be met upon its merits. Cavities from which such cal- culi are removed should be scraped, and the vesical or urethral orifice of the tract should be closed, if possible. Extra-vesical lithotrity has been described as a formal surgical procedure, but it surely does not deserve the dignity of such designation. Urinary Calculus in the Female. The same causes which lead to stone formation in the bladder of the male are equally active in the female, but the physical conditions in the latter are less favorable to the retention and growth of the foreign body in the case of primary acid calculus, because the short, large urethra offers an easy exit for the nucleus, while the absence of a prostate, the rarity of sacculation, and