171 CHEMICAL ANALYSIS OF STONE. A. Organic Constituents.—I. Dissolve a little of the powder with dilute nitric acid in a thin porcelain dish, dry it over a spirit lamp, and allow it to cool. Touch the yellowish-red sediment with a glass rod carrying a drop of liquor ammonise. A beautiful purple-red (murexid) reaction shows uric acid. This reaction is the same for uric acid and the urate of ammonium. To dis- tinguish between them, boil some of the powdered stone in water. The urate is dissolved, the uric acid very slightly. The clear hot water decanted, and allowed to cool, deposits the urate. Some of this dust is collected and boiled with liquor potass8e. The fumes of ammonia are given off, recognized by the peculiar odor; yellow turmeric paper turns brown in the vapor; a rod moist- ened in acetic acid becomes surrounded with white fumes. These positive tests indicate urate of ammonium ; their failure shows uric acid alone. II. The murexid test fails. Dissolve a portion of the powder in dilute nitric acid and dry slowly with the spirit lamp; a lemon-yellow deposit is left, which shows no change with ammonia, but becomes reddish-yellow on adding a drop of liquor potassse. This reaction shows xanthine. III. The burning powder on the platinum-foil gives oft’a disagreeable sul- phurous odor. The powder dissolves in a solution of ammonia. Acids re-precipitate it. The alkaline solution, allowed to evaporate, deposits the flat hexagonal crystals of cystine. IV. The burning powder smells like burning horn. Water, alcohol, and ether fail to dissolve the powder. Liquor ammonise or liquor potassre dis- solves it, and from such a solution acids re-precipitate it. It swells up in acetic acid, and promptly dissolves in boiling nitric acid. These tests indi- cate fibrine. V. The powder melts on the foil, then swells up and gives oft’ a strong odor, recalling that of a mixture of shellac and benzoin. Ether dissolves it, and evaporating leaves an amorphous deposit, which, being heated, assumes a violet color. Vidau’s urostealith calculus gave a negative result to this test. The powder dissolves into a soapy solution in warm, caustic alkalies. It dissolves with slight effervescence in nitric acid, precipitates on evaporation without change of color, and the deposit becomes dark-yellow if touched with an alkali. These tests indicate urostealith. VI. The powder of Ord’s indigo stone, on heating' in a test-tube, developed purple-red fumes, which deposited dark-blue crystals on a cool surface. The crystals Avere characteristic, long hexagonal plates with pointed ends. The odor was sooty, like that of indigo. Strong sulphuric acid dissolved the powder first into a brownish, and then into a muddy-blue solution, which, after dilution with water and filtration, yielded a clear blue fluid. The spec- trum gave the indigo line in the yellow. Besides indigo, the stone contained phosphate of lime and a trace of blood. B. Inorganic Constituents.—When a considerable residue is left after burning the powdered fragment upon a piece of platinum-foil, the stone is composed either almost entirely of inorganic ingredients, or of organic salts, the earthy inorganic bases of which are not consumed by fire: such as the urates of potassium, sodium, lime, or magnesium; the oxalate, carbonate, or phosphate of lime; the ammonio-magnesian phosphate. I. The murexid test applied to the powder shows uric acid, but the resi- due left on heating proves the existence of an earthy base ; it is soda, potassa, lime, or magnesia. The urates generally exist in small quantity along with other ingredients; they do not alone form stone. The powder is boiled in distilled water and filtered while hot. The filtrate is evaporated and the residue brought to a red-heat. If a portion of the ash held in a Bunsen flame burns yelloiv, sodium is present; if violet, potassium.