756 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE FEMALE GENITALS. The injection should he used a short time before coition, the pelvis being elevated so that the entire vagina may be thoroughly bathed with the solu- tion. While displacements of the uterus are not such important factors in caus- ing sterility as inflammatory lesions, yet they should not be neglected, as their correction will at least facilitate the entrance of the spermatozoids into the uterus. In some cases of positional disorder of the uterus, coition in un- usual positions has been followed by fecundation; thus, in anteversion the posi- tion of the partners may be reversed, or if there be a latero-version, they may lie upon the side toward which the os uteri is directed. If the os be plugged by tenacious mucus, tlisch advises the application of a glycerine-tampon for several hours before coition, and shortly before, an injection of a solution of sodium phosphate to which sugar or glycerine has been added, each of these facilitating the action of the spermatozoids. Where the sterility has resulted from a conical cervix, or from hypertrophic elongation of the cervix, favor- able results have been obtained by amputation. Tears of the cervix are in some instances the cause of sterility, and the operation of Emmet is then plainly indicated. Various local applications are advised for cervical catarrh, the most valu- able of which, probably, is iodine in its nascent state, as first successfully used by Cheron in cases of sterility resulting from this disease. The formulae recommended are, one gramme of the iodate and ten of the iodide of potas- sium, with fifty grammes of water; and ten of citric acid with fifty grammes of water; each solution is colorless. By means of a cotton-wrapped appli- cator, the first solution is applied freely to the cervical canal, and then, a fresh wrapping of cotton being used, the second solution is similarly em- ployed, causing an immediate liberation of iodine. Of course such applica- tions must be repeated at suitable intervals, and other appropriate treatment must be conjoined. Stenosis of the cervical canal has been treated by incision and by dilata- tion ; the latter method is gradually supplanting the former. The dilatation may be gradual or rapid. In the former case, sea-tangle or tupelo tents are introduced into the cervical canal, where they gradually expand, or else graduated bougies, made of hard rubber or of metal, are used, a larger one being introduced every second or third day, and the instrument being kept in place for five or ten minutes. Rapid or abrupt dilatation is usually effected by means of two-bladed steel dilators, of which Ellinger’s is the type—Wil- son’s is an excellent instrument, and in this country Goodell’s modification of Ellinger’s is much used—complete expansion being accomplished at once, or in successive sittings; in the former case an anaesthetic should be given. The cases in which success has been most remarkable have been those in which the stenosis has been caused by anteflexion, and in which dys- menorrhoea has been a prominent symptom. Duncan believes that the benefit from dilatation is not in increasing the size of the cervical canal, but in over- coming the rigidity of the cervix. In all these operations it is important that antiseptics should be used. Considering that in four-fifths of cases of acquired sterility there are the evidences of parametric and perimetric exudation, the importance of properly treating pelvic inflammations, whether of the connective tissue or of the peritoneum, is evident; so too of the removal of inflammatory deposits that may remain after the inflammation has ceased, and of the liberation of the uterus, where possible, from adhesions that may have fixed it in an abnormal position. If the sterility be dependent upon a diathesis, or upon a cachectic condition of the system, the treatment of such diathesis or condition is indi- cated. Nevertheless, in many such cases the cure of the sterility is not desir-