GASTRO-ELYTROTOMY OR LAPARO-ELYTROTOMY. 775 to take care of the rooms in a student’s lodging house; he believed that the disease had been arrested by the operation. Dr. Chiara’s case of October, 1878, in a sextipara of 43, was not so fortunate, as she lost two inches in height after the operation, and has still, in 1885, some evidences of the dis- ease remaining. Other cases of cure might be mentioned, even in subjects long confined to bed, but those given make it probable that in its earlier stages the disease may be arrested in the manner proposed by Dr. Fehiing. Of 24 strictly Porro or Porro-Miiller cases operated upon because of malacosteon deformity of the pelvis, 15 recovered ; the prognosis of the operation in this disease is therefore not necessarily unfavorable. The Porro operation has entirely superseded the old method in most of the lying-in hospitals of Europe, and has reversed their tables of mortality completely. Where for many years every patient died, now at least 50 per cent., and in some hospitals a larger proportion, recover. It is true that antiseptic measures, preparative treatment, and early operating, have had much to do in effecting this, but there is also a very decided diminution of the death-rate due to the operation itself. It has failed in Great Britain in 9 cases out of 10, but this is due to the subject more than to the operation; in premature cases, at 2, 4, and 6 months, three cures have in England resulted from four operations. Gastro-elytrotomy or Laparo-elytrotomy. Like the Porro operation, that which was brought to practical perfection in Few York and Brooklyn in 1870 and 1874, under the above titles, was one which in idea, based upon a knowledge of human anatomy, had pre- sented itself independently and lii somewhat different types to the minds of several surgeons and obstetricians during a period of sixty-five years. The operation as it is now performed, originated with Prof. T. Gaillard Thomas, of Yew York, in 1870, who, without any knowledge of the ideas and attempts of his predecessors, first made trial of it upon the dead subject, and then, in March, 1870, upon a living woman, who, although in a dying state from pneumonia, was safely delivered of a living foetus and survived the operation an hour. This patient was a multipara of 40 years of age, and pregnant seven months, and as the operation was performed in the interest of the foetus, it is unfortunate that this proved to be hare-lipped and badly developed, so that it lived but an hour; still, the partial success of this mode of delivery established the fact, that the vagina could be opened by a lacera- tion of sufficient extent for the passage of a foetus, without endangering the life of the woman by hemorrhage. Carrying out the method of Thomas, Prof. Alex. J. C. Skene, of Brooklyn, operated in 1874 upon a rachitic sub- ject (who had been forty-eight hours in labor, and had a feeble pulse of 130), with very little better results, as the woman died in seven hours of shock and exhaustion, and the head of the foetus had been perforated. Satisfied that the plan was a promising one for a favorable case, Dr. Skene again operated, Oct. 29, 1875, upon another rachitic woman, who had been in labor eleven hours, and on this occasion saved both mother and child. He has twice operated since 1875, and Dr. Thomas once, all the women and children being saved. History.—My space will not admit of my presenting more than a very superficial record of the past of this operation, which in fact did not previously exist in the precise form in which it has been so successfully performed in the last ten years. In looking back for sixty-five years, we must bear in