APPENDIX. 1126 but upon the open ground, where a full and free exposure to the sun and air can be ob- tained, and the tents should be pitched upon the ground, and in no case should the men be permitted to excavate the earth underneath them, nor should the distance between the tents be less than that required by the Regulations. The tents should be struck twice a week, and the ground over which they have been pitched be exposed to the direct rays of the sun and to the winds, and, if possible, they should be placed upon new ground, if only a few feet distant, once a week. The troops should be required to procure the small boughs from the pine-tree and spread them thickly upon the ground covered by the tents, and should renew them once a week ; these will keep them from sleeping on the ground, which they should not be permitted to do. The cooking, especially when in camp, should be done by companies, and not by individuals or by squads, and for this purpose two men should be detailed from each company as cooks, one relieved every month, thus allowing each one detailed to be on this duty for two months. The importance of police, general and special, cannot be too highly regarded. The blankets and bedding of the men should be removed from the tents and exposed to the sun and air daily, when the weather will permit. Every tent, and the ground in and about and between the camps, should be thoroughly policed daily, and all refuse matter, or tilth of whatever kind, be buried at least three feet under ground ; and all dead ani- mals, and all offal and blood from slaughtered animals, should be at once buried at least four feet beneath the surface, and the refuse matters from stables and wagon-yards should be buried two feet under ground, or burned. In every camp sinks should be dug and used, and the men on no consideration be allowed to commit any nuisance anywhere within the limits of this army. The sinks should be eight feet deep, if the ground will permit, and have earth to the depth of six inches thrown in every evening, and when tilled to within three feet of the surface, be entirely filled up with earth, and new ones dug. No one thing produces a more dele- terious effect upon the health than the emanations from the human body, especially when in process of decay ; and this one item of police should receive especial attention. Holes should be dug near each company kitchen, in which should be cast all the refuse matter from it, and when filled to within two feet of the surface, should be filled with earth and new ones dug.1 The men should be required to wear their hair cut short, bathe twice a week, and put on clean underclothing at least once a week. The troops should have their break- fast as soon as they rise. Spasmodic efforts, in a matter of such paramount importance as police in an army, can be of no service, and 1 recommend that regimental and other commanders be re- quired to see that these suggestions, if they meet the approval of the commanding general, be fully and continuously carried into effect. It was made the duty of corps commanders and other independent com- manders of troops, and of officers of the inspector-general’s department, to enforce a compliance with the foregoing instructions, and the effect of their observance was speedily shown in the vigor and good health of the army. Whilst these details are designed for the police and sanitary care of more permanent camps, they should also govern in principle the temporary camps, where the troops remain for two or several days. On marches, the medical officer may render great service to new troops by advising that the men be ordered to bathe their feet after each day’s march when it is at all practicable; to encourage them to drink sparingly of water while on the marclp, and to omit no opportunity of refilling their canteens, a precaution that every careful commander will be glad to take. Attention to these details will save the strength of any command. On transport vessels, the guiding thought of the surgeon should be to keep the vessel dry, clean, and ventilated, and to enforce personal cleanliness among 1 It is better, as subsequent experience proved, to have barrels for this purpose, with a general sink as a receptacle at a distance.