98 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE RECTUM. skin derived from the scrotum and fixed to the coccyx, stretches across the orifice—in the first ease preventing, and in the second obstructing the outflow of meconium. IY. Those in which the anus is absent, and in which the rectum opens into the bladder, urethra, or vagina, or in some other abnormal position. In regard to the treatment to be adopted in cases of the first three divisions, there can be room for no two opinions: an outlet must be effected ; obviously through the anus, if possible, hut if not, through the sigmoid flexure in the left groin. In those cases in which a membranous septum, or a hand of skin, stretches across the orifice, the treatment is easy and successful. A crucial incision through the first obstruction, the removal of the second by means of a snip at either extremity, is all that is required. ISTot so, however, in the class of cases in which the rectum itself is more or less deficient. Here the surgical procedure is difficult, and, as a rule, not very successful. In the new-born infant, the pelvic measurements are naturally very small: the antero-posterior, from the tip of the coccyx to the symphysis pubis, and the lateral, from one tuber iscliii to the other, are each but little over an inch. When therefore it is considered that a dissection of an inch and a half or more, up the pelvis, may have to be undertaken before the blind extremity of the rectum is found, the advantages of adopting M. Verneuil’s mode of procedure, namely, excising the coccyx, appear very great. Some surgeons recommend this step after a diligent search for the gut has been already made, but I am certain that this is a mistake. I think that in a case of this kind, in which life and death are in the scales, it is the operator’s duty to give himself every chance from the beginning; and, always, of course, ex- cepting those cases in which a bulging shows that the rectum is low down, removing the cocc}7x, although it be a mere nodule, increases the space in which to work in the right direction, that is, posteriorly. If the surgeon has succeeded in finding the rectum, should he bring it down and attach it by sutures to or as near to the skin as possible? I am inclined to answer this question in the negative. If traction has to be put on the intestine to lower it, it is quite sure that the sutures will only tear or ulcerate through the wall of the gut, which will then certainly recede and fix itself at some higher point; whereas, if the intestine comes down readily without traction, I do not know that much is gained by putting in sutures, though something may be lost by preventing matter from being evacuated from between the sides of the intestine and the wound. The great tendency to contraction which exists in these cases must be overcome by most diligent dilatation, at first with the little finger, and afterwards with the forefinger, three times a day ; after some months it may he sufficient to pass the finger only once a day, and perhaps, when a year has passed, once a week may suffice. Stiil, the most rigid watch must he kept, and at the slightest sign of contrac- tion the times of dilatation must be redoubled. Supposing that, after a most careful and prolonged search for the rectum, the surgeon fails to find it, what should be his next step ? Some writers recommend waiting half a day, in the hope that the bowel may come down during straining, but I am of opinion that this chance is exceedingly small, and that the delay will considerably lessen the probability of success attend- ing an operation in the groin. The incision should he parallel with Poupart’s ligament, and should begin outside of its centre. It should be not less than an inch and a half in length, and about a third or half an inch from the ligament. After dividing the skin and muscles, the fascia transversalis is reached, with the peritoneum beneath it. I doubt if it would be possible to insure dividing them sepa-