373 PROSTATITIS AND PROSTATIC ABSCESS. described in the Transactions of the London Pathological Society since 1865, nor do I see any reference to it in the proceedings of the Clinical Society, since its commencement. Cases of the disease, however, will he found scattered throughout the medical journals, and the experience of all who have seen much of this class of disorders will include some examples. At the outset, it is not easy to determine which of the two conditions referred to we have to deal with. The exciting causes are in either case much the same, and we must look for other circumstances to determine whether the inflammation will he limited to the follicles, or will involve en masse the entire gland. We shall find that the conditions which favor the latter are such as, did they happen to he present when any part other than the prostate was inflamed, would render the occurrence of suppuration if not of gangrene probable. Parenchymatous prostatitis for the most part occurs in persons of a broken-down constitution. It is occasionally seen in tuber- culous subjects who have contracted gonorrhoea. I have had reason to suspect that previous tuberculosis of the gland had determined the result. Again, it is seen in prostates that have been rendered unhealthy by long standing stricture and cystitis, on the application of some fresh exciting cause, such as a gonorrhoea. Under these circumstances suppuration may be rapidly induced. Gangrene as a result of prostatic inflammation is exceedingly rare, but it occasionally occurs. I have seen it after lithotomy in a very unhealthy adult. There are two conditions simulating prostatitis, which'have led to the impression that this affection is far more common that it really is. The first is inflammation and suppuration around the membranous portion of the urethra, as a consequence of urethritis; and the second, inflammation and plugging of the veins which constitute the prostatic plexus. I have seen many instances of the former, where inflammation and suppuration around the membranous urethra have led practitioners into the belief that the case was one of metastasis of gonorrhoeal inflammation from the urethra to the prostate gland. And the points of resemblance are by no means isolated—- there is in fact a remarkable likeness between the two conditions. In both there is a cessation of, or alteration in, the urethral discharge; in both there is a feeling of uneasiness and weight about the perineum; in both there is some difficulty in micturition, amounting perhaps to retention ; and in both there is some tumefaction to be felt, and much distress is occasioned, by intro- ducing the finger into the rectum. So painful is this to the patient, that it often leads to an imperfect examination being made, and hence, from not exactly fixing the position of the tumefaction, an error in diagnosis arises which might be avoided. It must, on the other hand, be remembered that in inflammation and suppuration around the membranous urethra, although the part lies between the layers of the perineal fascia, there is still more or less perineal tumefaction, and that matter formed there may make its way forward and be discharged through a perineal opening. In acute prostatitis these conditions are not present, whilst in deep-seated peri-urethritis they are usually observed. Considering the relations of the prostate, and the denseness of the fascia in front of it, perineal tumefaction is not to be expected as a consequence of prostatitis, any more than swelling in this locality is to be looked for in connection with senile hypertrophy of the gland. The other condition simulating prostatitis is rare, and, as it is also curious, I will briefly describe the appearance in two cases recently under observation. The primary lesion was plugging of the dorsal vein of the penis, followed by rapid oedema of the prepuce. In the course of a few days each patient com-