PREPARATION OF MILITARY SURGEONS FOR FIELD DUTIES. 1137 of his superior officers relative to the proper disposition of the dying hospital and medi- cine-wagons are obeyed, and that they are in readiness to accompany the troops. The principal duty devolved upon him during an engagement has been to represent the medical director at the hospitals, to see that the men are properly provided for, and, when instructed to send wounded to the rear, to assist the chief ambulance officer in the proper apportioning of the means of transportation, to make the detail of medical officers and attendants to accompany the train, and to ascertain that they are provided with stimulants and other essentials to render the patients confided to them as comfortable as possible. Duties of the Surgeon-in-Chief of a Division 1. The surgeon-in-chief of a divi- sion promulgates to surgeons-in-chief of brigades all orders, circulars, and communica- tions that are received from the medical director of tlie corps, also all orders, circulars, and communications pertaining to the medical department that emanate from division headquarters. 2. He receives all reports that are made by the surgeons-in-chief of brigades, and consolidates them before forwarding them to the medical director of the corps, except the “ monthly report of sick and wounded” furnished by the regimental surgeons, and the weekly report of “ brandy and whiskey” furnished by the surgeons-in- chief of brigades; these are forwarded without any action from him. The only reports made directly by him are the “ monthly return of medical officers” of the division, which he forwards to the medical director of the corps, and the personal report to the Surgeon- General from the post at which he is serving. 3. All requisitions for medicines and hospital supplies, made by the surgeons-in-chief of brigades, are received by him and forwarded to the medical director of the corps, without any action from him, except “ special requisitions,” which are either approved or disapproved before being forwarded. 4. All applications for leave of absence and resignation on surgeon’s certificate, and all certificates of disability for discharge of enlisted men, are forwarded from their regiments through the regular military channel and referred to the surgeon-in-chief of the division by the assistant adjutant-general of the division ; each case is personally examined by the surgeon-in-chief, and his action indorsed on the official paper. Applications for leave of absence of medical officers are referred to the surgeon-in-chief by the assistant adjutant-general, for his action. 5. All details of medical officers and enlisted men for duty at division hospitals are made by the assistant adjutant-general, to whom the names, rank, regiment, and company, are furnished by the surgeon-in-chief. 6. The surgeon-in-chief of a division has no official relation with any staff officers except the assistant adjutant-general. 7. A detail of one medical officer as “ officer of the day” is made each day by the surgeon-in-chief, with instructions to visit each regiment of the division and inspect carefully its hygienic and sanitary conditions, also to visit the divi- sion hospital and see that proper attention is given to cleanliness and to the comfort of the patients; to examine the cooking and see whether the attendants perform their duties faithfully. A written report is to be furnished of these investigations. 8. Before an engagement, the detail for the “ field hospital” is announced by the surgeon-in-chief of the division ; the surgeon in charge of the division hospital remains in charge and has control of all the shelter; the officer detailed as hospital commissary provides the food; the records are kept by a hospital steward, U. S. A. Three surgeons are detailed as operators, and three medical officers are assigned to each operator as assistants. One cook, two nurses, and one hospital steward are taken from each regiment for the “field hospital.” 9. The medical officers who remain on the field at the time of and after an engagement are instructed to form their depots and locate them by brigades, and are to select their positions in compliance with instructions of “ circular” from headquarters, army of the Potomac, medical director’s office, dated October 30, 1862,1 and to examine each man before he is put in an ambulance. 10. The position of a surgeon-in-chief of a division during an engagement is, first to locate the “ field hospital” and see that the details are properly filled ; then to visit the front and confer with the ambulance officer of the division, ascertain that the depots are properly located and that the ambulance sergeants have been notified of their positions, and then report to the general commanding and receive any instructions he may have; afterwards to return to the hospital and 1 See page 1131, supra. VOL. VI.—72