952 SCROFULO-TUBERCULOUS AND OTHER STRUCTURAL DISEASES OF BONES. which may have a diameter of an inch, inclosing a sanious, yellow, oily, serous, sometimes even purulent liquid, “which gives the tissue the appear- ance of Holland cheese.” (Souligoux’s case.1) Cruveilhier thought that these cavities resulted from dilatation of the veins. But it cannot be so, because injections driven into the veins do not reach these cysts. It is more probable that they owe their origin to hemor- rhages more or less completely absorbed. They are lined with a smooth white membrane in which no vessels can be discovered. The periosteum may itself be found to be infiltrated with a sanguinolent material; the joints usually remain unaffected, the cartilages likewise. Yet a number of observers say that they have seen them softened. Perhaps compression and immobiliza- tion were the true causes of this. The flesh which surrounds the diseased bones is oedematous and flabby; the muscles pale, anaemic, atrophied, stretched or retracted, according to the deformity of the limbs. As for the viscera—the lungs, heart, spleen, liver, kidney, etc.—they present, as far as the osteo- malacia is concerned, only secondary alterations, resulting from the mechanical interference with their functions induced by the sinking in of the portions of the skeleton which protect them. In some cases absence of cadaveric rigidity has been noticed. In a large number the account of the necropsy mentions the presence of calculi in the kidneys or bladder. Fig. 1456. Section of osteomalacic humerus (left), a, enlarged medullary canal ; b, 6, 5, cysts or spaces of the medullary canal ; c, c, line of fracture dividing one of these cysts. (Mommsen, PI. XVIII.) Our knowledge of the minute alterations of the bone-tissue in osteomalacia is due especially to the labors of Virchow, Volkmann, Winckel, Schieck, Weber, Rokitansky, Rindfleisch, and Cornil and Ranvier. The following is the account given by the latter:2 “In the first stage of alteration the bones have preserved their size and do not exhibit any rarefaction; never- theless they may be divided with a cutting instrument. At this stage, it may be observed in histological preparations, that the centres of the osseous trabeculae still contain calcareous salts, whilst their borders are completely devoid of them. Only the latter parts are colored by carmine, according to Rindfleisch. It is indeed known that undecalcified bones do not take up carmine. The bone-corpuscles are such as are found in preparations of bones decalcified in chromic or hydrochloric acid. The vessels of the medulla are filled with blood. The fat-cells are less numerous than usual, and in their place there are developed round or irregular cells, sometimes fusiform or flattened. Soon the medulla is the seat of diffuse hemorrhages, which are seen in the form of ecchymotic stains or patches. Hemorrhages may also occur under the periosteum, which is now only slightly adherent to the subja- cent bone-tissue. In the second stage, the bones become considerably deformed. In this second stage the bone-trabeculae are not only decalcified throughout, but even in large part absorbed. The enlarged medullary spaces are filled with 1 Souligoux, op. cit., p. 113. 2 Trait6 d’Histologie Pathologique, t. i. p. 387.