556 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. The disease has been met with in several members of the same family. Sir James Earle1 operated on a patient whose grandfather, father, and one brother had all perished from the effects of the disease. Mr. Hawkins2 states that a father and son were in St. George’s Hospital at the same time suffering from the affection. Chimney-sweep’s cancer may attack other parts of the body besides the scrotum. In one instance a gardener who had carried a pot tilled with soot hung over his left wrist, was affected by the disease. Sir William Lawrence3 writes that he had had occasion, in a few instances, to remove chimney-sweep’s cancer from other parts of the body, for instance, before and behind the ear ; the swelling was not hard, but solid and firm, nearly equal in size to the last phalanx of the thumb, and without breach of surface. In a remarkable case of chimney-sweep’s cancer in the axilla, Mr. George Lawson4 ligatured the axillary artery and amputated the arm at the shoulder-joint. The patient, aged Gl, a sweep, had begun, long before, to suffer from “ soot-wart,” but it had given little trouble for fourteen years, and had been operated on several times; there was no glandular enlargement in the axilla or neck. The disease lias been encountered in persons who were not sweeps, and in others who, having been sweeps in their youth, had for many years quitted the occupation. After removal, the disease: may appear in a fresh part of the scrotum, the cicatrix remaining quite sound. The 'prognosis is favorable in these cases, as the disease is superficial and can be thoroughly removed when taken in time ; the inguinal glands are not affected till late in the disease. Mr. Curling narrates an interesting case of a sweep, aged 51, who had been ope- rated on five times in twenty-two years. The glands in one groin became affected and ulcerated only a few months before his death. No trace of internal disease could be detected, the cancer being strictly limited to the scrotum and groin on one side. Sir Wm. Lawrence5 removed the scrotum and both testicles from a patient who was alive .and well thirty years after the operation. Treatment.—The diseased parts are to be included between two elliptical incisions, and freely removed from the surrounding parts. The enlarged inguinal glands may be dissected out, if their enlargement be due to can- cerous deposit, and their removal be deemed advisable. Melanosis of the scrotum is a rare affection. Mr. Curling gives the particu- lars of a case which occurred in his practice:—6 A man, aged 32 years, had in Nov. 1842 a pedunculated scrotal tumor of the size of a small walnut, which was dark-colored, and had an irregular, granular surface. It had been three months growing, and had increased rapidly of late, but was not painful. The glands were not enlarged. On section the fungus appeared to spring from the cutis. Its base was hard, but the projecting part was friable; small black spots were scattered through the section of the tumor. The wound healed well, but the tumor re- appeared near the cicatrix, and the glands in the groin became indurated. In March, 1844, there was a firm indurated mass about the size of an almond in the scrotum, impli- cating the cicatrix, and an enlargement of the inguinal glands forming a tumor of the size of an orange, and a smaller swelling the size of a hen’s egg. He died in 1848, four years subsequently, from repeated hemorrhage from the rectum, having lived six years from the first appearance of the disease. The induration in the scrotum was tinged with pigment, and the glands in the groin were soft and brain-like ; the lumbar glands were slightly enlarged, and quite black on section. 1 Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. xii. p. 305. 2 Lectures on Tumors, London Med. Gaz., vol. xxi. p. 842. 8 Lectures on Surgery, p. 568. 4 Trans. Clin. Soc. Lond., vol. xv. p. 165. * Op. cit., p. 567. 6 Op. cit., p. 643.