URINARY CALCULUS. 282 in these cases, even where the urine is ammoniaeal, cellulitis and infiltration are the rarest exceptions. In the aged, the cellular tissue about the base of the prostate is not only loose, but it is also full of large veins, and in this class of cases it is probably more often that cellulitis and subsequent infiltration are due to violence in traction upon the stone, which bruises the cellular tissue, breaks the veins, and excites phlebitis and cellular inflammation—than that simple contact of urine (even under a little pressure) with the cellular tissue about the neck of the bladder first occasions infiltration, and it again cellulitis. Undoubt- edly both causes are often combined; the large stone, dragged through an insufficient cut, not only bruises the surrounding tissues but also mechanically tears open the cut widely into the cellular tissue, doing roughly what the knife could have done more surgically. I ha ve demonstrated this fact several times-upon the cadaver. A small cut is easily converted into a large tear by dragging through it a stone of disproportionate dimensions. If the cut goes too far forward in the region of the bulb, and the urine does not escape freely by the wound, infiltration of the scrotum, perineum, etc., are possible. The treatment of these conditions involves the free use of stimulants and all sustaining measures, incisions where they are possible, drainage, and anti- septic irrigation. When the infiltration is deep, a speedily fatal issue (in two or three days) may be expected. 11. Phlebitis and Pyaemia.—These complications occur less often than might- naturally be expected, in consideration of the peculiar nature of the parts involved in the operation, the bruising to which they are exposed, and the purulent, putrid, ammoniaeal flow from the bladder in which they are often bathed. The bulb may be opened, the large veins at the base of the prostate incised or torn, and the hemorrhoidal veins injured, yet, apart from the general condition already described in speaking of pelvic cellulitis, phle- bitis and pyaemia are not common. Thompson, in an analysis of twenty cases of death in the adult, occurring in his own practice after lithotomy, only puts down one as due to pyaemia. Yet the complication undoubtedly does occur, starting in the veins, ushered in by a sharp chill (repeated after- wards at intervals), followed by high temperature, frequent feeble pulse, sweating, great physical depression, and, subsequently, a yellowish tint of the skin and conjunctivae. Sometimes the veins of one of the thighs become im- plicated, the circulation of returning blood from the limb is interfered with, and the phenomena of phlegmasia alba dolens are produced. All complications of this class are of most serious prognosis. Their treat- ment is conducted on general surgical principles, and includes the use of hot fomentations, local incisions when pus forms, drainage, and irrigation ; with quinine, iron, and stimulants, internally, to sustain the vital forces. 12. Cystitis.—Cystitis is often relieved by the extraction of the foreign body, and by the rest and free drainage secured to the bladder by the dependent opening in the perineum. Sometimes, on the Other hand, on account of vio- lence done, the mucous membrane of the bladder or the walls of the organ inflame in a serious manner. Shreds of mucous membrane may slough, become detached, and be expelled through the wound, interstitial abscesses may form, and pericystitis, or local- ized or general peritonitis, may be the outcome of the process. The indica- tions are to wash the bladder frequently with mild, hot, antiseptic solutions, to use hot, local fomentations, to give demulcent drinks, and to carry on a general sustaining and stimulating internal treatment, suitable to low grades of septic inflammation of had type.