INJURIES AND DISEASES OF TIIE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. 550 weight from a few ounces to over one hundred pounds. The operation for the removal of these enormous tumors has been very successful: at the Med- ical College Hospital, Calcutta, out of 193 cases, 158 recovered and 35 proved fatal. Richards gives the average duration of life as eleven and a half years, and says that the affection has little tendency to shorten life when unassoci- ated with visceral disease. Microscopical Appearances.—I am indebted to Hr. Heneage Gibbes, whose name is well known in connection with his researches on the Bacillus of Tubercle, and other work, for the microscopic sections which have furnished the illustrations (Plate X X XIV.. Figs. 3 and 4), and which were obtained from a large specimen of elephantiasis scroti in King’s College Museum. The first section shows under the microscope, at the spot selected for demonstration, papillae running up to the surface of the section and infiltrated with small cells, which re- semble leucocytes, and which are deeply stained with logw'ood. The normal connective tissue of the cutis vera appears to have been separated into small fibres by the action of fluid. In spaces between the bundles are a number of oval cells, like small leucocytes, which are probably plasma-cells. Deeper in the cutis there is enormous hypertrophy of the muscular tissue. The bundles run in every direction; many of them are cut across transversely, and are seen to be surrounded by fibrous connective tissue. This portion of the tumor is very vascular, being abundantly supplied with capillary bloodvessels. The lymphatics appear to be normal in structure, but are larger than usual. Through- out the section are to be seen aggregations of small cells, very deeply stained, forming lymphoid tissue. The second preparation is made to show the deeper part of the tumor, which con- sists for the most part of fibrous tissue, separated by the action of fluid into small fibres. Here and there are a few masses of lymphoid tissue and bundles of unstriped muscular fibres. The small arteries are seen associated with these lymphoid masses. Here and there are larger bundles, which are stained more deeply and might be taken for filaria?. In the intestines are a large number of cells, many of which are probably plasma-cells. Hr. Thin,1 in a case of elephantiasis of the penis, found under the microscope- no appearance of a multiplication of cells by division, and infers that the whole of the cells present are derived from the white corpuscles of the blood. Of late years, Manson, Lewis, and Bancroft have done most valuable work in pointing out that these cases, if not caused by, are frequently associated with, the presence of a parasite, the “ filaria sanguinis liominis.” Embryo filaria? were discovered by Dr. Wucherer (Bahia), in the urine from a case of haemato-chyluria, in 1866 ; in the blood, in 1872, by Dr. Levds (India), who gave them the.name of “ filaria sanguinis liominis.” Dr. Manson (China) made the important dis- covery that the filaria’s intermediary host was the mosquito, and described the periodicity of filarial migration.2 Dr. Bancroft (Australia) was fortunate enough to discover an adult filaria with microscopic progeny (Dec. 21, 1876). On March 22, 1877, he removed from a hydrocele, by tapping, four adult worms which moved freely in the hydrocele fluid, but became quiescent in water. Dr. Cobbold3 gave a description and drawings of the worm, and called it “ Filaria Bancrofti” out of compliment to its discoverer. Dr. Lewis4 found an adult worm in a scrotal tumor which he had amputated. Dr. Bancroft has suggested the injection of water into the tumor, or the application of electricity, as a method of treatment. He found filaria? present in five cases of orchitis; in four cases of hydro- cele, one of which contained chylous fluid ; in one case of varicocele; and in one case of commencing elephantiasis scroti. The embryo is inclosed within a tubular sheath, within which it elongates and shortens itself; its diameter is about that of a red blood- corpuscle, being inch, and its length y# inch. Its movements are rapid. The female is from 2 to 3 inches long, and reproductive organs can be distinguished. The ova are oval, x inch in size, and when crushed give exit to inactive embryos- 1 Trans. Path. Soc. Loud., vol. xxxi. 1880. 2 Dr. Stephen Mackenzie, Ibid., 1881. 3 Lancet, July 14, and Oct. 6, 1877. “ Ibid., Sept. 20, 1877.