968 SCROFULO-TUBERCULOUS AND OTHER STRUCTURAL DISEASES OF BONES. growth, have been treated of by M. Ollier in connection with osteitis in general. As complementary information, I would refer to the very remark- able thesis of M. Gabriel Mondan,1 prepared under the direction of M. Ollier. I wish to speak here only of the atrophic phenomena which occur in com- pletely formed bones, at a period when an individual has finished growing, and which are of a nature to diminish the solidity of the skeleton by absorp- tion of the bone-substance without the bone becoming softened. Two sorts of atrophy may be distinguished: One eccentric (called also in- ternal atrophy by Curling); the other concentric. In eccentric atrophy neither the shape, nor the size, nor the external contour of the bone undergoes altera- tion. The marrow of the medullary canal and of the alveoli of the spongy tissue, as well as that of the Haversian canals, increases in quantity at the expense of the compact elements—of the lamellte, of the trabecula, of the bone-tissue properly so called. It follows that the cortical layer becomes more and more thin; that the walls of the alveoli are absorbed, are thinned, until they gradually disappear. The union of a number of alveoli in the spongy tissue gives rise to more or less spacious medullary lacunte. This process continuing, the medullized tissue of the cortical layer may dis- appear in great part from within outwards, and there will remain at the end only a bony envelope as thin as a sheet of paper. This eccentric atrophy, which occurs in old persons in variable degree under the sole influence of age, may be manifested in young subjects in certain pathological conditions. Senile atrophy has also received the name of senile osteomalacia; an improper term, since the bone is not softened. The quantity of bone-tissue diminishes, but that which is left preserves all its constituent elements, as Nelaton has proved. The expression senile osteoporosis is more exact and more in accord with histological revelations, which, according to Cornil and Ranvier, are the following: Senile osteoporosis is “ a rarefaction of the bone-tissue by enlarge- ment of the medullary spaces. In this case the friability of the bone is con- nected simply with its rarefaction. There is not here, as in true osteomalacia, softening of the bone by decalcification. This rarefaction of the bone is accompanied by important modifications of the medulla. These modifica- tions present a certain analogy with those seen in true osteomalacia. They consist in the disappearance to a greater or less degree of the fat-cells, and in the formation of cells like those of the foetal marrow. Sometimes there is produced in the medullary spaces young connective tissue of new formation. The bones most frequently affected in this disease are the ribs and the verte- bral column. The vertebral column becomes incurvated, fractures take place in the ribs on the slightest effort, and—which is quite a curious thing—they consolidate perfectly by the formation of cartilaginous callus which after- wards ossifies.”2 In patients who have not reached old age, rarefaction of the bone-tissue (fatty osteoporosis) is observed after chronic affections of the joints, and after prolonged immobilization of the limbs. In a Syme’s amputation for fungous osteoarthritis of the calcaneo-cuboid joint spreading to other parts, which had condemned the patient to bed for two years, I found the uninflamed part of the calcaneum and of the other tarsal bones so atrophied that they crumbled between my fingers; the tibia was in the same condition—when cut, its enlarged alveoli poured out a material like oil. Fatty osteoporosis is a rarefaction of the bone-tissue “ characterized by an abundant production of adipose cells in the medullary spaces and in the 1 Recherches exp6rimentales et cliniques snr les atrophies des membres dans les affections chi- rurgicales, systeme musculaire et systeme osseux. Lyon, 1882. 2 Op. cit., p. 388.