587 VARICOCELE. two plates of a small silver instrument, and tied tight; the veins were divided by screwing the two plates apart by turning a small handle ; this proceeding was very successful, but the screw had to be turned daily, and caused pain. Mr. Messenger Bradley employs that form of acupressure known in the Aberdeen School as the method of retroclusion. A long and strong harelip pin is passed between the veins and the scrotal walls, its point being brought close beneath, but not through the scrotum; it is then made to retrace its course, but passing now behind the veins, until it emerges near the puncture through which it entered.1 It is better to follow Mr. Osborne’s example, and pass the pin first between the vas deferens and veins. Mr. Wood’s operation is done by passing a thin iron wire subcutaneously around the veins. The ends of the wire, which emerge at the same aperture, are passed through a large eye in the end of a steel rod about the size of a stout knitting-needle, which lies at right angles to its other end, an elongated, horseshoe-shaped spring of steel. The free end of the spring, which is provided with a projection, is then approximated to the rod, and the ends of the wire are securely twisted round the projection ; the steel spring acts like a bow, and makes constant and equable traction on the veins until they are cut through ; the wire may be left in until it has cut its way out, or may be removed when there is sufficient consolidation to obliterate the vessels. To obviate the pain and ulceration caused by the direct pressure of the steel rod, I have devised the little instrument which is here figured:— Pig. 1370. Instrument for treatment of varicocele. Having shaved the part, the surgeon passes a ntevus needle with a large eye at its end, behind the veins, which are drawn forwards, away from the vas deferens ; he then passes one end of a piece of carbolized silk through the eye of the needle, which is withdrawn, leaving a single thread behind the veins, and is next passed, without unthreading, sub- cutaneously in front of the veins ; he now unthreads the needle, and passes the end of the thread which has just been removed around the free thread ; the latter is then put through the eye of the needle, which is again withdrawn, and the thread disengaged from its eye ; firm traction is made on the ends of the ligature, whicli are passed through the eyes of the small instrument, one thread through each eye, and are then fastened to the projections placed for that purpose. The arms come together, forming a St. Andrew’s Cross by meeting at a central joint of the kind technically known as a circular joint. The traction is made by means of an India-rubber band twisted around the distal ends of the tractor; the force, which is regulated by the number of turns made with the elastic band, may be considerable, and is unremitting in its action. The advantage of this instrument is that it makes traction on the threads, and pulls away from the veins and from the skin and tissues beneath ; the openings through which the ligatures pass are small, and when these are removed they soon heal. There is no rule, in cases of varicocele, as to the time that the ligature should be left around the veins, as this depends upon the severity of the constriction, and upon the amount of veins and tissue in- cluded in the loop; in some cases the ligature may be removed on the fifth or sixth day. 1 Practitioner, London, vol. xx.