299 URINARY CALCULUS IN THE FEMALE. relief of chronic cystitis. The operation is performed with the patient lying in the Sims position on the left side, with the shoulders low, the hips ele- vated, the thighs and legs flexed. The vagina is held open by a speculum in the hands of an assistant. A sound with a short curve is introduced into the urethra and turned backwards, so that its tip sharply depresses the floor of the bladder near its neck. A tenaculum is used to steady the parts, and this tip is cut down upon boldly, so that the wound may penetrate the vaginal and the vesical wall at the same site. Scissors are introduced into this button-hole, and an incision is made directly upwards, an inch if necessary, or a little more. Through such an incision a large stone may be removed. If it prove too large, it may be crushed with some of the powerful instruments employed for the male, and the fragments removed separately. The patient is next placed upon her back with a bed-pan beneath her. The small nozzle of a Davidson’s syringe is passed into the urethra, the vagina held open with two fingers, and copious irrigation practised until all fragments, blood-clot, etc., have been removed. If the bladder is- found healthy, the wound is brought together at once with silver sutures, and the case is treated exactly like one of operation for vesico-vaginal fistula. If the bladder is not healthy, it is irrigated twice daily, and the wound is kept open by the daily introduction of a sound separating its edges, or, as Emmet now advises and practises, by attaching the vesical to the vaginal mucous membrane along the entire length of the wound on both sides. A silver suture, properly applied and twisted, will arrest any hemorrhage. In order to keep the wound from closing too rapidly, Fallen advises that the incision should be made with the Paquelin thermo-cautery, but Emmet does not sanction this modification. Emmet narrates a case in which, by opening the floor of the bladder, he was on one occasion enabled to detect a stone fixed in the mouth of one of the ureters, and to remove it easily by means of a narrow pair of curette forceps-