VAGINISMUS. 749 speculum, or even a linger; the other may act in the same manner, or, on the other hand, it may not hinder the entrance, but may prevent the withdrawal of the penis. The condition last mentioned has been described by Hildebrandt, but it is an error to regard him as having first observed it. Several examples of this accident are given by Schurigius,1 quoted from previous authors, one of these authors describing it as “a spasmodic affection of the female genitals.” Diemerbroeck2 mentions an instance where the separation was thus effected: quem vex urn advocatus medicus affusione aquae frigidce protinus dissolverat. Budin3 has met with instances in which this contraction of the levator ani was under the control of the will, so that those having this power could vol- untarily prevent either the introduction or the withdrawal of the virile member. Spasmodic contraction at the entrance of the vagina is that form 11411011 is much the more frequent. An examination, which generally requires an anaesthetic, will in most cases discover some inflammation or excoriation of the external surface of the hymen, of the carunculae myrtiformes, if the hymen has been ruptured, or of adjacent parts ; the disease may result from a vulvar or an anal fissure, from a sensitive tumor of the urinary meatus, or from vagi- nitis. Even in some cases where no local lesion is discovered, we have the right, as suggested by L. de Sine'ty, to suppose that such a lesion has disap- peared, and that the contraction which it caused has remained. Veit has directed attention to metritis, uterine displacements, and oophoritis, as causes of the affection. Hildebrandt connects the place of the lesion with that of the contraction; thus affections of the vulva lead to contraction of the vaginal sphincter, and those of the uterus and ovaries to contraction of the levator ani. This disorder, though it may occur in a woman who has borne one or more children, is most frequently met with in newly-married women, and in such cases usually results from bungling, or brutal, fruitless attempts at coition. In some cases the difficulty arises from the form of the vulvar orifice, or from the perineum being prolonged so far anteriorly that the orifice, when the subject is recumbent, is in a horizontal plane, and that the penis thus impinges upon the fourehette or navicular fossa, or upon the urethral opening ; in some cases the urethra has been thus dilated, and coitus has occurred through that canal—one patient complaining that a discharge of urine always followed coition. In any case the parts are bruised, and thence the vaginismus. While in the great majority of cases a local lesion, past or present, ex- plains the disorder, there are some few in which it cannot be attributed to such a cause, and in these it is called neuralgic; instances of this kind are found most frequently in hysterical persons. L. de Sinety observes that, when the disturbance of local sensibility depends upon a general neurosis, it is very rare that the hypersesthesia is manifested only at the vulvar region, and that painful points are not found at other parts of the body, particularly at the seventh and eighth dorsal vertebrae. Beigel mentions a case of facial neu- ralgia, alternating with a vulvo-vaginal neuralgia, in a woman who had never presented hysteric symptoms. Patients suffering with vaginismus are usually sterile; nevertheless, con- ception may occur without intromission having been accomplished; Packard and Von Preusschen each gives an instance of this kind. Among the conse- quences of vaginismus, in addition to the spasmodic and painful contraction of the muscles of the pelvic floor, and the consequent rectal and vesical tenes- 1 Gynsecologia Historico-Medica. 1730. 8 Anatom. Corp. Human., lib. i. 1687. 8 Le Progres Medical, 1881.