787 PUERPERAL LAPARO-CYSTOTOMY, ETC. right Fallopian tube was found to communicate with the cyst-cavity, the walls of the tube merging into those of the sac. The woman made a good recovery. Case II Oct. 14, 1880. Prof. Litzmann, of Kiel, Germany,1 had a similar ex- perience. The patient, a primipara of 35, carried the foetus nine months over time, until the amniotic fluid had nearly all been absorbed. The sac was here and there adherent to the omentum and abdominal parietes; these attachments being separated, and some of them tied, the sac was found to spring by a broad pedicle from the right broad ligament; this was ligated and the cyst cut away, after which the stump was dropped in. The woman made a good recovery, and was discharged in eighty days ; the pregnancy, after examination of the exsected parts, was regarded as tubal. These cases were properly secondary laparo-cystectomies, and go to prove that, by careful isolation, it is possible to treat a foetal cyst like a solid ovarian tumor, in per- haps more instances than is generally credited. Case III—June 5, 1884. Prof. T. G. Thomas, in an operation of this kind, finding the placenta of enormous size, determined to reduce its bulk.2 It was attached to the transverse and descending colon. After removing a large male foetus he tied the pla- centa, and then cut away as much as was considered safe, after which he puckered together what was left, like a bag, and sewed it into the abdominal wound. The woman had an attack of acute septicaemia, but recovered in six weeks. Case IV—Feb. 28, 1882. Mr. J. Knowsley Thornton3 removed a foetal cyst entire, which had been thought to be a fibroid ; it contained a small dead foetus, and a large hypertrophied placenta. The uterine attachment was ligated and the pedicle dropped in ; the cyst was believed to be a tubal one. The woman recovered. These short abstracts of cases show, in few words, the great uncertainty of all operations upon extra-uterine cysts. As the placenta may be implanted anywhere, the foetus encysted or not, and the whole mass impossible or on the other hand quite possible to isolate, we cannot tell until after exploration what may be the probabilities in any given case, and each one must be a law unto itself. That the secondary operation can be managed with comparative safety, is shown by the fact that Dr. Thomas saved all of his four cases, and that Mr. Lawson Tait lost but one out of seven. Other operators have likewise been quite successful, as for example Prof. August Martin, of Berlin, already mentioned. 1 Arckiv fiir Gynakol., Bd. xviii. 1882. 2 Am. Journ. of Obstetrics, Oct. 1884, p. 1063. 3 Trans. Obstet. Soc. London, March, 1882.