125 CANCER OP THE RECTUM. dangers attending the operation had passed away; two I saw after six months, and their cases bade fair to be very successful. I must contend that the operation in properly selected cases is one likely to afford excellent results, and I am sure that with increased experience the direct mortality may be decreased. Properly, my deaths from the operation per se may be reduced to 4, as the carbolic-acid poisoning was absolutely an accident. As to the prolongation of life and the amount of comfort afforded, I think it quite sufficient to justify my recommending the operation in all cases in which the growth can be fully removed. In two of my cases, which did well, I opened the peritoneum and removed a hard mass of glands, and in another case one gland; and I am fully confident that if due precautions are taken, the opening the cavity of the abdomen does not greatly add to the danger. Since writing the above paragraphs I have performed three more excisions of the rectum, and all of the patients are, so far, doing well. I shall only quite briefly touch upon the question of colotomy, as the sub- ject has been fully considered elsewhere. Generally, I will say that colotomy is justifiable when an obstruction existing in the rectum, sigmoid flexure, or in the descending or transverse colon, places the patient’s life in peril. Also, when an opening has taken place between the rectum and the bladder, or even the vagina high up, the distress in these cases being often exceedingly great. When cancer of the rectum is rapidly advancing, and all treatment fails to relieve pain, then also colotomy may be performed even if no ob- struction exists. I must, however, protest against colotomy being performed simply because a cancer exists in the rectum. Often neither pain nor obstruction will ensue for months, or they may never occur, and the patient may die of some other malady. Of course, if a surgeon at once persuades all his patients who have malignant growths of the rectum to submit to colotomy, under the promise that life will be much prolonged and suffering averted, he will have many cases to report and very good statistics, but I maintain that such statistics are really valueless. In one case, another surgeon performed colotomy three days after the patient had consulted me; there was a growth, but no pain and no obstruction, and the patient was in fair health; he died four months after the operation. In all probability, had he not been operated upon, he might have lived for years. I was once called to Eastbourne, to see a gentleman whom I found suffering from constant diarrhoea ; he was wasted to a shadow, and his skin was dry and furfuraceous. I found superficial idceration in the rectum as far as I could reach, and the mucous membrane was studded with small elevated bodies. I said that the patient was suffering from tuber- culosis of the bowel, and that he would die in a few days. I was then asked if I did not think that colotomy was necessary, and was told that a surgeon was coming the next day to colotomize the patient. I fortunately succeeded in stopping the operation: the patient died in three days, and the post-mortem examination showed tuberculous deposits through the whole intestine. I saw a gentleman not long since who came to consult me about the trou- ble which he experienced from an opening that had been made in his right lumbar region for the relief of obstruction in the bowel. I found a con- siderable portion of the descending colon coming out of the wound. lie said that the operation had been done two years before, and that he had been said to have cancer. He said that he had never had any severe obstruction in the bowel, but that the surgeon thought that while his health was fair it was better to do the operation, so as to avoid difficulty that was sure to arise in the future. On carefully examining the patient’s rectum, I found a very