FUNCTIONAL DISORDERS OF THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. 651 applications, each lasting for two minutes, are made weekly, and tend to lessen the reflex excitability of the cord. Benedict also employs the constant current, placing the copper pole over the lumbar region of the spine, and pass- ing the zinc pole to and fro over the spermatic cords, penis, and perineum. The currents used are so weak that they are only just perceptible, and they are applied daily for two or three minutes, the treatment lasting for two or three months. When galvanic catheterization is deemed necessary, the copper pole is made into a sound and introduced as far as the prostatic urethra, the zinc pole being passed backwards and forwards over the spermatic cords : three applications in a fortnight are sufficient. When the skin is cold and anaesthetic, the galvanic brush is of use. Castration has been advocated, especially in cases associated with severe epileptic attacks, and men have even been known to perform the operation on themselves. The opinion of the profession is against the performance of this operation for spermatorrhoea, for the treatment of which many better remedies are available. The patients who demand the operation, which is by no means a certain cure, or who perform it on themselves, are often mono- maniacs, and should by no means be gratified in their whim by the surgeon. Mr. Curling mentions the case of a gentleman who, after the removal of both his testicles by a surgeon, committed suicide. Instead of castration, it has been proposed to attain the same end by ligation of the spermatic arteries— a milder proceeding, but one not to be recommended. The following interesting cases have been kindly communicated to me by a gentleman who has been a superintendent of a large public asylum for many years, and who may justly be considered an authority on the subject under our immediate consideration :— A case of removal of both testicles occurred when I was in charge of a county asylum about twenty years ago, and the facts were these : A masturbating young man who had become almost demented, and who was gradually failing both in mind and bodily health, received a severe injury from a kick by another patient; the whole force of the blow came upon the testicles, producing swelling and luematocele. Inflamma- tory mischief afterwards set in, and the testicles became affected with what I suppose must have been scrofulous disease, judging from the general health of the patient. Thinking that I might get rid of two evils at the same time, viz., masturbation and the diseased testicles, I removed them. The patient was put upon extra diet and cod-liver oil, and soon recovered. Before the operation he had been much emaciated, and, as I have said before, almost demented, unable to do anything, and a most miserable object. After he recovered from the injury, he got fat and became much more intelli- gent, so much so that he was able to follow his trade as a tailor, and he continued to improve mentally for about six months, when he succumbed, after a short illness, to an attack of pneumonia. Judging from the result of this case, I have always thought that it is a great pity that castration could not be more frequently adopted in cases of mental disease, the result of masturbation. Such cases fill our asylums with hopeless imbeciles, and I look upon all other methods of treatment, such as blistering the penis, etc., as perfectly useless. I know of a case in this town in which castration was performed upon the son of a tradesman with perfect success, as far as curing his mental state was concerned. The father of the patient consulted me about his son, who was mentally affected, and who was gradually getting worse. I told him what I believed would cure him, but, as I had only recently come to the town, and did not like to take the responsibility of the case, I refused to perform the operation, although the father wished it to be done. At his request, two old-established practitioners in the town did it, and the result was the perfect recovery of the young man, who for some years past has carried on business with his father The above cases deserve our careful consideration, as the mental and bodily condition of both patients was materially improved at the cost of organs