INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTION. 54 with inflammation of the affected part—but in strangulation by a band it may be almost entirely wanting, and death may ensue without marked tenderness, having been at any time observed. Tenderness limited to a particular spot— unlike pain similarly localized—is an important symptom, as indicating the seat of obstruction. Diffuse abdominal tenderness, if slight, may be due simply to the violent peristaltic motion of the gut above the strangulated part, but if intense, it is indicative of peritonitis. Vital Depression.—In connection with the intense pain of acute obstruction, there is commonly great prostration, commensurate with the tightness with which the bowel is strangulated. It is most marked in strangulation by a band and in internal hernia, is somewhat less in volvulus and in the more acute forms of invagination, and may be entirely absent in obstruction by gall-stones, etc., as it is, in the early stages, in chronic invagination, and in. simple enteritis without mechanical occlusion. There is (says Mr. Treves, speaking of strangulation by bands) great muscular weak- ness, the face is drawn with pain, and has an aspect of horrible anxiety, the features become pinched, the eyes sunken and surrounded by bluish rings, and the voice weak and muffled. A cold sweat breaks out upon the surface, and in extreme cases the limbs become cyanosed and the complexion livid. The patient at last sinks, retaining his intelligence, as a rule, to the last. The pulse and breathing are both rapid in acute obstruction; the former, feeble and often thread-like, and the latter superficial and chiefly effected by the subsidiary muscles of respiration. The temperature is below the normal standard (except in enteritis), and may not even rise upon the development of general peritoneal inflammation. There is great thirst, especially when there is profuse vomiting, and, when this becomes stercoraceous, the patient has a very offensive breath. Singultus is sometimes a distressing symptom. Vomiting. This is an early and very prominent symptom in cases of strangulation by a band or diverticulum, but much less so in those of intus- susception and volvulus, until secondary enteritis is developed, when the nausea and vomiting may be very distressing. The matters first ejected—just as in cases of strangulated hernia—are the contents of the stomach, and then those of the upper bowel; finally, the vomiting may become decidedly sterco- raceous in character. Occlusion of the small intestine is attended by earlier and more persistent vomiting than that of the laigei bowel, but, on the othei hand the vomiting in the former case is less apt to be stercoraceous, though in some instances the contents of the lower ileum have an undoubtedly fecal character. The occurrence of stercoraceous vomiting was formerly attributed to a reversed peristaltic movement (anti-peristalsis) of the intestine, but though such reversed movements do undoubtedly sometimes occui, the oidinaiy, direct peristalsis is, when the bowel is occluded, quite sufficient for the pur- pose. This subject was particularly investigated by the late Dr. W. Brinton, who conclusively showed that when obstruction was piesent, and the gut contained fluid, the effect of the peristaltic wave was to cause a reversed upward current in the centre of the intestine, just as a piston with a median perforation, driven forwards in the cylinder oi a pump, forces water back- wards through its opening. '. T Constipation is, of course, a prominent symptom m all forms of intestinal obstruction, but it is by no means equally marked in all varieties. Absolute and persistent in cases of strangulation by a band, it is only paitial in those of enteritis, and in some instances of chronic invagination has been at times entirely absent; here, indeed, as in some cases of intestinal stricture, the patient’s chief complaint may be of diarrhoea. Even when complete strangulation has occurred—as in external hernia the use of enemata may