399 RETENTION AND INCONTINENCE OF URINE, ETC. the papilloma or villous growth—is probably fatal only by reason of the bleed- ing which it occasions, and not through any other character of malignancy. When hemorrhage from the bladder proceeds from causes beyond the reach of operative surgery, reliance must chiefly be placed on the styptics already men- tioned. Cold externally, in the form of ice-bags, is often of service. I have sometimes found, in hemorrhage proceeding from malignant and tubercular ulceration, great benefit from irrigating the bladder with hot water—water at a temperature of 105° Fahr., gradually raised to 120°. The value of hot water in blanching tissues, and thus restraining the hemorrhage, is not suffi- ciently recognized in this class of affections. When employed with a suita- ble apparatus, and a gentle hand, it is capable of affording much relief, not only by arresting this symptom, but by controlling the cystitis which so fre- quently accompanies it. Reference has already been made to the best method of dealing- with blood clotted in the bladder, when it occasions symptoms demanding its removal. Hemorrhage from the urethra, when constituting hsematuria, hardly requires any special reference, as it is as a rule easily detected, and readily remedied by some modification in the treatment appropriate to the condition which gives rise to it. The injection of a little iced water up the urethra, and the suspension of other local treatment, are in the great majority of instances quite sufficient to cause the hemorrhage to cease. When it occurs in gonorrhoea, it is, as a rule, traceable to the extreme anxiety evinced by the patient to get rid of this affection by the too frequent use of an injection. Retention and Incontinence of Urine; Paralysis and Atony; Spasm and Aeuralgia of the Bladder. Retention and incontinence are conditions which may coexist and he dependent upon one cause. A patient, for reasons presently to be mentioned, may be physically incapable of expelling the urine which has collected in his bladder; eventually an overflow takes place, and thus incontinence becomes substituted for the previous inability to micturate. Hence incontinence, or the dribbling away of urine in the adult, almost invariably means that the bladder is so full that it is actually overflowing. In the child, incontinence may have a very different signification. Retention of urine is, as a rule, readily recognized. It is often the term- ination of gradually increasing difficulty in micturition, and is at once obvi- ous both to the patient and the practitioner. In other instances it is less apparent, especially in the case of individuals who, by reason of an enlarging prostate, have long been unable completely to empty the bladder. Here it may not be discovered until incontinence or overflow actually occurs. In other cases the retention is sudden and abrupt, and appears to have been pre- ceded by no symptoms of significance. Retention of urine may be overlooked in certain conditions in which the patient is incapable of giving expression to his sensations; hence in persons who have been suddenly rendered insensible by injuries or by disease, as in apoplexy and sometimes in the insane, reten- tion may remain unobserved, and eonsiderable damage may be occasioned thereby. In addition to the sensations of the patient, coupled with the fact that urine has not been passed for a certain period of time, retention is indicated by a more or less distended condition of the bladder. This presents itself as a globular, or rather egg-shaped, tumor immediately above the pubis, some- times extending up to the level of the umbilicus. It may be here remarked