437 TRAUMATIC LESIONS OF TIIE URETHRA. •only neighboring lesion worthy of being mentioned is rupture of one or other of the cavernous bodies. Symptomatology.—The principal symptoms of rupture of the urethra are three in number: pain, disorders of micturition, and hemorrhage from the urethra. Pain is rarely absent, but is of very variable intensity in different cases. Sometimes so slight as to permit the patient to walk about and continue his work, in other cases it is so severe as to cause syncope. It lias its greatest intensity at the point of injury, and thence it radiates to the neighboring parts. Further, it is soon replaced by a painful and agonizing sensation, which results from the passage of urine and the efforts of the patient to expel it, and which, at first intermittent, becomes continuous, and ends by disap- pearing. Troubles of micturition are, so to speak, constant, but are variable, like other symptoms. Sometimes retention of urine is complete and manifests itself at the outset; sometimes the patient still manages to void a small quantity of urine, and the retention does not become complete until the end of several hours, or even after one or two days. Finally, after a temporary retention of urine, micturition may be re-established. In certain light cases the emission of urine continues, but is painful. If the lesion be a little more serious, the stream is small, and requires considerable effort on the part of the'patient. At times there is incomplete or intermittent retention. It may be asked, What causes these variations ? Retention may be explained, in interstitial rupture, by the protrusion of the hemorrhagic protuberance, which obliterates the lumen of the canal ; in complete rupture, by the sepa- ration of the ends aud the crumpling of the mucous membrane. Besides, the clots accumulated at the point of rupture may oppose a temporary obstacle to micturition, and afterwards the urine may resume its flow in con- sequence of the displacement of the clots. Finally, there is joined to these causes often, if not aljvays, spasm of the membranous portion of the urethra, a temporary phenomenon which appears to be the principal, and, in cases which are not very grave, the only cause of retention in the first hours which follow the injury. Afterwards, at the end of a day or two, retention may be caused by inflammatory swelling, which acts by diminishing the calibre of the urethra and provoking flattening of its walls. The absence of these diverse causes explains the relative facility of micturition which is observed in certain cases, in which only a small portion of the mucous membrane has been involved. Hemorrhage from the urethra is seen only in cases in which there is a solution of continuity of the mucous membrane, the blood coming then from the more or less lacerated spongy body. Ordinarily it appears immediately after the accident, sometimes in the shape of a few drops of blood, sometimes in the shape of a continuous oozing; sometimes, finally, it constitutes a true hemorrhage which may last quite a long time, and may even, in exceptional cases, cause death. Sometimes hemorrhage from the urethra does not occur until the end of several days. This is when an interstitial rupture has taken place, the mucous membrane, intact at first, sloughing consecutively or being torn by the introduction of a catheter. By direct examination of the parts there is often found an ecchymosis of varying intensity, proportionate to the depth and extent of the rupture, and especially proportionate to the seat of the contusion or the nature of the traumatism. Contusion of the perineum, for example, often causes, and sometimes very quickly, a very ex- tensive ecchymosis. On the other hand, this is absent or appears only at a late period in ruptures which follow a fracture of the pelvis. This is not all. Rupture of the urethra in the perineal region, especially