870 INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS OF THE BONES. the pain in the tibia had disappeared after a few days of treatment, and the patient could walk as before. Suddenly, three months afterwards, in consequence of being chilled, the patient was attacked with an endocarditis which caused such grave valvu- lar lesions that she died the following winter. In this case, which appeared to me to be typical of rheumatic osteo- myelitis, or rather medullitis, it is impossible to mistake the nature of the affection. In young .subjects it might be possible to confound rheumatic osteitis with the osteitis of the period of growth. But, as I have already remarked, osteitis of the period of growth does not form a peculiar variety from the etiological point of view. A number of causes may bring it about, or at least provoke it, and in this respect chilling ought to be placed in the first rank. It is in these conditions that I have several times observed albu- minous periostitis. When, as is usually the case, rheumatism attacks the periosteum and fixes itself upon this membrane, it provokes, especially if the patient is young, a more or less pronounced swelling. It also provokes this hyperostosis second- arily when the medullary tissue is first attacked. I have seen a young man of 16 years, whose femur had reached a size apparently double that which was normal, in consequence of an osteo-myelitis which had lasted more than a year, and which only yielded to repeated sweatings. In cases of acute or subacute rheumatic arthritis, a periosteal swelling may be found which extends more or less toward the middle of the bone, and which may give rise to a persistent increase in size or to peri-articular osteophytes. As all forms of acute osteitis are painful and present characteristic noc- turnal pains, that is to say, pains which recur at an almost fixed hour, it may be asked if it be worth while to make a separate category for neuralgic osteitis. All these divisions are doubtless a little artificial. But I shall give with Gosselin the name neuralgic osteitis to osteitis in which rebellious pains constitute the predominating characteristic of the affection, and are not accompanied by fever and infectious phenomena. Gosselin has seen it twice in the femur and eight times in the tibia, but has not observed it in other bones. I have seen it, independent of the tibia and femur, which are its most frequent seats, in the humerus, the fibula, the radius, the first phalanx of the thumb, etc.1 Gosselin, having successfully trephined a number of bones which were the seat of persistent pains, and having found no pus, never- theless cured his patients. He therefore advises trephining in these cases, which lie calls false abscesses of bone. This relief of patients by trephining which has not disclosed any purulent collection, has been observed by a num- ber of surgeons (Xelaton, Barrier), and I myself, in 1862, in the first case of the kind which I had ever seen, caused the pain to disappear, although I found in the centre of the bone only a little semi-transparent, grayish marrow, like a hardened jelly. The pains disappeared for several years, but the pro- cess of osteitis was not extinguished ; the bone continued to become hyperos- tosed, and twelve years afterwards the patient was attacked with suppurative panosteitis, which caused his death from pyaemia. I have several times observed the continuation of this process of hyper- trophy in bones which I had trephined for rebellious pains, and in which 1 had not found pus. A young man whose humerus I trephined twice in 1869, had a considerable hypertrophy of the lower half of that bone in spite of the dis- appearance of the pains after the operation. What is the cause of the pains in neuralgic osteitis ? The relief afforded by trephining indicates that the cause is compression of the hypertemic me- 1 Simon Perret, De la trepanation dans les abces des os et dans l’osteite ndvralgique. These de Paris, 1876.