(789) OVARIAN AND UTERINE TUMORS. BY CHARLES CARROLL LEE, M.D., SURGEON TO THE woman’s HOSPITAL, CONSULTING SURGEON TO THE CHARITY HOSPITAL, NEW YORE. / Ovarian Tumors. For clinical and all practical purposes ovarian tumors may be conveniently divided into two groups: cystic and solid tumors. The former of these—hy far the more important—comprises ovarian cysts, dermoid cysts, cysto-fibro- mata, cysto-sarcomata, and cysto-carcinomata. The latter includes true ■fibromata, sarcomata, papillomata, and carcinomata of the ovary. In the following pages these will be considered in turn, and their pathological and clinical characters will be briefly laid before the reader. I. Ovarian Cysts and Cystomata.1 Origin.—In no branch of surgery has the last decade been more fruitful than in practical suggestions for the improvement of ovariotomy; in few or none has our knowledge of the origin of disease made less progress than in regard to the causation and mode of production of ovarian cysts. Schroeder, writing in 1873, says: “Very little is as yet definitely known concerning the ■origin of ovarian cysts; we will only say .... that, while it is possible to comprehend the etiology of dropsy of the Graafian follicle, we yet know nothing definitely with regard to the origin of a true cystoma.” Thomas, in 1880, says that “ pathologists are still at variance with reference to the ori- gin of ovarian cysts,” and assumes that they may he generated either from the Graafian follicle, as taught by Rokitansky, Wilson Fox, and Rindfleisch, or from the ovarian stroma alone, as held by Waldeyer, Wedl, and Liicke. Emmet, in 1884, while committing himself to no explicit theory of their formation, quotes with approval Waldeyer’s description of follicular and com- pound cysts. Finally, Roeggerath,2 in 1880, was led by his histological examinations to conclude that proliferating ovarian cysts were “ to a large extent the result of a degeneration of ovarian bloodvessels.” Causes.—We know as little of the causation as of the origin of ovarian cysts; and it can only be affirmed with certainty that middle age, that is, the period of menstrual life of a woman, is a predisposing cause, while all kinds of prolonged ovarian irritation act as exciting causes of this disease. 1 Thomas (Diseases of Women, p. 673, note. 1880) defines a cyst as “ a collection of fluid en- veloped within a pre-existing sac a cystoma as “ one which creates its own sac.” 2 American Journal of Obstetrics, January, 1880.