153 CAUSES OF STONE FORMATION. observed shortly after birth. J. W. Troizki1 extracted from the urethra of a male infant, one month old, a uric-acid stone weighing twenty-five centi- grammes, eight mm. long, and five mm. broad. This had formed during intra-uterine life, and bad produced acute symptoms when the child was eight days old. Civiale never saw a case of congenital stone, but he quotes from Brendel that of a child dying two days after birth, in whose bladder a stone of some size was found, and he alludes to two male babies in whom urethral stone was found within twenty-four hours after birth. A. Jacobi2 says that he has detected “six cases of congenital renal calculi in forty autopsies,” and believes so-called intestinal colic in children to be often renal colic. Langenbeck has settled the whole question of intra-uterine stone by discovering a calculus in the bladder of a male foetus of six months. This he reported orally to Mr. Coulson. Nearly all surgeons who have dealt with stone, report a greater number of operations upon children than upon adults, and it has been gene- rally admitted that calculus is more common in early than in advanced life. The conditions appropriate for prompt stone formation, as has been shown in connection with the question of the influence of colloids, are amply furnished by the infant, and but for the fact which Coulson has emphasized, that the relative number of young people in the world is so large when compared with the number of adults, it would be fair to conclude that stone was very com- mon in children. This, however, is not strictly true. Coulson3 has shown by calculations based upon the statistics of Civiale, that the liability to stone, at the different ages of life, when corrected by taking into consideration the number of people alive at different ages, is very different from the apparent liability computed by simply noting the number of cases occurring at different ages. Thus, while out of a collection of 5376 cases, 2989 were found, in persons under 20 years of age, the number of persons living and under 20 years, in a given 100, is 46 ; so that while the actual liability appears to be 55 per cent., the real liability is below 25 per cent. In the same way, from 20 to 40, the liability is less than half what it is below 20; from 40 to 60, it nearly reaches the liability of youth; while after 60 it is relatively nearly twice as great as it is below 20. Thus it will be seen that, according to reported statistics, stone is relatively more common after 60 than before 20, and that the period of early manhood is most exempt. This is undoubtedly due to the facts that all infants who have stone are operated upon or die before 20, and that, activity of life and freedom from debilitating agencies prevailing as a rule between 20 and 50, stone does not tend to form readily at this period. The few who survive 60 are usually more or less feeble; prostatic disease exists in about one-third ot the men, and the conditions favoring secondary phosphatic stone are active. If primary (acid) stones were alone computed, the percentage of young persons affected would easily surpass all others. Gross and Cadge have both called attention to the fact that in some dis- tricts stone seems to be more common in children; in other sections in adults; and Thompson is very positive in stating that while among the poor of London the children furnish many cases of acid stone, the old men of the same class of life do not have phosphatic stone. Water as Influencing Stone Formation.—-The water question has been already discussed in connection with the geographical distribution of stone. 1 Quoted in Centralblatt f. Chirurgie, No. 47, 1881, S. 751. 2 New York Med. Journal, July 21, 1883, p. 74. 8 Diseases of the Bladder and Prostate, 6th ed., p. 369. 1881.