PREPARATION OF PATIENT FOR RADICAL TREATMENT OF STONE. 217 may exist with pus, blood, and even stringy mucus and ammonia in the urine, hut positive putridity is only found where such urine is retained for some time in a paralyzed or atonied bladder. Moderate putridity may be noticed occasionally in connection with long standing chronic pyelitis, with distended pelvis of the kidney, but such cases are not suitable for any radical operation for stone in the bladder. When, therefore, the urine is putrid, preparatory treatment is imperative. The patient should be put to bed, the urine should be rendered dilute and abundant, and the bladder should be washed out with some warm antiseptic solution, the strength being meantime maintained by quinine, tonics, and a suitable diet in which, if possible, milk should form a part. As diluents, the infusions, extracts, and decoctions of various vegetables (buchu, triticum repens, pareira brava, corn-silk, flaxseed) are of very little value, and gum and elm-bark water of none whatever. Buttermilk among the foods, and benzoic acid, the benzoates, salicylates, and salicine among the medicines, will effect what little is possible by ordinary therapeutic means. But the stomach objects to the benzoates and often to the salicylates, and the best medical treatment by the mouth will usually be found to consist in a judicious exhibition of some diluent water. Simple rain-water—better if filtered—is generally effective, and this or any other water, when used as a diluent, should be consumed abundantly. Bethesda water (Dunbar’s Spring), Poland water, Glen Summit, Clysmic, Mountain Valley (Arkansas), Wil- clungen—these are tjqies of the waters which are most suitable, being bland diuretics, easily assimilated, and not owing their value to any especial min- eral ingredient. They are little better than rain-water, and if stale are not as good, but they are easier to obtain in large cities, and are more readily assi- milated by some stomachs. Direct treatment by injection is more efficacious than any other means. As these patients with putrid urine usually suffer from vesical atony or paralysis, the catheter may be already in use. If not, the practice of draw- ing off the urine must be instituted with all the customary precautions, such as not emptying the bladder entirely at the first sitting, etc. Water at a tem- perature of abouplOO0 F.,and containing a tablespoonful or more of borax to the pint, may be injected through a soft catheter, preferably with a fountain syringe. The French use habitually a four-per-cent, solution of boracic acid. A double-current catheter should not be used. A bladder cannot be well washed unless it is moderately distended, so that its folds may be obliterated, and such distention is not effected by the double-current catheter. Mild solutions of permanganate of potassium may be used, or a one-per-cent, solu- tion of carbolic acid. Two-per-cent, solutions, as well as all corrosive-subli- mate solutions, have proved irritating in my hands. Dilute lead-water; mild solutions of sulphate of zinc, from three to ten grains to the pint; of nitrate of silver, half a grain to the ounce, slowly increased in strength; or other similar solutions, may be used. An excellent injection is the dilute nitric acid, from one to sixty minims in the pint of water. Borax and nitric acid have given better results in my hands than the other injections mentioned. If the urine is not putrid, and in any case where there is no atony and no residual urine, it is doubtful whether vesical injections do any good. Yet often under these circumstances the bladder is highly inflamed, and mani- festly not ready to be interfered with. The urine is full of blood, pus, or stringy mucus, and perhaps fever runs high. Such conditions are to be treated as in other cases of cystitis. Alkaline draughts (citrate of potassium), anodynes—preferably by suppository, a little belladonna being combined with opium—and rest in bed, with hot hip or full baths, and hot local fomentations, are the most important remedies.