484 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE URETHRA. influence of traumatism, of fatigue, of errors of regimen, or, again, of too rapid dilatation of a stricture. The treatment consists in the application to the perineum of emollient cataplasms and of resolvent pomades, and in the employment, as prudently as possible, of bougies and catheters. Abscesses of the pendulous portion of the penis are sometimes multiple, and form little nodules which are hard, painless, adherent to the canal, and covered by perfectly healthy and movable skin. They may remain a long- time stationary, and sometimes even terminate by resolution. Much oftener, they are seen to inflame, soften, and finally open on the cutaneous surface. One might believe, in such a case, that the collection was a simple peri- urethral abscess, were it not for the persistence of the cutaneous opening and for the presence of urine in the liquid which escapes from it. Tumors and Neoplasms of the Urethra.—Cancer.—Primitive cancer of the urethra (epithelioma) is extremely rare, and almost always the organ is invaded secondarily. This will be referred to in another article, in connec- tion with cancer of the penis. Vegetations or Polypi.—I have already, when speaking of the pathological anatomy of stricture, said something about the carnosities or caruncles which are described by ancient authors, and which, though rare, may be met with in the urethra in the shape of little vegetations situated behind the stricture. Are these true polypi of the urethra ? Thompson, indeed, reports the obser- vation of a urethra, presenting at the junction of the prostatic and membranous portions a pedunculated tumor, nine lines long and three or four broad; but Voillemier expresses some doubts as to the true nature of this production, which appear all the more well founded, since Pro, who described the same specimen, considered the supposed polypus a simple fold of the mucous mem- brane. There are sometimes met in the fossa navicularis pathological pro- ducts which present a structure absolutely analogous to that of the vegeta- tions seen on the surface of the prepuce and of the glans. They are slowly developed in the interior of the canal, where they preserve a rather elongated shape, but spread as soon as they have passed outside of the meatus. Their treatment is simple. It consists in tearing or cutting oft' the little tumors. Vices of Conformation of the Urethra. The vices of conformation of the urethra present numerous varieties which may be all referred to a small number of well-defined types, which we shall examine in the following order ; congenital strictures, occlusions of the meatus and of the urethra, urinary pouches, hypospadia and epispadia. Congenital Strictures.—Congenital narrowing of the meatus is often observed. It is sometimes so pronouuced that it hardly permits the intro- duction of a very delicate stylet, and causes great hindrance to micturition. It frequently accompanies phimosis. The existence of congenital strictures situated at other points of the urethra does not appear to have been perfectly demonstrated. An observation of Phillips and another of Syme, reproduced by some authors as cases of congenital stricture, refer to patients affected with dysuria from their infancy, and in whom nothing authorizes us. to admit the existence of such a stricture. The few records of pathological anatomy concerning individuals in whom have been discovered membranous folds of the mucous membrane, sorts of valvules simulating strictures, are themselves of only moderate assistance toward the elucidation of this question.