CLUB-FOOT. 1029 Fig. 1478. compressed out of shape from mere inability to hold its natural position. The character of the deformity is shown in Fig. 1478; in comparing this case with that of advanced congenital varus, Fig. 1477, page 1025, it will be observed that the para- lytic foot is more displaced at the ankle-joint, but not so much distorted in itself; the cause of this difference depends upon the method of de- velopment in the two cases. In congenital varus, the distortion commences at an early period of foetal life, and the bones of the tarsus are dragged out of place by active muscular contraction ; in paralytic varus, the flexors and eversors of the foot are deprived to a greater or less extent of their con- tractile power, and the foot falls into a state of extension and inversion which gradually becomes established as a confirmed deformity, from the pressure brought to bear upon the foot in standing and walking. Paralytic varus. (After Adams.). Non-congenital talipes varus, the result of spasmodic muscular contraction, is more nearly assimilated to congenital varus than is the paralytic condition of distortion. Fig. 1479 is taken from a cast of the foot of a boy aged Fig. 1479. Spasmodic varus. eleven years, who was affected with spasmodic varus ; the case presents nothing of the feebleness which is so marked in the paralytic condition i Fig. 1478, but it so far differs from the case of advanced congenital varus, Fig, 1477, that the distortion of the foot itself is less severe, this, as in the paralytic variety, being due to the fact that the deformity is developed at a period of life when the formation of the foot is fairly advanced. Treatment of Non-con genital Varus.—In treating non-congenital varus, the same measures are employed as in the reduction of the congenital variety. With regard to paralytic varus, the use of tenotomy must be guided by the same laws that have been given when describing the treatment of equinus. Varus the result of spasmodic contraction of the muscles, in which shorten-