948 SCROFULO-TUBERCULOUS AND OTHER STRUCTURAL DISEASES OF BONES. cartilaginous material, or simply plastic exudation between the fragments. Bony consolidation is seen only in benign forms, or in the early stages. After having examined a large number of cases, it seems to me that Volk- mann has perhaps exaggerated the truth in the following statement: “ What- ever may he said, these fractures usually heal without difficulty by bony callus, as in healthy individuals.” (a) Bones of the Cranium and Face.—The cranium may be rounded, or flattened laterally if the lateral decubitus is habitual. Usually it is but little deformed. Its sutures are effaced. The thickness of its walls is increased ; in many cases it attains a thickness of from two to four lines (Souligoux),1 one centimetre in the occipital region and seven millimetres in the temporal region (Mommsen and Langendortf), one centimetre and a half in the region of the parietal bones (Mondan),2 14 to 16 lines in the region of the parietals, that is to say, four times the normal thickness (Paget).3 The two tables are hardly distinguishable from the diploe, which is com- posed of spongy tissue with large meshes, filled with yellow marrow. The frontal sinuses have been found very much diminished in size, and the sphe- noidal sinuses obliterated, the digital depressions being shallow, while the grooves for the branches of the middle meningeal artery were deepened. At the same time that they become thickened, the bones of the cranium become softened ; they may be cut with the scissors or a knife. In the case of the Marquis Bernard d’Armagnac4 they were said to be as soft as softened wax. The bones of the face are not always spared, they have been'found thickened and softened, especially the lower jaw. Softening of this bone was present in different degrees in Souligoux’s case, in which one part was soft, another sp»ongy, another eburnated. All the teeth preserved their normal solidity— let us not forget that the patient was young. It has been noticed that the lower jaw is constantly the last attacked. This is possible, because after this it would not be long before the patient died of starvation. The teeth it is said are usually not affected by the pro- cess, which would be explained by their different embryonic evolution. Nevertheless, Isenflam, Leblon, and Plenck, have found them also softened; Krause says that he has seen them cartilaginous. I believe that generally they cannot be found at all; for as the softened bones and gums fail to support them, they soon fall out.6 (ib) Vertebral Column.—The spine is most commonly deformed by exagge- ration of its normal curves. Cyphosis and cypho-scoliosis have been observed ; but there may be the most unforeseen deviations, depending upon the degree of the softening and upon the parts of the column affected. The degree of shortening of the spinal column is proportioned to that of the abnormal flexions. It may be as great as thirty centimetres, which will be understood when the bodies of the vertebrae are seen reduced almost to their inter-verte- bral disks. It is interesting to note that there has not yet been mentioned a diminution in the size of the vertebral canal, nor consequently any phe- nomenon of compression of the cord. Volkmann has seen the height reduced a foot and more in a few weeks, in consequence of diminution in the thick- ness of the bodies of the vertebrae, and of abnormal curvatures. (c) Clavicles.—These bones break near their inner third, or are deformed by softening with exaggeration of their natural sigmoid curvature; the usual effect is to bring the shoulders together and to diminish the upper transverse diameter of the trunk. ' Op. cit., p. 108. 2 Loc. cit., p. 119. 3 Loc. cit., p. 8, and Plate IV. 4 Mercure, Mars, 1007. 6 See Gusserow, Ueber das Ausfallen der Zahnen bei Osteomalacie. (Monatblatt f. Geb., Bd. xxiii.)