INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS OF THE BONES. 844 which they explain by the presence of fat and by the chemical properties of this tissue. As a corollary to these propositions, free incisions of the peri- osteum and trephining of the medullary canal are formally recommended, and antiseptic indications are clearly formulated.1 In this work of doctrinal expo- sition and of criticism, which is very remarkable for the times, Van Swieten describes inflammation of the external periosteum and of the internal peri- osteum or marrow. He insists upon the lesser gravity of inflammation of the external periosteum, and dwells at length upon the infection produced by corruption of the medullary oil. This infection, starting from the mar- row, passes through the bones, reaches the periosteum, and then infects it and spreads through the tissues of the members. Hence the need for very energetic treatment to arrest this medullary corruption and the infection which is its consequence. There is doubtless much which is vague in some of these descriptions, but it has appeared to me of interest to refer to these theories which, expressed in more modern style, are no different from those by which we are guided to-day. It is also interesting to recall the boldness of certain therapeutic precepts which we are very apt to consider new, and which are explicitly formulated in books which were classic a hundred years ago. But these precepts were rarely put into practice, and unfortunately remained as a dead letter to the majority of surgeons. In this article I purpose to study inflammations of the bones in general, dwelling especially upon acute and spontaneous inflammations, since traumatic inflammations have been already studied2 in connection with fractures, and since chronic inflammations will receive fuller treatment in the article devoted to scrofulous and tuberculous bone-lesions. Nevertheless, I shall examine the different forms of chronic osteitis, and I shall give some space to the chronic lesions which are the consequence and sequel of acute osteitis. In connection with this I shall take up questions heretofore little studied, such as the influence of osteitis upon the growth of the bones, and the remote conse- quences of acute inflammations occurring in infancy and adolescence. One of the most important matters to bear in mind in the study of inflam- mation of bone, is the influence of age; these affections are so linked to the development of the skeleton that they differ entirely in infancy and in mature life. The study of the development of the bones throws special light upon these affections, and explains their character, their course, and their termination in a multitude of circumstances. It enables us to under- stand their seat of election in different parts of the bone, and explains their frequency in different bones or in different parts of the same bone. There- fore we should always remember the close relation which exists between the physiological processes of growth and the various pathological processes. This notion is indispensable to the interpretation of diseases of the bones ; by it everything is set in order and simplified. Effects of Irritation on the Various Constituents of Bones. Bone is made up of three different tissues which enter into its structure to a greater or less extent, according to the age of the subject and according to the different regions. The periosteum, the bone-substance proper, and the marrow, are the constituent parts of bone. To these three tissues should be added a fourth, cartilage, which no longer exists, or at least exists only 1 Hermann Boerliaave, Aphorismes de Chirnrgie, commentes par Van Swieten, t. v. (Des maladies des os.) 2 See Article on Injuries of tlie Bones. Vol. IV., page 1, supra.