INJURIES AND DISEASES OF TIIE URETHRA. 504 with various complications. To the soft and painless oedema which characterizes it at the outset, soon succeeds a painful oedema, more resistant to the touch ; the skin at the level of the various invaded points loses its normal appearance, becomes hot and shining, and is covered with an erysipe- latous redness. Soon, in a number of places, spots are seen to appear, at first copper colored, but afterwards violaceous and dusky, and light pressure on their surface gives the sensation of tine crepitation, resulting from the col- lision of the gases which are largely developed in the centre of the mortified parts. Little by little these eschars separate from the neighboring parts, and when they are detached they leave behind them irregular openings, through which the mortified cellular tissue is eliminated in the form of grayish filaments and masses. Large surfaces may thus be despoiled of their, integuments, and the testicles and the penis may, upon the falling off of the eschars, be found exposed and deprived of their enveloping membranes. Altogether different are the symptomatic characteristics of infiltration when, having its origin in a lesion of the prostatic urethra, it occurs in the upper perineal space. Limited above by the pelvic fascia and below by the triangular ligament, the urine can then escape easily, only backwards, on the sides of the rectum, and into the ischio-rectal fosste. Then it is in the poste- rior part of the perineal region that there is found a diffuse doughiness, rather than a true tumor, and afterwards gangrenous patches, the separation of which by sloughing leaves behind deep and extensive gaps. If the local symptoms of urinary infiltration vary with its situation, the general symptoms by which it is accompanied are always, except as to intensity, very much the same. The irruption of urine into the cellular tissue is marked by a chill, sometimes single, but oftener repeated with variable violence. At the same time the pulse is quickened, becomes small, and the patient falls rapidly into profound adynamia, to which he may succumb, but from which he usually rallies if the surgeon interferes actively, or at the moment of the spontaneous fall of the eschars. If the ravages have not been too great, when the mortified parts are once detached from the healthy parts, healthy suppuration may be established, and the gaps may rapidly fill up, leaving in their place only one or more fistulie. Too often, unfortunately, this amelioration of the general condition is only temporary, and, after cica- trization seems to be progressing, it is not uncommon to see patients, worn out by long and profuse suppuration, succumb to hectic fever when every- thing seemed to justify the hope of their speedy recovery. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of infiltration of urine is generally easy. Per- haps on a superficial examination this affection may at first be mistaken for diffuse phlegmon or for erysipelas; but the history, gathered by interro- gating the patient, will usually make it impossible to long persist in such an error. More difficult to recognize is infiltration which has its seat in the pelvic cellular tissue. The sudden appearance, in a patient affected with a urinary lesion, of hiccough, of greenish vomit, and of cold sweats, with a frequent and small pulse, may of itself put the surgeon on the track of the diagnosis. Treatment.—Two principal indications present themselves in the treatment of urinary infiltration. It is necessary: 1st, to give exit to the infiltrated urine; 2d, to re-establish the natural flow of this liquid. In dealing with an infiltration at its outset, when there is as.yet only a perineal tumor, it is wise to make an incision at the very spot of the infiltration, and at the presumable level of the tear in the canal. This incision should, therefore, be median, and to be efficacious it should extend in depth to the very focus of the infiltration. In infilt rations which are already extensive, such an intervention would be insufficient, and to the deep median incision should