440 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF TIIE URETHRA. lowqr wall. The spongy tissue is torn at the same level, and furnishes the greater part of the hlood which flows from the meatus. The fibrous tunic usually gives way, allowing hlood to he effused into the tissues of the peri- neum ; but it may remain intact, when the focus of injury communicates with the urethra alone. In such cases the hemorrhage from the urethra is much more abundant, and continues almost without interruption. There is no retention of urine, properly so called, but micturition is difficult, and painful. Moreover, catheterization is usually possible if care be taken to follow the upper wall of the canal with the beak of the catheter, and, final]}7, the peri- neum is the seat of a more or less voluminous tumor. In such cases, in spite of the extent of the lesion, complete recovery may follow under proper treat- ment; but in the great majority of instances complications arise, ranging from a simple abscess to a more or less extensive phlegmon with the forma- tion of a variable number of fistulse. In cases of decided gravity the rupture is always complete, often total, and accompanied by considerable retraction of the divided ends. Retention of urine is absolute, catheterization impossible -or exceedingly difficult, the hemorrhage from the urethra copious, and the perineal tumor voluminous. The abundant effusion of blood and the laceration of the neighboring tissues bring about, almost inevitably, one of the most formidable complications, infiltration of urine extending through the whole perineum. Finally, it must not be forgotten that all ruptures of the urethra, however slight they may be, lead as a remote consequence to the formation of a stricture. This result is constant, and rarely requires more than two months to manifest its existence. Treatment.—The numerous and deep discussions of which the management of ruptures of the urethra have formed the subject, make it possible at the present day to lay down rules for their treatment with sufficient, precision. In what follows I shall have in view chiefly ruptures of the perineal portion. Here the division which I have made into cases of slight gravity, cases of moderate gravity, and cases of decided gravity, is of great importance. In cases of slight gravity, the part of the surgeon ought to be one of temporizing and watching: to meet the immediate exigencies, to combat hemorrhage by compression and cold, to overcome retention of urine by catheterization with a flexible catheter, to await events, and to watch what is going on in the perineum so as to be ready to act, at the first sign of inflammation or infil- tration. In cases of moderate gravity, an attempt should be made to prevent the passage of urine into the focus of the rupture by means of the introduction and retention of a catheter, of a size large enough to fill the canal. At the same time the state of the perineum must he watched with attention, so as to act at the slightest threat of infiltration or of phlegmon. If catheterization be impossible, we should proceed as in cases of decided gravity, which are next to be considered. Here the retention of urine on the one hand, and, on the other hand, the difficulty, danger, and often impossibility of catheterization, furnish the indication for treatment. To meet it the surgeon has two methods at, his disposition: puncture of the bladder, and perineal section, or, rather, immediate external urethrotomy. Supra-puhic puncture, the only form to which recourse should be had, carried out with either the ordinary trocar or the capillary aspirator, may be temporarily employed, especially if the sur- geon is not prepared for more serious operative intervention. But this is only a palliative measure, giving only temporary relief, and by no means preventing suppuration of the perineal tumor and the establishment of fistula}. On the contrary, immediate external urethrotomy, at the same time that it