23 MORBID GROWTHS OF THE (ESOPHAGUS. doing well five years after the operation. In another case1 it was necessary to perform precautionary tracheotomy before ligating the tumor. In this instance the ligated portions of the tumor were passed by the rectum, but the patient died of inanition two years afterwards, from dysphagia caused by the portions left behind. The propriety of securing the ligature externally in order to control the tumor in case of accident, is exemplified by an instance in which a patient was found dead in bed some days after this operation, with the tumor in his pharynx completely occluding the larynx.2 Another success- ful case of ligature completes,3 it is believed, the records of this procedure. At the present day it is likely that the electric-cautery loop might be em- ployed instead of the ligature; but the fact that these tumors are sometimes very vascular, and that secondary hemorrhage might be serious, is not to be ignored in selecting the more rapid method of severance. That removal with the horse-hair parasol-probang can be accomplished in cases of growths with soft attachments, has been shown by two accidental instances in which that manipulation had been undertaken for supposed foreign bodies.4 One case of removal of a growth the size of a white currant, discovered oesophagoscopically, is on record;5 but the nature of the operation is not indicated. (Esophagotomy has been suggested for access to tumors high up, and gastrotomy for those low down ; but no records of these pro- cedures having been practised in cases of the kind now under consideration have come to my knowledge. Malign Growths.—(1) Sarcoma.—But two records of sarcoma of the (Esophagus seem to be accessible. In one, digital exploration produced such dyspnoea that tracheotomy had to be performed immediately ; the tumor, a round-celled sarcoma, being subsequently removed by subhyoidean pharyn- gotomy from the right side of the oesophagus just below its pharyngeal orifice.6 The other, an alveolar sarcoma at the entrance of the oesophagus, occurred in a woman who died of inanition.7 Several tumors, partially con- nected, and varying in diameter from half an inch to two inches, occupied the lower part of the pharynx and the upper part of the oesophagus, almost occluding the latter. (2) Carcinoma.—Carcinoma of the oesophagus is far more frequent than the other varieties of morbid growth, if not more frequent than any other form of oesophageal disease. Judging from my own practice and that of my associates in Philadelphia, the belief is entertained that the published eases of carcinoma of the oesophagus represent but a small proportion of the cases actually observed. Still, it is far rarer than carcinoma of the stomach8 and of some other organs. Carcinoma of the oesophagus is most frequently of the squamous-celled vari- ety of epithelioma, fifty-four of the fifty-nine cases studied by Mr. Butlin9 having been of this histological character, as compared with three small spheroidal-celled (scirrhous), one large spherofdal-celled (medullary), and one 1 Dallas’s case, cited by Monro (London Medical Journal, 1771, and Edinburgh Physical and Literary Essays, vol. iii. p. 212) ; Monro, .Tr., op. cit., p. 186. 2 Dubois, Propositions sur diverses parties de Part de guerir, p. 8. These No. 104, Paris, 1818 ; cited by Mondiere. 3 Hofer, Acta Helvetica, tom. i. ; cited by Mondiere. 4 Mackenzie, op. cit., vol. ii. p. 104. 5 Ibid. 6 Rosenbach, Berliner klinische Wocliensehrift, 20 und 27 Sept. 1875. 7 Chapman, Am. Journ. Med. Sci., Oct. 1877, p. 433. 8 Tanchon, in a total of 9118 cases of cancer, found 2303 of the stomach and but 13 of the oesophagus ; cited by Lebert (Traite Pratique des Maladies Cancereuses, Sect. III., p. 442. Paris, 1851). 9 Sarcoma and Carcinoma, p. 161. London, 1882.