URINARY CALCULUS. 152 Op. cit., S. 25. the infant’s napkins with a No. 10 Hartnack immersion lens, and found them to be composed of masses spherical and dumb-bell in shape. Concentrated urine (as that of intra-uterine life always is), and concentrated colloids (those found in the recesses of the kidney tubules), thus seem to give a rounded (colloidal) shape instead of crystalline forms. It is noteworthy that this brown dust is found more often on the napkins of puny infants than upon those of robust babies. In examining specimens of kidney-substance after putrefaction had begun, large spherical globules were found in great abundance. Ultzmann does not mention colloids, but his testimony goes largely to sustain the assertions of Ord and Carter. His most recent conclusion is1 that uric-acid infarctions in the kidneys of the newly born are composed of balls or concentrated groups of tine needles of urate of sodium, which would go to prove that in this sense he is correct in believing that the pointed crystal favors calculous formation. Uric acid is normally present in all urine to the amount of about 10 grains daily. In the natural condition it is not free, but is in combination with alkaline bases which feebly hold it in solution. Any excess of acid of any other kind, such as the acid phosphate of sodium or (out of the body) lactic acid, from acid fermentation of the urine, combines with the bases of urinary salts, and liberates uric acid. If now crystallization takes place in presence of the feeble and dilute col- loids of the bladder, the crystals assume acicular or rhomboid forms, and are passed as gravel. If, on the contrary, the acid crystallizes in the thicker mucous colloid of the kidney-tubules, it may take the laminated form, and is, from its very origin, a stone ready to gather about itself a film of fresh colloid from the mucous membrane of the urinary tract wherever it may lie, the colloid being furnished by the irritation which the presence of the stone occasions, and ever ready in this film of colloid to attract by molecular coa- lescence fresh particles of uric acid out of the urine. Finally, the stone may excite inflammation of the mucous membrane, cause an outpouring of stringy mucus, decomposition of urine, and precipitation of phosphates, and then its film of colloid becomes a nidus for the deposit of phospliatic accretions, and secondary or alkaline stone formation goes on. Oxalate of lime in the same way, when in excess, from the food, or from ner- vous or other causes, may crystallize in its customary octohedral form, or in the modifying presence of a colloid of mucus, blood, or pus, may assume the dangerous dumb-bell or the spherical shape, and may become at once a possible stone. And so of other substances. The phosphates notably do not precipitate in a shape capable of forming stone, except in the presence of the colloid muco- pus coming from catarrhal inflammation. Even a foreign body, if unirritat- ing, may remain in the bladder for a considerable period, and no phosphates will precipitate upon it unless catarrhal inflammation be present. If a small, smooth nucleus gets into a healthy bladder, it may at first ex- cite only enough irritation to surround itself with a film of mucus, in which acid stone formation goes on indefinitely, until the presence of the foreign body excites vesical catarrh, when peripheral deposits of phosphates will take place. Effect of Age in Causing Stone Formation.—FTo period of life is exempt from the liability to stone. I have removed, by lithotomy (successfully), from the bladder of a boy of nine, three calculi, weighing collectively very nearly two ounces, which, according to the statement of the mother, had been diag- nosticated at the birth of the child. Many operators have reported cases