360 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE BLADDER AND PROSTATE. partly with forceps, I contrived to tear through this pedicle, and then extracted the detached mass with lithotomy forceps. I next, with my finger-nail, scratched out what I judged to be the root of the polypus, taking care not to perforate the coats of the blad- der, for fear of admitting the urine into the cellular tissue of the pelvis. The growth was of moderately firm structure, of the kind called fibroma or fibro-sarcoma. During four and twenty hours after the operation, great pain was experienced about the region of the bladder ; the urine flowed through the wound. For two days subse- quently there was comparative ease. Then the pain returned with even greater sever- ity than before the operation. It was relieved only by subcutaneous injections of mor- phia, the quantity of which we were obliged to increase till it amounted to three grains in the twenty-four hours. In the intervals, when the influence of the morphia was pass- ing off, the patient’s cries were loud and incessant. The wound became coated with phosphates, and the bowels were very constipated, evacuations being obtained with much difficulty through the agency of medicines and enemata. This state of things went on for about two months. We supposed that the disease had returned or had been incom- pletely removed, and we had little hope of the patient’s recovery. After that time, however, to our surprise, he began to mend ; the pain diminished, and the quantity of morphia was lessened; the wound assumed a healthy appearance and healed up ; the urine was passed by the natural passage, without pain and at longer intervals. In the early part of January, 1878, he was well enough to return home, and was quite well and at work in January, 1879. With reference to the treatment of the last two forms of vesical tumor which have been described, the remarks made in connection with the subject of papilloma are equally applicable. The removal of these growths has been safely effected by cystotomy, which is, as a rule, to he recommended. Before proceeding to consider the remaining group of tumors affecting the bladder, I would take the opportunity of urging the more general employ- ment of cystotomy as an exploratory operation in cases of doubtful nature, where there are good reasons for believing that the disease is situated within the limits of the bladder, and where other treatment has failed to give relief. Where tumors have in this way been discovered, and have been found to be beyond removal, the patient’s condition has not, as a rule, been seriously aggravated by a properly performed cystotomy. On the contrary, there are many instances where, though the operation may have failed to cure, it has relieved by freeing the patient from the distress which is invariably associated with impeded micturition and pent-up discharges, derived both from the urine and from the growths. [Dr. Stein,1 of New York, has collected 98 cases in which tumors have been removed from the bladder, 53 in male and 45 in female patients. The nature of the operation, and the result, in these cases, may be seen from the following table:—■ Nature of operation. Cases. Recov- ered. Died. Undeter- mined. Mortality per cent. (Males). External perineal urethrotomy 31 17 14 43.9 Perineal cystotomy ...... 10 6 3 i 33.3 Supra-pubic cystotomy ..... 10 8 2 88.9 Perineal and supra-pubic incisions combined 2 l’ ’ 1 50.0 (Females). Urethral dilatation ...... 37 24 10 3 29.4 Vaginal incision ...... 8 5 3 ... 37.5 Aggregates ...... 98 53 39 6 39.8 1 Medical Record, March 14, 1885.