543 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE PENIS. of a stony hardness, the glans being nodular, but not fungating. The hardness and the general appearance were such that it was uncertain, until a microscopic examination had been made, whether the case was one of epithelioma or one of scirrhus. The penis was amputated, and was interesting as a specimen, as the disease (epithelioma) had evidently invaded the corpus spongiosum, which was much thickened, and had spared the corpora cavernosa. The prognosis in these cases is much more hopeful than in epithelioma in other situations, and cases are recorded in which patients thus affected have lived for many years. Sir Vm. Lawrence operated on a patient who was quite well twelve years afterwards, and Sir Wm. Fergusson amputated the penis of a man of note in the political world, who lived many years after the operation and died at an advanced age. I assisted Mr. Henry Smith, on two occasions, to remove from the glans and from just below the urethra of a gentleman, some vegetations of a cancerous appearance. The growths recur- red after the first operation, but not after the second, which was performed more than ten years ago. I was not so fortunate myself in a case at King’s College Hospital A respectable-looking, married man applied with a phimosis attended with an offen- sive discharge, and induration of the glans penis. As the case got worse under the application of lotions, instead of better, I slit up the foreskin and discovered that the glans penis was covered with vegetations of a suspicious appearance. I admitted him into the hospital, intending to remove his penis, but the late Sir Wm. Fergusson, who kindly saw the case in consultation with me, advised the removal of the growths. I removed the tumors, cutting well into the surface from which they grew. The man was in due course discharged from the hospital, but soon reappeared, with a few of the growths which had returned in the old situation. These were kept in check by means- of caustics, but the inguinal glands enlarged with great rapidity, the skin ulcerated, and a fungus hsematodes resulted and soon destroyed the patient. This case, which seemed a favorable'one for operation as far as the local disease was concerned, was rapidly fatal owing to the glandular affection. It is necessary to examine the case carefully before deciding upon an ope- ration, as in some instances the tumors can be removed, whereas, in others am- putation must be done. When the prepuce alone is involved, it must be freely removed. In these cases the nearest inguinal glands become affected only after the disease has existed for some time, and metastatic formations are rarely found in the internal organs. In some instances the disease does not extend readily through the tough fibrous tissue which forms the sheath of the corpora cavernosa, but in others the trabecular tissue is extensively invaded. The operation is a hopeful one, because the whole of the disease can be effectually removed. In some cases, however, although the site of the opera- tion remains sound, the inguinal glands may become diseased. The patient then becomes cachectic, and dies worn out by pain, hemorrhage, and the constant discharge. Epithelioma of the penis lias to be distinguished from induration due to syphilis, and from non-malignant vegetations. The appearance and history of the patient will often help the surgeon: the man may be a married, middle- aged, respectable-looking man, denying that he has been exposed to contagion, although the nature of the case and the operation necessary for its cure be put clearly before him. In doubtful cases, local and constitutional remedies must be carefully tried before the knife is resorted to. In simple vegetations the surface of the glans is of its normal color, smooth, and not indurated; and when the warts are removed, the cut surfaces granulate healthily, re- main smooth, and heal soundly. In malignant cases the pain is sharp and the general health suffers, and the importance of an early operation is obvi- ous. The base of the growths is hard, and the discharge is very offensive.