1014 ORTHOPEDIC SURGERY. tenotomy; if, on the other hand, flexion beyond the right angle can be obtained to such an extent that the patient, with the foot placed on the ground, can bend the knee so far forwards as to bring it in a line with the great toe, tenotomy is not required ; it is the condition of contraction between these two degrees which renders the question of resorting to section of the tendon one requiring some care to decide upon. Section of Tendo Achillis.—The division of this tendon in a healthy leg, or when practising on the dead subject, is a very simple operation ; but in the case of paralytic equinus, it is by no means so easy to divide the tendon deftly; in the paralyzed limb all the tissues are much wasted, there is con- sequently very little subcutaneous fat, and the skin folds closely over the ten- don, bringing it into strong relief. This is so far an advantage that the size of the tendon can be readily computed, but it renders the performance of. subcutaneous division much more difficult than it would be if the superficial tissues were less closely adjacent to the structure which has to be divided. The dangers which have to be avoided are, making a second puncture of the skin on the opposite side of the leg to that on which the tenotome is entered, increasing the size of the first puncture during the section of the tendon so- as to produce a gaping wound, and lastly cutting through the skin over the tendon after division of the latter has been completed. All these accidents have frequently happened in practice : the first is of no great importance, but the two latter may lead to serious complications; they usually arise from too great haste on the part of the operator to complete the section of the tendon,, although the misfortune of cutting through the skin over the tendon may be chiefly due to want of caution on the part of the assistant who holds the- limb. In performing the operation, the patient is placed in the prone posi- tion, and an assistant, standing on the left side of the operator, tightens the tendon by holding the leg firmly with his left hand and with his right grasping and flexing the foot; the calf of the leg must not be gripped tightly so as to interfere with the circulation, nor must the foot be too for- cibly flexed. The operator enters the tenotome, holding it as he would a pen, at the thinnest portion of the tendon, about a line from its edge, and, in the position in which the patient is placed, near its upper surface,1 the flat side of the blade being towards the tendon; the knife is pushed obliquely down- wards, and passed behind the tendon until the edge of the latter opposite to the side of puncture is reached; the handle is then depressed until the knife is horizontal, when the cutting edge is turned and the tendon divided by even strokes of the blade; as the last few fibres are divided, the knife must be kept under command, since otherwise, especially if the foot is forcibly flexed, the. blade will be jerked against the skin and an open wound made over the tendon. The object of entering the knife well above the lower surface of the tendon, and passing it obliquely downwards, is to avoid enlarging the puncture during the performance of the operation; if entered too low down, the handle has to be depressed, and the tendon is scratched through with the point of the knife instead of with a few free sweeps of the blade. The complete division of the tendon is followed by separation of the divided ends, the amount of space which intervenes depending upon the contractile power of the gastrocnemius and soleus muscles. If these are much wasted, the space will be very small; but if they are in a fairly healthy condition, the separation will be to about the extent of one inch. If the tendon has not been perfectly severed, the knife has probably pierced its deeper fibres instead of passing underneath it, or else it has not been carried 1 Anatomically its posterior surface; but to avoid confusion in this description, anatomy is dis- regarded, and the position of the patient rules the terms as to direction.