574 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. Mr. Syme1 narrates the following instructive case of hydrocele of the cord : A man, aged 24, was said to have suffered from an enlargement of both testicles for two years. The swelling on the left side was due to an enlargement of the testicle, while that on the right consisted of fluid to more than half of its extent. The hydrocele could be diminished by pressure, and in making the patient take the horizontal posture, a well- defined oval tumor, obvious to sight and touch, ascended nearly to the umbilicus. When the two parts of the swelling were compressed alternately, a distinct fluctuation was perceived between them. On tapping the hydrocele, twenty-eight ounces of fluid were drawn off, and both parts of the cavity were emptied. The fluid reaccumulated in ten days. The operation was repeated, and three ounces of fluid were drawn off, when two drachms of the tincture of iodine were injected. The usual swelling and other symptoms of excitement followed for a few days; and, after they subsided, there was no return of the fluid. The hydrocele in this case occupied the cord and not the tunica vaginalis ; since, in the latter situation, the fluid would have surrounded the testicle, instead of lying, as it did, entirely above it; and if the fluid had had access to the cavity of the peritoneum, it would not have been circumscribed within the limits of a distinct tumor. Congenital hydrocele of the spermatic cord is of rare occurrence, and is due to a patent condition of the funicular process of the tunica vaginalis. As a matter of fact, the portion which corresponds to the canal of Auck, in the female, remains open above, being obliterated below, and allows fluid to pass backwards and forwards from the general cavity of the peritoneum into the cyst. The following case well illustrates the symptoms and treatment of the complaint:— A post-office boy, aged 1G, presented himself with a swelling about the size of a small walnut; it was smooth, transparent, elastic like a hydrocele, freely movable under the skin, and evidently connected with the cord, which was distinctly to be felt both above and below it. There was a vague impulse transmitted to it on coughing, but it was not the distensile impulse due to a hernia; the swelling became gradually less on pressure when the patient was lying down, and reappeared, but slowly, when he stood up ; it became less after a night’s rest. A puncture evacuated rather more than a teaspoonful of fluid, which was clear and devoid of spermatozoa. The boy had been told that he was suffering from a rupture, and that he was to wear a truss. I dissented from the diagnosis, but approved of the treatment recommended, which soon effected a cure without a repetition of the tapping. On first seeing the patient I considered the case to be one of ordinary encysted hydrocele of the cord ; but my suspicions were aroused because of its reappearance in a few days after puncture, when, on more careful examination, I found that the swelling could be dispersed into the abdomen by steady pressure, and that as it disappeared a creaking sensation was felt. The channel of communication in this case was doubtless small, probably about the size of a small probe. Mr. Furneaux Jordan2 recommends for the cure of congenital hydrocele of the cord, pressure on the neck of the sac and injection of iodine; in cases of cystic hydrocele, he draws off the fluid by means of threads and then impregnates their ends with liuimentum iodi. The same plan is also useful in the treatment of the small cysts with thin walls which collapse when tapped, and which are in consequence difficult to inject. General Remarks on the Diagnosis of Hydrocele.—In the diagnosis between hydrocele and other scrotal swellings, we must bear in mind the symptoms which have been already pointed out as belonging to the former. In hydrocele the swelling is dull on percussion, translucent, tense, smooth, painless, and covered by healthy skin. The testis may only be discoverable by firm pres- sure, giving rise to testicular sensation. The spermatic cord, as a rule, can 1 Contributions to the Pathology and Practice of Surgery, p. 302. 1848. 2 Lancet, vol. ii. p. 537. 1877.