ORCHITIS. 611 should be applied to procure the absorption of the products of inflammation. The patient is placed on a couch, the scrotum is shaved, and the swollen testi- cle, well separated from its fellow, is isolated in the lower part of the scrotum by a narrow strip of wash-leather strapping passed above it and encircling the cord; then narrow pieces of good strapping, about an inch broad, are passed from above downwards and before backwards, and pressure is made until the whole of the gland is comfortably encased by the strapping, which is finished otf by another piece encircling the ends above; this must be re- newed when it becomes loose, as it soon will do, owing to the subsidence of the swelling. It is important to procure an early absorption of the effusion in epididymitis, and for this purpose small doses of mercury are given: the mercurial ointment may be used so as to affect the gums slightly, or the liq. hydrarg. perchloridi may be given, combined with iodide of potassium and decoct, cinchonse. Locally, absorption may be stimulated by the application of tincture of iodine, or of blistering fluid, lightly painted on. The cure will be expedited by change of air and generous diet. When the epididymitis is due to urethral stricture, this must be dilated. Operative Treatment.—In cases of acute orchitis, with effusion of serum into the tunica vaginalis, the pain may be relieved by puncturing the membrane with a small knife, or by acupuncture. Vidal (de Cassis) recommended incision (debridement) of the tunica albuginea,, in cases where the local or constitutional symptoms were severe. He declared that by division of the tunica albuginea the pain due to tension was relieved, and that the gland was in consequence less liable to injury. Mr. Curling is strongly opposed to this plan of treatment, but confesses that neither himself nor M. Gosselin, who approves his views on the subject, has practised the operation. M. Gosselin says that the cases in which puncture has been practised, or the great, majority of them, have been eases of gonorrhoeal orchitis, in which the body of the tes- ticle very seldom suffers, and that the relief is due to the incision of the tunica vaginalis and the escape of the contained hydrocele fluid. He also doubts whether the tunica albuginea is opened at all, and says that he should expect an immediate hernia, or a secondary escape, of the seminal tubes to follow. In contrast to the large number (400) operated on by M. Vidal, M. Demarquay mentions four cases,1 in three of which, after puncture for acute orchitis, the patient entirely lost his testicle by the escape of the seminal tubes; in the fourth the loss was partial. Salleron mentions that two soldiers lost their testicles in the same manner after like treatment.2 In 1876, Mr. Henry Smith, of King’s College Hospital, advocated the treatment of acute orchitis, from gonorrhoea, by "puncture of the body of the testicle. A narrow-bladed knife is passed into the most swollen part of the gland, and a puncture, the width of the knife-blade, is made in the tunica albuginea. Mr. Smith has had occasion to perform this operation many times, and I have myself followed his example in acute cases. In the case of a friend who had struck his left thigh violently against a desk, the left testicle became acutely inflamed, and, as he would not then allow me to puncture it, I tried the usual sedative remedies ; but these were so slow in their action, and he suf- fered so much pain, that he was afterwards glad to allow a puncture to be made. I passed a narrow-bladed knife through the coverings of the testicle into its substance; a quantity of serum spurted out from a small hydrocele ; the relief was immediate. I have, of late, contented myself by puncturing with a large suture needle, in five or six places. I have punctured the epididymis, when swollen, with good result. I am unaware of any bad consequences after the puncture as 1 Bulletin General de Therapeutique, t. lv. p. 549. 1858. 2 Archives Generates de Medecine, Fevrier, 1870.