OVARIAN AND UTERINE TUMORS. 838 • uterus is completely freed, repeat the same process on the other side. The difficulty and the risk of hemorrhage here are greatly increased, if ablation of the ovaries and tubes is attempted. If apparently healthy, they should he left. 5. Cut away the uterus and examine the pedicles carefully; when all bleeding has ceased, close the peritoneal wound with catgut sutures, and fasten the pedicles into the line of closure by a silk or wire suture, a rubber drainage-tube being passed through the centre and maintained by the vaginal dressing. Through this the pelvic cavity may be washed out if the tempera- ture rises, or if the discharges become offensive. 6. Pack the vagina lightly with aseptic gauze; remove this in from three to six days, and the sutures in a fortnight. The results of this operation are as follows:1 up to January 1, 1884, there had been performed at the Berlin Institute, for carcinoma, 35 vaginal hysterectomies ; of these 9 ended fatally ; the result was unknown in 6; relapses within two years had occurred in 15; the patients had remained free from disease for two years or longer in 5. The student may also consult, with much advantage, two exhaustive papers ou this subject by Dr. Ch. Fenger, of Chicago, in the Am. Journal of Med. Sciences, Jan. 1882 ; and by Dr. P. F. Munde, in the Trans, of the Amer. Gyn. Society, vol. ix. p. 195. The latter author tabulates a series of 255 cases in this country and Europe, with a mortality of 72, or 28.23 per cent. Each year this ratio is diminishing. jExtirpation of Uterus by Abdominal Section.—This procedure was devised and published by Dr. Freund,2 of Strasbourg, in 1876, and seemed at first destined to have a brilliant future, but in the ten years during which it has been before the profession it has steadily waned in popularity, and in this country it is rarely performed. The steps are as follows:—• 1. An abdominal incision is made in the median line, as for ovariotomy, but extending to the symphysis pubis. The recti muscles may be partially divided near their pubic insertion, if the abdominal walls are very tense. When the peritoneum is opened, the intestines are drawn up, and, if neces- sary, are brought out and covered with hot carbolized cloths; the uterus is caught with stout forceps and is drawn forcibly up from the pelvis. Thus the vagina and all the uterine connections may be kept on the stretch. 2. The uterus is now dragged to one side and the opposite broad ligament is securely tied by a double ligature of braided silk, so passed on a blunt needle as to include, successively, the Fallopian tube, the ovarian artery, and the round ligament, thus controlling the pampiniform plexus of vessels. The womb is now tilted to the other side and the same process is repeated; the stout ligatures are left long, and are firmly held by assistants. Another ligature is now passed through the fornix vaginas, to control the uterine arteries; and very little of the vaginal tissue must be included in this loop, or the artery will not be compressed. 3. The bladder is next carefully separated from the womb with the nail and scalpel-handle, a sound being kept in the organ meanwhile. The uterus may now be cut away, a wedge-shaped piece being cut out of the cer- vix; the cut edges of the cervical stump are finally sewed together by deep sutures, and the peritoneum is carefully brought together around it; all bleeding points are carefully secured, the pelvis is minutely cleansed, the intestines are returned, and the abdominal wound is closed as after ovario- tomy. A drainage-tube should always be used. If it be desired to remove the entire cervix, the vaginal wall is opened 1 Amer. Journ. of Obstet., Feb. 1886, p. 208. 2 Samml. klin. Vortrage, No. 133; Centralbl. f. Gyn., No. 12, 1878.