VITAL AND ORGANIC LESIONS OF THE URETHRA. rigidity, which enables them to traverse the mucous membrane and burrow into the submucous cellular tissue, when they are believed to be engaged in the strictured portion. Another measure consists in introducing into the canal first one bougie, and then passing alongside of it one or several others to which the first serves as a guide. The bladder has like- wise been successfully penetrated in certain cases, by introduc- ing the bougie at the very moment when micturition was taking place. Finally, sometimes it is very advantageous to suspend every attempt for several days, prescribing to the patient rest and baths. Very often have I been able in this way to triumph at the first blow, so to speak, over strictures against which all my efforts had previously been futile. There are certain strictures, the dilatation of which can he easily carried to a certain degree, beyond which it is not possible to go without seeing pain, spasmodic contraction, hemorrhage, orchitis, and sometimes actual attacks of fever supervene. Such accidents ordinarily are the result of too rapid dilatation, and they are avoided by proceeding more slowly. If, how- ever, they persist in spite of these precautions, it is necessary to abandon •dilatation and to have recourse to another method of treatment. There is besides a variety of strictures called elastic or contractile, in which the coarcta- tion is reproduced with extraordinary rapidity as soon as the dilatation is suspended. This difficulty, which is encountered principally in strictures of cicatricial origin, also requires the abandonment of dilatation. To obtain iilcerative inflammatory dilatation, sometimes a bougie is forcibly introduced through the whole length of the stricture, sometimes strong pres- sure is exercised with the point upon the anterior part of the stricture, which is too tight to he passed. Such a procedure ought to be absolutely rejected, not only because it otters no advantage over atrophic dilatation, which is suited to the same cases, but also because it exposes the patient to most serious accidents. Thus ulceration has been seen to attack and destroy the spongy body, to extend to the corpora cavernosa, and then to determine either a deformity of the penis, resulting from an unavoidable, vicious cica- trix, or even a phlebitis followed by purulent infection and death. In all cases, the almost inevitable consequence of ulceration, even if limited to the mucous membrane and the submucous cellular tissue, is the formation of a cicatrix the extent of which is in proportion to the loss of substance, and the pro- duction of a cicatricial stricture always more serious than that which existed before. 2. Mechanical dilatation includes several operative procedures : (a) gradual mechanical dilatation ; (b) rapid mechanical dilatation ; (c) forced catheteriza- tion ; (d) sudden dilatation or divtdsion ; and (e) forced injections. (a) Gradual Mechanical Dilatation.—This is practised with bougies which are introduced into the urethra at more or less frequent intervals, and the size of which is gradually increased. These bougies should not play freely in the canal, but should penetrate it with slight friction, and be left then for quite a short time, only a few minutes. To effect this dilatation one may employ either more or less voluminous flexible bougies, or metallic sounds called Sondes de Benique. The series of Benique is composed of from thirty-five to sixty pewter sounds, cylindrical in shape, graduated in fifths or sixths of a milli- metre. Humber 1 has a diameter of four millimetres; the last number, which is the largest, has one of ten. When the stricture is very tight, we commence by bringing it up to four millimetres with ordinary bougies, in order to be able to introduce the first sound. The sittings usually take place 467 Fig. 1332. Elbowed and spirally twisted bougies.