METHOD OF OPERATING. 317 ment. That instrument is, however, the better to which the operator is the more accustomed. Sir Henry Thompson’s lithotrite1 has considerable advantages for stones that are neither too large nor too hard. The instruments hitherto described are fenestrated. Thompson’s has a small opening, yet for all practical purposes is closed, and the depression in the female blade permits it to receive and retain a considerable quantity of the fragments, which may generally be removed without injury to the canal. The means of releasing and of attaching the screw are placed on the handle of the female portion of the instrument. But to Thompson’s, as to all flat lithotrites insuffici- ently fenestrated, there are these objections: they become quickly filled with fragments, large and small, and the female blade, no matter how full, still permits additional matter to be pressed into it by the male blade, when perhaps the blades, separated by calculous matter, cannot be accurately closed, and have to he withdrawn in this way through the urethra. I have more than once seen difficulty in removing this instrument, and especially through the narrower portions of the urethra, where lacerations have apparently taken place. It is not always easy to prevent the overloading of the female blade, for the first turn of the screw or the first pressure of the unaided wrist may impact it with more than it can contain. The most dexterous must be prepared for this occurrence. Before the time of rapid lithotrity, before the time of washing out the bladder after the operation for crushing, Sir Henry Thompson’s instrument was deservedly a favorite one. It enabled the operator, with a fair-sized urethra, and one tolerant of manipulation and of the presence of instruments, to introduce any number of times an empty lithotrite, and remove a full one. And many times have I completed the operation of litho- trity in this way in two or three sittings. But, as already stated, repeated introductions and withdrawals are not advisable, however carefully performed, and a prolonged sitting means correspondingly numerous passages of the in- strument through a sensitive canal. There are man}' cases, however, in which Thompson’s lithotrite is still the best—cases in which friable and moderate- sized calculi are met with, and in which the urethra is capacious and pos- sessed of a minimum degree of sensibility. Bigelow’’s lithotrite2 has few advantages over Sir H. Thompson’s and Civiale’s flat instruments, save that it has a longer and larger female blade, turned down at the end to facilitate its introduction, and fenestrated at the heel for the reception of a projecting shoulder on the male blade. It is a flat instrument, and may be choked in the same way as Thompson’s or Civiale’s. When closed, the male is completely hidden within the female blade. The instrument breaks the stone effectually, but does not reduce it to fragments. To do this the broken pieces must be seized again and again. Its crushing power is not by any means equal to that of the open, fenestrated instrument; and it works by continuous pressure rather than by sharp, distinct, and inter- rupted crushings. The absence of lateral guides on the handle, to tell when the screw is on or off, is confusing; but the instrument-maker can easily remedy this defect. Dr. Gouley’s lithotrite (Fig. 1279) has some advantages not possessed by other instruments, but has disadvantages also. The edges are sharply cut- ting, but the hulk of the stone must be reduced by pressure, and pressure of a continuous kind. The dread of cutting the walls of the bladder by an instru- ment apparently equal to that work, is ill-founded. In this respect its construc- tion offers nothing more hazardous than that of the instruments longer in use. 1 See Figs. 1204-1210, pages 221, 222, supra. 2 See Figs. 1211—1213, page 223, supra.