PUNCTURE OF THE BLADDER. 411 4 Op. cit., p. 132. 3 St. Bartholomew’s Hospital Reports, 1881. instrument, the finger be for a moment pressed firmly above the pubis, the passage of the needle is rendered almost painless. In this respect it strongly contrasts with the distress occasioned by attempts at catheterization, where the difficulty is increased by the tension thrown on the stricture by the largely distended bladder. Aspiration may, if necessary, be repeated with impunity. Dr. W. Brown1 remarks: “ We used the aspirator daily, and on some occasions the pain was such as to require the operation to be performed twice in the day.”' Though reference is made to cases such as these for the purpose of illustrat- ing the safety which attends repeated aspiration of the bladder, they at the same time would seem to indicate that the conditions were such as to render some more permanent method of giving vent to the urine desirable. A case has been recorded by Dr. W. Macfie Campbell,2 in which urinary extravasa- tion along and around the track of the needle followed its reintroduction ; a circumstance which seems to suggest that when the operation has to be repeated, this should be done before anything like extreme tension of the viscus has been reached. The bladder may also be tapped in this situation with an ordinary trocar,, the canula being left in and retained by tapes. Here the object in view is of a more permanent character. Mr. Thomas Smith,3 in advocating this, proceeding, remarks: “ I am the only surgeon connected with a metropoli- tan hospital, who has systematically adopted the supra-pubic puncture for the relief of retention of urine, in preference to the rectal operation.” In support of this proceeding, as against puncture through the rectum, it is said, that it is easier of performance and quite as safe, that it does not inter- fere with defecation, and that there is no difficulty in retaining the canula or in replacing it; and further, that the management of the canula, as well as the mechanism for the discharge of urine, may be placed under the control of the patient. The only objection raised to the operation seems to be on the ground of an increased liability to urinary extravasation, which it is said to incur. Such a conclusion, however, is not warranted by the cases illustrat- ing Mr. Smith’s practice. Referring to this operation, Dr. Gross4 remarks:— Mr. Abernethy, who gave a decided preference to this mode of puncturing the bladder, often performed the operation with no other apparatus than a pocket scalpel and a lancet; he did not even always, it seems, leave a canula in the organ, the collapse of the sac sometimes preventing him from finding the opening he had made into it. Notwithstanding this he never witnessed any ill effects from the procedure, such as effu- sion of the urine into the connective tissue or the peritoneal cavity. The operation may be performed with an ordinary trocar and canula, a. small incision through the skin having been previously made with the knife. Through the canula, an elastic India-rubber catheter should be introduced and fixed in. For permanent wear, a shield of rubber or vulcanite may be attached, with a belt round the abdomen. This operation has been practised at all ages with good results. The late Mr. Wakley® recorded a case in which it was successfully performed on a child of the age of twenty months, cathe- terization being impossible by reason of the tension which immediately followed an injury to the perineum. Mr. Smith also remarks: “I have, at the Great Ormond St. Hospital, on three occasions, punctured the bladder for retention in children, with favorable results as far as the immediate and sub- sequent relief of the retention was concerned.” 1 Brit. Med. Journal, May 23, 1874. 6 Lancet, vol. ii., 1850. s Ibid., February 21, 1880.