1122 APPENDIX. a result of which great numbers of men are wounded in an almost incredibly short time; thus at St. Privat, in the Pranco-Prussian war of 1870, five thousand men were wounded in fifteen minutes; and at the assault by Grant on the enemy’s lines at Cold Harbor, in 1804, over ten thousand men were wounded (besides the killed), the greater part in ten minutes, and all in an hour’s time.1 Under such circumstances every resource of the medical depart- ment is brought into instant requisition, and must be at hand. It is, there- fore, no useless generality or routine advice to urge upon each medical officer to prepare himself as fully as possible for the great responsibilities which he is called on to bear. It may not be amiss to call to mind here, as a matter of personal interest to the young medical officer, that the so-called hardships of war are not in a well-disciplined army constantly in operation. They consist for the most part only of the deprivation of accustomed comforts and luxuries, which are unnecessary, and even incompatible with the best military spirit. The humane spirit of his profession should actuate the military surgeon to render to wounded men of the enemy who may fall under his care the same services that he gives to the wounded of his own army. “ There are no enemies within our sphere of action,” says Longmore. An enemy is no longer an enemy when disabled. Such is the advance made in recent times by the charitable spirit of the century, called into effect by the persistent efforts of military surgeons. Examination of Men for Enlistment.2—One of the first duties that the surgeon may be called on to perform is the medical examination of men for enlistment as soldiers; a duty the proper performance of which is of primary importance, and most far-reaching in its results. The great expense, and the injury to the service in all ways that the enlistment of men unfitted for war by physical infirmities causes, cannot well be overrated. Such men encumber the movements of troops, require the care of surgeons and attend- ants, and the use of an ambulance, and altogether are worse than useless. It is indisputable that extreme care in the selection of its material was one of the causes of the early invincibility of the Roman armies.3 A Roman writer has said, “ An army raised without due regard to choice of recruits was never yet made a good army by any length of service.” The haste and rapidity with which troops were raised in the early part of our late civil war, and the general inexperience, resulted in a most careless and inefficient mode of examination, and the expense as well as the impaired effectiveness of the troops was enormously increased. It is to be hoped and expected that should it again become necessary to raise large numbers of troops, the importance of a careful medical inspection of each man may not be overlooked, however great may be the apparent necessity for rapid enlist- ment. The regulations of the U. S. Army, and the instructions governing enlist- ment, prescribe in much detail the disqualifying injuries and diseases. Con- sidering that, in all probability, the medical officer called on at the outbreak of a war by the State authorities will have but slight experience in this direc- tion, it is advisedly suggested that at first, and until he shall have acquired some experience, he shall be guided only by the comprehensive General Regulations of 1881, paragraph 785, which are as follows :— 1 See Swinton’s Army of the Potomac, pages 483-485. 2 These instructions and suggestions are intended for officers who may he newly called to duty as military surgeons, and are not designed for those who may he charged with the higher ad- ministrative duties of the medical department. 3 Med. Statistics, Provost Marshal General’s Bureau, vol. i.