INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. 620 and form larger masses of tubercle, which destroy the tubules, and, becoming granular, lose their distinctive characters. The tunica vaginalis is chronically inflamed, and may contain fluid, generally in small quantity, though some- times the effusion is plentiful. The cavity is commonly partially obliterated by the presence of false membranes, and the obliteration in some instances may be complete. There may be serous collections in the small cells formed by fibrous bands stretching between the parietal and visceral layers of the tunica vaginalis. The bands and serous membrane are vascular, and some observers have noted tubercles scattered over them. Reclus says that the effusion, which occurs in one-third of these cases, differs from that of ordinary liydrocele-fluid, being very dense, of a greenish-yellow color, and containing fibrous masses, some free, and others attached; it becomes solid on the addition of nitric acid. Other observers have not noted any dif- ference. Broca has demonstrated the presence of greenish pus in the tunica vaginalis, which contained false membranes studded with tubercles. With the exception of fistulous openings, which are often multiple, and situated at the lower part of the swelling, the scrotal tissues are normal. Occasionally a depression is to be seen, and the fibrous tract of the sinus is to be felt, where a fistula has existed. The affection is rare during infancy, becomes common at puberty, attain- ing its maximum between 15 and 35 years. The disease may remain latent until called into existence by a blow or some other irritating cause. Reclus made thirty post-mortem examinations of men who had suffered from tubercu- losis of the genital organs, and found that tuberculosis existed twenty times in the lungs as well as in the genitals, while ten times it existed in the genitals only. In thirty clinical observations he found deposits in the lungs in sixteen. Two per cent, of phthisical men were found to suffer from tuberculosis of the genital organs. A certain number of patients suffering from caries of the spine present extensive strumous deposits in the epididymis. Reclus examined 34 cases, and found in 27 cases both the testicle and epididymis, and in 7 the epididymis alone affected. Virchow has only met with one case in an adult, and one in a boy aged 3^ years, where tubercular ulceration of the testicle had occurred without an affection of the epididymis, so rare is it to find the disease attacking the testicle alone. Mr. Thomas Jones1 showed at the Manchester Medical Society a tuberculous testicle removed from a child fifteen months old, who also suffered from disease of some of the cervical vertebrae. The body of the testicle was extensively invaded; the epididymis, on the contrary, was free from the disease ; there was no nodulation ; the cord and the scrotal veins were slightly enlarged. The vasa deferentia, vesiculte seminales, and prostate may be attacked simultaneously or separately. Leading pathologists who have paid special attention to this subject disagree as to the morbid changes presented in these cases. I have already stated Virchow’s view, that small miliary tubercles form in the loose intertubular connective tissue, where they become confluent and caseous, and that they never originate in the epithelium, or in the inte- rior of the tubules. They also form in the parietal connective tissue, espe- cially in that of mucous membrane, as in the epididymis, in the vas deferens, and in the seminal vesicles. JSTepveu holds that the miliary nodule springs from the adventitious coat of the bloodvessels. MM. Demme and Villemin consider tuberculosis to be an interstitial process.2 It has been contended that true tubercle always develops in the connective 1 British Med. Journal, vol. i. p. 662. 1880. 2 Mr. Hulke records an interesting case substantiating this view in the Medical Times and Gazette, vol. i., 1865.