657 FUNCTIONAL DISORDERS OF THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. bleeding. The spermatozoa reappeared in the semen, and the patient’s wife became pregnant. M. De la Peyronie records the still more interesting case of a man, the father of three children, who contracted a gonorrhoea, which he neglected. He ceased to ejacu- late during coitus, the secretion being retained, and flowing away on the subsidence of -the erection, but the free passage of the urine showing that no stricture was present. The man died, and on post-mortem examination a cicatrix was found in the portion of the veru montanum which looked towards the bladder. A cicatricial bridle had changed the direction of the ejaculatory canals, causing their orifices to look backwards, and the semen to be projected towards the bladder instead of forwards into the urethra. Changes iti the prostate, due to gonorrhoeal inflammation, abscess, or pros- tatic calculi, may be an obstacle to the entry of semen into the urethra. The absence of spermatozoa, from cicatrices consequent on the lateral operation of lithotomy, has been noticed by many writers on the subject. Congenital defects of the vasa deferentia, prostate, or vesiculie seminales, may cause the absence of normal semen (azoospermia). Some cases differ from the above, in that the patients have connection without emission or the sensation of emission at the time, but have seminal emissions with the usual sensations during sleep. The act of intercourse may be continued for an indefinite length of time without emission, a state of erection having continued through- out, or having subsided before the withdrawal of the penis. These cases are free from any local lesions, and are due to a fault in the conducting nerves, or in the nerve-centres themselves. Schulz thinks that the centre for erec- tion and emission is the same, and that a more intense excitement is neces- sary to produce an ejaculation than to produce an erection. Temporary or relative aspermatism, a rare condition, is present when a man is unable to emit under certain circumstances and at certain times. Guterbock, recognizing the likeness between this condition and that already mentioned in which a man is impotent only when certain women are concerned (psychical impotence), aptly calls this state psychical aspermatismd Schulz considers that this state may be due to a spasmodic condition of the seminal passages, particularly of the ducts and vesicuhie seminales, whereas Cursclimann favors the idea that it is due to the inhibitory action of the cerebrum over the centre for erection. Stricture of the urethra, or any cause which prevents the egress of the semen, should be removed by suitable treatment, but in many cases little can be done. Cases of absolute congenital aspermatism, occurring in men apparently healthy, are incurable. The cases of so-called psychical aspermatism are to be treated by tonics and change of air, and, on the recommendation of Schulz, the constant current may be cautiously tried. Azoospermia is a condition which has been ably described by M. Gosselin. The subject of this condition is sterile, because, although connection and emission take place as in health, there are no spermatozoa to be detected in the discharge. The spermatozoa are absent because they are not formed by the testicles, or, if formed, are imprisoned in the excretory tubes, and do not reach the urethra. An occlusion taking place on both sides of the epidi- dymis or vas deferens, will prevent the arrival of spermatozoa at the vesicuke seminales and their admixture with the secretion of the vesiculpe, which alone is discharged into the urethra; the occlusion is on the distal side of the com- mon ejaculatory duct, which, under these circumstances-, only conveys the secretion of the vesiculie seminales. When the obstruction is of the common ejaculatory ducts, or of any part of the urethra, the condition of aspermatism is induced, as has alread\’ been described. Inflammation, most commonlv due to gonorrhoea, may affect the vas deferens, or the epididymis, giving . _ 1 Canstatt's Jahresbericht. vol. vi.—42