APPENDIX. 1106 probably too large an allowance for American cities, in some of which 2 per 1000 would be ample for the total of strictly general hospitals for the poor, including almshouse hospitals, and excluding those for special classes of cases and for the insane. It is enough to say that the natural growth of any important hospital should be provided for in its foundation. There should, be extra ground- space, and its administrative parts should be planned for the probable enlargement of the work. The cardinal principle should be maintained, that there must be simplicity of construction, and wards of only one or two stories; and to build only as far as the money will go, rather than to gain capacity by increasing the height of the buildings. The arrangement of the ward-units of construction may now be considered in relation to each other, and to the other buildings; and it will be assumed that there is to be a capacity of 200 or 400 beds. In every hospital there should be a separate one-story ward for the more serious surgical cases, for each sex. Surgical patients without open wounds or febrile conditions, as a general rule, may be placed in two-story pavilions, but the distribution of some of these cases among the more serious ones lessens the aggregation of the latter. Children’s wards may be in such a two-story building. There should be a completely detached surgical isolating ward, even if it must be a small one, for each sex. An important adjunct of the surgical service is an operating theatre, hav- ing a good skylight with a northern aspect, and the size of the room will be determined by the number of students in attendance. Convenient rooms should be provided for the use of patients before and after operations, a room for ad- ministering anaesthetics, a splint-room, etc. The accident or receiving room should be of good size and well lighted, and may conveniently be in the same building. There should be a surgical office or consulting-room, and, as the centre of the whole surgical service may properly be here, a room also for house pupils and their work, and one for the supervising ward-master of the service. The out-patient department may be included in a separate section, and with a different entrance, in the same building; but it is better to have it by itself, and it should certainly be kept out of the administration-building. Economy of service is gained, besides other advantages, by having only one public entrance to the hospital grounds, and one porter’s office. This should be in the same building as the out-patient department, and the people who visit the latter should be limited to this building, in which also those who come on visiting days to see their friends in the wards may be gathered at appointed hours, and sent to different parts of the hospital without intruding upon the pre- cincts of the administrative offices. The medical department should have a one-story building for a fever ward for each sex, and one or more small, detached, isolating wards for infectious diseases; but a larger proportion of medical than ot surgical cases of certain kinds can be put in two-story buildings. In a large hospital, it will be con- venient to establish a central arrangement of two or three small offices, and a receiving and examining room for the staff and the supervisor of the medical service. All new patients may be received here by a separate entrance, as in the surgical department. In connection with these offices there may be a laboratory for chemical examinations, use of microscope, etc. It is a very convenient arrangement to have these surgical and medical centres close to the administration building, but separate from it, with speaking-tube or telephone connections ; and these two centres may be in buildings the upper two stories of which may be used for paying patients, or which may contain small wards for special classes of cases, as in the Boston City Hospital.