INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS OF THE BONES. . 892 fracture of the femur, and a fracture of the lower third of the tibia, took place. The former was followed by inward displacement of the lower frag- ment, the latter by displacement of the lower fragment backward. I have also seen a case of spontaneous fracture following osteitis in the humerus, another in the first phalanx of the thumb, etc. These fractures occur in two conditions, which make a great difference in the prognosis. Either they take place in a bone simply rarefied and no longer suppurating, or they occur at a centre of suppuration or in a necrosed portion. In the latter case the rupture may occur at the edge of the seques- trum ; then it is only a sudden and speedy separation of the necrosed part, or else it involves only the portion of bone which is still living, the sequestrum being already isolated from it. The coincidence of a centre of suppuration, with or without necrosis, aggravates the prognosis. I lost some time ago, from pyaemia, two patients affected with old osteitis, who had broken the femur under these circumstances. Apart from this risk, these fractures may be very hard to reduce, if time has been allowed for displacement to occur. The resistance of the chroni- cally inflamed tissues prevents exact coaptation, and favors the production of deformity. Necrosis of Bones. Necrosis is not a disease, it is the termination or sequel of a disease. It is, as its name indicates, the death of the bone. A necrosed bone becomes a foreign body which the processes of elimination constantly tend to isolate from the living part. The isolated portion is called a sequestrum, but the word sequestrum is not synonymous with necrosis. The word sequestrum means a separated part. Thus, among the pieces of hone found to be movable in a patch of osteo-myelitis, some are wholly deprived of life and constitute the sequestra of necrosis, while others are still traversed by vessels and united with the neighboring tissues by vascular granulations; these are the sequestra of osteitis or of caries, that is to say, parts still living, isolated from the rest of the bone by peripheral medullization. Among the sequestra of necrosis two varieties must be distinguished: primary sequestra, and consecutive or secondary sequestra. The first are the result of rapid death of a healthy bone, deprived of its vessels by any cause. The bone is dead without having been diseased, or at least without having had time to be altered by disease. It has, then, the structure, the consistence, and the hardness of healthy bone. The secondary or consecutive sequestra result from the death of a portion of bone already modified in structure by disease. They present the anatomical characteristics of the osteitis which has preceded and led to their death. They are usually rarefied, sometimes eburnated. Nothing is more variable than the shape of sequestra. They correspond with the vascular territories, that is to say, with the distribution of the nutrient vessels of the bones. Being the immediate result of obliteration of these vessels, they represent the extent and shape of the obliterated vascular territory. Bone-tissue is the more predisposed to necrosis the more it is compact, that is to say, the fewer vessels it contains, and the greater difficulty there is in establishing the collateral circulation. The vessels contained in the canals of Havers cannot undergo the processes of acute inflammation without being oxposed to obliteration, and, as others cannot be established alongside, of them, their obliteration is followed by death of the part which they nourish. In the spongy tissue the re-establishment of the circulation is easier, on