CONDITIONS WHICH MAY COMPLICATE DISEASES OF THE URETHRA. 521 and of the muscles have been observed, may be thus arranged, following the order of frequency: leg, thigh, buttock, hypogastrium, forearm, precordial region; there is on record only one case of abscess of the iliac fossa, and likewise only one of retro-pharyngeal abscess. As to joint-suppuration, it has been seen in the knee, in the shoulder, in the ankle. These cases are much more rare than those of phlegmon of the soft parts. Finally, warotiditis has been sometimes observed, coming on in the last period of urinary fever, and having the same characteristics and the same gravity as in other infec- tious diseases in which it is customary to meet with it. Duration and Termination of Acute Urinary Fever.—The frank attack, which constitutes the first type of the acute form, may last from one to three days ; its ordinary duration is at least twenty-four hours. Pernicious attacks may be very quickly fatal, and carry off the patient in twenty-four hours. It is much harder to fix an exact limit to the duration of the continuous- remittent form; it varies between these two extremes, five and twenty days. Death, which is exceptional in the first type and frequent in the second (pernicious attacks), is quite frequent also in the continuous-remittent type. Most of the patients who succumb die with an elevated temperature; in others, there is seen at the moment of death a temperature below 37° C. (98.6° F.). A happy termination is announced by a rapid defervescence in frank attacks ; by a slow defervescence, which becomes progressively more marked for several days, in the continuous-remittent fever. Chronic Form of Urinary Fever.—The chronic form is characterized by moderate, continuous fever, the tracing of which shows very slight oscilla- tions, but which is susceptible, either spontaneously or under the influence of surgical interference, of being replaced by one or a number of grave ex- acerbations. This form of urinary fever may succeed the continuous-remit- tent type of the acute form, the grave exacerbations of which disappear for a time, leaving in their place a continuous and not very intense febrile con- dition ; or it may be established from the first, in the latter case its beginning often passing unobserved until the day when a grave exacerbation occurs. The febrile state is usually very slight in the chronic form of urinary fever, the predominant and constant symptoms of which are digestive disturbances, and a peculiar alteration of the general condition. The appetite is much diminished, digestion is laborious, the tongue is foul and covered with a thick coat, the mouth is sticky and dry. At the same time the patient grows thin, and ac- quires a yellowish, cachectic tinge, but not icteric. Upon the foundation of this slightly febrile and principally gastric condition, there break out, at irregular intervals, more or less pronounced exacerbations, after which the fever resumes its continuous type, and so on to the recovery or death of the patient. Although in this slow form of urinary poisoning suppuration in the limbs and in the joints is very rarely seen, nevertheless it is more grave than the acute form. Death usually takes place by a return to the acute state, or more rarely by progressive wasting and cachexia, in which case the patient succumbs with a reduced temperature. Etiology of Urinary Fever.—Urinary fever presents itself in two conditions: sometimes it appears spontaneously; sometimes it follows an operation or the simple use of a sound. It is hardly ever seen in frankly acute diseases of the urinary passages. These diseases (prostatitis, urethritis, and even cystitis) may indeed be accompanied by a very pronounced febrile state, but that is a common inflammatory fever, which it is important not to confound with urinary fever; the flrst has a regular course, in which defervescence rapidly follows surgical intervention; the second is irregular, with exacer- bations. The distinction is usually easy ; it may be made even when the two febrile states coincide—when, for example, a urinary abscess or urinary