671 MODES OF EXPLORATION. geon to say whether the tumors which are at the side of the uterus and dis- place it belong to that part itself or to neighboring organs. Thus two fingers of one hand are passed very high in the rectum, and the thumb is placed in the vagina, while the other hand is applied to the abdominal wall; one sound is introduced into the womb and another into the bladder, one of them being held by an aid, while the surgeon explores with the other, using each succes- sively and alternately ; this quadruple or quintuple examination may make an otherwise obscure case clear. Visual Examination.—This may be immediate or mediate, that is, made by direct inspection, or through a speculum. In the direct examination the surgeon notes the general appearance of the patient, her form, movements, and facial expression, and the presence or absence of pigmentation upon the fore- head and cheeks; the condition of the mammary glands as to size, secretion, enlargement of the glands of Montgomery, and formation of primary and secondary areolse; the state of the abdominal wall, enlargement of veins, linece albicantes, pigment deposit over the median line, irregularity or symmetry of form, increase of prominence, sinking or protrusion of the umbilicus, and existence of foetal movements. Attention, however, will be directed more especially to the external genital organs and adjacent parts. For this exami- nation the patient should occupy the dorsal position, with the lower limbs strongly fiexed upon the trunk, and the thighs separated. The condition of the groins is observed as to whether enlarged lymphatics, or cicatrices, are present; that of the anus, as to prolapsus, external hemorrhoids, or condylo- mata; that of the perineum and mons veneris ; that of the labia, if oedematous, varicose, or inflamed, or the seat of tumors. When the labia are separated by two fingers, the vestibule, with the orifice of the urethra, which may be the seat of the so-called sensitive tumor of the meatus, and the clitoris, will he exposed, and so too the navicular fossa, and the hymen or the myrtiform earuncles. Eversion of a part of the vagina may be effected, as first suggested by Dr. H. R. Storer, by two fingers pressing through the rectum upon the recto-vaginal wall; but this is rarely necessary, and it is usually quite painful. Examination with the Speculum.—An examination of the deeper part of the vagina, and of the uterine neck, if in normal position, can be made only with instruments known as uterine specula. While very many different specula have been invented, only three varieties will be here mentioned, viz., the tubular or cylindrical, the bivalve, and the univalve. The tubular speculum most frequently used is known as Fergusson’s. This instrument is a glass tube, silvered and covered with rubber varnish. The instrument is usually narrower at the internal end, and obliquely cut, while the external part is expanded somewhat like the mouth of a trumpet— an unnecessary form, which renders it less portable and more liable to be broken ; a cylinder of uniform diameter is preferable. Besides, the reflection from its mirror-like construction sometimes confuses—makes “ dark with excess of light”—and in this regard the opaque glass speculum of Mayor has a decided advantage. In addition to glass tubular specula, there are others made of wood, of ivory, of hard rubber, of metal, and recently of celluloid. The tubular speculum is very little used in this country for diagnostic purposes, for it often conceals more than it reveals ; it has the advantage that one can employ it without an assistant. A previous digital examination having made known the capacity of the vagina, an instrument of suitable size is selected, and, after being warmed and oiled, is introduced by first separat- ing the labia and directing the instrument in the vulvar axis, the patient occupying the lithotomy position. After the instrument has entered the