481 TRAUMATIC LESIONS OE THE URETHRA. or cutting instruments ; and (2), contusions and contused wounds, which are oftener designated by the name of ruptures or lacerations of the urethra, when they are not accompanied by solution of continuity of the peri-urethral soft parts. I. Wounds of the Urethra.—On account of its situation, the urethra escapes rather easily the action of puncturing or cutting instruments. Pro- tected at the back by the whole thickness of the perineum and by the pubes, it is seen to be imbedded in front in the trough presented by the cavernous bodies at their lower part; whence it results that, even if the urethra alone could be wounded in its perineal portion, this could happen only very rarely in its free portion, without the existence of a concomitant wound of the cavernous bodies. Punctures of the urethra are without consequence. They are usually accompanied by a slight flow of blood from the meatus, or by an ecchymosis situated at the point where the instrument has penetrated, and they heal spontaneously at the end of a few days. Wounds made with cutting instruments are more serious, and their gravity varies with their extent and seat. Those of the 'perineal portion of the urethra are extremely rare, are characterized by a more or less abundant escape of urine, and heal spontaneously with extreme rapidity—of which an idea may be formed by observing the way in which wounds resulting from perineal lithotomy behave. In order, however, to prevent a possible infiltration of urine in cases of this sort, a catheter should be introduced and retained, and the wound should not be closed with points of suture, but merely covered with a simple dressing. Wounds of the pendulous portion of the urethra are accompanied, however small they may be, by a solution of continuity of the cavernous bodies, and consequently by an abundant but not serious hemorrhage, which stops spontaneously, or upon light compression. The treatment consists in the intro- duction aiid retention of a catheter, preferably a cylindrical one if the urethra has not been divided through its whole circumference. If, on the contrary, the extent of the wound leads to the fear that a complete division of the canal has taken place, it is preferable, because of the retraction of the two edges, to employ a catheter with a conical or olivary end, the extremity of which, at once delicate and blunt, meets with less obstruction. When the catheter is once in place, the wound- should be sutured either with close inter- rupted sutures, or, better, with the continuous suture. At the end of the second or third day the catheter must be removed, for fear that it may give rise to suppuration, which would prevent immediate union. If it should prove impossible to pass the catheter through the posterior edge of the cut, it might be well, as Voillemier has recommended and as Reybard has success- fully practised, to suture the wound notwithstanding, but then to watch the micturition with the greatest care, removing the sutures at the first sign of infiltration. In case the cavernous bodies have been divided through the greater part of their extent, the conduct of the surgeon should be the same. It should be remembered, moreover, that every transverse wound of the urethra, even the simplest, inevitably leaves behind a cicatricial stricture, often most rebellious to treatment. II. Contused Wounds; Ruptures and Lacerations.—There are two varie- ties of contused wound of the urethra. In the first, which I shall simply mention, and the type of which is seen in gunshot wounds, the solution of con- tinuity involves not only the urethra but also the soft parts which cover it. In the second, to which alone the name of rupture or laceration is applicable,