MORBID GROWTHS OF THE (ESOPHAGUS. actual subjects of tuberculosis, it is met with sufficiently often in the children of tuberculous subjects to suggest the idea of some hereditary predisposition induced by that diathesis. From a comparison of several series of records, and of many individual reports, comprising a total of more than two hundred cases, it appears that the disease is rare before the thirteenth year of life. Few cases occur before the age of thirty-five, most of them between the ages of forty and seventy. Epithelioma, or squamous-celled carcinoma, seems to be the only variety likely to appear before the forty-fifth year. The greatest pro- clivity seems to be manifested between the ages of fifty and sixty. The average age at which women are attacked is about ten years earlier than the average age in men, say forty-four and fifty-four respectively. It occurs in advanced old age, cases having occurred in subjects as old as eighty-four1 and eighty-six.2 It is frequently admitted that abuse of alcoholic beverages may predispose to the disease, but this point is a matter of uncertainty. Local inflammations, and injuries by pressure or by compression, are regarded as exciting causes. Symptoms.—These may be summed up as progressive dysphagia—first with solids and then with fluids likewise, sometimes becoming more and more painful and sometimes painless—regurgitation, vomiting, loss of appetite, dyspnoea, dysphonia, cough, pyrexia, and marasmus; and subsequently such symptoms as are produced by extension of the disease in adjacent organs and structures, and by perforation into them. Lancinating pains occur in some instances. After ulceration has taken place, enlarging somewhat the passage for food, the dysphagia undergoes proportionate temporary amelioration. Diagnosis.—The presence of several or all of the symptoms enumerated, their steady and rapid exacerbation, the age of the patient, and the recogni- tion of carcinomatous tissue in the purulent and sanguinolent matters vomited, furnish the chief grounds for diagnosis. The existence of obstruc- tion by tumor or by stricture, is determined in the usual manner by explora- tion with the sound, and by auscultation of the bolus. Characteristic shuttle- like pains are not common, and cachexia fails to be produced in many cases of rapid progress. Their absence therefore does not invalidate the diagnosis. In the earlier stages, carcinoma is liable to be mistaken for chronic oesopha- gitis, the presence of a cicatricial stricture or of a diverticulum, and involu- tion from compression on the exterior. Prognosis.—The prognosis is unfavorable, the disease being inevitably fatal at a period varying from three months to two years, or a little more. Death may even take place as early as seven or five weeks3 after the mani- festation of dysphagia.4 More than one-half the cases seem to terminate fatally within six months, and five-sixths within twelve months. Life is longest preserved in cases of small spheroidal-celled carcinoma (scirrhus), instances being on record of its preservation for more than two years, and exceptionally beyond three. While some cases are fatal by inanition, others terminate before this condition is reached, whether by pneumonia, gangrene, or other disease of the lung, or by suffocation, pericarditis, hemorrhage, or disease of the spinal cord, according to the direction and result of the con- secutive infiltration. The position of the disease and the liability to occlu- sion of the oesophagus and to the consecutive diseases and conditions just mentioned, influence the prognosis as to the probable length of life and the probable mode of its termination. Treatment.—This is palliative, and to be conducted on general principles. Arsenic may be employed medicinally with some hope of retarding the 1 Butlin’s list. 3 Mackenzie, op. cit., vol. ii. p. 92. 2 Behier’s list. Habershon.