THE CAESAREAN SECTION AND ITS SUBSTITUTES. 772 removed, it was brought out of the abdomen and held vertically ; a wire loop of the constrictor of Cintrat was placed around it at a point opposite the internal os uteri, and then tightened by the screw until all circulation in the bloodvessels was arrested. The uterus was then cut away, two centimetres above the wire-loop ; the abdominal cavity was cleansed with carbolized sponges, and a 5-millimetre drainage-tube was passed through the abdominal wound and the Douglas pouch, and out by the vagina. The abdomen was sutured with silver wire; the stump was touched with perchloride of iron, and tixed in the lower angle of the wound. The parts were then dressed with simple applications. The constrictor was removed on the fifth day, and the woman was well in forty days; her child was also saved. Numerous changes have been made by different operators, some simple and valuable, others vital, and a few for the worse. Some of the more simple have been the securing of the stump by transfixing pins; the use of Ivoeberle’s or of Maisonneuve’s constrictor; of Spencer Wells’s clamp; of Billroth’s or Chassaignac’s ecraseur; and of spray and Listerian treatment. To check the loss of blood in the operation, the cervix has been surrounded with elastic tubing after the mode of Esmarch, or it has been compressed simply by the hand. To avoid the placenta, the uterus has been incised transversely above the internal os, and then torn across until the foetal head could pass. The more vital changes have been made by Muller, of Bern, in Switzerland, and by Veit, of Bonn, in Germany. Muller’s Modification.—This method was introduced by Prof. Muller, on Feb. 4, 1878, as an improvement upon the eight Porro operations which had preceded his own. He operated upon a inalacosteon multipara of 37, who had been 3| days in labor, with a pulse of 136, and whose foetus was dead and putrid. Notwithstanding her unfavorable condition, her abdomen was opened by a long incision, and the entire uterus turned out before it was incised. The abdomen being protected against the admission of fluid, the uterus was first constricted, and then opened and evacuated, after which the steps of the operation were the same as in the original plan. The object of removing the uterus from the abdominal cavity before evacuating it, was to avoid the danger of hemorrhage, and the possibility of its putrid contents escaping into this cavity among the intestines. The effect of removing these septic matters was shown by a fall of the pulse to 96 after the operation, and the next day to 84, while the temperature also fell from 102° to 97° Fahr. As this patient ultimately recovered after having had on the eleventh and twelfth days a pulse of 140 and 150 respectively, and in spite of the appear- ance of some gangrenous spots about the abdominal wound, the plan of opening the uterus without the abdomen was adopted by others as an improve- ment over the original plan of Porro; and the next to act upon it was Prof. Chiara, of the Santa Caterina Hospital of Milan. His was a case of induced labor in a rachitic dwarf, 4 feet 3J inches high and 23 years old, and the ope- ration was performed after labor had advanced 12 hours. The child was saved, but the woman died of diffuse septic peritonitis on the fourth day. This operation was the thirteenth in order of time—the second by Prof. Chiara— and took place on May 22, 1878. The result of this trial caused the staff of the hospital to adhere to the original method, and their success since has been very remarkable, as the 12 following operations have saved 11 women and 12 children. Better results have followed the Muller method in other hands, and it now ranks high, especially in cases where the placenta is attached to the anterior wall of the uterus, or where the foetus is putrid after a long labor. As the cervix is constricted before the foetus is delivered, haste is requisite in the extraction, as the foetus will be in a state of asphyxia from arrested supply