INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE URETHRA. 426 which are wrapped a large number of layers of a mixture of linseed oil and liquefied caoutchouc. These catheters are straight or curved (Fig. 1312), and Fig. 1312. among the latter the curves vary. To this class belong also the elbowed and double-elbowed catheters. (Fig. 1313.) In addition to cylindrical catheters, catheters with conical or olivary extremities are used in certain cases. Finally, for several years past catheters Fig. 1313. ' Elbowed catheters. without the silk web, and made entirely of vulcanized caoutchouc, have been advantageously employed for evacuatory catheterization. On account of their extreme flexibility, these catheters run no risk of wounding the walls of the canal during their introduction, and they are very well borne by patients when allowed to remain. (Fig. 1314.) I will describe briefly the method of evacuatory catheterization with metal- lic and with flexible catheters. Evacuatory Catheterization with 3Ietallic Catheters.—Here we find again the three stages spoken of in connection with exploratory sounding. First stage: The patient lying down, as has been already described, the surgeon places himself at the left hand of the bed, and, holding the penis of the patient with the left hand and the catheter with his right, according to the rules already given, he brings the instrument in front of the abdomen, parallel to the linea alba, insinuates its extremity into the meatus urinarius, and makes it glide along the urethra, while at the same time he presses the penis gently upon the catheter. (Fig. 1315.) When the beak ot the instru- ment arrives below the pubis, it is stopped by the neck ot the bulb. The second stage then begins, and, in order that the instrument shall continue its course, it is necessary for it to be given a movement of rocking forward, during which its beak engages in the membranous portion of the urethra and traverses its whole length. The surgeon’s part consists in following, so to speak, this change of direction, by gradually lowering the handle of the catheter between