THE PORRO-CiESAREAN SECTION—LAPARO-HYSTERO-OOPIIORECTOMY. 773 of oxygenated maternal blood, and may be lost, as happened once in Vienna. There are many cases in which the Muller method cannot be carried out, and there are no less than six embraced in I)r. Clement Godson’s tabular records, in which the uterus could not be turned out after the long incision had been made, and in which the operators were obliged to evacuate it in situ ; four of the women recovered. As far as ascertained, up to March 20,1885, there have been 42 operations by the Muller method, saving 21 women and 31 children, and by the Porro operation, unmodified, 109, saving 46 women and 85 chil- dren. Veit’s Modification.—This experiment originated with Prof. Gustav Veit, of Bonn, Germany, and the initial operation was performed by him on March 21,1880. The change consists in ligating and dropping in the stump, treating it as the pedicle in ovariotomy, or as the amputated cervix in hyste- rectomy, in non-gravid cases. Three other operators, the first in New York City, followed Prof. Veit, at intervals of 18, 25, and 33 days, and all four of the women were lost. The sixth case (the second of Veit); the twelfth, under oare of Dr. Kabierski, -Jr., of Breslau; the thirteenth, under care of Prof. August Martin, of Berlin ; and the fourteenth, under care of Prof. Fritsch, of Breslau, ended in recovery. Six of the fourteen wTere originally Muller modifications, and three of the four saved were of this type. A mortality of 71 j per cent, is not adapted to recommend this manner of completing the operation, although in theory it has much to make its success desirable, as it would entirely obviate the very objectionable traction made upon the abdominal cicatrix, and secure an earlier union of the wound. The patient of Prof. Fritsch, operated upon in November, 1884, was well enough to leave the hospital on the fifteenth day. In the operations in which the stump has been dropped in, it has been treated in a variety of ways to secure it against hemorrhage, and to prevent its giving rise to septic poisoning. It has been ligated with silk in several forms, and with silver wire ; it has been stitched with a cobbler’s suture; and the peritoneum lias been closely sewed over the end of the stump. The causes of death show the seat of danger to lie generally in the abdominal cavity. Of the 10 fatal cases, death was attributed to peritonitis in 3; to septic peritonitis in 2; to septicaemia in 1; to cardiac embolism following phlegmasia dolens in 1; to hemorrhage and -carbolic acid poisoning in 1; to “anaemia” in l,1 and to shock and exhaustion in 1. As this vital change in the operations of Porro and Muller has largely increased their proportionate mortality, I shall take the liberty of excluding the 14 operations in calculating the risk of the rorro-Caesarean section, and also the 3 additional cases in which the women who were moribund were opened to save the foetus. The exclusion of these 17 cases will reduce the Porro and Porro-Midler list of cases operated upon, after the foetus had reached u viable age, to 148. Of this number, 65, or a fraction below 44 per cent., ended in recovery. Of the 148, 90 were favorable for the operation and 58 unfavorable. Of the 90, 53 were saved, and of the 58, only 13. Nine Austrian operators saved 20 out of 34 women, or a fraction below 59 per cent.; and five Italian operators, in the Maternity of Milan, saved 11 women out of 14 (or 86f- per cent.), and all of the children. Five Austrian operators saved, in the Krankenhaus of Vienna, 13 out of 26 women, and 23 children. Other Minor Changes.—Prof. Litzmann, of Kiel, Germany, after turning out the uterus intact, in an operation performed on June 14,1878, surrounded 1 Said to have been secondary hemorrhage.