PROGNOSIS OF INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTION. 59 tympanites. If the stricture involve the rectum or even the sigmoid flexure, it can usually be detected by digital or manual exploration. Chronic invagination is most common in men, and in early adult life ; it begins abruptly, and afterwards assumes a chronic character—this is a very significant circumstance—and presents many of the symptoms of acute invagination, only that they are less severe, and that the vital depression of that condition is wanting. The most distinctive symptoms, beside the mode of invasion, are the appearance of the characteristic tumor, and the discharge of blood from the rectum. Diagnosis as Regards the Seat of Obstruction.—In acute obstruction the part affected is usually the small intestine, and in chronic obstruction the large bowel. When stercoraceous vomiting occurs as an early symptom, the seat of obstruction is probably in the lower part of the small intestine ; for, on the one hand, this symptom is not observed when the obstruction is in the upper part of the small bowel, and, on the other hand, in obstruction of the colon it occurs at a comparatively late period. The amount of urine secreted is probably not as important a diagnostic symptom as has been usually supposed, a diminished flow being rather significant of the acuteness than of the high seat of the obstruction ; in chronic cases, however, anuria indicates obstruc- tion comparatively near the pylorus. The use of the long tube for diagnostic purposes is deceptive, the sigmoid flexure being often so movable that the end of the tube, while still in that segment of intestine, may reach the umbilicus, and may then he supposed to be in the transverse colon. A cer- tain amount of information may be gained by observing the quantity of water that can be injected into the lower bowel without escaping by the side of the injecting instrument; but even this test is not certain, for, on the one hand, the capacity of the rectum alone varies very much in different individuals, and, on-the other hand, it would appear that an occluded bowel maybe sometimes permeable by fluids injected from below, while resisting any passage of fecal matter from above. Auscultation of the colon and cce.cumy while fluid is being injected into the rectum, is considered by Mr. Treves to be of great value ; if the fluid can be distinctly heard to enter the caecum, it gives evidence of course that the obstruction is not in the large intestine. Prognosis of Intestinal Obstruction. Prognosis of Acute Obstruction.—Acute obstruction of the bowel is always an affection replete with danger to the patient, and a cause of the gravest auxiety to the surgeon. By far the most favorable cases are those of enteritis, in which, indeed, under judicious treatment, a cure can usually be obtained. In acute intussusception there is at least a chance of spontaneous recovery, either by the bowel becoming disinvaginated under the influence of opium and enemata, or by sloughing and separation of the intussusceptum * the latter occurrence offers the most hope, as may be seen from Leichtenstern’s statistics, which show that 557 terminated cases gave in all 151 recoveries (27 per cent.) and 406 deaths (73 per cent.), but that whereas 149 cases in which sloughing occurred gave 88 recoveries (59 per cent.) and only 61 deaths (41 per cent.), 408 cases in which sloughing did not occur gave but 6S recoveries (15 per cent.) and no less than 345 deaths (85 per cent.). But in the other forms of acute obstruction—internal strangulation (which, next to intussusception, is much the most common variety, constituting, according to Leichtenstern’s figures, more than one-fourth of the whole), acute volvulus,