OVARIAN AND UTERINE TUMORS. 790 Morbid Anatomy.-—The simplest and most elementary form of ovarian cyst is dropsy of the Graafian follicle, hydrops folliculi. This is usually small in size, and found only in autopsies; its size varies from that of a pea or a cherry to that of the foetal head, and in very rare cases its growth distends the abdominal cavity. These cysts are often congenital, and have been found at all ages after birth. At first their structure is analogous to that of the Graafian follicle—an external fibrous coat derived from the ovarain stroma, and a thinner internal coat lined with epithelium, which corresponds to the tunica propria of the Graafian follicle. This wall varies greatly in thickness in different parts of the cyst; at some points extremely thin, at others dense and opaque. The contents of these cysts are usually a clear, limpid serum, with an ovum sometimes floating or attached at some point of the epithelial lining, which is smooth and without projecting septa. This condition was described thirty years ago by Rokitansky, and more lately by Ritchie in specimens removed by Spencer Wells, by Webb, and by others. Schroeder regards these formations as so-called “retention-cysts,” and ascribes their origin “ to the causes which hinder the rupture of the follicle” and the escape of the ovum. Hypersemia, congestion, or inflammation of the follicular coats, is the usual agency in this case, and its influence may be traced in the induration and thickening of the cyst-walls. But in congenital cases, and in infancy, the disease must be due to a hyper-secretion of the fluid of the follicle, for no liquor folliculi has been found within the Graafian vesicle at this time of life. In many cases, Schroeder thinks that the follicle may be obliterated as the result of previous inflammatory processes, while the secretion remains, and thus leads to the formation of a cyst. Though usually difficult of demonstration, from the delicate nature of the tissues involved, he instances one case in which Chrobak found a retention-cyst of the follicle after a pre-existing peritonitis. Ordinary ovarian cysts and cystomata are, however, much more complex in their histology and in their mode of origin. In an able and elaborate memoir, contributed to the Royal Medical and Chirurgical Society of London, in 1864, Dr. Wilson Fox endeavored to show that these growths might originate in the Graafian follicle. But this view has of late years been systematically opposed, and most pathologists now followT the lead of Waldeyer,1 who regards all these growths as epithelial tumors, and traces their origin to the glandular paren- chyma of the ovary. This is formed by the in-growth into the connective- tissue stroma of the epithelium which lines the mucous membrane covering the ovary, thus constituting the glandular follicles. These latter are really the preliminary structure from which are developed both Graafian follicles and all cystoid growths of the ovary. This change may occur at any period of life, many cases being recorded in infancy, and a few, as by Slavjansky2 and Roster,3 in women over thirty years of age. The formation of the cystoma from the glandular follicles is as follows: the epithelial cells “ lying nearest the centre become softened, liquefy, and form the contents of the cysts, while from the walls of the small cyst, formed in this way, arise other glandular pouches. According to this simple plan are developed all the complicated forms of the cystic tumor of the ovary. The original cyst consists of a membrane—which is really nothing more than the condensed ovarian stroma—of epithelium lining the interior of the cysts (originally the epithelium of the glandular pouches), and of fluid contents which are partly a simple transudation from the blood, and partly metamor- phosed epithelial protoplasm” (Schroeder).4 1 Archiv f. Gyn., Band i., Heft 2, S. 252. a Annates de Gynecol., Fev. 1874, p. 126. 3 Virchow u. Hirsch’s Jahresbericht, Bd. i., S. 52. 1872. 4 See, also, Doran’s “Clinical and Pathological Observations on Tumors of the Ovary” (Lon- don, 1884), where a vast amount of exact information on this subject will be found.