INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS OF THE BONES. 884 part of the bone which is least active in growth, if the region of election for growth is by its situation less exposed to the influence of those causes. The lower end of the femur is the seat of osteitis much oftener than the upper end ; this corresponds with the law of growth. But in the tibia and flbula the case is different; the figures are about equal (40 to 42) in the tibia, with a slight advantage in favor of the lower end. It is true that growth, although more marked at the upper end, probably does not much exceed, in man, that which takes places at the lower end. In the fibula the exception is more striking, for the lower end was much oftener the seat of osteitis in the series of cases which I have examined. In the upper limb more numerous exceptions are found. In the humerus the upper extremity was attacked 13 times, while the lower extremity is noted 12 times. This is very little more at the upper extremity; and yet, according to my calculations, which, it is true, are only approximative in regard to man, growth from above is four times greater than growth from below; but the fact that the elbow is more exposed to blows and to cold, changes this relation by increasing the importance of the occasional and determining causes. The radius and ulna, which are much more frequently attacked at their lower end, show better the difference which might a priori be expected on account of the marked predominance of growth at the lower extremity. Spontaneous osteitis is much more frequent in cold and wet countries. It is hard to say in what proportions; for hospitals, where a large number of these cases are seen, receive them from all quarters, and statistics permit only approximative calculations. At any rate, this affection is more common in the north than in the south. By analyzing 305 reports of cases of osteitis collected in my service at the Hotel-Dieu, M. Mondan, Chief of the Clinique, obtained the following par- ticulars in regard to the age of patients suffering from osteitis:— The disease began: Under 10 years . 37 times Between 10 and 20 years . 166 l C “ 20 and 30 years . 51 it “ 30 and 40 years . 16 it “ 40 and 50 years . 10 it Above 50 years . ... 7 it Age not mentioned 25 it Total 312 it This table shows the frequency of osteitis between 10 and 20 years, but might lead to error in regard to the number of cases of osteitis below 10 years. I ought to point out that, the proportion changes in hospitals in which patients of all ages are received indiscriminately. At the Hotel-Dieu of Lyons, it is exceptional to receive a patient less than 12 years old; on account of which a large class of patients is omitted from our calculations. Still more does this proportion differ for the early ages in hospitals, in which only children below 15 years are received. Lannelongue gives the following figures:—1 Under the age of 5 years .... 9 cases From 5 to 10 years From 10 to 15 “ 17 41 it From 15 to 20 “ 30 li 1 case 21 years, 1 case 22, 1 not indicated, . 3 a Total ....... 100 it Osteo-myelite pendant la Croissance.