INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE BLADDER AND PROSTATE. 406 far as is known, of any adequate cause. It is certain that many cases, both.' of urinary and seminal incontinence, are benefited by the same remedies. I have frequently found douching the spine before going to bed, with water as hot as could be borne, equally efficacious in both these conditions. Incontinence, when there is no retention, sometimes occurs in the course of prostatic hypertrophy. It is traceable to an alteration in the internal urethral orifice, brought about by the enlarging middle lobe pressing aside the lateral portions of the gland. In such a case, regular catheterization might be enjoined with the hope of effecting some change for the better in the vesical aperture. This condition is comparatively rare. In the last place, it must be remembered that the ability to hold urine may be lost as the result of certain injuries involving the bladder or its neck. In the female, a vesico-vaginal fistula is the commonest illustration of such a condition. Fortunately, it is generally remediable by a plastic operation by means of which the aperture in the bladder is closed. In the same sex, inci- sion or over-dilatation of the urethra, as for the extraction of calculi, is some- times followed by incontinence. In the performance of operations of the kind, it is desirable to avoid incurring the risk of so unfortunate a conse- quence, and hence, if the stone is too large to be removed entire in this way,, it is better to break it up with the lithotrite or to open the bladder in some other position. As indicating the extent to which the female urethra may, with safety, be dilated for the purpose either of exploration or of extracting a stone, the fol- lowing passage from a recent author may be quoted:— Simon, of Heidelberg, has made dilatation of the female urethra a proceeding appli- cable with scientific accuracy. The urethra can be dilated to a diameter of 1.9 to 2 centimetres, or f inch, in women over twenty years of age ; to 1.8 centimetres, or rather more than inch, in those between fifteen and twenty ; and to 1.5 centimetres, or ® inch, in those between five and eleven. Under twenty years of age, these measure- ments may, in case of need, be exceeded by 2 or 3 millimetres. In no case does incontinence of urine result. Simon’s statements have now been verified by general experience. Hence, since the average diameter of a man’s right index finger at its thickest part is about f inch (1.8 cm.), and of his little finger f inch (1.5 cm.), it may be stated that we can safely dilate the adult urethra so as to admit the index finger, and the child’s so as to admit the little finger.1 In some cases of incontinence, after dilatation of the female urethra, the bladder has eventually regained its power, even after the lapse of many months. The late Mr. Callender made an observation of the same purport. In one case which came under my notice, in which incontinence had con- tinued for over a year, the return of power seemed to date its commence- ment from the introduction within the urethra, under ether, of the actual cautery. A sore was formed by the heated wire, and this subsequently cica- trized and contracted. Previously the urethra had been in a patulous condi- tion, which no form of astringent or other application could improve. Incontinence sometimes follows lithotomy in the male. It is probably due either to a too free incision of the prostate, or to some damage occasioned to the neck of the bladder in the extraction of the stone, whereby a large and perhaps irregular contraction is left. A case of this kind has been recorded under the section on wounds of the prostate. It is in their prevention that these forms of incontinence are of chief interest to the practical surgeon.. Where the incontinence is irremediable, it will be necessary for the patient to wear some contrivance by means of which the urine can be collected as it escapes from the urethra. Bags made of India-rubber, which may be con- 1 Ogston, On the Operation for Stone in the Female Bladder. Edin. Med. Jour., July, 18/9.