374 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE BLADDER AND PROSTATE. plained of perineal weight, frequent rather than painful micturition, and great uneasiness referred to the neck of the bladder, which led in each case to its being suggested that the prostate was inflamed. Both patients were gouty ; in one the oedema was attributed to gonorrhoea, in the other to the use of a strong injection. Though in both these patients there were some grounds for believing their prostates to be inflamed, it was determined by careful rectal examination that the vesical pain and irritability were not due to such a cause, but to an extension of the venous thrombosis to the prostatic plexus. Treatment.—At the commencement of an attack of acute prostatitis, noth- ing gives greater relief than the free application of leeches to the perineum. Some practitioners employ ice by the rectum, but, as a rule, warmth, in the form of hot fomentations and poultices applied over this region, is prefera- ble. Purgatives of all kinds are to be avoided, inasmuch as every movement of the parts greatly aggravates the sufferings of the patient. If a distended rectum require evacuation, a copious warm water enema will be found to answer the purpose. In threatened suppuration of the prostate, advantage will be found from injecting hot water into the bladder through a soft rubber catheter. Such a measure diminishes the accumulation of mucus within the prostatic urethra, and thus prevents the formation and collection of matter in the follicles. Opium will be found essential in sustaining the powers of the patient, otherwise soon worn down by the irritation and pain which to some degree are always present. By means of alkalies the urine must be kept almost neutral. The occurrence of suppuration is to be carefully looked for. Experience warrants the conclusion that any formation of matter in the gland which is not appreciable to the finger in the rectum, may with safety be left to evac- uate itself spontaneously, which it will do by the urethra. When fluctuation is detected by rectal examination, a perineal incision becomes imperative. This can be best made in the median line, with a straight, long-bladed finger- knife, the forefinger of the opposite hand being retained within the bowel. Uidess the abscess be opened effectually, matter will most probably find its way into the rectum, and a permanent fistula be the result; or it may bur- row in other directions, in any case with more disastrous results than are likely to follow from perineal evacuation by the surgeon. Rectal puncture has been practised, but is not to be recommended; incision, in the case of an acute abscess, is, as a rule, preferable. If there is one point upon which stress should be laid, as bearing both on the diagnosis and treatment of these cases, it is the importance of a thorough examination of the gland by the rectum. Pain, and the tension of the part, often cause this to be imperfectly conducted, and an error in diagnosis is the result—an error, too, which the use of an anaesthetic would render almost impossible. It must not be forgotten that abscesses, sometimes of very large size, may form within the limits of the prostate without giving rise to those symptoms which they usually provoke. Cases are recorded in which prostatitis has supervened upon attacks of gonorrhoea, and has terminated in suppuration and death, with complete absence of the rigors and other ordinary symptoms of abscess. Chronic Prostatitis.—Cases of chronic inflammation of the prostate are sometimes met with, the gland remaining tender for considerable periods of time after all acute symptoms have passed away. This condition is not unfre- quently complicated with subacute orchitis, the latter being aroused by extra-