CONDITIONS WHICH MAY COMPLICATE DISEASES OF THE URETHRA. 513 any special indication, the surgeon should always begin with either tem- porary or permanent dilatation; then, when the calibre of the urethra is re-established, contact of urine with the fistula is to be prevented either by catheterization, repeated as often as may be necessary, or by more or less prolonged employment of a retained catheter, and by this very simple method a certain number of urethro-perineo-scrotal fistulas can be cured. In regard to the use of the retained catheter after preliminary dilatation of the urethra, I will further insist upon an important therapeutic detail which has also an applicability to other methods of treatment. It often happens that, after having kept a catheter in the bladder for quite a long time without succeeding in obtaining the occlusion of the fistula, if the instrument he removed, healing will take place in a few days. This fact should always be present to the mind of the surgeon, and he should remember that the use of the catheter ought not to be continued indefinitely, and that it may be useful to lay it aside from time to time. But it too often happens that dilatation, followed by the use of the retained catheter, is powerless to cure perineo-scrotal fistula; of the urethra. One may then have recourse to internal urethrotomy, or to external urethrotomy with or without a guide. Without dwelling on the indications proper to these two methods of treatment of stricture of the urethra, I will nevertheless say, that, in the cases now under consideration, external urethrotomy presents in a very large number of instances a manifest superiority, and that sometimes it even constitutes the only operative method. Thus, when perineo-scrotal fistube are accompanied with impassable strictures, external urethrotomy alone is applicable ; it is also best suited for traumatic strictures which, although passable, are very close, very tough, and very little dilatable, and especially when the fistulte are numerous, sinuous, complicated with diverti- cula, and with extensive indurations of the tissues of the perineum and scrotum. As to the therapeutic measures applicable to the tistulse themselves, they consist in the use of injections, cauterizations, and incisions. These different measures, as will be understood, are especially suited to cases in which dila- tation or internal urethrotomy has been practised, for if recourse has been had to external urethrotomy, the free incision of the perineum usually suffices to divide the different tracks or diverticula, and to secure complete cure. Injections introduced either by the urethra, or by the fistulous orifices, and made either with a phenic acid solution or with a weak solution of nitrate of silver or of tincture of iodine, have sometimes contributed to cleanse the fistulous tracks and to bring about their cicatrization; but this is a method generally not very efficacious. It is not the same with regard to more energetic cauterizations, either with the nitrate of silver, or better with the red-hot iron, according to the method recommended by Bonnet, of Lyons. This latter method is, however, associated with that of incisions, formerly much esteemed, and which consists in slitting-up with a bistoury the sinuses and the diverticula to the urethra. Some surgeons have even advised excising the indurated tissues around the fistula;. In our days, thanks to the thermo-cautery, it is easy to combine incision with cauteriza- tion, and in the case of very complicated fistulie this method of treatment is likely to be followed by success, on condition, let it be understood, that the calibre of the urethra has been re-established, either by dilatation or by internal or external urethrotomy, and that a catheter has been left in. As to autoplastic operations, they are very rarely applicable to perineo- scrotal fistulee of the urethra. (3) Urethro-penileFistulce- Etiology.—The majority of the causes which I have already enumerated in speaking of the different varieties of urinary fistula, vol. vi.—33