INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE (ESOPHAGUS. 18 a flexible rod of whalebone or of metal, is the special appliance most apt to be accessible, and is at the same time one of tbe best. Any instrument which is to be used, should be well oiled, introduced carefully, propelled without force, and passed on into the stomach, so as to afford as much evidence as possible that the foreign body lias been pushed out of the oesophagus. It is not always possible to determine that the foreign body has reached the stomach. In case of doubt, the subsidence of characteristic symptoms and their non-recurrence may be regarded as indicating that such has been the case. Force should never be used, lest injury be done to the oesophagus. When resistance is encountered, it is far better to wait awhile, and then to try again. Soft substances undergo further softening during a few hours’ exposure to the secretions of the oesophagus, and then they yield more readily to pressure from above. Attempts should not be made to push irregular bodies, such as fragments of bone and dental plates, down into the stomach. It is only by accident that irreparable injury is not thus inflicted. I have elsewhere cited1 an instance of cesophago-tracheal fistula produced in this manner. In a more recent example of this silly and reprehensible prac- tice, it was possible subsequently to remove the foreign body with forceps ;2 but, as a rule, the offending substance is pushed beyond the reach of instru- ments, and the walls of the oesophagus are lacerated in addition. The pleura has been penetrated in this way, with fatal consequences.3 The aorta has been penetrated in forcibly propelling a plate with a probang, death ensuing speedily by hemorrhage.4 The fact that very irregular bodies, such as large plates for false teeth, sometimes pass safely through the alimentary tract, does not justify the practice of pushing such substances through the oesophagus into the stomach, unless they are wholly in the thoracic portion of the gullet; when in this situation, the procedure in question is the sole means of freeing the tube, the injury to which, by their retention, is more liable to be followed by fatal consequences than the injury done by forcing them onwards. It is the choice of the lesser of two great evils, and gives the patient the best chance of survival. Gastrotomy may become necessary in case the foreign body has reached the stomach.5 In discussing this subject, Billroth6 calls attention to the fact that it may be necessary, as in a case nar- rated, to pass the hand directly backward through the abdominal wound in . order to detect a foreign body in the posterior portion of the stomach, for the organ cannot be drawn completely out of the wound. The special character of the foreign body and its location sometimes spur the ingenuity of the surgeon into devising, for the occasion, special methods of treatment, both manual and instrumental. Thus, a large potato impacted in the cervical portion of the oesophagus lias been broken up by external pressure with the fingers,7 so that its deglutition could be finished. Similar manipulations have sufficed to propel masses of meat downward in one instance, and within grasp of forceps in another ;8 and have partially suc- ceeded even at the hands of the patient.9 The extraction of fish-hooks has been accomplished by sliding a slit bullet10 along the line, to disengage the point of the hook by gravity, and then cover it with the slot; or with a reed attached, so as to protect the mucous membrane from laceration in its with- 1 Op. pit., p. 313. 2 Lyons, Med. Times and Gaz., March 5, 1881, p. 279. s Stromeyer, Handbucli der Cliirurgie, S. 334. Freiburg, 1865 ; Green, Brit. Med. Jour., Dec. 17, 1870, p. 65. 4 Clark, Brit. Med. Jour., March 22, 1884. 5 See Vol. V., page 989, supra. 6 Medical Times and Gazette, April 18, 1885, p. 504. 7 Dupuytren, case cited by Luton (Diet, de Medecine, Art. GSsophage), by Poulet, and by others. 8 Langenbeck, Berlin, klin. Woch., 17 und 24 Dec. 1876. 9 Atherton, Boston Med. and Surg. Journal, 1870; cited by Mackenzie. 10 Baud, Annales de la Soc. d’Anvers, and Rev. Med.-Chir. de Paris, t. iii. p. 44, 1848.