636 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. live. The tumor never affected more than one testis, and was unmixed with other tissues. • Affection of the glands was found in every case in which the abdomen was opened, and was strongly suspected in another patient. In two of the three complete necropsies the lungs and liver were the seat of secondary growths ; and in the remain- ing case these organs were exempt, while the suprarenal capsule was diseased. The common occurrence of secondary deposits in the glands met with in cases of sarcoma is to be specially noted. The longest total duration of the tumor was 42 months, and the shortest 7 months, in cases of carcinoma. In round-celled sarcoma the longest total duration of the tumor was forty-two months, and the shortest two months. In spindle-celled sarcoma the longest total duration was thirty-six months, the shortest seven months. When the spermatic cord is enlarged, and the lumbar glands enlarged and tender, it is undesirable to operate; but if seen early, the tumor should be removed without delay, as the operation of castration is not a dangerous one, and the removal of the gland gives the patient for a season a gleam of hope, while death from internal disease, retarded for a short period, is less painful to the patient and less distressing to his friends than the death to which he would be liable at any time from a bleeding, offensive fungus lnematodes. * Lympiiadenoma Testis, the lymphoid sarcoma of Liicke, was first described by Malassez,1 and afterwards by Monod and Terrillon.2 Tbe swelling is of a medium size, ovoid in shape, regular in outline, and of uniform consist- ence throughout, and it feels elastic when pressed. On section, the surface is homogeneous, without any appearance of softening, affords in scraping a little fluid, and presents the naked-eye appearances of an ordinary sarcoma. The epididymis escapes, but the growth has a tendency to invade both tes- ticles simultaneously. Under the microscope it is seen to be composed of adenoid tissue; tbe cells are round, with a large nucleus furnished with mul- tiple nucleoli, and a scanty protoplasm. The cells, which are small, are well defined, of formal outline, and of uniform size. The tumor is vascularized, not by tbe formation of vascular spaces or fissures between the cells, as in the sarcomata, but by capillary vessels with well-defined walls. When the cells are pencilled out, a fine reticulum, like that peculiar to adenoid tissue, remains. Generalization of the disease may occur at a distance in the -cutaneous and subcutaneous tissues, the health remaining apparently good. The affection is a formidable one, and the growth should be removed as soon as its nature is recognized. Epithelioma, according toNepveu, presents itself in the testicle under two aspects: (1) Pearl-like tumors—cholesteatomata (Muller), epithelial-perlen (Billroth)—which occur almost always in other tumors, such as carcinomata, sarcomata, etc., though one case is recorded where the pearls existed alone; (2) Epithelioma formed of pavement-epithelium cells, originating in the canaliculi and mixed with sarcomatous tissue.3 Excision of the testis is performed in the following manner : The patient, placed on a suitable bed, or on a firm, narrow table, should have the hair shaved from the pubes and scrotum. An anaesthetic having been given, and 1 Bull, de la Socigte Anatomique, 1877. 2 Arch. Gen. de Med., 7e serie, t. xii. 1880. 3 Specimen 2451 A, of the Hunterian Museum, was presented by the late Mr. Partridge, and ■consists of a testicle and its epididymis, the latter being affected with epithelioma. Excision of the Testis.