670 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE FEMALE GENITALS. largecl uterine cavity ; on the other hand, a larger instrument is less liable to be arrested by catching in folds of mucous membrane. The uterine sound is used to learn the permeability of the cervical canal, its direction, length, and size, and the absence of abnormal narrowing at any point, with the length, size, and direction of the uterine cavity; it also detects excessive sensibility, or hypenemia of the lining membrane of the uterus, the presence of local hypertrophies or of new growths, and the mobility of the organ. The sound is usually introduced without the speculum. If there be much vaginal discharge, especially if it be offensive, it should be washed away by an antiseptic injection before using the sound, lest the latter should convey some of it to the uterine cavity, and septicaemia result, an accident which has thus happened. The patient occupying the dorsal position, with her lower limbs more or less flexed upon the trunk, the index finger of one hand is passed into the vagina and placed upon the posterior lip just below the external os uteri, and the beak of the sound, first dipped in an antiseptic solution, or coated with an antiseptic ointment, is thus guided into the cervical canal; if a speculum is used, it is well to withdraw it after the beak of the sound has entered the os uteri. Usually the concave surface of the sound is above at the moment of introduction, but in some cases it is easier to pene- trate the canal by having this concavity below, and, after passing the instru- ment three-fourths of an inch, then giving it a rotation so as to place this surface uppermost. The sound is usually introduced when the patient is lying upon her back, but it may also be used if she be upon one or the other side. The uterine probe is best used when the os is exposed oy means of a Simon’s or Sims’s speculum ; after such exposure a tenaculum is used to catch the cervix, thus steadying the organ and somewhat straightening the cervical canal, and the probe, having been previously given such curve as digital or bimanual examination may have indicated, is then introduced. Accidents resulting from the use of the uterine sound have not been infre- quent. Broca, in 1854, first mentioned a death from this cause, and since then numbers of cases, published and unpublished, have occurred, in which more or less serious consequences have followed the use of this instrument.1 Many instances are recorded in which the sound has penetrated the wall of the uterus, either by perforating it, or by entering a metro-peritoneal fistula; in rare cases the sound has entered one of the oviducts, but of course there must have been unnatural patency of the duct, and, as remarked by Thor- burn, this charitable explanation will rarely suflice. The possible pre- sence of pregnancy, and the existence of acute inflammatory affections of the uterus, are absolute contra-indications to the use of either the sound or probe. The sound is much less frequently used than it formerly was. Hegar and Kaltenbach remark that most of the information sought by the sound, can be equally obtained by other methods ; Scanzoni holds that the expert seldom needs it; Schultze says that he who has acquired a certain dexterity in bimanual exploration, has rarely need of the uterine sound in order to know the situation of the uterus; and Tait thinks that it is an unnecessary instru- ment. Schultze recommends that the use of a sound in the uterus, and also of one in the bladder, should be combined with recto-abdominal examination and with abdominal palpation, in certain cases in which tumors fill the pelvis and the space above, and in which palpation alone does not enable the sur- 1 Chrobak.