1179 HISTORY OF SURGERY. Perhaps this is as good a place as can be found to introduce a few words concerning the surgery of the Asiatics, or more particularly of the ancient Hindoos. It appears evident from the careful investigations of Wilson,1 Hoyle,2 and Wise,3 that a considerable degree of knowledge relating to all branches of the healing art already existed among the Hindoos and other Orientals, long antecedent to the period when it was possible for them to have acquired any learning or skill from the Arabians or from the Greeks. It is very clear, writes Prof. Wilson, that the Charakci and Susruta, the treatises called Nedan, and other pourans, treating of medicine, surgery, the diseases of women, and therapeutics, were translated from the Sanscrit, and studied by the Arabs in the days of Harun and Mansur, either from originals or probably from translations made at a still earlier period into the language of Persia. Prof. Wilson concludes that the astronomy and medicine of the Hindoos was cultivated by the Arabs of the eighth century, previous to their studying the works of the Greeks. The Susruta is an ancient treatise which is almost exclusively devoted to the surgery of the Hindoos. From this we are informed that a knowledge of anatomy was regarded as important to both the physician and the surgeon. It says : “A holy man should dissect, in order that he may know the differ- ent parts of the human body ; and a surgeon and physician should not only know the external appearances but the internal structure of the body, in order to possess an intimate knowledge of the diseases to which it is liable, and to perform surgical operations so as to avoid the vital parts.” It was considered to be an unclean thing to touch a dead body, yet this was no great barrier to the study of anatomy, since Manu, one of the Hindoo sages and a great legis- lator, says: “ One who has touched a corpse is made pure by bathing;” and again: “ Should a Brahmin touch a fresh human bone he is purified by bathing; and if there be not water, by stroking a cow, or by looking at the sun, having sprinkled his mouth duly with water.” Having selected a proper cadaver, the person not having died from poison- ing, protracted disease, or old age— The dejections are to be removed, and the body washed and placed in a framework of wood, properly secured by means of grass, hemp, sugar-cane reeds, corn-straw, pea- stalks, or the like. The body is then to be placed in still water, in a moving stream, where it will not be injured by birds, fish, or animals. It is to remain for seven days and nights in the water, when it will have become putrid. It is then to be removed to a convenient situation, and with a brush, made of reeds, hair, or bamboo-bark, the surface of the body is to be removed so as to exhibit the skin, flesh, etc., which are each in their turn to be observed before being removed. In this manner, the different corporeal parts of the body will be exhibited ; but the life of the body is too ethereal to be distinguished by this process, and its properties must therefore be learned with the assistance of the explanations of holy medical practitioners, and prayers offered up to God, by which, conjoined with the exercise of the reasoning and understanding faculties, conviction will be certainly obtained.4 After such a course of practical anatomy one would hardly expect a very advanced state of surgical science and art. The Hindoo surgeons placed great reliance on the use of the actual and potential cauteries. The former was employed in the fortn of hot sand, 1 See Prof. Wilson’s remarks on the Indian physicians at the court of Bagdad (Journal of the Royal Asiatic Society, vol. vi. p. 105). 2 An essay on the Antiquity of Hindoo Medicine, etc., 8vo. London, 1837. 3 Review of the History of Medicine, 2 vols. 8vo. London, 1867. The above-mentioned works, with Kerr’s little treatise on medicine in China, republished from the N. A. Medico-Chirur- gical Review for March, 1859, furnish very interesting and ample sources of information on the subject of the history of medicine and surgery among the Asiatics, both ancient and modern. 4 Wise, op. cit., vol. i. pp. 131-133.