1121 PREPARATION OF MILITARY SURGEONS FOR FIELD DUTIES. great difficulties and expensive errors that have occurred in the past, to lessen his own personal labors and anxieties, and to secure the proper care and comfort of the sick and wounded committed to his charge. The military surgeon has daily presented to him on a large scale the highest problems of sanitation, of surgery, and of medicine. Observing the action of special causes on the health of large numbers of men subjected to the simul- taneous operation of the same influences, his efforts at prevention or cure, while tested to the utmost, are followed by speedy and easily perceived results, which tend to increase his confidence in the resources of his knowl- edge, and to ennoble and dignify the practice of his profession, as well as to encourage him to further exertions to lessen the distresses and losses of war. The roll of men who have left imperishable names as military surgeons embraces some of the most illustrious of the medical profession in both hemispheres, and the young surgeon may well feel pride in applying the resources of their experience to the relief of men who are fighting for the defence and honor of their country. Discipline.—Every branch of an army must be subject to discipline, wh.cli term embraces the prompt and systematic performance of duty, and implicit and conscientious obedience to orders and instructions. The medical officer should be impressed with the fact that he is bound in honor, by his commission, to obey promptly and in good faith all orders and instructions which he may receive, even if their object is not perceived. Without this prompt obedience, his superiors cannot know of the condition of his command or department, and hence cannot make the necessary provision for them. One of the greatest draw- backs to the efficiency of the medical department of our armies, in the earlier days of the war, was the lack of discipline and military training in its officers. Surgeon Charles Tripler, then Medical Director of the Army of the Potomac, says, “ In so vast an establishment, . . . without a rigid adherence to system nothing could have been accomplished. It would have been impossi- ble to supply it or know whether it was supplied or not. How, this system was derisively known as ‘ red tape,’ . . . and medical men fresh from civil life, who ought to have been learners, were encouraged to assert a prac- tical independence of it as a work of a strong will.” Ho evil was more serious, and none can be more destructive to the efficiency of the medical department and the welfare of the army, and it is, therefore, earnestly en- joined on all who may have in the future to act without previous military training as surgeons to an army, to heed the great lesson taught by experience, that 'prompt obedience and strict fidelity to duty are the first duties of a military surgeon. By exercising these qualities great results are easily achieved; and the personal exertions of the surgeon accomplish prompt results in the speedy and efficient care of the wounded and sick. ISo important, indeed, are these military qualities, that without them any system of administration will fail, and Pirogoff, the great Russian surgeon, says, “ After all, the fate of the wounded depends more on the administration than upon the medical man,” an opinion concurred in by Surgeon-General Roth of the German army.1 The medical history of our armies in the late war amply demonstrates the truth of these remarks ; and the absolute necessity of timely preparation for war is still further emphasized by the changes that have since taken place, and are still in progress, in the methods and material of war. In addition to the speedy concentration on the theatre of war of immense bodies of men, already adverted to, there is added the destructiveness of modern firearms, as 1 Trans. Internat. Med. Congress. London, 1881. VOL. VI.—71