INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE RECTUM. 126 moderate syphilitic stricture, through which a bougie, as thick as my fore- finger, was easily passed. Hemorrhoids. External hemorrhoids may he divided into two varieties: the first includ- ing all hypertrophies or excrescences of skin around the anus; the second, san- guineous venous tumors outside of the external sphincter. These are in fact either coagulations of blood in dilated veins, or coagulated extravasations into the connective tissue. The first variety of external hemorrhoids is often a sequel of the second, as, when a coagulum is absorbed, a small flap or tag of skin remains behind, marking its site and liable to give further trouble by accidentally becoming inflamed at a future period. Should this happen, the tag of skin becomes swollen, cedematous, and shiny, and exceedingly painful to the touch; sometimes it ulcerates, or suppuration may take place if the inflamma- tion runs high, and thus a small but painful little fistula may arise. At times the oedema is so considerable as to extend into the bowel, forming a large swollen ring of skin and everted mucous membrane all around the anus. With regard to the second variety, the sanguineous venous hemorrhoids, they are swollen, ovoid or globular, bluish tumors, very hard and exquisitely painful; they can be pinched up between the finger and thumb from the tissues beneath, and they feel as if a foreign body were present there. Some- times, but rarely, they can by gentle pressure be emptied of their contents ; but this process is not followed by any benefit to the patient, as in a few hours they become more painful and larger than before. By irritation they set up spasm of the sphincter and levatores ani muscles so that they are drawn up and pinched, thus adding much to the patient’s suffering. Just as he is falling to sleep, a spasm takes place and wakes him up; in addition there is constant throbbing, and the sensation as if a foreign body were thrust into the anus ; this excites the desire every now and again to attempt to expel it by straining, which, if indulged in, of course aggravates the pain. Often the patient cannot sit down, save in a constrained attitude, nor can he walk; and when he coughs the succussion causes acute suffering. When the bowels act, and for some time afterwards, the distress is greatly increased. Accompanying all this there are general feverishness, furred tongue, and usually constipation. Such then are the symptoms of an acute “ attack” of external piles, and it must be remembered that one invasion predisposes to another. How what are the causes of external hemorrhoids, remote and exciting? Amongst the former must be included, obstructions of the liver or portal system, fecal accumulations, and anything rendering the return of blood from the rectum difficult. Therefore, whatever induces constipation of a chronic type, may also be regarded as a predisposing cause of external hemorrhoids. Too good living—especially the consumption of la rge quantities of meat—free indulgence in alcoholic drinks, excessive smoking, sedentary occupations, etc., are such causes. Among the exciting causes, exposure to wet or cold, friction from clothing, and the use of printed paper as a detergent (especially the cheap papers from which the ink comes off on the slightest friction), the neglect of proper ablutions, and straining, however induced, are in my experience the most common. Hot unfrequently a little unusual eating and drinking, with- out any absolute excess, is the exciting cause ; an indulgence in effervescing wines or full-bodied ports or new spirits, being especially dangerous. The earliest symptom is a sensation of fulness or plugging up, and of slight pulsa- tion in the anus ; there is also a tendency to constipation, inducing a little