INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS OF THE BONES. 882 an opposite effect. It disturbs the process of ossification, sometimes hasten- ing, but oftener retarding it. In every case it has the effect of diminishing the production of bone. In consequence of crushings or of multiplied inci- sions of the cartilage, there are formed cicatrices in the middle of the carti- laginous tissue, which remain fibrous for a greater or less time, and which hinder the evolution of the series of cartilaginous cavities which remain healthy. It is only in case this direct irritation is slight and not destruc- tive, that it has no unfavorable influence. If the irritation be intense, if it go on to partial destruction of the connecting cartilage, then it causes an arrest of growth proportional to the number of cells destroyed. This is what happens in osteitis which is developed exactly in the position of the cartilage, and which always alters its tissue more or less. In some cases the inflammation passes into the epiphysis, going through the cartilage, which becomes necrosed ; and then the result is an almost absolute arrest of growth. From this it is seen that the seat of inflammation in a bone explains the apparently contradictory effects of' osteitis upon its growth. An inflammation seated in the centre of the diaphysis, or even in the spongy part of the bone, but far enough from the cartilage not to bring about its separation by pus, and still more its destruction, will be followed by lengthening of the bone. An inflammation, on the contrary, situated at the limits of the cartilage, which brings about partial or complete destruction of the normal spongy layer, or even of the whole thickness of the cartilage, by disintegration or by necrosis, will be followed by more or less marked arrest of its growth in length. The excess of growth in bones affected with spontaneous or traumatic osteitis, may amount to seven or eight centimetres in a bone like the tibia. Usually the difference is less, lengthenings of two or three centimetres being the most common. These are observed in adolescents who suffer from a per- sisting remnant of an osteitis which has occurred some years before. Persist- ence of a sequestrum incarcerated in the centre of the diaphysis, or of a simple patch of osteo-myelitis, is enough to produce it, although the patient no longer suffers pain, or at least acute pain. A slow and silent work is going on which produces its effect upon the zone of physiological proliferation, and which finally betrays itself by an increase in length and thickness. Hypertrophy in length does not take place equally in all cases of osteitis. It varies with the end of the bone attacked by inflammation. I showed, in 1861, that bones did not grow equally at their two ends. There is in each bone one extremity which contributes more than the other to the increase in length. By inserting leaden nails in the different bones of young animals, I found that this inequality of increase at the two ends began at birth and continued during the whole period of growth. It was not due then to the different epochs for union of the epiphyses, as might have been supposed. The difference in the time of union of the epiphyses is of little importance in explaining the inequality of growth. The earliest union does not take place until growth is about to cease, and the continuation of growth by the remain- ing cartilage is, on that account, of little importance. In reality, there is a great difference between the two extremities in regard to growth ; and, without being able to formulate it precisely for man, it may be said that in certain bones, as the radius and ulna, for example, increase is at least four times as great at the lower as at the upper end. In the femur, growth at the lower end is about three times as great as that at the upper end, after the age of four years. My experiments have led me to the following conclusions in regard to the growth of the large bones of the limbs:—