INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE URETHRA. 520 to the normal point; and the tracing taken in these eases shows a series of summits which separate more or less deep depressions. Complete apyrexia is very rare in this form of the affection. The complications of this third type are analogous to those mentioned in connection with frank attacks, but they occur almost constantly, and have a character of greater gravity. The most remarkable are those which occur in the digestive apparatus: the tongue becomes red, arid dries rapidly, as like- wise does the throat, of which the patient complains ; the saliva is thin and acid; at the end of several days, when the condition is aggravated, the tongue is covered with a fuliginous deposit, and becomes dusky and crusted (parrot-tongue). Thrush appears often and very rapidly, thick patches cover the internal surface of the cheeks, and especially the pharynx and the soft palate; it has not, however, according to the observation of Guyon, the same prognostic gravity in urinary fever as in other affections. Vomiting and diarrhoea are usually observed ; they have a peculiar character of frequency and severity. Nervous disturbances may be seen, and, in certain cases, the agitation and delirium end in prostration and coma, as in pernicious attacks. Disturbances of the respiration and of the circulation, already mentioned among the complications of frank attacks, are found also in this form, but with a more marked character of tenacity and duration : oppression may he very pronounced; irregularities and intermittency of the heart are usually observed, and although at the beginning the cardio-pulmonary disturbances are not accompanied by any stethoscopic phenomena, it may he feared that, with time, pulmonary congestion with its numerous subcrepitant rales will come on, or even true pneumonia. Analysis of the urine shows that the quantity of urea contained in the urine passed at the moment of the attack is below normal; this is shown by many researches which I have undertaken, and to which I shall return here- after. This diminution of the proportion of urea is absolute. Indeed, during the attack, the quantity of urine excreted is less than at ordinary times; but the secretion resumes its normal quantity and composition after the fever. Quite violent rencd pains may be observed in some cases, but this symptom is after all quite rare. Pain caused even by pressure in the lumbar region is not constant; Guyon, having carefully sought for it in a great number of patients, met with it in only a third or fourth of the cases. There are still other complications which are not met with except in this third form of urinary fever, and much more rarely in the chronic form: these are simple pains, and phlegmonous inflammations which may end in suppura- tion, and which are ordinarily situated in the skin, the subcutaneous and deep cellular tissue, the joints, the muscles, and certain organs. Pustidar erup- tions of the skin, mentioned by Civiale, are of extreme rarity. Much more frequent are alterations of the subcutaneous cellular tissue. They usually appear in the form of irregularly circumscribed and spontaneously painful indurations; they occupy one or more points of the upper extremities especially ; the skin which covers them is red, or has kept its normal color ; their ordinary termination is resolution ; they suppurate only in exceptional cases. The lower extremities, and especially the calves of the legs, are almost exclusively the seat of extremely acute pains, analogous to the pains of rheu- matism; they occupy the depth of the limb, being unaccompanied by swell- ing or redness, and disappear spontaneously, to reappear at longer or shorter intervals. In addition to these relatively benign complications, there are others more serious. They are happily less frequent, almost rare : they are suppuration of the soft parts (cellular tissue and muscles), and of the articulations. According: to Marx, the regions where these abscesses of the cellular tissue