750 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE FEMALE GENITALS. mus,1 there may be sleeplessness, hysterical symptoms, mental depression, and disorder of the general nutrition. Obviously the first thing in the treatment of a case of vaginismus is to give the patient rest from all attempts at sexual intercourse. Next, where possible, to remove the cause of the spasmodic contraction. Thus, a sensitive tumor of the urinary meatus requires excision, vulvar or anal fissures are to he appropriately treated, a resisting hymen is to be incised, while an inflamed caruncle, the hymen having been ruptured, is to be removed; if the latter he done, it is advised to stitch together the borders of the wound so that healing may occur by first intention, and not by the formation of cicatricial tissue, the presence of which may produce as much mischief as the caruncle, or even more. Raw and excoriated surfaces heal readily under the applica- tion of a weak solution of nitrate of silver, of iodoform, or of lotions of lead- water, with warm hip-baths. All local lesions having been removed, or none having been found, the best means for the relief of the liypenesthetic condi- tion is the use of a solution of muriate of cocaine (from four to eight per cent.), applied with a camel’s-hair pencil to the sensitive parts. In many cases no other treatment will be required ; in others surgical means for the relief of the contraction will be needed. These are, chiefly, gradual dilatation of the con- stricting muscles, abrupt dilatation or rupture, and incision. The first is done by the use of a series of speculums, or dilators, increasing from day to day the size of the dilating body as well as the time of its retention, the latter varying from a few minutes to an hour or more. Forced dilatation, similar to that used in anal fissure, may be employed, the patient being anaes- thetized, by introducing two or three fingers into the vagina, and then widely separating them, or by similarly introducing one of the valvular uterine speculums—bivalve, trivalve, or quadrivalve—closed, and then opening and abruptly withdrawing it. Section of the pudic nerve was advised by the late Sir James Y. Simpson, and incision of the perineal body by Savage, while several authors have recommended subcutaneous division of the sphincter. Dr. Sims’s method was described by him as follows:— “ Placing the patient (etherized) on the back, with the thighs well flexed over the abdomen, the orifice of the vagina is to be forcibly dilated by fingers or instrument. Then seize the hymeneal membrane with a delicate pair of lock-forceps just at its junc- tion with die urethra on the left side, and, putting it on the stretch, clip with properly curved scissors till the whole is removed in one continuous piece. Then pass the index and middle fingers of the left hand into the vagina, separate them laterally, so as to dilate it as widely as possible, putting the fourchette on the stretch ; then with a scalpel cut through the vaginal tissue on one side of the mesial line, from above down- ward, terminating at the raphe of the perineum. This cut forms one side of a Y. Then pass the knife again into the vagina, still dilating with the fingers as before, and cut superficially in like manner on the opposite side from above downward, uniting the two incisions at or near the raphe, and prolonging them quite to the perineal integu- ment. Or these vaginal incisions may be made one on each side of the raphe and parallel with it, terminating a third of an inch or more apart, on the perineal surface. The bleeding, usually trifling, is arrested by the introduction of the vaginal plug. I have had two cases where it was necessary to resort to the iron-cotton tampon for twenty-four hours. Generally the dilator is introduced at once. It is made usually of glass, sometimes of metal or ivory. I prefer glass because it is easily kept clean, and, being transparent, we can see the cut surface, and, indeed, the whole vagina, without removing it. Its introduction is attended with a sense of soreness, but with none of the peculiar, agonizing suffering so characteristic of the original disease.” i Sims says that in some instances the sphincter ani feels almost as hard as a hall of ivory ; one of his patients supposed it to be a tumor that would require exsection.