215 CAUSES OF DEATH AFTER LITHOTOMY AND LITHOTRITY. of the calculous mass. ISTor does the composition of the stone enter into the question, excepting only in the case of oxalate of lime. An oxalate-of-lime stone, if quite large, may successfully resist the lithotrite. I was present at an operation upon a stone of this sort, in which the handle of the lithotrite broke, and the patient was thereupon successfully cut. But an oxalate-of-lime stone, one inch in diameter, may be very readily crushed. I have one such stone in my collection, weighing an ounce, removed in thirty-two minutes. A stone may, however, have for a nucleus some foreign body which cannot be properly dealt with by lithotrity, such as a hit of wax, a glass tube, a piece of lead or iron (from gunshot wound), or a bit of silver catheter. I saw a piece of wax removed by Dr. George A. Peters through a Bigelow tube, and I have crushed and removed by the washing bottle a piece of soft rubber catheter which had formed the nucleus of a phosphatic stone. But a stone may he so large that it cannot be grasped by the lithotrite, or it may be small enough to be grasped, and yet, being composed of oxalate of lime, it may fail to break. Then plainly lithotomy is the alternative. Again, a stone may he lodged in some out-of-the-way pouch, as in a hernia of the bladder, or may he encysted and inaccessible to the lithotrite. Here the choice is palliation or lithotomy. If the foregoing line of argument he correct, it is fair to conclude that to lithotomy must be given— 1. All male children before puberty. 2. All cases complicated by very severe, chronic cystitis. 3. Cases of tumor of the bladder complicating stone. 4. Some cases of prostatic overgrowth, not complicated with atony. 5. Some cases of very large prostate through which instruments cannot readily he made to pass. 6. Cases complicated by severe, deep, urethral stricture. 7. Cases of very large or very hard stone. 8. Cases of encysted stone. 9. Cases of certain foreign bodies. All other patients who are proper subjects for radical operation may be best dealt with by lithotrity—very small stones possibly by the old-fashioned operation without ether, perhaps with cocaine, but all other calculi by litho- lapaxy. Causes of Death after Lithotomy and Lithotrity. These are shock, hemorrhage, urinary fever, exhaustion, peritonitis, pyse- mia, septicaemia, surgical kidney, and tetanus, and will be considered here- after under the head of complications. Shock is an uncommon cause of death. In lithotomy the size of the wound is small, the duration of the operation is brief, and no important organs or tissues are invaded. Hemorrhage, formerly more dreaded than other com- plications, is rarely fatal with the means now at the surgeon’s hand, notably the rubber-tampon. Urinary fever may be somewhat guarded against by preparatory treatment. Exhaustion can hardly prove fatal except in a patient with unhealthy organs. Peritonitis, except as accompanying cellu- litis, is rare. It is more common in children than in adults, and has been noticed after lithotrity. Pyaemia, septicaemia, and surgical kidney, are the most common causes of death after lithotomy or lithotrity, the iirst two usually as an accompaniment of cellulitis, caused often by bruising or lace- rating the soft parts while extracting a large stone, particularly if the urine be putrid, by infiltration of urine, burrowing abscess, etc. Surgical kidney