272 URINARY CALCULUS. be best executed by dividing them into three steps; the superficial incision,, opening the urethra, and the deep incision. For the superficial incision the operator places his left index finger upon the raphe of the perineum to steady the tissues centrally upon the groove of the staff, and enters the point of his scalpel boldly at a point about one inch and a quarter in front of the anus, and about one-third of an inch to- the (patient’s) left of the raphe. The incision is begun on the left of the raphe in order the more certainly in the second step of the operation to- escape the bulb. The plane of the blade is directed so that the superficial incision shall lie in the perineum midway between the anus and the tuber isehii. The point of the knife is made to penetrate directly inward toward the groove of the staff', more or less deeply according to the fatness of the individual, but sufficiently to cut well through the superficial tissues at the first stroke. From thence the incision is continued downwards and outwards about two and a half inches in a line midway between the anus and the tuber isehii, growing somewhat more superficial toward its termination. The left index finger now enters the wound, and pushes the bulb of the urethra towards the patient’s right, while the pulp of the finger depresses the rectum and the nail is made to feel for the groove in the staff at a point as far back toward the membranous urethra as possible. A few light touches with the point of the knife, made always in the line of the first incision, facili- tate the approach of the finger to the depths of the perineum. The second step in the operation, opening the urethra, commences when the finger-nail, deep in the perineum, recognizes the inner edge of the groove in the staff. The point of the scalpel is now conducted along the nail, well backward, and made to enter the groove, when the operator and the holder of the staff at once recognize the rough feeling of contact between the two metallic surfaces. Now the back of the point of the scalpel, pressed up firmly into the groove of the staff, is run directly inwards, the blade being held more horizontally as it advances, until the point has entered the neck of the bladder. Then the handle of the knife is slightly depressed, and its blade made to cut its way outward in the line of the original incision, enlarging it more or less according to the known dimensions of the stone to- be extracted, thus terminating the deep incision, and completing the third step in the cutting operation. Exactly what amount of pressure to place upon the blade of the knife in executing this third step, is a matter of judgment and of individual tact and experience, which cannot be written down in words. The old operator needs- no caution upon this point. The young operator should remember that his caution is liable to make him incise the neck of the bladder too modestly, and that more injury will be caused by rude efforts at extracting a large stone through too small an incision, than would follow a reasonably free in- cision of the bladder’s neck made at one stroke downward and outward, and in a position to drain itself effectively. Any sharp arterial spurt noticed during any of these incisions may be attended to by ligature at once, but ordinary bleeding may be disregarded. A gush of bloody urine, more or less copious according to the previous disten- tion of the bladder, follows the withdrawal of the knife on the last incision. The left index finger is at once inserted into the bladder along the groove of the staff, and the latter is withdrawn. The finger, now within the bladder, generally touches the stone, arrests the further outflow cf urine, dilates the neck of the bladder, and appreciates the depth of the incision in the same. If this be considered insufficient, the Elizard knife is inserted along the finger, and, so guided, enlarges the original deep incision, cutting evenlj- outward and downward, so that the bottom of the wound may be one inclined plane.