529 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE PENIS. of gunshot injury. The glans penis may he removed, or the ball may traverse the body of the penis leaving the urethra untouched, or the whole organ may be carried away. The hemorrhage is not excessive, but inflam- mation and suppuration ensue, and cause swelling and attacks of retention. As in other parts of the body, the ball is to be removed and the wound dressed with a mild disinfecting lotion. Bullets may become encysted. Lacerated wounds of the penis are very severe, and may be caused by the penis being caught between two revolving cog-wheels which lacerate the organ and the parts around. They are attended by severe inflammation and suppuration. Wounds caused by the bites of animals are peculiar, as often the part is not cleanly bitten through, the corpora cavernosa giving way more readily than their tough coverings ; there is a combination of tearing and biting. An interesting case is cited in Bryant’s Surgery: — The patient, a man aged 50, when 19 years old had his penis bitten by a stal- lion; a fleshy, cylindrical mass, an inch and a quarter long and one-third of an inch in diameter, projected from the orifice of the urethra, and was evidently the everted end of the corpus spongiosum, the main part of which terminated abruptly one inch behind the glans penis. The urine flowed by the side of the protrusion. Fracture of the penis is said to occur when the organ is forcibly bent when in a state of turgescence. It may occur to a drunken man during connection, by his “missing his mark”, as in a case mentioned by Mr. Bryant; or may be done out of mischief, and in some cases is said to be done to relieve a chordee—a most dangerous proceeding which leads to organic stricture. Rupture of the penis is attended by a distinct sound, the organ becomes flaccid, and extravasation of blood takes place rapidly and profusely. Dr. Valentine Mott1 treated two cases successfully by rest and the application of cold to the part. Van Buren and Keyes2 recommend a stout gum-elastic cathe- ter to be retained in the urethra and bladder, firm pressure to be made by means of adhesive strapping, or collodion, or both, and cold to be applied locally. It is unadvisable to make incisions into the part, as they will lead to suppu- ration, but they must be made antiseptically should suppuration threaten. The penis is left in a damaged condition, owing to the deposit of fibrous tissue. A man, aged 30, struck his penis during coitus against his wife’s pubes. When seen, his penis, much enlarged, was the seat of an extensive extravasation of blood. The skin was distended to such an extent that gangrene threatened, and the first act of the surgeon therefore was to incise it. The urine was drawn off with difficulty, and the instrument was retained. A portion of the prepuce and sheath of the penis became gangrenous, and urinary abscesses followed. The patient recovered, but during erection the penis was very awkwardly bent.3 Luxation of the penis is a very rare and curious accident; the term luxa- tion is not strictly a correct one, as the penis does not articulate with any portion of the body, but is attached to the pelvis by its crura and by strong ligaments. M. Kelaton has, however, described the accident under the above designation. There are a cast and a drawing of a remarkable case of the kind in the anatomical museum of King’s College. The scrotum and penis are from a well-developed adult. The penis is normally situated, but is wrinkled and shrunken, looking as if it were without the corpora cavernosa, and would doubtless feel soft in the living subject, 1 Transactions of the New York Academy of Medicine, 1851. 2 Treatise on the Surgical Diseases of the Genito-Urinary Organs, etc. New York, 1874. 3 Pilore, Lo Sperimentale, Ottobre, 1881. VOL. VI 34