INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. 658 rise to epididymitis, and may unfortunately cause an obliteration of the excretory ducts. If both testicles be present, the inflammation must take place on both sides to cause the disappearance of the zoosperms. Inflamma- tion arising from traumatic causes will be more likely to cause extra-tubular deposit than gonorrhoeal inflammation, which travels down the tubes, starting from the prostatic urethra. The prognosis is therefore more favorable in the former than in the latter case. Out of eighty-three cases of bilateral blen- norrhagic epididymitis tabulated by M. Liegeois, he found that the sperma- tozoa reappeared in only eight cases. The disappearance of the induration of the epididymis is a good sign, as it generally, but not always, indicates a return of fertility ; in cases in which the deposit is due to an ordinary inflam- mation, the spermatozoa may pass in spite of the induration (Curling). The secretion of the testicle, which is not suspended, may cause a dilatation behind the obstruction, and a sensation of discomfort when coitus is indulged in. Professor Billroth1 has never seen tubercular nodules disappear spontane- ously, and considers them to be incurable:— Once only, at the urgent request of a patient, a strongman who had become impotent, and who had been told by his medical attendants that the condition was due to the pres- sure of the nodules on the vas deferens, Billroth consented to operate without holding out any great hopes of a successful issue, because simple pressure on the vas deferens is but rarely met with ; generally the larger spermatic ducts and epididymis are involved in the degeneration, and are thus rendered impermeable. He laid open the scrotum on both sides, drew out the testes, carefully removed the nodules, replaced the organs, and then sewed up the wounds in the scrotum. The operation was done with antiseptic precautions ; the parts healed by the first intention, but the ultimate result in restoring function was not known, as the patient was lost sight of. A specimen in King’s College Museum shows obliteration of the vas deferens by a cyst full of cheesy matter, which communicated with it, about an inch above the epididymis. Such a case might, under certain circum- stances, be considered amenable to operation. Where there is no sterility, the surgeon should not interfere, as some of the ducts yet pervious might be injured. In cases in which the testes are absent or atrophied, or in which their secretory tissue has been destroyed by the presence of new growths, spermatozoa will be absent. Temporary azoospermia, in contradistinction to the above-described con- dition, which may be considered permanent, may be present in certain diseases; and, as already remarked, according to Casper and Liegeois, men in good health may, after excessive sexual indulgence, excrete semen destitute of spermatozoa, which reappear when the organs have had the necessary physiological rest. Satyriasis.—The term satyriasis signifies a morbid exaggeration of the sexual appetite in man. The desire to indulge in the sexual act is irresistible and insatiable, and a faculty of exercising it a great number of times is pos- sessed by the affected individual. Women suffer more often than men from this unfortunate condition, which with them is called nymphomania. It is a symp- tom of disease elsewhere; in fact, a form of madness or impulsive monomania. A chronic cerebral affection will give rise to erotomania, which has for its starting-point a disorder of the cerebral functions, the imagination only being at fault; but in satyriasis the source of evil is in the reproductive organs. Men with perversion of the intellect may at any time become frenzied, and be ruled by their instincts, and these may impel them to commit unlooked-for extrava- gances which land them in an asylum or a prison. Infancy and old age furnish 1 Clinical Surgery, New Sydenham Society’s Translation. London, 1881.