SCROFULO-TUBERCULOUS AFFECTIONS OF BONES. 921 is concerned, a general fact, and one well known at the present time, that the bacilli, which remain inoffensive, even in incalculable numbers, in healthy tissues, precipitate themselves immediately upon these same tissues as soon as they are changed by inflammation, this making them a favorable medium for culture.1 The part of traumatism is therefore incontestable in the etiology of tuberculous affections of the bones; but it must not be exaggerated, nor must all tuberculous osteopathies be attributed to a traumatic cause. In the preceding pages I have recalled, and appealed to, the law so justly established by M. Ollier, the law of the relation of morbid processes to the physiological activity of the cartilages of growth. It is well to add here, that traumatism effects some modifications in the clinical expression of this law, at least in inflammatory lesions. Thus, for example, in the humerus, the upper end ought to present more inflammatory lesions than the lower end, since it contributes most to the lengthening of the bone. But, in practice, the lower end of the humerus is most frequently found diseased, either primarily or consecutively to an affection of the elbow. This depends upon the superficial position of this extremity, which exposes it to daily traumatisms, and upon the fact that the upper extremity is protected against these causes by its position, and by the thickness of the muscular covering which surrounds the scapulo-humeral region. Age.—Tuberculous osteopathies are most common in childhood- and ado- lescence. When they are met with in adults or old persons, they are usually relapses, or have been preceded, at a former time, by osteitis of the same nature, in other parts. Old persons with osteopathies are ordinarily persons who have relapsed. Nevertheless, scrofulo-tuberculous osteopathies are sometimes seen to appear for the first time in cachectic old persons. I have under observation, at the present time, two such cases, in patients who until now have had no disease of the bone. It is possible to become tuberculous at any age : through the bones, the skin, or the viscera. It is only necessary to offer, at any time, a suitable soil for the evolution of the parasites of tuberculosis. Climate.'—It is generally recognized that, if cold and wet climates are ■especially rich in scrofulo-tuberculous osteopathies, in all latitudes, yet the great centres of population and poverty furnish a considerable contingent to the statistics of this common disease of the skeleton. Symptoms and Diagnosis.—There are no symptoms peculiar to tuberculous affections of the bones, no pathognomonic signs. There may be a strong pre- sumption that tuberculosis of the bones is present, after a thorough examina- tion of all the conditions of the patient; but no absolute sign indicates it, unless perchance a sequestrum spontaneously eliminated has been secured and examined by the microscope, or exploration has permitted the collection of some portions of a fungous growth which the microscope has shown to be tuberculous. Except in these cases, the symptomatology gives only proba- bilities—up to the present time at least. Examination of the products of suppuration in diseases of the bones, and the examination of the blood of patients and of their excretions, might, by dis- closing the presence of bacilli, the specific parasites, give a pathognomonic means of diagnosis, if such a method were clinically practicable. Clinical observation enters upon this road full of the most legitimate hopes. Fer- gusson has made a collection of statistics, the result of which is that, out of a total of 2509 cases of phthisis, in which search was made for bacilli (most Bacilles de la tuberculose. (Revue de Medecine, Sept. 1883, p. 782.)