FOREIGN BODIES IN THE OESOPHAGUS. 9 In patients with stricture of the oesophagus, want of care in swallowing only proper morsels of food, or carelessness in putting improper things into the mouth, will give rise to the accident. Impaction is the more serious by reason of the stricture.1 Points of Lodgment.—-There being three anatomical regions at which the calibre of the oesophagus is normally smaller than elsewhere, there are that many points at which lodgment is the more likely to take place. These points are: (1) at the pharyngeal extremity of the tube: (2) at the point where the oesophagus is crossed by the left primitive bronchus; and (3) at the point where it passes through the opening in the diaphragm, just above the expan- sion into the cardiac extremity. Spiculated and irregularly shaped sub- stances are apt to become entangled or partially imbedded in the mucous membrane, and may become impacted at any portion of the oesophagus. Effects, Immediate and Consecutive.—Sudden death by suffocation may ensue by compression of the trachea, by blocking the outlet, of the air-passages when the foreign body is partly lodged in the pharynx, or by spasm of the glottis, due to irritation. Death occurring in this manner has sometimes been mis- taken for death by cerebral apoplexy. Laceration by jagged objects may produce hsematemesis. Prolonged detention of a foreign body may some- times result in dilatation of the oesophagus, annular or sacculated. Sometimes the foreign body becomes permanently lodged in the diverticulum.2 Foreign bodies sometimes remain for years in the oesophagus and cause comparatively little suffering. Sometimes, as with needles and pins, they work their way in safety through the different tissues to the surface of the , body, even to the most unlikely regions.3 In some instances, when unheard of, they probably become encysted. In others they occasion abscesses at various portions of the surface, with the contents of which they are discharged, or through the openings of which they are extracted. They may escape through an abscess of the neck.4 Sometimes an oesophageal abscess, due to inflammation excited by a foreign body, communicates with the trachea, the bronchi, the pleura, the lung, the mediastinum, or the pericardium. Indigestible foreign bodies, propelled into the stomach, most frequently pass through the intestinal tract and are discharged by defecation. Some of them excite ulceration in the stomach, or in some portion of the intestine, and are discharged through an abscess bursting at the exterior of the body. They may thus escape at the epigastrium,5 at the extremity of the rectum, or elsewhere. In the valuable memoir of ILivin,6 an instance is related in which three different substances, swallowed by the same individual, emerged through as many abscesses, at the right and left hypochondria, and at the lumbar region, respectively. Fish-bones are liable to produce serious multiple lesions. Thus, sudden death has been reported in a case of impaction in the oesophagus of a fish- bone which penetrated the stomach, the diaphragm, the pericardium, the posterior surface of the heart, the interventricular septum, and the left coro- nary vein;7 and of a fish-bone which penetrated the oesophagus, diaphragm, and pericardium, and wounded the surface of the left ventricle.8 Wound of 1 Menzel, Arch. f. klin. Chir., Bd. xiii. S. 078. 1872 ; Brit. Med. Journ., Aug. 31, 1872, p. 243. 2 Monti, Jahrb. fur Kinderlieilkunde, 20 Oct. 1875. 3 Cohen, Diseases of the Throat, etc., p. 319. New York, 1879. 4 Fortune, case cited by Poulet. 5 Cripps, Brit. Med. Journ., March 22, 1884, p. 561. 6 Memoire sur les corps etrangers de l’oesophage. Paris, 1743 ; Memoires de l’Academie Royale de Chirurgie, t. i. p. 501. Paris, 1701. 7 Andrews, Lancet, Aug. 25, 1860, p. 186. 8 Eve, Brit. Med. Jorum., April 3, 1880, p. 517.