277 LITHOTOMY. oases in which it was proved by autopsy that the point of the staff had pene- trated the roof of the bladder, thus leading to a fatal termination. He thinks that this perforation of the thin wall of an empty bladder may be the cause of certain rapidly fatal cases of peritonitis after lithotomy, and counsels the use of a staff with short curve. 2. Incision of the Body of the Bladder.—This incision is habitually made in children. It is also often made where large stones are extracted from the adult. In some of the operations of the earlier lithotomists the body of the bladder was always incised. The result of this depth of incision in the adult is not necessarily fatal, and, while the careful operator avoids the mistake, he may make it unwittingly, and yet the case progress satisfactorily. 3. Wounding the Rectum.—The rectum has been wounded at the hands of nearly all the best operators—Thompson confesses to four such cases—either because the staff has been improperly held, or the finger not used to depress the loose folds of the bowel during the deep incision, or because the gut has been very large (in old men) or much distended, or because the knife in the deep incision has not been sufficiently lateralized, or because in withdrawing a rough stone through a narrow external wound the rectum has been torn into. The lower down toward the sphincter that the opening occurs, and the smaller it is, the more readily does it heal, particularly if the subject be young and healthy; but the accident is always a disagreeable one, and it may entail urethro-rectal fistula. The treatment is at first expectant, as most cases recover during the healing of the wound. The rectum should he kept empty, and the wound should be frequently and freely irrigated. If fistula ensues and is well above the sphincter, after it has been allowed to contract during several months, it may be treated by cauterization with the electro-cautery or thermo-cautery, but only if the opening is not larger than a crow-quill. For larger openings a plastic operation should be attempted, by sliding the mucous membrane over the orifice, the margins of which have been previously made raw. Such an operation is exceedingly difficult, because the fistula usually lies at the bottom of a sort of funnel, and stretching the sphincter makes the parts tense and deepens the funnel. If the fistula is low down, just above the sphincter, after due time it should be freely laid open through the sphincter and treated like an ordinary fistula in ano, or the edges may be freshened and brought together with silver wire. 4. Hemorrhage.—Moderate bleeding may be disregarded. An arterial spurt, however, should always receive attention at the time of its occurrence, unless it is made during the last incision, when the stone should be speedily extracted, and then the hemorrhage attended to by ligature or by some of the means already detailed (p. 268). The forcipressure forceps and the rubber tampon make hemorrhage much less to be dreaded than formerly. Very hot water injected into the wound is often efficient against oozing. 5. Rigidity of the Neck of the Bladder.—This is a complication encountered in old men, entirely apart from the size of the prostate. Thompson insists upon its importance. The neck of the bladder, even when incised, does not yield to dilatation, and it becomes necessary either to tear it in extracting the stone, or to cut it freely in one or more directions. The latter course is decidedly preferable, since, if an opening of a given size must be made, it is better to make it cleanly with the knife than rudely while extracting the stone. 6. Beep Perineum.—When the finger cannot reach beyond the prostate, or if the stone be small and so much dilatation of the neck of the bladder is not desired as would be effected by passing the forceps over the finger, a crested scoop or blunt gorget is generally used to conduct the forceps to the stone.