710 INJURIES AND DISEASES OP THE FEMALE GENITALS. the tumors may present a raspberry-like appearance. Their color varies from a pinkish-white to deep reel, or even violet, when they may be turgid, and may resemble erectile tumors. They may be small and few, or large and many, and a great number may be united so as to make a mass the size of a child’s head1 or of that of an adult.2 They are found upon the nymphse, upon the clitoris and its hood, at the orifice of the urethra, upon the ves- tibule, upon the labia majora and the adjoining skin, and at the anus. They become much larger during a menstrual period, and especially during pregnancy, often disappearing after labor. They have been observed in chil- dren ; Dr. Walter G. Smith3 has reported their occurrence in two sisters, one four, the other fourteen years of age, and in neither was there any evidence of syphilis. When the growths are large, the patient finds it difficult to walk or even to sit; the only tolerable position is lying on the back with the lower limbs flexed. They give rise to a discharge, which in some cases has a most offen- sive odor. While in the majority of cases these growths have a venereal origin, in many other instances they cannot be thus explained. Kuhn says that it is possible that vegetations may originate in a simple inflammation of the vulva and vagina, if these are mechanically irritated. A conclusive argument against the syphilitic character of these growths, is the fact that they may occur in pregnant women who are entirely free from venereal disease, and spontaneously disappear when the pregnancy has ended. The most different irritating causes produce this local accident, which always remains a mani- festation limited to the point of its development, and which does not denote constitutional contamination. While usually papillomata are not in them- selves sensitive, but cause pain from their attachment, yet in some cases not only are the papillse developed, but the subjacent connective tissue also, with its nerves and vessels, enters into the structure of these growths, and then they are very sensitive. The treatment consists in excision, or in cauterization. The former is suit- able for the vegetations when few and pedunculated; curved scissors may be used, and the wound may be touched with a solution of perchloride of iron, or with a stick of nitrate of silver. If the growths are extensive, an anaes- thetic should be used, and then they may be destroyed by the thermo-cautery, the galvano-cautery, or by crystallizable acetic acid, hydrochloric acid, or nitric acid ; chromic acid is rejected because of its producing so much pain. In case of very large tumors, removal with the ecraseur or the galvano-cautery wire is necessary. Where there is great tendency to the reappearance of the vegetations, L. de Sinety advises daily painting the surface where they are seen to show themselves with a saturated solution of picric acid. When these vegetations occur in pregnancy, it is not generally advisable to operate on them, as they usually disappear after confinement, and as their removal is attended with considerable bleeding. Charpentier refers to two cases of pregnant women in whom the growths were as large as apples ; by simply isolating the affected surfaces and applying compresses dipped in Labarraque’s solution, the tumors disappeared before the end of gestation.4 IDematoma.-—By htematoma or thrombus of the vulva, is meant a collec- tion of blood in the vulvar connective tissue. This collection usually occupies 1 British Medical Journal, 1865. In this case, observed at the Hull General Hospital and occurring in a girl twenty-one years old, the tumor was removed with knife, ecraseur, and liga- ture. 2 Med. Times, 1872. 3 Dublin Journal of Medical Science, volume lsix. 4 Guerin, op. cit.; L. de Sinety, op. cit.; Breisky, op. cit. ; Charpentier, Traite Pratique des Ac- couchements. Paris, 1883.