182 URINARY CALCULUS. scrotum of a boy of eighteen, which was three inches long and one inch in circumference centrally. Lippoman1 records the case of a man of sixty-eight, who, fifteen years previously, had had a scrotal stone, weighing one hundred and twenty grammes, removed by incision. A fistula remained. New stone formation occurred, and Lippoman took out four phosphatic calculi, weigh- ing forty grammes, as large collectively as a goose-egg. Louis2 refers to an enormous perineal stone, weighing ten and a half ounces, removed by M. de Gaigneau from a patient of fifty-eight, who had been cut for a stone at the age of eight, and was known to have carried his perineal stone more than twenty years. In the same article he quotes a most remarkable case from a dissertation by Denj’s de Launay, printed in 1700. Five years after lithot- omy, a large stone escaped spontaneously from the perineum of the patient, and was discovered in his bed. The surgeon who was summoned, it is related, then and there, through the same opening, withdrew from the blad- der a stone which weighed seventeen ounces. Amussat3 records another case of spontaneous exit of vesical calculi in front of the scrotum. The patient was thirty-three years old, and had suffered for twenty years previously from urinary symptoms; the stones had ulcerated their way through the skin, and were pressed out by the surgeon. There were two stones fitted together, collectively one by two inches in diameter. It is narrated of this patient that, up to a short time before the spontaneous exit of the stones, he had urinated and performed the sexual act naturally. He got well without a fistula. Alex. Patterson4 reports a case of perineal stone following a traumatism. The patient removed an ounce with a chisel, and the rest of the stone, weighing 14J ounces, came away spontaneously. Vaginal calculus is a similar instance of outside stone formation. Herbert Cole5 describes two such calculi taken from the vagina of a child of eight, one of which had a button for a nucleus. The total weight of these mixed phosphatic stones was four ounces. The floor of the urethra had sloughed. -T. G. Wilson, of Glasgow,6 speaks of a uterine calculus, discovered and removed during labor, and believed to have been due to vesico-uterine fistula. The secretary of the Edinburgh Obstetrical Society reports another precisely similar case in the same journal. In neither instance was the fistula seen. Old medical writings contain numerous references to uterine calculi, most of which are undoubtedly examples of calcareous tissue change.7 I have removed, by lithotomy, a larsje phosphatic calculus which had collected in the vagina of a lady who had suffered from vesico-vaginal fistula, and whose vulva had been nearly closed to create a reservoir for the urine. The cavities of abscesses in the pelvis, perineum, and thighs, which com- municate with the bladder, often contain more or less phosphatic calculous material. Thus it will be seen that after lithotomy leaving a fistula, in cases of abscess or wound communicating with the bladder, or in connection with a stone ulcerating its way out, phosphatic calculous material is quite sure to precipitate in any situation outside of the bladder. The symptoms of such stones vary with their position and size. The treatment is removal and operative closure of the vesical end of the- fistula, when practicable. 1 Wratschebuyja Wedomosti, No. 454, 1881 ; and Centralblatt f. Cliir., 23 April, 1881. 2 Mem. de l’Acad. Roy. de Cliir., t. iii. p. 332. 3 Rev. de Therap. Med.-Cliir., p. 372. Paris, 1869. 4 Glasgow Med. Journ., June, 1884, p. 409. 5 Lond. Med. Reposit., vol. viii. p. 109. 1817. 6 Edinb. Med Journal, vol. viii. p. 92. 1826. 7 An interesting article by Louis, with ample references to previously reported cases in this line, is found in the Mem. de l’Acad. Roy. de Cliir., t. ii. pp. 130-150. Paris, 1753.