INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. 558 Mr. John Wood showed, at the Pathological Society of London, the pelvis and geni- tal organs of a so-called adult hermaphrodite. This epicene individual was aged GO years, then passed as a woman, and had been married to and deserted by a man. The general appearance of the body was that of a female, 5 feet 9 inches in height, with long iron-gray hair and rather strongly marked features. There was some dark-colored down upon the upper lip, and there were a few long straggling hairs about the chin. The skin was soft, smooth, and tolerably fair; the mamms were woman-like, with fairly de- veloped, prominent nipples; the left weighed 2f oz., the right 2\ oz.; the hairs in the axillae and on the pubes were few and scattered. An imperforate penis, about the size of the organ in a boy of ten years, simulated a very large clitoris, and was provided with an oval glans about ^ of an inch in diameter. The prepuce formed a perfect fold or hood above, but was split below, where it ended on each side in a well-formed labium minus, which passed down and was finally lost in a sort of posterior fourchette. An indication of a flattened and imperfect fnenum was seen below the glans. About f of an inch below this was the oval opening of a cul-de-sac, in the situation of the vagina, admitting a bougie f of an inch in diameter to the extent of fully two inches ; the cul-de-sac was lined with a smooth membrane quite free from rugse. The labia majora were very voluminous, and hung free from the perineum like a split scrotum, meeting by a fold of skin or fourchette behind and below the vaginal opening. Within each was easily seen and felt a full-sized, plump, and well-formed testicle, suspended by a cord and covered with all the usual coverings of the latter ; the crura penis were well formed, fair sized, and provided with an erector penis muscle. The bulb or semibulb of the spongy body was of quite the adult male size, and lay upon and covered each side of the vaginal tube. Upon it lay the half of the accelerator urime muscle of the same side, and below and behind was a well-marked broad transversus perinei muscle. The triangular ligament and the deep compressor urethrae muscles lay deep behind and above the vaginal pouch, and supported a prostate gland. The vasa deferentia and vesiculae seminales were quite normal. The prostate, situated above the false vagina, inclosed the urethra, which opened about one inch from the orifice of the cul-de-sac} In another case the patient during life had passed as a woman. The organs, on post- mortem examination, did not exhibit simply an arrest of growth, but showed that the deviation from the normal standard had taken place in the direction towards the male sex ; thus, not merely were there a want of vagina, a small uterus, and an imperfectly developed single ovary, but the enlargement of the clitoris, the long urethra, and the prostate, approximated in character to the organs of the male.1 2 Hydrocele. Common Vaginal Hydrocele.—By the term hydrocele is meant an accumu- lation of serous fluid in connection with the testis or cord. When the tunica vaginalis, which covers the testicle and lines the scrotum, is affected with acute or chronic inflammation, it secretes, like other serous membranes, a quantity of serous fluid which causes a distension of the tunic, and the con- dition known as the common or vaginal form of hydrocele. The inflammation may be acute, but it is more often chronic and unattended by marked symp- toms. At times the effusion is caused by secondary cysts contained within the tunica vaginalis, by loose bodies, by varicocele, by operations implicating the vaginal tunic; and of late it lias been ascribed in some cases to the pre- sence of the Filaria Bancrofti.3 Mr. Curling’s valuable table exhibits the different varieties and compli- cation's of hydrocele :4—- 1 Trans. Path. Soc. Lond., vol. xxiii. p. 169. 8 Ibid., vol. xxix. 2 Ibid., vol. xi. p. 158. 4 Op. cit., p. 96.