580 INJURIES AND DISEASES OP THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. tion of the parts; the swelling will have appeared suddenly, and will be excessive. An attempt must be made to ascertain the situation of the tes- ticle, by making firm pressure on different parts of the swelling, which is generally oedematous. The surgeon must if possible trace down the cord to the testicle, which is usually a little below the middle, at the back part of the swelling. Sir B. Brodie reports the dissection of two cases of hsematocele in which the spermatic cord was traced to the back of the swelling, where it became adherent to the surrounding parts, but in which the testicle was not to be found. Mr. Curling says that complete wasting of the gland is rare, and advises that great care be taken not to cut into it, as it may, when inverted, be situated in front of the swelling. Some observers believe that the com- pression of the testicle by the effusion causes it to waste, and to fail in the secretion of spermatozoa. The effused blood may remain quiescent, or may cause inflammation and suppuration. In hsematoceles of long standing, the sac becomes very thick and even calcareous. Treatment.—When the effusion is slight and there are no signs of constitu- tional disturbance, the patient should rest in bed, support the part on a pillow, and have leeches, cold lotion, or an ice-bag applied. The blood is slowly absorbed. If however the extravasation be extensive and progressive, with great pain and tension of the parts, the swelling should be freely laid open and the wound dressed antiseptically. In cases of hydrocele associated with 1 Hematocele, the fluid, if free from fibrin, will flow through a canula, and after repeated tappings the disease will be cured. If rapid swelling come on, attended with pain and fever, it will be necessary to lay the parts freely open, proceeding cautiously and tying every bleeding vessel. All the clots and fibrin should be turned out of the sac, which should be dressed lightly and not stuffed with lint. M. Gosselin advocates the removal of the sac. If the patient were an old man, it would be a safer operation to remove the whole of the tumor, sac and testicle. These cases should be treated antiseptically. Encysted Hematocele of Testicle.—When effusion of blood takes place into a cyst situated in the neighborhood of the epididymis, an encysted hcematocele of the testicle ensues. The diagnosis is not easy; the testicle is felt below the cyst, and is not obscured by it. There is generally a history of an injury to the part, or of the presence of a cyst, but this has often been so small that it has escaped the patient’s notice. There will be a swelling, opaque and fluctuating, from which a trocar and canula will evacuate some blood-stained fluid. Hematocele op the spermatic cord may be of the diffused or of the encysted variety. The late Mr. Maunder1 reported a case of extravasation of blood in the left spermatic cord which had come on during copulation; there was a good deal of ecchymosis, and it resembled the cases described as diffused hydrocele of the cord. If the hemorrhage be not progressive it will be absorbed under the use of stimulating lotions, but if the bleeding continue an incision will be necessary. Encysted Juematocele of the spermatic cord is caused by extravasation of blood into a cyst of the spermatic cord. There is a specimen in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons, of an encysted haematocele of the spermatic cord, which has above it a hernia, and below it a vaginal hydrocele. It but very rarely happens that an encysted lnematocele of the cord is formed by an extra- vasation of blood into its cellular tissue becoming encysted. The swelling would be small and easily dispersed by an antiseptic incision. 1 Medical Times and Gazette, Oct. 1858, p. 413.