OVARIAN CYSTS AND CYSTOMATA. 797 * Op. cit., p. 716. > Diseases of the Ovaries, p. 275. The puncture is commonly made in the median line, and inflicts little or no pain. But, simple as this proceeding seems, it is not devoid of danger. In many cases the irritation and unequal pressure of the cystoma upon the peritoneum predisposes the patient to peritonitis, which the puncture of even a fine needle is sufficient to develop; and in the American Journal of Obste- trics for 1876, Dr. Munde reports four authenticated cases of death from this cause. Others are on record, both in Europe and in this country ; but these suffice to establish the necessity for extreme caution in resorting to aspira- tion. Ten years ago, Dr. Peaslee, whose vast experience and methodical mind entitle all his opinions to respect, in discussing this subject, declared that he thought the aspirator quite as dangerous as the trocar. Although the reasons for dissenting from this opinion are too obvious to require mention, the fact that it was held by so thoughtful an observer, is significant. Among the lesser dangers attending it are simple peritonitis and septic fever with decomposition of the sac contents, as reported by Thomas, Goodell, Thorn- ton, Skene, Schroeder, and others. Paracentesis or tapping is still more liable to subject the patient to the dangers just enumerated. It will be considered fully under the head of palliative treatment, but need not detain us here, for, as a method of diag- nosis, it is practically abandoned. If resorted to for this purpose, the surgeon should be prepared to follow it at once by ovariotomy, if lie should obtain evidence to indicate an ovarian cyst. The early writers laid great stress upon its value, and even Sir Spencer Wells1 and Prof. Thomas2 speak approv- ingly of it as a means of diagnosis; but a careful reading of the latter author shows that he really means to describe it as a palliative mode of treat- ment, and among British ovariotomists neither Tait nor Keith, Thornton nor Bantock, employ it. Many years ago, Kiwisch .proved that of 130 cases of first tapping of ovarian cysts, 17 per cent, were soon fatal; and the objec- tions to this practice, unless the surgeon be prepared for an immediate resort to ovariotomy (as above stated), are too obvious to be discussed. The chemical and microscopical characters of ovarian fluids have already been described in considering the morbid anatomy of these growths. In doubtful and difficult cases, the explorative incision constitutes the final and crucial test of ovarian cysts. As in paracentesis, its danger is evident, and it must never be resorted to without making all the preparations for a completed ovariotomy. But it is more rational than tapping, and the wound inflicted is more directly under the surgeon’s control. A short incision—never more than two inches for a supposed cyst—is made in the linea alba, midway between the pubis and umbilicus. When the peri- toneum is opened, the ascetic fluid, if any, is allowed to drain away, one or two fingers are passed into the cavity, and the surface of the growth and its connec- tion with the pelvic organs are examined; the edges of the wound are then gently lifted, and the tumor is inspected by the eye, which at once distinguishes between the white glistening coat of a cystoma and the dark venous surface of an elastic soft fibroid. Finally, a sound or searcher is carefully swept around the surface of the growth in all directions, and its adhesions and probable origin thus ascertained. If doubt still remains, a careful aspiration of the tumor may be practised, the puncture being made with a fine hypo- dermic needle, and the fluid carefully inspected. All this is done with antiseptic precautions, and with the utmost gentle- ness and delicacy, until a decision be reached to proceed with the extirpation of the growth. Should this be negatived, the wound is accurately closed with interrupted sutures (either silk or metallic) and dressed antiseptically,