INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE BLADDER AND PROSTATE. 384 Where there is residual urine, the fact is indicated by signs of its decompo- sition. It smells offensive or ammoniacal, becomes alkaline, and contains mucus in excess. Its presence is proved by obtaining urine with a catheter after the patient thinks that he has emptied his bladder. A persistence of this condition of residual urine invariably ends in the production of chronic cystitis, the management of which has already been described. When the patient is thus prevented from completely emptying his blad- der, artificial assistance must be rendered. Sometimes an altered position,, such as bending forwards on the knees, is found sufficient for supplementing micturition. This may be tried, but as a rule the patient finds greater com- fort and convenience from the use of a well-devised catheter, which he is instructed how to introduce. The flexible-rubber instrument should first be tried. Failing these, a gum-elastic catheter. With one or other of these instruments the patient should be required to draw off his water just as often as he feels a necessity for this I’elief. A person of ordinary intelligence will soon find this out for himself. It would be just as absurd to prescribe, under these circumstances, howT frequently the catheter should be passed, as it would be to indicate how many times in the twenty-four hours a patient should make water. It is astonishing to notice how rapidly the urine often returns to its normal state, and what comfort the patient, who may have been suffering from extreme irritability of the bladder, will derive from this treatment alone. Where sudden retention of urine occurs in elderly persons, the cause of it will be at once suspected, when, on introducing a catheter, the position of the obstruction coincides with that of the prostate. To overcome this obsta- cle and reach the bladder, it will generally be found that some modification in the form of the instrument is necessary. As a rule, a moderate-sized, gum- elastic catheter, three or four inches longer than that required for retention arising from obstruction in other parts of the urethra, should be selected. Reference is made to the length of the instrument, as surgeons have often failed to relieve retention in prostatic cases, not from making false passages, but from the catheter being too short. It must be remembered that a large prostate may add very considerably to the length of urethra to be traversed before urine flows. Some prefer Mercier’s elbowed catheter (Fig. 1299), in Fig. 1299. — -- ' "Ifl Mercier’s sonde coudie, or elbowed catheter. which the end of the instrument is bent at a suitable angle. When the pros- tate is reached, assistance may often be rendered by the finger in the rectum lifting the end of the instrument over the obstruction ; or, again, the expedi- ent of passing down a stiff stylet, bent at an angle, along the catheter, is often successful in causing the point to surmount the enlarged lobe, and so to enter the bladder. The extent to which the bladder may be distended in cases of enlarged prostate, is often very remarkable. Several quarts of urine have been removed at a sitting, and the question as to whether the case was one of ascites or blad- der-distension, has arisen. There is a specimen in the Museum of the Liver- pool Royal Infirmary, of a large prostate with an enormously distended blad- der, which had been tapped, as for ascites. It is stated in the catalogue that twelve quarts of fluid, which turned out to be urine, were removed. It is also added that the withdrawal of the fluid was followed by hemorrhage into