(1001) ORTHOPAEDIC SURGERY: THE TREATMENT OF DEFORMITIES. BY FREDERIC R. FISHER, F.R.C.S., ASSISTANT SURGEON TO THE VICTORIA HOSPITAL FOR SICK CHILDREN, LONDON. History op Orthopaedic Surgery. Orthopaedic Surgery forms an important section of surgical science: it deals with distortions and contractions of the head, trunk, and extremities, affections which differ widely in their nature, and vary much in their method of development; its study includes a consideration of lesions of the muscular and nervous systems, and of diseases and injuries of the bones, joints, fasciae, and skin; nor is this the limit of orthopaedic practice, for a disordered con- dition of one or all of the processes of respiration, circulation, and digestion, may in some cases be present as a complication, whilst mental disturbance may give rise to, or be itself caused by, a condition of deformity. The classi- fication of such different affections under one heading is apparently unscien- tific, but the cause of this grouping is made evident when the history of orthopaedic surgery is traced. The treatment of deformities has been practised since the earliest days of surgery, but their effective relief has only been achieved within a compara- tively recent period ; until the end of the last century the only method of practice pursued was the employment of mechanical appliances, which was attended by a very small measure of success. The first advance in the direction of a more scientific mode of procedure was made by Thilenius, in 1784, who advised, and under whose direction was performed, section of the tendo Achillis in a case of talipes varus; the operation, which consisted in the free division of the tendon by an open wound, was followed by a good result. In 1804, Sartorius divided the same tendon in a boy aged thirteen, who was suffering from talipes equinus consequent upon the formation of an abscess in the calf of the leg; the operation was commenced by making an external wound four inches long, and after some dissection of the parts the tendon was divided ; further dissection was considered necessary on account of adhe- sions existing between the tendon and adjacent tissues, and, finally, forcible manipulations of the ankle-joint were practised. This operation, it is not sur- prising to read, was followed by great pain and constitutional disturbance, but the boy recovered with his foot in an improved position, though with an an- chylosed ankle-joint. Delpech, too, in 1816, treated a case of talipes equinus by section of the tendo Achillis, dividing this tendon by making two lateral incisions about one inch in length, and leaving the superficial tissues at the back of the tendon intact; this operation was followed by suppuration and sloughing of the tendon, which, although a fairly good result was ultimately obtained, probably deterred Delpech from again adopting such a method of procedure. This surgeon appears to have so far profited from his experience