URINARY CALCULUS. 258 Anything beneath this medium size is a small stone, and anything above it is a large stone. The very careful dilatations of the prostate and neck of the bladder made experimentally by Dolbeau with his ingenious dilator, have shown that the neck of the bladder cannot be distended to a diameter greater than 20-24 millimetres without the production of organic lesions of the prostate and vesi- cal neck. These lesions are single and large, or multiple and small, radiate lacerations, extending more or less deeply. Dolbeau’s experiments I have repeatedly verified upon the cadaver. Twenty-four millimetres is just short of one inch ; therefore manifestly no stone an inch in diameter, more particu- larly when surrounded by the blades of the forceps, can pass the neck of the adult bladder without determining physical lesions by laceration. I have seen a stone nearly two inches in diameter dragged through the uncut vesical neck in the median operation, by a surgeon who was obliged to use all his force in order to extract it. The patient recovered, but the exhibition was the reverse of surgical. Lacerations of the neck of the bladder are not necessarily fatal, as proved by nearly all the earlier applications of the apparatus major, in which branched dilators were used with the express object of tearing the neck of the bladder, under the impression that the parts so torn would heal better than if they had been incised. It was not until the beginning of the eighteenth century that the advantage of cutting over tearing the neck of the bladder was recog- nized (Schaeffer, 1704; Rosa, 1714). Modern surgeons entertain little or no doubt that incisions through the neck of the bladder are less harmful than the bruising, lacerating violence of sudden dilatation, whether effected by dilators from without or by vio- lence from within, in efforts to extract the stone. Hence it may be logically concluded that, for any stone an inch in diameter, or thereabouts, the neck of the bladder should be cut, and that the median operation, pure and simple, is not properly applicable under such circumstances, while either the medio- lateral, the bilateral, or the lateral operation, would be entirely appropriate. But the median operation lias a logical place. It is anatomically accurate, in that it cuts no important structure in the middle line if the bulb be spared, and that it avoids the chance of much hemorrhage. The wound generally heals promptly. The neck of the bladder, if not too much overstretched, regains its tonicity almost at once, and the patient, soon after being cut, controls his urinary evacuations nearly as well as before the operation. He is, therefore, if matters progress favorably, soon up and out, giving to the method a charm and brilliancy, both in execution and result, which are not at all as striking in any other method. But if the stone is one inch in diameter, the patient will probably do but little less promptly well, and more safely, if to the external median incision there is added a slight incision into the neck of the bladder on one or both sides. Therefore the median operation is most suited to small stones; but it has been shown by experience that such stones are most properly dealt with by litholapaxy, unless for some other reason it is desirable to perform cystotomy. This other reason is most commonly the presence of intense chronic cystitis, and a desire to furnish the bladder with entire rest by thorough drainage for some days. Such drainage is best effected by lateral lithotomy, for the reason that it overpowers the sphincter, but the bladder may also be drained by a large tube kept in through a central perineal wound. The latter method indeed is preferred by some operators for drainage when the choice is open, and when stone does not enter into the cpiestion of cystotomy at all, as in Sir Henry