64 INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTION. operation should be clone with a very small trocar and canula, or an aspirating tube, and the puncture should be made in the distended gut above the volvulus. If paracentesis fail, the bowel should be opened by an incision, and, as the disease usually affects the sigmoid flexure, left lumbar colotomy is the opera- tion to be performed. Treatment of Strangulation by a Band or Diverticulum, Internal Hernia, etc.—Here, too, opium is useful only as a palliative remedy. No time should be lost before resorting to laparotomy, and after the strangulation has been relieved by dividing between two ligatures, or excising, the constricting bands, etc., the bowel should be dealt with as in ordinary strangulated hernia— returned, if healthy; slit up or resected, and secured to the abdominal wall, if in a state of gangrene. Treatment of Chronic Obstruction.—In chronic obstruction of the bowels a great deal can be done to promote the patient’s well-being by regulating the diet—avoiding indigestible substances, and employing such food only as will not be likely to form a hard mass in the intestine. By restricting the diet to liquids, patients with stricture of the bowel have sometimes been enabled to live many years in comparative comfort, and even in cases of chronic invagination life has occasionally been prolonged for several months by atten- tion to dietetic measures. Laxatives and mild aperients are often of use in chronic obstruction, and opening enemata are frequently of great service. It is in these cases, too, that benefit is likely to be derived from the application of electricity. Treatment of Fecal Accumulations.—The most important part of the treat- ment of these cases is the persistent use of enemata, which, if thought proper, may be carbonated by the successive injection of bicarbonate-of-sodium and tartaric-acid solutions, in the way already described. Friction with ice, electricity, and massage, may all be of use, as means of increasing or supple- menting peristaltic action. The administration of metallic mercury may be tried if other measures fail. Paracentesis may be required to relieve extreme gaseous distension. Colotomy, and even laparotomy, have been employed in these cases, but, it is charitable to suppose, usually through a mistake in diagnosis. The performance of these operations in cases of fecal accumula- tion must be looked upon, as Mr.Treves justly observes, “rather as a surgical misfortune than as a recognized means of treatment.” Treatment of Intestinal Stricture.—In stricture of the small intestine, when dietetic measures, laxatives, etc., fail to give relief, operative interference is necessary. Laparotomy, followed by resection of the constricted portion of gut, is the most radical method of treatment, but when this is inadmissible, simple enterotomy may be substituted as a means of at least prolonging life. The objection to enterotomy in cases of stricture of the smaller bowel is that, from the position of the artificial anus thus formed, intestinal digestion is interfered with, and nutrition consequently suffers. When an operation is required for stricture of the large intestine, right lumbar colotomy, or, in some cases, colectomy, is the method to be adopted. Treatment of Chronic Invagination.—Persistent efforts should be made to effect reduction by the use of enemata, inflation of the bowel, abdominal taxis, etc., but if these fail laparotomy must be resorted to. If possible, the bowel should be disinvaginated; but if this cannot be done, the affected por- tion should be resected. Mr. Howse suggests that when the bowel protrudes through the anus, it should be held down with pins and then excised. He refers to a case in which this was done unwittingly by an Italian surgeon, the patient recovering, and Mr. Treves refers to several similar cases; the same plan has been successfully followed by Prof. Mikulicz (in two cases),