1134 APPENDIX. the fifth army corps, of which Surgeon (now Brevet Brigaclier-General) J. J. Milhau was so long the medical director, and which was noted for the preci- sion and thoroughness of its work. Duties of the Medical Director of a Corps—The medical ilkector of a corps is the head of the medical and ambulance departments of the corps, and he is held responsible by tbe corps commander that they shall be properly and effectively managed under all circumstances. It is therefore impossible to specify definitely his duties in every case. He should possess the confidence of his commander, and ask for instruction in all cases of doubt. He should have an office, and at least two clerks, of' whom one should be a hospital, steward. The following books should be kept, viz. : 1st. A register of all medical officers and regular hospital stewards belonging to the corps ; 2d. An endorse- ment book ; 3d. A letter and order book ; 4th. A blotter, in which are checked off the regular requisitions, and monthly reports of sick and wounded as received; 5th. A manifold writer. The following regular reports are received : 1st. Daily report of the medical inspector of the corps; 2d. The weekly report of sick and wounded ; 3d. The weekly report of the ambulance corps (in duplicate) ; 4th. The weekly report of brandy and whiskey received, issued, etc., from each brigade and from each hospital; 5th. The monthly returns of medical officers from divisions and brigades; 6th. The monthly returns of hospital stewards U. S. A.; 7th. The monthly returns of ambulance officers (in duplicate) ; 8th. Statement of hospital fund from each hospital. After engage- ments are to be transmitted to the medical director of the army : 1st. Nominal lists of wounded for transmittal; 2d. Classified returns of injuries and wounds (in duplicate) ; 3d. Aggregate mean strength of command (per regiment) ; a report of the operations of the ambulance corps. The following consolidated reports for the corps are made at stated periods to the medical director of the army: 1st. Weekly report of sick and wounded; 2d. Monthly return of medical officers; 3d. Monthly return of hospital stewards U. S. A. ; 4th. Statement of balance due hospital fund ; 5th. Record of cer- tificates of disability, and action thereon. All other reports are simply transmitted without consolidation. The following papers are referred, by order of the corps commander, to the medical director for approval, recommendation, expression of opinion, or disapproval, viz. : All tenders of resignation on account of disability ; all applications for leave of absence ; all certificates of disability for discharge, and invalid rolls when doubtful; all recom- mendations and complaints referring to the medical and ambulance departments, or affecting the health and well-being of the troops ; all applications for leave of absence or resignation of medical or ambulance officers—in fact, all papers relating to the medical department are referred to the medical director prior to the action of the general commanding. The following papers require to be examined and acted upon by the medical director: All requisitions for medical and hospital supplies, and all requisitions and estimates for supplies for the ambulance corps. Written circulars and instructions from the medical director of the army and from the surgeon-general should either in whole or part be promptly published to the surgeons-in-chief of divisions and surgeons-in- chief of separate commands. The health and welfare of the troops, as well as the comfort and proper care of the sick and wounded, should receive the unceasing attention of the medical director. It therefore becomes his duty to ascertain, through the medical in- spector and the surgeons-in-chief of divisions, and from his own observation, the existence of irregularities and of deficiencies in the hospitals or in the command, and he must issue the necessary instructions to have the one corrected and the other supplied. In matters of defective police, bad drainage, unhealthy camp grounds, insufficient shelter, improper or damaged food, etc., he should first call the attention of the medical officers to the fact and suggest remedies ; but if these suggestions be not promptly attended to, a written report with recommendations should be made without delay to the corps com- mander. Special attention must be given to the keeping up of supplies, both medical and hospital. Circulars should be issued from time to time, giving information to the medical officers as to what articles can be obtained, and specifying the manner of obtain- ing them. The ambulance corps being under the direction of the medical director, the ambu- lances and everything connected with them claim a full share of his attention. In con- junction with the chief ambulance officer he must therefore see that nothing is neglected