850 INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS OF THE BONES. produces varying effects. Intense and destructive at the point touched, a little further off it leads to absorption of the calcareous matter, and at a distance still further removed from its point of departure causes immediate plastic processes. Let us take an example: if a foreign body is introduced into the medullary canal of the diaphysis of a long bone of a young animal, a focus of suppu- ration is formed at its site ; the medullary substance in contact with it is destroyed or transformed into purulent granulations, and the bony laminse in contact with it become more or less necrosed. But at about a centimetre beyond the point of suppuration, the medulla is harder and begins to ossify; in the bone, beyond the necrosed lamina, there is rarefaction, the canals of Havers being enlarged; under the periosteum, the irritation being still more feeble provokes secondarily a hyperplastic process, which continues and soon manifests itself by a considerable increase in the thickness of the bone. The new subperiosteal mass sometimes attains a thickness of from seven to eight centimetres, and ensheathes the whole of the old diaphysis. This indirect irritation of the periosteum is more fruitful of ossification than direct irritation, which is apt frequently to pass its limits and induce suppu- ration. This is a fact which it is important not to forget in interpreting the phenomena which accompany regeneration of bone, and which we shall return to hereafter in connection with necrosis. The same physiological fact is observed in the treatment of pseudarthroses by the seton. When a false joint is traversed, that is to say, the seat of an ununited fracture, suppuration is provoked along the course of the seton, and even the osteoid products already formed may disappear in its neighborhood ; but at a little distance, and all around, in all the ossifiable tissues, there occurs a hyperplasia which results in the formation of osseous tissue, and in this way consolidation of the fracture is secured. Yictorin Ollier1 has well demon- strated the influence of different degrees of irritation upon the course of the process of ossification, and has shown experimentally that, this process may be hastened or made to retrograde according to the intensity and permanence of the irritation. I shall mention hereafter, in speaking of the influence of osteitis upon the growth of bones, the varied effects of irritation of the epiphyseal car- tilage, according as it is direct or indirect. Let me only mention here that persistent and moderate irritation of one of the elements of bone manifests itself in a more abundant proliferation of the organs of growth, and finally by hypertrophy of the bone in length or in thickness, provided that it does not act directly upon the epiphyseal cartilage. Lacerations of the perios- teum, bruises of the medulla, the various wounds of bone in the middle of the diaphysis in young subjects, provoke indirectly irritation of the physiological zone of proliferation, which is soon manifested by an increased length of the part. The processes of experimental osteitis, and those of traumatic osteitis in man, are considerably influenced by septic agents and the general state of health of the subject. A traumatism which will provoke only hyperplastic processes and increase of medullary ossification in a healthy individual, will produce a suppurative inflammation of the medulla, and processes which are fruitless so far as ossification is concerned, in one who is ill or whose nutrition is im- paired. It is necessary then to consider, in determining the causes which vary the course of osteitis, not only the degree and the mode of irritation, but also the physiological and pathological nature of the soil; that is to say, the state of the patient’s constitution and general health. 1 Viet. Ollier, Du cal et <le ses modifications sous l’influence de l’irritation. These de Mont- pellier, 1864.