66 INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTION. ferity), though Hevin,1 who wrote against the operation in the last century,2 declares that the passage has been misinterpreted, and that Praxagoras merely taught the proper use of the knife in cases of strangulated hernia. The passage is no doubt an obscure one, but Hevin seems to me to have still further darkened counsel by his interpretation of it. Praxagoras, Cadi us Aurelianus says, employed emetics until he caused the vomiting of feces ; some, after vomiting, he bled, and tilled with wind through the anus, as advised by Hippocrates ; and again, following Hippocrates, ordered the giving of sweet wine, etc. He then adds : “ Some, in whom the intestine which the Greeks called the blind gut had, being tilled with much fecal matter, slipped into the scrotum, he, pressing the bowels with his hands, vexed with great shaking. In some, again, the above-named remedies having been exhausted, he advised that the belly should be divided even to the pubes (dividendum ventrem probed pubetenus); he said also, coming to impudent (protervam) sur- gery, that the rectum3 should be divided, and sewed up again when the feces had been withdrawn.” The first sentence quoted, no doubt indicates a rough kind of taxis in cases of scrotal hernia, but the second seems to me, by every fair interpretation of the text, to refer not merely to cases of hernia, but to cases of the “ iliac passion” generally. Certainly the ordinary operation for scrotal hernia does not consist in dividing the belly even to the pubes. There is no evidence, however, that Praxagoras ever himself performed the operation, and the next reference to it appears to date back no further than the latter part of the seventeenth century, when Paul Barbette, a sur- geon of Amsterdam, after describing the symptoms, and pointing out the often hopeless character, of intussusception, asks4 * “ whether it would not be better, having made a dissection of the muscles and peritoneum, to take the intestine with the fingers and draw it out, than to abandon the patient to certain death ?” Commenting upon this passage, Bonetus6 gives the details of what must be considered the first recorded case of laparotomy for intussus- ception. The patient was a “ Baroness L—,” the operator was a young army surgeon, and the operation was entirely successful. A second successful case occurred in the practice of the celebrated Nuck (who, however, did not operate himself, but called in for the purpose an unnamed hut “ most skilful surgeon”), and is narrated in the Inaugural Thesis of Dr. Velse.6 The intus- susception in this case appears to have been of the chronic variety, and at the operation the bowels were found neither yet inflamed, nor adherent (inflammata necdum, nec coalita)” The patient survived the operation twenty years. Other laparotomies for intussusception were recorded by Ohle (1810), Fuchsius (1825), Gerson (1828), Wilson (1835), Hauff (1842,) Pirogotf (1852), Spencer Wells (1863), Laroyenne (1870), Weinlecbner (1872), Athol Johnson (1873), Jonathan Hutchinson (1873), and John Duncan (1874). Of these fourteen cases, which I analyzed in 1874,7 five ended in recovery and nine in death; a mortality up to that date of less than 64 per cent., or, if the cases recorded in this century only be considered, of exactly 75 per cent., a death-rate which, large as it is, has unfortunately not grown less as the operation has been more frequently performed. 1 Mem. de l’Acad. de Chirurgie, tome iv. p. 264. Paris, 1819. 2 In a posthumous memoir, however, published in 1836, H6vin took a diametrically opposite view of this question, and strongly advocated the operation in certain cases. See Ducros, Archives Gen. de Medecine, Aout, 1838, p. 461. 3 M. Hdvin’s suggestion that perhaps the expression rectum intestinum, in this passage, does not mean the rectum, seems hardly worthy of contradiction. 4 Anatom. Pract.,lib. iv. cap. i. 6 Sepulchretum, tom. ii. pag. 228. Genevse, 1700. 6 Hallerus, Disputat. Anatom. Select., tom. vii. pag. 126. Gottingae, 1751. 7 Loc. cit.