1047 GENU VALGUM. its respective merits. Much depends upon the situation of the bone and its anatomical relationship; when near the surface and with no adjacent structures which are likely to be injured, the chisel is perhaps to be preferred to the saw; but when the bone is more deeply situated and has to be reached through a layer of muscles, and care has to be taken to keep the cutting instrument within a well-defined course, the saw is a much safer tool to employ, because it is more completely under the command of the operator; moreover, the saw is so light and handy that it conveys more information to the sense of touch than does the heavier and more clumsy osteotome. Whether these operations are entitled to be described as strictly subcuta- neous, is an open question; in dividing the tibia, for instance, with the osteo- tome and mallet, more can hardly be claimed than that the external wound is a very small one, and much less in extent than the deeper section which is made in the bone, for there is not here sufficient superficial tissue to act as a packing to the chisel, and to prevent the entrance of air to the deeper tissues, the general appreciation of the risk of which occurrence is shown by the fact that most authorities advise that so-called antiseptic precautions should be adopted when operating. When, however, the bone is more deeply situated, and the small saw is used and passed through a track only just large enough to admit it, the surrounding tissues closely embrace it and prevent any air from entering, thus rendering the operation a strictly subcutaneous one. In the above description of the various methods of treatment, reference has been made chiefly to rachitic curvature of the bones of the leg, and it is not neces- sary to further enlarge upon the general subject by giving the details of treat- ment necessary in curvature of the other long bones of the extremities, for the same general principles are applicable in all cases. One point is, however, deserving of notice with regard to the development of this affection, viz., as to how far rickets and curvature of the bones may occur independently one of the other. That the former frequently exists without the latter, is very certain, whilst it not unfrequently happens that children have acquired cur- vature of the bones of the leg who present no indications of the rachitic taint. I believe that the bones may be bent by the mere pressure exercised by the weight of the body, just as the arch of the foot may be broken down to a condition of valgus, and that this condition of curvature may be developed at any period of life between infancy and the completion of growth. Genu Valgum. Genu valgum, or knock-knee, is, like curvature of the bones, usually associated with rickets; it is therefore commonly met with amongst the poorer classes in England, and the two deformities are frequently developed in the same individual. Rickets is not the only source of genu valgum: it .may also result from debility, from mechanical causes, and from muscular contraction ; but as the deformity presents much the same external appearances in all con- ditions, the rachitic type may be selected for descriptive purposes. The nature of distortion present in a severe case of rachitic genu valgum, is illustrated in Fig. 1495, the subject being a boy aged sixteen years. The most noticeable feature of the deformity is the altered relationship of the leg with the thigh, from which the affection derives its title; instead of holding its normal position, the leg is deflected outwards, so that in a case of double deformity, such as that here illustrated, the ankles are widely sepa- rated from one another. This eversion of the legs is not so evident when the subject stands in the position ordinarily assumed by those affected with knock-knee, for the thighs are carried obliquely inwards so as to bring the