128 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE RECTUM. appetite is good, his bowels are regular, and lie is capable of bearing fatigue and enjoying exercise. Internal Hemorrhoids. — Although during pregnancy external venous hemorrhoids are frequent, and usually pass away after labor, the reverse is the.case with regard to internal hemorrhoids ; these most frequently make their appearance after parturition, when all the parts are relaxed and uterine involution is going on. I will not attempt to give any reason for this pecu- liarity ; I only state a fact which I have repeatedly observed. As regards the other causes of internal hemorrhoids, they are practically those which also produce external hemorrhoids. In addition, hereditary influence, and diseases of the genito-urinary system, must be included. I do not share M. Verneuil’s view that the boutonnieres musculaires, de- scribed in the section on anatomy, play an important part in the etiology of the disease which we are now considering, mainly on two grounds: first, because the presence of arteries in hemorrhoidal growths is "not thus accounted for; and secondly, because it seems to me that the contraction of the circular and longitudinal muscular fibres of the bowel favors, and does not retard, the upward flow of the blood ; the button-hole apertures through the muscular walls of the rectum really play the part of valves to support the column of blood going to the liver, and in place of causing stasis pre- vent it, by opposing regurgitation in congested states of that organ. As regards the structure and appearance of internal hemorrhoids, three broadly-marked kinds may be observed : viz., the capillary hemorrhoid, the arterial hemorrhoid, and the venous hemorrhoid ; at times all perfectly dis- tinct, at other times united in the same patient. Hemorrhoids of the first variety I should describe as small, florid, raspberry- like looking tumors, having a granular, spongy surface, and bleeding on the slightest touch ; these piles are often situated rather high in the bowel. Al- though so small, the quantity of blood lost from them may be very consider- able. In structure they consist almost ent irely of hypertrophic capillary vessels and spongy connective tissue, and therefore I think a good name for them is the capillary hemorrhoid. They resemble arterial nsevi very closely indeed in their microscopic structure, except that they are covered externally by a very much thinner membrane, and consequently are readily made to bleed. Ultimately, the main vessels feeding the growth increase in diameter, and the areolar tissue becomes thickened and more abundant. An exudation of lymph obliterates the capillaries, and so arrests bleeding from the surface. These changes I believe to be the result of slow processes of inflammation. In this way most commonly hemorrhoids of the second variety, arterial in- ternal hemorrhoids, are formed. They may be thus distinguished: The tumors vary in size, attain sometimes very considerable dimensions, glisten on their surface, are slippery to the touch, hard, and vascular, and if scratched bleed freely, the blood being bright-red and issuing by jets. If the finger is passed into the bowel it will feel entering into the upper part of each hemor- rhoid an artery, pulsating with as much force as the radial, and in many cases of a calibre but little less. On dissecting one of these tumors, it will be found to consist of numerous arteries and veins, freely anastomosing, tor- tuous, and sometimes dilated into branches, and of a stroma of cell-growth and connective-tissue, the latter most abounding. The third variety is the venous internal hemorrhoid, and in this the venous system predominates. The tumors are often very large. I have seen them quite the size of a hen’s egg. They are bluish or livid in color, and they are hardish; the surface may be smooth and shiny, or pseudo-cutaneous; they prolapse very readily, and are often constantly down; they do not usually