494 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE URETHRA. thickness of the glans causes real inconvenience, especially in regard to ejaculation. The new urethra, devoid of erectile tissue in all its penile portion and having very slightly resistant walls, cannot do its share in the discharge of the semen, which escapes by an opening likewise flaccid, and situated moreover underneath the glans. In these conditions, projection of the semen must be almost wanting, or at least must take place in a vicious direction, and consequently the chances of fecundation must be very limited. On the contrary, if there is at the extremity of the penis a portion of the canal hollowed out of the substance of the glans, the spermatic fluid, travers- ing on its issue an orifice with walls rendered rigid and resistant by erection, will be projected further and in a suitable direction. This restoration of the meatus may be practised at the same time as the operation designed to straighten the penis, as is shown in Fig. 1342. This mode of procedure, which may shorten the whole duration of the treatment, has the further advantage of furnishing a sort of starting point for the new canal, and of supplying a support to the catheter around which the canal should be moulded. The following is the way in which the operation is executed (Fig. 1343). A commencement is made by vivifying at their lower Fig. 1343. * Restoration of the urinary meatus. parts, the two lips bb' of the depression which represents the meatus, and by placing between these two lips a small catheter tip, over which the vivified parts are united by one or two points of suture. If the depression be too shallow to permit the formation of a large enough meatus, two small lateral incisions aa!, or a median incision «, made in the substance of the glans, will make it possible to introduce the tip of a catheter of proper size and to apply the suture below it. In regard to the formation of a new canal, the following is the method of procedure which I have devised: The penis being held up (Fig. 1344b there is made on itslower surface, on each side of the median line and some milli- metres outside of this line, a longitudinal incision ab, a'b', extending from the base of the glans to within one centimetre, or even half a centimetre, of the hypospadic opening. "When this is done, the internal lip of the incision is to be slightly dissected up, so as to be inclined inward over the catheter, but without attempting to cover it entirely. On the other hand, the external lip of each incision is to be dissected freely, so as to draw toward the median line the skin of the lateral parts of the penis. The cutaneous surface of the inner flaps is thus turned toward the cavity of the canal, whilst their raw surface is turned toward the out- side and covered by the raw surface of the two external flaps. In this way the catheter is in reality not wholly covered by a cutaneous surface, but I have been able to convince myself that no Fig. 1344.