606 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. induration, stricture, and calculus, a common cause is latent tuberculosis of the testis, which is liable to be overlooked, as it does not present any well- marked symptoms ; but the vesicuke seminales and prostate, in some cases, may be swollen and tender. Orchitis follows in a certain number of cases after lithotomy, lithotrity, or other causes of prostatic irritation. Dr. A. Gordon1 met with orchitis about once in fifty lithotomy cases. Mr. Hutchinson has noted its occurrence once in forty cases. The young are less liable, to suffer than adults or the aged. In six cases the left testicle was attacked, in four the right, and in four cases the orchitis was double. The inflammation runs down the cord, and in five cases out of the fourteen, acute pain was followed by the formation of pus in the body of the testicle, requiring immediate evacuation. In patients debilitated by disease or old age, acute orchitis may lead to gangrene of the testicle. In one case of the interesting series collected by Dr. Hanot,2 of orchitis occurring during an attack of typhoid fever, an abscess of the scrotum formed and discharged a reddish-gray material, which the microscope proved to be made up of seminal tubes. The testicle wasted to one-third of its original size. Spontaneous gangrene of the testicle, occurring in a previously healthy patient, Is rarely met with. Professor Volkmann3 has reported a case of acute hemorrhagic infarction of the tes- ticle terminating in spontaneous gangrene. A boy aged fifteen, in good health, was -seized with sudden, severe pain in the abdomen, attended with very acute constitutional disturbance, but the abdomen was lax and free from tenderness. The whole scrotum was very hard and oedematous, the left half being deeply congested, very hot, and ten- der. As it was thought that the tunica vaginalis had suppurated, an incision was made through the oedematous scrotum. The tunica vaginalis was of a dark-blue color, and ■contained a tablespoonful of dark blood. The surface of the testicle, which was five times its normal size, was smooth and glistening, and of a dark red color. The surface of the epididymis was also congested, and the plexus pampiniformis was filled with coagulated blood; the thrombosed veins were seen hanging down within the sac of the tunica vaginalis. The operation was done antiseptically, and the wound remained aseptic, but the testicle became necrosed and exfoliated. Microscopic examination showed that the hemorrhagic infarction had not been preceded by inflammation. No wandering processes and no accumulation of lymphoid elements could be seen—only vessels dilated and plugged by red blood corpuscles, with here and there evidences of extravasation of blood. Sir Wm. Lawrence mentions an instance in which the testis and spermatic cord sloughed after an operation for strangulated inguinal hernia, although it was not known that the spermatic artery had been divided. He thinks that, owing to the alteration in the course of the cord, it might have been unconsciously divided by the operator. I have given elsewhere the particulars of the case of a boy whose testicle sloughed after the operation for the radical cure of varicocele by antiseptic incision, ligature, and division of some of the veins. I have also referred to a case in which a testicle, retained in the inguinal canal, was acutely inflamed and became gangrenous. Encysted Abscess of Testis.—Deposits of pus are at times encysted in the testicle, and occasionally give rise to sharp attacks of pain. Pytentic deposits are very rarely met with in the testicle.4 Inflammatory Atrophy of Testis.—It is probable that the contraction of the material effused in orchitis constricts all the vessels and the tubes of the tes- 1 Medical Times and Gazette, vol. ii. p. 126. 1871. 2 Arch. Gen. de Med., 7e ser., t. ii. 1878. 3 Berliner klin. Wochenschrift, No. 53, 1877. 4 Wilks and Moxon, Path. Lectures, 2d ed., page 533.