FOREIGN BODIES IN THE BLADDER. 331 tion to the evidence afforded by the catlieter and the nature of the injury,, were, the tumefaction of the perineum and fulness felt in front of the bowel on introducing the huger into the rectum. This, taken in conjunction with the fact that no urine could be obtained by the catheter, justified the conclu- sion arrived at and the practice adopted. As already stated, this case brings into prominence that principle in treatment which is paramount in the general management of injuries of this kind. There is another part of the viscus which is also uncovered by peritoneum where we are in the habit of tapping it with impunity. I allude to that portion of it which is situated immediately above the pubis and below the anterior reflection of the serous membrane. Here also it may give way with- out permitting urine to escape into the abdominal davity. A typical exam- ple of this class (the only one published to my knowledge) was recorded by the late Professor Syme.1 The course taken by the urine, and the treatment by incision which was successfully adopted, were in correspondence with the analogous features in the case quoted from my own practice. It lias been stated that laceration of the bladder may occur without extrava- sation of urine ensuing as a consequence. I do not see what positive evi- dence we can have of this: the nature of the injury, and possibly luematuria, might suggest it. Should it be suspected in any case that a partial rupture had taken place, which, by some means or other, such, for instance, as the presence of a clot in the wound, or the exudation of inflammatory material, had become occluded, I should not feel disposed either to pass a catheter, provided that there was no retention, or to retain one. Reliance might under these circumstances be placed on nature completing safely what she had begun so well, aiding her perhaps in keeping the parts quiet, as in the case of wounded intestine, by the administration of opium. Should it be necessary to use a catheter, a soft rubber one should be selected, as answering every purpose, without exposing the patient to the risk of opening up a wound which might be healing by adhesion, or occluded by clot. In addition to those measures which have been urged as likely to avert peritoneal inflammation by directly dealing with the causes most frequently provoking it, prompt means must, on any signs of its occurrence, be taken to limit its extent and diminish its severity. These consist in the use of sooth- ing applications to the abdomen and the free administration of opium. I have found nothing to give greater relief to the feeling of tension about the parts which these patients generally complain of, than local depletion with leeches, followed by the application of a hot flaxseed poultice. These meas- ures must, however, be regarded as subsidiary to those having for their object the prevention of urine making its way into the peritoneal cavity, or becom- ing extravasated and retained amid the cellular tissue in relation with the bladder. Foreign Bodies in the Bladder. A very miscellaneous collection might be made of various articles which by accident or design have found their way into the bladder. The records of surgery furnish instances of pins, needles, catheters, pencil-cases, tobacco- pipe stems, wires, feathers, shoe-strings, and grass-heads, being so located. When a foreign body becomes lodged in the bladder, one of three things will most likely happen to it: if small, it may be spontaneously expelled during the act of micturition; if it remain, it may possibly form the nucleus of a stone, which will generally be phosphatic; or by exercising pressure on the • Contributions to the Pathology and Practice of Surgery, p. 332. Edinburgh, 1848.