51 CHRONIC INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTION. Chronic Intestinal Obstruction. Chronic obstruction of the bowels may be caused by several conditions, the most important being (1) accumulations and impactions of fecal matter; (2) organic constrictions of the bowel, whether of a fibrous or cicatricial char- acter or due to presence of malignant growths; (3) chronic invaginations; (4) inflammatory changes in the walls of the gut, and especially in its peri- toneal covering, the indirect result of external violence ; (5) chronic peritonitis, often tuberculous in origin; and (6) the pressure exercised by abdominal abscesses and tumors external to the intestine. Fecal accumulations occur most frequently in the large intestine, and particularly in the caecum and ascending colon. When habitual constipation reaches its highest degree, a portion of the bowel loses altogether the power of peristaltic movement (ileus paralyticus), and fresh fecal matter being constantly pushed into the affected segment by the action of the bowel above, the dis- tension continually increases, and ultimately rupture of some of the muscular fibres ensues, or ulcers may form (stercoral ulcers), leading to chronic peri- tonitis or to cicatricial constriction, or, more rarely, to perforation followed by acute peritonitis and death. Fecal accumulations are more common in women than in men, and are usually met with in those who have passed the middle period of life. They are not uncommon among the insane, and in hysterical subjects. Stricture of the Bowel.-—Intestinal stenosis may be in some cases con- genital, but then, if obstruction should occur, it would probably be acute, from the sudden occlusion of the narrowed gut by a plug of fecal matter or a foreign body. Acquired constriction, which alone should receive the name of stricture, is developed gradually, and is therefore more apt to cause chronic obstruction, though it may give rise to the acute variety in the same manner as the congenital defect just referred to. In stricture of the bowel, properly so called, the parts involved are the mucous and submucous layers of the intestine, and, as already mentioned, the stricture may be fibrous or cicatri- cial, or due to the presence of a malignant neoplasm. Cicatricial stricture may result from the contraction which follows the healing of intestinal ulcers, from the changes following strangulated hernia, from those following the separation by sloughing of an invaginated portion of gut, and, possibly, from certain lesions of a traumatic character. The ulcers which are most apt to lead to the formation of stricture are the dysenteric, the catarrhal, the ster- coral, and the syphilitic. The dysenteric and stercoral ulcers are met with only in the large intestine; the catarrhal and syphilitic also occur in the lesser bowel. A portion of intestine which has been involved in a strangu- lated hernia may become the seat of stricture, as the result of ulceration or gangrene, and, as already mentioned, stricture may possibly follow the slough- ing of the intussusceptum in invagination. Stricture may also result from partial rupture of the gut as the result of external violence. Malignant stric- ture of the intestine is commonly due to the presence of a cylindrical-celled or columnar-celled carcinoma,1 a form of tumor usually classified with the epitheliomata. It may occur in any portion of the bowel, but is most often observed in the large intestine. The bowel above the constricted portion, in either variety of stricture, becomes much dilated and generally thickened, though immediately above 1 See Vol. IV. p. 632, supra; and Plate XX. Fig. 19.