1095 CONSTRUCTION AND ORGANIZATION OF HOSPITALS. pure air, cleanliness, good management, and simplicity of construction, which makes easy all the rest. Against the theory of “hospitalism,” the advocates of which would lead us to build only small, temporary, and destructible pavilion-barracks of one story, we may urge with truth that good work can be done with proper and even better economy, and with greater comfort, in more permanent structures; but this does not prove that it is as well to have all patients in large wards, or that we may return to block buildings, and use live stories as well as one. Granting all that may be claimed for surgical antisepsis by the use of germi- cides, this by no means lessens the usefulness and the need of simplicity in hospital construction. We must have good ventilation, which is easiest to get in a one-story pavilion, attainable in one of two stories for some classes of patients, but difficult in higher buildings. Experience in managing ele- vated wards in such buildings, with their inconveniences and dangers, and the difficulties of applying and working in them effective methods of warming and ventilating, and on the other hand the better practical and more easily gained results in one-storied and two-storied pavilions, all teach the same thing. Thus we arrive at the practical conclusions already stated, and can decide upon the proper combination of simplicity and permanency of construction. Location and Site of Hospitals.—There are conflicting indications to he met in choosing the location of a general hospital. Primarily, it is desir- able to give it a central and convenient situation for those who will use it the most; and the advantage of ready attendance by medical officers and students, should be considered. But such conveniences must be largely yielded for the sake of healthiness of site, which should be somewhat ele- vated, and upon dry gravelly or sandy soil, if possible, for good drainage. There should be sufficient space for the buildings to receive unobstructed sunlight, and the prevailing summer winds, which should be free from any insalubrity of marshy lands, impure streams, offensive trades, or collections of unhealthy habitations. The essential conditions can sometimes be found to a satisfactory degree, in or near the more thickly inhabited portions of the town or city. In this case, if a whole square cannot be set apart for the purpose, there should be a free space on all sides of the hospital, for at least twice the distance of the height of the highest surrounding buildings. Common sense must decide the choice when there are strong reasons for selecting a suburban site. If this be imperative, a small receiving hospital, for the temporary care of the wounded or very sick, may be established at a convenient place within the city. Modern means of easy carriage by ambulance, make this plan more practicable than it was formerly considered. Hospitals for convalescents, incurables, imbeciles, etc., should be placed outside of towns. As a general rule, according to the Surgical Society of Paris, the hospital should not contain more than eighty patients to the acre of its grounds, or 540 feet to each patient; one hundred to the acre, according to Galton, is the English usage; Toilet proposes a maximum of forty patients to the acre. Materials and Foundations of Hospitals.—Permanent hospitals, in most localities and climates, should be built of durable materials—brick or stone, or both together. Such buildings may be used a long time, and require little repairing to maintain their comfort, and they are comfortable in all climates and seasons. When economy in first cost is imperative, as in small country or cottage hospitals, well-constructed buildings of wood will do very well. Some very good army post-hospitals, and marine hospitals, of a semi- permanent character, have been built of wood. Large hospitals may well