SCROFULO-TUBERCULOUS AFFECTIONS OF BONES. 929 destruction, practice and experimentation have demonstrated their useless- ness up to the present time. I will only speak of experimentation. MM. Parrot and Martin1 have subjected tuberculous matter to the action of the various known parasiticides. They have reached the conclusion that the vitality of the microbe, comparable to reviviscent animals, is considerable, greater than that of the microbe of charbon ; and that in therapeutic doses the known antiseptic agents, mentioned above, are incapable of destroying it. Heating to 100° C. (212° P.), and above, alone sterilizes the tuberculous virus. “ The sole agent which germs cannot resist for an instant, whatever they may be, is fire.’'2 This remedy is obviously inapplicable; to internal lesions. With the object of preserving from contagion persons who live with tuberculous patients, MM. Parrot and Martin propose to subject, from time to time, the furniture and the flooring to a current of air heated to about 125° C. (257° F.), by means of tubes to conduct it as irrigating tubes conduct water. It is to be feared that over-logical minds might propose from time to time to burn the house. In this case barrack-hospitals would become the ideal. We must acknowledge that therapeutics and prophylaxis are as yet of no use, and that only hygiene and good feeding enable us to contend, often indeed with advantage, against the tuberculous virus. II. Local Treatment.—General treatment, the outlines of which I have just traced, aids powerfully in the cure of tuberculous osteopathies, and by itself sometimes secures it, but not always; and it is usually necessary that local treatment, direct treatment of the external lesion, should lend its assis- tance. Before speaking of local treatment, I ought to say what is the natural course of external tubercles, either in an otherwise healthy subject, or in one with pulmonary tuberculosis: (1) They may, as Charles ISTelaton says, “recover by surrounding themselves with a fibrous new formation or by themselves undergoing a true sclerosis, gradually eliminating the degenerated and casei- fled products; (2) they may remain stationary, at whatever stage they may be; (3) they may pursue an extending and locally invading course. But, in all these three cases, the disease, which at first was local, may become gene- ralized. When surgical lesions develop in a patient who already has tuber- cles in his lungs, the same terminations may be seen, although here the spon- taneous course toward recovery is less frequent.”3 External tuberculosis may end in spontaneous recovery, whether present alone or accompanied by similar lesions in the viscera. If spontaneous recovery takes place by absorp- tion of the tuberculous masses and by sclerosis of the connective tissue which takes their place, or by elimination of degenerated and caseified products, the surgeon ought to endeavor: 1st, to favor absorption and sclerosis of the tuber- culous masses by substitutive irritation ; and if he cannot obtain this, 2d, to hasten the elimination of the degenerated products by removing them, or to destroy them where they are found, at the same time provoking a frank inflammation of the surrounding tissues which are "still healthy, or which have undergone retrogressive modifications to only a slight degree. (1) Means designed, to favor absorption of the products of tuberculous osteopathies. ■ -Encysted tubercle is the only form in which recovery can occur without elimination. The absorption of abscesses by congestion, of vertebral or other origin, cannot be denied. The majority of surgeons have observed the disappearance ot ossifluent abscesses without operative interference, espe- 1 Recherches experimentales ayant pour but de transformer le tuberoule vrai on infectueux en corps 6tra,nger inerte ; 2e memoire (Revue de Medecine, Oct. 1883). 2 Ibid., p. 828. VOL. VI.—59 3 Op cit., p. 140.