1040 ORTHOPAEDIC SURGERY. again extending it ; the posterior muscles should also he well ruhbed and shampooed to excite their contractible power. For the instrumental treat- ment, any form of appliance that will keep the foot extended on the leg may be used ; the splint employed in the treatment of the second stage of con- genital varus answers very well, the foot being extended by means of the cog-wheel which connects the foot-plate with the leg-piece. Non-congenital calcaneus is usually the result of paralysis of the extensor muscles of the foot, and is of a much more serious nature than the congeni- tal deformity, for it combines distortion of the foot itself with altered relationship of the foot and the leg. The character of this affection is shown in Fig. 1493; the heel is depressed, and ap- Pig. 1493. pears to be much lengthened, owing to the forma- tion of a cushion of hardened skin and thickened cellular tissue on its under surface; the arch of the foot is deepened ; and the heel and the ball of the great toe are approximated. In this condition of deformity the os calcis is greatly changed in posi- tion, its long axis being almost vertical instead of horizontal, and its posterior surface pointing al- most directly downwards ; the astragalus is carried under the tibia, and its superior articular surface is directed backwards, the head of the bone being turned upwards. This is much the same con- dition of displacement that occurs in congenital calcaneus; in the paralytic form, however, the fore- part of the foot does not retain its position on the Paralytic calcaneus. (After posterior section, but becomes bent downwards, Adams-) and thus causes the depression of the arch before mentioned. The cause of the foot itself becoming •changed in shape in paralytic calcaneus, and not in the congenital variety, depends upon the different manner in which the two conditions are devel- oped. In paralytic calcaneus all the muscles of the leg are found to be affected, the gastrocnemius and soleus being always extremely wasted, whilst the anterior muscles retain more of their contractile power ; the lieel thus first becomes depressed from the loss of action of the extensor muscles, and the forepart of the foot is then partially raised by contraction of the flexors, but not to an extent sufficient to correspond to the depression of the heel; the foot is thus bent upon itself at the transverse tarsal joint, being shortened, and its arch abnormally depi’essed. In congenital calcaneus the development of the deformity originates from excited contraction of the tlexor muscles, which draws the foot up towards the leg, and at the same time depresses the heel; and from the mobility of the ankle-joint this depression can be carried to a degree which allows the whole foot to accommodate itself to the acting force without causing distortion at the tarsal joint. Non-congenital calcaneus, the result of spasmodic contraction of the flexor muscles acquired after birth, exactly resembles the condition present in the congenital variety ; it does not attain to the same degree of severity, on account of the movement of flexion at the ankle being more limited at the age at which it is developed. A con- dition of deformity of the foot very similar to paralytic calcaneus, is not unfre- quently met with as the result of mismanagement of paralytic equinus. If in a ease of equinus of the nature illustrated in Fig. 1466, the tendo Achillis is divided before the contraction in the sole of the foot is relieved, and from want of care the tendon is lengthened too much, the heel becomes depressed, and the forepart of the foot is elevated as in the case of paralytic calcaneus;