URINARY CALCULUS. 250 large spur at tlie heel of the male blade, and comparative breadth of the female blade, to insure against impaction. I have already recorded the impaction of a Reliquet instrument in my hands while performing old-fashioned lithotrity. In litholapaxy this accident has not occurred to me, and with the instruments which I now use, it is impos- sible. Coulson, at the meeting of the International Medical Congress, in London, stated that on two occasions a lithotrite had broken in his hands. One of these cases was reported in the Lancet.1 The instrument was a Bigelow litho- trite, defectively made. The collar holding on the male blade came off. The jaws had to be freed from debris by percussion, after which the lithotrite was withdrawn, no harm being done, and the operation was concluded with a fenestrated lithotrite. Several cases of slight clogging of some of the earlier Bigelow instruments, due to defects in structure, have been reported (Wynkoop, Stein).2 One of my lithotrites, of Tiemann’s make, in the hands of Dr. Rockwell, of Brooklyn, broke at the heel of the male blade upon a large oxalate-of-lime stone which was too hard to be crushed. The patient was cut at once successfully. I was present at an operation at the hands of Dr. Weir, when a Bigelow lithotrite broke at the collar under exactly similar circumstances. The patient was then cut, and successfully relieved of a large oxalate-of-lime stone. Alan P. Smith3 reports a case of serious clogging of a lithotrite in the bladder of an old man. The instrument was of the Civiale model, made by Robert and Collin. After it had clogged, no efforts made at the handle could free the jaws, and consequently the instrument was forcibly extracted, when it was found that the jaws were separated to the extent of three-fourths of an inch ; yet no evil result followed in this case. Aguew,4 of Philadelphia, refers to one instance in his knowledge, where a lithotrite could not be closed on account of some defect in the button which regulated the screw. As a consequence of withdrawing it with the blades apart, injuries ensued which proved fatal. Should an instrument clog badly, it seems to me that it would be proper to cut the patient at once by the median section upon the lithotrite, dilate the neck of the bladder, and bring out the jaws of the lithotrite in the wound of the perineum, where they might be cleared. Such a course would be devoid of any considerable danger. If the jaw of a lithotrite should break within the bladder, it might be extracted by using a smaller lithotrite, or the knife might be resorted to with propriety. Complications occurring after Litholapaxy.—After litholapaxy, the same complications may arise as have been already set down as possible after litho- trity (urinary fever, retention, hemorrhage, cystitis, epididymitis—or even surgical kidney, possibly pyaemia, septicaemia, etc.—graver complications which will be considered under the head of complications of lithotomy). There is not, however, as much likelihood of complication after litholapaxy as after lithotfity, because the former operation is devoid of one great source of danger, namely, that arising from the repeated injuries inflicted upon the bladder by the sharp fragments left behind between the sittings. The slighter complications are not uncommon (urinary fever, mild cystitis, epididymitis) ; the others very rare. The complications most to be dreaded are pyelitis and surgical kidney, due to already diseased kidneys, and failing vitality in an old patient, when the risks of an operation have been assumed 1 Lancet, Nov. 27, 1880, p. 853. 2 Keyes, Am. Journ. Med. Sci., April, 1880. 8 Maryland Medical Journal, January 2, 1882. 4 Op cit., vol. ii. p. 661.