Ill FISSURE AND PAINFUL IRRITABLE ULCER OF THE RECTUM. skin, it is better to remove that with a pair of scissors, for by so doing the healing process is greatly expedited ; the small polypoid growth also, so often found in fissure, must be at the same time snipped off, and a fistula, if such exist, laid open. If the fissure is quite dorsal, the fibres of the muscle should Fig. 1188. Fig. 1189. Anal speculum. Four-bladed anal speculum. be divided somewhat laterally. A small piece of cotton-wool should be placed in the wound, and allowed to remain for from twenty-four to forty- eight hours. The bowels must be kept confined for two or three days after the operation. Usually there is no occasion to keep the patient in bed; a few days’ rest on the sofa suffices. If, however, there be any uterine complication, the patient must be kept entirely at rest and lying down until the wound has soundly healed, as otherwise the wound will not close, or, what is worse, unhealthy ulceration will supervene. I come now to the consideration of the small circular ulcer usually situated higher up in the bowel than fissures are, and differing from them somewhat in symptoms, but not in treatment. The common situation of the small circu- lar ulcer is above, or about the lower edge of, the internal sphincter. There is less severe pain at the moment of defecation, but it comes on from five minutes to a quarter or half an hour after that act, and then is quite as in- tolerable as that resulting from fissure. These minute ulcers are more diffi- cult to find than fissures, as they often cannot be seen without using a speculum, or getting the patients to strain violently, which they will not do for fear of exciting pain. An educated finger detects these ulcers directly ; they feel much like the internal aperture of a fistula, but their edges are harder, and therefore more defined, and there is no elevation above the surface of the surrounding mucous membrane, as is frequently the case in fistula when a pouting opening exists. These ulcers often burrow, and then they become the internal openings of blind internal fistula. A great many apparently anomalous symptoms are produced by small painful ulcers of the rectum: retention of uriue, pain in the back, and pain and numbness down the back of the legs, leading to unfounded fears of paralysis, may be mentioned as not uncommon. I cannot conclude my remarks on fissure and painful ulcer of the rectum without adverting to a mode of treatment which I have practised with success, especially in cases in which a cutting operation has been contra-indicated. I refer to dilatation. Originated by Kecamier and much practised by Dolbeau, this manoeuvre, when properly carried out, cures fissures and ulcers on the same principle as dividing the sphincter with the knife, by paralyzing it until the ulcer has healed.