700 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE FEMALE GENITALS. The question as' to an operation for the formation of a vagina, in such a subject, is by the majority of surgeons decided in the negative. Ashhurst,1 for example, referring to the matter, observes that the surgeon’s art may enable such a woman to be a man’s mistress, but can never fit her to be his wife and the mother of his children. The late Dr. Gross said, “nothing is to be done .... the woman is impotent, and therefore disqualified for marriage.” Roubaud2 says that “the surgeon ought never to compromise his art by facilitating a coitus of which the final end, fecundation, cannot be attained.” Puech also rejects the operation in cases of rudimentary uterus, or of absence of this organ. Levrat, on the other hand, admitting that such an operation is only for the purpose of rendering coition possible,3 calls it “an operation of complaisance,” but adds that, “ as Le Fort says, these operations of complaisance may, after marriage, become operations of necessity.” Dr. Emmet holds that “ if the vagina be absent, it is proper to open a canal at an early age, even if no retention exists, if a vestige of the uterus can be detectedhe says that in one of the cases operated on by him, “nature had evidently delayed the development of puberty in consequence of an occlusion,” while in another the uterus was developed after failure of the operation to discover any trace of the organ. There is no difference of opinion as to the propriety of attempting the formation of a vagina if the uterus is present, and especially if it is enlarged by the accumulation of menstrual fluid ; the procedure is facilitated by the latter condition. In performing the operation, the patient is anaesthetized and placed in the lithotomy position ; the operator passes into the bladder a steel sound or catheter, which is held by an assistant, and then introduces the index finger of the left hand into the rectum. The next step is to cut the skiii, by snipping with scissors in a vertical line below the urethra (Emmet), or by a transverse or slightly curved incision, with its concavity above, and equidistant from the rectum and the urethra (L. de Sinety); then a finger of the right hand is used to press and to tear the tissues apart, as origin- ally advised and practised by Amussat. While Amussat made the new vagina by successive stages, most operators prefer with Emmet to accomplish this at a single sitting. In rare cases the handle of the scalpel may be used in this process of tearing, if the tissues resist the finger too strongly, or they may be snipped by the scissors. In a very interesting case narrated by Fletcher,4 of a married woman twenty-two years old, who suffered from absence of the vagina, he made a dissection with the scalpel two inches in depth, and then successfully completed the opening of a passage to the uterus by means of a large rectal bougie, which, introduced into the opening made by the scalpel, was forced farther by successive blows with a mallet upon its external end. The operator in the process of tearing, or of dissection, guards against injury to the bladder or the rectum by the finger in the latter, and by the sound in the former. If, after reaching the neck of the womb, it be found imperforate, a trocar, a suitable knife, or scissors, may be used to open it. In addition to the dangers of the operation which have been mentioned, the ureters or the peri- toneum maybe injured. “Some surgeons,5 even the most able, have been under the necessity of desisting from the operation, because it has appeared to them impracticable or too dangerous.” In cases where it has been difficult or impossible, by the creation of aAragina or the restoration of the organ after accidental occlusion, to get access to the 1 Principles and Practice of Surgery. 2 Traite de l’Impuissance et de la Sterility. 3 Nouveau Dictionnaire de M6decine et de Chir. Prat., tome xxxviii. 4 Medico-Chirurgical Notes and Illustrations. London, 1831. 5 Hegar und Kaltenbacli, op. cit.