678 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE FEMALE GENITALS. not the woman was eight months pregnant, labor quickly occurred, and the mother died in three days. In that given by Duncan, in which a medical friend, thinking that the patient had ovarian dropsy, performed paracentesis and drew off a large quantity of liquor amnii, desisting only when he recognized the movements of the foetus striking against the canula, the pregnancy lasted about a month after the operation, and neither mother nor child was injured. Examples of punctured and of incised wounds of the pregnant uterus inflicted after the abdomen has been opened, the uterus being mis- taken for an ovarian cyst, are not rare. Incised or lacerated wounds of the pregnant uterus are best treated by a completion of the Caesarean operation which the injury has already begun ; in some cases, where the uterus has been torn to a great extent, and where the wound is irregular and haemostasis difficult, the removal of the organ would furnish a better chance of recovery. In punctured wounds of the uterus, as from a trocar, the rule of practice varies according as the uterus has been immediately penetrated, or mediately, that is, through the abdominal wall. In the latter case, the foetus should not be interfered with. In the former, Dr. Lee1 holds that, if the ovum be uninjured—and he gives tlie same advice even in case of an incised wound—the wound should be carefully closed with carbolized sutures, but that if the ovum be injured the Caesarean operation should be done. While thus far statistics sustain the propriety of the latter course, these are not yet sufficiently numerous to make it an absolute rule ; the practice advised in the former condition will be readily accepted by most surgeons, though some, Dr. Byford1 for example, maintain that the Caesa- rean operation is indicated if the pregnancy be advanced. Lacerations of the Cervix Uteri; Tracheloplasty. The vaginal portion of the neck of the womb is, in the virgin, cone-shaped, its lower portion presenting a round, thick, broad rim, or cushion, with a slight depression in the centre, the external mouth of the womb. There is no division in the circle surrounding the os, no separation into anterior and posterior lips; this distinction is not established until childbirth occurs. The expulsion of the child from the womb causes more or less tearing of the os, the most common and marked of these tears being bilateral, and that upon the left side being usually the deeper; the hitherto uniform rim of the entrance to the uterine canal is now separated into two lips, one anterior and the other posterior, often unequal in size. In altogether exceptional cases a woman may give birth to a child without the slightest injury to the vaginal cervix, as far as careful subsequent examination can show, the cervix in all respects retaining its virginal character. These cases are, however, too few to invalidate the general law which has been enunciated. It is through traumatism that some of the most important functions of woman’s sexual life are accomplished; and in childbirth there is more or less physiological traumatism involving the neck of the womb. The ovary has its surface made irregular by the ripening and rupture of hundreds of ovisacs during menstrual life, and is marked by innumerable cicatrices; in like manner, the higher function of childbirth causes important changes in the mouth of the womb; this is so torn and fissured by successive labors that it presents an irregular surface—elevations, depressions, and cicatrices marking the more or less complete healing of childbirth lesions ; in women who have borne many children the cervix may be reduced to a small, button-like projection in 1 Transactions of tlie American Gynaecological Society, vol. viii.