940 SCROFULO-TUBERCULOUS AND OTHER STRUCTURAL DISEASES OF BONES. skeleton may be disturbed, and rachitis appear, if the conditions which give rise to it are present. Causes.—These conditions may be summed up in one word—physiological want, a want which may exist in the very bosom of abundance. Grave fevers, typhoid fever, measles, scarlatina, etc., often give rise to it. This is why we sometimes see rachitis appear during convalescence from these dis- eases. I have at least observed this of scoliosis. But besides these patho- logical states, there are, for both sexes, special causes which explain both late rachitis and the deformities to which it gives rise. In young girls, the pre- paration for, and the establishment of, the catamenial flow, often cause pro- found anaemia, depression of the strength, general languor, and well-marked disturbances of nutrition, the degree of which is proportioned to the activity of growth and to the social condition of the subject. If to these causes of physiological want, and of rachitis, we add the influence of a more sedentary life—one in which there is more sitting down—and the wrong attitudes which children assume in school, the frequency of scoliosis in little girls from nine to fourteen years old, will be easily understood. To me it appears that the scoliosis of adolescents is a late vertebral rachitis. Among young boys, the storms of puberty, with the debility which accompanies it, the rapid growth which coincides with this period of life, the lymphatic temperament, etc., also give rise to the same physiological want which disturbs the work of ossification and brings on rachitis. The less sedentary life of the young boy—the being more on his feet—his walking more than girls, predispose him more to the manifestations of late rachitis in the lower limbs, and especially to knock-knee, than to scoliosis. I shall hereafter give an example of late rachitis of the femur. These evolutionary causes, which are common to all classes of society, and perhaps a certain predisposition, receive powerful assistance from the priva- tions and sufferings of poverty and of bad hygienic surroundings. Poor and insufficient food, want of heat and ventilation in their dwellings, premature work, and work which exceeds the strength of young persons, explain why deviations in shape, and deformities of the limbs and pelvis, are more fre- quently met with in the poor and laboring classes. Mikulicz has made a curious observation. In Vienna it is especially young bakers who are affected with knock-knee. The journeyman baker is badly nourished, turns night into day, goes out but little, does not sleep enough, sweats a great deal in the exercise of his calling in the midst of an overheated atmosphere, etc. These are so many causes of debility and imperfect ossification, that is to say, of rachitis. This disease manifests itself in the baker’s young apprentice pre- ferably as knock-knee, because when be kneads the dough he puts his knees together and separates his feet, so as to have a larger base of support and to work the dough with greater strength. Physiological want and vicious attitudes, such are the usual causes of rachitis arid of the deformities by which it is accompanied in adolescents. If we should follow up the different callings and the different conditions of existence of rachitic youths, we should find the predisposing cause of the rickets as Avell as the mechanical reason for the bony deformities, among which scoliosis and knock-knee are the most common. Treatment.—If knock-knee and scoliosis are dependent upon rachitis, one ought, no matter what surgical interference maybe determined upon, to pay great attention to the general condition, and not to forget to prescribe the employment of phosphatic preparations, and of foods in which earthy salts predominate. Although I do not have to treat here of the surgical therapeutics of idio- pathic scoliosis, nor of that of knock-knee, I think I may in passing recom-