463 VITAL AND ORGANIC LESIONS OF THE URETHRA. having the gravity which had been previously assigned to them. Ulcera- tions may exist, often very numerous, hut small, superficial, limited to the mucous membrane, and constantly resting upon an indurated base, imper- meable to liquids. The following, in the opinion of Yoillemier, is the way in which the complication is produced: as soon as a stricture has reached a certain degree, the urine, being unable to escape freely, tends to dilate the urethra above the obstruction. In this way a sort of pocket is formed, in which the urine remains and is altered, and the walls of which inflame, become friable and less resistant, and end by bursting under the strain of the efforts which the patient makes in order to evacuate his bladder. This theory of the mechanism of spontaneous rupture of the urethra, following stricture, already imperfectly recognized by Charles Bell and Civiale, has been fully adopted by Sir Henry Thompson. In regard to the situation of these ruptures, it may be said, in a general way, that they occur immediately back of the stricture, and consequently oftenest at the junction of the bulbous and membranous portions of the urethra. The tear almost always takes a longitudinal direction, parallel to the axis of the canal. Its length varies from four to ten millimetres ; its breadth from three to four. In some cases, however, there is found at the autopsy a consider- able loss of substance, sufficient sometimes to effect the complete disappear- ance of the strictured part. Then there is evidently a mortification of the walls of the urethra, consecutive to the rupture, properly so called. Very rarely the rupture occupies the lower and median walls of the urethra, much more frequently it is situated on the side. Finally, it is traumatic strictures which are most prone to be accompanied by the complication which is under consideration ; this is explained by the course of these strictures, which attain their highest degree of intensity with extreme rapidity. Among the symptoms of pathological rupture of the urethra, there is one which is really pathognomonic, and which makes it possible to formulate the diagnosis immediately; this is the peculiar sense of comfort, the instan- taneous relief, spoken of by a patient affected with stricture, and who an instant before was exhausting himself in futile efforts to satisfy his inclina- tion to pass water. But this sense of comfort is followed by acute pain, recurring and becoming burning at each micturition, and soon attended by a considerable swelling of the perineum and circumjacent parts, and by high fever—-in a word, by all the characteristic symptoms of urinary infiltration, which, if it does not lead to the death of the patient, often leaves behind urinary fistulpe. In addition to the acute complications which I have just mentioned, and which manifest themselves locally, strictures of the urethra are quite fre- quently the cause of febrile outbreaks, which come on suddenly, especially in consequence of attempts at exploration or treatment, and are capable of carry- ing off the patient in a few hours. I shall speak hereafter in detail of this grave complication, in a section devoted to urinary fever. Finally, I have referred, in addition to the acute complications of stric- ture of the urethra, to a certain number of complications, the progress of which is slower, often insidious, and which may be designated by the name of chronic complications. I restrict myself to mentioning them here, reserving their special study for a subsequent portion of this article. Among these chronic or subacute complications, some are local, like urinary abscesses and urinary sinuses or pockets; others are general, having no feature peculiar to strictures, and being encountered in all cases in which, in consequence of ob- struction to the flow of urine, the bladder is incompletely emptied. These last complications, which are usually the result of a cysto-pyelo-nephritis, will be studied under the head of urinary fever.