INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE FEMALE GENITALS. 742 The patient is placed in the lithotomy or in the dorso-sacral position, but an anaesthetic is not used unless she is very sensitive and restless. Four assis- tants are required, two to hold the lower limbs and aid in exposing the field of operation, a third to hand instruments, and a fourth to sponge and irri- Fig. 1417. Fig. 1418. gate the parts. The instruments are a small convex bistoury, thin-bladed scissors curved upon their face, tenaculum-forceps and haemostatic forceps, needles, a needle-holder, straight scissors, sponges and sponge-holder, wire and silk, and a catheter. Beside these, a strong forceps, or a suitable clamp, to hold the vaginal mucous membrane after it has been lifted up, and a probe-pointed bistoury, will be needed. The first step is to lift up by means of two or three forceps a longitudinal fold upon the anterior vaginal wall; the highest point at which one of the forceps is placed is about, one centi- metre from the anterior lip of the uterus, and the lowest, for another, is three centimetres from the urethral orifice. Drawing on these instruments, the fold is so raised that a clamp can be applied in a direction parallel to its course, and for this purpose the forceps of Krassowski, that of Hegar, or the appa- ratus of Cheron, may be used. The instrument is not applied to the base, but ought to approach somewhat the crest of the fold. The sutures are now passed from one side to the other, about a centimetre below the clamp ; the next step is to excise the fold with a bistoury, the incision passing between the sutures and the clamp; the threads are fastened, and then superficial sutures are introduced to secure firm closure of the wound. Care must be taken to prevent any blood from remaining between its lips; if any is found it is pressed out, and if there are bleeding points between the sutures, the hemorrhage is to be arrested by the introduction of deep stitches. An objection to this method is the danger of excising part of the wall of the bladder. Hegar says that this accident has never occurred to him. To guard against its occurrence, a catheter may be passed into the bladder before the clamp is applied, in order to learn the thickness of the vesico- vaginal wall; generally, when the fold is lifted up, one can recognize the vaginal, and beneath it the vesical wall; further, in passing the needles, the