APPENDIX. 1152 with care; the knowledge he will thus gain will keep him from falling into the common conceit that all that is ingenious and useful in surgery belongs to the present age. In speaking of one of the modes of reduction of luxation of the hip-joint, Hippocrates exhibits his simplicity and freedom from any disposition to make a parade of surgical operations, a virtue which is not unfrequently wanting at the present day. “Section 70. Dislocation inwards at the hip- joint is to be reduced in the following manner (it is a good, proper, and natural mode of reduction, and has something of display in it, if any one takes delight in such ostentatious modes of procedure).” It would be interesting to go into particulars and notice the main points of what he has written concerning dislocations and fractures of all the bones, and very curious to examine the mechanism of the various forms of engines and apparatus, simple and complicated, which were used in the treatment of these injuries at the time when he flourished. Section 62 of “Articulations” is taken up with the treatment of congenital displacements of the ankle-joint and bones of the feet. He declares that club-foot is curable in most cases. The treatment should begin at as early a period as possible. He describes the modes of straightening, and tells how the foot is to be kept in position by soft compresses and bandages, “ with cerate containing a full proportion of resin,” cautioning at the same time against making the applications too tight! In addition to the above, he directs that a sole of leather, or of lead, shall be bound on beneath the other band- ages. He sums up the treatment in the following manner:— In a word, as if moulding a wax model, you must bring to their natural position the parts which were abnormally displaced and contracted together, so rectifying them with your hands, and with the bandaging in like manner, as to bring them into their position, not by force, but gently; and the bandages are to be stitched so as to suit the position in which the limb is to be placed, for different modes of the deformity require different positions. And a small shoe made of lead is to be bound on externally to the bandaging, having the same shape as the Chian slippers had. [A sort of stout boot.] But there is no necessity for it if the parts be properly adjusted with the hands, properly secured with the bandages, and properly disposed of afterwards. This, then, is the mode of cure, and it neither requires cutting, burning, or any other complex means, for such cases yield sooner to treatment than one would believe. However, they are to be fairly mastered only by time, and not until the body has grown up in the natural shape; when recourse is had to a shoe, the most suitable are the buskins, which derive their name from being used in travelling through mud ; for this sort of shoe does not yield to the foot, but the foot yields to it. A shoe like the Cretan is also suitable. Hippocrates discourses at some length on the difficulties and dangers at- tending the reduction of compound dislocations and compound fractures. He advises resection in certain cases where they cannot be reduced, saying, “Complete resections of bones at the joints, whether the foot, the hand, the leg, the ankle, the forearm, the wrist, for the most part are not attended with danger, unless one be cut off at once by deliquium ctnimi, or if continual fever supervene on the fourth day.” It is alike unworthy of a writer, and false to the requirements of historical accuracy, to allow the judgment to be so far warped by undue admiration of a hero, as to paint his virtues in vivid colors and intentionally suppress his faults, or obscure them in intense shade. It would be very misleading to cite only those instances in which Hippocrates, and his immediate followers, pursued a course which at this period of time we most heartily commend ; and to pass in silence those rude and barbarous practices which were then in vogue. The fear which Hippocrates entertained of the supervention