VITAL AND ORGANIC LESIONS OF THE URETHRA. 473 line, laying bare the end of the sound, and an attempt is made to introduce by the anterior extremity of the stricture a probe or a grooved director, by the help of which the stricture may be divided through its whole extent. This done, a catheter is introduced into the bladder and fastened in. But there are cases in which the discovery of the constricted oritice presents such great difficulty that the most skilful tind themselves balked. For cases of this kind, a certain number of modifications of external urethrotomy with- out a guide have been introduced, described under the names of retrograde catheterization, excision or resection of strictures, and collateral urethrotomy ; con- cerning each of these I will confine myself to saying a few words. Retrograde catheterization, practised for the first time in 1757, by Verguin, a surgeon of Toulouse, consists in introducing a catheter into the urethra through a pre-existent fistula of the bladder, consecutive to puncture of this viscus. This manoeuvre, to which a number of surgeons have bad recourse, offers, as may be understood, the immense advantage of admitting of the certain finding of the posterior end of the urethra. But it requires the presence of a hypogastric vesical fistula. Sedillot formerly expressed the opinion that, in the absence of a pre-exist- ing fistula, if in the course of an external urethrotomy, undertaken for an impassable stricture, it were found impossible to discover the posterior end, the surgeon would be justified in doing suprapubic cystotomy at once, in order to practise retrograde catheterization. In an extremely complicated case, of which I have published an account,1 after having failed the first time in the search for the posterior end of the urethra, I decided to have recourse to this extreme measure ; I opened the bladder above the pubis, and succeeded in introducing by the urethro-vesical orifice a sound, which, being made to protrude in the perineal wound, enabled me to re-establish the continuity of the canal. The operation was followed by entire success. Let me mention, in the last place, the two following procedures: one consists in excision or resection of the tumor made up of the strictured por- tion ; the other, devised by Bourguet (of Aix), and designated by the name of collateral urethrotomy, consists in replacing the constricted canal by a canal of new formation, without paying any attention to the stricture, which re- mains then at one side of the wound. General Indications Relaiive to the Treatment of Strictures. Choice of Method.—Among the different methods of treating strictures, it is to inflam- matory atrophic dilatation that the first rank should without contradiction be accorded. It is tbe most simple, tbe easiest to carry out, the most exempt from danger, that finally which gives the most durable results, especially if care be taken to continue the employment of it even when the patient appears to be cured. It is to it, then, that recourse should always be had by prefer- ence. Unfortunately, this method is far from being applicable to all cases. Certain strictures are so painful and so contractile, that it is impossible to practise dilatation upon them. Certain others, after having admitted of dilatation up to a certain point, refuse, on pain of most serious accidents, to admit of further dilatation. Likewise, there are some in which the surgeon succeeds in passing very soon even quite a large bougie, but which close up again as soon as treatment is suspended; and, finally, there are others tbe consistency of which makes them absolutely unclilatable. We have seen that superficial cauterization usually succeeds in diminishing the extreme sensitive- 1 Du catlnSterisme retrograde combine avec l’urdthrotomie externe. (Archives Gen. de Med., Juillet, 1883.)