163 SPONTANEOUS FRACTURE OF CALCULI. always rather soft, but are sometimes quite hard. Cystine calculi have a waxy consistence. Number.—Often single, calculi may be as numerous as in the case of Murat, alluded to by Coulson, who vouches for 678 stones in the bladder and 10,000 in the kidneys of an old man. Physick extracted over 1000 stones1 from the bladder of Chief Justice Marshall, of the Supreme Court of the United States. Xone of these stones was larger than a bean. Dr. Ellis Blake, of Yew York, once showed me the bladder of a woman, distended to about the size of a small fist, absolutely full of stones about the size of duck shot. They were not counted. This patient, during life, had passed these minute stones freely. Sometimes they would drop from her as she moved about. Oxalate-of-lime calculus is rarely multiple. Spontaneous Fracture of Calculi. The spontaneous fracture of calculi within the bladder has been explained by Orel.2 Other observers had already written concerning it,3 but their theo- ries of its cause are less satisfactory than that given by this writer. Ord examined a number of specimens from various sources, and reported upon them to the London Pathological Society. lie believes that the split- ting is due to the imbibition, by the mucous cement of a calculus, of urine* of different reaction and specific gravity from that in which the stone was originally formed. He quotes the paper of Southam4 giving two cases observed by that surgeon, one by Luke, and one by Liston, and a drawing of a calculus from the Musee Dupuytren, in Paris. Southam thought that the rupture was effected by the development of gas within the stone, but Ord believes that the internal force is the swelling of the colloid nucleus by the imbibition of fluid different from that in which the stone was formed. This swelling of the nu- cleus, Ord5 says, acts as a “bursting charge in a shell."’ Coulson has recorded a case, where, according to his belief, two soft calculi crushed each other by mutual friction. Liston’s calculus is supposed to have broken up under the influence of violent bodily shock. Ord has collected a number of cases in which the swelling of the nucleus alone could account for the disintegration. He also, in another place,6 records an example of molecular disintegration of a calculus, as shown in a stone taken after death from the kidney. Ord concludes7 that the spontaneous fracture of calculi may be due to the action of three causes : (1) Forces arising within the calculus itself. (2) Molecular disintegration. (3) Weakness of some of the alternating layers within the outer shell of the calculus. When a calculus undergoes spontaneous rupture within the bladder, each fragment, unless expelled, becomes'the nucleus of a new stone. In this way, Ord believes, some examples of multiple calculi take their origin. His8 most recent expression on this subject is a report upon Smith’s case, in which he found spores and mycelium, and in which he thinks that the fungus may have had something to do with the disintegration. 1 Gibson, Institutes of Surgery, 5tli ed., vol. ii. p. 220. 2 Trans. Path. Soc. Lond., vols. xxviii. p. 170, xxix. p. 161, xxx. pp. 314-320; and op. cit. p. 93. 3 Otto Schmidt, Beitrage zur cliirurgischeu Pathologie der Harnwerkzenge. Leipzig, 1865 ; quoted by Gross (Practical Treatise on the Diseases, Injuries, and Malformations of the Urinary Bladder, etc., p. 215). 4 Brit. Med. Journal, vol. i. p. 3. 1868. 6 Ibid., Sept. 7, 1878, p. 347. 6 Trans. Path. Soc. Lond., vol. xxxi. p. 185. 7 Spontaneous Disintegration of Calculi. Brit. Med. Journal, May 10, 1879, p. 702. s Trans. Path. Soc. Lond., vol. xxxii. p. 304.