INJURIES AND DISEASES OF TIIE BLADDER AND PROSTATE. 398 1 Op. cit., p. 135. may both give rise to this symptom. If the cause of the hsematuria be not at once referred to its proper source, and means taken to prevent extrava- sation of urine, the most serious, if not fatal, results may ensue. In connection with injuries to the kidneys giving rise to hsematuria, the question may suggest itself whether the whole of the albumen contained in the urine under such circumstances is thus accounted for. Such a case came under my notice in conjunction with my colleague, Mr. Mitchell Banks. Here the patient, after an injury to the back, was subject at varying intervals to attacks of brematuria. After an interval of some months it was observed that, though evidences of blood in the urine were seldom wanting on microscopic examination, yet the quantity of albumen, as compared with red blood-corpuscles, was so great, except at the times when a paroxysm of hemorrhage was taking place, as to lead to the inference that structural changes, such as are observed in certain forms of Bright’s disease, had also been brought about. The relative quantities of the constituents of the blood, as far as they can be determined by actual examination, is a point of some importance in the investigation of certain cases of hsematuria. Some curious forms of vicarious htematima have been described. Roberts1 mentions a case in which it alternated with epistaxis and intracranial hemor- rhage. There are other instances in which hsematuria has supplemented a hemorrhoidal flux, and other examples are recorded in which the menstrual flow has been diverted to the urinary organs, and has taken the form of a periodical hannaturia. Lastly, it must be remembered that there are certain drugs, such as cantharides and some of the terebinthinates, which by pro- voking congestion of the kidneys are capable of occasioning hsematuria. Treatment.—The treatment of hsematuria can only be here referred to in general terms, as it is a symptom rather than a disease. I shall therefore not do more than endeavor to indicate the principles which experience has shown to be serviceable in restraining it. When blood proceeds from the kidney, the means employed to arrest it are local and general. In the congestive forms of hsematuria, dry cupping over the loins is often of value, whilst after injuries, and in passive congestion, much reliance may be placed in the application of cold in the form of ice- bags or bladders over the part. Of the internal haemostatics, mention should be made of the acetate of lead, alum, ergot of rye, turpentine, and matico. Acetate of lead, in combination with opium, was a favorite remedy of the late Dr. Golding Bird. Rest in the recumbent position will of course be enjoined. Where the hemorrhage from the kidney has been probably of a pas- sive nature, I have more than once seen immediate benefit follow the placing of the patient in a horizontal position, but more or less lying on the belly. Some of the hemorrhages connected with the kidney are undoubtedly the result of haemostatic pressure, and may be favorably influenced by position. In prescribing a diet for a patient suffering from this form of bleeding, I have often found alum-whey, administered ad libitum, both pleasant and ser- viceable. Hemorrhages from the bladder are associated with causes which may or may not admit of removal. When due to the presence of a stone, its re- moval is an obvious expedient. When due to tumors or ulceration, such a course is less obvious, though the cause may have been determined by dig- ital exploration of the viscus, as already referred to. More precise means of diagnosis would, no doubt, bring many more of these conditions within the grasp of surgery. The most hemorrhagic tumor of the bladder—I refer to