INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. 616 mis on one or both sides. In a case examined by M. Dron, spermatozoa were present. Benign Fungus of the Testicle.—The skin, tunica vaginalis, and tunica albuginea having become adherent through inflammation, ulceration may ensue, and be followed by a protrusion of the substance of the testicle. To this condition the name of hernia testis, benign fungus, or granular swelling, has been applied. In some cases the greater part of the testicle may be pro- truded. Examination by the microscope demonstrates the swelling to be composed of the tubules of the testicle, lymph, and granulation-material. After the escape of the tumor from its compressing envelope, tension is relieved, pain subsides, and the swelling becomes less, owing to absorp- tion of the effused lymph. The base of the protrusion is surrounded by a thickened ring of indurated integument, this preventing the return of the swelling into the scrotum, which is often red and undermined. On section, the tubuli seminiferi are seen as brown textures, disposed in straight lines radiating from the attached portion of the swelling to the cir- cumference, where they are more or less apart. The other texture is white and granular, lying in the spaces which are afforded by the diverging rays, and is formed by organizable lymph, which is most abundant at the circum- ference of the protrusion. Mr. John Goodsir, on microscopic examination, found the protrusion to be composed of tubuli seminiferi and effused lymph, covered with healthy, exuberant granulations, and to be free from malignancy. Sir William Lawrence1 made a very important communication as to the pathology and treatment of this complaint as far back as 1808 :— An examination of the fungus shows that it has its origin in the glandular substance of the testicle itself; that the coats of the part are destroyed to a certain extent; and Fig. 1373. Benign fungus testis; the granulating character of the protrusion is well seen. '-Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal.