179 URETHRAL CALCULUS. the bulbo-membranous junction, it is better to push it back with a large, blunt, steel sound into the bladder, whence it may be afterwards washed out through a tube or crushed. Or it might be washed back into the bladder by injecting warm oil through an open tube passed down to it. If it can be felt in or anterior to the perineum, March’s1 expedient may be employed. This consists in passing a very large blunt steel sound up to the obstruction, and then, by external manipulations upon the calculus alone, to push out at the same time both it and the sound; the latter, of course, maintaining an open urethra as it goes. This is very similar to the expedient first suggested by Averill, that a large sound should be carried down to the stone, and, while the patient made a continued effort to urinate, the sound should be withdrawn that the stone might more easily escape through the distended urethra. When the stone is large, rough, angular, or lodged behind a constriction, these means do not suffice. It must then be extracted with forceps, or the urethra must be incised. I have not found the urethral lithotrite of service, but believe that it might be available in a case of prostatic stone. Leroy d’Etiolles’s scoop, the crocodile forceps, and the long urethral forceps, in my hands uniformly scrape, pinch, or tear the urethra, and I no longer use them. The best instrument in my experience for extracting foreign bodies from the urethra has been Thompson’s divulsor, designed for splitting strictures. My first success2 was upon a physician in whose membranous urethra a rough oxalate-of-lime calculus had been lodged for two months, causing repeated retention of urine, vesical distention, and overflow. The accompanying figure shows the stone in position as it was caught and extracted. The diam- Fig. 1198. Extraction of urethral calculus with Thompson’s divulsor. eters of this calculus were I and T5¥ inch. The whalebone guide slipped easily past it, and the tunnelled divulsor followed without difficulty. The blades were separated, and, on being approximated, caught the stone and extracted it with ease. I found afterwards that this expedient had been previously re- sorted to with success by Dr. Westmoreland,3 of Georgia. Subsequently I removed4 a pin from the deep urethra of the male with the same instrument, and without any difficulty. A divulsor with one cross-bar is preferable to those which have two. 1 Trans. New York State Med. Soc., p. 71. 1867. * New York Med. Record, March 6,1875. 3 Atlanta Med. and Surg. Jonrn., Oct. 1874, p. 415. 4 New York Med. Record, May 1,1875.