751 COCCYGODYNIA. The dilator is secured in position by a T-bandage, and is worn for two or three hours in the morning, and again in the afternoon or evening; it is used for two or three weeks, or longer, or till the parts are entirely healed and sensitiveness gone. The objection to a glass dilator is that sometimes the instrument may undergo spontaneous fracture while in the vagina, greatly to the dismay of the patient, and that, even if no injury be done, the removal of the frag- ments may be somewhat difficult; an accident of this kind occurred to a patient under my own care. Dr. Emmet, who regards an operation as rarely necessaiy, performs it as follows: The patient is placed on the back, with the limbs drawn up; after etherization a speculum is introduced under the arch of the pubis, so as to bring the posterior wall of the vagina into view. The index finger is intro- duced within the anus, and the sphincter is forced up against the posterior wall of the vagina. It is then easy to divide with scissors the fibres encir- cling the vagina on each side, just within the fourchette, and about three- quarters of an inch apart. This does not allow a prolapsus of the vaginal wall, but permits an equal extent of dilatation of the outlet by the glass plug. COCCYGODYNIA. Coccygodynia, or coccyalgia, is the name given to a severe pain situated in the coccygeal region, and aggravated or excited by pressure or by movement of the coccygeal bones. The late Dr. J. C. JSTott, of Hew York, and formerly of Mobile, is credited with having first directed professional attention to this subject. Generally regarded as belonging exclusively to the female sex, though this is denied apparently with sound reason by Worms, coccygodynia is most fre- quently seen during the period of sexual activity ; but two cases are men- tioned by Horschelman in which the subjects were between four and five years old. Though generally met with in the married, yet Courty and Hela- ton mention its occurrence in virgins. A fall or blow upon the coccyx may cause the disease; it has been caused by riding on horseback (Scanzoni), and by exposure to cold, as in a patient of Courty’s, who was accustomed to lie in bed with her uncovered hips pressing against the wall, and as in another case in which it was induced by sitting on a wet cushion while riding in a carriage. Seeligmiiller had a most obstinate case of coccyalgia in a woman upon whose shoulders a cow sprang, crushing her to the ground. But the great majority of cases originate in labor, either natural or instrumental. In some cases the bones of the coccyx are found dislocated or fractured; in others, caries or osteomalacia may be present, or there may be periostitis. Diseases of the pelvic organs, such as uterine dis- placements and inflammation, ovarian disease, and peri-uterine inflammation, may, according to some writers, also be causes of this affection. In rare cases it may be a pure neurosis, a neuralgia of the coccygeal plexus. The coccyx presents great sensibility if pressed .on either externally or through the rectum ; the subject of coccygodynia may suffer in walking, in sitting, or in lying on the back ; defecation is usually attended with great suffering, and in some cases the sexual relations become impossible. The disease is usually chronic, and is often exceedingly rebellious to treat- ment, while again, in an acute case, it may disappear, permanently or only temporarily, without reference to treatment. Various local remedies have been resorted to, such as counter-irritation, the endermic or hypodermic Use of morphia, the hypodermic injection of hot water, and the application of