URINARY CALCULUS. 228 movements while in the erect posture, and lying down, if possible, every time- lie urinates. Complications of Lithotrity.—The complications of lithotrity may be divided into two classes, those attending the operation and those following it. Complications during the Operation.—These are escape of urine, vesical spasm, and hemorrhage. (1) Escape of Urine.—As the lithotrite is being introduced, or after it is fairly in the bladder, whether an anaesthetic has been used or not, the bladder will sometimes involuntarily empty itself, the fluid escaping in a stream along- side of the instrument. It is proper under such circumstances to grasp the penis and compress the urethra about tbe shaft of the lithotrite, without withdrawing the latter, and after a moment’s delay to proceed with the ope- ration. In case this does not suffice, a flat tape may be tied with moderate firmness about the body of the penis, over the shaft of the lithotrite, and the operation may go on; but it is usually better either to finish the sitting with the bladder empty, which may be safely done by an experienced operator using a lithotrite with a smooth male blade, or the sitting may be postponed to a more favorable occasion when the bladder may be less irritable, and the pre- caution may be taken before this subsequent sitting to administer morphine subcutaneously. (2) Vesical spasm during the operation is a rare but a disagreeable compli- cation. The bladder may be only partly empty, or the spasm may spurt out what fluid it contains, often with an exhibition of decided suffering, if an anaesthetic has been used, and with cries of pain from the patient if it has not; the deep urethral muscles and the vesical walls grasp the lithotrite, and fix it in position so that it can no longer be rotated, and sometimes it is rather tightly retained if an effort is made to withdraw it. With a bladder in such a mood, further operation is generally impossible. Sometimes the spasm is quite short, and, if the lithotrite is left at rest, promptly subsides and does not recur. Usually, however, it repeats itself, and the prudent surgeon retires his instrument as gently as possible, acknow- ledging defeat, and promising himself aid from his ally morphia before making the next aggressive move. (3) Hemorrhage during an operation is usually seen only in such drops of blood as, starting from a scraped patch of urethra, ooze forwards along the shaft of the instrument, or in a gush of urine stained with blood forced out by vesical spasm. Sucb indications, although unpleasant, are not serious, and do not call for a termination of the sitting. Aston Key has recorded a case in which hemorrhage was so severe during attempted lithotrity that it was deemed prudent to abandon the operation and perform lithotomy. Complications after the Operation.—These are retention of urine, urinary fever, hemorrhage, impaction of a fragment in the urethra, cystitis, epididy- mitis, and surgical kidney. (1) Retention of Urine.—This is a complication not particularly uncommon after the manipulations of old-fashioned lithotrity. It occurs also sometimes after the longer sittings of litholapaxy. It is due to spasm of the sphincters and cut-off group of urethral muscles, excited by the irritation of the mucous membrane about the membranous urethra. A warm bath, hot fomentations, and an anodyne may relieve it; if not, after moderate delay, it is proper to introduce a small soft catheter.1 The urine so drawn oil* will generally 1 A silk instrument, recently placed upon the market by Eschman Bros. & Walch, St. Bartholo- mew’s Square, London, seems to be a model of perfection in its way, possessing all the flexibility of soft rubber with far greater rigidity, and a very much higher finish than rubber.