889 OPERATIONS FOR OVARIAN AND UTERINE TUMORS. 1 Op. cit., p. 617. from below and dissected from it, as described in speaking of the vaginal operation, only more rapidly. Before closing the vaginal vault, the long ligatures are brought out through this opening into the vagina. The results of this form of hysterectomy have not been good in this coun- try ; and in Germany, where it has been mainly done, Idegar and Kalten- bach state that of 89 completed operations only 26 ended in recovery; the mortality was therefore 71 per cent. The chief causes of death are shock, peritonitis, and secondary hemorrhage. Freund’s operation has thus been so fatal, that, among careful and con- scientious surgeons, it is, already, practically a thing of the past. But the application of his method, or of some modification of it, to the treatment of myomata or uterine fibroids, has suggested itself to the more active observers in every country. In Germany, Scbroeder, Hegar, Olshausen; in England, Bantock, Thornton, Spencer Wells, Tait; Keith in Scotland, and a number of writers in this country, have recorded their views and experience; so that to-day the procedure is well recognized and understood in its technique, however doubtful be the conditions that justify its performance. To illustrate that uncertainty, two facts only need be stated : (1) Uterine fibroids, for which hysterectomy is mainly performed, are not necessarily fatal like ovarian cysts; in fact, they cause death with extreme rarity. (2) The aggregate mortality, even among the most skilful and experienced operators, is still more than 33 per cent., a serious matter to contemplate in an operation of election only. In March, 1884, Dr. II. R. Bigelow, of Washington, published in the American Journal of Obstetrics the statistical results of all known operations of hysterectomy, which then showed a mortality of over 33 per cent. Thus in 359 completed operations there were 227 recoveries, and 132 deaths. The full table, with the details of each reporting surgeon’s experience, is given by Emmet.1 Those who may wish to consult detailed monographs on the subject are referred to Hegar and Kaltenbach’s “Operative Gynakologie,” 1881; Schroe- der’s paper “on myomotomy” in the British Medical Journal, Oct. 13, 1883; Mr. Knowsley Thornton’s views on the “ operative treatment of fibro- myomata” in the same journal; and, lastly, a notable and most important memoir by Dr. Thomas Keith on “hysterectomy for fibrous tumors of the uterus,” published in 1885. In the latter work, which is replete with valuable hints and wise suggestions, its distinguished author repudiates the idea which is often expressed that hysterectomy “ is in much the same position now that ovariotomy was five and twenty years ago,” because of the essential difference in the danger to life of uterine fibroids and ovarian^ cysts. After a condensed consideration of these tumors, he admits that the following are conditions in which hys- terectomy “ may reasonably be advised — 1. In very large, rapidly growing tumors of all kinds, in young women. By a large tumor is meant a tumor of upwards of twenty pounds. 2. In all cases of real fibrous-cystic tumors, if they can be removed. Also in all cases of suppurating tumor. 3. In most cases of soft cedematous fibrous tumor. These often grow to an enormous size, far larger often than any ovarian tumor. 4. In cases of large bleeding fibroids of any age, provided that the patient is not approaching fifty years of age, that her life is practically useless, and that further ex- perience in the operation shall show that the mortality of hysterectomy is likely to diminish.