LITHOTOMY. 255 Rau, in Holland, operated very successfully. In 1713 he said that he had cut 1547 patients. He operated by what is believed to be have been the lateral method, but no exact record of it has been left. He said in his lec- tures to his pupils, “ Since I am obliged to live and gain my sustenance mainly by the employment of this method, I will not describe it to you at all. If I were forced to tell you something about it, that which I would tell you would not be the truth, wherefore I prefer to maintain absolute silence. If you can learn my method by seeing me operate, I have no objections to make, but, for the rest, read Celsus.” At about this time, early in the eighteenth century, Cheselden began to remove stones from the bladder by the supra-pubic operation. Until this time most of the English lithotomies had been according to the apparatus major of Marianus Sanctus. Cheselden, having heard of the success of Frere Jacques, tried the perineal operation, but promptly lost four out of ten patients. This stimulated him to new efforts. He studied the subject pro- foundly, and finally reached the perfected lateral operation, performing it in all its essentials as it is done to-day. His fame spread abroad to such an extent that, in 1729, the French surgeon Morand was sent by the French Academie des Sciences, at the expense of that institution, to study the method of the distinguished Englishman in London. Ho notable modification of the lateral operation has been made since the days of Cheselden. A vast number of minor innovations have sprung up, but nothing fundamental. The main trouble has been to get uniformity of opinion as to the extent of the internal incision, and in order to make this a matter of mathematics two instruments have appeared in the field, the cut- ting gorget and the concealed lithotome; the former cutting from without inwards, a distance regulated by its breadth, and tfje latter cutting from within outwards, to a depth regulated beforehand by the distance to which the point of the concealed knife is allowed to protrude from its sheath. The first cutting gorget was one of the instruments of the apparatus major. Its edge was sometimes sharpened that it might cut the prostate, but blunt instruments were generally used to effect dilatation of the vesical orifice. Presently innumerable gorgets, blunt and sharp, single and double, of various curves and shapes, were devised, each operator seeming to have his favorite. These have nearly all become obsolete except the blunt gorget, which Thomp- son still recommends to be used as a guide for the forceps in the case of a deep perineum, in fat men with large prostates. The lithotome cache was given to the profession through the columns of the Journal of Verduin, in 1748, by its inventor, Jean Baseilhac, better known as Frere Come. This instrument is still in general use in France. It has been abundantly modified, but not as extensively as the gorget. Dupuytren’s double lithotome cache, with which he performed his bilateral operation, is perhaps the best known of the modifications. In the line of the cutting gorgets and lithotomes belong the triangular blade of Civiale, to be pushed along the groove of the conductor, and the broad probe-pointed knife of the late N. R. Smith, of Baltimore. Cosaccio, in 1847, devised a deep gutter to replace the groove of the sound, in which gutter the point of the cystotome could glide, but from which it could not escape. Numerous similar sliding cystotomes have been devised since that date. One very well known in New York, is the bisector of the late James R. Wood. Most English and American surgeons use the scalpel or the Blizzard knife with which to incise the neck of the bladder, preferring it to any cystotome, lithotome, or gorget. The bilateral operation is only a modification of the lateral; the original