1055 DEFORMITIES OF THE UPPER EXTREMITIES. is often met with; tenotomy is consequently very rarely necessary, and the use of a small flexible splint, similar to that employed in the treatment of slight varus, will soon overcome the contraction. Ison-congenital affections of the upper extremity are usually due to muscular paralysis; these cases present no special interest, and scarcely admit of any classifled description. Their treatment is conducted on the same plan that is employed in paralytic de- formities of the lower extremity, and here again mechanical treatment usually suffices without tenotomy. Dupuytren’s Contraction of the Fingers.—This affection, which has been named after the eminent French surgeon who first explained its pathology, is characterized by flexion of the fingers upon the palm of the hand. Dupuytren, having obtained for dissection the hand of a subject of this contraction, proved that the muscles and tendons took no part in pro- ducing the deformity, for he found that the palmar fascia was shortened and contracted, and that after dissecting off' this structure, the fingers could be perfectly straightened ; nor did further examination discover any abnormal- ity of the tendons or joints. This disease usually commences with slight hardening of the palmar fascia in the middle of the palm, below the ring and little fingers ; the skin next becomes slightly adherent and dimpled, being somewhat thickened around the depression. The induration of the aponeurosis and skin progresses until a band of thickened fascia can be felt passing upwards towards the base of one of the fingers. This band increases both in width and depth, until it is clearly displayed beneath the skin when the finger is pressed backwards to its full degree of extension; the finger next becomes drawn forwards, and is held by the contracted band in a straight Fig. 1498. Fig. 1499. Dupnytren’s finger-contraction. line with the metacarpal bones, and gradually the movement of extension becomes more and more limited until the finger is brought down to a con- dition of flexion. The contraction usually commences by bending of the first phalanx on the metacarpal bone, the second phalanx being afterwards