INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE URETHRA. 524 ammoniacal, when it is not manifested when an infiltration of urine has extensively invaded the cellular tissue? In fact, to explain the penetration of the urine into the tissues hy so small a door of entrance, arguments have been founded upon the efforts necessitated by micturition which has become difficult; or again, upon the permanent presence of an instrument com- pletely filling the calibre of the urethra; hut extravasation of urine takes place almost without hindrance in infiltration. Considering that it has been possible, in some cases of rapid death, to de- termine the presence of an intense congestion of the kidneys, which presented here and there small hemorrhagic foci, and that, on the other hand, my researches have shown that there is a considerable diminution in the pro- portion of urea in the urine voided at the time of an attack, at the same time that there is a notable augmentation of its proportion in the blood, we are led to the conclusion that in these cases the renal theory, which assumes tlie intervention of a vaso-motor disturbance of refiex origin, is the only one acceptable. But can an absolutely healthy kidney, under the influence of so slight an excitation, become the seat of a reflex congestion intense enough to give rise to the frank paroxysm ? I have some doubt in regard to this, all the more because there are quite a number of cases in which the febrile out- break does not occur, although the same cause of excitation may exist. On the other hand, the explanation does not appear to me to be doubtful in pernicious attacks which are produced by the same mechanism acting on an already altered kidney. In the continuous-remittent fever which constitutes the third type of the acute form, the febrile state is continuous, with more or less frequent repeti- tions of the exacerbations. These exacerbations often come on without surgi- cal provocation ; they sometimes coincide with changes or excesses of diet. Absorption pure and simple cannot be invoked, and it is more rational to think that it is the renal lesions that keep up the febrile state, or, to speak more correctly, the continuous state of urcemic intoxication, which is also demonstrated by the various phlegmasia? observed in the course of this type of urinary fever. The pathogenesis of the chronic or slow form is more complex: here, in- deed, there coexist almost constant renal lesions and stagnation of urine, in a bladder chronically inflamed, that is to say, which has become permeable and has been indued with absorbent power. The disease is spontaneous, almost apyretic, characterized specially hy general phenomena, gastric disburbances, and progressive emaciation. Is it not logical to think that there is in such cases a veritable urinary poisoning (urincemia), produced by direct absorption of a more or less altered urine? And, as at the same time the kidneys are diseased, let any excitation whatever supervene, and there may be seen to come on suddenly, by the mechanism of renal congestion, the gravest acci- dents, and sometimes rapid death. It is, therefore, not well to adopt either theory to the exclusion of the other, but to recognize that both appear to be necessary to explain two very different forms of urinary fever. Treatment.—Study of the conditions in which urinary fever is developed shows that if it sometimes appears spontaneously, it is oftener provoked by surgical interference ; the circumstances in which it is apt to occur have been carefully noted, and among them have been mentioned certain modifications of the general condition. It results from these considerations that the surgeon ought to be sure, by fulfilling certain medical indications, to place his patient in the most favorable conditions ; and that, on the other hand, he should avoid in his intervention the manoeuvres and procedures which have appeared to be of a nature to favor the development of urinary fever. The treatment should