INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE URETHRA. 478 or even a burning, pain, sometimes severe enough to cause syncope—a pain which lasts all the time that the instrument takes in passing through the muscular portion. The sensation of resistance which the surgeon per- ceives, as well as the pain felt by the patient, diminishes as soon as the sound has passed the muscular portion and while it is going through the prostatic portion; afterwards the same phenomena are reproduced, but more briefly and less markedly perhaps, at. the moment when the bulb passes the urethro-vesical orifice and actually enters the bladder. When the sur- geon withdraws the instrument, he perceives the same resistances, but with less distinctness, while at the same time the pains of the patient are less intense. If matters always took this shape, the diagnosis of contracture would be extremely easy, and there would be no difficulty in distinguishing it from true organic strictures which never admit of being passed by a bulb No. 16. Hut not infrequently exploration with a bougie-a-boule furnishes different results. When it has reached the neighborhood of the muscular portion, the instrument is found to be absolutely stopped, and, even on beginning again with a much smaller bulb, the same result is always obtained. This may be due to two causes; sometimes the extremity of the instrument is caught in the cul-de-sac of the bulb of the urethra—the depth of which is increased by the contracture of the muscle of Wilson—or in the cul-de-sac, which I have mentioned, in front of a valvule of the neck of the bladder; sometimes the contracture is so firm and permanent that it does not give way, and does not permit the passage of even a very delicate instrument, behaving absolutely like a true organic stricture. In the first case, if the instrument is arrested in the cul-de-sac of the bulb, or in a valvular cul-de-sac, one sometimes succeeds in avoiding the obstruc- tion by following the upper wall of the urethra, by pulling strongly upon the penis and carrying it up towards the abdomen, and, finally, by introduc- ing into the catheter a small stylet to which a slight curve is given. In the second case, that is to say, when the contracture is such that it will not admit of the passage of an exploratory bougie, one may often succeed, it is true, in passing the obstruction with an ordinary bougie, more or less delicate, but this instrument does not furnish any peculiar sensation, and in such a case it would be impossible to decide whether there were present a contracture of the neck of the bladder, or an organic stricture of the urethra. Under these circumstances, I have believed that I could rind a diagnostic sign, which, if not infallible, was at least very valuable, by determining the position of the obstruction by measurement. "Every time, indeed, that the obstruction is situated about fifteen centimetres from the meatus, it may be affirmed almost certainly that the obstruction is due to a contracture and not to an organic stricture, which, ordinarily, is situated at most at a distance of twelve, thir- teen, or fourteen centimetres. Prognosis.—Contracture of the neck of the bladder is always a serious dis- order, not because it often compromises the life of the subject affected with it, but because it always shows great tenacity, and even sometimes constitutes an almost incurable malady. Symptomatic contracture is a troublesome complication of a great number of affections of the urinary passages, and, although disappearing ordinarily with the cause which gives rise to it, it sometimes requires the employment of special measures. It is principally to idiopathic contracture that what I shall say as to the gravity of the prognosis is applicable. Its duration is always very long; it ends by altering the general health and especially the morale of certain patients, who become hypochondriac, and sometimes even put an end to their sufferings by suicide. Finally, the persistence of the disorder, and its resist-