ORCHITIS. 607 tide, and causes them to atrophy. When enlarged, the epididymis is to be felt running behind and above the testicle; it is hard and irregular, the tail feeling like a marble; the vas deferens is swollen, and, together with the epididymis, is, in acute inflammation, very tender, but, when the inflamma- tion subsides, the effusion into the tunica vaginalis which so often accompa- nies epididymitis, becomes absorbed, and the part may be freely handled. These cases should be most carefully treated because, owing to exudation into the cavity and walls of the ducts, obstruction to* the passage of the semen may be caused. Acute inflammation followed a blow received on the right testicle when sliding down some banisters, and was treated at one of the London hospitals by rest in bed, aperients, and soothing applications ; the patient left the hospital apparently well, but the testicle and epididymis began to waste, and Anally disappeared, being ultimately represented by two small fibrous bodies, about the size of peas. Special Varieties of Orchitis.—Sir James Paget,1 mentions a case of gouty ■orchitis, and states that it may be transferred by metastasis from one testicle to another. The following account of his own case was given to me by a married medical friend, aged about 50, who, when acting as “ locum tenens,” suffered from gout and gouty orchitis. He writes:— I am a gouty subject, and was very well on August 15, when I caught a severe cold and cough, which, with constant out-door work and standing from 9 A. M. to 9 P. M., considerably reduced my health ; then for three or four days my urine scalded when it was passed, and contained litliic acid ; suddenly cystitis attacked me, with discharge of mucus and blood from the urethra, great straining, and supra-pubic pain. I had to go out driving one day, when I found my left testicle tender and swollen ; it continued to increase in size until it became very large and heavy, with scrotal effusion; the ure- thral and vesical discharge ceased. I used belladonna ointment to ease the pain ; it did so, but irritated the skin of the scrotum, causing a discharge, and its use had to be discontinued. The glands of the left groin and thigh began to swell, but gradually sub- sided. With rest and tonic medicine, assisted by very small doses of percldoride of mercury, the testicle was slowly reduced in size, but the scrotum still remained thick and occasionally painful. A swelling of the right knee came on, and subsided in six weeks, when the left testicle again became painful and slightly swelled about the globus major. When examined by me, the left testicle was still swollen and slightly tender, and the epididymis was markedly enlarged. The sequence of the symptoms in this case is worthy of being noted. Dr. Y. Hanot2 gives an account of four cases of orchitis which occurred spontaneously in some patients suffering from typhoid fever. In all four the right testicle was attacked, presenting the usual symptoms of orchitis and being very tender on pressure. As a rule the epididymis and cord were free from inflammation and the tunica vaginalis from effusion. The orchitis came on when the patients, who were aged 21, 40, 32, and 18 respectively, were convalescing, but had not yet left their beds. In none did the urine contain pus, and there was no his- tory of any injury having been received. In the fourth case, that of a man aged 18, an abscess formed and the seminal tubes were extruded. The tubes were separated by embryonic elements which, together with leucocytes, were also seen within the tubes. The epididymis could be felt in situ. The association of mumps with orchitis is of interest and of consequence, as the inflammation of the testicle is at times followed by its atrophy. Mr. Curling says that, he has met with two such cases. The orchitis appears about the sixth or eighth day after the onset of the parotid inflammation, 1 Clinical Lectures, Brit. Med. Journ., May 22, 1875. 2 Loc. eit., p. 595.