CLUB FOOT. 1037 muscle being partially paralyzed, the inner border of the foot is not drawn up to the same degree as the outer border, so that the latter becomes raised and the former depressed ; eventually the peronei muscles are secondarily contracted and a continued condition of valgus is established. Talipes valgus resulting from spasmodic muscular contraction is always associated with equinus, and the condition of distortion is exactly similar to that developed in congenital equino-valgus (see Tig. 1489) ; the forepart of the foot and the heel are often greatly drawn up by the contracted muscles, and it is in cases of this nature that the most severe grade of valgus is met with. In the treatment of non-con genital valgus resulting from muscular distur- bance, tenotomy is always required; in the form arising from spasmodic contraction, the same course is followed in restoring the foot to shape as in the treatment of congenital valgus, the extensors of the toes and the peronei muscles being first subjected to tenotomy. For the mechanical treatment, a Scarpa’s shoe with the divided sole-plate is used ; a pad cor- responding to the arch of the foot is placed on the inner side of the front plate, and the toe-wire is attached to the same side; the three cog-wheels, giving lateral movement, rotation, and uplifting of the front plate on the heel-piece, are also necessary. By the use of this instrument the forepart of the foot is brought down, the inner border is raised, and the outer border is depressed, the pressure of the pad on the scaphoid at the same time pushing that bone into its proper position; after the deformity in front of the transverse tarsal joint is reduced, the Achilles tendon is divided, and the heel is lowered as in the treatment of equinus. In paralytic valgus, mechanical treatment alone should be used if the deformity is not very severe, or of long standing; should muscular contraction have become con- firmed, tenotomy must be resorted to, and in most cases section of the peronei tendons will suffice. That variety of paralytic valgus which results from contraction of the Achilles tendon with paralysis of the tibialis anticus muscle, is best relieved by first restoring the shape of the foot by mechanical treatment, and afterwards dividing the contracted tendo Achillis. In dis- cussing the treatment of paralytic equinus, it was remarked that, in young children, tenotomy should not be employed when the heel was only slightly raised, except under certain circumstances; this qualifying statement referred to the coexistence of paralysis of the tibialis anticus muscle. When, there- fore, this combination is present, it is always desirable to relieve the limited movement of the ankle-joint if it is found that the transverse tarsal joint is acquiring an abnormal amount of mobility, since otherwise the case is sure to become complicated by the development of valgus. After restoration of the limb, a steel support fixed to the boot must be used, to assist the weakened muscles in the paralytic, and to counteract the action of the stronger muscles in the spasmodic variety; a steel bar on the outer side of the leg, with a T-strap attached to the inner side of the boot and buckling around the bar, is sufficient in slight cases, but, as with talipes varus, further support must be given by an inside bar, or by carrying the in- strument to the thigh, when the distortion has been of a more severe grade. Flat-Foot.—That form of valgus which is always non-congenital is com- monly known as flat-foot; it results from a defective condition of the liga- ments of the sole of the foot, and is invariably associated with debility. This affection is frequently met with in rachitic children, and in those who with- out any special indication of rachitis are nevertheless badly developed, with flabby muscles, and with a tendency to the formation of tissue which is exces- sive in bulk but deficient in quality. In such cases, the arch of the foot gives way from inability of the ligaments to support the weight of the body ; in