HISTORY OF SURGERY. 1185 and pray that another Jenner may arise to perform a like miracle with the latter curse, which, though less fatal in its immediate effects, is none the less deadly in its insidious after-results. From the year 1492 a new literature sprang up, thenceforth to grow far more voluminous than satisfactory. The bibliography of syphilis tells a tale of endless jangling, of irreconcilable dif- ferences of opinion as to the nature and treatment of the malady, of countless essays and treatises, of interminable dissertations and disputations, from the mildness of honey-dew to the sharpness of the electro-galvanic cautery. Down to the middle of the fifteenth century, the operation of lithotomy was exclusively practised by itinerant specialists. They scarcely deserve the name of surgeons. They were evidently ignorant, conceited, and mercenary quacks. They entered the towns where they sought patients with loud and pompous heralding, and performed their operations in the open air with the utmost degree of display. From the ancient days of Hippocrates, who totally ignored the operation, and made his pupils swear by Apollo and all the gods that they would not undertake it, lithotomy had been performed by travelling stone- cutters, as they were called. The Celsian method has already been referred to. The operation is only spoken of in this place to point out the time of its recla- mation to legitimate-surgery. This was effected by Germain Colot, who was a French surgeon of great renown, and in high favor with Louis XI. About the year 1460, having gained the confidence of some of these wandering Italian lithotomists, he was allowed to be present, and even permitted to assist in several of their operations. Colot having attentively observed all the details of their procedures, declared that it was a shame and a disgrace that an operation of so much importance should have been so long and so entirely neglected by the surgeons of his own country. He accordingly resolved to remove the opprobrium by instituting a series of experiments upon the cadaver, which having done, he promptly communicated the results to the medical faculty of Paris and the physicians of the court, from all of whom he received hearty encouragement. Having thus carefully prepared himself, he obtained permission of the king to operate on a culprit who had been condemned to death, and who was known to have suffered severelv from stone in the bladder. The death sentence having been commuted to lithotomy, Colot performed the operation successfully in the churchyard of St. Severins, in the presence of the king, cured his patient, received a liberal pension, advanced the art of surgery, and rendered his own name immortal. Space will not admit of a complete history of this operation.1 Colot’s method of performing it was kept secret for a long period, and was greatly improved by Joannes de Romanis, of Cremona, and by Mariano Santo de Rarolotta, of Xaples, by the invention of the grooved staff upon which the median incision was made, all of which was finally published in 1534. The names of Pierre Franco, Francois Rousset, James and John Douglas, William Cheselden, J. J. Rau, and Frere Jacques, are all associated with the history of litho- tomy—a history extremely curious and full of interest. The sixteenth century was a brilliant period in the history of anatomy and surgery. It was the period of reformation in all that related to the healing art. The keen-eyed observer was richly rewarded for all his well-directed researches, both by the correction of numberless errors which had been per- petuated for centuries, and also by new and important discoveries. Amoug the most eminent and celebrated anatomists who flourished about the middle of this century was Andreas Vesalius, who was born at Brussels, December 31, 1514. At the age of twenty-eight, he sent forth from the press a far more exten- 1 I have given a more extended account of it in the second volume of the Annals of Anatomy and Surgery, 1880, under the title of “Germain Colot and the old lithotomists.” VOL. VI.—75