506 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE URETHRA. developed in the substance of the prostate itself, may also cause perforation of the recto-urethral septum. On the other hand, but much more rarely, certain stercoraceous abscesses* of hemorrhoidal origin, opening into the urethra, establish a permanent communication between this canal and the rectum. Finally, cancerous degeneration of the prostate or of the rectum sometimes leads to more or less extensive destruction of the recto-urethral septum, and is complicated with recto-urethral fistula. Pathological Anatomy.—The urethral orifice of the urethro-rectal fistula is single, narrow, and most frequently situated in the prostatic portion, more rarely in the membranous portion of the urethra. In the first case it occupies one of the sides of the verumontanum. It is always higher than the rectal orifice. From this urethral orifice starts a sinus, which extends towards the rectum following an oblique direction, from above downwards and from before backwards, whence it results that urine flows easily into the rectum, whilst fecal matters, unless they are liquid, meet with some difficulty in ascending towards the urethra. It is not rare to see this sinus, which starts from the urethra, bifurcating—one branch of the bifurcation reaching the rectum, and the other opening upon the perineum ; in such a case the fistula is at once urethro-rectal and urethro-perineal. The fistulous track is ordinarily sinuous, and sometimes so narrow as to permit only with difficulty the introduction of a probe. Its walls are in- durated and callous, and give the sensation of a cord stretched from one orifice to the other. The rectal orifice is situated above the sphincter, and is often hidden among the folds of the mucous membrane. When it is exposed by means of a speculum, it presents itself under the appearance of a more or less narrow opening situated in the centre of a reddish fungosity. It is surrounded by callosities and nodosities, which are sometimes very hard. In some cases the fistulous opening on the side of the rectum is very large, and there is a true loss of substance in the recto-urethral septum. This state of affairs is met with especially in cases in which the prostate has been destroyed by extensive suppuration, by calculi, or by tuberculous or cancerous degeneration. The rectal mucous membrane, and the skin of the parts adjoin- ing the anus, and that of the thighs, are often reddened, excoriated, and irritated by the continual contact of urine. Nevertheless, it should be noted that the inflammation of the rectal mucous membrane is much less intense than in cases of vesico-rectal fistula. Symptomatology and Diagnosis.—The principal symptom of urethro-rectal fistula consists in the passage of urine by the rectum and of intestinal matters and gases by the urethra. The escape of urine by the rectum is not continuous, but takes place only at the time of micturition. If the opening is small and the urethra free, the quantity of urine which passes into the rectum is very trifling, and sometimes reduced to a few drops ; in the con- trary case, the greater part of the urine escapes by the rectum. Although the urine usually flows by the anus at the very moment of micturition, and in the moments which follow it, cases have been seen in which the urine has accu- mulated in the rectum, and has been retained there for a greater or less length of time, as in vesico-rectal fistula. On the other hand, intestinal gases, and fecal matters, especially when they are liquid, escape by the urethra at the time of defecation. Sometimes solid fecal matters, or alimentary foreign bodies, become engaged in the urethra and are expelled by the meatus, after more or less violent efforts, accompanied by acute pains and even retention of urine. In some cases of very large fistula, the escape of spermatic fluid by the rectum lias been observed at the moment of ejaculation. In a case reported in the thesis of Devin, on the other hand, the emission of spermatic