URINARY CALCULUS. 162 ber of them have been lying together, and if formed upon a foreign body they often approximate the shape of that body. They are found with hour- glass constrictions—notably where one part of the stone is encysted and another part free in the bladder, and very fantastic, branched shapes are often assumed by renal stones and by vesical phosphatic stones, which branch off sometimes into the ureter and sometimes into the urethra. Surface.—The surface of a calculus may be as smooth as glass, but it is generally rough. This is especially the case in oxalate-of-lime calculi. Phosphatic stones are sometimes quite smooth, sometimes worm-eaten on their surface. Color.—Calculi vary through nearly all shades, from white through yellow to brown with tints of green, up to dark brown, nearly black. The color depends mainly upon urinary pigments, not upon admixture with blood. Size.—Calculi vary from microscopic size upwards. The largest I have seen is the kidney stone removed after death by MacGregor.1 It measured 16-f by 12§ inches in its two circumferences. Several others, vesical stones, of about the same circumference have been recorded. A stone one inch in diameter is considered surgically a medium-sized stone (Thompson), all below being small, and all above large. Weight.—This also varies from a fraction of a grain upwards. Gross refers to stones extracted by lithotomy, weighing as little as four, five, six, eight, or ten grains. Gross and Coulson have each removed a five-grain stone, and Ashhurst one of less than two grains, from a boy, by lithotomy. On the other hand, stones have been found weighing 50 ounces (MacGregor’s weighed in the fresh state 51 ounces), while there is one stone on record, said by Coulson to have been in the possession of the French lithotomist Morand, which weighed 6 pounds and 3 ounces. The largest stone ever removed from the bladder successfully, of which I find any record, was a stone of over 20 ounces, removed after fragmentation by Dunlap, of Springfield, Ohio,2 from a man of 66. The patient lived nearly three years after the operation. Pulido’s scrotal stone of 23J ounces occurred in a successful case, and Graefe’s 26-ounce scrotal stone in another. The largest stone which was ever extracted from a living person, as far as I can ascertain, was a phosphatic concretion measuring 17 inches around its largest circumference, and weighing 40J ounces. This enormous mass was removed from a man of 39 by the supra-pubic operation. Uytterhoeven, of Brussels, was the operator. The patient died eight days afterwards. Leroy d’Etiolles records the case.3 Among other cases of very large stone removed by the supra-pubic opera- tion—with a fatal result in each and every instance—are the often-quoted historical examples of Vitellius, 22 ounces, and Deguise, 31 ounces, as well as the more recent ones—also fatal—of Monod, 346 grammes (nearly a pound), and of Despres, the elder, two pounds.4 A rather large stone of pure cystine, and notable on that account, with diameters 2| x If x 1 and a circumference of 7 inches, weighing a little more than 24 ounces, is recently reported5 to have been successfully removed by John Treameane, in Australia, by the high operation. Consistence.—Oxalate of lime forms the hardest variety of stone. It is difficult to break, and fractures in angular fragments from the centre. The phosphatic calculi form in flakes and in a mortar-like mass. They are nearly ' Am. Journal of Med. Sci., Jan. 1877, p. 120. 2 Gross’s System of Surgery, 6th ed., vol. ii. p. 752. 3 Traite pratique de la gravelle, etc., 2e ed., p. 95. Paris, 1869. 4 Bull, de la Soc. de Chir., 5 Dec. 1881, p. 758. 5 Australian Med. Journ., and Journal of Am. Med. Assoc., Dec. 8, 1883, p. 649.