591 ANOMALIES OF THE TESTICLE. The most common reason for operating for varicocele, is to relieve the patient of a complaint, which, although of no great importance, is attended with a good deal of neuralgic pain, and which distracts his attention and causes more mental worry than its presence warrants. The case is often associated with spermatorrhoea, and the patient is distressed by the fear that he will become impotent. The disease is attended with softening of the testicle in some cases. A dislike to wear a truss or a suspensory bandage, which men find irksome, is an inducement to some to undergo an operation not in itself formidable, attended by little pain, and usually free from danger. As in operations on the veins of the legs, the radical, treatment of varicocele may be practised in order to enable a man to enter the public service, or to follow some particular calling. Anomalies of the Testicle. Anomalies in Number of Testicles.—Cases have been reported in which persons have been said to have supernumerary testicles, but they have not been verified by post-mortem examination, and the swellings have probably been due to the presence of hydroceles or tumors of various kinds. In the Museum of St. Thomas’s Hospital is preserved a supposed “ third testicle” which was removed from the body of a physician ; it is not a testicle, but a fibrous tumor. On post-mortem examination of a case, Blasius states that he found two testicles on the right side, which resembled in all respects the left testicle. An artery coming from the aorta went to each of them, and each had a vein which went to the vena cava.1 In some cases one or both testicles are absent from the scrotum; this may be due to the retention of the organ or organs in the abdominal cavity (cryp- torchidism) or to their atrophy or congenital absence (anorchidism). In some cases the gland is absent, in others the gland and the epididymis, and in some there is no trace of the organ or of its vas deferens or vesicula seminalis. Dr. Fisher, of Boston, has narrated2 the case of a man who had no testicles, and whose cerebellum was abnormally small. Mr. Curling says that, in a case communi- cated to him by Mr. Page, of Carlisle, the sole testicle possessed by the man was hyper- trophied. A case is recorded by Geoffroy St. Hilaire in which the scrotum was bifid and empty; and the two suprarenal capsules, as well as the two kidneys and the two testicles, were joined together upon the middle line (synorchidism). The spermatic vessels, vesiculae seminales, and vasa deferentia were normally situated. The child was registered as a female, and lived to be eighteen months old.3 The vas deferens may fail in becoming united to the testicle in some in- stances ; in others it fails to communicate with the vesicula seminalis, or, communicating with the vesicula seminalis, does not enter the urethra; sometimes it is unattached at both ends. Sir James Paget4 explains the fact that the testicle may be normal and the vas deferens abnormal, and the con- verse of this condition, by reference to the development of the parts. The testicle is developed independently of the apparatus which serves as the duct of the gland, and it is owing to this independent development that the testicle does not atrophy when its duct is defective, owing to disease, injury, or con- genital malformation. In 1823 Sir A. Cooper5 divided the vas deferens on one side, and the spermatic artery and vein upon the other, in a dog. The testis, upon that side on which the artery 1 Obs. Med. Anat. 2 American Journal of the Medical Sciences, 0. S., vol. xxiii. p. 352. 3 Hist, des Anomal. de l’Organisme, t. i. p. 542. A London Medical Gazette, vol. xxviii. p. 818. 6 Hunterian Museum, Specimen 2455.