THE CAESAREAN SECTION AND ITS SUBSTITUTES. 768 aperture being made of sufficient largeness, then to pass the end of a male catheter through a puncture made in the membranes, to draw off the liquor amnii, etc., so that an effusion thereof may not gush into the general cavity of the abdomen.” These views of the author were based upon the fact that a patient of Dr. Andrew Douglas, who had ruptured her uterus transversely above its connection with the vagina on September 12,1784, had made a good recovery, the rent being observed to have much diminished after delivery. Dr. Johnson was also the originator of pelvic drainage, at least in theory, for at the time there was no way to carry it out. In the first edition of his work (1769), page 305, he writes, concerning the Coesareau operation: “Could an aperture lie made with safety at the bottom of the pelvis when hysterotomy is performed, in order to give vent to those humors, the probability of the mother’s recovery would then I think be greater; but how such an open- ing can be effected, I will not take upon me to determine; nay, indeed, I must confess that I think it hardly possible.” (4) Sanger’s Process.1—The originator of this method presented his ideas, with illustrations, in December, 1881, in a 200-page monograph which ap- peared in Leipsic in 1882 since which date the modification has been several times tested successfully. The plan of operation is as follows : The abdomen is incised as usual and two strong ligatures are passed through the margins of the wound near its upper commissure, to be drawn upon as a bridle after turning out the uterus ; the membranes are then ruptured through the vagina, and, if practicable, the uterus is lifted out and held vertically. A sheet of caoutchouc, moistened with a 5-per-cent, solution of carbolic acid, is next made to inclose the cervix and cover the abdomen, to protect its cavity against the entrance of fluid. The ligatures are now drawn upon to close the abdominal opening around the cervix, while the uterus is incised longi- tudinally in front and the foetus is removed. If the uterus is not turned out, manual compression is to be made as a haemostatic upon its lower seg- ment. If opened after being turned out, manual compression is likewise used, or clamps are applied to the broad ligaments, or an elastic tube to the cervico-uterine cone, after the plan of Esmarch. After evacuating the uterus, any hemorrhage from the wound is to be checked with.htemostatic pincettes. When the uterus is well contracted, a utero-vaginal drainage-tube is passed, and a carbolized sponge is introduced into the uterine cavity. Next, the perito- neum is dissected free from the muscular layer around the uterine wound, and from the latter, on either side, is pared a long slice of tissue of a wedge- shape, having the thick edge next to the peritoneum, and the thin edge next to the uterine cavity. The free edges of the peritoneum are now turned in over the muscular layer, and deep-seated stitches of silver-wire or silk are inserted, so as to penetrate the peritoneal and muscular coats while avoiding the mucous coat. Then superficial stitches are inserted at short intervals, so as to secure the turned-in peritoneum and keep its serous sur- faces in contact, making a secure welt. The abdominal wound is closed and dressed as after an ovariotomy. Dr. G. Leopold, of Dresden, has performed this operation five times, saving four women and all of the children. His first operation was upon a rachitic woman, 29 years of age, and commenced as soon as the bag of waters had well descended. The operation required an hour in its performance, and the woman recovered in three weeks. She was operated upon at Leipsic, on May 25, 1882.2 The child was living in 1.884. Another patient was operated upon by Dr. O. Beumer, of Greifswald, and died in * Archiv fur Gynakol., Bd. xix. Heft 3, S. 397. 1882. 2 Ibid., S. 400-450.