INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE PENIS. 535 Congenital Adhesion and Incurvation of the Penis.—In these cases the penis, with the exception, in some instances, of the glans, is inclosed within the scrotum, a webbed condition of the organ resulting. The urine, instead of being projected clear from the body, flows over the scrotum, and, when erection takes place, the corpora cavernosa arch forwards under the skin, and any semen emitted flows downwards, the patient being in consequence impotent. In these cases the surgeon must set free the organ by dissection, planning his incisions so that a covering for the liberated penis may be obtained from the loose, abundant skin of the scrotum, and bearing in mind that the covering must be ample, as the skin is very elastic and freely shrinks when it has been dissected up. Mr. Erichsen liberated a man’s penis by cutting through the then Iran which tied it down. Torsion of the Penis is occasionally noticed :— Mr. John Gay’s case was that of a healthy child, aged 8 months. The penis, which was epispadic, had undergone torsion in its axis, so that the under surface presented upwards and to the left, and the child passed his urine towards or even over the left shoulder. The prepuce was ample, and hung in a fold from the penis, which looked as if during foetal life it had passed through the side of the prepuce some third of an inch behind its orifice, which had been preternaturally closed; the crura of the penis could not be traced.1 M. Follin reports a similar case:2 the boy was 12 years old, had complete epispadia, and the body of the penis was so twisted that “ sa face superieure regardait en haut et a gauche.” The frsenum had a long prepuce attached to it. M. Verneuil3 and M. Guerlain4 narrate cases of complete torsion of the penis, in which the under surface became uppermost, and the urethra occupied the antero-superior surface of the organ. Hypertrophy of the corpora cavernosa is more common than their atrophy or absence, which are very rare. The glans penis is impervious in cases of deficiency of the corpus spongiosum, the urethra opening on the anterior sur- face of the scrotum. When erect, the organ curves with its convexity up- wards. The place of the corpus spongiosum is taken by a firm fibrous hand. This fibrous cord may be divided, and the condition of the penis improved, but the urethra will remain as before; the patient is necessarily impotent. In some cases the prepuce is over-developed, and in others it is congenitally deficient or but partially developed ; in some instances it is cleft, and in others adherent to the surface of the glans, and cases have been met with in which the prepuce was adherent to the orifice of the urethra. Absence of the prepuce is of rare occurrence, but nevertheless an operation has been proposed and practised, which has for its object the covering of the glans penis with skin, in order to increase its sensibility, which is lessened by the friction to which it is exposed when the foreskin is wanting. The prepuce provided by surgical skill is at best but an indifferent one. When the prepuce is irregularly developed, it may hang in nodular masses of integu- ment above, below, or at the sides of the penis, and may interfere with sexual intercourse. It is a simple matter to remove the tags of skin and to stitch the margins left by the incisions neatly together. Congenital division of the prepuce sometimes exists. The simplest treatment is to remove the triangular portions formed by the cleft, but, if preferred, the edges may be pared and brought together as in a case of harelip. Other Malformations of the Penis.—The urethra may fail to open at the glans penis, being absent or blocked by a membrane ; or further back it may be converted into a fibrous cord. When atresia is present, a puncture is to be 1 Trans. Path. Soc. Lend., vol. xvi. p. 189. 2 L’Union Medical, 30 Sept. 1862. 3 Bull, de la Society de Chirurgie, 1859. 4 Bull, de la Soeiete Anatomique, 1859.