MALFORMATIONS AND MALPOSITIONS OF THE BLADDER. 335 at about 1^ inches from the meatus. The pervious ureter was largely dilated, being described as like a coil of child’s small intestine, contracted above at its connection with the kidney, and constricted below before joining the urethra. Dr. Oliver remarks, “a certain amount of natural or spasmodic contraction at this point would prevent a con- tinual dribbling away of urine, and thus allow more comfort to the patient.” I refer to this case, and take it in conjunction with what is sometimes ob- served as a consequence of stricture or prostatic obstruction of long standing, where the ureters may almost be said to have become subsidiary bladders, as suggesting another direction in which something might be done to render less intolerable the condition of persons laboring under this deformity. Two-cavity bladders, or, more correctly speaking, bladders with a septum, have been described. Other instances, in which a bladder has had subsidiary bladders connected with it, have also been referred to as varieties of malfor- mation. These, however, are for the most part the result of disease, and will receive consideration hereafter, when sacculation of the bladder is discussed. Under this heading I may mention a remarkable case of double bladder, which is recorded by Dr. A. P. Smith, of Baltimore.1 The patient complained of irritation, in connection with micturition. On examining him it was discovered that he had a double penis, with bladders to correspond, and his symptoms were explained by the presence of a stone in one of the bladders, whilst the other was healthy. Lithotomy was successfully performed. Van Buren2 describes a similar deformity. Exstrophy or Extroversion of the Bladder.—I will now proceed to notice the commonest form of abnormality, extroversion of the bladder. Here not only does the bladder protrude, in appearance like a fungating mass, through the abdominal parietes, but its anterior wall, as well as the pubic symphysis, are both wanting. Below the bladder, in the male, a short penis usually projects, on the dorsum of which is a shallow gutter representing the uninclosed urethra. From the orifices of the ureters, which can be plainly seen at the lower part of the mucous surface, the urine constantly drips over the scrotum and adjacent parts, excoriating the skin, saturating the clothes of the unfortunate victim, and giving rise to a most unpleasant urinous smell. There are greater and lesser degrees of the deformity. The remaining parts of the generative apparatus—viz., the prostate, vesiculae seminales, and tes- ticles—are usually present, but in a somewhat rudimentary condition. In such persons an inguinal hernia on one or both sides is commonly met with. Sexual desire is more or less present, with, of course, incapacity for its natural gratification. In some recorded cases this has greatly added to the misery of the patient, and has suggested the propriety of emasculation by removal of the testicles. In the female the nature of the deformity is analo- gous, but instances of it are much less frequently met with than in the male.3 Treatment.—The operations which have been devised for the purpose of remedying this distressing condition may be divided into two classes: one, having for its object the diversion of the stream of urine into the lower bowel, so as to utilize the rectum as a common cloaca; the other, or plastic method, in which the scrotal and abdominal integuments are used not only 1 Transactions of the Medical and Chirurgical Faculty of the State of Maryland, April, 1878. 2 Op. cit. p. 5. 3 In an interesting account of the dissection of a specimen of this malformation, McWhinnie has referred to some important physiological experiments which the nature of the deformity per- mitted ; amongst these may he mentioned, as appropriate to the subject-matter of this article, that asparagus was found to affect the odor of the urine in eight and a half minutes, and tur- pentine in four and a half minutes. (London Medical Gazette, March 1, 1850.)