278 URINARY CALCULUS. In cases of deep perineum also, where the bladder is so far away that the forceps cannot readily grasp the stone, the latter may he pushed down within reach by means of firm pressure made by the hand upon the hypogastrium. 7. Enlarged Lobe of the Prostate.—When the prostate is so large as to form a bas-fond in which the stone lies, the latter may be readily seized by the curved forceps, or the stone may be lifted out of its pouch by a finger in the rectum—the operator’s finger, to avert an accident which occurred to Des- champs, who seized in his forceps the finger of the assistant who was trying to elevate the stone. When a third lobe is prominent, it may he accidentally pinched off and drawn away in the bite of the forceps, or may be deliberately removed as a step in the operation. I have done this with the etfect of re- storing to the patient the power of urination without a catheter, a power which he had totally lost for four years. Many operators speak well of the practice, while others condemn it. I believe the weight of authority to be in its favor. Sometimes, in incising a large prostate, one of the central, encapsulated, muscular tumors which at times form part of the growth is cut into, liberated from its capsule, and extracted, either designedly or by accident, in the jaws of the forceps. Such an accident in most reported examples does not seem to have interfered with the happy progress of the case, but in one instance Gross1 believed that the cavity which was left behind became a sup- purating pouch, and increased the difficulty of urination. 8. Tumor.—When a tumor or fungus is encountered in the bladder, as a complication of stone, if it can be safely removed it should be taken away with forceps or the sharp spoon, as a final step in the operation. 9. Failure to find Stone after Lithotomy.—Sometimes the stone is so small that the gush of urine when the bladder is first opened washes out the con- cretion, which may be lost among the blood-clots, sponges, or towels. Such an accident has been most often noted in the case of small children, in whom the bladder contracts vigorously and in whom the cut is relatively free. With modern means of measuring the calculus such an accident ought seldom to occur; certainty never in the case of an adult, from whom so small a cal- culus could he more appropriately removed by litholapaxy. Occasionally the stone lies shrouded in a blood-clot or thick layer of mucus upon the floor of the bladder, and so escapes detection. An efficient search with the finger or forceps will, however, detect a movable foreign body and overcome the embarrassment. Finally, the stone may not be found because it does not exist. The names of Cheselden, Roux, Dupuytren, Crosse, and many others distinguished in the history of lithotomy, have been coupled with failures of this sort. Modern means of diagnosis should render this accident impossible. 10. Abnormal Position of the Stone. (a) The complication caused by the stone lodging in the bas-fond of the bladder has been already considered under the head of enlarged prostate. (b) Stone entrapped by Muscular Contraction.—If the bladder be large, and with thin, atonied walls, the stone may become entrapped in some of the loose vesical folds during the collapse which occurs as the water rushes out, and may thus elude a hasty search. Distention of the bladder with warm water, and search with blunt instruments and small, smooth forceps, will dislodge the stone without injury to the vesical wall. If the bladder as a whole con- tracts down forcibly upon the stone, anaesthesia should be pushed, and a curette or the scoop employed. Sometimes the bladder is in a state of hour-glass contraction, retaining the stone at the top of the fundus ; or a partial contraction may retain it firmly 1 Trans. Path. Society of Phila., vol. iv. p. 153.