SCROFULO-TUBERCULOUS AFFECTIONS OF BONES. 911 cause which in this case produces the necrosis acts with extreme slowness; 2d, because as the inflammation continues to propagate itself to the neigh- boring parts, the boundary between the healthy and the diseased portion is constantly receding, so that the circle of elimination cannot form/’ Nelaton says that two sequestra may wear each other away if they rub together. This must be a rare occurrence, and the loss of tissue of not much importance. Puriform infiltration gives rise to abscesses which make their appearance either on the surface of the bones or at the joints. But it does not generally have as an accompaniment slow abscesses by congestion, like the encysted form. The description and the considerations, of which the formation, the course, and the termination of abscesses dependent upon encysted tubercle of bone have already jieen the subject, apply to abscesses from tuberculous infiltration, with this difference: that infiltration usually sets up a more acute and prompt reaction. Nevertheless it sometimes proceeds by slow steps, and may remain latent for a very long time. It may happen that the centres of infiltration are discovered only by accident, at an autopsy. This happened in the case of a child, four years old, who died of tuberculous meningitis at La Charite, where he had been admitted for a tibio-tarsal white swelling. M. Gan- golphe, wishing to know if the patient had not tubercles in other bones than those of the foot, made sections of the whole skeleton, and found in FiS- 1445- the head of the left femur, which was apparently perfectly healthy, a tuberculous nodule which ap- peared to be on the point of open- ing into the joint, which was also still free from disease. I give in Fig. 0003 a representation of this section. In spite of the presence of a por- tion of dead bone which was begin- ning to be detached, there was as yet no articular involvement. The spe- cimen presents also an interesting example of perforation by destruc- tion of the epiphyseal cartilage. We have seen that during the reign of dualism—-the overturning of which is in great part due to M. Grancher, and partly also to MM. Thaon and L&pine — the tuber- culous infiltration of Nelaton was regarded as a simple caseous ostei- tis. Even now there are still a certain number of opponents of his views, among whom is M. Gosselin. Cornil and Ranvier, to mention only the most classical histologists, admit them, with restrictions which have not the significance at the present time, as far as caries is concerned, that they had ten years ago. In their view the tuberculous infiltration of Nekton corresponds to various lesions : osteitis, caries, with caseous trans- formation of the medullary or purulent elements, and syphilitic gummata; but they recognize also a true tuberculous infiltration resulting from the presence in the bone-tissue of confluent tuberculous granulations. They describe these in the following way: Their size does not equal that of isolated granulations (less than from one to two millimetres in diameter), Tuberculous nodule with latent sequestrum of the head of the left femur. Child four years old. A, A, tubercu- lous sequestrum ; B, fragment of the connecting cartilage, constituting part of the sequestrum ; C, caseo-tibrous mate- rial surrounding the sequestrum ; D, lamella of bone-tissue forming the wall about to give way on the side of the joint; E, capsule of the joint; F, connecting cartilage, a part of which constitutes part of the sequestrum.