551 AFFECTIONS OF THE SCROTUM. Dr. Lewis says that the immature animal does not burst its chorional envelope, but that it stretches this, so that after a time, and before it escapes from the vagina of the parent, its shell becomes its sheath. Dr. Manson’s theory is that if from some cause or another the embryonic filaria sanguinis hominis is hurried prematurely into the lymph before the stretching of the chorion commences, the consequence to the human host will be serious. In its unextended condition, the ovum measures gig" x Tl^", its smallest diameter being thus five times as great as that of the fully formed outstretched embryo. It passes along with the lymph-stream until it is arrested in a lymphatic too small to allow it to pass, when it blocks the tube, effectually damming up the lymph. Dr. Manson1 discovered the parent worm in the scrotum from a case of lymph-scrotum, from which exuded a thin, clear, straw-colored fluid which showed that there had been no regurgitation through glands; and, as no embryos could be found in the blood, but only in the lymph, they must have come from a parasite on the distal side of the inguinal glands, probably in the scrotum. Dr. Manson thinks that all the phenomena of elephantoid disease may be explained by the theory that the parent parasite is the prime cause, premature birth of the worm the second, and infarction of the lymphatic glands by the ova the immediate cause. I11 this case the parasite was found in situ in a lymphatic vessel. Treatment.—The febrile attacks are to be treated on general principles, with salines, etc.; at a later period, tonics, especially quinine and arsenic, have been given, as also iodine ; but the most potent prescription is a change of climate. Operative interference removes at once a distressing local condition, and a mass which keeps up constitutional irritation. Sir Joseph Fayrer removes the tumor by incisions along the course of the cords and the dorsum of the penis. The cord, testicles, and penis are turned out by a few touches of the knife, and are then reflected and held up on the abdomen, while the mass of the tumor is rapidly swept away by a few bold incisions in the perineum. All bleeding points, whether arterial or venous, are to be tied, hlo integument is to be saved, as it is unnecessary, and is likely to give rise to a recurrence of the disease. Antiseptic dressings are to be used, and in a few months the wounds will have cicatrized. Esmarch’s elastic bandage and constricting cord are of the greatest value. Compression of the abdominal aorta by Sir Joseph Lister’s abdominal tourniquet, or by Mr. Richard Davy’s aortic lever, is to be used. Before the operation, care must be taken to reduce any rupture that may be present, to elevate the part, to make pressure on it by the elastic band- age, and to apply ice. The part has been clamped in some instances before removal; the ordinary or galvanic ecraseur may be found useful in some cases, but the operation described above, when rapidly performed, is very satisfactory. The penis is always to be preserved, and the testicles in all but very large tumors ; the introduction of Esmarch’s bloodless method of operating facilitates their preservation. Lymph-scrotum much resembles elephantiasis scroti, andis caused by the same conditions. The local changes are due to an enlargement of the inguinal glands, arresting the circulation through the lymphatics, and causing a varicose and dilated condition of these vessels. Rindfleisch2 considers lymph-scrotum to be a variety of elephantiasis, and calls it “pachydermia lvmpbangiectatica.” The vesicles are cavities in the uppermost layers of the cutis itself, are caused by partial ampulliform dilatation of the superficial subpapillary network of lymphatic vessels, and are lined with characteristic endothelial cells. The unstriped muscular fibres are developed in excess, and hinder the circulation of the lymph in the substance of the corium proper. 1 Lancet, Jan. 1881; China Customs Med. Rep., 20th issue; Trans. Path. Soc. London, vol. xxxii. 1881. 2 Rindfleisch, Manual of Pathological Histology, etc., New Syd. Soc., vol. i. p. 380.