vol. vi.—69 ( 1089 ) APPENDIX. CONSTRUCTION AND ORGANIZATION OF HOSPITALS. BY EDWARD COWLES, M.D.. SUPERINTENDENT OF THE MCLEAN ASYLUM, SOMERVILLE, MASSACHUSETTS. History of Hospitals. In considering the general question of hospital construction and organiza- tion, the history of the subject is of great interest, as showing the gradual evolution of the principles accepted at the present time. From the earliest recorded accounts of humane provision for the sick and suffering, through periods of advancement and retrogression, we may find from time to time the germs, and trace the growth, of present ideas, which have been formulated only within a comparatively few years into the system of construction now accepted. The first hospitals on record are said to have been established by Buddhist priests in Hindostan, two or three centuries before Christ. These disappeared with the restoration of the Brahminical religion, and such hospitals were not again seen in India until the advent of the British. There are only scattered and uncertain notices of hospitals for the sick in Asiatic, Greek, and Homan history. The many temples of AEsculapius that existed for several centuries before the Christian era, were resorted to for miraculous interference against the anger of some supernatural power which the ancients universally believed to be the cause of all disease. Recent archaeological discoveries have revealed records of such cures in the temple at Epidaurus, as early as the end of the fifth century B. C., about which time conflicting opinions on science and religion arose among the Greek philosophers. The Roman hospitiurn was a place for the reception and shelter of strangers, rich or poor, and for a long- time there were few establishments for invalids ; but in the fourth century hospitals were commonly known, and in the ninth century there were twen- ty-four in Rome alone. There are some earlier suggestions of the principle of military hospitals, in the provision made by some of the great Roman generals for the removal of the sick and wounded from camp to the nearest towns before a battle; and by having chariots follow the army on the march for conveying the wounded, the modern ambulance was anticipated. The first actual attempt at the establishment of military hospitals may be assigned to the time of the Crusades. The first hospital for the insane, on record, was established at Jerusalem,