718 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE FEMALE GENITALS. 1 Hegar und Kaltenbacli, op. cit. the anterior vaginal wall and watching it for a few minutes, the observer will see the urine escaping, usually not far from the cervix—below it and a little to one or the other side—in small, intermittent jets; and a fine probe may be introduced through this opening into the ureter. If there be an escape of urine from the os uteri, and on the other hand no similar escape of fluid injected into the bladder, the conclusion is that the fistula is uretero-uterine. Complications.—There may be cicatrices in the vagina, narrowing the canal so that even complete exposure of the fistula is impossible ; the uterus may be displaced; the vaginal portion of the cervix may be more or less completely destroyed; peri-metritis or para-metritis may have followed the original injury, resulting in “ thickening and nodosities in the ligaments, and adhesions between the different pelvic organs.”1 The urethra may be con- tracted or closed. Treatment.—In a few instances, spontaneous cure of a uro-genital fistula has occurred ; Emmet mentions two such cases, in which the patients entered the hospital immediately after delivery, the fistula being large enough to permit the introduction of the finger ; in each case the opening closed within a month, no treatment but the use of warm water injections having been employed. Emmet believes that such injections, properly applied, wonld cause the closure of many of these openings, and that in*every instance the sloughing process would be arrested. The curative treatment, which most uro-genital fistula; require when they come under the care of the surgeon, consists in denudation of the borders of the fistula, and their union by sutures. Of course, all complications which would interfere with the performance or the success of the operation, as well as local inflammation, must be first removed. The closed urethra, for ex- ample, must be reopened; calcareous deposits, whether intra-vesical or intra- vagina!, must be taken away; the borders of the fistula must be brought into a healthy condition by frequent warm-water injections, and by occasional applications of a solution of nitrate of silver. Where the vagina is narrowed by cicatrices, these should be divided with scissors, and subsequent contraction should be prevented, as well as absorption of cicatricial tissue promoted, by means of suitable vaginal dilators; Boze- man has especially made known the importance of this part of the prepara- tory treatment, and has instituted a method which has greatly contributed to the success of his operations. Attention must also be given to the patient’s general health. Position of Patients ; Instruments; Sutures, and Methods of Fastening them. —Those who follow the method of the late Dr. J. Marion Sims cause the patient to lie upon her side. Simon directed that she should lie upon her back, while Bozeman has an apparatus to which she is fastened in the genu-pectoral position. In the first position Sims’s speculum is used, in the second Simon’s, and in the third Bozeman’s. Tenacula, or tenaculum- forceps, scissors or knives for freshening the fistulous margins, sponge-holders and sponges, needles and needle-holders, and material for sutures, are to .be at hand. Scissors are generally preferred to knives for paring the fistulous edges, and silver wire for the sutures, though Simon, whose success was remark- able, used Chinese silk for this purpose. Silk sutures of course are tied. Most operators who use wire, secure the sutures by twisting, but Bozeman uses a perforated disk of metal, through which the ends of the sutures are