URINARY CALCULUS. 298 safely removed by crushing and washing out the fragments, where the stone is so large that it cannot be seized, or so hard that it cannot be crushed after having been caught, and, finally, where the bladder is very irritable, much in- flamed or ulcerated, or contains a tumor as well as a stone, and where it is deemed wiser to leave the organ totally at rest after the operation. In such cases vaginal cystotomy is preferable to litholapaxy. Sometimes in connec- tion with stone there is incontinence of urine, and water thrown into the bladder immediately returns through the urethra. In such a case, if the blad- der does not become more passive under profound anaesthesia, the operation may still be safely performed with a small smooth lithotrite and a straight tube for washing. I have operated successfully upon female subjects at both extremes of life, in a child of four years and in an old lady past sixty. The operative manoeuvres are the same as in the male, but much simpler. A finger in the vagina may greatly aid the operator. The straight tube gives the most effective return to the washing bottle, but a curved tube may be used. The female urethra is so easily dilatable that a very large tube will pass. The after-care involves rest, and perhaps vesical irrigation, with the administration of a little anodyne for a few days. Vaginal Lithotomy.—This operation is at present a favorite one for the extraction of stone from the female bladder, in those cases which cannot be dealt with by litholapaxy. The dependent opening can be made amply large, the bladder is drained through it effectively, the operation is safe and successful. The mortality, according to Aveling’s1 statistics collected in 1864, is about 3 per cent.—1 out of 35 cases. Vidal had 30 cases without a death, but be complained that fistula often followed. Agnew2 credits 48 operations to American surgeons with two deaths. In both these cases the stone was very large. Rousset appears to have been the first to devise and perform the operation near the end of the sixteenth century. Fabricius Hildanus fol- lowed in the seventeenth. Bussiere, in 1699, took out by this method a stone weighing five ounces and a half. Mery, m 1700, described the opera- tion, and many others followed, but the fear of permanent vesico-vaginal fistula caused it to be received with caution, and to be absolutely rejected by many surgeons. According to Velpeau, permanent fistula remains in one case out of every four operated upon. In order to overcome this tendency to persistent fistula, attempts have been made to effect immediate closure of the wound, and a number of successes have been recorded, so that this method has with many come to be looked upon as a good one. This position is, however, not accepted by American gynaecologists of the present day. Emmet says that the vesical wound heals promptly "after incision, if the bladder be irrigated and if incrustation of the cut edges with ammonio-magnesian deposits be prevented. He takes the ground that the wound is liable to close too promptly for the good of the bladder, that is, before the chronic inflammation has subsided, and he has recently devised a means of retaining the incision permanently open until it is the will of the surgeon to close it. This means3 is the attachment of the mucous membrane of the bladder to that of the vagina, along the entire length of the incision on both sides, bj- points of fine suture. In this way healing becomes impossible, and the vesico-vaginal fistula remains until the bladder has recovered, after which it is closed by the usual method. In speaking of this operation, Emmet4 gives to Sims the credit of suggest- ing the propriety of opening the floor of the bladder in the female for the 1 Obstetrical Transactions, vol. v. 1864. 2 Op cit., vol. ii. p. 695. 3 Oral communication. 4 Principles and Practice of Gynaecology, p. 728. 1879.