APPENDIX. 1172 century (852-932). He was thoroughly educated to the profession, having been the chief of an immense hospital at Bagdad, having also travelled into many lands, the better to acquaint himself with all diseases, and being well versed in the literature of the healing art. While it is not probable that he had ever dissected the human body, still some nice anatomical points are noted in his works. In treating of the operation for fistula lachrymalis, he cautions against wounding the external or anterior branch of the ophthalmic nerve—a branch not mentioned by any of the Greek writers—and in modern times particularly pointed out by Willis. Blood-letting was in vogue in the days of Rhazes; he describes all the four methods, viz., venesection, arterio- tomy, cupping, and leeching. He is the first to describe all the varieties of the leech, with directions for their preservation, use, and mode of application. Rhazes has much to say concerning resection and exsection of diseased bones, and goes so far as to remove the entire tibia, or the os brachii, when they are carious, but forbids meddling with the head of the femur or the vertebrae. In fact, the entire field of surgery and the whole range of surgical operations as taught by the Greeks and Romans were adopted by the Ara- bians. Rhazes’s directions for the use of the catheter are more minute and ample than those of any previous writer. lie is the first to say that it is best to have openings in the sides of the catheter, as being less likely to be obstructed by clots. He also mentions that he in some cases used a ductile catheter, made of lead, which accommodated itselftothe urethral passage; and, that in still more difficult cases he resorted to puncture of the bladder. As an evidence of his personal experience, he tells us that he had successfully treated a thousand cases of sciatica by bleeding freely from the veins of the leg, and by the use of sharp clysters. Rhazes was the first to describe spina ventosa and spina bifida. lie also wrote an entire treatise on the diseases of children. It is not to be understood that surgery in the days of Rhazes was generally practised with the skill which the works of this eminent practitioner taught. On the contrary, he was a shining light, while the art, for the most part, was in the hands of ignorant men and downright impostors; in fact, he wrote a chapter “ of impostors,”1 to show the degraded character of surgical quacks, and as a caution to the public against their malpractice. He also wrote a chapter on the selection of a proper physician, in which he says: “ Study carefully the antecedents of the man to whose care you propose confiding all you have most dear in the world ; that is to say, your health, your life, and the health and lives of your wife and children.” It is certain that lithotomy, and probable that many other operations, were almost exclusively in the hands of itinerant and unprincipled impostors. Haly Abbas flourished during the latter part of the tenth century (930- 994). He too was born in Persia, and dwelt most of his time in Bagdad. His works, written in Arabic, exercised a long and potential influence in mediaeval times. He collected a large number of observations from his ex- tensive experience in hospitals, and laid it down as the cardinal requisite of ail young physicians, to avail themselves of the clinical advantages afforded by those" institutions. Here, he remarks, they will see diseases in their true light, which the books describe in a manner little approaching to nature. "He approves of excision of strumous glands, and describes the mode of operating. In cases of distended bursse mucosse, or ganglions, as Haly Abbas calls them, he first uses discutients, and if these fail to cure, then he would strike the tumor with a hard body, so as to break the cyst.2 Thus it is seen 1 Lib. ad Almansorem, lib. vii. cap. 27. 2 Lib. toiius Med., etc., Pract.,’lib. ix. cap. 10.