HISTORY OF SURGERY. 1181 Medicine and surgery were usurped by the priesthood during the greater part of the dark ages. The monks drove a thriving and lucrative business for centuries, by combining the medical and ecclesiastical professions. Their ignorance was only equalled by their cupidity and venality. The Popes and Holy Councils had a hard struggle for more than a hundred years, in their efforts to emancipate medicine and surgery from the grasp of mercenary monks and priests who had formed this miserable alliance, and who had maintained their bold for so many ages after their invasion of the profession to which they had no claims, and for which they had no scientific affinity or adaptability. The Lateran Council, under Pope Calistus II., A. D. 1123, forbade their attendance at the bedside of the sick, otherwise than as minis- ters of religion. Again, Innocent II., in a council at Rheims, A. D. 1131, enforced the decree prohibiting the monks attending the schools of medicine. The pertinacity of the priesthood, however, obliged the Lateran Council, in 1139, to threaten all who neglected its orders with the severest penalties “neglecting the sacred objects of their own profession, and holding out the delusive hope of health in exchange for ungodly lucre.” At Tours, in 1163, the Council, under Pope Alexander III., again stigmatized and denounced these priest-physicians. “In 1215, Innocent III. fulminated an anathema specially directed against surgery, by ordaining that, as the church abhorred all cruel or sanguinary practices, no priest should be permitted to follow surgery, or to perform any operations in which either instruments of steel or fire were employed; and that they should refuse their benediction to all those who professed and pursued it.”1 Medicine was at last effectually divorced from theology by a special bull procured from the Pope, which permitted physicians to marry. During all the ages that the healing art was held and practised by the priest-physicians, its degradation was extreme and disgraceful to the last degree. The most absurd reports were made of miraculous cures, attested by monks, abbots, bishops, popes, and consecrated saints. They alleged that they had restored the blind, the epileptic, the insane, etc. “ The saints of the Romanists have usurped the place of the zodiacal constellations in their governance of the parts of man’s body; for every limbe they have a saint. Thus St. Otilia keepes the head instead of Aries; St. Blasius is appointed to governe the necke instead of Taurus;” and so old Melton goes on to the end of the list. Pettigrew2 gives the names of nearly fifty Roman Catholic saints who were believed to have special control over certain individual diseases, both medical and surgical. The priesthood also assigned saints to wells and springs, to give healing virtues to their waters; instituted health-seeking pilgrimages to these places; introduced charms, relics, and amulets into use, as preven- tives and cures of disease, and altogether prostituted the healing art to priest- craft and quackery. As early as the times of Charlemagne, each of the cathedrals maintained a school, in which writing, arithmetic, singing, theology, and, in some instances also, medicine and surgery, were taught. The Episcopal College of Paris had medical professors who gave advice and treated surgical cases, either at the portals of Notre Dame, or in the interior of the church.3 This was also done in other cities. After the emancipation of the healing art from the hands of the clergy, by the Popes and Councils as above stated, the Episcopal schools were erected into universities, in which the several departments of learning were taught in separate colleges by distinct facul- ties, whose professors devoted themselves to their special branches. In the 1 Pettigrew, On Superstitions connected with the History and Practice of Medicine and Surgery. 2 Op. cit. 3 Renouard, History of Medicine, Am. ed., 1856.