ORTHOPAEDIC SURGERY. 1042 knowledge of those methods will he of great assistance. to the surgeon in selecting the best means by which to relieve what may be described as the irregular forms of foot-distortion, which the limits of this article will not allow me to dwell upon in further detail. There are, however, two condi- tions of the foot not unfrequently met with which may receive separate notice; one of these, commonly called hammer-toe, is as a rule an acquired deformity, hut may be congenital in its origin, while the other, which has been named hallux valgus, results from wearing badly constructed boots. Hammer-toe consists in the contraction of one or more toes into a claw- like position; it most commonly affects the second and third toes. The first phalanx of the contracted toe is drawn upwards on the metatarsal bone, the second phalanx is bent downwards so that the first phalangeal joint is much above the normal level, while the last phalanx is directed forwards, so that the toe presents the condition shown in Fig. 1494. This distortion is a soureeof much discomfort. A bad corn isalways formed Fig. 1494. on the surface of the angular projection formed by the first phalangeal joint, and the last phalanx is generally very tender; trifling as the deformity appears to be, the subject will gladly submit to amputation of the toe if unable to obtain relief by other means. The origin of this distortion is somewhat obscure; like many other Hammer-toe. conditions of foot-distortion, it gives no trouble in its early stage, and is therefore at first neglected; it is more common among girls than among boys, and shows a preference for certain families; it is usually developed early in life, and is probably first started by contraction of the flexor muscles. As regards the treatment of hammer-toe, when the contraction has existed for any length of time, and has become confirmed, it is remarkably troublesome to overcome. The flexor1 tendon must be divided, as must also the lateral ligaments of the first phalangeal joint; by this operation the toe can be straightened even up to adult age, but at a later period the joint surfaces are so changed that com- plete reduction of the distortion is impossible, although it may usually be sufficiently overcome to enable the subject to walk comfortably with a boot made large enough not to press on the front of the foot. After the opera- tion, the toe must be stretched as quickly as possible by means of splints; if two or more toes are affected, a slipper, consisting of a padded metal plate and heel-piece, with slots cut between the toes, so that they can be tied down to the plate, is the most convenient appliance for use in the mechanical treatment. Hallux Yalgus is that condition commonly known as bunion of the great toe; it is caused by wearing tight hoots, which are too short and too narrow to allow the foot to expand properly in walking. The whole foot is sub- jected to pressure, both from side to side and from before backwards, and the toes and metatarsal bones, which are the most flexible parts of the foot, become chiefly affected. The great toe is pushed into an oblique position, its ungual extremity being directed outwards and its metatarsal end pushed backwards and inwards, while the metatarso-phalangeal joint bulges out on the inner border of the foot, and a bunion forms over the surface of the joint; the extensor tendon slips away towards the middle line of the foot, and tends to still further drag the toe out of place. The second and third toes 1 It is somewhat singular that some authorities state that the extensor tendon requires divi- sion ; this is from the nature of the deformity an evident mistake.