URINARY CALCULUS. 218 If, after reasonable time and effort, the putridity of the urine cannot be overcome, or the intensity of the cystitis subdued, then, if any operation is to be done, it must be lithotomy, which not only extracts the offending foreign body, but also drains the bladder, leaves it at rest, and thus affords the best chance for recovery from the cystitis, provided that the cystotomy itself be sustained. (2) Special Preparation just before the Operation.—This preparation is more or less rigorous in detail according to the especial requirements of each case. For a child little or nothing need be done, but in the case of an adult, how- ever seemingly well, no harm can result from taking precautions. The pre- paration is the same for lithotomy and lithotrity, and is to be repeated before each sitting of the latter, if more than one be required. On the morning of the day of operation the patient should remain warm and quiet in his bed, his bowels should be evacuated, and his stomach should be kept empty, if an anaesthetic is to be used. At about three hours before the time of operating he may take ten or fifteen grains of quinine. A few drops of the strong tincture of aconite is thought well of in some quarters, to ward off shock and prevent chill. I have reaped most success in this line from the combination of pilocarpine and morphia. This may be given by the stomach a half hour before operating, but it is more effective if administered subcutaneously just as the operation terminates. The amount of morphine is to be varied from one-sixth of a grain upwards, if the patient has been accus- tomed to use it. Of the muriate of pilocarpine I find a dose of from a tenth to a sixth of a grain ample to produce physiological effects, and I believe it to be quite potent in warding off chill. Before lithotrity, besides all the above-mentioned points of preparatory treatment, the urethra should be gauged to see that there is no obstacle to free instrumentation. The meatus may be attended to at the time of final operation. Anterior stricture should be cut, deep stricture dilated. If dila- tation is impracticable, lithotomy should be performed, and both maladies dealt with at once. It is doubtful whether the old-fashioned practice of “training the’urethra” by the use of sounds passed at intervals is of any value. The risk of exciting complications when the deep urethra is irritated by the presence of stone in the bladder is great, and local sensitiveness of the urethra, if ether is not used, may be so moderated by the preparatory injec- tion of a four-per-cent, solution of cocaine, that it has become unnecessary. The calibre of the urethra must be determined, but nothing more. In litho- trity and in litholapaxy it is good practice, if the urine is at all foul, to draw it off just before the crushing is commenced, and substitute pure water or borated water, in which to do the crushing. Lithotrity. All lithotrity, even that known as the old-fashioned operation, is of modern origin. Surgery owes to the genius of France, and to the present century, ail that is valuable in this admirable operation. In 1817 the instruments were devised by Civiale, with which be proposed to break up a calculus within the bladder, and in 1824, before a special committee appointed by the Academy of Medicine, he operated successfully upon two patients. This is the first systematic and scientific attempt at lithotrity recognized by history. The term lithotrity is etymologically inaccurate, but usage has earned it a fixed position in classical nomenclature. The most probable derivation is from ueoi, a stone; rtpsw, I pierce ; and in this sense the term was entirely apposite, as far as the first operations were concerned, for in them the stone was first seized