285 LITHOTOMY. II. Bilateral Lithotomy.—The bilateral operation of Dupuytren, suitable for the extraction of large stones by the perineum, is performed as follows: The patient is fixed in the ordinary lithotomy position, and the staff, having a median groove, is held centrally. A semi-lunar incision is made crossing the raphe, about one inch (from 22 to 24 millimetres) in front of the anus. The integument, cellular tissue, and anterior fibres of the sphincter are cut. The left index finger is now introduced into the wound and made to depress the rectum, while with short strokes of the knife the surgeon endeavors to free those muscular fibres, a part of the sphincter, which hold the bulb of the urethra attached to the anus. The bulb is now turned up and the finger seeks the membranous urethra far back in the wound. This is to be opened upon the nail, the knife being held transversely, to insure safety to the rectum. The operator now takes the double lithotome cache (Fig. 1267), enters its Fig. 1267. Dupuytren’s double lithotome cach6. point in the groove of the staff, holding the instrument’s convexity upwards. As soon as the lithotome is in the bladder the staff is removed, the blades of the lithotome are protruded, and the instrument is withdrawn, at first horizontally, and then with the handle slightly lowered so as to spare the rectum. As soon as the prostate has been cut through the blades are returned to their sheaths, and the lithotome is withdrawn. The operation of the late James R. Wood, of Hew York, is essentially a pre-rectal, bilateral operation. After the incision is made across the perineum in front of the rectum, and the urethra opened, the cutting part of the opera- tion is terminated by placing the button of the bisector (Fig. 1268) in the cen- tral groove of the staff’. This button is so arranged that the bisector cannot escape after its button has once entered the groove. It is pushed directly onwards into the bladder, cutting the prostate and the vesical neck to a moderate extent transversely. Dilatation does the rest. The stone is extracted in the manner described when speaking of the lateral operation. HI. Median Lithotomy.—The median operation is suitable only for small stones. The staff should have a broad, deep, median groove. The external incision is generally made from without inwards, although most American surgeons prefer the manoeuvre of Allarton,1 who passes the left index finger into the rectum, and steadies the staff with the point of his finger pressed against it at the apex of the prostate. A stiff-backed, straight bistoury, with double cutting point, is then entered into the raphe half an inch in front of the anus and carried directly inwards, aiming for the groove in the staff at the point where it is steadied by the finger in the rectum. The groove is entered at this point, and the apex of the prostate slightly incised. The membranous urethra is cut through as the knife is being withdrawn, and the external wound is enlarged by the same motion, cutting upwards to an 1 A Treatise on Median Lithotomy. London, 1863.