986 TUMORS OF THE BONES. of bone is lacking at certain points, and is replaced by thickened periosteum. In Richet’s case, the internal surface was covered by a reticulated fibrous layer, which Richet compares to the surface of a ribbed bladder. The tumor is single, its size is large, it may hold several litres of fluid. The contents are constantly pure blood, or blood which has undergone different transforma- tions. The vessels are free from change ; injections thrown into the principal arteries fill the cavity. The neighboring articulations are healthy and appear sufficiently protected by the articular cartilage. There is no invasion of the surrounding soft parts. Nature.—According to Breschet, these cases are comparable to those of erectile tumor. Nevertheless, there is found here nothing but an anfrac- tuous cavity filled with liquid or coagulated blood, whilst erectile tumors are formed of a vascular tissue analogous to the cavernous tissue. The same remark is applicable to cirsoid aneurisms. Volkmann admits that the starting-point is the rupture of an artery, whether as the result of a trauma- tism, or in consequence of atheromatous degeneration of its walls. The case would then be one of false aneurism developed in a bone, but this hypo- thesis does not at all explain the opening of multiple vessels in the cavity of the tumor. Volkmann would suppose then, with Lebert and Rokitan- sky, that the sacs result from a telangiectatic transformation of a sarcoma- tous, and especially of a myeloplaxic tumor. If, on the one hand, it be admitted, as E. Nelaton has proved, that the myeloplaxic tumors are benign and may sometimes remain stationary; and, on the other hand, with MM. Monod and Malassez, that the myeloplaxic cells have a part in the formation of vessels, which has led them to call the myeloplaxic tumors angeioplastic tumors, it might be believed that interstitial hemorrhage had begun by press- ing back the tissues of the tumor, and had then determined their atrophy. However, in the cases of Parisot and Richet, there was found only fibrous tissue without any trace of a tumor. It will be seen that there is still much to be desired in our knowledge of the pathological anatomy of this affection. Investigations of a number of points are still necessary in order to establish its nature. Etiology.—Pulsatile tumors of the bones occur oftener in men than in women. They are seen in young patients and in adults. The influence of traumatism is noted positively in four cases out of nine. Symptoms.—The appearance of the growth is sometimes preceded by pain ; when there has been an injury, the disease may start suddenly with acute pain. The tumor forms but a slight elevation, but as it is developed the skin is sometimes seen to become reddened and to be streaked with dilated varicose veins. The consistence is variable; if, at the time of the examination, the tumor is limited by a wall of bone, the sensation caljed parchment-like crepitation may be felt. If the envelope is osteo-fibrous, there will be found some hard and some depressible points. In one case, the skin could be pushed into the cavity of the bone like the finger of a glove. Pulsation, isochronous with the pulse and accompanied by expansile motion, may appear either at the same time as the tumor, or a little later. These two symptoms disappear on compressing the principal artery of the limb. Fluctuation is perceptible only in tumors without a bony envelope. The blowing sound met with by Richet is not usually present. The functional symptoms are as follows: The joint next to the tumor has its movements partly abolished, without being always invaded by the lesion. There are pains in the limbs, caused by com- pression of the nerves. Painful oedema has also been seen, due to pressure upon the veins of the part. The duration of the disease is very variable. In published cases it has varied from three months to seven years.