INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS OF THE BONES. 900 of the suppuration, and by the infective complications which stagnation of pus may cause. They may be insufficient if the section of the bone comes just to the level of the apparent limits of the necrosis, it being possible that the necrotic process may extend secondarily to the inflamed parts. It is necessary, then, if we do not wish to run the risk of seeing a greater or less extent of the end of the bone die, to saw where the hone is perfectly healthy; and even in this latter case we may have secondarily an annular necrosis, if the periosteum has been stripped up too far, and if the wound becomes consecutively the seat of a suppurative inflammation. The rule to leave to Nature the care of limiting and separating necrosed parts, has its drawbacks in certain regions. It has everywhere the disadvan- tage of requiring much time, and of prolonging the period of suppuration. For a long time surgeons have asked themselves if the separation of sequestra ought not to be hastened by scraping, by shelling off, and by perforating, the bone. Belloste, in order to quicken the separation of sequestra of the cra- nium, recommended perforating the dead part with a number of holes, pene- trating to the living part and making it possible for granulations to emerge through the sequestrum and contribute to its absorption. Before the time of antiseptic dressings this method had no advantages, and some compara- tive experiments which I formerly made demonstrated that the separation of sequestra was not hastened, and that there was danger of increasing the necrosis in depth by the simple fact that new wounds were made, which were prone to inflame and to become infected.1 With the antiseptic method we may attack these superficial necroses more boldly, removing the necrosed part promptly with a chisel or raspatory pene- trating to the healthy bone. Poncet has thus accelerated cicatrization of denudations of the cranium.2 In many other regions we should adopt the same plan, lest we should see bone-wounds slowly suppurating for months, when scraping or superficial removal might have cured them in a few days. Sequestrotomy sometimes reduces itself to simple extraction of the seques- trum. The dead bone removed, all returns to order; the cavity rapidly fills with granulations which soon form a fibrous mass and finally ossify, especially if the periosteum can take part in the process. It often happens, however, that these cavities are obliterated by fibrous tissue which persists indefinitely; but this lack of ossification is especially seen in chronic lesions involving the spongy tissue. In frank necrosis, and in young subjects, the plasticity of the walls of the sequestrum-cavity generally bring about bony consolidation. In osteo-myelitis which passes on to the chronic state, and gives rise to the complex anatomical forms which I have described, we must not be content with removing the small movable sequestra which are discovered, but should scoop out the whole of the affected region, and remove the altered medulla, whether gelatinous or fungous, which is found there. 1 Traite de la Regeneration des Os, t. ii. chap. i. 2 Deporte, De la necrose superficielle (Thtse). Lyon, 1882.