415 PUNCTURE OF TIIE BLADDER. ill ibJ II m cotic, and was quite free from any urinary inconvenience other than wearing his tube. During the night, his sleep was not broken by calls to micturate or pass catheters, as his urine ran off by the tubing as it was excreted, while in the daytime, whilst up and about, his act of micturition practically resolved itself into something equivalent to the turning of a tap. His urine, which had been fetid and ammoniacal, became normal, the bladder being readily washed out by applying a syringe to the canula twice a day. On two or Fig. 1302. three occasions the canula having accidentally slipped out, whilst the tapes were being changed, was readily replaced by the nurse. The some- what enthusiastic manner in which the patient compared Ids former with his later condition, cannot be passed entirely unnoticed. For about six weeks my patient passed urine through the prostatic canula. His health rapidly improved, and he was able to go about as if nothing ailed him. Then it was noticed that urine in gradu- ally increasing quantities began to flow through the natural passage, so much so as to lead me to infer that, for some reason or other, the prostate was ceasing to obstruct micturition. On January 28, 1882, 1 removed the prostatic canula; the puncture healed in the course of a few days, and with this the bladder gradually proceeded to recover its natural function and power. During the daytime he now (April 4) held his urine for two or three hours, and at night got up twice and sometimes thrice to mictu- rate ; all functional symptoms of enlarged prostate had ceased to exist. On the day of his admission into the infirmary, when the puncture was made, rectal examination, practised both by my house-surgeon, Mr. Laim- beer, and by myself, left no doubt that the pros- tate was greatly enlarged. Upon this point there could be no other conclusion. Now we found that the enlargement had almost disappeared ; in fact, the finger, by the rectum, discovered but little that could be regarded as abnormal—a strong contrast to what had previously existed. Hei’e, then, we had a case in which a surgical proceeding on an enlarged prostate was followed by its rapid atrophy, a result which, as far as I know, had not been noted before. It may be urged that rectal examination afforded evidence only that one side of the enlarged gland had thus become reduced ; but it must be remembered that a return of the power and function of micturition warranted the conclusion that a corresponding change had taken place on its vesical aspect. I annex an illustration (Fig. 1302) of the instruments which I have devised for this operation, and which have been made for me by Messrs. Krohne & Sesemann, of Lon- don. The trocar is hollow, and urine escapes through it as soon as it enters the bladder. The shield on the tube (1) is movable, and can 1 represents the trocar with camila complete. A piece of India-rubber tubing is to be attached below the collar of the canula on withdrawal of the trocar, to convey the urine into a receptacle. 2. Silver canula, which is introduced into tube of 1, to form a probe end, and for retaining it. 3. A plain silver tube with which to clear tube 2, in case it should be blocked up.