493 VICES OF CONFORMATION OF THE URETHRA. succeeds, provided that time and patience be given to it. This method has for its principle to proceed with the reparation in successive stages, which may be divided in the following manner: (1) Straightening the penis; (2) Creation of a new urethral canal from the extremity of the glans to the neighborhood, of the hypospadic opening, which should be left untouched to give exit to the urine until the time of the definitive formation of the new canal; (3) Junction of the two portions of the urethral canal. First stage: Straightening the Penis.—I have already indicated the man- ner in which Bouisson advised to proceed with this straightening, and I have no objection to offer to the method of this surgeon, if it be not to the blind manner in which the section is made, and conse- 1341 quently the impossibility of knowing exactly what has been done. It has therefore ap- peared to me more simple, and at the same time more sure, to incise transversely and by an open wound the ridge which unites the glans to the hypos- padic opening, and to carry this incision as deeply as is necessary to obtain complete straightening of the penis. (Fig. 1342.) I have, further, con- vinced myself by experience that a very considerable thick- ness of the corpora cavernosa may be incised with impunity, and in one case in particular, „ ,. ... . , , one of the gravest on which 1 have had to operate, in a young man twenty years old whose penis was reduced to very small proportions by reason of an extremely pronounced curvature, I had to penetrate very deep into the substance of the corpora cavernosa, in order to restore to the penis sufficient length and straightness. This preliminary operation may in some cases be omitted, if the curvature of the penis be absent or very slightly marked, and I will cite in this connec- tion the case of an individual aged twenty-five years, affected with perineo- scrotal hypospadia with quite pronounced incurvation of the penis, who had himself fulfilled this indication by releasing his penis from its inferior attach- ments by successive sections. One ought, before passing to the second stage, that is to say, before think- ing of making a new urethra, to wait a sufficient time to be assured that no secondary contraction will occur which may restore the incurvation of the penis. By fixing this time at six or eight months, such an accident will I think surely be avoided. Second stage: Formation of a new Canal from the Meatus to the Neighbor- hood of the Hypospadic Opening.—The reconstruction of the meatus should first fix the attention of the surgeon. In none of the previous methods of procedure was much attention paid to this special point. In the patient of Theophile Anger, the only one who recovered from his infirmity, the opening of the new urethra was situated below the glans, and formed a simple cutaneous prominence. Such an imperfection has, in my opinion, much more importance than would at first thought be believed. Apart from the want of external symmetry, the absence of a meatus hollowed out of the Fig. 1342. and straightening of the penis.