404 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE BLADDER AND PROSTATE. 1 Op. cit., p. 178. 2 On Ovarian and Uterine Tumors, p. 143. 1882. the bladder. When this is accomplished, there is very little difficulty experi- enced, or skill required, in sliding the fine catheter that accompanies the in- strument through the obstruction, and thus withdrawing the urine. Fig. 1301. To patients who are very intolerant of catheterization, or in whom there is spasmodic resistance to passing an instrument, an anaesthetic may be administered with advantage. As a rule, for these cases, I prefer chloro- form to ether, as with the latter the stage of excitement is usually more prolonged—a point worthy of consideration where we have a distended blad- der. I mention this, because I prefer, for surgical operations generally, ether to chloroform. In using anaesthetics for this purpose, Sir Henry Thomp- -son’s' observation should be borne in mind: “ Let it be remembered that chloroform is administered, not for the purpose of permitting the instrument to be used with greater force than before, but in order to produce perfect anaesthesia and relaxation of the muscles.” Retention of urine is far less common in females than in males; this is of course due to the comparative immunity of their short urethras from obstructive disease taking origin in the canal itself, or in the glands associated with it. The introduction of the female catheter, under ordinary circumstances, is an operation of no difficulty. In cases of distention of the bladder caused by uterine and ovarian tumors which are fixed in the pelvis, Sir Spencer Wells2 observes that a small and long elastic catheter is sometimes required. Such an instrument is especially necessary in cases of tumor of the uterus, in which it is not rare to find the bladder drawn up nearly to the level of the umbilicus. It will hardly be necessary to lay stress on the extreme gentleness with which all mechanical proceedings for the withdrawal of retained urine from the bladder, should be conducted. The employment of force is, under all cir- cumstances, unjustifiable. Though retention of urine is an evil, unskilful catheterization may be a greater. If the catheter cannot be introduced with tolerable readiness, and without hemorrhage of any moment, an operator would be likely to do less harm by selecting one of the simpler methods of tap- ping the bladder presently to be described, than by persevering in his efforts to force an instrument in a direction supposed to correspond with that of the natural passage. When the bladder is once relieved, as for instance by the fine needle of the aspirator, the most important obstacle to catheteri- zation—viz. tension—is at once removed, and will, most probably, not be allowed to recur. In conclusion, it may be mentioned incidentally that patients have some- times found themselves suffering from most urgent retention, under circum- stances in which they have been unable either to introduce a catheter or to obtain professional assistance. I know cases in which the wire from a soda- water bottle and an iron skewer, each has done duty in “forcing” a stricture. A bougie made from an old clock-pendulum was recently shown me by a sailor, as an instrument modelled by himself, with which he had suc-