HYDROCELE. 559 Hydrocele Of the testicle, Of the spermatic cord, Vaginal, Encysted, Common, Inguinal, Congenital. J Of the epididymis, ( Of the tunica albuginea. Diffused, Encysted, Congenital. Vaginal hydrocele combined with encysted hydro- cele of the testicle, Vaginal hydrocele combined with encysted hydro- cele of the cord, Complications of Vaginal hydrocele combined with diffused hydro- cele of the cord. [ Vaginal hydrocele combined with inguinal hernia, Oscheo-liydrocele, ^ Encysted hydrocele of the cord combined with in- [ guinal hernia. Of the hernial ( True, sac, { Spurious. In recent cases the tunica vaginalis is transparent and smooth, but the -connective tissue becomes thickened. In cases of long standing there are evidences of inflammation; membranes of newly formed tissue which are sometimes vascular, sometimes non-vas- cular, are deposited in layers on the surface of the parietal and testicular layer of the serous membrane. These deposits become dense and tough like similar deposits seen in cases of pleurisy and pericarditis, and are formed of parallel layers of connective tissue separated from one another by flat cells; between these layers and the connec- tive tissue, effusion of blood may take place. Small, dense, pearl-like bodies occasionally become free in the serous cavity, in the same manner that false cartilages do in joints. The tunica vaginalis may be so thickened, and so indurated by the deposit of calcareous salts, that it cannot collapse on the testicle, which may become atrophied in consequence. In cases of recent inflam- mation, the effused lymph is soft and glues together the parietal and visceral layers of the tunica vaginalis. When the tunica vaginalis is inflamed the epididymis is also liable to be attacked, as the inflammation is propagated by the cellular tissue connecting these parts, whereas the testicle is protected by the tough tunica albuginea. Inflammation of the tunica vaginalis is very rarely followed by suppuration. Hydroceles are often secondary to syphilitic disease of the testicles, to elephantiasis scroti, and to malignant disease. Nature of the Fluid.—The fluid drawn off from a hydrocele is generally yel- lowish, has a specific gravity of 1024, and becomes solid on the application of heat and nitric acid. At times it has a brownish tinge from the admixture of blood, but it may be of a dark greenish-brown color, and so loaded in old cases with cholesterin, the crystals of which sparkle in the fluid, that this condition, combined with a somewhat thickened sac, prevents the transmission Relation of parts in vaginal hydrocele: the dotted lines show the oblique direction to be taken by the trocar in tapping, in order to avoid the testicle.