40 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE (ESOPHAGUS. Gastrostomy and Enterostomy. Gastrostomy, the formation of a gastric fistula by surgical operation, for the purpose of introducing nutriment when the oesophagus is occluded, was first performed Nov. 13, 1849, by Sedillot, who named the procedure gastro- stomie; but the operation had already been suggested by Egeherg, in 1837.1 It is indicated in stricture of the oesophagus, impassable or rapidly becoming impassable, whether cicatricial or carcinomatous in origin. In carcinomatous cases it prolongs life and circumvents death by starvation. In cicatricial cases it may save life. I have no familiarity with the operation on the living subject. In a tabulation of 108 gastrostomies for carcinomatous oesophagus,2 58 of the patients are recorded as having died within one week, 37 as having perished between the beginning of the seventh and the end of the eleventh week, 3 as having lived for three months, 4 for four months, 3 for six months, 1 for seven months, and 2 for eight months. In a later analysis of 167 cases,3 117 patients are said to have died within one month, and 46 to have lived for periods varying from live weeks to thirteen months; in the most successful case, a patient of Mr. Walter Whitehead, of Manchester, was in good health at the end of the thirteenth month.4 The average duration of life in these 167 cases is given at thirty-three days. Of 37 gastrostomies for cicat ricial stricture analyzed by Gross,5 20 terminated fatally within one month, 1 in two months, 1 in five months, 2 in seven months, 1 in ten months, 1 in eighteen and a half months, 1 in thirty-six months, 1 in forty-two months, and 1 in forty- eight months, while several patients were still living at the end of four and a half, five, eight, ten, forty, fifty-three, and fifty-six® months respectively, the average duration of life having been two hundred and ninety five days. The danger of death from peritonitis is no longer as great as formerly. The first 28 gastrostomies for carcinoma terminated fatally at an early date from peritonitis or causes incident to the operation. In the twenty-ninth case7 the patient escaped peritonitis, lived forty days, and died of bronchitis. Since this period success has been proportionately greater and greater, the operation now being undertaken at a much earlier period than formerly, and before the system has become so much reduced as to preclude recovery. Gastrostomy may be performed in one operation or in two.8 In the latter and preferable mode of procedure, the initial operation consists in exposing the stomach, as close as possible to its cardiac extremity, and attaching it by sutures to the abdominal walls; and the second consists in incising the viscus a few days subsequently, after the adhesions have become firm or complete. Anaesthesia and antisepsis are recommended for the initial ope- ration. To expose the stomach, some surgeons prefer a longitudinal incision of three or four inches in length, along the line of the linea semilunaris, hut general preference has been expressed for an equivalent incision, parallel to the left false ribs, and placed one centimetre (nearly half an inch) to their inner side; the lower end of the incision reaches to the level of the bases of the cartilages of the ninth ribs, the highest point, according to Labbe,9 at which 1 Albert, Lehrbuch der Chirurgie und Operationslehre, Bd. iii. S. 366. Wien nnd Leipzig, 1882. 2 Blum, Arch. Gen. de Med., Nov. 1883. 3 Gross, loc. cit., p. 53. 4 Private communication; and Gross (loc. cit.). 5 Loc. cit., p. 63. 6 This is the case of Dr. Herff, of San Antonio, now of nearly six years’ duration. 7 Sydney Jones, Lancet, May 15, 1875. 6 Howse. 9 Albert, op. cit., Bd. iii. S. 369.