INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTION. 50 nal strangulation, viz., (1) strangulation by isolated peritoneal adhesions (or, to use Mr. Gay’s term, “ by tbe solitary band”) ;* (2) strangulation by cords formed from the omentum ; (3) strangulation by Meckel’s diverticulum (a diverticulum passing from the lower part of the ileum to the umbilicus, being a remnant of the vitelline duct); (4) strangulation by normal struc- tures with abnormal attachments, such as an adherent appendix vermiformis or Fallopian tube, including strangulation by a fixed portion of the mesen- tery, by the pedicle of an ovarian cyst, etc.; and (5) strangulation through slits and holes in the mesentery or omentum, in certain peritoneal ligaments, or in membranous adhesions. In connection with these varieties may be mentioned certain forms of internal strangulated hernia—obturator, dia- ph ragmatic, etc. Strangulation by bands, cords, diverticula, etc., is usually effected by the gut passing under the band, if this is short, or being snared in a noose or knot if it is long and attached only by its extremities. In rare cases, how- ever, strangulation has been caused by a segment of bowel being caught, and as it were suspended, over a tense band; and acute obstruction, without stran- gulation, may be caused in still other ways by bauds and adhesions. Thus, as pointed out by Mr. Treves, there may be occlusion from “acute kinking” of the gut, due to traction on an isolated band, or on an adherent diver- ticulum ; adhesions, too, may cause obstruction by compressing the intestines, by gluing several coils together, or by bolding the bowel in a bent position ; by the simple, long-continued traction on an adherent band or diverticulum, changes in the wall of the gut, ending perhaps in ulceration and cicatricial constriction, may be induced; and, finally, chronic peritonitis may lead to marked shrinking of the mesentery, and to secondary stenosis of the bowel. It is obvious that the latter condition would be apt to cause chronic rather than acute obstruction. Internal strangulation is more common in the male than in the female sex in about the proportion of three to two. It is most common in early adult life, and is very rare in children. The usual seat of strangulation is the small intestine, which is affected, according to Brinton’s statistics, in 95 per cent., and according to those of Bulteau in 88 per cent., of all cases. Enteritis and Peritonitis.—These affections, the symptoms of which often very closely simulate those of acute intestinal obstruction from me- chanical causes, are more appropriately considered in works on the practice of medicine than in those devoted to surgery, and I shall therefore not refer to them further than to urge tbe importance of the surgeon bearing in mind the possibility of their being present, and endeavoring to eliminate the doubt by careful examination and, if necessary, tentative treatment, before resorting to operative measures. By. enteritis I mean of course tbe Enteritis phlegmo- nodea of Cullen, which Sir Thomas Watson has so well described, and which he characterizes as being “ in most cases peritonitis, and something more.” It may be caused by exposure to cold and wet, especially of the lower extremi- ties, and particularly when the exposure follows a meal, when the digestive organs are in a state of functional activity. It may also, I believe, be caused by the use of indigestible food, and by the abuse of purgative medicines. It occurs in both sexes and at all ages, and may involve any portion of the bowel. This is, from one point of view, the most important of all forms of acute intestinal obstruction, since it is that from which recovery, under judicious treatment, may be most confidently expected. 1 According to Dr. Fitz’s investigations (Amer. Journ. Med. Sciences, July, 1884), these hands more often originate from obliterated or patent omplialo mesenteric vessels than from adhesions following peritonitis.