310 LITIIOTRITY. arouse inflammatory action. Before the practice of rapid lithotrity became general, when several sittings were necessary for even moderate-sized and friable calculi, this was a question of moment. But it is so no longer, and the urethra that can tolerate the grooved statf for cutting purposes, can alike hear the use of the lithotrite. The irritation sometimes set up in the urinary apparatus by the too-prolonged and too-frequent introduction of the lithotrite, is not usually irritation of the bladder, as is commonly supposed, but of the urethra; and the severe constitutional disturbance which often follows, results from the passage to and from the bladder, and not from any trouble lit up within that viscus. The bladder is not easily irritated ; but the urethra is relatively sensitive and prone to disturbance. A large calculus, when broken up, as long as it remains within the bladder gives but little discomfort; but the passage of the smallest fragment causes both pain and disturbance of the circulation. It was the recognition of this greater sensibility of the urethra, probably, which led to the use of the external canula, or “ chemise,” as it was termed, which was placed within the urethra to protect its walls, but which is now no longer to be met with save as a curiosity in the surgical cabinet, though the sensibility of the organ which it was intended to protect has continued the same. A or is stricturewhatever may be its character or situation, even if it have become cicatricial, to be regarded as an obstacle to the performance of litho- trity. If the crushing operation would be selected without stricture, it should be the more readily selected where stricture exists. Some of the most suc- cessful operations of which I have knowledge have been performed after the patients had undergone treatment for stricture. A or are those heteroplastic growths which grow in and around, and press upon, the urinary canal, to otter insuperable obstacles to lithotrity, unless they are themselves not amenable to treatment. The treatment necessary for the cure of stricture, whether single or multiple, and whether situated in the membranous, bulbous, or penile portion of the urethra, as a preliminary to lithotrity, familiarizes the ofttimes capricious, coy, and uncertain canal to the presence of instruments, and renders the sub- sequent use of the lithotrite comparatively free from irritation. When dila- tation alone is practised, the bougie brings the calibre of the urethra up to and beyond that required for the lithotrite, and when incision with dilatation, or internal or external urethotom}7, is practised, the same result is obtained. But other circumstances have a controlling influence on the selection or rejection of lithotrity : to wit, the size and hardness of the stone. The size of the calculus is less regarded than formerly, and, provided that the stone is not too hard, size alone should not prevent the performance of lithotrity. The comparatively early detection of stone, while it is yet small, has rendered the operation of lithotomy less needful. Large stones are met with less fre- quently than formerly. ISTow and then our hospitals furnish cases of stone of large size in individuals who have lived far from the aid of surgery, till forced by long suffering to find their way to the larger cities; but since the practice of lithotrity has become more general, and the detection of stone more early, calculi have been steadily decreasing in size, and promise to do so still more in the future. The hardness of a stone may generally be recognized by the resistance it offers to the lithotrite, and by the manner in which the jaws of the latter grasp it. But the seemingly unmistakable evidence of hardness or of soft- 1 By the term stricture I mean that organic stricture, that change in the wall of the urethra, either in the mucous or submucous tissue, by which is offered a greater or less impediment to the easy flow of urine. “Spasm” and “inflammation,” as Mr. Reginald Harrison well observes, “ may he superadded, hut they do not constitute stricture in the acceptation of the term which is now generally adopted.”