INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS OF THE BONES. 872 to osteitis, may be found along the whole length of the cliaphysis, the central marrow having been replaced after the first inflammation by a spongy tissue of irregular structure and unequal density. These secondary effects of osteitis may be observed a long time afterwards. In 1883 I trephined an old man of seventy-five years, who had had an osteo- myelitis of the lower half of the tibia at the age of thirteen years, in 1821, that is to say, sixty-two years before. I made two openings with a trephine, and removed the bridge of bone between them with a gouge; and I found in the centre of the bone a collection of pus, in which was a small, longitudinal sequestrum, twenty-six millimetres in length, of compact tissue, which had required more than half a century to become separated and to provoke an appreciable inflammation around itself. It is easy enough to diagnosticate abscess of bone when it is a remote consequence of osteitis. The persistence of pain, or, at least, its return at the same point, a projection in the bone at this level, persistent heat, and finally a little infiltration and redness of the skin, indicate the formation of pus and its progress toward the exterior. Some of these abscesses take a very long time to appear externally, on account of the thickness of the com- pact layer which separates them from the periosteum. When, however, there is pus inside the bone, this compact la}^er becomes medullized by de- grees, is vascularized, and finally opens by a spontaneous trephining. But this spontaneous trephining requires months and perhaps years to be completed, if the surgeon does not intervene. The inflammation may cease and the pus be absorbed. This termination is possible in young subjects; and then a circumscribed cyst is formed. But if a new attack of osteitis bccurs, the pains reappear, and persist until the opening of the collection, although they may stop again if no sequestrum nor pus has been already formed. The tolerance of bone-tissue for the products of inflammation, and even of necrosis, is often indefinite in young subjects. There are found in bones formerly diseased, cystic cavities or limited spaces, more or less circum- scribed, which are the relics of old osteitis. An aseptic sequestrum may per- sist indefinitely or disappear by erosion in the midst of medullary granula- tions. What proves this tolerance of bone-tissue for certain inflammatory products, is the slowness of evolution of some tuberculous and syphilitic col- lections, which, developed often without pain, persist indefinitely, and are only found accidentally at an autopsy. These tuberculous collections are liable to inflame suddenly, and then to give rise to symptoms of acute osteitis; but they do not generally have the acuteness of the osteo-myelitis of which I have spoken above. An important point to note in the evolution ot these bone-abscesses is that often the pains, which up to a certain time have been very acute, suddenly cease. This is when the pus, by spontaneous trephining from within outwards, has reached the periosteum or is separated from it by only a thin, flexible, and depressible layer. As soon as the sub-periosteal abscess appears, the in- terosseous pain ceases; and still more if the pus, traversing an erosion or a vascular opening in the periosteum, can spread itself freely in the parosteal layers. Bone-Inflammations from the Introduction of Poisonous Inorganic Sub- stances ; Phosphorus-Osteitis.—Osteitis produced by phosphorus was a vei’y common affection thirty or forty years ago. Nowadays it is hardly ever seen, at least in France, and in all the countries in which the manufac- turers of matches have adopted the use of amorphous phosphorus. At Lyons I saw some cases in the beginning of my practice, but for ten years I have not seen any. This affection was, a few years ago, the subject ot numerous works