776 THE CAESAREAN SECTION AND ITS SUBSTITUTES. mind, that the operation devised by Dr. Thomas has three very important objects in view, and that in these consist whatever advantages it may have over other forms of abdominal delivery, viz : 1st. The avoidance of opening the peritoneal cavity ; 2d. The avoidance of incising the uterus, either in its body or cervix ; anti 3d. The escape of the risk of hemorrhage, by lacerating the vagina instead of incising it, except for the initial opening, which is to be made in a carefully selected place, as regards its vascularity. (1) Process of Prof. Johann C. J. Jorg, of Jjeipsic (180(3).—The prevailing idea in the mind of this German obstetrician, was to avoid the risk of incis- ing the body of the uterus. To accomplish this, he proposed to open the abdomen through the linea alba, and then to open the vagina by an incision which could be extended into the cervix, if sufficient space for delivery were not otherwise obtained, lie had formed his idea from the escape of a foetus into the abdominal cavity through a cervico-vaginal laceration, but did not appear to be aware of the fact that an incision of the cervix and upper part of the vagina would provoke a frightful hemorrhage. The operation was never performed. (2) Process of Prof. Ritgen, of Giessen (1820).—Receiving the idea of open- ing the vagina from Jorg, and that of avoiding the peritoneal cavity from Abernethy’s and Cooper’s extra-peritoneal methods of ligating the external iliac artery, this German professor proposed to make an incision of the abdo- men on the right side, in a curved line from the region of the crista ilii to near the symphysis pubis, at the distance of an inch from the hones, through the skin and muscles down to the peritoneum. This membrane was then to be lifted from the iliac fossa ; the vagina to be brought into view, and an open- ing made into it, through which the foetus was to be delivered. Like Jorg, he also proposed to incise the cervix in case more room for delivery should be required. In attempting to carry out his plan he operated upon a multi- para affected with malacosteon, and proceeded until he came to opening the vagina, which he accomplished with safety ; but when, after having made an incision of one and a half inches, he attempted to enlarge it towards the cer- vix with the knife, there suddenly appeared such a discharge of blood that he felt compelled to desist, and to complete the delivery by the Caesarean section. The child was saved, but the woman died in fifty-eight hours of hemorrhage from the uterine wound, the uterus having relaxed to a length of eleven inches. Failing in this attempt to carry out, a plan of delivery which very nearly resembled that of the present day, Prof. Ritgen formed the opinion that it would be necessary to split the cervix its whole length, in order to obtain sufficient space for the passage of the child. Ritgen’s ope- ration, according to his original conception of it, was a true laparo-elytrotomy, designed to avoid exposing the peritoneal cavity and wounding the uterus; but the third important step introduced by Prof. Thomas, for the avoidance of hemorrhage from the vaginal vessels, does not appear to have been thought of. (3) Process of L. A. Baudelocque, nephew of J. L. Baudelocque {1823).—The plan proposed was to incise the abdomen down to the peritoneum in the linea semilunaris, from a point opposite the umbilicus to another two inches above the pubes; then to separate the peritoneum from the iliac fossa by introduc- ing a finger into the lower part of the wound ; and next, while one assistant held up the peritoneum and another fixed the uterus, to feel for the arteries surrounding the vagina and to ligate them at both ends. The operator then, with his hand in the vagina, was to force out its anterior wall through the wound, and incise it to the extent of four and a half inches, avoiding the part near the cervix. The delivery was now to be left to nature, or it was to be accomplished by the forceps.