1165 HISTORY OF SURGERY. was not pressure on the carotid arteries, as had been previously believed, but pressure on this nerve that took away the voice. Galen, whose writings were regarded as the highest authority on all medical subjects for not less than thirteen hundred years, was born at Perga- nius, in Asia Minor, about the year 180 of our era. Many of his works are extinct, and yet, what remain extant, are five and one-half times more volumi- nous than the combined scriptures of the Old and Hew Testament. They are largely an extended commentary on the works of Hippocrates, with notes from various medical and surgical authors who had written during the time which intervened from the fifth century before Christ to the middle of the second century after His advent. Galen cannot be said to have made many important improvements in anything which related to surgery. In four cases he detected dislocation of the head of the femur backwards, a variety of luxation not mentioned by Hippocrates ; and he records two cases of spontaneous dislocation of the same bone. He is the first to speak of the use of the trepan for the perforation of the sternum in case of empyema, or of mediastinal abscess. Galen advises the ligation of arteries in cases where a profuse hemorrhage cannot be arrested by astringents, cold, or other means. He gives also a good description of the aneurismal tumor. He was skilled in the art of bandaging, and continued to employ the cumbrous and compli- cated machinery of a former age, in the treatment of fractures and dislocations of the bones. The reader must not infer any want of respect for Galen, from the above remarks ; he is here only spoken of in reference to surgery. His fidelity in the description of maladies was ecpial to that of Hippocrates, and the exquisite discrimination of his judgment of diseases was not excelled by that of any medical writer of antiquity. The next medical author of any importance after Galen, was Oribasius, also a native of Pergamus, a pupil of Zeno, who flourished about the middle of the fourth century. lie was a man of sterling qualities and a skilful prac- titioner. He was a careful compiler, a judicious editor, and a sensible com- mentator. He was the physician and friend of Julian, surnamed the Apostate, and followed him into Gaul; and when Julian became emperor, he appointed Oribasius quiestor at Constantinople.1 It was at the request of Julian that he wrote his great “ Collectorum medicinalium libri” consisting of seventy books, of which only seventeen have survived the ravages of time. He says in his preface, “I have finished long since, divine Ctesar, the abridgment of the books of Galen, which you charged me to make, during our residence in nearer Gaul. You deigned to express your satisfaction on the subject, and you enjoined upon me, at the same time, another work—that of reducing to a single volume all that the most illustrious physicians have taught, of utility, on the healing art. I have, therefore, resolved to gratify you accord- ing to my abilities. I shall be careful to omit nothing of what Galen had said, because he is, of all those Avho have written on these matters, the one who has treated his subject with most clearness, reason, and method. He shows himself, besides, the faithful interpreter of the principles and senti- ments of Hippocrates.” The abridgment which Oribasius subsequently prepared of his great work, for the benefit of his son, has reached us complete. It is in nineteen books. In the ninth book of the synopsis, published by Stephens,2 with interpreta- tions by Vidus Vidius, may be seen a large number of engravings, illustrating the complex and cumbrous machinery employed by the ancients in the re- 1 While holding this office, he was sent on an important occasion to consult the oracle at Delphi, and received the celebrated response, “ That henceforth forever all the oracles should he mute.” (Sprengel, Hist. Med., t. ii. p. 188.) 2 Medicse Artis Principes, tom. ii. Paris, 1567.