1057 DEFORMITIES OF THE UPPER EXTREMITIES. disease, either personal or hereditary ; this gentleman had lived an active life for many years, and it was after his settling down to a more quiet and seden- tary mode of life that the contraction of the hand became developed; probably therefore it was here due to gout, but was the sole indication of the disease, which may yet display itself in a more pronounced manner. Local irritation has, nevertheless, some influence in producing the palmar contraction, and in regard to this point two cases which have come under my observation are worthy of notice. In the first case, a gentleman who up to the age of about fifty years had been in the habit of riding and driving a great deal, was affected with slight thickening of the fascia, with dimpling of the skin on the palms of both hands, without however suffering from any symptoms of gout. Shortly after this slight con- traction appeared, this gentleman so changed his practice as almost entirely to give up either riding or driving; the Dupuytren’s disease became arrested, but soon afterwards other well-marked symptoms of gout were developed. In the second case, a gentleman whose occupation was purely of a professional character, and who was addicted to no further manual labor than is usually associated with the ordinary course of life, had, before retiring into private life, suffered from gout; living afterwards in the country, and devoting himself with some enthusiasm to gardening and such like out-door pursuits, he acquired well-marked contraction of the palmar fascia in both hands, the other gouty symptoms at the same time almost entirely disap- pearing. These cases, and others of a similar nature which might be quoted, prove distinctly that the influence of a local excitant must not be disregarded in investigating the origin of this disease; the fact that in the first case a discontinuance of using the reins1 was followed by a cessation of the advance of the contraction of the fascia, and that in the second case the use of garden- ing implements was necessary to start the disease, shows that in the gouty subject local irritation will very probably act as the exciting cause of this affection; whilst the fact that it is nearly always accompanied by gout, indicates that the latter is its chief predisposing cause. The time of life at which this contraction commences is usually between the ages of thirty and forty years, but it may begin at an earlier or later period. It is rarely met witli in women ; I have seen three such cases only, one of which has furnished Fig. 1499, the subject being a woman who was markedly affected with gout, and whose occupation was that of a char- woman ; another of these three cases was in a woman in a humble station of life, who was in the habit of using her hands in somewhat rough work; whilst the third was in a lady, in whom, however, the disease did not assume a very aggravated form. A condition of finger-contraction which is very common to the female sex, and which is often mistaken for Dupuytren’s con- traction, may here be referred to. The deformity is nearly always congenital, or of a very early origin ; it is usually met with in the little finger only, and affects the first phalangeal joint; there is no contraction of the fascia of the palm ever present, and the condition seems to be somewhat closely allied to hammer-toe. Treatment.—Except in the very earliest stage of contraction, the relief of this affection can only be obtained by subcutaneous section of the fascia. So effectual is this method of treatment, and so superior is it to all other methods practised, that I feel justified in proceeding at once to a descrip- tion of the mode of operation, and of the necessary mechanical treatment to be afterwards adopted. The procedures here given are those established 1 It may be stated that the gentleman here referred to was in the habit of keeping horses that required to be really driven, and not merely guided. VOL. VI.—67