1160 APPENDIX. First of all, the mode of extracting teeth. He would have the gum separated from the tooth, which is to he extracted with the forceps, care being taken, if the tooth is firmly fixed, not to dislocate the jaw.1 Celsus gives the follow- ing directions, which strike me as very ingenious and practicable. “But if the tooth be carious, the cavity must be filled up, either with lint or lead well adapted to it, lest it break under the forceps.” He also admonishes the operator not to seize the alveolar process with the forceps, in fear of exten- sive fractures of this part. Next follows the mode of fastening teeth which have been loosened by blows and falls. This is to he done by fastening the loose teeth to the firm ones by means of gold. He does not state whether a wire or a plate of gold. He tells us to extract the fangs of teeth with a special forceps, made for the purpose. ■(Rizagra, a root extractor.) The tonsils are to be raised with a hook and cut off with a scalpel; and the uvula to he truncated, when elongated, after seizing it with a small volsella. In cutting the frsenum linguae, he cautions against wounding the sublingual vessels. Chapter XIII. deals with the operation for the extirpation of bronchocele, as, he says, the Greeks term this tumor. The differential diagnosis of umbili- cal tumors, and of omental and intestinal hernia, is given in Chapter XIV., and also the treatment by clamps and by the actual cautery. The next chapter treats of paracentesis abdominis. lie speaks of the different points at which a puncture can be made, and directs that a canula of lead, or of brass, he inserted into the puncture, that “ the major part” of the fluid be discharged, and that the canula be then plugged and re-opened each day until no fluid re- mains. Chapter XVI. is on “ wounds of the intestines and their treatment.” Celsus tells us that wounds of the small intestines are fatal, but that “ the larger intestine may be sewed; not with certain confidence of a cure, but because a doubtful hope is preferable to certain despair, for sometimes reunion is effected.” In the next chapters he treats of hernia, hydrocele, and varicocele. He used bandages with pads for hernia, and cut down upon and enlarged the opening in case of strangulation. In hydrocele he laid open the scrotum freely with the scalpel. In varicocele he opened the sheath of the cord, brought out the varicose vessels and applied clamps to obliterate them. If “ the testicle hangs down in a dangling unseemly manner withal,” he says the only remedy is to remove it. “ The groin must be incised, and the middle coat drawn out and cut away; the same must be done with the lowest tunic, and the nerve {cord) by which the testicle depends cut off'; after this the veins and arteries must he secured by a ligature at the groin, and then be cut off below it.”2 In Chapter XXV. he gives directions for making a prepuce, “ for persons who are desirous, for the sake of appearance, to have it (the glans) covered,” both in cases of congenital absence of the prepuce and after circumcision. In the former he brings and fastens the integument in front of the glans, and then makes an incision around the penis near the pubis, “so that a denuded circle appears near the pubis; over this lint must he applied, that the flesh may grow and fill it up.” This is an aesthetical refinement which was, perhaps, peculiar to the Augustan age; it has not, as yet, been revived in the present day. Phimosis was treated by removing a V-shaped piece of the prepuce at its under side. We now come to one of the most interesting chapters in all the works of Celsus.3 It contains the earliest account which we possess of the mode of operating for stone in the bladder. It begins with a brief account of cathe- terization saying:— 1 This accident I have known to occur, in the hands of a professional dentist. 2 Medicin. lib. vii. cap. xxii. 3 Ibid., lib. vii. cap. xxvi.