880 INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS OF THE BONES. in one or the other of these parts, the joint remains unattacked for a longer or shorter time. When once the articulation is invaded by pus, epiphysitis can scarcely be cured except by resection. Juxta-epiphyseal inflammations themselves are subject to the same con- siderations. Certain juxta-epiphyseal extremities are either altogether intra- synovial, as the neck of the femur, or partly so, as the upper end of the fore- arm ; hence the necessity for resection of the joint when suppuration invades them. As suppuration of the joints singularly aggravates the prognosis of ostei- tis, it is necessary to make every effort to prevent it. The best means of doing this is to interfere early, and to try to arrest the osteitis by making free incisions in the periosteum and by trephining into the medulla. If there are infecting forms which progress with a rapidity which overturns all our calculations, the majority of osteo-myelitic inflammations do not immediately invade the whole of the bone, and there is time for intervention. I recom- mend all the more urgently early interference, because nowadays, with anti- septic dressings, an exploratory incision, made methodically down to the periosteum, is applicable to the majority of cases of osteitis. When once the diagnosis of osteitis is established, it is not possible to interfere too soon in the acute forms. To wait for suppuration, as there is too much tendency to do in accordance with the old ideas, is to expose the patient to all the infective complications of medullary suppuration, and to invasion of the neighboring joints. We should not wait for suppuration, we should anticipate it. We should, I repeat, decide all the more promptly to intervene since pyaemia is no longer as it was formerly, before the era of antiseptic dressings, the result of laying hare the medullary tissue. We should especially decide to act cpiickly in cases of old, recurrent osteitis, when local heat, violent pain, and fever, indi- cate a return of the osseous inflammation. Trephining at the painful point will arrest both the patient’s pain and the accompanying symptoms. It is not possible to attach too much importance to these remains of acute osteitis, which are always ready to become the point of departure of a new outbreak, and which are seen especially in subjects whose osteitis has been cured, or has seemed to be cured, the first time, by spontaneous trephining or by the discharge of a few small sequestra. There are cases of this sort which are never definitively cured until one decides to scoop out large channels along the whole length of the bone, from one extremity of the diaphysis to the other. If the openings are made too economically, centres of osteo- myelitis are left, with or without vascular sequestra, which will show them- selves at a later period under the influence of fatigue or cold, and which will necessitate a new intervention. Trephining, or, in other terms, scooping out large openings which penetrate into the bone, is most frequently done without the assistance of the ordinary trephine, in osteitis of the spongy tissue. The cutting gouge, that is to say, a gouge cutting on its lateral borders, suffices for excavating the necessary channels in inflamed spongy bones. Further choice of the necessary instrument may be guided by the shape, the thickness, and the hardness of the bone. The small trephines which Tangier long ago employed for blood-letting from the bones, are often very useful in central osteitis as exploratory instruments, to ascertain the contents of deep collections.