URINARY CALCULUS. 236 complete”—in other words, to help the bladder out when it should prove inadequate to the task of expelling the urine and the debris. The English rubber suction-bottle, known as Clover’s apparatus (Eigs. 1225, 1226), having a glass receiver, and a metallic catheter with large eye, Fig. 1226. Clover’s improved evaeuator. or open at the end, is one of the best models of the old type of instrument. With it Thompson did good work before better washers were provided. The same tube, with a metallic pump above the receiver, was known in France as INelaton’s evacuating apparatus (Fig. 1227). Fig. 1227. Bigelow’s first evaeuator had the demerit of admitting air into the tube, which greatly interfered with the proper function of the instrument. Many modifications and devices have since appeared. I shall give illustrations showing the changes, but shall only describe the instrument as perfected. It is entirely possible that before these words appear in print, new and im- portant modifications may be made, though it is hard to imagine a washer that could work more perfectly than Bigelow’s latest pattern. I have used all the varieties except Guyon’s, and, thus far, prefer Bigelow’s last model. Figs. 1228, 1229, 1230, and 1231, represent the Bigelow instruments, Fig. 1232 being the latest and best, the one he now advocates exclusively. Bigelow’s last evaeuator (Fig. 1232) is an elastic rubber bulb, with a glass receiver and two stopcocks of metal. Within the bulb is the tube-strainer— a metallic tube, open at the end, and perforated with small holes crowded closely together over its entire surface. The bulb is worked by alternate compression and relaxation of the hand which grasps it. The fluid in the glass receiver is out of the way of the currents started by compressing the bull). This is filled from above, and any air in it accumulates there out of reach of the aperture of the tube. The air may be easily discharged through the upper stopcock, and its place may be supplied by directly pouring water in or sucking it in through the coiled tube. The fragments of stone are drawn by suction through the evacuating catheter, the lower stopcock, and the open end of the tube. There are no valves, there is no stand, there is no rubber connecting-tube between the lower stopcock and the evacuating