HISTORY OF SURGERY. 1161 For this purpose, then, brazen catheters are made ; and that they may serve in all cases, both large and small, the surgeon should keep by him three for males and two for females. The largest male catheter should be fifteen fingers’ breadth in length, the next twelve, and the smallest nine; the largest female catheter should be nine fingers’ breadth in length, and the smallest six. Now these ought to be slightly curved, but the male catheters more particularly so, and very smooth, and neither too stout nor too slender. The directions which Celsas gives for the introduction o+“ the catheter are admirable. When a stone becomes impacted in the urethra and cannot be extracted “with an ear-probe, or with the instrument with which they extract the stone in lithotomy,” he directs that the prepuce shall be drawn forward and ligated, and an incision be made on a line with the urethra over the cal- culus, on the removal of which, the integument being permitted to retract, the opening is closed and the urine follows the natural channel, and thus a fistula is avoided. Is not this a beautiful example of ingenuity and practical skill ? The “ Celsian method” of cutting for stone in the bladder, which is also called “ cutting on the gripe,” is the most ancient and the most famous of all the modes of performing lithotomy recorded in the annals of surgery. The operation is, however, referred to, but forbidden to be done by surgeons, in the oath of Hippocrates. This was probably in consequence of the low repute into which the specialists in lithotomy had brought the operation by their boastful pretensions and their ill success. The Celsian method was followed exclusively for sixteen hundred years, when other and improved modes were introduced, as we shall see hereafter. The description which Celsus gives us of this operation, is too lengthy to be transcribed in this short history. In brief, it consists in introducing the fingers of the left hand into the rectum, by which means the calculus is brought down to the neck of the bladder; “a lunated incision must be made through the integuments immediately over and extending to the neck of the bladder, near the anus, with the horns a little inclined towards the ischia; then a second incision is to be made in a transverse form in the convex part of the wound, so as to open the neck of the bladder freely, that the urethra may be laid open, and the wound should be a little larger than the calculus.” He then speaks of a crotchet, a sort of spoon, smooth outside and rough on the concave side, by which the stone is to be removed. He speaks also of an improved instrument, for cutting, invented by Meges, being “ a straight instrument with a broad back (rounded) at its upper part, and semicircular and sharp at its lower extremity,” which was to be used in place of the ordinary knife. He gives many precautionary instructions concerning every step of the operation. In regard to very large calculi, he says But if at any time the stone is so large that it cannot be extracted, without lacerat- ing the neck of the bladder, it must be split. The author of this invention was Ammo- nius, who on that account obtained the cognomen of Lithotomus, the stone-cutter. It is done in this manner: A crotchet is introduced to the calculus, so as to hold it fast while being struck, lest it should recoil backwards; then an iron instrument, of moder- ate thickness, with a thin edge, but not sharp, is to be employed, and being applied to the stone, and struck at the other extremity, splits it, great care being taken that neither the instrument itself nor any fragment of stone shall injure any part. Then follow directions for washing out the bladder with warm water, by means of a syringe, and an entire chapter is devoted to after-treatment, and to “ gangrene after lithotomy.” Celsus regarded the operation of lithotomy as a very dangerous one, only to be done with many restrictions, and as a last resort. It was to be only performed in the spring; young persons and women should be the only subjects.