67 OPERATIVE TREATMENT OF INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTION. The circumstances which indicate or contraindicate a resort to laparotomy in cases of intestinal obstruction have already been referred to, and it remains merely to describe the operation itself, and to consider its statistical results. Laparotomy is thus performed: The patient is thoroughly etherized, placed in the recumbent posture, and brought with his buttocks to the foot of the operating table or side of the bed, so that the surgeon can stand between the lower limbs, which should be supported on chairs or stools at a convenient heigh'1 The temperature of the room should be at least. 70° F.—better 75° or even 80°—and the patient’s bladder should be evacuated with a catheter immediately before beginning the operation. If the symptoms of obstruction have followed the reduction of a hernia en masse, or a herniotomy in which the sac was not opened, this may first be explored, and the incision then, if necessary, extended into the abdominal cavity ; or if the case be one of impacted gall-stone, foreign body, or enterolite, and if the seat of obstruction can be positively determined by palpation of the abdominal parietes, the incision may be made directly over the occluding substance.1 But in most eases a longitudinal incision in the median line of the belli" will be preferable, the wound extending from an inch below the umbilicus downwards for about four inches. The advantages of a median incision are that it affords the greatest facility for exploring all parts of the abdomen, and that the wound unites more readily than one which entails division of muscular tissue.2 The skin and fascia having been cut through, the dissection is cautiously carried down to the peritoneum, in which membrane a small opening is then made, and enlarged as much as may be necessary with a probe-pointed bis- toury introduced upon the finger as a director. Search is next to be made for the seat of obstruction. In doing this it is generally directed that the distended bowel should be traced downwards, but Mr. Hulke’s suggestion seems to be a better one, that the contracted and empty bowel should be sought first, and then traced upwards. It is very important that the bowels should not be allowed to escape from the abdominal cavity, and to prevent this the sides of the wound should be supported by assistants, who should gently steady them, but not compress them, with towels or sponges. If the disten- sion be so great as to impede the surgeon’s manipulations, one or more coils may be punctured with a fine trocar and canula, introduced through the wound, or, guided by the surgeon’s hand in the wound, through the abdominal parietes. Mr. Treves advises, and I think judiciously, that the operator should first pass his hand to the position of the crecum, by noting the condition of which he can usually at once decide whether the obstruction is in the large or small intestine. If the csecum is distended, the large bowel is the seat of occlusion, and the surgeon then follows with his hand the course of the colon until he comes to the part affected; if, on the other hand, the caecum is empty, the obstruction must be in the lesser bowel, and search is then made for undis- tended coils of small intestine, first in the esecal region and about the upper edge of the pelvis, and then in the pelvic cavity where the empty loops are apt to hang when the obstruction is high up. In order to determine the direction in which the surgeon should proceed in seeking for the junction of the collapsed and distended portions of intestine, Mr. Band recalls the ana- tomical fact that the root of the mesentery is attached to the spinal column, 1 Of course, the rectum should have been carefully and repeatedly examined to make sure that it is not itself the seat of obstruction, in which case laparotomy would be contraindicated and colotomy would be the operation to be chosen. * Dr. Fitz recommends, in cases of obstruction due to other causes than intussusception, that the incision should be made in the lower right quadrant of the abdomen, since bands are most frequent in this locality.