OVARIAN AND UTERINE TUMORS. 828 pus is seen to flow along the groove a small bistoury is slid along this, and the abscess is then opened with sufficient freedom to permit of its being washed out, and of a drainage-tube being inserted through the opening. This is to be kept in by suture or such other device as the operator may prefer, and the pus-cavity is to be regularly washed out through it with some warm disin- fectant. If laparotomy be preferred, a moderately short incision should be made as in Battey’s or Tait’s operation ; the abscess, having been reached as gently as possible, is opened and washed out carefully; and, if at all possible, its walls are brought up so as to be fastened to the edges of the abdominal wound. A glass drainage-tube is now inserted into the abscess-cavity, and, if need be, another into Douglas’s cul-de-sac ; the “ toilet of the peritoneum,” to borrow the German phrase, is most carefully made, and the wound is closed around the drainage-tube (or tubes), especial care being taken not to make too much traction upon the line of union between the walls of the sac and the edges of the abdominal wound. The subsequent treatment is as usual. Operations for Ovarian and Uterine Tumors. Ovariotomy.—By ovariotomy is meant the extirpation or removal of an ovary that has undergone cystic or other degeneration. It is practised by either the vaginal or the abdominal incision; but, unless otherwise specified, the abdominal method is always understood. Vaginal ovariotomy is necessarily limited in its application, and is very rarely employed. But, in the case of small cysts low in the pelvis, or even in cysts of larger size that have become “ dislocated” into Douglas’s pouch, and are seemingly free from adhesions, it has no doubt a useful future; for, if done with ordinary skill, it is obviously less dangerous than laparotomy. It was first adopted by Prof. Thomas,1 in 1870, since which time eight or ten cases have been reported—all I think in this country. The procedure is as fol- lows: The patient is etherized, and turned in the semi-prone position. With Sims’s speculum and a depressor the upper vagina is kept on the stretch, and the posterior wall is incised behind the cervix. The tumor is then carefully examined, and tapped with either a small trocar or an aspirator; and, as the sac empties itself, it is drawn gently with tenacula or forceps through the incision into the vagina. Then comes the difficult part of the operation: the application of a ligature to the pedicle. This is chiefly due to the awkward- ness of all such manipulations at the top of the vagina. A double ligature of thin carholized silk is passed through the pedicle where it emerges into the vagina, is tied firmly on each side, and (after cutting away the cyst) is either returned to the cavity of the pelvis or is stitched into the vaginal wound ; except this suture for the fixation of the pedicle, the vaginal incision may be left open to granulate. It remains as a vent for any retained pelvic secretions, and the union by granulation is as firm as that by first intention. Should the discharge become fetid, or the temperature run high, the pelvic cavity may be syringed out with weak carbolic solutions. The results of this operation have so far been satisfactory. Abdominal Ovariotomy.—Of this operation—one of the greatest triumphs of modern surgery—a more careful and detailed description is necessary. It is of modern date, and of American origin. In spite of the efforts of European writers to claim for others the honor of priority, nothing in the history of surgery is more certain than that ovariotomy owes its first per- 1 Dis. of Women, p. 731; Goodell, Trans. Am. Gyn. Soc., p. 257. 1877.