INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. 630 1 Op. cit., vol. ii. p. 197. 3 Lectures on Surgical Pathology, vol. ii. p. 118. in the lymphatics of the testis, and that by their instrumentality it became diffused throughout the body. The tumor may grow to a large size, as a specimen removed by Mr. Henry Smith, which has furnished the accompanying illustration (Fig. 1376), de- monstrates. It is made up of opaline, cartilaginous masses of various sizes, is associated with a sarcomatous growth, and contains a few scattered cysts. As a rule, the growth starts from the rete testis (Curling), and pushes the gland-substance on one side ; but it may also invade the epididymis primarily or secondarily. On section of a tumor of this kind, after it has been in spirit, the intercar- tilaginous tissue shrinks, the cartilaginous nodules, which are opalescent, projecting from the surface. In medullary carcinoma the cartilaginous nodules may be incorporated with the growth, or encapsuled. In cystic disease the nodules may be so numerous that they form the bulk of the tumor. The nodules may he round, about the size of a pea or a small hazel-nut, and continuous with the surrounding tissues, or they may be ovoid, elon- gated, and separated by areolar tissue. The cartilage-cells undergo fatty degeneration, and calcareous deposits may take place in the intercellular substance. These tumors are by no means easy of diagnosis, and at times follow some injury to the testicle. The nodule when situated within the testicle is not readily felt. When the cartilage is associated with cancer, the internal deposits are cancerous, and not cartilaginous. The progress of 'these cases is- slow, extending over four or live years, and not painful; they cause annoyance only by their weight and bulk. The tumor is heavy, and studded over its surface by small projections, some of which are hard, like cartilage, while- others are elastic, owing to softening. The tumor is oval in shape, and devoid of testicular tenderness when pressed ; if a hydrocele be present, it causes a sense of fluctuation ; the spermatic cord is, as a rule, free from enlargement. Early castration is the only efficient treatment, and is of the first importance, as it relieves the patient of a testicle which is liable to injury, and of a tumor in which, although it may appear to be unassociated with sarcomatous tissue, yet a careful examination may discover not only sarcomatous but carcinomatous growths. Early removal is the more neces- sary if we concur in Professor Rindfleisch’s opinion,1 that the glandular and other organs of generation are generally far more prone than other parts to- exhibit a transition of simple inflammatory irritations, of ulcers, of operation- wounds, and of catarrhal overgrowths (hyperplasise), into sarcomatous, and ultimately into cancerous degenerations. Fibrous Tumors of the Testis.—When a testicle wastes after orchitis, all that remains of it is a small fibrous mass, about the size of a small marble, made up of the remains of inflammatory effusion, fibrous septa, and tubes of the testicle. A few cases are on record in which firm, w7avy, fibrous tissue has been slowly developed, and has formed a tumor within the tunica albuginea. Sir James Paget narrates such a case in his lectures.2 Forster3 has also re- corded a case in which a fibrous tumor was developed in the tunica albuginea, and invaded the substance of the testicle. Cruveilhier describes a case in his Atlas of Pathological Anatomy. Sir B. Brodie removed a testicle attacked by fibroma, and the remaining testicle was subsequently affected in the same way. These tumors are bulky and very hard, but are painless, and only cause inconvenience by their size. 3 Cornil et Ranvier, op. cit.