WOUNDS AND RUPTURES OF THE (ESOPHAGUS. 3 produced by missiles from fire-arms, by jagged foreign bodies, by incautious use of instruments for exploration and for extraction, by articles inserted for juggling or for suicidal purposes, and by severe efforts at vomiting in sub- jects with diseases of the oesophagus, or with impacted foreign bodies.1 The pleural sac, the pericardium, and even denser tissues are sometimes lace- rated. Thus an instance of fracture of the fourth rib at the vertebral articu- lation is reported, in the case of an insane patient who introduced the handle of an explosive toy into the oesophagus.2 When the walls of the gullet are diseased, perforations or lacerated wounds are sometimes made with bougies and stomach tubes.3 Whether preceded or not by contused, punctured, or lacerated wounds, ulcerations of the walls of the oesophagus may result from inflammation set up by impacted or incarcerated foreign bodies. As a con- sequence, there may be penetration into the mediastinum, the trachea or bronchi, the pleura or lung, the aorta or other great bloodvessel, the peri- cardium, or even the heart.4 Indeed, a ease has been recorded in which a fish bone bad passed through the intervertebral substance of an infant, and had wounded the spinal cord ;5 and one in which caries of the cervical spine was produced by a nail which had penetrated the oesophagus.6 Symptoms of (Esophageal Wounds.—In penetrating wounds from without, the symptoms in their totality comprise pain in the region of the oesophagus or stomach, or in the direction of the wound through the neck and thorax, with nervousness, anxiety, dyspnoea, hiccough, thirst, and, if there be an opening at all large, external escape of air, mucus, blood, food, and drink. There may, however, be no characteristic symptoms whatever, and the nature of the lesion may remain unrevealed until examination after death.7 The special symptoms of contused wounds are said to be pain in swallowing, tumefaction of the overlying tissues, sometimes to such a degree as to impede deglutition and even respiration, with probably symptoms at a later period of suppurative inflammation and abscess. The symptoms of wounds from within comprise pain, cough, and dyspnoea, and the vomiting of mucus, blood, and food. Penetrating wounds produce additional symptoms. Thus, penetration into the mediastinum will occasion symptoms of collapse, and subsequently of suppurative inflammation of the connective tissue, and perhaps of pneu- monia; penetration of the pleura will give rise to pleuritis with probable empyema, to pneumothorax, or to pneumonia; penetration of the peri- cardium, to pericarditis; of the bloodvessels, to hemorrhage; of the trachea or bronchi, to cough and expectoration of blood, mucus, saliva, and food. Diagnosis.—The history of the accident, the location and direction of the external wound, and the external escape of mucus, blood, saliva, food, or drink, will indicate the nature of the lesion in most instances of wound from without. It must be thoroughly ascertained, however, that such matters do not emerge from a wounded larynx or trachea. There may not be any escape of food passing along the oesophagus, and then the diagnosis cannot be made.8 It is believed that minute punctured wounds often elude detection in this way.9 Hsematemesis, however, following a penetrating wound of the neck or of the thorax, should bo regarded as an indication of wound of the oesophagus. Superficial external wounds, giving rise to no characteristic symptoms, are difficult of diagnosis. Longitudinal penetrating wounds may 1 Gussenbauer, case cited by Carpenter (Medical News, July 7, 1883, p. 25). A broken blade in the oesophagus of a sword-swallower. 2 Guise, case cited by Horteloup (op. cit., p. 241. 3 Shaun, Brit. Med. Jour., Nov. 3, 1873. 4 Andrew, Lancet, 1860. 6 Mackenzie, op. cit., vol. ii. p. 192. 3 Steven, Brit. Med. Jour., Dec. 10, 1870. 7 Dupuytren, case cited by Horteloup (op. cit.). 8 Dupuytren’s case already cited. Horteloup, op. cit., p. 19.