703 NOMA PUDENDI. round ligament,1 its fibres being separated. In a third condition fluid may collect outside of the canal. Cases of hydrocele of the femoral canal, much rarer than those of the canal of JSTuck, have also been observed. The tumor formed by hydrocele is usually about the size of a hen’s egg; its contents are generally serous and transparent, but may be greenish in color. ISTo impulse is communicated to the tumor by coughing, and fluctua- tion may generally be recognized; the most important diagnostic mark is translucency by transmitted light, and in this examination Osborn2 recom- mends using the ordinary stethoscope. Chiari has given examples of inflamed hydrocele, a disorder which may be confounded with inflamed epiplocele or strangulated hernia; in one of two cases observed by Wile,3 inflammation and suppuration occurred. The dis- ease is not frequently seen. Hennig,4 in a recent paper, said that he was able to find only thirty-nine cases reported. Treatment.—Hennig, in 1868, successfully treated a case of hydrocele by free incision, then passing into the sac a double iron-wire suture. Bennet, in 1870,5 succeeded by first evacuating the cyst and then injecting a satu- rated solution of iodine. Wile removed the fluid with the fine needle of an aspirator, and injected half a drachm of tincture of iodine. Gloodell suggests that if there is any communication with the abdominal cavity, pressure should be made at the internal ring, and the injected fluid should be withdrawn. Osborn succeeded by simple tapping, followed by manipulation so that the walls of the cyst would become inflamed, then applying ice and keeping the patient at rest. Hegar and Kaltenbach advise free incision and keeping the wound open by stitching the margins of the incised cyst and skin together. Vulvar and Vaginal Fissures. Occasionally, especially in women recently married, one or more fissures may be found at the vulva or just at the entrance of the vagina. Analogous to anal fissure, these may cause great distress, especially in coition, in some cases indeed resulting in vaginismus. The treatment required by a vulvar or vaginal fissure is, in the first place, physiological rest of the parts. ISText, the application of iodoform in powder twice a day; and, if this should fail in curing, dilatation of the vaginal entrance, or a longitudinal incision through the base of the fissure. ISToma Pudendi. Gangrene of the vulva may result from traumatism, as by a blow or fall, or by injury in labor; it may follow the punctures of anasarca, or may occur in typhoid or in puerperal fever. The disease, however, is more frequent in infancy than at any other period of life, and is then usually called noma, being regarded as analogous to cancrum oris. According to Parrot,6 it is in the be- ginning simply aphthous vulvitis, the gangrene not being a complication but a modality of this vulvitis. The disease first appears in the form of vesicles, or phlyctenulse, filled with a sanguinolent fluid, and having a grayish or brownish tint. These are soon replaced by black patches, while the surrounding parts are swollen and oedematous. The labia majora are affected twice as often as 1 Hegar und Kaltenbach, op. cit. 3 American Journal of Obstetrics. 6 Medical Record, 1870. 2 Lancet, March 7, 1885. 4 Centralblatt fur Gyuakologie. 6 Revue de Medecine, 1881.