ORTHOPAEDIC SURGERY. 1034 of deformity still existed, the foot being inverted and the inner border completely raised from the ground, while the heel was elevated, and both flexion and extension move- ments were very limited at the ankle-joint. The parents were naturally reluctant to try the effects of further treatment, but the child was finally admitted to the Na- tional Orthopaedic Hospital. The case was managed in the ordinary way, and, although some difficulty was experienced in overcoming the immobility of the ankle-joint, the deformity was completely reduced after twelve weeks’ treatment. The boy was kept under obser- vation to ascertain if tlie reduction of the deformity was permanently established, but not the slightest tendency to relapse was evinced, and the condition of the foot, three years after treatment, was that shown in Fig. 1487, which is copied from a photograph. I have seen the boy again quite recently; the foot is in excellent position, and there is a very fair amount of movement in the ankle- joint. It is probable that excision of a portion of the tarsus may eventually be proved to be of service in the treatment of some conditions of severe conge- nital varus in the adult, but a more systematic me- thod of performing the operation than has yet been defined must first be introduced ; also, a more careful selection of the subjects for operation must be made, and above all, before resorting to the opera- tion, the less severe measures of tenotomy and mechanical treatment must first be correctly employed. The case quoted above from the Transactions of the Royal Medical and Chirurgical Society of London, shows how large a por- tion of the tarsus may have to be removed before a straight foot (or rather portion of foot) can be obtained; the possibility of a fatal termination must also be considered; and,finally,it must be remembered that the victims of club- foot have often very fair powers of progression; the girl with double varus, whose right foot is illustrated in Figs. 1483 and 1484, walked so well that the condition of her feet would never have been suspected, and she submitted herself to treatment for relief from deformity, and not for the removal of lameness. Fig. 1487. Same case as shown in Fig. 1486, after orthopaedic treatment. Talipes Valgus.—There are two distinct forms of talipes valgus, one of which may be either congenital or acquired, Fig. 1488. while the other is always non-eongenital. The former condition is directly due to muscular disturbance; the latter is the result of defect in the ligaments of the foot, with which mus- cular contraction may or may not be secondarily combined. The congenital form of talipes valgus, which is due to muscular disorganization and may be con- sidered as true valgus, is, like congenital varus, a double distortion of the foot, and the com- bination here may be with either calcaneus or equinus. The appearances presented by a case of congenital valgus combined with calcaneus are represented in Fig. 1488: the outer border of the foot is raised and everted; the arch is wanting ; indeed, the under surface of the inner border of the foot is convex instead of being Congenital caieaneo-vaigus. concave in outline ; the foot is flexed upon the