UTERINE TUMORS. 817 means that carcinoma of the uterus is rapidly fatal, too rapidly for it to effect the metamorphosis of tissue required before a hard schirrous mass can be generated. As a fact, encephaloid and schirrous cancer are only different phases of the same condition; in the one cellular elements predominate, and in the other fibrous tissue. The constitutional origin of cancer is now rarely held, although ten years ago most of the profession in Europe and in this country believed in it. Whatever be the cell-change that precedes its formation, it is now commonly thought a local disease which displays from the outset a profound tendency to poison the general system through the lymphatics, by venous absorption, and by rapid extension of the original disease to neighboring organs. In the cervix, carcinoma usually begins in a degeneration of the connective- tissue cells, with increasing vascularity of the connective-tissue stroma. The new cells which are thus produced assume an epithelial character, and pro- liferate rapidly ; and this may occur either just under the mucous membrane, on the vaginal surface of the cervix, or high up in the cervical canal. In the latter case, they soon destroy the mucous membrane and the submucous tissue, completely excavating the cervical canal. When it begins on the vaginal face of the cervix, the disease is apt to sprout down into the vagina as a cauliflower excrescence; the malignancy of this form has been questioned. After ulceration begins, we lose the power of distinguishing between these several forms of incipient disease. When once fairly developed, its extension is very rapid, and it may invade the body of the womb, spread downward into the vagina, or extend into the pelvic connective tissue. In the latter case the progress is effected “ either by a continuous infiltration of the adjacent connective tissue, or as a chain of nodules running in the direction of the utero-sacral ligaments.”1 After this it directly attacks the neighboring pelvic organs, the bladder most frequently and quite often the rectum, the ovaries, and the pelvic connective tissue. Perforation into the peritoneal cavity occurs in a large minority of cases. Symptoms.— The local symptoms are: (1) Metrorrhagia; (2) Pain; (3) Foul and offensive discharge from the vagina. The general symptoms are: (1) Rapid emaciation and exhaustion ; (2) Peculiar cancerous cachexia. The hemorrhage characteristic of uterine cancer is not simple menorrhagia, although that also commonly occurs ; but consists of sudden gushes of blood, like the lesser hemorrhagic attacks in cases of placenta prcEvia. This may occur while straining at stool, or during any unusual exertion, or spontane- ously ; incautious manipulation during a vaginal examination often occasions it. Although sudden in its onset, the hemorrhage ends in a prolonged drainage which often lasts several days or a week. It is mainly charac- teristic of the early stage of the disease, while the stroma is highly vascular, and before ulceration begins. It perceptibly affects menstruation, which is more prolonged and more profuse than usual ; at middle life this is often mistaken for “ the change of life.” It is seldom, if ever, fatal. Pain is rarely severe in the early stage of uterine cancer, and often is en- tirely absent. But as the disease advances, and either invades the uterine cavity or extends to neighboring tissues, it becomes prominent and is often excessive. The cause of this is multiple: new tissue-formations compress the nerve-filaments; subacute peritonitis is established around the advancing cancer; ulceration of the bladder or rectum is inseparable from pain in those sensitive viscera. It is greatest in schirroid cases, less severe when ulcera- 1 Hart and. Barbour, op. cit., p. 428. VOL. VI.—52