982 SCROFULO-TUBERCULOUS AND OTHER STRUCTURAL DISEASES OF BONES. ways of escape for the pus. I have seen, in the service of M. Ollier, tre- phining of the iliac bone, of the sacrum, of the vertebrae, give brilliant results in such cases.1 It is certain that if the abscess of the pelvis is dependent upon a coxalgia, and if resection is indicated for this, one should never fail, during the operation, to perforate the cotyloid cavity, if it is not perforated already, to give exit to the pus in the pelvis. Drainage of the cotyloid cavity is very efficacious with the last method of resection of the hip devised by M. Ollier. I have practised a resection of the hip in these conditions, and thus far with a perfect result, and one which is the more for- tunate since the patient is a young man, 24 years old, who has also a huge abscess by congestion, of vertebral origin, which has opened spontaneously above Poupart’s ligament on the other side. As for abscesses by congestion, if they are accessible in their whole extent, they should he treated like sessile abscesses. An abscess by congestion, of vertebral origin, cannot be subjected, it will be understood, to scraping or to decortication. There can he no question of surgical interference unless it has become accessible, either in the dorsal, lumbar, or gluteal region, or at the root of the thigh. Only simple opening, with drainage, can be applied to these abscesses. M. Lannelongue advises that all the pus should he evacuated after incision, and that a drainage-tube should be introduced as far as possible, by means of which injections of carbolized water can be made until the pocket is perfectly cleansed. On the succeeding days the same washings are repeated when the wound is dressed. The fever which follows this opera- tion soon subsides. For my own part, I have opened a large number of abscesses by congestion without washing out the sac, and I have never seen fever follow. This, moreover, is the way which I saw employed by Lister. The washing and pressing out of abscesses cause lacerations of the vessels, which create as many mouths for the occurrence of absorption. When tile abscesses have voided their contents, and persist in the condi- tion of fistulous tracks, giving vent to thick serum or badly formed pus in variable and intermittent quantity, what ought to be done? From the effect, we must advance to the cause; from the abscess, to the bone-lesion which keeps up the suppuration. The measures which have been proposed and employed are the following, in the order of their importance: (a) Modifying injections, (b) The actual or potential cautery, (c) Gouging, (d) .Resec- tion, or complete ablation of the bone. (e) Sometimes, amputation of the limb. (a) Modifying Injections.—These have been employed from all time, and have enjoyed the more favor as the results of operations were more doubtful. Their object is to excite a healthy reaction in tissues the vitality of which is feeble, and to favor the elimination of degenerated parts. If the tracks are sufficiently straight, the injection has a chance of reaching the diseased bone;, but if they are very sinuous, the penetration of modifying liquids will be of no real utility unless preliminary drainage has been made, as Chassaignac and M. Ollier have advised. The liquids employed, or proposed, for these injections have been very numerous. I shall mention only those which have remained in use. The tincture of iodine, as efficacious as it is harmless, and Yillate’s solution,, which was introduced to human medicine by Notta, of Lisieux, ought to be mentioned as in the first rank. Charles Heine attributes the cases of death noted after the employment of Villate’s solution to the excess of acetic acid which it contains. For this reason he has modified the formula in the following way: Sulphate of copper and sulphate of zinc, of each five 1 Grouilloud, Osteite du bassin. (These.) Lyon, 1883.