URINARY CALCULUS. 232 been formed of uric acid, and the bladder lias been in fair condition at the time of operating. (Thompson.) (6) Epididymitis occasionally occurs as a complication of lithotrity. It is due to the damage inflicted upon the deep urethra by the instruments em- ployed, or sometimes to the impaction of a fragment in the urethra. In the case of very old men it may possibly develop into a true orchitis, and the latter may culminate in abscess. I have seen one instance of this complica- tion. Ordinarily, however, epididymitis is a very trifling matter, termi- nating in resolution in from two to ten days, and only notable on account of the annoyance which it occasions. Its treatment is by the use of hot anodyne applications and local support, the patient remaining in bed. Ho further sitting of lithotrity should be undertaken until the epididymis and cord are free from any tenderness on pressure. (7) Surgical kidney, fortunately a rare complication, will be considered in speaking of the complications of lithotomy. Search for tiie Last Fragment.—The reproach is constantly made against lithotrity that a fragment is often left behind, and that relapse becomes, therefore, inevitable. Ho patient should be deemed well after lithotrity until his final searching has proved him well, and modern methods of searching are nearly absolute in their conclusions. Phosphatic re-accumula- tion does occur, but this is not relapse, and does not depend upon the persist- ence of any nucleus left behind in the bladder. Such rough methods as making the patient ride a long distance in a vehicle without springs, over a rough road, before calling him well after treatment for stone, are no longer employed ; nor is the condition of the urine a trust- worthy test, for it may continue to show pus long after the last fragment has been removed. Hor can the searcher be relied upon with confidence, for if even a large stone may sometimes elude the searcher in skilled hands, how much more a minute fragment! The method of to-day, which ranks all others in accuracy, is the use of the washing-bottle, as employed in litho- lapaxy, with a small metallic tube. It is not much more painful than sound- ing with the searcher, if the bladder be not over-sensitive; and if it is so used that not a bubble of air is allowed to enter the bladder, there is no test which approaches it in accuracy for detecting a final fragment. Every patient should be subjected to this test before he is pronounced well, and the test should be reapplied after several months. Litholapaxy. Bigelow has chosen this name (from ueo^ a stone, and xartaitj, evacuation) to indicate his operation for the removal of stone. It is essentially lithotrity with the aim of reducing the entire stone to fragments and removing it through a tube by suction at one sitting, without regard to the amount of time consumed. More than three hours have been thus consumed without any resulting harm. Special apparatus for washing, and various tubes and litho- trites have been demised, in order to execute the manoeuvres of the operation more promptly and effectively ; but the essence of the operation consists not in the instruments, but in its design—in the method—and litholapaxy might be effected by any lithotrite, a soft catheter, and a piston syringe, if no better implements were at hand. That litholapaxy has established for itself a recognized position, is plain. In England it has been adopted by Thompson, Coulson, Harrison, and Teevan; in Germany by Billroth, Dittel, and Ultzmann. I have noticed no report