62 INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTION. tom in intestinal obstruction, the patient may be allowed to suck pieces of ice, and large enemata of water may be frequently administered. Kussmaul, Calm, Senator, and Hasenclever, in Germany; Chantemesse, Kuhn, and Fauche, in France; and Whittaker, of Cincinnati, in America, recommend washing out the stomach, as a means of evacuating the fluid contents of the upper part of the small intestine, and thus relieving the distension and allaying the vomiting. The use of purgatives, whether by the mouth or by the rectum, should be absolutely forbidden; but simple enemata of warm water, or, which Head pre- fers, of warm oil, administered through a long tube or nozzle, and preferably by the siphon or “ gravity” method, are often of very great value, and may even be efficient in pushing back the invaginated bowel in the early stages of an intussusception. Libur and Jate have recorded cases in which cures were effected by the injection successively of solutions of bicarbonate of sodium and of tartaric acid, and Ziemssen considers injections of this kind much more valuable than those of simple water; enemata of ox-gall have been recom- mended by Murray, of Newcastle-on-Tyne; and icecl-water injections(which form an important part of what is known as Grissolle’s method of treatment) have been successfully employed by Ivormann, of Coburg. Tobacco enemata were formerly held in high repute, and were favored by the late Dr. Brinton. They are, however, dangerous in themselves, and their advantage over safer remedies is at least doubtful. Inflation of the intestine with air, introduced through a long tube or with a long-nozzled bellows—a mode of treatment as old as Hippocrates—has occasionally succeeded in relieving the obstruction after the failure of other methods, and is certainly worthy of trial in a doubt- ful case, before resorting to an operation. An ingenious instrument for in- flating the bowel has been devised by Mr. Lund, of Manchester, its most important feature being the adaptation of a hollow elastic ring, which, being firmly pressed against the anus, prevents the escape of air by the side of the injecting tube. A few other remedies must be briefly mentioned. The administration of metallic mercury was in past times often resorted to in the treatment of intes- tinal obstruction, and this plan has of late years found an able advocate in a French writer, M. Matignon. There can be no doubt that in cases of obstruc- tion from fecal impaction, the use of mercury in this way has often been successful—not, as was formerly supposed, by the weight of the metal carry- ing everything before it, but, as pointed out by M. Matignon and Mr. Treves, by the drug becoming very finely divided in its onward passage, and by the resulting particles mechanically insinuating themselves around and amid the fecal mass, and thus causing its dislodgment and disintegration. In cases of intussusception or internal strangulation, however, mercury could certainly do no good, and would only aggravate the patient’s condition. Small doses of calomel, intended to produce the antiplastic and alterative effect of the drug, are often administered in connection with opium, but are objectionable in eases of absolute mechanical obstruction, as tending to increase the disten- sion of the bowel by their cathartic action: upon the whole, I think it safer, when a mercurial is indicated, to employ inunction in the way already de- scribed when speaking of the treatment of enteritis. The use of ice by enema has already been referred to, but in what is called Grissolle’s method, it is also employed externally; Haberslion refers to cases in which such an appli- cation was successful, and in cases of ileus paralyticus, from distension, it might do good by stimulating peristaltic action. But where peristalsis is already excessive, as is ordinarily the case in acute obstruction, its effect would be rather prejudicial than otherwise. Electricity no doubt acts in the same way as ice—by promoting peristaltic action—and may be of service in