OPERATIONS ON THE (ESOPHAGUS. 37 The vessels and nerves being now drawn to the outside, if in the track, and the larynx being drawn to the inside with sharp hooks, the layers of the deep cervical fascia are to be divided along the outer edge of the sterno-thyroid muscle ; and then the capsule or inclosing fascia of the thyroid gland is to be opened, if a lobe of that gland be in the way. The loosened lobe of the thyroid gland is next to be drawn upward and inward, so as to expose the trachea, beneath which the oesophagus will be visible at the point of election for incision, between the course of the superior and inferior thyroid arteries. Should either of these vessels cross the proposed line of incision, it should be secured between two ligatures before it is divided, as, indeed, should every vessel ’likely to afford hemorrhage, that may be encountered. The healthy oesophagus is usually easily recognized by its position and appearance. If a guide is to be used, it is now introduced by the mouth in such a manner that the convex portion shall push the oesophagus in the desired direction. If no guide be used, the wall of the oesophagus is to be carefully raised between two pairs of forceps (Bell), and then opened at some little distance from its junction with the trachea, by a series of dissect- ing nicks in the longitudinal direction,1 until the point of the knife has penetrated to the interior, when the incision is to be enlarged sufficiently to permit the introduction of the finger, or to a greater extent if necessary for the purpose in view. If the oesophagus is to be opened upon a conductor, or upon a salient foreign body, its exposed wall can be incised in a single movement. Serious hemorrhage is not to be apprehended, even though the thyroid arteries be wounded.2 Indeed, the operation is often done without occasion to tie any vessel. Injury of the recurrent laryngeal nerve has been suspected in two cases attended by impairment of the voice.3 Should suturing be practised when the oesophageal wound is not to be kept open, it is deemed best to unite the edges of the mucous membrane only, sutures through both muscular structure and mucous membrane being liable to be torn out by traction produced by etforts at deglutition. Some surgeons suture the muscular coat and mucous membrane separately, but most cases have done well without any attempt to close the deeper wound at all. The edges of the integumentary incision are to be united at its upper part only, so that there may be due egress for any matters which may ooze from the wound in the oesophagus. The patient is to be nourished by enemata for forty-eight hours or more, and then, if practicable, for a few days by means of a tube passed beyond the opening, whether introduced through the mouth at intervals, or whether introduced through the nose and retained in position until the oesophageal wound has undergone cicatrization. Liquid nourishment, it appears, can, from the first, be safely given by the mouth, even although portions escape by the wound. External support by a compress during deglutition, reduces this escape to a minimum. Cicatrization may be expected between a fortnight and a month, as a rule, but sometimes it is delayed until the end of two or even three months. If the wound is to be converted into a permanent fistula for feeding (oesophagostomy), a soft tube may be introduced and may be retained by threads or strips. Some care is requisite in inserting tubes. In a case operated upon by me at the clinique of the Jefferson Medical College, for syphilitic stricture at the top of the oesophagus, such a tube had been safely introduced; but an attempt by a 1 Bell, Institutes of Surgery, vol. ii. p. 301. London, 1838. 2 The superior artery was wounded in the cases of Begin, Cock, Arnold, De Lavaclierie, and Sonrier, and in one of Cheever’s : and the inferior artery in one of Cheever’s (Michel) and one of McLean’s. (McLean, Successful (Esophagotomy for the Removal of Foreign Bodies. Trov. 1884.) 3 Cock, Guy’s Hospital Reports, 3d series, vol. iv. p. 217 ; and vol. xiii. p. 1.