56 INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTION. Symptoms of Chronic Obstruction.—These may be conveniently considered in contrast to the symptoms of acute obstruction as already described. The pain in chronic obstruction is not constant as in acute occlusion, but rather paroxysmal, of a distinctly colicky character, and, if the smaller bowel be the seat of obstruction, often coming on at a definite period after eating. If the obstruction suddenly becomes complete—as by a gall-stone becoming im- pacted in an intestinal stricture—the character of the pain instantly changes, being then continuous, though still subject to exacerbations. There is little or no abdominal tenderness, unless peritonitis supervene, and the vital de- pression of acute obstruction is replaced by gradual failure of the vital powers, with emaciation. The vomiting in chronic obstruction is less severe than in the acute variety, and not so apt to be stercoraceous, except before a fatal termination when the occlusion has become complete. Constipation is prob- ably the most important symptom in chronic obstruction, but it is by no means constant, and often alternates with, or is entirely replaced by, diarrhoea. I saw in consultation, some months since, a physician, whom I found to be suffering from cancer of the rectum, which ultimately proved fatal by per- foration followed by fecal extravasation and peritonitis; he was totally un- aware of his condition, and had for six months been treating himself for chronic diarrhoea. Even in cases of fecal impaction, there is often developed a catarrhal state of the bowel, causing a spurious diarrhoea which masks the patient’s real condition. In chronic invagination, according to Rafinesque’s statistics, diarrhoea is the rule and constipation the exception. Tenesmus is often well marked when the obstruction is in the lower bowel. The flow of urine is not commonly affected in chronic obstruction, unless the lesions be near the upper end of the small intestine, when, as already pointed out, it may be diminished. Tympanites is not an early symptom in chronic obstruc- tion, but may become quite prominent toward the termination of the case. When the obstruction affects the rectum or sigmoid flexure, the colon may perhaps be traced along the border of the abdomen, distended with fecal matter, while the tympanitic small intestines occupy the intermediate space. Coils of distended intestine may often be recognized both by touch and sight, especially during paroxysms of pain, and may be seen rolling over each other, as it were, with loud borborygmus and gurgling, the peristaltic motion being obviously arrested at the seat of occlusion. The tumor of intussusception appears to have been less often observed in chronic than in acute cases, but, as justly remarked by Rafinesque, it would no doubt have been noted more frequently if it bad been oftener looked for. The tumor of fecal impaction has already been referred to. A distinct tumor can sometimes be observed in cases of obstruction from malignant neoplasm. Diagnosis of Intestinal Obstruction. There can hardly be any difficulty in distinguishing between acute and chronic obstruction of the bowels, when it is remembered that in the former only are the symptoms those with which surgeons are familiar as accompany- ing strangulated hernia. But when chronic obstruction suddenly becomes acute, its diagnosis from that which is primarily acute is more difficult. Here the surgeon must be mainly guided by the history of the case, and perhaps by noting visible movements in the intestinal coils, a symptom, as already pointed out, almost entirely limited to cases of chronic obstruction. The differential diagnosis of the various forms of obstruction, and, espe- cially in chronic cases, of the part of the bowel involved, are matters of the highest importance, as bearing directly on the question of treatment.