24 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE (ESOPHAGUS. colloid carcinoma.1 There does not appear to be any marked proclivity in any special portion of the oesophagus to become affected. While some ob- servers note the disease as most frequent in the upper third,2 others note it most frequently in the lower third,3 and still others in the middle portion.4 The disease has been known to involve the entire length of the organ.5 What- ever portion be found involved after death, it is not always possible to de- termine whether the main tract of extension has been upward or downward. Carcinoma of the oesophagus is usually primary, and it does not always cause secondary infection. Secondary manifestations may occupy the lymph- atic bronchial glands, the liver—the left lobe most frequently—and the gas- tric glands. Secondary infection is much the least frequent in the small spheroidal-celled variety of carcinoma (scirrhus). The disease rarely remains limited to the organ. Infiltration of the stomach by contiguity is not uncommon when the cardiac extremity of the oesophagus is the seat of the disease. Infiltration takes place likewise into the cervical and mediastinal connective tissue; the trachea, bronchi, and lungs; the aorta and other blood- vessels. Ulceration ensuing, perforation may occur into the trachea, the bron- chi, the pleura, or the lung, the aorta, the pulmonary, subclavian, or carotid artery, or the internal jugular vein. Pressure on the recurrent laryngeal nerve gives rise to paralysis of the laryngeal muscles, necessitating trache- otomy when the dilating muscles are involved on both sides. Sometimes the disease is an extension from carcinoma of the tongue, epiglottis, larynx, pharynx, stomach, or mediastinum. The manner in which the disease begins and spreads is a matter chiefly of theoretical inference, literally beyond our ken. However this may be, it usually ultimately involves the organ in its entire circumference. Ulceration begins early in its pathological history, and very few specimens are observed without it.6 It usually involves the entire circumference in an irregular outline, isolated patches of ulceration being often found in addition. When the ulceration is not annular, it does not seem that the anterior wall is more apt to suffer than the posterior. The ulceration sometimes extends into the adjoining infiltrated tissues to which the oesophagus may have become agglutinated, and perforation thus takes place into the structures mentioned. As the disease progresses, it produces stricture, and then obliteration of the calibre of the oesophagus. After death, the diseased tissue appears in small, roundish, projecting masses covered by epithelium, or in the form of vege- tations or deeply ulcerating masses. The coats of the oesophagus in the vicinity are often thickened, especially the muscular coat; and then dilatation sometimes exists above the constriction. Etiology.—Sex, heredity, and age appear to be predisposing influences. Males are more liable than females. Thus Zenker reports 11 cases out of 15 in males, Mackenzie 71 out of 100, But]in 47 out of 59, Lebert 8 out ot 11, Petri 41 out of 44, and Ziemssen 17 out of 18. This preponderance may be due to the great tendency, in the other sex, for carcinoma to attack the mamma and the uterus.7 One observer8 found a family history of malignant disease in all the cases, ten, of carcinoma which he had met with; but this is an exceptional experience. Mackenzie® found a similar history in but eleven cases out of sixty. Though carcinoma of the oesophagus is infrequent in the 1 Bristowe, Trans. Path. Soc. Lond., vol. xix. p. 228. 1868. 2 Hunter, Haberslion, Mackenzie, Butlin. 3 Petri, Zenker, Ziemssen. 4 Klebs, Rindfleisch. 5 Zenker. 6 Five out of fifty-four in Butlin’s list. 7 Koenig. Pitha und Billroth’s Handbucli, Bd. iii. S. 32. 8 Richardson, Trans. Saint Andrew’s Med. Grad. Assoc., vol. vi. p. 184. 9 Op. cit., vol. ii. p. 73.