VICES OF CONFORMATION OF TIIE URETHRA, 489 of the scrotum. This fold, triangular in shape, holds the penis bound back, and offers a very marked hindrance to erection. Finally, preputial hypospadia may be likewise complicated by a bifid con- dition of the glans, of the prepuce, or of the scrotum, which then assumes a vulviform appearance. (2) Penile Hypospadia.—In this variety of hypospadia the abnormal open- ing may occupy any point of the lower surface of the penis, included between the peno-scrotal angle and the base of the glans. But, there are three points in which it is situated by preference: a short distance from the base of the glans, at the middle part, and at the peno-scrotal angle. The orifice, some- times normal, sometimes very narrow, and generally of oblong shape, with its long diameter antero-posterior, is surrounded by a muco-cutaneous border which is ordinarily very thin. It is important to properly appreciate the dif- ferent conditions of the urethra in front of the hypospadic opening. In the immense majority of cases the canal is wanting in front of the abnormal opening. Sometimes it is the upper wall which persists alone in the shape of a groove, bordered by two more or less elevated, erectile lips—a valuable arrangement from the standpoint of treatment; sometimes this wall is itself absent and transformed into a sort of short, resistant ridge, stretched between the base of the glans and the hypospadic opening. The penis presents at the same time a curvature which is already very appreciable in the state of flaccidity, but especially pronounced during erection, and which does not depend alone on the presence of the ridge which I have just described. In such a case the malformation of the urethra is complicated, as J. L. Petit and Bouisson have shown, by an arrest of development of the fibrous tissues which enter into the composition of the cavernous bodies, and by a contrac- tion of these tissues. In certain very rare cases, the canal is in part pre- served in front of the opening, and one or other of the following arrange- ments is observed: (a) The meatus appears well formed, and "the canal which succeeds it ends in a cul-de-sac at a varying depth; (b) The canal is present in front of the hypospadia, and ends in a cul-de-sac at a greater or less Fig. 1338, Fig. 1339. Peno-scrotal hypospadia.