1155 HISTORY OF SURGERY. If the bone is laid bare of flesh, one must attend and try to find out, what even is not obvious to the sight, and discover whether the bone be broken and contused, or only contused ; and if, when there is an indentation in the bone, whether contusion, or fracture, or both be joined to it; and if the bone has sustained any of these injuries, we must give issue to the blood by perforating the bone with a small trepan, observing the greatest precautions, for the bone of young persons is thinner and more superficial than that of elder persons. Iu section 21 he gives directions how to perform this operation:— And in trepanning you must frequently remove the trepan, on account of the heat in the bone, and plunge it in cold water. For the trepan being heated by running around, and heating and drying the bone, burns it and makes a larger piece of bone around the sawing to drop off, than would otherwise do so. And if you wish to saw at once down to the membrane, and then remove the bone, you must also, in like manner, frequently take out the trepan and dip it in cold water. But if you have not charge of the treatment from the first, but undertake it from another after a time, you must saw the bone at once down to the meninx with a serrated trepan, and in doing so must fre- quently take out the trepan and examine with a sound (specillum), and otherwise along the track of the instrument. For the bone is much sooner saw.n through, provided there be matter below it and in it, and it often happens that the bone is more superfi- cial, especially if the wound is situated in that part of the head where the bone is rather thinner than in other parts. But you must take care where you apply the trepan, and see that you do so only where it appears to be particularly thick, and having fixed the instrument there, that you frequently make examinations and endeavor by moving the bone to bring it up. t He also cautions against placing the trepan over sutures. Space will not admit of any further examination of the inestimable writings of Hippocrates. Enough has been quoted to show thajfc surgery had reached an important degree of development in his day, and that he was a man of marked ability, and worthy of the admiration of his own and succeeding ages. The inhabitants of Argos voted him a statue of gold ; he was more than once crowned by the Athenians, and, though a stranger, was initiated into the most sacred mysteries of their religion, the highest distinction which they could confer. After his death, universal and almost divine honors were paid to his memory, temples were erected to him, and altars were covered with incense and grateful offerings. He was probably the first public teacher of the healing art, the first to disclose its secrets and strip it of its mystic veil, for we are told that he gave oral discourses on anatomy and other branches of medicine. There is an enormous mass of ancient writings on medical and surgical subjects, which is still extant, over which critical scholars have for centuries past puzzled their brains to determine whether they were written by Hippoc- rates himself or by some of his disciples in a subsequent age. The “genuine” treatises of Hippocrates have been cut down more and more, so that at present they are embraced within the compass of seven or eight hundred octavo pages; the apochryphal works are mostly attributed to his followers, for the teachings of this great physician and surgeon formed the foundation of what was long after known as the Hippocratic school. "VVe now pass on by a long stride from the fifth to the third century before the Christian era, finding nothing to record in the way of improvement in the science or art of surgery. Praxagoras of Cos was the last of the Asclepiadee whose name has survived. He is said to have been a bold surgeon, to have incised the fauces freely, and to have excised portions of the soft palate in bad cases of cynanche; and even to have made incisions into the abdomen and bowels to remove obstructions, when milder methods failed. About the beginning of the third century B. C., the famous school of