INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. 534 patient suffers from pyrexia; the disease runs its course; resolution, abscesses* or gangrene, may ensue as in ordinary cases of erysipelas elsewhere. Herpes pra^putialis is brought about by some local irritation acting on a constitution prone to herpes. The eruption is vesicular, and is attended by slight inflammation and itching; the ulceration as a rule is very superficial, but at times is said to cause inflammation and sloughing of the prepuce; relapses are common. These cases should be treated by introducing lint between the prepuce and glans, and by keeping the parts scrupidously clean by means of warm water and some astringent lotion, such as a solution of acetate of lead, sulphate of zinc, or alum; tannin and glycerine; or red wash (E. Zinci sulph. gr. j; sp. rosmarin. "lx; sp. limon. «lx ; aquae f§j.). Powders of zinc-oxide, calomel, iodoform, etc., are also useful. If the foreskin be long, it must be well syringed out by means of a properly shaped syringe. Gouty remedies are often of use, and the condition of the secretions is to be looked to. In some inveterate cases of herpes, the seat of the eruption, the lining membrane of the prepuce, must be removed. Congenital Defects of Penis.—Absence of the penis is rarely met with,, but in cases of epispadia and hypospadia the organ is in a rudimentary con- dition. M. Bouteiller, of Rouen, operated successfully on a child born apparently without a penis. On careful examination he found, just below the pubes, a movable body which felt like the penis, and in its neighborhood a depression through which urine flowed. He dissected out the organ and placed it in its normal position. In some instances the urine is discharged at a distance from the normal site, as at the umbilicus, or the canal for the urine has an opening common to it and the rectum. Nelaton met with the case of a child, born without a penis, who had a properly developed scrotum containing testicles, and who passed water through the rectum.1 Goschler reports a similar case.* Dr. J. W. Hicks observed a foetus in which both bladder and rectum were without any external opening, but communicated with a pouch projecting externally in the posi- tion and form of the scrotum. From this scrotal pouch a narrow canal passed upwards with two openings, one into the bladder and the other into the rectum. Both testes were in the abdomen. Cases where the penis is multiple are very rare. A case is recorded by Gore, of Boulogne ;3 the penis was double, with the corpora cavernosa placed side by side ; eacli organ was provided with a urethral canal. In Geoffroy Saint Hilaire’s case the two organs were also separate, but one was placed above the other, and urine or semen was discharged indifferently by one or the other. Mr. Ernest Hart’s case4 is fully reported, and engravings are given; the patient was a well-grown, healthy man, who had between his thighs a third limb, formed of a wasted thigh, leg, and foot. In front of the thigh was an ill-developed scrotum, and on each side of it a well-formed scrotum inclosing normal testicles. The penis was double, each organ being well developed and normally situated. The left, the one most in use, was longer than the right. Both became erect under excitement and discharged urine or semen simultaneously. Another interesting case, unassociated with foetal inclusion, as in Mr. Hart’s patient, is narrated by Drs. Van Buren and Keyes.5 Mr. Wood found, in a well-developed man, an abnormal urethra an inch and a half long, situated above the true urethra, which was slightly hypospadic. The false urethra occupied the position of the fossa navicularis, of which it was probably a backward development. It did not communicate with the urethra, a double fold of mucous mem- brane separating the two canals.6 1 Gaz. des Hop., 28 Janv. 1854. 2 Vierteljahrschrift fur practische Heilkunde, 1857. 3 Compt. rend. Acad, des Sciences, 1844. 4 Lancet, June, 1866. 5 Op. cit. 6 Trans. Path. Soc. Lond., vol. x. p. 201.