NYMPHOMANIA. 757 able ; society does not need diseased and degenerated products, “ destined to misery or crime,” but healthy offspring. Where the sterility is associated with obesity, regulation of diet and suitable exercise, if the patient can be brought under proper control, may cause the condition to disappear. Artificial Fecundation.—This should be regarded as the ultima ratio in the treatment of sterility ; it is rarely proper, and success is doubtful and to be obtained only with great patience and perseverance. In its performance, an ordinary hypodermic syringe, to which a suitable rubber canula has been adapted, may be used. The canula is inserted into the uterus, and a small quantity of the fresh seminal discharge is placed in the syringe, which is then applied to the canula, and two or three drops are injected into the womb. The patient remains in a horizontal position for several hours. The time when success is least doubtful is a few days after menstruation; failing then, an attempt may be made a few days before the flow isdue. Nymphomania. Nymphomania is an affection of the female corresponding to satyriasis in the male, and may be defined as an uncontrollable and insatiable desire for coition. Voisin1 refers to it as the violent, disordered, and almost continual expression of the reproductive instinct. Synonyms are uteromania, metro- mania., andromania, erotomania, hypathia, furor uterinus, and hysteria libidi- nosa. Esquirol, and other writers have followed his example, restricts the term erotomania to a purely intellectual and moral affection—a platonic love —while nymphomania is essentially and solely sensual and fleshly, the mad- ness of salacity, the delirium of lust. The disease has been observed in children only a few years old, and also in the octogenarian, but occurs most frequently, according to Foville,2 at the beginning and at the end of sexual life. Writers have been accustomed to describe three periods or stages in the disease. In the first, the patient is silent, depressed, and melancholy ; she has voluptuous dreams and reveries, but her obscene thoughts and lustful desires are carefully concealed, and her will still governs her conduct. In the second period she no longer hides her desires, but, especially in the presence of the male, with lascivious looks and voluptuous attitudes testifies to the strong passion which rises superior to her will. In the third stage there is a com- plete abandonment of all propriety and decency, and entire loss of self-control; as Cabanis has said, the timid girl is transformed into a bacchante, and the most sensitive modesty into a furious audacity which not even the effrontery of prostitution can approach; Manget mentions the case of a young girl of noble family, and very modest, who in her attacks of nymphomania homines et canes ipsos ad congressum provocabat. Ftiology.—A predisposition to nymphomania may be present in some cases, especially as determined by heredity ; in some females of vivid imagination the disease may be caused by impure associates, whose evil communications corrupt good manners, or by such pictures,‘novels, plays, and dances, as suggest licentious thoughts and excite the genesic instinct: the so-called revelations of the secrets of love to a young girl by an older companion, are too often the kindling of the flame of foul lust which utterly consumes modesty of manner and purity of character. “ Nymphomania is observed, in the character of a secondary or transitory symptom, in different forms of mental alienation, such as the period of the beginning of general paralysis, the expan- 1 Maladies Mentales. 2 Nouveau Dictionnaire de Medecine et de Cliirurgie Pratiques.