780 THE CJESAREAN SECTION AND ITS SUBSTITUTES. remember that all of the subjects of the latter had been in labor over twenty-four hours, except two that recovered, one that was moribund, one whose case was otherwise hopeless, one that was exposed to an outbreak of erysipelas in a hospital, and one whose case was complicated by the exist- ence of a fibroid tumor; the remainder were in labor 2, 3, 3, 3J, and 4 days respectively. Of 11 patients, 2 were saved, who bad been in labor 91 anil 24 hours respectively. As laparo-elytrotomy has saved two patients who were in labor four days and a week respectively, we must regard it as better adapted than the old method of operating to save the lives of those whose cases have been rendered in large measure hopeless for the Caesarean section, with its exposed peritoneal cavity, and, still worse, its wounded uterus. This operation deserves a special trial in England, where the Caesarean and Porro-Caesarean operations have been so largely fatal. It is true that poverty and intemperance make very bad subjects of her women, but the avoidance of the uterine wound promises much better results, as far as we can judge theoretically. Puerperal Laparotomy, or Laparotomy after Rupture of the Uterus. Delivery of the foetus ly abdominal section as an elective measure after uterine rupture, belongs to the teachings of modern obstetrical surgery, and as yet to very advanced views. To perform this operation even when the foetus must otherwise remain in the abdominal cavity, is also of modern date, and has been very much neglected where it should have been promptly done. But to open and cleanse the abdominal cavity, and, if found practic- able or advisable, to sew up the uterine rent, even in cases where the foetus can be readily removed per vias naturales without drawing it back through the laceration, is a still more recent proposition, which has for its recommend- ation the facts of the dangers of septic poisoning after uterine rupture, as ordinarily treated, and the value of abdominal antiseptic cleansing in the removal of ovarian and other intra-peritoneal tumors. The. immediate effect of rupture of the uterus is one of shock, which may prove rapidly fatal. If the exhaustion does not end in collapse, the patient may rally and be in a fit condition to lie benefited by the operation; but many women never react so as to admit of it, and many who do are not operated upon ; if delivery can be effected per vias naturales, they are delivered ; if not, they are left to recover or die, as the end may show. Judging from what must be the pro- portionate number of ruptures in our large cities, counting one case to tour thousand births, we are forced to the conclusion that many suitable cases are not dealt with by the knife, but are left to nature entirely; which means that death results in a large proportion that might be saved by laparotomy. This operation has often been confounded with the Caesarean section, the name given to which by Gardien of Paris, in 1816—that is, “ gastro-hystero- tomie—fully explains its nature. The two should be kept entirely distinct, as laparotomy is the less fatal; it is rarely performed in the interest of two lives, and the subjects of it are generally much more healthy. The record of the United States shows a higher percentage of saved, and so do some of the European statistics. Dr. Ludwig Winckel saved five out of thirteen •Ceesarean cases, and three out of four where laparotomy followed a rupture of the uterus. Laparo-hysterectom.y in cases of rupture has been called the Porro operation, but erroneously, in that it is not “ completive of the Ceesarean section.” The initial operation was performed in Moscow by Dr. Oscar Prevot, in Uov. 1878, since which time six others have followed his example, all with fatal con-