079 FIBROMATA OF THE BONES. 2 Osteosarcomes des Membres. Paris, 1880. vention necessary having disappeared, it was not necessaiy to have recourse to ablation of the fragment of bone, which was engrafted in the midst of the neighboring tissues. The danger of these different methods is in many cases the occurrence of consecutive osteomyelitis, but the employment of the antiseptic method has considerably modified the prognosis of these operations. In certain cases palliative procedures have been employed. Ledentu,1 in a patient who had an exostosis of the femur, practised subcuta- neous section of the vastus extern us, and this operation put an end to a violent pain which was accompanied by contracture. Fibromata of the Bones. Fibromata, or fibrous tumors, of the bones are very rare, and many of them have been confounded with sarcomata. These tumors are made up anatomi- cally of fasciculated fibrous tissue. They maybe divided, according to their point of departure, into periosteal and central, according as they start in the periosteum or in the medullary tissue. The latter are by far the rarer. Periosteal fibromata are seen on the bones of the face and of' the cranium. Naso-pharyngeal polypi belong to this variety. Some of the tumors form- erly grouped under the name of epulis were fibromata. Volkmann says that he has seen them upon the pelvis and upon the ribs. In regard to fibrous tumors of the pelvis, I will mention a peculiar variety of tumor of the pelvic cavity, and especially of the wall of the abdomen, of which I formerly saw several examples in the service of Professor Ollier, and for which I have thrice had occasion to practise ablation in my own service. These tumors, mentioned for the first time by Nekton, are attached to the crest of the ilium, or to some point of the pelvic rim, by a longer or shorter pedicle coming from the periosteum. They are seen most frequently in women. They have no relation to the bone, or rather to the periosteum, except their starting-point, and should not be included in a description of fibromata of the bones. Central fibromata have been described by Paget in the inferior maxilla, the walls of which they push apart until they end by perforating them, and thus come to protrude on the outside. They have been rarely observed in the epiphyses of the large long bones, in the phalanges, and in the vertebrae. Fibromata often undergo certain transformations. They become calcified, rarely are they ossified, sometimes they undergo fatty degeneration, or become cystic. In some cases they exhibit great vascularity. Their possible trans- formation into sarcomata is still doubtful, although admitted by G. Weber and Ed. Schwartz.2 At any rate, it is well not to irritate such neoplasms; and if, from the anatomical point of view, the transition between sarcoma and fibroma is already only in some sort a question of degree, it must not be lost sight of that from the clinical point of view every neoplasm is a step taken toward a more serious new formation. These tumors are formed by an agglomeration of hard lobules, constituted individually of a tangle of concentric fibrils. (Cornil and Ranvier.) They always remain well separated from the neighboring tissues. They are seen most frequently in youth and adolescence. Their growth is more or less rapid, and they may attain a very large size. It is to be noticed that certain varieties of these tumors, those known under the name of naso-pharyngeal polypi, are an exception to this rule; and that the majority of surgeons "now admit, 1 Revue Mensuelle de Medecine et de Cliirurgie, 1879.