AMPUTATION OF THE CERVIX UTERI. 739 —the operation is supposed to he done for cancer—the affected parts are taken away with the curette, or with the thermo-cautery knife. The dress- ing advised by Verneuil is a compress of gauze made antiseptic with car- bolic acid or iodoform, and changed when it becomes soiled. The wire-rope ecraseur is applied with less difficulty, and is therefore to be given the preference if either instrument is to be used; the majority of surgeons reject both, though amputation by the ehain-ecraseur is, according to Schwartz, one of the methods most generally employed in France. Amputation with the Galvano-Cautery Wire or Knife.—A Sims’s speculum made of vulcanite is preferable to a metallic one for exposure of the cervix, which, after exposure, is caught with a tenaculum or a Museux’s forceps, no attempt, however, being made to draw it to the vulva; the platinum wire is then placed so as to encircle the neck at the point to be divided, and is tightened before making connection with the battery. Should the shape of the neck be such that the wire slips down, an ivory pin may be placed just below the place which it is to occupy, penetrating the neck from one side to the other.1 The wire should not be heated above a dull-red heat, in order to avoid hemorrhage, and the current, therefore, must be frequently interrupted, and cold antiseptic irrigations of the vagina prac- tised ; the amputation requires several minutes, the time of course varying with the thickness of the structure to be divided. The eschar is detached in from one to two weeks, and antiseptic injections should be used before and after its detachment until perfect healing is accomplished. The possi- bility of dangerous bleeding should be borne in mind ; profuse hemorrhage occurred during the operation in a case of Griinewaldt’s, the patient dying, and Terrillon lost a patient from secondary hemorrhage eight days after the operation. Amputation with the galvanic knife is a protracted operation, though it has the advantage of being bloodless or nearly so. The same frequent interrup- tions of the current and cold antiseptic vaginal injections are to be used during this operation, as were advised in amputation with the galvanic wire. Ilegar and Ivaltenbach, rejecting both the ecraseur and the galvano-eautery wire, speak of the latter as serving only for palliative or preparatory treat- ment in cancer, since it is usually impossible by it alone to remove all the diseased tissue; they also condemn it because of the possibility of primary or secondary hemorrhage, the impossibility of obtaining primary union, and the liability to stenosis or atresia at the position of the retracted cicatrix. Some of the same objections may be made to the use of the galvanic knife. Byrne, who has had a large experience with the galvano-eautery wire in amputation of the cancerous cervix, claims that if traction be made upon the neck during the operation, the stump will not be flat but funnel-shaped. A similar statement is made by Spiegelberg and Griinewald, who say, though making no reference to traction upon the cervix, that the wound made by the cautery wire is always found excavated in its central part, or, in other words, that this instrument makes a conoid amputation. Amputation with the Thermo-Cautery Knife.—This instrument finds its most important, if not its only application in the operation for malignant disease of the cervix. Nevertheless, though more available than the gal- vanic knife, it is a coarser instrument, which is liable to destroy healthy 1 Thomas (Diseases of Women) has devised forceps for holding the cervix, and over this instrument the platinum loop may he readily slipped. One of the best plans for applying the loop is by using the instrument of Cheron, described in Le Blond’s Chirurgie Gynecologique.