904 SCROFULO-TUBERCULOUS AND OTHER STRUCTURAL DISEASES OF BONES. tion.” M. Grancher has been able to follow the different phases of evolution of the tuberculous process, to see it pass from the rudimentary state to the state of complete development. At the beginning there is an ordinary cellu- lar proliferation, common granulation-tissue, which would net have any signification if there were not in its neighborhood more advanced formations. These embryonic cells arrange themselves in a circle, and group themselves into microscopic nodules. This is what M. Grancher calls an embryonic tubercle, and M. Malassez an elementary tubercle. This tubercle, or embryonic nodule, being met with in larger numbers in scrofulous affections, M. Grancher also calls it scrofuloma. Scrofuloma is characteristic of scrofula, and, engendering tubercle, explains how a scrofulous person may become tuberculous, and how the same patient may perhaps have at the same time strumous and tuberculous lesions. The following is the mode in which scrofuloma becomes tubercle, according to M. Grancher: In the centre of the group of cells there appears a homogeneous mass, opaque and yellow, in a new evolution, surrounded by clusters of epithelioid cells. This collar of epithelioid cells is itself surrounded by a zone of embryonic cells. What has happened? The original embryonic cells of the centre of the group have undergone transformations which have provoked their fusion. The fusion of these cells gives rise to the cell called a giant-cell, and announces caseous degeneration. So think MM. Charcot and Grancher. According to others, the so-called giant-cell is made by cutting across the small vessel, pre-existent or of new formation, around and at the expense of which the tuberculous follicle is developed (Cornil and Ranvier, Kierner, etc.). The union of a number, of tuberculous follicles in a single mass constitutes the complete maturation of the tuberculous process, that is to say, the old gray granulation of Laennec, the conglomerate tubercle of M. Charcot. If such is the evolution of tubercle, the gray granulation, which suffices, when it is present, to fix the character of a lesion, can no longer be con- sidered the univocal criterion of tuberculosis. Which is the metamorphosis of the tubercle-cell, which is the most constant? The study of this ques- tion has called forth numerous histological works. In 1868, Langhans, after having discovered the epithelioid cells and the giant-cells, believed that those cells alone were characteristic of tuberculosis. Schuppel adopted these ideas. Roster having found the giant-cell and epithelioid cells in fungosities of the joints, Friedlander in lupus, and at a later period Brissaud and Josias in scrofulous gummata and Lannelongue in the walls of independent cold abscesses as welt as in those of ossifluent abscesses, there was uo hesita- tion in declaring the characteristic suggested by Langhans and Schuppel to be true. But soon the same elements—tuberculous follicles and giant-cells— were met with in the gummata of syphilis, in the ulcers of lepra, in sarcoma, in granulations; and, to complete the, confusion, tuberculous follicles and giant-cells were obtained at will by injecting animal matters, or any inert matter whatsoever, into the lungs, the bloodvessels, the cellular tissue, and the peritoneum of animals, or by simply placing in their abdomen elder-pith, fragments of glass, etc. The univocal criterion of tuberculosis was, then, still to be sought for. It was at this time that M. Martin1 was led by experimentation to distin- guish true tubercles and pseudo-tubercles. The latter are only common inflam- matory products provoked by the injection of irritating materials into the tissues, and, when they are inoculated upon new animals, they are not repro- duced; whilst the tubercles resulting from the inoculation of true tuberculous matter, inoculated in their turn, are reproduced indefinitely from one animal to 1 Archives de Physiologie, 1881.