PREPARATION OF MILITARY SURGEONS FOR FIELD DUTIES. 1135 to render them efficient in every respect, and that the intention of the law is carried out. The surgeons-in-chief of divisions look to the medical director for orders, instructions, and suggestions in reference to the fitting up of the different hospitals ; he should there- fore instruct them as to the number of tents to be pitched, and as to whether it is desirable to construct tire-places, erect bunks, dig wells, etc. etc. As a general rule, verbal orders will be sufficient. When a movement is ordered, the medical director should ask for instructions in reference to the sending off of sick and wounded, the breaking up of hospitals, and the number of ambulances and wagons allowed to march with the troops and the number to be sent to the rear, and on receiving them will give the necessary orders in writing, specifying the number of tents and flies to be carried, as well as the amount of hospital supplies, medical stores, clothing, and rations, and directing the surgeons-in-chief’ of divisions to see that the “ hard bread” is put up in the ambulance boxes, and that the field companions and hospital knapsacks are tilled. Orders should be given to the chief ambulance officer in reference to the position of the stretcher-bearers ; as a general rule they should all march with their commands, with stretchers. When only a limited number of ambulances accompany the troops, all the stretchers should go to the front strapped on the ambulances. Orders should be given to have the water-kegs tilled. On the march, the medical director accompanies the staff, acquainting himself as far as practicable with the nature of the country passed over, the general direction and condition of the roads, the position of the houses, streams, woods, etc. etc. This knowledge will materially assist him in the selection of hospital sites. When an engagement commences, the medical director should ascertain the position of the troops, and should immediately communicate with the surgeons-in-chief of divisions, directing the establishment of field depots for the wounded at such points as will be most conve- nient for collecting them, and where the ambulances can come up. In locating these depots, special care must be taken to have them as near the line of troops as possible, so as to diminish the distance of stretcher transportation. Ravines and woods should be taken advantage of as a protection against the enemy’s fire ; if necessary, a breastwork can be thrown up by the attendants. An occasional bullet or an occasional shell is not sufficient to warrant medical officers in leaving their posts. If practicable, the medical director should himself visit and inspect these depots, and give orders that will insure the object of their establishment; he should also consult with the chief ambulance officer as to the best roads, everything considered, to be taken by the ambulances. Should the enemy fall back, these depots should be removed farther to the front; should our own troops yield the ground, the depots must be moved farther to the rear. The moment the number of wounded warrants the establishment of division hospitals, the corps commander should be consulted as to the locality of these hospitals in a military point of view. The medical director then selects the site himself, or designates some one to do it in his name. Orders should be immediately given to the surgeons-in-chief of divisions, and to the chief ambulance officer, designating the locality chosen. Should a lull occur in the firing, or the enemy be driven back, orders must be immediately given to advance the field depots and to take all the available ambulances to the front, so as to pick up the wounded as rapidly as possible and convey them to the hospitals. During an engagement, the duty devolving upon the medical director of a corps to select a site for the different hospitals of the corps is not always an easy one. As a general rule, they should be placed near the most practicable roads, in rear of the centre of the troops, and sufficiently to the rear to be out of the ordinary range of the enemy’s guns ; suitable ground, good water, and plenty of fuel must of course decide the choice of locality. During the action, the medical director must keep himself thoroughly ac- quainted with the movements of the troops, and must act accordingly. The corps may take up a new position with a different front; sometimes a part or even the whole of a corps may meet a superior force and be repulsed ; under such circumstances the medical director should be ready to act promptly, and to transfer his wounded to a safer locality. Should the corps commander be present, he will advise his medical director of the state of affairs, and give orders in reference to the removal of the hospitals. There are times, however, in which the medical director is called upon to act upon his own responsibility. Should it become necessary to leave the wounded in hospitals in the hands of the enemy, the medical director will see that they are properly sheltered, that a sufficient number of