617 ORCHITIS. that a protrusion of the tubuli seminiferi takes place through the aperture thus formed. The confinment of the inflamed and swollen substance by the dense and unyielding tunica albuginea, sufficiently explains the peculiar hardness and painfulness of the tumor. The absorption of the coats of the testis, and of the scrotum, obviates the tension of the parts, and thereby restores ease to the patient at the same time that the fungus makes its appearance externally. As an improved method of treatment, Lawrence recommended removal of the fungus by means of escharotics, ligature, or the knife, instead of removal of the gland by castration, the previously recognized measure. With regard to this operation, Mr. Syme justly remarks that it requires a portion of the gland to be sacrificed in order to preserve the rest, and that in some eases the epididymis alone remains; moreover the treatment, whether con- ducted by escharotics or by the knife, is necessarily tedious. In the opera- tion proposed by Mr. Syme, and which goes by his name, we possess a method of cure at once conservative, safe, and rapid. Knowledge of the pathological changes which occur, induced Mr. Syme to argue that pressure was the most rational mode of treatment, and that thfe could be best applied by returning the tumor to its proper situation, in the scrotum, and by covering it with its natural covering, the elastic skin. This is best done by making an elliptical incision around the base of the tumor, when, having removed the circle of indurated, undermined skin, and dissected up the integu- ment in order to make a pouch for the reception of the fungus testis, this is to be placed in the pouch, and the skin is to be carefully united over it with wire sutures. The skin adheres to th° surface of the fungus, and the cut margins unite together more or less by the first intention. The above operation was a favorite one with the late Sir William Fergus- son, who performed it in the manner described, but was in the habit of using harelip pins to keep the edges of the integument together, instead of inter- rupted sutures. I have seen a considerable number of these cases operated on by Sir William, and by Mr. Henry Smith, with remarkable success. Mr. Holmes Coote questioned the integrity of the testicle after hernia testis had been present. Mr. Syme differed in opinion from him, and Dr. Duncan’s patient, having had his only testicle (the other having been lost previously) treated in this way, was satisfied as to its soundness and usefulness. This question, an important one from a medico-legal point of view, could only be settled by microscopic examination of the semen. Spermatozoa have been found in the discharge from the fungus before operation.1 Mr. Curling,2 in 1843, advocated the treatment of fungus testis by means of a compress and strapping only. The same surgeon has practised the following operation, a modification of Mr. Syme’s It consists in making two or three radiating incisions, half an inch or more long, in the skin encircling the fungus, and dissecting back the triangular flaps of skin. The margin of the constricting ring is to be dissected off, and the fungus repressed by pressure. The sore closes by gradual cicatrization. M. Jarjavay3 describes a superficial form of fungus testis. Mr. Curling removed an enlarged testicle from a man aged twenty-four, which was asso- ciated with an open sore in the scrotum. There were several patches of yellow fibro-plastic matter in the body of the testis, and the whole of the epi- didymis was infiltrated and destroyed by the morbid growth. A consider- able portion of fibro-plastic material grew from the visceral layer of the 1 Med. Times, July, 1850. 2 Diseases of the Testicle (1st edition). London, 1843. 8 Archives G8n. de Med., 4me serie, t. xx.