794 OVARIAN AND UTERINE TUMORS. upon the neighboring abdominal organs. Constipation results from pressure on the lower intestines; renal disturbance, and often albuminuria, from direct compression of the renal bloodvessels; crural neuralgia, or vague neuralgic pains in the lower extremities, from pressure on the pelvic nerves. At this period of development, the cyst usually tills the right or left iliac region, and is easily perceptible when the patient lies recumbent, and the abdominal walls are relaxed. Its position is rarely central, although cases are sometimes met with where the mass ascends from the first, in the median line, pushing the uterus forward upon the pubis or back into the hollow of the sacrum. Gradually, however, unless early adhesions exist, the development of the cyst becomes more central, until it fills the whole lower abdomen as high as the umbilicus. It is at this stage that ovarian cysts have often been mistaken for pregnancy; especially if the cyst-wall be thick and tense, and in the limited class of cases where many of the sympathetic disturbances of pregnancy coex- ist-—blueness of the vagina, morning sickness, and mammary enlargement, with perhaps the presence of some milk in the breasts. Two distinctive signs of exclusion can, however, always be obtained by the careful diagnostician: although the uterus be enlarged, the cervix is never typically soft, and no sensation approaching that of true ballottement can be obtained. No caution can, however, be too great in pronouncing a final opinion in such circum- stances, and the want of it has led to many deplorable results. As development advances, the liver and stomach suffer increasing com- pression, and dyspeptic symptoms rapidly supervene; constipation becomes more obstinate, the general health deteriorates, the patient is emaciated, and often amenorrhoea is observed. At a still later period, the thorax is affected by the upward growth of the cyst; the lower ribs are pushed out, the dia- phragm is elevated, the heart and lungs are compressed, and constant inter- ference with the functions of these organs results. The patient now becomes short-breathed and feeble; and death closes the scene, either from the pro- gressive increase of these conditions, or by the advent of some comparatively trifling intercurrent disease. The physical signs of ovarian cysts are yet more important than the rational, and, indeed, constitute the sole basis upon which a diagnosis can rest. For- merly these were obscure and doubtful, and the imperfect methods adopted led to an apparently insuperable barrier to obtaining accurate results. At the present day, thanks to the unwearied efforts of Spencer Wells in Eng- land, of Atlee and Peaslee in this country, and of a host of intelligent inves- tigators in every land, the diagnosis of ovarian cystoma is as accurate as that of lobar pneumonia ; and errors, which, a generation ago, were of daily occurrence, are in the hands of an expert now inexcusable. The methods of physical exploration by which the crucial test of an ovarian cyst is reached, are thus tabulated by Thomas,1 in a chapter so admirable that every student of this subject should familiarize himself with it:— Inspection and Manipulation. Mensuration. Palpation. Percussion. Auscultation. Vaginal touch. Rectal touch. The Uterine sound. Aspiration or Paracentesis. Chemical and Microscopical examination of the Tumor. Explorative incision. If it be asked, is it always necessary to resort to these numerous and seem- ingly redundant methods to diagnose an ovarian cyst, the answer is obvious. Op. cit., p. 702.