725 DISEASES OF THE CERVIX UTERI. its margins somewhat tense, is to introduce into the rectum a large-sized Hegar’s dilator, Uo. 24, for example. The freshening of the fistulous borders is done as in the operation for vesico-vaginal fistula, and so too is the appli- cation of sutures; these are preferably introduced from below upwards, rather than from side to side; in other words, a transverse fistula is more readily cured than a longitudinal one, the tissues yielding more readily from above downwards than laterally. In the rectal method the patient lies either upon her back or upon her side. This method, according to Emmet,should belimited to fistul* of moderate size, and to those in which the sides of the opening cannot be readily brought together from the vagina; denudation causes more hemorrhage, and the stitches are more liable to cut out, than in the vaginal operation. A univalve speculum is used to draw back the posterior rectal wall, and a retractor is employed for each side of the anus, while a finger in the vagina assists in exposing the fistula. The further details of the operation have been sufficiently indicated in speaking of the vaginal method. Levrat has suggested combining these operations. He proposes separating, all around the circumference of the fistula, both the rectal and the vaginal mucous membrane, and then intro- ducing two sets of sutures, one on either side. In any case, if rectal sutures are to be used, it is probable that those of catgut will be the most convenient and satisfactory. In a case in which there had been great destruction of the recto-vaginal wall, and in which the retroflexed uterus had descended cpiite low, Simon united the anterior lip of the womb to the inferior border of the fistula, when of course all uterine discharge passed into the rectum. The perineal method is employed when the fistula is otherwise inaccessible, or, according to Emmet, when it is situated “directly against the sphincter,” whence a difficulty of obtaining good union because of the contractions of the muscle. Emmet advises dividing the perineum and sphincter directly to the fistula by scissors, freshening the sides of the fistula, and uniting the tissues as in perineal laceration. Hegar and Ivaltenbach employ for the pre- liminary section a probe-pointed bistoury, or a scalpel and director. After an operation for recto-vaginal fistula, the treatment, especially as regards the management of the bowels, will be the same as that advised after perineorrhaphy and perineoplasty.1 Diseases of the Cervix Uteri. Ulceration of the Cervix.—If there be procidentia of the womb, one usually sees in the vicinity of the external os one or more depressed cavities, with somewhat irregular borders, and here we have true ulceration, an actual destruction of tissue. But excepting the ulcers thus presented, and those which occur in syphilitic or in malignant disease, true ulceration of the cervix is rarely found. It has been customary to divide benign ulcers of this part into simple, granular, vegetating, and varicose. In airthese varieties, however, no loss of tissue is found, the supposed ulcer, so far from being de- pressed, usually presenting a surface elevated above the surrounding tissues. As West2 said more than thirty years ago, “ the ulcerations of the os uteri seldom or never present an excavated appearance with raised borders, as ulcers of other parts often do; but either their surface is smooth, or it pro- jects a little beyond the level of the adjacent tissue.” But what is the significance of these conditions which practitioners have for a generation been describing and treating as ulcerations of the cervix ? In the simplest form 1 See page 688, supra. 2 Crooniau Lectures, 1854.