INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE URETHRA. 452 occupy us in this study. Spasmodic stricture, or rather spasm of the urethra^ will be discussed hereafter. In all time, strictures of the urethra have attracted the attention of surgeons, and medical literature is extremely rich in regard to this subject. Etiology and Pathogenesis.—Two orders of causes concur in the production of strictures : sometimes they are due to inflammation, which modifies the tissues constituting the tunics of the urethra, deprives them of their supple- ness, and impresses upon them a mode of vitality of which the principal characteristic is contractibility; sometimes they succeed a traumatism which determines a solution of continuity, a loss of substance in the urethral walls, the repair of which brings about the formation of a cicatrix, essentially con- tractile. To these two varieties of stricture (inflammatory and cicatricial) may be added a third, which has a similar pathogenesis; I mean that variety which supervenes upon an acute inflammation, followed by ulceration and loss of substance, the repair of which induces the formation of modular, con- tractile tissue. In these cases, which are, however, exceptional, the stricture is at the same time both inflammatory and cicatricial. (1) Inflammatory Strictures.—The works of J. Guerin, of Mercier, of Cruveilhier, and of A. Guerin,1 have especially contributed to elucidate the pathogenesis of this class of strictures. Everybody is agreed nowada}Ts to consider inflammatory strictures as the result of infiltration of the submucous tissues, of obliteration of the vascular spaces, and of fibrous organization of exudates, ending finally in contraction and atrophic condensation of the normal tissues. As to the mucous membrane itself, always more or less intact, since its lymphatic vessels remain permeable, it is simply pushed back toward the axis of the canal. This plastic infiltration of the connective, muscular, and spongy tissues, which follows inflammation of the mucous membrane of the urethra, is not, however, necessarily followed by formation of a stricture. The exudate may be soon absorbed, and this complication may be absolutely wanting after even very intense urethritis. On the other hand, quite often, in consequence of peculiar idiosyncrasies, the exudate is seen to become organized, and stricture to follow inevitably, in individuals affected with urethritis which is benign and of only short duration. Most commonly, complete resorption is prevented by some cause which maintains and prolongs acute phlegmasia, and gives it chronicity. Such constitutional and diathetic conditions as arthritis, herpetism, and scrofula, appear to possess positive influence in this regard, and as much may be said of errors of regimen, and of direct irritation resulting from indiscreet manoeuvres with the catheter, or from caustic injections, which bring about successive returns to an acute state, and thus prevent resolution of the neoplasm. (2) Cicatricial Strictures.—Less common than the preceding, these stric- tures are the consequence of a lesion of the walls of the urethra, causing a more or less extensive loss of substance which cannot be filled up without the interposition, between the lips of the wound, of an essentially contractile cicatrix. Contrary to what we have seen in inflammatory strictures, the mucous membrane is here completely destroyed and replaced by modular tissue, which does not admit of being penetrated by injection of the lym- phatics. The production of cicatricial tissue is not, however, the only cause of coarctation here, and inflammation of the submucous tissues likewise plays its part. Most cicatricial strictures result from a traumatic lesion of the urethra: a simple wound with a cutting instrument, a contused wound caused by falling astride upon the perineum, a surgical operation, such as catheterization or lithotrity, or, again, the lodgment of a foreign body. But 1 Mem. de la Soc. de Chir., t. iv. p. 122.