INFLUENCE OF OSSEOUS INFLAMMATIONS ON THE GROWTH OF BONES. 881 Influence of Osseous Inflammations on the Growth of Bones. Certain changes of form and volume which the bones may undergo in acute or chronic inflammation, have long been recognized; but it is only recently that search has been made for the cause of these changes, and that the question has been asked why inflamed bones remain shorter than their congeners in some cases, and under other circumstances assume larger pro- portions. My experimental researches, while enabling me to determine the laws of physiological growth, have also demonstrated the laws of patho- logical growth ; and we are able to-day, by studying the seat and duration of inflammation, to know beforehand what disturbance it will bring to the development of the organ. Every persistent irritation of a diaphysis, whether periosteal or medullary, is manifested in a young patient by an exaggerated growth of the part. The bone is more or less hypertrophied, that is to say, increased in length ' and thickness, whenever the irritation has been intense enough to propagate itself gradually to the periphery and to the extremities of the diaphysis, without however causing destructive suppuration. When a bone is irri- tated by lacerating the periosteum, by breaking up the medulla, or by intro- ducing foreign bodies into it, there is soon observed sub-periosteal hyperplasia associated with abnormal lengthening. When a bone is denuded of its periosteum, this bone does not increase in thickness, because the elements of increase in this direction have been removed; but it increases in length.1 This increase in length is not due to interstitial growth; it is due to hyper- plasia of the connecting cartilage, the cellular elements of which have become more prolific. To demonstrate this, it is only necessary to fix pegs at certain distances from each other, in the diaphysis and the terminal epiphyses, and to cause in any way, independently of the action of the pegs, a continuous irri- tation of the bone. It will then be seen that the pegs in the diaphysis have not changed their relations to one another, but that the pegs in the epiphyses have been respectively separated from the nearest peg in the diaphysis. The excess in length is produced at the position of the connecting cartilage, and by its means ; for if it be excised, the growth of the bone will be cut short. It will not do, however, to absolutely deny the occurrence of interstitial growth in inflamed bones. I have seen, rarely it is true, but I have seen, nevertheless, a little growth in inflamed bones in adults; and Poncet has mentioned a lengthening of fifteen millimetres in the humerus of a syphilitic woman. But this lengthening is so slightly marked that it may be neglected in the majority of cases. Inflamed bones in the adult may acquire greater thickness, by means of the newly formed subperiosteal layers which may be deposited at any age under the influence of irritation of the periosteum. But when once the connecting cartilages are ossified, they cannot increase in length, unless in exceptional cases in which the bone-tissue has changed in structure and in consistence under the influence of slow and chronic inflammation. Inflammation of the periosteum and medulla is progagated to a distance ; and when it attacks the connecting cartilage it excites greater and more pro- lific activity of its cells. But if this transmitted irritation, which I call “ indirect irritation,” is productive in the matter of growth, the same is not true in regard to direct irritation, or irritation acting directfy upon the tissue itself. This kind of irritation, instead of increasing the activity of growth in the bone, and the formation of bone-tissue by the cartilage, produces 1 Traite Experimental et Clinique de la Regeneration des Os, t. i. ch. v. et xii. VOL. VI.—56