928 SCROFULO-TUBERCULOUS AND OTHER STRUCTURAL DISEASES OF BONES. From these facts results the first, and capital indication, to send the patient to a milder and more sunny climate, if possible ; and, in any case, to place him in an airy, warm, and wholesome dwelling. The sea-shore, in a warm climate, or during the warm season, is of great utility, from the vital exci- tation which it produces by means of the saline emanations, and by the motion and purity of the sea-air. Sea-baths, generally so justly recommended for their stimulating action, ought not, however, to be prescribed without caution ; for impressionable patients, and those who have confirmed pulmonary tuberculous lesions, receive from sea-baths and from the air of the sea a sort of impetus which hastens the course of the phthisis. The sea should not be recom- mended to persons with pronounced pulmonary tuberculosis. Life in the country, in a warm region free from winds and from fog, will be more useful to them. With the exceptions just mentioned, the sea-shore and short sea-baths are of great service in the affections of the bones which we are studying. No one can question the advantages which have been derived, for example, from the establishments of Berk-sur-mer, in France; of Margate, in England, etc., for children affected with tuberculous surgical affections. If there is a humanitarian wish to he expressed, it is that the hospital administrations of large cites should erect at the sea-shore homes for this interesting class of patients, and that in future they should build hospitals for children outside of the cities, in extensive grounds, well planted, and protected against cold winds, realizing all the conditions required by hygiene and needed for com- fort. When it is impossible to ask from the sea its vivifying influence, sea-baths may be replaced by artificial salt-baths, and better still, by natural saline mineral waters, like those of Saline and Uriage. Good results may be secured from the effects of mixed baths, composed of sea-salt and of sulphate of potassium. When the use of baths is contraindicated by the weather, or for various reasons, general frictions of the body with different stimulating liquids may be employed. Baths, frictions, fresh air, sunlight, saline emana- tions, have for their object to whip up, as it were, the whole economy, by excitation of the skin and of the respiratory mucous membrane, so as to quicken the functional activity of the languishing organs, and thus to sub- stitute an active and productive life for a languid and sterile one. But if, in order to obtain greater speed in a locomotive, it is necessary to burn more fuel, it is also necessary to have richer food for an organism the renovation of which is desired. Feeding sometimes brings about astonishing metamorphoses, even in hospitals. Poor wretches, who have previously had only insufficient and unwholesome nourishment, finding there wholesome and abundant food, with a good warm bed, become transformed in a little while, gaining flesh and color. It is well to supplement food with a generous supply of good wine. Cod-liver oil, iodine, the protiodide of iron, arsenicals, the different prepa- rations of phosphate of lime, etc., are the tonic medicines to which recourse must be had, after improvement of' the diet and amelioration of the hygienic surroundings. But, I repeat, fresh air, sunshine, good food, and sea-baths generally do more for children affected with scrofulo-tuberculous osteopathies than all the remedies which can be lavished upon them in a hospital. Bonnet’s splints and invalid-carriages make it possible to extend the advan- tages of air and sunlight to patients whose bone-disease prevents them from walking. As to internal remedies (creasote, phenic acid, salicylic acid, sulphate of quinine, bromine-water, oxygenated water, etc.) which have for their object the extinction of the tuberculous virus in all the tissues, its sterilization or