391 TUBERCLE OF THE PROSTATE. to be done but to palliate with anodynes, and sustain with nourishment. I am not aware that excision of the prostate has ever been practised, nor is it a proceeding to be advocated. A case in which an attempt was made to remove a sarcomatous growth of the prostate by perineal incision, is recorded by Mr. Spanton.1 The previous symptoms had been chiefly those of obstruction to the rectum upon which the growth pressed so as to flatten it. This occasioned distension above, and an incessant but ineffectual desire to evacuate a stool. It was found impossible to remove more of the tumor than that in contact with the rectum, as it extended behind the pubis. The proceeding was attended with con- siderable hemorrhage, and the patient died on the following day. An autopsy showed that the tumor so overlapped the bladder, behind and above the pubis, as to conceal it. Tubercle of the Prostate. In the course of urinary tuberculosis the prostate may become involved, but it is rare to find the disease limited to the gland. In the more advanced illustrations of the affection, the deposit is found in the kidneys, testicles, and vesiculee seminales, as well as in the lungs. The tubercles take the form of small gray points scattered throughout the glandular tissue; these may coalesce, and ultimately form abscesses. In this way the whole of the pros- tate has, in some instances, been converted into a pultaceous mass of pus and tubercle, which may be discharged either through the urethra or through the rectum. As tubercle of the prostate almost invariably exists in connection with a similar deposit in some other organ, such as the kidney or testicle, where the diagnosis can be made with greater certainty, the occurrence under such circumstances of vesical irritability which can only be referred to the neck of the bladder, must be regarded as an indication that the prostate is probably becoming involved. It is almost impossible to indicate any special symptoms which may be said to determine the existence of tubercle at an early stage. So frequently does tuberculosis of the prostate coexist when the testicle is simi- larly affected, that in all cases of the latter the prostate should be carefully explored by rectal examination, when distinct points where tubercular deposit has taken place, may be detected. It has been remarked by Fleming,2 that these cases are usually referable to protracted gonorrhoea occurring in stru- mous subjects, in whom that disease is often very uncertain and slow in its progress. The treatment of this affection resolves itself into the employment of gene- ral measures directed towards arresting the progressive development of the tubercular state. These include the administration of cod-liver oil, steel, and a nutritious diet. Tepid sea-water bathing is often of considerable ser- vice in this class of affections. Locally, anodyne applications to relieve pain and vesical irritability will be necessary. As the symptoms sometimes simulate those of vesical calculus, the intro- duction of a sound into the bladder may be required for the purpose of estab- lishing a diagnosis. As a rule, however, instrumental interference with the urethra in these cases should be avoided. Tubercular abscesses of the pros- tate have sometimes opened into the rectum. Should fluctuation be detected from the bowel, it would be better to puncture in this position rather than permit the matter to burrow in other directions. In cases where fluctuation is not detected by the finger in the rectum, should an abscess form, it will 1 Lancet, June 24, 1882. 2 Injuries and Diseases of the Genito-Urinary Organs. Dublin, 1877.