183 STONE IN TI1E BLADDER. Stone in the Bladder. The frequency of stone in the bladder, the serious discomfort which it occa- sions, and the brilliancy and success of the various operations for its removal, have made it a subject of great interest to surgeons. The ingenuity of man has taxed itself to devise cunning instruments, monuments of mechanical skill, and to plan out bold operations for the relief of this painful disorder, and probably no field in medicine or surgery has furnished a fairer harvest for the quack. Position of Stone in the Bladder.—A small calculus in a healthy blad- der lies at the neck of the organ when the latter is empty, and, during dis- tention, rests upon that portion of the bladder which is most dependent. The stone is freely movable, and consequently shifts its position with the varying posture of the patient. This change of position helps to explain the symptoms, relief during repose, aggravation by exercise when the foreign body is rubbed against the bladder’s most sensitive portion, its neck. "When the prostate is much enlarged, the stone habitually rests in the has- fond behind it, and does not, in any ordinary position of the patient, ever touch the neck of the bladder except when the bladder is empty. In this way an old man may carry a small stone without suffering any of the cus- tomary symptoms. Such stones are frequently first detected by accident. "When the bladder is sacculated, a stone may lodge in one of the pockets. Calculi, indeed, may form in these pockets and never leave them, thus becoming encysted stones, or the stone may lie partly within and partly without a pouch. A bilobed bladder may contain a stone1 which may occupy the cavities alternately. A vesical tumor may fix the position of a stone. A calculus may form and remain in an abscess-cavitv in the walls of the bladder. A stone may be adherent to an ulcerated surface, or to a tumor, or may be fixed by partial impaction in the orifice of a ureter, or of the urethra. A stone may sometimes be retained by contraction of certain parts of the bladder-walls about it, thus being held behind the pubis or at the fundus, there being no true adhesion. Encysted Calculus.—This variety generally commences as a sacculated stone, which,growing by concentric accretions,distends its pouch to its utmost capac- ity, the stone becoming larger than the mouth of the pouch. Such a stone may become hour-glass-shaped, for, after it has completely filled the pouch, it grows by deposit upon the exposed part presenting toward the bladder, and thus growing becomes in shape like a dumb-bell with a narrow neck. Such stones cause obscure symptoms and are often difficult to remove. When a stone in the bladder is very large, its position does not change. It becomes oval, and perhaps sends prolongations into the ureters and urethra; the thickened and inflamed wall of the bladder embraces it upon all sides and the urine trickles away, there being perhaps true incontinence. Such stones may be easily felt by the finger in the rectum. Adherent Calculus.—The possibility of the adhesion of a calculus to the vesical mucous membrane has been denied. It is certainly not as common as might be inferred from reading reports of cases of lithotomy, for it is not very exceptional to read that the stone adhered to the bladder and was ex- tracted with considerable difficulty. Undoubtedly this hypothesis is frequently suggested by difficulty in extract- ing a stone, especially if a rough side of the stone happens to come out cov- 1 Case of Scarenzio, quoted by Gross (op. cit., p. 190).