318 LITHOTRITY. Fig. 1279. France, unwilling that other countries should outstrip her in the perfection - of instruments for crushing stone, in which, for so many years she excelled, has not been idle. Civiale’s, Ifeurteloup’s, and Leroy d’Etiolles’s instruments have been variously modified in handle, shaft, and blade. But more recently Reliquet lias furnished a lithotrite which has certain advantages over other instruments, especially in reducing calculi to fragments sufficiently small to enable them to pass through the evacuating canula. The advantages of Reliquet’s instrument are chiefly these: (1) the oblique disposition of the teeth on the margin of the female blade prevents the calculus from slipping towards the point when the teeth of the male blade cut and crush it. (2) The teeth of the male blade act singly upon the imprisoned calculus, and drive it against the transverse teeth in the female blade, between which it is reduced to the desired size, the fragments falling behind and out of the way of the male blade. Hence (3) the disadvantages of over-filling the female blade, and of necessitating the frequent withdrawal of the litho- trite to clean it, as in flat instruments, are avoided. But there is also a drawback to the general use of the instrument. When it is closed, the teeth of the male blade project beyond the female, below, and the serrated margins of the female blade, above, are free. In its closed condition the instrument can neither be introduced nor withdrawn ; the blades must be partially open, and by a piece of mechanism this action is limited. Operators familiar with other 1 ithotrites, which are always firmly closed prior to intro- duction or withdrawal, are apt to be unprepared for this novelty. A small blade, less deep, and one which would occupy less space when closed, would answer every purpose. In spite of this defect, however, much of what its enthusiastic inventor claims for it must he admitted, and especially the advantages of a flat instrument without the inconveniences of clogging, enabling the lithotrite to be manipulated for any length of time within the bladder without the risk of difficulty in its removal. It can be used with the pressure of the palm of the hand, or with the screw as in ordinary instruments, or, in cases of hard stones, with percussion by a hammer. Duration of Operation.—This also has been greatly modified. French surgeons place the utmost limit of duration, beyond which it is imprudent to go, at twelve minutes. “ Apres cinq, huit, dix, ou tout au plus douze minutes, ll convient de terminer la seance,” says Velpeau. Other operators since then have greatly increased the duration of the operation. I have many times manipulated the lithotrite for an hour, and Bigelow in this country, and many operators in Europe, have advocated much more pro- longed sittings, but, as I shall have occasion to point out, the risk to the patient is not diminished thereby. Rapid Lithotrity.—It was, as it were, but a swing of the pendulum be- tween permitting, in all cases, the fragments of a calculus to find their way