444 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE URETHRA. the pocket, and then resumes its former position ; from whence arise the alternations of dysuria and easy micturition which are observed in such cases. In adults, the walls of the canal likewise are capable of distension above the obstacle, but rarely to the extent of forming a true pocket. On the part of the calculus, a series of modifications are observed which recall quite exactly what happens to vesical calculi. In consequence of the precipitation of the salts of the urine, and of the formation round the original calculus of more and more numerous concentric layers, the latter increases in size and may attain the dimensions of an egg.' This great increase in the size of the foreign body, however, rarely causes complete retention. Most frequently' there exists only marked, very marked, straining in micturition ; the increase in volume, taking place very slowly, gives the urethra time to dilate; more- over, there always forms, either on the lower surface or on both surfaces at once, a sort of canal or groove which permits a flow of urine. The increase of calculi arrested in the urethra does not take place as regularly as that of vesical calculi. In the penile portion, where the dilata- bility of the walls is least marked, the increase occurs chiefly in length and mostly at the posterior part, as is shown by the position of the primitive nucleus, which is always found at the anterior extremity of the calculus, when this is divided in its principal axis. (Fig. 1318.) The nucleus, small, Fig. 1318.. Calculus lodged iu tlie fossa navicularis for thirteen months. (After Voillemier.) hard, ovoid, is formed of uric acid ; the rest of the calculus is made up of calcareous salts. In some cases the urethra, dilated for a space of from eight to twelve centimetres, contains several calculi placed end to end, the whole -of which represent a long ovoid, ending in points at the two extremities. (Fig. 1319.) Are these a number of calculi coming from the bladder, or frag- ments of one and the same calculus? The latter view appears to be the true one, when account is taken of the existence of a single nucleus at the anterior extremity, and of the exact fitting of the facets of each of the fragments with those of the fragment following it. It may happen, however, and chiefly after an operation of lithotrity, that a number of fragments, coming from the bladder, are arrested in the urethra ; but then they are small, more or less numerous, without any nucleus, and lodged promiscuously in a dilatation of the canal. Tulpius reports a good ■example of this observed in a child, whose urethra he incised in its middle portion and removed from it twenty-five calculi. In the membranous and prostatic portions, which are much more dilatable than the penile portion, the development of calculi takes place with more facility. When the calculus is single, it forms a mass, most frequently the size of a nut, irregularly rounded, a little longer than it is broad, concave on its lower surface, slightly convex on its upper surface and often traversed by a groove running from behind forwards, presenting on section a nucleus 1 J. L. Petit, (Euvres Postliumes, tome iii. p. 13.