SCROFULO-TUBEKCULOUS AFFECTIONS OF BONES. 919 of the organs—a circumstance altogether in favor of the tuberculous nature of the process. Tuberculosis of the phalanges, and of the metacarpal and metatarsal bones, assumes, on account of its situation, an altogether peculiar form, which is suggested by the name spina ventosa which has been applied to it. Spina calls up the idea of the pain which is compared to that of the pricking of a thorn; ventosa indicates the blown-up appearance of the bone. The pain is sometimes absent, the swelling is constant. The fusiform swelling of the bone is due, either to the collection of pus under the periosteal sheath which is detached in its whole length, and attached to the bones by its two ends alone, or to subperiosteal bone-formations, the bulging shape of which is due to the same conditions of the periosteum. One of the most curious peculiarities of this tuberculous osteitis, is that, while new layers of bone are being laid down on the periphery, the old bone empties itself from within outwards, until it hollows out for itself a large cavity, full of fungous and gelatinous marrow, crowded with tuberculous elements. There may he also some points of sup- purating periostitis in this bony form of spina ventosa, and it is at these points, where the periosteum is destroyed, that sequestra are seen to form, and afterwards perforations, leading to the central canal. Ossifying or sup- purating periostitis outside, rarefying osteitis inside, such is the double morbid action which characterizes ordinary spina ventosa. Islets of the spongy tissue, and even of the diaphysis, may become necrosed, either by suppurative destruction of the periosteum, or from the more rapid invasion of the micro-organisms at certain points, or from both causes at once. .Some- times extensive sequestra are formed. Usually the joints are not affected; and usually, also, the shell of periostosis finally becomes perforated, when abscesses soon form openings in the skin which give vent to pus and to fungous masses coming from the centre of the bone, and which permit its exploration. Spina ventosa is most frequently met with in the hand, espe- cially in the middle finger (the first phalanx) and its metacarpal bone. In the foot, the first metatarsal bone is oftenest attacked. Parrot and Volk- mann, in exceptional cases, have seen spina ventosa in the ulna. It is also exceptional to see this affection of the bones in adults and old persons, but I have, in one week, seen two exceptions of the sort. One in a woman sixty years old, who had an ulcerated spina ventosa of the first phalanx of the right ring-finger, so fungating that I had to amputate it; the other in a man thirty years old, who has a spina ven- tosa of the first phalanx of the right middle finger, with slight involvement of the joint between the first phalanx and the second, and a painful point on the anterior surface, where spontaneous opening is likely to occur. It is to be remarked that in both cases the course has been slow; for, in both patients, the spina ventosa has lasted almost two years. M. Lannelongue refers to tuberculous gummata (Bris- saud and Josias) on the arms of chil- dren affected with spina ventosa. It is reasonable to suppose that dissemination of the tuberculous material, the micro-organisms, has taken place by way of the lymphatics. Tuberculous Fig. 1451. Tuberculous adenitis following an osteo-arthritis of the same nature.