INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE (ESOPHAGUS. 10 the spinal cord1 has been discovered, after death, to have been due to penetra- tion by a fish-bone through the intervertebral substance. Symptoms.—The immediate symptoms, varying with the nature of the foreign substance, the position it occupies, and the condition of the oesopha- gus, are insignificant in some instances, and markedly characteristic in others. Sometimes large coins, bones, and other bodies remain impacted in such a position as to give no evidence of their presence, until sudden death by hemorrhage leads to a post-mortem examination, which reveals erosion into the aorta2 or some other important vessel.3 The immediate symptoms comprise in their totality: dyspnoea, sometimes suffocative; dys- phagia or aphagia; dysphonia or aphonia; pain in the neck, thorax, or stomach; nervousness, dread of death from the accident; spasm of the oesophagus, of the air-passages, or even convulsive or tetanic spasm of the lower jaw and of the extremities; retching, vomiting, expectoration, and hemorrhage. The functional symptoms usually cease upon spontaneous ex- pulsion of the foreign body, or upon its passage into the stomach, or upon its impaction in some portion of the gullet. Subsequent to the sensory and spasmodic symptoms, others are developed, in cases of long or permanent retention, indicative of inflammation, suppuration, ulceration, and perforation of the oesophagus. Finally, there may be insomnia, innutrition, pyrexia, marasmus, hectic, and death by asthenia. Certain nervous symptoms some- times remain after expulsion of the foreign body, the result of its previous pressure, and torment the patient with fears that another foreign body is lodged in the oesophagus. A small, smooth substance may produce only a vague sense of discomfort, indicative of its detention in some defined or undefined portion of the oesopha- gus. The sensations of patients are not reliable guides to the locations of foreign bodies. A large body provokes retching, and is often ejected thereby, especially when of some regular form. Spiculated bodies become sometimes nailed, as it were, to the mucous membrane by the act of vomiting. A pin, tack, knife-blade, or the like, will be apt to give rise to sensations of pricking, and sometimes will occasion hemorrhage. Large bodies present a mechani- cal obstacle to the passage of solid food, and sharp ones produce pain in de- glutition. When respiration is mechanically impeded, the dyspnoea is usually greater in inspiration ; when disturbed by nervous influence, the dyspnoea is usually equally manifested in expiration also. Diagnosis.—The first element in the diagnosis is the history preceding the immediate symptoms. This may be wanting in children, lunatics, and determined suicides. Inspection through the mouth is rarely of service, even though an cesophagoscope be employed. With the aid of cesophagoscopy, however, a small, flat piece of bone has been discovered two inches below the cricoid cartilage, on the anterior wall of the oesophagus.4 External palpation sometimes detects an impacted body high up. Large bodies sometimes cause sufficient projection in the left cervical region to attract attention by the deformity which they produce. Stability of position is almost invariable. In cases of fancied bodies in the oesophagus, the alleged position of the obstacle is usually varied from time to time. Digital exploration through the mouth, if the finger be long enough, is some- times sufficient to detect a foreign body lodged high up. Care must be taken not to mistake the tense edge of the pharyngo-epiglottic ligament for the edge of a fish-bone, needle, pin, or other substance. Palpation with a 1 Mackenzie, op. cit., vol. ii. p. 192. 2 Begin, case cited by Ponlet (op. cit., vol. i. p. 75). 3 Erichsen, Science and Art of Surgery, vol. i. p 189. 4 Mackenzie, op. cit., vol. ii. p. 193.