APPENDIX. 1168 The rectal speculum was in use in the time of Hippocrates, as I have already mentioned, and it is probable that the vaginal speculum also was then in use; however, we find no direct mention of it until that of Archigenes, of the first century, as preserved in the writings of Aetius, of the fifth. Archigenes does not speak of it as a newly invented instrument. In 1818 a beautiful and artistic bronze instrument, consisting of three branches or valves, with two handles and a central screw, an ancient speculum matricis, was dug out of the ruins of Pompeii, and is preserved, with other surgical instruments found at the same place, in the museum at Naples.1 It is a remarkable fact that the use of the vaginal or uterine speculum passed into disuse for a period of not less than a thousand years, say from the seventh to the eighteenth century. This was probably due to the influ- ence of the Arabian school, which gained its supremacy at the time that the Moslem conquerors took possession of Alexandria, and burned its famous library by command of Omar, in A. D. 642. It was against the Mahom- medan creed that women, even in their suffering, should undergo personal examination except by one of their own sex. There are many other things mentioned in the compilation of Aetius which relate to uterine surgery: the exploring sound ; the use of sponge-tents for dilating the os uteri, with threads attached for their ready removal; more than a hundred formulas for medicated pessaries and suppositories; the use of injections, plain and medi- cated, of hip-baths, the douche, and fumes and vapors through tubes; the treatment of ulcers of the os, of pedunculated uterine tumors, etc. I will merely mention that he devotes one hundred and twelve chapters, long and short, to the diseases of women: thirty-seven to pregnancy, parturition, and suckling; six to various ulcerations of the womb; three to abcesses; two to displacements; two to obstructed and imperforate uterus ; seven to growths occurring in the vagina and uterus; and eighteen to menstruation and its disorders. A careful study of ancient obstetrics, and particularly of ancient gynaecology, will tend to diminish our admiration of the pretentious claims of the modern revivers of these departments of operative surgery. As an evidence of the progress which had been made in the careful dis- crimination of diseases from the era of Hippocrates, and even after the time of Galen, to the period in which Aetius flourished, we find, upon a compari- son of Galen with Aetius, that the catalogue of human maladies had been augmented fully one-third. As an example, Celsus describes thirteen diseases of j;he eye which require surgical treatment, while no less than thirty are enumerated by Aetius, and in one of these he describes three distinct modes of operating. Space will not admit of any further examination of the valuable compila- tions of Aetius, so with the mere mention that he is the earliest writer who speaks of the supposed medicinal virtues of the magnet, I will lay him aside. “ They say that those who are afflicted with gout in their hands or feet, or with convulsions, are relieved by holding a magnet in their hands.” The last of the Greek medical and surgical writers with whom we are interested is Paul, surnamed kEgineta, from the fact of his being a native of the isle of kEgina. He flourished in the latter part of the sixth and first half of the seventh century. Paul was unquestionably a general practitioner, but especially celebrated as a surgeon and obstetrician. It is said that the Ara- bian midwives, who regarded him as an oracle among the women, sent great distances for him in consultation in difficult cases. The Arabian writers 1 For descriptions and figures of those instruments, now over eighteen centuries old, see Brit, and For. Med-Chir. Rev., vol. xxxvi. p. 178. Loud., July, 1865 ; Medico-Chir. Trans., vol. xxxiii. p. 261. Lond. 1850.