755 STERILITY. embryo depends so essentially upon the normal condition of the deciduous membranes, as recently clearly pointed out by Martin-Saint-Ange,1 that it is easy to understand that catarrhal or syphilitic inflammation of the endome- trium will often prevent or arrest’gestation. Fibroid tumors cause sterility by the uterine catarrh or the hemorrhages which they produce; about one-half of women suffering from these growths are sterile, and those who bear children have only one-half the normal fecundity. Gfriinewaldt’s statistics show the importance of inflammation of the various tissues of the uterus in the causa- tion of sterility. Of 496 sterile women, 262 suffered from inflammatory pro- cesses of the endometrium, the mesometrium, or the parametrium. Certain uterine displacements interfere with the evolution of gestation, as retroversion or retroflexion of the uterus, especially if incarceration occur. Excessive sexual indulgence is a frequent cause of abortion, especially in the newly-married. Dr. Noeggerath2 regards latent gonorrhoea as the most fre- quent cause of female sterility, and says that ninety per cent, of sterile women are married to husbands who have suffered from gonorrhoea either previous to, or during, their married life. According to Duncan,3 the chief and best demonstrated sources of, or attendants on, sterility in women, are juvenility or prematurity, elderliness or post-maturity, dysmenorrhoea, and disorders of sexual appetite and pleasure. While some facts indicate that desire for and pleasure in coition may contribute to fecundation, there are other facts which prove these sensations to be unnecessary. Thus women have conceived although utterly indifferent to or disgusted with sexual intercourse, and even when having the greatest antipathy to their husbands ; and others when anaesthetized, stupefied by alcohol or narcotics, or overwhelmed by fear and compelled to yield to brutal force ; again, mechanical impregna- tion cannot be supposed to evoke any pleasurable sensation. It seldom hap- pens, especially in acquired sterility, that the disorder depends upon a single cause; thus there may be uterine or pelvic inflammation associated with uterine displacement. Treatment.—Of course where there is impotentia coeundi the problem as to treatment is usually simple. But in the larger number of sterile women no such difficulty is present to explain the failure to reproduce. Being quite sure that the wife is in fault, the first step is to ascertain the cause or causes, and then seek to remove them. If the uterus be undeveloped, the most im- portant remedy will be found in electricity, and especially in the use of Simpson’s galvanic stem pessary, or of some of its modifications; the instru- ment as usually found in the shops is too long to be safely worn in a pubes- cent uterus, and therefore a shorter one should be procured, adapted to the individual case. Where the sterility arises from excessive coition, this should be restricted to once in ten days or two weeks, or it may be well to require entire absti- nence for a few months. Vaginitis is, if present, to be appropriately treated. If the acidity of the vaginal secretion be marked, the use of an alkaline injection is advised, this not only neutralizing the acid, but increasing the activity of the spermatozoids. The best mixture, according to Kolliker, to give this greater activity, is composed of one part of potassa or soda, one hundred and fifty of sugar, and one thousand of water. Charrier used as a vaginal injection, for two women who had been four years sterile, a mixture containing the white of an egg, fifty-nine grammes of sodium phosphate, and a thousand grammes of water; in six weeks each patient had become pregnant. 1 Iconographie Pathologiqne de l’CEuf Humain Feconde. Paris, 1884. 2 Transactions of American Gynaecological Society, vol. i. 3 Sterility in Women, 1884.