198 URINARY CALCULUS. stance, but since Pliny many investigators have given time and attention to a study of the medical treatment of stone. The laity almost uniformly believe that stone may he dissolved by medicine, and tons of pills and pow- ders, rivers of supposed solvents, and oceans of mineral waters have been consumed by the victims either of stone or of their imaginations, in the delusive hope of cure. Aretreus, in the second century, introduced quick- lime as a stone-solvent, and Paulus FEgineta, in the seventh century, mentions that some persons thought well of goat’s blood. Avicenna (tenth century) was quite convinced of the efficacy of the impure carbonate of potassium, but his prescriptions were nauseating compounds containing a number of absurd ingredients in addition to the usual alkali, and his methods did not retain favor with the profession. Later authors, from Basilius in the fifteenth century to Mrs. Joanna Stephens in the eighteenth, used the same alkalies—potassa, lime, and soda—in simple combinations with vegetable diuretics, given by the mouth or injected into the bladder. Many contented themselves with such remedies as the infu- sions and decoctions of various plants, roots, bulbs, or fruits, carbonic acid in water, distilled water, goat’s blood, etc. The names of Blaekrie, Chittiek, DarCi, Morand, and Girardi become familiar in looking over the literature of this subject. In France the first sign of intelligent direction of the solvent treatment appeared when Fourcroy and Vauquelin did what they believed to be wise in using dilute acids in the treatment pf alkaline stones, and alkalies in that of acid concretions. No remedy reputed to be a stone solvent has had such renown as that of Joanna Stephens. Physicians and patients in England became generally convinced of its value, and the English Parliament, after a long inquiry, under full conviction of its worth finally, in 1739, bought the secret of Mrs. Stephens at the modest figure of £5000. The medicines so purchased proved to be a powder of calcined egg-shells and snails; a decoction of herbs with soap, ashes of swine’s cresses, and honey ; and a pill of calcined snails, wild-carrot seeds, burdock seeds, ashen keys, hips and haws—all burnt to blackness—soap, and honey.1 These com- pounds apparently effected wonders as long as they were, secret remedies, but, their composition once disclosed, they soon lost their charm and fell into disuse. So celebrated did these remedies become that Morand was appointed by the French Academy to go to London to look into the merits of the Cheselden cutting operation, and the cures by the Stephens remedies. On his return he reported2 that the remedy had been tried upon forty patients, in twenty- two of whom stone had been touched with a sound. Five of the latter were finally cut, and their stones showed no evidence of erosion. Morand found that some patients were soothed, and that some passed small calculi, worm- eaten in appearance, after taking the remedies; therefore he thought favor- ably of the medicines, although none of the patients reported as cured would allow themselves to be sounded again. But the most pungent criticism upon the remedies of Mrs. Stephens, is that each of the four patients whose cures were vouched for by the trustees appointed by the Government, and who had refused to allow themselves to be sounded, died with stone in the bladder, as proved by post-mortem examina- tion in each case.3 1 Gentleman’s Magazine, June, 1739, vol. ix. p. 291. 2 Mem. de l’Academie des Sciences, Annees 1740-41. 3 Alston’s Lectures on the Materia Medica, vol. i. p. 268. London, 1773.