626 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. * Trans. Path. Soc. Lond., vol. iv. p. 180. Op. cit., vol. ii. p. 196. mass by their opposed walls, and by a small quantity of intermediate, tough, and apparently fibrous tissue. They are for the most part oval in shape, and their size varies from that of a millet-seed to that of a pigeon’s egg; they are not separable by dissection from the surrounding substance. In some cases the cysts are simple, with smooth walls lined by tesselated epithelium. In others they contain lobulated intra-cystic growths, of a cellular structure, covered by cylindrical epithelium, with or without cilia. The fluid in the cysts varies ; in some it is clear, in others bloody and glairy ; at times, instead of being mucous or serous, the contents may resemble the caseous material of dermoid cysts. Microscopic deposits of cartilage may be scattered through- out the growth, or transparent nodules, which may grow and fill up the cysts to a great extent, may be seen with the naked eye disseminated through- out the tumor. The cystic growth is separated by a capsule from the gland- tissue, which is spread out unchanged on the surface of the cysts; these may in some instances be removed by operation, and the secreting structure left. Professor Humphry recommends this proceeding, if by any chance only one testicle be present. The epididymis, free from disease, is attenuated and spread out, and finally the distinction between it and the tumor is lost. Beside sarcomatous or cartilaginous tissue, new formations of striped mus- cular fibres may be found. Mr. Curling, who has investigated the subject with great care, states that the cysts are formed by a dilatation of the ducts of the rete testis. The dila- tation may be at the end of a tube, or may spring from its side, or the tube may be uniformly dilated. ISTo spermatozoa are found in the cysts. The cystic change is due to a morbid condition of the ducts, the rete testis being the part attacked, and not the tubuli seminiferi or the ducts of the epididy- mis. According to Rindfleisch,1 an analogy exists between this disease and the “adenoid sarcoma” of the mammary gland described by Billroth. The proliferation is concentrated in the sub-epithelial connective tissue, that is, it presents the appearance of an enormous thickening and round-celled de- generation of the tunica propria. This is complicated on the one hand by dilatation of the ducts, on the other by pliyllodic proliferation in their interior. Yellowish-brown globular concretions made up of horny epithelium, which are peculiar to the generative glands, are suspended in the fluid contents of the cysts. Ivlebs considers cystoma of the testis to be an advanced stage of adenoma, with proliferation of the seminal tubules, the tunica propria, and loose connective tissue. Forster describes the cysts as being due to an en- largement of the seminiferous canals, the epithelial lining of which becomes detached, and, filling the cavity of the cysts, suffers degeneration into a homogeneous and mucous liquid ; at times the contents are caseous. According to Trelat, a new product, composed of normal fibrous tissue and perforated by different-sized cavities, forms, gradually invading the tes- ticle and displacing its substance towards the tunica albuginea. M. Yepveu has traced the process of enlargement of the seminiferous tubes, and has demonstrated the presence of pearly globules of horny epithelium. Many tumors of different histological structure have been included under the term cystic sarcoma, and M. Malassez has examined cysts which presented no likeness to the seminiferous tubes; whence he concludes that the epithe- lium is a new formation as well as the cysts, and he suggests the name of myxoid epithelioma. A diseased testicle removed by Sir Henry Thompson2 was found to be a combination of cholesteatoma, enchondroma, and encepha- loma, with cysts, within the dilated and thinned tunica albuginea. Some of the tubes between the cysts were unaltered, while others were dilated and