OVARIAN AND UTERINE TUMORS. 800 the gastric and mammary signs of pregnancy commonly exist. Physical examination shows the womb enlarged and soft, often displaced laterally, and a bulging tumor in one iliac fossa. This tumor is insensitive and soft, with a vague sense of fluctuation, occasionally yielding ballottement, almost immov- able, easily separable from the uterus, and sometimes, but rarely, behind it, when the womb is pushed upward and forward by the new mass, instead of to one side. If an opportunity be presented for repeated examinations, the lateral mass will be found to increase rapidly in size, while all the foregoing symp- toms are aggravated. When these signs are concurrent, the conclusion to which they point will be obvious to every reflective observer; in actual prac- tice this rarely happens, but enough evidence is generally obtained to reach a correct diagnosis without much difficulty. The researches, in this field, of Parry, of Stephen Rogers, and more recently of Gaillard Thomas, have placed the American profession under lasting obligation to those writers. In ventral or abdominal 'pregnancy the differentiation is, perhaps, more difficult; very much so, and almost impossible, in its early stages. But this is unimportant, as such cases are apt to be seen only when the foetus is well advanced in development. Here the outlines of the child can often be made out, and its spontaneous movements observed, through the abdominal wall, while the uterus is found to be softened and empty, and the patient’s history is one of the concurrent symptoms of pregnancy. The sense of fluctuation is imperfect or wanting; never clear and unmistakable, as in well-marked cystoma. When the child is dead, and has been carried in its foetal envelope for a long time, perhaps for years, no indication may be given of the true nature of the case, although the irregular outline of the foetal mass, and occasional indications of septi- ciemia, may here aid in the diagnosis. When a suspicion of ventral preg- nancy exists, explorative incision should not be lightly undertaken, and the constitutional state of the patient must form the only guide to operative interference. But in cases of commencing hectic, this affords the patient’s only chance of life, and should never be postponed. Besides the differentiation from pregnancy alone, the coincidence of preg- nancy with an ovarian cyst must always be remembered, and its possible existence eliminated. From the fact that the enlarged uterus remains in front of the cyst, and is not affected by changes of position, this is sometimes extremely difficult. Pregnancy may be suspected when the vaginal exami- nation shows the womb to be elevated, with the cervix high up behind the pubic symphysis, obscure fluctuation behind this point, and more abdominal distention than either mass alone seems to account for ; or when the abdomen presents an uneven surface with some history of pregnancy. This applies to the early stages; as pregnancy advances, the usual tests, of course, render diagnosis more easy. The frequency of this complication is sufficiently shown by all writers on ovariotomy. In 1880, Sir Spencer Wells had operated in ten cases of this kind, with only one death; Mr. Tait has published an equal number of cases, all I believe successful; Schroeder, Olshausen, and Hegar, in Germany, Sims, Thomas, Homans, and others in this country, have all met with cases (I have published two from my own practice) in which the diag- nosis was easily made beforehand. The works of Peaslee and Atlee may be consulted with profit for details of earlier cases. 8. Abdominal enlargements from other neoplasms or from structural changes of the abdominal viscera, require, however, by far the gravest consideration in the diagnosis of ovarian cysts. They are, also, the most frequent sources of confusion in this regard ; for, although it has been stated that pregnancy is the most common source of abdominal enlargement in women, the surgeon