GASTRO-ELYXROTOMY OR LAPARO-ELYTROTOMY. I I I Baudelocque operated twice, his first patient being a rachitic dwarf of thirty- nine inches in height, and having a conjugate of one and three-quarter inches. As soon as he had punctured the vagina a violent hemorrhage ensued, forcing him to tampon with sponges, and to deliver by the Caesarean section. The child was lost, and the woman bled from both the vaginal and uterine wounds until she died. His second case was one of eclampsia, with a conjugate of nearly four inches. Fearing hemorrhage, he designed to ligate the internal iliac artery, but the assistant letting fall the peritoneum obscured his view of the needle, and he accidentally pricked the external iliac artery, which obliged him to tie the primitive iliac. He then incised the vagina and turned the foetus, delivering it by the feet. The child was dead, and the mother died in seventy-four hours of septic peritonitis. (4) Process of Prof. Philip S. Physick, of Philadelphia (1824).—This was simply a proposition made to Dr. William E. Horner, the anatomist, and fortunately for Physick’s credit was never put into practice. The plan was to open the abdomen by a transverse incision above the pubes; to strip the peritoneum by dissection from the fundus of the bladder, and expose the uterine cervix where it was not covered by serous membrane; and then to incise the cervix so as to give exit to the foetus. In this operation there was no elytrotomy : it was technically a svbperitoneal laparo-hysterotomy. (5) Process of Sir Charles Bell (1837).—The incision was to be made as directed by Ritgen, and the peritoneum lifted up from the iliac fossa, so as to reach the vagina or uterus; a small incision was then to be made, a finger introduced, and the parts dilated as in the natural process of labor; the mem- branes were to be ruptured and the head allowed to advance, or, if required, the foetus was to be turned and delivered. It is very questionable at this date whether the plan proposed was original, except as to the management of the vaginal opening, which most nearly approaches the vital improvement of Prof. Thomas. (6) Process of Prof T. Gaillard Thomas, of New York (1870).—This opera- tion, laparo-elytrotomy, as it is now generally called, requires for its perform- ance at least four assistants, and better still, five. As it has been performed by five different American operators, I prefer to give the directions which have their collective authority :— Method of Operating.—As preparatory measures, the patient is to have her rectum and bladder well emptied, and her labor is to be so far advanced that the os uteri is either fully dilated or easily dilatable ; the operating room is to be warmed to a temperature of from 75° to 80° Fahr., and it may be carbolized if desirable; the spraying of the patient during the operation is generally considered objectionable. The sponges and instruments, ligatures, etc., to be used, are all to be carbolized, and the abdomen and vagina of the woman may be sponged and irrigated as directed for the antiseptic Caesarean opera- tion. The operator stands on the right of the woman and makes an incision on the right side of her abdomen, parallel with and a little more than an inch above Poupart’s ligament, his chief assistant on the other side of the patient pulling up the skin of her abdomen to render it tehse. The incision is to commence at a point one and three-quarter inches above and to the outside of the spine of the os pubis, and is to be carried in a slightly curved direction to a point one and three-quarter inches above the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium, the wound being from four and a half to five inches long. The muscles being gradually cut through to the peritoneum, all arteries that spurt are secured by haemostatic pincettes, the chief vessel encountered being the superficial epigastric artery. When the peritoneum is reached, it is to be carefully separated from the tissues overlying it to the full length of