1190 APPENDIX. diseased people, that otherwise woidd infect many good and honest persons, seeking with like care to restraine this grievous infection, and yet the number still increaseth. His treatment consisted chiefly of mercurial inunction, carried to the ex- tent of salivation. He also used turpeth mineral, fumigations, caustics, etc. These were the approved remedies of that day, and they have been continued through the past three centuries, almost without change, to the present time. The literature of syphilis, embracing four hundred years, is overwhelmingly voluminous. The progress made in the prevention and cure of the disease has been lamentably small and insignificant. The other treatise of Master Clowes, to which I have referred, and far the more important of the two, was first printed, in small quarto, at London, in 1591, and reprinted in 1596, and in 1637; the two later editions being “newly corrected and augmented,” with alterations of title-pages, etc. The first edition bears the following title: “A proved Practice for all young Chirurgians, concerning Burnings with Gun-powder, and Woundes made with Gun-shot, Sword, Halbard, Pike, Launce, or such other.” The third edition, 1637, which is the only one I possess, has a still more quaint title. “A profitable and necessarie booke of observations, for all those that are burned with the flame of Gun-powder, &c., and also for curing of wounds made with Musket and Caliver shot, and other weapons of warre, commonly used at this day both by Sea and Land, as hereafter shall be declared:” etc. This “booke” contains the histories of many very interesting cases, and affords an admirable view of English surgery in the Elizabethan period. It is well worthy of careful perusal. The only use I can make of it in this place, is to quote Clowes’s description of the mode of performing amputations,, the arrest of hemorrhage, and the method of dressing the stump:—- The manner and order of taking off a mortified and corrupt leg or arme, which com- meth oftentimes, by reason of ivounds made with gunshot, SfC. (Cap. 24.) Sitli as I have said, that oftentimes it happenth, by reason of the evill accidents which follow wounds made with gunshot, &c. That the whole member commeth togangrena, sideratio, or sphacelus, so that we are many times constrained forthwith to make a speedy dispatch, to cut off the member, which shall be done as Gale and others very skilfully have pointed in the whole and sound parts. And if it so fall out that the leg is to be cut off beneath the knee, then let it be distant from the joint fower inches, and three inches above the knee ; and so likewise in the arme, as occasion is offered. These things being observed, then through the assistance of Almightie God, you shall luckily accomplish this w'orke by your good industrie and diligence. But you must be very circumspect and careful of all things, which concerne the methodicall perfection of this worke; that is, you shall have a great regard to the state of his body for evacuation and dieting: And after that his body is well prepared and purged, then the same morning you do attempt to cut off the member, be it leg or arme, let him have some two houres before, some good comfortable caudell, or other broths, according to the discretion of the Physition or Chirurgion, only to corroberate and strengthen his stomache, and in any wise omit not, but that he, or shee, have ministered unto them some good exhorta- tion concerning patience in adversitie, to be made by the minister or preacher. And you shall likewise advertise the friends of the patient, that the worke which you go about is great, and not without danger of death, for that many accidents and evill symp- toms do happen, which in such cases many times do admit no cure; all which being well considered, then ordaine the night before, some good defensative, and let it be ap- plied two or three times about the member. All which being considered, you shall have in readiness a good strong and steady fourme, and set the patient at the very end of it; then shall there bestride the fourme behind, a man that is able to holde him, or hir fast, by both the armes; which done, it the leg must be taken off beneath the knee, let there be also appointed another strong man to bestride the leg, that is to be cut off, and he must hold the member very fast above the place where the incision is to be made, and very steadily, without shaking.