INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE FEMALE GENITALS. 666 examination; if the left side of the pelvis is to be especially examined, then also the left finger is selected, but if the right side, the right huger. Previous to the examination the hands are thoroughly washed with warm water and soap—earbolized or tar soap is preferable—after which it is well to bathe them in an antiseptic solution, such as of corrosive sublimate, one part to two thousand ; the examining finger is then covered with earbolized cosmoline, oil, soap, or some similar substance; if soap be used, not only should the finger be perfectly covered, but some of the soap should fill the space between the nail and the pulp, so as to exclude the lodgment of offen- sive or injurious discharges from the genitals, or from the rectum, should the rectal follow the vaginal touch. The thumb and index finger are extended and stretched apart, while the other fingers are either flexed upon the palm, or half flexed so that they are at a right angle to the index. The hand is now passed under the sheet which covers the patient and her clothing, and is either, according to the practice of many, introduced from above between the thighs which are extended, or, which others prefer, is carried beneath the near limb, both lower limbs being moderately flexed. The advantages of the latter method are the greater free- dom of movement, the less constrained position of the hand, and the relaxation of the abdominal wall that is secured by flexion of the limbs—the last being essential for the abdominal examination which often follows or is associ- ated with the vaginal. The finger should be passed from the perineum to the vulvar opening ; before entering the latter, the condition of the external parts as to sensibility, swelling, secretion, and temperature, may be noted ; if the hymen be present, the thighs ought to be brought near each other, and the greatest gentleness used so as to prevent its rupture. After the finger has been passed a short distance within the vagina, the perineum should, as advised by Emmet, “be gently but firmly depressed for the admission of air, which will open the passage and give sufficient space for examination the surgeon then turns “ the palm of the hand iqypermost, so that the curve of the finger will cor- respond to that of the vagina.” The condition of the vagina as to form, size, temperature, secretion, and sensibility, and as to the presence of fistulae, cica- trices, or new growths, is ascertained ; the position of the uterine neck, nor- mally in a line connecting the ischial spines, is learned, and also its size, form, and length ; next the external os is examined as to form and size, and also as to the condition of its lips. The weight and the mobility of the ute- rus are determined, and the state of the vaginal cul-de-sacs as to depth and size. The elbow being made to sink in the bed, the finger as far as possible examines the anterior, the posterior, and the lateral walls of the womb, ascertaining thus the sensibility, shape, and consistence of the organ. Upon withdrawing the finger, the secretion adhering to it will be observed as to appearance and odor. Rectal Touch.—If this be necessary, it may be made immediately after vaginal touch, and is done without acquainting the patient with the purpose. She still lies upon her back, and the finger, directed to the anus, gently overcomes the resistance of the sphincter, and is directed backward and upward. The neck of the womb is felt when the finger has advanced about an inch from the anal opening ; passing it still farther, a part of the posterior wall of the uterus and of its sides may be felt, as well as the utero- sacral ligaments, but the fundus cannot be reached unless the organ be ret-ro- verted or retroflexed. In those rare cases in which it may be considered justifiable or necessary to pass the entire hand into the rectum, as first prac- tised by Simon, the patient must be anaesthetized. Two fingers are first introduced, and the anal orifice dilated until three, then four, and finally five,