ORTHOPAEDIC SURGERY. 1044 liability to tlie onset of various convulsive affections, of which laryngismus stridulus is said to be peculiar to this affection. The bones of the cranium de- velop slowly, and the fontanelles are late in closing; the skull is prominent at the sides ; and the forehead bulges over the face, which is small and shrunken. The thorax is often flattened from side to side in its upper two-thirds, the sternum projecting anteriorly, whilst the lower ribs are expanded; the abdo- men is much enlarged, especially below, and the lumbar spine is curved for- wards. It is difficult to define exactly the defective conditions which constitute rickets; all the above are general symptoms which, with the exception of the enlargement of the extremities of the long bones, may or may not accom- pany the disease ; in regard to the structural changes also, in the different tissues, there is no marked characteristic to be pointed out, except that present in the extremities of the long bones; there the proliferating cartilage is in- creased in breadth, and the cells are irregularly distributed instead of being placed in columns. The period at which rickets is developed is usually between the ages of six and eighteen months, though it may commence at either an earlier or a later period ; some authorities state that it exists as a congenital affection, but this assertion requires further investigation; curvature of the bones of the leg undoubtedly occurs before birth, but it does not necessarily follow that such curvature depends upon congenital rickets. The above description of rickets is merely introductory to the subject with which this article is directly concerned—curvature of the bones; there are many further points of interest connected with the disease, which have been fully considered in a previous volume.1 Rachitic curvature of the bones most commonly affects the tibia and fibula, and commences at the period at which the child first begins to walk; it arises from the bone-tissue being deficient in earthy matter, which renders it soft and liable to bend. The difference in the proportion of the organic and inorganic constituents of rachitic bone from that which occurs in the healthy state, has been variously given ; no doubt it depends upon the condition of disease, the deficiency of the earthy parts fluctuating in amount according to' the severity of the affection. The tibia and fibula are usually bent outwards, the most prominent part of the curves being a little below the junction of the middle and lower thirds of the bones; as the deformity increases, a for- ward curve of each bone is added to that already existing. The outward curvature of the leg gives the ungainly appearance commonly known as bow-leg, whilst the anterior curve causes the heel to appear abnormally prominent; combined with this distortion there is nearly always present rachitic valgus of the foot. The femur also is not unfrequently bent, the curve being formed in the upper two thirds of the bone, in a direction for- wards and outwards. The gait of a child thus affected is very awkward : in order to get as wide a base of support as possible, the legs are straddled apart; to accommodate for the forward curve of the bones, the pelvis is somewhat tilted ; and to compensate again for this, the upper part of the body is thrown backwards, and a condition of lordosis may become established in the lum- bar region of the spine. A rickety infant not sufficiently strong to walk, but able to crawl about on his hands and knees, will develop curvature of the bones of the upper extremity; those of the forearm are chiefly affected, the curves of the bones being directed outwards. In the treatment of rickets the point of first importance is to combat the dyscrasia: a suitable diet must be ordered, and the healthy action of the di- gestive organs restored; warm clothing and pure air must also be obtained for 1 See Vol. I., page 251, supra.