INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE PENIS. 533 especially smallpox—poisoning by ergot of rye, and erysipelas. Among the local causes may be mentioned phimosis, paraphimosis, balano-posthitis, in- tiammation of the penis, wounds, strangulations from constriction, foreign bodies in the urethra, and other injuries of the penis, with or without fracture of the pelvis. The late Mr. Partridge1 narrated the case of a man who had lost his entire penis from gangrene occurring with typhus fever. He was a sober man, aged forty years, and had been delirious and unconscious, and indifferently attended for a week; the whole penis, as far as its root, in front of the scrotum, was found to be gangrenous, with a distinct line of demarcation between the living and dead tissues ; the mortified part was black, half dry, and collapsed, and looked like the empty finger of an old black kid glove. The urine dribbled from an aperture between the gangrenous and sound parts ; the orifice left after separation of the slough, seeming to be disposed to contract, was slit up for one-third of an inch, and its mucous lining stitched to the adjacent skin. Mr. Gay2 records a case of gangrene of the entire corpora cavernosa and corpus spon- giosum, probably from thrombosis of the iliac vein consequent on rheumatic phlebitis. A cabinet-maker, aged thirty-one, caught cold, his temperature became 100° F., and he had pain in his left calf. In the course of a few days the pain in the calf sub- sided, but idiere were swelling and tenderness over the external saphena and femoral veins. The penis now became distended and rigid, the glans being of a dusky hue ; the integuments were oedematous, but of their natural color. The glans penis became black; the integument of the organ had retained its vitality, but the cavernous and spongy bodies had perished, and were subsequently removed as a slough. The death of the penis in this case was due to a plug in the internal iliac vein. The blood-current from the deep structures of the penis has no outflow but through the deep or systemic veins, so that obstruction in these is fatal to the deep parts, hut not to the integument. It is probable that an injection will pass from the superficial to the deep veins. In the Transactions of the Pathological Society3 is given the drawing of a young soldier who had lost the whole of his penis from syphilitic phagedsena; an aperture remained in the scrotum, which looked like a small vagina. The penis when attacked by gangrene swells, and as a rule the skin be- comes discolored, red, and then black; the temperature is diminished, and the sensibility of the part abolished. There is a well-marked line of demar- cation, a deep sulcus forms, the living portion of the penis presents a red circle caused by granulations, which are very vascular, bleeding readily when touched, and bathed in healthy pus; the urine is passed through an opening in the sulcus, the slough eventually separates, and the part cicatrizes. In cases of extravasation of urine, the appearance of a black spot on the glans penis is a had sign. The prognosis in these cases depends on the cause of the gangrene: if local, and if the health be tolerably good, the patient will recover with loss of more or less of the organ. Generally there is a good deal of constitutional disturbance, and a low typhoid condition. The patient is to be treated by the administration of stimulants, tonics, and good and suit- able nourishment, and must be kept in bed, in a room of an even temperature. Locally, fomentations may be applied and different kinds of disinfectants used ; in some instances a charcoal poultice will be found of service. When the gangrenous portion has separated, the resulting wound is to he dressed according to its condition, and the lower wall of the urethra and skin should be divided for half an inch, and stitched together in order to prevent constric- tion of the orifice should this threaten. Erysipelas may spread to the penis from neighboring parts, or may arise from some abrasion or inflammation. The organ is red and swollen, and the 1 Trans. Path. Soc. Lond., vol. xvi. p. 192. £ Ibid., vol. xxx. p. 323. 3 Ibid., vol. xii. p. 141.