628 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. grafting of the germs of such tissue has taken place in the rudimentary testicle, at the early period of development, when, according to Waldeyer, no distinc- tion of germinal layers can be made in the region of the axis cord.1 MM. Olli- vier (d’Angers), Lebert, Littre, and Robin seek to draw a distinction be- tween scrotal inclusion and dermoid cysts. Some theories admit a somewhat strained analogy between the ovary and the testicle, and suppose an isolated proliferating faculty. Others hold that the two glands are provided with a common element, the germinative epithelium. These theories cannot be substantiated, as it has been clearly demonstrated that the foetal inclusion may be quite independent of the testicle itself. Dr. J. Boeckel’s2 case was that of a man, aged 38, who had enjoyed good health until a painful swelling appeared in the part, which gradually grew to the size of a hen’s egg. This was punctured, and some dark fluid evacuated ; acute inflammation and rapid increase in the size of the swelling ensued. Fearing that the growth was a sarcoma, castration was performed. On dissection the testicle was found to be quite healthy, being pressed backwards and downwards against the tunica albuginea, which was slightly thickened. The tumor, which contained the debris usually found in dermoid cysts, -was inclosed in a pouch constituted by the deep layers of the scrotum, and was formed of a soft fibrous material, through which numerous cysts were scattered. M. Leon Labbe met with "this remarkable case in 1858 :—A boy, aged 14, presented himself with a congenital tumor of the right testicle, which was nodulated, hard in some places, and soft in others. The tumor, after castration, was found to be implanted in the epididymis and corpus Highmori, the gland-tissue itself being quite healthy and inde- pendent of it. The tumor was essentially made up of a series of isolated cysts, inclos- ing sebaceous material, mucus, hairs, cartilage, debris, cholesterin, and epidermic cells. Two cysts filled with mucus contained, besides mucous glands, unstriped muscular fibres, papilla;, and villi (villosites), which rendered it highly probable that these were two portions of the intestine. Two arytenoid cartilages could also be distinctly recog- nized. These cartilages, together with the two ends of intestine simulating cysts, could only emanate directly from the internal leaf of the blastoderm : a new' fact in the history of monstrosities by inclusion. The tumors are congenital, but may pass unnoticed until active growth calls the patient’s attention to the part; the tact that they are congenital is an aid to diagnosis. Exploration of the tumor with an acupuncture needle here and there, where indurated masses can be felt, may reveal the presence of bones. Repeated attacks of inflammation cause the testicle to waste and fistnlre to form, which give exit to foetal structures, or allow the bones to be detected by a probe. A careful dissection should be made with antiseptic precautions, and the cyst separated from the testicle; or the tumor may be laid open, its contents evacuated, and as much of the investing cyst removed as may be thought expedient. Should the testis be atrophied, or intimately incorporated with the tumor, no attempt need be made to save it. Enchondroma of the Testis.—In some rare instances, enehondroma of the testis is deposited as a solitary hyaline nodule, the size of a walnut or a fowl’s egg. In many cases the nodule of cartilage is associated with a fibro- cystic or carcinomatous growth, and the tumor attains to a great size. In the Hunterian Museum (Specimen 2386) is a thin section of an almost wholly Solid Tumors of the Testis. 1 Curling, op. cit., p. 408. London, 1878. 2 De 1’Inclusion peri-testiculaire, L’Union Med., tome xxv.