121 CANCER OF THE RECTUM. the early stages. In the more advanced periods of the malady the pain often becomes unremitting, from the fact that many nerves become involved, and are pressed upon or stretched, the neighboring organs thus becoming seats of separate pain, even if they are not actually touched by the growth. I had a patient with cancer, which, commencing in the rectum, involved the whole cavity of the pelvis, and pain down the right sciatic nerve was one of his most distressing symptoms. The forms of malignant disease usually described as occurring in the rectum are epithelioma, scirrhus, encephaloid, colloid, and melanosis. I think that I have placed them in their order of frequency. I have never seen a mela- notic tumor of the rectum. I have seen many colloid tumors, but I am not sure that encephaloid may not be colloid, or pass into it. From my own clinical observation I should be inclined to say that in cancer of the rectum it is often very difficult, if even possible, to make any distinction between broken-down scirrhus and epithelioma. I have seen cancers of the rectum stony hard at one part and quite soft at another. Malignant growths are commonly found seated within three inches of the anus, but often extend higher up, the most rapidly dangerous being about the upper part of the rectum and the lower portion of the sigmoid flexure. When cancer occurs near the anus, it may extend upwards beyond the reach of the finger, but more frequently it does not, and the whole extent of the disease can be ascertained. If epithelioma begins at the anus itself, it may extend upwards for a variable distance, usually, however, not so far as to put excision out of the question. There is in cancer of the rectum a peculiar odor, which oue cannot describe, but which once recognized will rarely be forgotten. In my opinion the odor is pathognomonic. In scirrhus and encephaloid, the mucous membrane may for a time remain quite smooth and unaffected, though adherent to the growth below. In epithelioma, the mu- cous membrane seems to be implicated from the first throughout, and, even when the growth is considerable, will be found movable^over structures beneath. Scirrhus is often found as a hard tumor seated in the rectum over the prostate gland, and, although it may not have arisen from the gland itself, nor invaded it at all, yet it is remarkably adherent to it. The more malignant forms of cancer do not exist long in the rectum before secondary deposits occur in the lumbar glands, groin, liver, etc. The aspect ot countenance which so often attends the cancerous cachexia is very usual, and is seen earlier in cancer of the rectum, I think, than in similar disease of other parts. AV hen the cancerous growth is high up, vomiting, frequent and severe, is an early symptom, even when not much obstruction exists. The onset of cancer in the rectum is often marked by very trivial symptoms. A patient may come into the surgeon’s consulting room complaining of no more than a little diarrhoea in the morning, or even of only a little uneasi- ness in the bowel. lie may look thoroughly healthy and strong, and may really think himself well in every respect save for the slight local trouble; yet, on making an examination, it may be found that the disease is advanced beyond all possibility of doing any good. When cancer attacks the upper- most portion of the rectum, or the sigmoid flexure, it runs a more rapid course, and is much more dangerous ; indeed, sudden death is not uncommon, as total obstruction takes place quickly, and, unless colotomy be promptly performed, the intestine gives way above the obstruction, and death ensues. Cancerous stricture of the upper part of the sigmoid flexure, or of the de- scending colon, is not so immediately dangerous, although the obstruction may be total. I have seen cases of this kind in which life has lasted eight weeks or longer.