448 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE URETHRA. at one of its extremities a small articulated curette, which may be inclined at will at a right angle by means of a brass wire concealed in the hollow of the eanula. The instrument is introduced into the urethra with the curette in the same axis as the instrument, and the curette is raised as soon as it has- • * Fig. 1322. A. in I mum Him Blllilllllllillliilil'llillllillilS) £ £ Jointed curette of Leroy d’fitiolles. passed the obstacle. The calculus being thus hooked up, it is gently drawn out. This ingenious and useful instrument is not the only one which has been devised. Marini used a solid rod, terminated at one of its extremities with a metallic wire forming an elongated loop which was moved about in such a manner as to lay hold of the calculus. The somewhat primitive apparatus of Marini has been improved by J. Cloquet, and transformed by him into a sort of serre-noeud. But of all the instruments, the best is that which is known by the name of “ Hunter’s forceps.” (Fig. 1823.) It is com- Fig. 1323. Hunter’s forceps. posed of a metallic eanula, open at both ends, and containing in its cavity a shaft terminating in two or three branches, three centimetres long, convex without and concave within. These branches, which separate when they are free, come together when the shaft is drawn back, and re-enter the eanula. The forceps are thus introduced into the urethra, and the eanula is drawn back as soon as the obstacle is reached, when the branches, being set free, sepa- rate and embrace the calculus, and, when the stone is once grasped, it is only necessary to push the eanula forward again and to draw the instrument out. If a calculus be situated in the deepest part of the urethra, a straight instru- ment cannot be used. Then recourse can be had either to the curved forceps of Voillemier—a kind of sound, the two halves of which form a spring and separate as soon as they cease to be pressed together—or to the forceps of Cusco, the two branches of which separate only at their extremities by means of a special mechanism. But there are some cases in which, either on account of the size of the stone or in consequence of its imprisonment in the urethra, the above described in- struments are inadequate. It is for such cases that urethral lithotrity has been proposed. This operation is of very ancient date. Already described with some details by Albucasis, it was set forth with much more precision by Franco, whose method consisted in fixing the calculus with a ligature placed round the penis, perforating it with a gimlet, and then squeezing it between the fingers to effect its rupture. The surgeons of the last century attached only moderate importance to the crushing of stones in the urethra ; the invention of lithotrity recalled attention to this operation. Then were invented the urethral lithotrites of Dubowisky, of Leroy d'Etiolles, of ISTela- ton (Fig. 1324), and of Reliquet. All these instruments are open to the