DISEASES OF THE CERVIX UTERI. 733 feeling that but a little more and the sleep would have ended, as indeed it does not very rarely, in death.”1 In about one sixth of the cases of uterine cancer, according to L. de Sinety, vesico-vaginalfistula results from the extension of the disease to the bladder; in a much smaller proportion of cases, and at a somewhat later period, recto- vaginal fistula occurs, and then the renal secretion and feces, mingled with vaginal and uterine discharges, are evacuated from a common cavity. It is not uncommon when the first indications of cancer are observed, to find more or less immobility of the uterus, arising possibly from benign in- flammation of the adjacent connective tissue; but after a time the cancerous disease spreads to parts and organs adjacent to the womb, so that ultimately in some cases this organ is but the centre of a cancerous mass, almost filling it may be the true pelvis. “ Metastatic cancers are much less common ; and their rarity, opposed to the relative frequency of the extension of the disease by continuity, is one of the best arguments that can be invoked for the admis- sion of the predominance of cancroid or epithelioma over other forms of uterine cancer.” (Gusserow.) Bandl gives the average duration of uterine cancer as one year and a half, but there are cases in which the fatal issue is much longer delayed, from five to eleven years; especially slow are cases of carcinoma of the body of the uterus. Barker has reported a case in which death did not occur for twelve years and a half. The average duration, as given by Lebert, is a fraction over 16 months; as given by West, 17.3 months. In one case under the observation of the latter writer, death occurred within four months. As a rule, women with uterine cancer live longest when the disease occurs after the menopause. Death may be caused by marasmus, hemorrhage, peritonitis, pulmonary complications, or embolism, or by uriemic accidents arising from obstruction of the ureters. Diagnosis.—Usually when a case of cancer of the cervix first comes under professional observation, the disease presents such unequivocal symptoms that an error of diagnosis, is impossible. The time for radical cure is almost always over when the unequivocal clinical signs of cancer are present.2 Beginning carcinoma of the vaginal portion is characterized by hard nodules, and by lessened mobility of the superjacent mucous membrane; these nodules are bluish or violet colored. The cancerous ulcer is excavated, irregular in form, with elevated and infiltrated borders.3 According to Sire- dey and Danlos, benign is distinguished from malignant papilloma by the fact that in the former the papillomatous productions are more friable, bleed more readily, and are implanted upon a broader base. Nevertheless, they say that these differences are not always very pronounced, and that many times even the microscope does not furnish a conclusive diagnosis. The occurrence of papillomata in pregnancy, and in connection with similar vagi- nal and vulvar formations, would indicate their benign character. If the cancer be limited to the cervical canal, and the os be so contracted that ex- amination is impossible, Bandl advises bilateral division of the cervix. Treatment.—There is but one remedy for cancer'of the cervix; removal of the entire diseased part. The different methods of amputating the cervix are given on page g73. If the disease has extended to the body of the uterus, the question of removal of the entire organ is presented. Scliroeder observes that the prognosis of the radical operation for carci- noma includes not only the mortality of the operation, but also that which results from a return of the disease. His statistics give the following results: 1 West, op. cit. 2 Bandl. L. de Sin6ty.