868 INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS OF THE BONES. the same conditions, also, tuberculosis may develop rapidly, assume the character of an acute infection, and give rise to a multiple osteitis which progresses rapidly and secretly invades different parts of the skeleton, differ- ing from pseudo-rheumatic infectious osteitis by the absence of acute pain, in spite of suppuration of the juxta-epiphyseal regions. In some cases I have recognized this form of acute tuberculous infection of the bones*, in the future it will be advisable, in the diagnosis of cases of this sort, to search not only for the micrococci which are said to be characteristic of infectious osteitis, but also for the bacillus of tuberculosis. Whatever may be the results given by such an examination, which I have not been able to make as yet, because I have not lately had an opportunity to observe favor- able cases, the acute and infectious form of osseous tuberculosis should be recognized. If delayed post-febrile osteitis appears commonly in the snbacute or chronic form, that which is contemporaneous with eruptive fevers may also have this character. During an epidemic which prevailed in Lyons, in 1874, I had several times occasion to open collections of pus which had formed in the course of typhoid fever, and which had not given rise to any acute pain. In these cases there was superficial periostitis, and, after the abscess was opened, cicatrization occurred without necrosis following. In my investigation of juxta-epiphyseal strain11 noticed the slight adhesion of the diaphyses to the corresponding connecting cartilages in children who had died of eruptive fevers, and especially of hemorrhagic variola. Separation of the diaphysis took place upon the least effort, and the periosteum was less adherent to thb bone than in the normal state. This condition probably exists more or less in all diseases of this category, and may continue for a certain time ; this is one cause of the facility with which juxta-epiphyseal strains take place during convalescence from these diseases, and it furnishes an explanation of the chronic osteitis which may develop afterwards. We know also that in a great number of severe diseases in children a con- siderable increase in the height of the patient is observed. Depose in the horizontal position and diminution of pressure cannot explain this lengthen- ing of the bones. Auboyer,2 who measured many children suffering with acute diseases, found an appreciable increase in height in only eleven out of sixty-two patients. In this connection we must take account of the congested state of the medulla, which has been observed by various observers (Busch, Neumann, Ponfick), and which may at any moment favor the proliferation of the connecting cartilages. Whatever may be the significance of this con- gested state in regard to growth, it is one of the causes which explain the frequency of juxta-epiphyseal post-febrile osteitis. From the details which have been given, it is seen that, independent of the resistance of the individual, which cannot be appreciated beforehand, there are different elements which may intervene to explain post-febrile osteitis, and that if infectious agents may produce it, general alteration of the nutri- tion and the common causes of osteitis play also an important part in its etiology. Rheumatic and Neuralgic Inflammations of Bone.—Until recently there has been little disposition to recognize a rheumatic form of osteitis, at least as a distinct affection and determinate morbid process. The articular lesions have masked those of the bone and have caused them to be overlooked. Adams, Cadiat, Ferreo’l, Gosselin, and others, have corrected this misunderstanding, 1 De l’entorse juxta-epiphysaire (Revue Mensuelle de Medecine et de Chirurgie, 1881), 2 These de Lyou, 1881.