INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. 634 are found in its tissues ; the veins of the scrotum are also enlarged. A syphilitic history is a guide in some cases, and a double tumor will "indicate a non-cancerous affection, as cancer does not attack both glands. The effect of specific treatment in the early stage is a valuable guide to diagnosis. In a case that came under my care, valuable time had been lost by submitting the patient to a mercurial course ; his health was reduced, the testicle had be- come large, and the cord and lymphatic glands were affected to such an extent that an operation was deemed unadvisable. Cystic disease, when unassociated with cartilage—which can lie felt as hard lumps in the tumor—may resemble carcinoma to the touch, giving a sense of fluctuation here and there, and being associated with a slight swelling of the vessels of the cord. Its diag- nosis has already been considered. It is undesirable to puncture a medullarv tumor of the testis, unless its removal, if necessary, he determined on, as a fungus is likely to sprout forth through the puncture. It is, however, always advisable to make an exploratory incision into the swelling at the time of operation, in order to ascertain its nature. Castration is alike the remedy for carcinoma and cystic sarcoma. Mr. Curling has collected the following cases of patients who survived for many years the operation of castration, done for soft cancer:—In two cases in his own practice, the patients were alive and well fifteen and five years after the operation ; a patient under the care of Mr. Meade, of Bradford, was alive and well nine years; Mr. Caesar Hawkins’s patient twelve years; Sir James Paget’s patient nine years; and Mr. Cock’s patient six years after the operation. A specimen of carcinoma testis under the microscope (Plate XXXV., Fig. 6) shows that all trace of normal structure lias disappeared, and that a fibrous stroma with large cells of an epithelial type in its alveoli has taken its place. Thiersch and Waldeyer hold that the cells of cancer are the direct descendants of pre-existing epithelial cells, and that true carcinoma can never arise where epithelium does not exist. The epithelium is that which covers free surfaces, and not that which lines bloodvessels and lymph-spaces or cavities, which is called “endothelium.” Waldeyer considers that the alveoli of the cancer-stroma are merely lymph-spaces invaded by rapidly growing epithelium-cells.1 Birch-Hirschfeld has shown that in soft cancer of the testicle, the cancer-cells are lineally descended from the epithelial elements of the gland-tubuli; and that the isolated tubuli are studded with nodular, ill-defined protrusions, or else, expanding somewhat abruptly, pass continuously into the tumor itself. Rindfleisch maintains that the beginning of the growth consists of a proliferation of the epithelial elements of the testicle.2 MM. Cornil and Ranvier do not consider the seminiferous tubes to be the starting-point of cancer, but believe that it is developed in the testicle, as in the con- nective tissue, by the swelling of the connective-tissue cells, and by the new formation of large cells which occupy the spaces of the connective tissue between the bundles of fibres and the lymphatic cavities.3 Sarcoma.—Of late years, tumors have-been arranged according to their his- tological texture as disclosed by the microscope, and this method is more scien- tific and convenient than the old classification; but a medullary sarcoma not only resembles the medullary carcinoma, with which it used to he confounded, in its naked-eye appearances, but resembles it also in malignancy. The diffi- culty of diagnosis is still greater when, as not unfrequently occurs, different abnormal growths are associated in the same tumor. The trabeculae of spindle- cells form spaces containing nests of true cancer-cells, which resemble transverse 1 Erichsen, Science and Art of Surgery, 7tli edit., vol. i. p. 779. 2 Op. cit., vol. ii. 3 Op. cit.