HiEMATURIA. 895 2 Ibid. 1 Roberts, Urinary and Renal Diseases. feeble refractive power. When the bi-concave form is preserved, this of course is diagnostic.”1 Hfematuria must not be confounded with another condition, to which the term hsematinuria (more correctly haemoglobin uria) has been applied. In the latter, the urine becomes highly discolored with haemoglobin, but no blood-corpuscles are to be detected. “ It is caused by rapid destruction of the blood-disks in the bloodvessels, such as occurs in that state which is known as a ‘dissolved state of the blood,’ in septic, pyaemic, and putrid fevers, and in some extreme cases of scurvy and purpura. In such cases hte- matine is set free by the disintegration of the red disks, and appears in the urine. Vogel found that inhalation of arseniuretted hydrogen produced an intense (but temporary) degree of haematinuria.”2 A careful examination of the urine with the microscope, immediately after it has been passed, will enable the practitioner not only to detect blood, should it be present in any form in the excretion, but to distinguish any coloration which may exist from that caused by haemoglobin. In connection with these remarks on the importance of the use of the mi- croscope for detecting blood in the urine, reference may be made to an excep- tional case of recurring hfematuria recorded by Dr. W. Roberts,3 in which chains of micrococci were in this way discovered immediately after the urine had been passed. Dr. Roberts concludes bis observations by suggesting that this case may furnish a key to others of a similar kind in which the cause for the hemorrhage seems inexplicable. Other means for the detection of blood in urine are the guaiacum test of Dr. John Day, of Geelong, and the spectroscopic examination of the fluid. The former depends on the haemoglobin of the blood setting free ozone, which colors the precipitated resin of guaiacum, a bright sapphire blue. Place a drop or two of the suspected urine in a small test-tube, add a drop of recently prepared tincture of guaiacum and a few drops of ozonic ether, agitate, and allow the ether to collect at the top. If blood be present, the ether acquires a blue color, leaving Tie urine below colorless. No saliva must be mixed with the urine, and the patient must not be takingasalt of iodine. The presence of much pus or mucus will cause the development of the reaction, even if blood be absent. For the spectroscope, the urine, if turbid, should be filtered, and if very dark should be diluted until of a faint red color, when, being placed in a test-tube, and the light pass- ing through it being examined by means of an ordinary spectroscope, it will be seen that the blue end of the spectrum is darkened. Two absorption-bands are visible just below Frauenhofer’s line Q. in the yellow half of the green. The band nearer the violet end is about twice as broad as the other. If any doubt be entertained as to the position or appearance of the bands, add to the fluid a very little ammonia, then a small quantity of the double tartrate of sodium and potassium, and finally a small fragment of ferrous ammonium-sulphate. Stir the solution, close tlie tube, and examine with a spectroscope ; when, in place of the two bands, a single fainter but broader band, intermediate in posi- tion between the two which it has replaced, will be found. In dealing with small quantities, the micro-spectroscope may be used with advantage. With respect both to the guaiacum and spectroscopic tests, it is to be remembered that they only show the presence of the coloring matter of the blood, and not of the blood-corpuscles, and that consequently they do not serve to distinguish between hfematuria and liaemoglobinuria. The other form in which blood is found in the urine is where it is clotted and not uniformly mixed with the fluid. Clots in urine should always be carefully examined, as they may indicate 3 British Medical Journal, October 15, 1881.