INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTION. 48 invaginated into the first, which then serves for its sheath, or the first sheath with its included intussusceptum being itself invaginated into another por- tion of bowel, which then forms a second sheath. These are called double intussusceptions, and a few cases of triple intussusception even are on record, there being in these no less than seven layers of gut. The most frequent seat of invagination is at the ileo-ceecal junction, the caecum turning upon itself, and with the ileum passing down into the colon, with the apex of the intussusceptum constituted by the ileo-ciecal valve (ileo- caecal invagination)-, a much rarer variety is that named by Leichtenstern the ileo-colic, in which the ileum slips through the ileo-caecal valve, and enters the colon unaccompanied by the caecum, the apex of the intussusception being* here formed by the reflexion of the ileum upon itself. Invaginations limited to the small intestine come next in frequency to the ileo-caecal, those of the ileum being, according to Brinton, much commoner, but according to Treves much rarer, than those of the jejunum; and lastly those limited to the large intestine. I have summarized in the annexed table the percentages bearing upon this point, derived from the statistics respectively collected by Brinton, Leichtenstern,1 and Bulteau. Table showing the Relative Frequency of Different Varieties of Intussusception. Author. Ileo-cjecal and Ileo-colic. S Ileal and Jejunal. Colic. Brinton ..... 56 per cent. 28 per cent. | 4 per cent. 12 per cent. Leichtenstern 44 per cent. | 8 per cent. 30 per cent. 18 Bulteau ..... 51.4 per cent. 28.8 “ 19.8 “ It will be seen from the above figures that, in round numbers, more than one-half of all cases of intussusception occur in the ileo-caecal region, less than one-third in the small intestine, and about one-sixth in the large bowel. In the progress of an intussusception its increase is at the expense of the sheath, which continues to turn upon itself at its neck ; so that an ileo-caecal invagination, for instance, beginning of course on the right side of the abdomen, comes gradually, by the inversion of successive portions of colon, to form a tumor upon the left side, and finally may protrude at the anus. The only ex- ception to this rule is in the case of the ileo-colic variety, in which, the ileo- cecal valve having been passed, there is nothing, unless adhesions are formed, to restrain the ileum from continuing to slip into the colon, and in which there- fore the intussusception grows by successive portions of its entering layer becoming inverted, and thus added to the returning layer, while the sheath, for a time at least, remains unchanged. As the mesentery is carried with the enter- ing layer into the sheath, it drags upon the former and tends both to give the intussusception a curved—sometimes a sharply curved—outline, and to dis- place the orifice of the invaginated gut towards the mesenteric side of the intussuscipiens; these changes are most marked in the case ot ileo-cpecal invaginations, and manifestly increase the tendency to complete occlusion. The extent of bowel involved in an intussusception may vary from a few inches to more than two yards. Intussusceptions, as a rule, soon become irreducible from the formation of peritoneal adhesions between the serous surfaces of the entering and returning layers; these adhesions vary in firmness in different cases, are sometimes 1 Besides Leichtenstern’s monograph in Zieinssen’s Cyclopsedia, already referred to, he has published an elaborate study of intussusception in the Vierteljalirsclirift fur die practiselie Heilkunde, Bd. cxviii.-cxxi.