PREPARATION OF MILITARY SURGEONS FOR FIELD DUTIES. 1145 Duties of the Chief Ambulance Officer of a Division He should be the receipt- ing officer for all quartermaster’s property belonging to his division, and be responsible for all deficiencies. He should make all necessary returns required by the quarter- master’s department, commissary department, and ordnance department, viz: Monthly returns of property to the quartermaster’s department, quarterly return of ordnance, usual ration-return to commissary department, also the daily forage report, the weekly report of ambulance department, monthly report to quartermaster’s department, and monthly report of officers. When on the march, he should attend to the running of his train, see that forage is drawn from the nearest post, and a sufficient quantity kept constantly on hand ; properly park his train at night according to orders from the chief ambulance officer of the corps, necessary sentries being posted so that horses may not stray away or be stolen, and be ready to move at short notice. Before an engagement, it is his duty to see that the brigade officers are with their brigades, and that they have the sergeants and stretcher-bearers well up with their regiments; to have his train so parked that it will be easy of access, and so near that the stretcher-men will not have any further than actually necessary to carry the wounded, and at the same time protect his horses from unnecessary exposure ; and after an engagement to assure himself that all the wounded of the division have been removed from the field ; also to assist the surgeon when a train of sick and wounded is to be sent to base or general hospital. Duties of the Chief Ambulance Officer of a Brigade 1. While in camp, one bri- gade officer of each division train is constantly with the troops, and in case of any move- ment reports the fact at once to the chief ambulance officer of his division. He should see that the drivers and stretcher-men are at the established posts, and that all orders from surgeons for ambulances or stretchers for the transportation of sick or wounded men are promptly attended to. 2. When not on duty with the troops, he will see that the ambulances are properly parked, and that the drivers attend faithfully to the feeding and grooming of their horses, the cleaning of the harness and ambulances, and the policing of the stables and grounds of the park ; also that the kegs are kept constantly filled with fresh water. Stretcher-men will assist in the policing when not on duty at the division hospital. 3. A suitable non-commissioned officer will be selected to have the direct supervision of the ambulances of the brigade, and another of the stretcher- men. The rest of the non-commissioned officers will have charge of the stretcher-men of their respective regiments under the one in charge of the stretcher-men of the brigade. 4. On the march (unless otherwise directed) brigade officers remain with the head- quarters of their brigades, and in case of an engagement select a spot as near the line as possible, with a reasonable degree of safety to the horses, and as central to the lines of the brigade as possible. 5. The brigade officer will cause a small number of ambu- lances to be brought to the spot selected, and others to be sent to fill their places; and as fast as they are filled will send them to the place selected for the hospital. The stretcher- men will be informed of the position of the ambulances, and will bring to them as fast as possible any man that may be wounded or unable to walk, until all the wounded men are carried from the field. 6. The brigade officer should inform himself of the shortest and best roads to the division hospital, and see that the drivers take them, driving carefully, and avoiding the bad places as much as possible on an uneven road. A good non-commissioned officer should remain constantly with the advanced ambu- lances to see that the wounded men are loaded carefully and speedily, and that the drivers do not get demoralized. 7. No written reports are made by brigade officers. They report verbally to the division officer any breach of discipline or neglect of duty that may require his attention. 8. He receives only such orders as come through the chief am- bulance officer of the corps, or of his division, or through some medical officer. The space at command will not admit of giving here the various blank forms of reports and returns mentioned in the foregoing account. Some are to be found in the army regulations of 1881, and all will doubtless be supplied when needed by the medical authorities. The subjects of the transportation of wounded by railroad and by hospital transport-vessels, as well as the organization and management of general hospitals, do not come within the scope of this article.