HISTORY OF SURGERY. 1195 the cure of wounds received by shot of Gunne or such like engines of wcirre. Whereunto is added his Spagericke antidotary of medicines against the aforesaid woundes.” All the old errors of venom in gunshot wounds, the compounding of complex unguents, and the like, are taught by this author. It is historically interesting as showing the state of military surgery at that date; it is curious, and now quite a rare book. Felix Wurtz, or Wurtzius, of Basle, who flourished about 1575, wrote a work on surgery which was translated from the German into English, and published at London, in small quarto in 1632. This “Book of that famous and well expert surgeon Felix Wurtz, Citie Surgeon of Basell,” had already been reprinted twenty-eight times in German, and also several times in Bel- gic, during the previous half century. It was chiefly devoted to the “ Cure of all sorts of Wounds in Mans Body, from the Head to the Toe.” It treated also of “ other Infirmities belonging to Surgerieas well as “ of all kinds of Balmes, Salves, Plaisters, Ointments, Oyles, Blood-stenchers,” etc. It is in books of this sort that we are made familiar with the every-day sur- gery of the period. There is yet a multitude of surgical treatises still extant, which were written and published in the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries, and which possess more or less interest historically, but limited space precludes even the briefest mention of their titles, far less an analytical digest of their contents. Those which have been cited, or may yet be referred to, are such as were most famous, and most worthy of note, on account of containing improve- ments in surgical practice, or those that exercised the most potential influence in the correction of contemporary errors. Among the interesting monumental works on surgery, none is more curious or worthy of mention than that of Joannes Andreas a Cruce, or, as the French write his name, Jean Anclre Delacroix. This work was first published in his native city of Venice, in folio, in 1573. From the number of its editions the work must have been in great demand. It is profusely illustrated with wood engravings. It is here that we find pictures of the greatest number and variety of the instruments used by the ancient chirurgeons. More than a hundred engravings are devoted to trephines and other instruments used in operations upon the head ; to which are added quite large scenic pictures of operations, with surgeons, attendants, domestic interiors, family, dogs, cats, and mice. There are two full-page pictures of battles, with army surgeons in the foreground, engaged in operating upon the wounded (pp. 126,131); also figures of all the forms of arrow-head mentioned by Paulus zEgineta and the Arabian writers, with the instruments needed for their extraction. There is much surgical anatomy interspersed in the various sections of this grand old treatise. Giovanni di Vigo, a native of Genoa, flourished towards the end of the fif- teenth and the early part of the sixteenth centuries. He wrote a very com- plete treatise with the following title: “ Practica in Arte Chirurgica copiosa, continens novem libros.” He was the physician and surgeon of Julius II., and resided in Rome, at which place the first edition of his work was pub- lished, in folio, in 1514. It was published in many places, and translated into many languages, in the course of two centuries, being highly esteemed as a standard authority. It was published in English, at London, in 1543. In the dedication, the translator says: “ I thynke that nothyng canne better testifie and proove the connynge of this man, than that he continued so long with so greate prayse, practysynge at Rome in such a multitude of curtisanes, neyther priestes, bysshopses, nor cardinales excepted, as it playnlye appeareth in his book.” Gulielmus Fabricius Hildauus, who was distinguished after the manner