672 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE FEMALE GENITALS. vagina, its further course is guided by the position which the digital ex- amination has shown to be occupied by the mouth of the womb, and the instrument is, if necessary, rotated so that the most projecting part shall come behind the cervix. The bivalve speculum most frequently used is that of Cusco, or some modification of it. The blades are united by a joint, and after the instru- ment is introduced, they are placed so that one is in relation with the ante- rior, the other with the posterior vaginal wall, and then, by means of a screw placed externally, they are separated ; this is a self-retaining instrument. In Goodell’s speculum the blades are separated laterally with reference to the vagina. Heugebauer’s is one of the most useful of bivalve specula. It con- sists of four blades of different sizes in a set, thus permitting the forma- tion of three specula ; there are no fixed screws or joints to rust, or otherwise get out of order, and the instrument may be much more readily cleaned than Cusco’s, or any of its modifications ; by uniting with the accompanying screw the external part of two of the blades, a substitute for a Sims’s speculum, which may answer for an emergency, is formed; it is,if the patient makes no straining efforts, self-retaining, or at least requires the examiner to hold only the upper blade in position. The Cusco or the Neugebauer speculum is generally used with the patient in the lithotomy position. In using the latter instrument, the blades having been properly prepared, the larger is introduced with its convex surface in relation to the posterior vaginal wall, when the smaller has its beak dipping in between the sides of the other blade, and of course its convex surface in relation to the anterior vaginal wall. The lower blade has its beak behind, the upper, above the vaginal cervix; by separating the handles the cervix is exposed, and a certain amount of traction may also be made by this separa- tion so that the uterus is drawn down; either arm of this bivalve speculum can be readily lengthened or shortened as the examination may require. The most useful of uterine specula is the univalve instrument of Sims, or the same as modified by Simon. The Sims speculum is composed of two blades differing in size, united by a handle, or shank, the blades being at right angles to the shank. The blades are concavo-convex ; the instrument is usually made of silver-plated metal, but sometimes of hard rubber. This speculum may be used with the patient in the genu-pectoral, or in the abdomino-lateral posi- tion ; the latter position is less trying to her, and usually the more convenient for examination and operation. It is advisable to have two of these specula, and thus four blades of different sizes. The surgeon selects a blade of suitable size for the case, and, after warming and oiling it, holds it in one hand, while the other separates the labia for its entrance; the index finger is now placed in the concavity of the blade, its point projecting a little beyond the end of the latter, and is used as a guide until the blade reaches the upper part of the posterior portion of the vagina. After the introduction of this blade the instrument is firmly grasped by the shank, near the other, and the peri- neum is drawn back, for the instrument acts chiefly as a perineal retractor. The anterior vaginal wall may hide the cervix from view, and then an instrument devised by Dr. Sims, called a depressor, is necessary with which to push it away; this is made of plated copper, and is composed of a rod formed at one end into a fenestrated oval or circular, while a wooden handle is attached to the other. Tenaculum or tenaculum-forceps may also be necessary for perfect exposure of the cervix, as well as to fix it for further examination, or for making applications. The speculum of Simon is composed of four blades of different sizes, with a handle to which any of the blades may be fastened at a right angle ; the blades have about the same form as those of the Sims speculum, though pre-