1070 ORTHOPEDIC SURGERY. uneven, the one being raised rather above the level of the other. In the case of lateral curvature, these differences, when existing, will be persistent in spite of the efforts of the surgeon to correct them: if the depressed shoulder he pushed up, it will directly resume its former position on being released, and the prominence of the scapula will not be corrected except by altering the position of the arm ; in lateral deflection, however, these malpositions can be corrected by the efforts of the patient herself, and by muscular action. Having observed the conditions presented when the subject is in the erect position—standing, that is, with the feet together, the legs straight, and the arms by the sides—the spine must next be examined when bent forwards. The patient should be directed to stoop, bringing the shoulders about on a level with the pelvis, without bending her knees; the surgeon then, with the fore-finger of each hand, carefully feels along each side of the spinous processes from tiie first dorsal to the last lumbar vertebra, in order to ascertain if in any part of the column there is a greater fulness on one side than on the other. The slightest deflection of the bodies of the vertebrae to one side will be at once detected by this examination: on the side towards which rotation has commenced, the transverse processes will be turned a little back- wards; on the opposite side they will be directed forwards; digital pressure will reveal a slight fulness in the former and a corresponding depression in the latter situation, at the seat of commencing curvature; but when no rotation is present, the furrows on each side of the spinous process will he exactly similar, and that the case is merely one of lateral bending of the spine may be confidently declared. The differences between lateral curvature and lateral bending of the spine are clearly such as should prevent any difficulty in recognizing the respective conditions of deformity, but it occasionally hap- pens that the two are found combined in the same person, when it becomes necessary to distinguish to what degree the distortion depends upon structural change, and what share in the case is to be ascribed to spinal weakness. Such a case is illustrated in Fig. 1508, taken from a young girl aged seventeen, who, for about two years before the condition here represented had been reached, had suffered from deformity of the spine. The external appearances exhibited here, show much the same nature of deformity as do the case of commencing Pott’s disease (Fig. 1507) and that of lateral bending (Fig. 1506); if the three cases are compared, they might very natur- ally be supposed to represent three stages of the same condition of distortion, yet each is an exam- ple of a different state of lateral deviation of the spinal column. The patient here referred to had been treated for some length of time for lateral curvature, but the method employed was unsuit- able for her condition, and lateral bending of the spine was developed in addition to the curvature; the reasons for this unfortunate result will have to be referred to when the question of treatment is under consideration; for the present, we are concerned only with the existing complication of two conditions of distortion. This two-fold displacement of the column is also met with in Fig. 1508. Combined lateral curvature and bending.