376 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE BLADDER AND PROSTATE. In the treatment of irritable bladder due to prostatic gout, there are one or two points to which prominence should be given. In the first place, I have never seen it occur except where the urine has been found highly acid, and where crystals of uric acid have been present in abundance. The administra- tion of alkalies in this condition can hardly be regarded as other than a natural expedient. It has been asserted that the neutralization of the urinary acid by the alkaline medicine, is little else than masking the disease, as the cause of the acidity still remains untouched. Whether this be so or not under all circumstances, I do not purpose discussing, but it seems reasonable to infer that the artificial diminution of the acid is likely to alleviate the feeling of burning and spasm which attends each act of micturition. Further, the alkalies generally have the effect of altering the form of the uric acid crystals. I have observed that in persons passing certain crystals, the degree of vesical and urethral irritation has been intense, whilst in others, where the form of crystal has been different, the pain and irritation have been slight. The administration of alkalies not only often effects a change in the shape and quantity of these crystals, but also diminishes the severity of the symptoms to which their presence has given rise. The use of a catheter in these at- tacks is not desirable, unless there are reasons to believe that there is a con- siderable accumulation of urine in the bladder, when a rubber instrument may be passed. In the treatment of this form of irritable prostate, both in its acute and chronic stages, reliance must chiefly he placed on the correction of the state of the urine, and on the employment of remedies which relieve the ordinary manifestations of gout. Patients who are in the habit of suffering from attacks of this kind, generally derive benefit from a periodical residence at such watering places as Vichy, Faehingen, or Buxton. Hypertrophy of the Prostate. Hypertrophy or enlargement of the prostate gland, is a condition which is frequently met with in males who have passed their fifty-fifth year. It may be stated generally that the number of persons thus affected amounts to somewhere about one-third of those living after the specified age has been reached, though it is not implied that all who are affected are necessarily conscious of the change that has taken place. Indeed it often happens, as will be presently shown, that some very large prostates occasion few or no symptoms of their presence. The alteration which takes place in the size of the gland is of the nature of a hypertrophy or overgrowth, that is to say, no fresh structural element is imported. The analogy with ordinary hyper- trophies, however, ends here, as, unlike hypertrophy of the bladder or heart, the change in the prostate is apparently purposeless. The hypertrophy may involve either the whole or a part of the gland, or it may be in the form of an isolated growth imbedded in a normal prostate, or, what is still more common, in one that has already undergone some hy- pertrophic change. These isolated tumors are structurally identical with adenomas, such as are found in the breast, and to these they have many points of resemblance. Whether occurring as independent tumors, capable of being readily separated from their surrounding connections, or as general or partial enlargements, the mass presents, structurally, indications that it consists of varying proportions of the component elements of the normal organ. There has been much speculation as to the causes by which this change is brought about, but as yet no very definite conclusion has been arrived at. It is probable that a solution will be found in the application to the genera-