URINARY CALCULUS. 290 tlie result was death, showing that prudence places the minimum amount to be injected at a safety point inside of Petersen’s 200 grammes. Guyon’s contribution to the Petersen-Guyon-Perier method is a special manoeuvre for rolling upwards the peritoneum out of harm’s way. The high operation may be executed with the least possible apparatus: a sound, a knife, and the fingers may accomplish it. That the operation may be safely done with rude tools, is proved by the well-known case of John Doot, the smith of Amsterdam, who cut himself above the pubis in May, 1651, with a sharp shoemaker’s knife, and delivered himself successfully of a large stone. It has always seemed to me probable that this operation must have been upon a stone encysted above the pubis, perhaps trying to ulcerate its own way out, or possibly upon a stone situated in a vesical hernia in the groin—but this is conjecture only. As to drainage of the bladder, many methods have been used. At one period in the operation it was one of the regular steps to open the urethra in its membranous portion, not purposely for drainage, but for the passage of instruments in the further continuance of the operation. Yet it is notable that in many cases of a severe character the perineum has been first opened by the lateral method in the hope of extracting the foreign body, and, when the operator has failed in this direction, the bladder has been opened above the pubis, and the offending body removed, success crowning the operation. May it not have been in these serious cases that the perineal incision, instead of being a disagreeable complication, has been in reality the means of establishing efficient surgical drainage which has saved the patient? Billroth’s well-known case of myomatous tumor in the bladder was one of this kind. Watson’s case, referred to by Dulles, was another, and a third was a striking case of extraction of a very large stone from a boy by Dr. Howe,1 of Yew York, in which the peritoneum was opened and the intes- tines appeared in the supra-pubic wound. There was, however, free drainage, the perineal opening was ample, and the boy recovered. Undoubtedly all cases cut both in the perineum and at the same time above the pubis do not recover, but it is doubtful if the perineal opening can be looked upon as a damaging complication. But there are other methods of draining the bladder more surgical than the perineal incision. The plan of leaving a soft catheter in the urethra is doubtless not a good one, because its presence in the sensitive neck of the bladder excites that organ to attempts at contraction, and the catheter may slip or be forced out, or may become occluded. As early as 1750, Palluci perforated the bas-fond of the bladder, and drained it in this manner through the perineum. Deschamps, in 1796, perforated through the bas-fond into the rectum, and brought the tube out through the anus. McBurney, of Yew York, did the same thing with the “convolvulus” catheter a few years ago, and I have used the same method for successfully draining the bladder. "But I find in my cases that the tube, be it convolvulus or other, is apt to slip out. The actual cautery has been used as a means of opening the bladder, as has the ecraseur, and the operation has been divided between two sittings; all these plans are designed to prevent infiltration, but all have been given up. The patient has been made to assume and maintain different positions after the operation, for purposes of drainage, but to no purpose. Thus even the abdominal decubitus has been insisted upon. It is said that Trendelenburg employs it. Monod declares that the greatest danger after this operation is from infil- 1 Reported to the New York Pathological and to the New York Surgical Societies in 1883.