345 CYSTITIS. An excess of mucus, perhaps altered in character, in the urinary passages, or the effusion of albumen, fibrine, or blood, and the like, say from congestion of the kidneys or from irritation of the urinary tract, would furnish a colloid medium with which uric acid, the urates, or oxalates—themselves, perhaps, in excess—could combine in the manner before described; should there happen, also, an undue concentration or special loading of the urine, the probabilities would be strengthened that to some illness—fevers of various kinds, ague, or an attack of cholera, renal congestion or indammation— would be correctly dated the commencement of a calculus. It must also be assumed that the continued growth of a stone is dependent upon the presence of organic matter, and this at every stage. Sufficient importance has not been attached to chronic cystitis, in its rela- tion to structural kidney disease—surgical kidney—as well as to the part it plays in the formation of stone. JSTo description of it can have any claim to completeness, unless reference is made to these as amongst its most common results. Symptoms.—The symptoms of chronic cystitis vary both in kind and degree; in the slighter cases there is irritability of the bladder, with an in- creased deposit of flocculent mucus, in which pus-corpuscles are entangled. This condition is frequently seen as a complication of gonorrhoea. The other and more severe variety is attended with a large secretion of mucus, which clings tenaciously to the bottom of the vessel into which the urine has been passed. To this the term catarrh has been applied, a name which is justified by the amount of muco-purulent secretion thrown off by the vesical mucous membrane, and by the resemblance which it bears to the expectoration met with in certain cases of bronchitis. The treatment of chronic cystitis necessarily resolves itself into a considera- tion of the causes producing the disease, which should be carefully gone over. Many of these—as, for instance, the presence in excess of certain of the inorganic constituents of the urine, stone, and stricture—are capable of cor- rection ; whilst others—such as tumors and the enlarged prostate—may only admit of a palliation of the symptoms to which they give rise. Still, the removal of the cause must be the first object in treatment, and is never to be lost sight of throughout. In the slighter forms of cystitis, removal of the cause, combined, perhaps, with the internal administration of buchu, or of an alkali with hyoscyamus, is sufficient to effect a cure. Further, the following indications will require ful- filling: (1) The complete emptying of the bladder ; (2) its thorough cleansing and astringing ; (3) the promoting of a healthy tone in the mucous membrane, by the use, for the most part, of internal medicines having some specific action. (1) As residual urine by its decomposition is a frequent cause of vesical catarrh, provision must be made for the complete emptying of the viscus as often as may be necessary. This is best accomplished by the use of a catheter which the patient may be taught to pass for himself. Among catheters of various kinds, preference will generally be given to those made of soft rubber, which are admirably adapted for the purpose ; they wear well, and are not apt to crack about the eye, as is often the case with the ordinary elastic, olive- pointed instruments, which are favorably known by reason of their easy intro- duction. The f requency with which the catheter is to be used varies in different cases. In some, it is sufficient to draw off the residual urine once or twice in the twenty-four hours; whilst in others, until the cystitis has to some extent subsided, the catheter may be required more frequently. (2) The bladder must not only be kept thoroughly cleansed, but the use of astringent injections is, moreover, often highly beneficial. To commence with, tepid water in small quantities may be employed, by attaching a glass