422 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE URETHRA. The introduction of this instrument is very easy. It suffices, after oiling it well, to insinuate it slowly into the meatus, when a gentle and continuous pressure will make it traverse the whole length of the urethra, if there be no obstruction. In the contrary case the instrument is arrested ; and we shall see hereafter, in speaking of strictures of the urethra, how by this means one can determine exactly the seat, extent, and degree of the narrowing. The exploration of the urethra with the bougie-a-boule makes it possible, also, to recognize the degree of sensitiveness of the canal, and to determine at what points this sensitiveness exists. Exploration of the bladder requires the use of metallic instruments with a small curve. These instruments, generally of silver or German silver, are in the form of solid or hollow sounds (catheters), terminating in a short beak, 25 millimetres long, inclined at an angle of 13° more than a right angle with the shank, and slightly expanded at the end. (Fig. 1306.) Sir Henry Thompson Fig. 1306. has improved this instrument by giving it a cylindrical handle, which makes it possible to guide its movement in every direction, and insures a more accurate contact with the hand of the surgeon. (Fig. 1307.) Further, for Fig. 1307. Thompson’s catheter-sound. exploration of the bladder, and especially in the case of foreign bodies, special instruments are employed, which are designated by the name of exploratory lithotrites. Of these we shall speak hereafter. They have the same form as the exploratory sounds with small curve, and their introduction into the bladder is governed by the same rules. Exploratory Sounding.—The patient should be laid upon a bed of suitable height, the pelvis resting in a horizontal position, or even slightly raised by means of a small pillow or a folded cloth several times doubled, the thighs separated, and the legs slightly flexed. Some surgeons still advise that every exploration of the bladder should be preceded by the injection of a certain quantity of lukewarm water. In most cases it is useless to have re- course to this preliminary operation, and it is enough that the bladder should contain a small quantity of urine for the exploration to be conducted under the best conditions. Should it be otherwise, the surgeon should proceed to this injection, after having previously introduced a flexible, rubber catheter, taking care to introduce the liquid very gently, and to stop before the patient complains of the desire to urinate, and as soon as the piston of the syringe used for the injection encounters the least resistance. The surgeon, placed