732 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE FEMALE GENITALS. years had no indication of cancer of the womb except this false menstruation. In the first stages of the disease the hemorrhage arises from congestion caused by the neoplasm, hut afterwards probably chiefly from ulceration. “As a general rule the 'pain of the early stage of cancer is not severe; it is by no means constantly referred to the uterus, but is more often spoken of as backache, or pain in the loins, wearying by its constancy rather than by its severity.”1 It may accompany the first hemorrhages, but in many cases afterwards precedes the discharge of blood, and is relieved by it. As the disease advances the pain usually increases, and is especially liable to mani- fest itself at night; in very many cases it is described as a sharp, stabbing pain, while in others it seems to be a continual burning or tearing sensation. In some cases the severest suffering is caused by intercurrent attacks of limited peritonitis, as shown by exquisite tenderness, irritable stomach, and rise in temperature. Implication of the branches of the sacral plexus may, in the later stages, be the source of intense suffering. Extension of the dis- ease to the bladder greatly increases the distress of the patient. “ In the greater number of cases, the severest pain is experienced long before the patient’s death, and the last months of existence, when all the evidences of the cancerous cachexia are most marked, and the strength is daily declining, are happily not in general agonized by intensity of suffering such as had been previously endured.”2 In very rare instances the patient may be compara- tively free from pain during the entire course of the disease; according to West, it is in the epithelial form of the malady that such happy exemption mote frequently occurs. Early in the development of the papillomatous form of the disease, in some cases prior to the occurrence of hemorrhage, there are gushes or oozings of a serous fluid; the discharge is neither opaque nor glairy, and it only slightly stains, and scarcely stiffens, the undergarments upon which it falls. In other cases the discharge seems more like a profuse and thin leucorrhoeal flow. More frequently this serous discharge succeeds the first hemorrhages, and intervenes between those which follow. After a time it becomes opaque, sero-sanguineous, like the washings of flesh ; then it becomes purulent or ichorous, contains sometimes fragments of necrosed tissue and clots of blood, and is horribly offensive—the very odor oftentimes revealing the nature of the disease, and showing how far it has progressed. This offensive discharge is present at one time or another in almost all cases of malignant disease of the uterus. The constitutional symptoms are usually well marked in the progress of the disease. “ The cancerous cachexia,3 which is absent in only some few in- stances of epithelial carcinoma where death takes place from pure loss of blood, is something more than the mere anaemia produced by hemorrhage, or by the exhaustion which follows protracted suffering. ‘The fount of all the blood is touched corruptedlyfood does not nourish, the strength fails, the body wastes, the stomach refuses to perform its proper functions, nausea distresses the patient, or sickness wears her, and the red, raw, glazed, or aphthous tongue indicates but too clearly the state of the digestive mucous membrane, and explains the urgency of that thirst which drink cannot quench, which it is often scarcely able to allay.” “The sleep is always disturbed and unrefreshing; opiates indeed may relieve the pain, but they often aggravate the other ailments; the patient feels too ill to sleep, or, if she dozes, the parched mouth and burning throat awake her, or else the sense of utter pros- tration and exhaustion, and the sufferer returns to consciousness with the West, Diseases of Women. 2 Ibid. 3 Ibid.