937 SCROFULO-TUBERCULOUS AFFECTIONS OF BONES. a case, to immobilize the limb in a splint, or better still in a plaster dressing. I can count a number of successes obtained in this manner and under these conditions. It is possible in some cases, even in the knee, to have success after gouging through the articular cartilage and opening the joint. But for this it is necessary that the diseased part should be quite limited, and that its presence should not have provoked grave inflammatory impairment of the neighboring articulation. Such cases are rare. It is almost always necessary to have recourse to a complete resection of the joint. But when the primary or secondary osteopathy is continuous with an arthritis—when, in fact, there is present an ordinary white swelling, a fungous panarthritis— there can be no thought of anything but resection or amputation. As resection preserves the functions of the limb, when it is done properly, according to the principles of the sub-periosteal method, it ought to be pre- ferred to other conservative operations for joints the mobility of which is their predominating advantage, and a fortiori to amputation. “For white swellings of the elbow and shoulder,” says M. Ollier, “ it is better to resect as soon as the joint contains pus, even before the opening of the abscess.” Such is the rule for the upper limb. In the lower limb, on the contrary, solidity of the joint, anchylosis, being more advantageous than mobility, there.is less urgency for having recourse to resection. One should not resolve upon this operation until after having exhausted all the measures capable of procuring recovery with anchylosis: revulsion, superficial and penetrating cauterization with the hot iron, arthrotomy with the hot knife, breaming of the joint, and always immobilization. And, finally, when resection is prac- tised in the lower limb, the surgeon should always aim to favor, either by the method of operating or by the after-treatment, the formation of solid anchylosis—bony, when it is possible—if not by osseous union of the resected bones, end to end, at least by the formation of peripheral periosteal bony layers, inclosing the bones in the manner of a ring. Expectation secures, in the well-to-do classes, excellent results, even in cases of suppurative inflammations of the hip and knee. In Germany and in England, after having practised resections of the hip and of the knee to excess, there is a return to those principles of conservatism from which we have never departed in France, at Lyons less than elsewhere, where the memory of Bonnet is kept alive. Therefore, in the lower limb, the rule is never to resect until after all the resources of conservatism and bloodless treatment have been exhausted. Independently of these physiological considerations, the choice between resection and other methods of intervention ought to be suggested by the general condition of the patient and his social position. Amputation, of which I have not spoken yet, is an extreme measure, to which we resort less and less, in proportion as we get the habit of resecting early (in the upper limb), and as by practising resection in a correct manner we are better able to derive from it the benefits which it is capabje of procuring. In my opinion, it is not fair to compare tuberculosis with cancer; be- cause quite often a cutaneous, osseous, or pulmonary tuberculosis is recovered from, whilst recovery never, or almost never, follows cancer. To extol ampu- tations and to practise them hastily, acting upon an erroneous analogy, is a surgical error deserving condemnation. The results of resections in the hands of my excellent teacher, Professor Ollier, have thoroughly convinced me that less is generally expected from this operation than it is able to give, and that it is going astray to attribute to the discovery of the tuberculous follicle and bacilli an exaggerated practical significance. There are degrees to the virus and to its malignity. Besides, in order to lead to the accept- ance oi so radical a kind of surgery, it should be possible to demonstrate