INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. 614 live tissue. The new-formed connective tissue is the principal seat of the pro- liferation, which is not due, as Billroth says, to a croupous exudation around the spermatic canals. The increase in size and the nuclear division of the corpuscles of the connective tissue are well seen. At a later period the nodo- sities suffer fatty degeneration; a large collection of fat and granular corpus- cles, at first large and then smaller, form in the centre, but, owing to the quantity of fibrous tissue present, the yellow masses are compact, dry, firm, and not soft like tubercular deposits. When the interstitial connective-tissue mass is young, soft, and vascular, it may easily be mistaken for tubercular or sarcomatous matter. Syphilitic orchitis, whether it cause simple induration, or a gumma, is an im- portant complaint, as in bad cases it leads to a suspension of the secretion of spermatozoa on the affected side; but when the disease is partial, spermatozoa are still formed by the sound portion of the testicle. The yellow deposit is not vascular, the fluid used to inject the testicle stopping at the mass. At times, but very rarely, ulceration takes place, and gives rise to a benign fungus or hernia testis. According to Rindfleiscli, the syphilitic inflammation takes place in the connective tissue, and is followed by its fibrous condensation. The fibrous bands are conoidal in shape, with their bases at the thickened tunica albu- ginea, and their apices at the corpus Ilighmorianum. In the fibroid mass syphilitic gummata are formed; nodules, about the size of cherry-stones, being scattered throughout it. The corpuscular elements of the connective tissue proliferate, and then suffer fatty degeneration, but the intervening fibrous tissue persists, and gives the formation a tough consistency. Microscopic Appearances.—On examining the testicle which furnished the microscopic specimen from which the accompanying drawing (Plate XXX V"., Fig. 9) was made, it will be seen that it has become the seat of syphilitic infiltration, the whole gland being filled with fibrous tissue and with small round cells:— In those parts which have been lately invaded, the fibrous tissue is disposed in narrow bands, with a large number of round cells on every side of them, and no part of the inguinal gland substance can be seen. This young tissue is well supplied with blood- vessels. In the older growth the bands of fibrous tissue have bcome larger, and the small cells much fewer in number, while the bloodvessels have become nearly occluded by a fibrous growth which appears to have grown inwards from their walls. In parts further advanced, there is nothing to be found but dense fibrous tissue with a few round cells, the vessels having entirely disappeared. It is a curious fact that the formation of fibrous tissue in its different stages is not confined to the testicle, exactly similar appearances being found in the brain; and it is impossible, on examining this new growth, to decide whether the specimen under the microscope is taken from the brain or the testis. The symptoms of syphilitic sarcocele are unfortunately so slight that the patient either fails to notice the increase in size of the testicle, or neglects to report it to the surgeon; it is so at the commencement of the attack, and the relapses, which are far from uncommon, are neglected in the same way, much to the detriment of the organ. The symptoms come on gradually, with increase in the size of the testicle, which feels hard to the touch, and can be readily distinguished from the epididymis which is generally free from any deposit. If the disease progresses, the testicle becomes as large as a closed fist, oval in shape, and flattened from side to side. The surface of the gland may be smooth, or bossy from the presence of hard nodules. When these are deep in the substance of the testicle, they escape detection, but when situated on its surface or on the tunica albuginea, they may be readily felt as hard, shot-like deposits, or the gland feels of unequal