OPERATIONS FOR OVARIAN AND UTERINE TUMORS. 829 formance, and its first success, to Dr. Ephraim McDowell, of Kentucky. This bold and resolute surgeon matured all the steps of the operation before- hand ; and with such imperfect assistance as he could obtain, and without the aid of anaesthetics (which we deem indispensable), he removed a large polycystic ovarian tumor, and had the satisfaction of seeing his patient recover. This was in 1809; and the operation was not only successful, but the patient lived for twenty-five years subsequently. After this McDowell oper- ated thirteen times, with eight recoveries and five deaths; and his name and fame, beyond all others, should be honored as those of the pioneer in ovari- otomy. A condensed and well-written summary of the history of this opera- tion, and of its progress in different countries, will be found in Dr. T. Gaillard Thomas’s classical work,1 to which the reader is referred for many interesting items which cannot here be reproduced. In this country, within the present and past generations, Kimball, Atlee, Peaslee, Thomas, Goodell, and Homans have contributed most largely by pre- cept and example to the perfecting of ovariotomy, and to establishing it in the confidence of the profession. In Great Britain, similar and illustrious service has been rendered by Baker Brown, Wells, Keith, Thornton, Bantock, and Lawson Tait: while in Germany, where at first an invincible prejudice existed against it, some of the most brilliant successes on record have been obtained by Schroeder, Martin of Berlin, Billroth, Spiegelberg, Hofmeier, and Olshausen. In France, Italy, and the rest of Europe, ovariotomy has been less enthusiastically practised, and its records are more limited ; but it may safely be said that there is not a civilized country on the globe where it has not met with more or less success. Assuming that ovariotomy is contemplated in a given case, the two most important preliminaries are the decision when to operate, and the preparation of the patient. Sir Spencer Wells laid down the rule to wait until the gene- ral health of the patient should begin evidently to fail; and this injunction, supported by the immense weight of his name, and based upon the former large mortality of the operation and the uncertainty of success, was concurred in by Atlee and Peaslee, and still weighs like an incubus upon many a timid operator. But, since “ Listerism” and modern improvements in the technique of ovariotomy have enormously diminished this mortality, the generally ac- cepted rule is to operate as soon as the cyst has distinctly risen from the pelvis into the abdominal cavity. At this time the intestines that would otherwise underlie the abdominal incision are displaced by the tumor, the peritoneum is somewhat stretched and rendered insensitive, and we take advantage of the retained strength of the patient, which often turns the scale in her favor after the shock of a severe operation. When once the diagnosis is certain, there can be no gain in waiting longer in a disease that is inevit- ably fatal. It will of course be remembered that most women apply first for advice at this stage, as they then for the first time become aware of the existence of a “ lump” or tumor. The preparatory treatment is simple enough. Some surgeons, who have excellent success, pursue none at all. But, bearing in mind that the patient must preserve an enforced quiet in bed for a week or ten days, and that the bowels must not be moved during that time, it is wiser to give for a week previously a mild laxative each night—a mixture of sulphur and magnesia being the best—and for the last two or three days to give only broths, milk, and gruel as food; with this some mild tonic or a little stimulant may be Op. cit., pp. 722 et seq.