1033 CLUB-FOOT. The most instructive case published, in which excision of a portion of the tarsus was performed, will be found in the Transactions of the Royal Medical and Chirurgical So- ciety of London.1 In this case, that of a boy aged 12 years with relapsed congenital varus of both feet, tenotomy and mechanical treatment were lirst employed, but these methods were altogether mismanaged ; a properly constructed instrument was never used, and the plantar fascia, the tendon of the tibialis posticus muscle, and the tendo Achillis were divided at the same time. The chief interest of this case, however, lies in the fact that an enormous amount of the foot was removed before the deformity could be reduced; the cuboid, nearly all the scaphoid, portions of the three cuneiform bones, of the astragalus, of the os calcis, and of the two outer metatarsal bones were taken away, and even after this free excision of the bones of the foot, prolonged mechanical treatment was found necessary to keep what remained of the member in the required position. The number of cases of club-foot which have been treated by excision of the tarsus may probably be numbered by tens: those treated according to the rules of orthopaedic surgery can certainly he counted in thousands; of the former, two deaths have been recorded as resulting from the operations performed ; of the latter, none have terminated fatally, nor has any complica- tion of a serious nature been a source of trouble. A reference to the reports of several cases in which excision of the tarsus has been performed, after tenotomy had failed to relieve the condition of varus, shows clearly that the deformity had proved to he intractable under a course of treatment which had been followed without regard to the established rules of practice. The error most frequently committed is that of dividing the Achilles tendon alone ; also, in a large number of cases, the tendon of the tibialis anticus muscle is divided, but not that of the tibialis posticus ; either no attempt is made to relieve the contraction of this muscle, or else the tendon is missed when performing the operation. Another fruitful source of failure is want of attention in conducting the mechanical treatment of the deformity after operation; it cannot be too strongly insisted upon that, in the reduction of club-foot, the operative treatment is of quite secondary importance to the mechanical, and that however skilfully tenotomy may be performed, a suc- cessful result will never be obtained unless the after-treatment be most care- fully conducted. The following case is an example of congenital varus in which tenotomy was had re- course to without relief, and in which, the deformity being thereupon pronounced to be intractable to milder measures, the tarsus was ex- cised. W. H., aged 4, applied in the year 1879 to the Surgical Aid Society of London for a walking-instrument to correct a condition of varus of the right foot, for which he had been treated at one of the leading general hospitals from which he was just discharged. Fig. 1486, which is copied from a cast taken at the time, shows the condition of the foot; there were numer- ous scars of punctures over the tibialis anticus, tibialis posticus, and Achilles tendons, and on the outer side of the foot, below and in front of the external malleolus, was another scar about two inches long; this scar, which is marked A, is not well shown in the drawing, since, although it is indicated on the cast, it was but imperfectly copied by the plaster. The mother stated that the child had undergone several operations, and that finally some of the bones of the foot had been removed; as will be seen, a considerable degree 1 Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. lx. Fig. 1486. Relapsed yarns after excision of tarsus.