1030 ORTHOPAEDIC SURGERY. ing of the muscular fibres has become confirmed, can only he relieved by section of the tendons; but in cases which are submitted to treatment in the early stage of the affection, mechanical and physiological methods are suffi- cient to overcome the distortion. Extension in Treatment of Club-Foot.—In the two varieties of club-foot hither- to considered—talipes equinus and talipes varus—there is always present in severe cases of deformity a marked condition of structural shortening of the foot, with contraction of the plantar fascia ; during the mechanical stage of treatment, the foot, in order to overcome this shortening, may he kept in a state of extension by drawing the forepart well forward on the sole-plate after the heel has been fixed, but with adult cases, where there is always great resistance to extension, some difficulty is found in retaining the foot in the required position. In order to effectually maintain a state of constant stretching, I have employed a shoe which is a modification of Adams’s in- strument. Fig. 1480 shows the under surface of this appliance; the sole- plate is divided at a point corresponding to the transverse tarsal joint, and is supplied with three cog-wheels, A, E, C, which respectively permit of the Fig. 1480. Extension-shoe for club-foot front part of the plate being moved laterally, raised, and rotated on the heel- piece ; the power of extension is gained by the long screw _D, on turning which the front plate slides forwards. In using the instrument, it must first be adapted to the condition of deformity by means of the cog-wheels in the sole-plate; it is then applied to the limb, being secured in the ordinary man- ner, and the front part of the foot is extended on the heel by turning the screw D. The patient is directly conscious of the stretching of the foot thus obtained* as he feels the foot give at the transverse tarsal joint, and he will Fig. 1481. Fig. 1482. Severe equinus, before and after treatment. be able to guide the surgeon in deciding how much extension it is desirable to use, this being to a degree just short of causing pain; having thus ex- tended the foot, the front plate is next raised, rotated, and everted according to the necessities of the case under treatment. I have used this instrument