673 MODES OF EXPLORATION. senting some advantages, and the instrument may be used in all eases to which that is adapted, while it is less fatiguing to the person holding it, because of the form of the handle. There are also four metallic plates, differing in size, and a handle to which any one of these may be fastened, and by this means the anterior vaginal wall is lifted out of the way. The patient usually occupies the dorso-sacral position when the Simon speculum is used; one assistant holds the speculum, drawing the posterior vaginal wall and peri- neum downward, while another assistant draws upon the handle to which one of the plates has been fastened, this being placed upon the anterior vaginal wall. In some cases it is necessary to use retractors also for the lateral walls of the vagina, and then two more assistants are required, one for each side. Undoubtedly, when examinations are made in the dorso- sacral position, Simon’s instruments are invaluable, and so too they prove very useful in operations for genito-urinary listuke. Mensuration.—This is effected with the patient lying down, and an ordi- nary tape-measure may be used ; the bowels and bladder should have been recently emptied. By mensuration we learn the rate of increase of an abdo- minal growth, as well as its size; and whether it is situated in the upper or lower part of the abdominal cavity, or in one or the other side. The measurements usually taken are the circumference at the umbilicus, the dis- tance from the latter to the ensiform cartilage, to the pubic symphysis and to the anterior superior spinous processes of the ilium on each side, and from these points to the ensiform cartilage. In the differential diagnosis of ascites and cystic disease of the ovary, it is to be noted that the abdominal circum- ference is in the former affection greatest at the umbilicus, while in the latter it is in most cases greatest at a somewhat lower point. Auscultation.—The abdomen should be uncovered, and the patient should ccupy the dorsal position when auscultation is practised; on many accounts it is better to use a stethoscope than to apply the ear directly to the abdomen. The value of auscultation in determining the presence of pregnancy, by dis- tinct recognition of the sounds of the foetal heart, cannot be over-estimated, whether the abdominal enlargement is due solely to this condition, or whether it is only a complication. The sound of next importance heard in auscultating the abdomen of a pregnant woman, is the uterine souffle. But this souffle may be heard when the uterus is enlarged from other causes, though not in all instances; thus in uterine tumors it is heard in half the cases, furnishing a probability in favor of a tumor being uterine rather than ovarian. A similar souffle has been heard exceptionally in some cases of ovarian tumor, in a retro-uterine tumor (Winckel),_in tumors of the spleen (Winckel, Vir- chow, Ilirschfeld), and in cancer of the liver (Leopold). Friction sounds caused by the movements of the roughened peritoneal surface may in some cases be heard ; in some, as, for example, where an ovarian tumor is of great size and where inflammation of the peritoneum has occurred, crepitus may be detected by palpation ; this may also result from the presence of papillary excrescences. Metallic tinkling has, according to Schroeder, been heard where there has been a pelvic exudation communicating with the intestine, and in ovarian tumors in which a formation of gas has occurred. In diagnosing between cystic ovarian disease and ascites, it is to be remem- bered that the aortic sound and impulse are transmitted by the former, but not by the latter. Percussion.—This is usually practised with the patient in the dorsal posi- tion, though it is often necessary to make her turn to one and then to the vol. vi.—43