URINARY CALCULUS. 154 One curious means by which water may prove indirectly to be a source of stone formation, is suggested by a recent contribution on the formation of calculi, by Zancarol,1 surgeon to the Greek Hospital at Alexandria, Egypt, hie says that the natives drink unfiltered Kile water, and imbibe the distoma hematobium, and that the animal and its ova can always be found in the urine and among the layers of stone in the case of the natives, who suffer frequently from calculous disorder. The foreigners, who only drink filtered Kile water, do not often have stone, and their urine does not contain the dis- toma or its ova. Sex has undoubtedly an influence upon the frequency of vesical, but not of renal, calculus. Absence of the prostate, the large size and shortness of the female urethra, and the comparative freedom of women from urethral diseases and vesical catarrh, are sufficient almost to secure them immunity. Coulson estimates the relative frequency of stone in females as compared with males at 5 per cent. Front makes it about the same. Klein, in Russia, puts it at a little over one-fifth of one per cent. Secondary phosphatic stones forming upon foreign bodies introduced from without, seem to be, relatively to the whole number of cases, more common in the female than in the male. Race sCems to influence stone formation. Gross,2 analyzing the lithotomies reported in some of our Southern States, found the proportion to be one in a negro to six in whites. Rayer says that the negro escapes in Egypt, while the Arab suffers. Mastin3 collected 3039 lithotomies in America, and found only 102 put down to the negro, and 31 to the mulatto. Mastin says that gout is seldom if ever seen among the black people of the United States, and he quotes Winterbottom as vouching for the same fact in regard to the native Africans around Sierra Leone. Climate.—Statistics indicate that climate alone does not influence stone formation. Temperate zones seem to be most afflicted, yet the cold winds of the Himalayas, and the gales at Norwich, have been accused of contribut- ing to the calculous tendencies of those regions. The central districts of the United States, however, are not especially windy ; in France, Civiale found the proportion of cases in the Var district the same inland and on the coast. The New England coast is subject to dampness and boisterous northeasterly gales, yet stone is infrequent there. Social Condition, Harits, and Occupation.—These are not prominent etiological factors of stone. Civiale affirms this for France. Soldiers and sailors are reported by all who have given attention to their statistics to be remarkably free from stone, but most soldiers and sailors are between the ages of 20 and 40, and in good general health. Undoubtedly there are more stone cases among the poor than among the wealthy, but the latter class is comparatively small, and nearly all cases of the poor go to hospitals for operation, where they are sure to be recorded, while the wealthy escape tabulation to a certain extent. In New York there is very little tendency to stone formation. During fourteen years’ active surgical work in two of the largest city hospitals (Charity and Bellevue), I have found in my service only two cases of stone. The cases which I have operated upon in hospital have been sent in by myself. Most of my operations have been done in private life. 1 Rev. de Chir., 10 Aout, 1882, p. 645. ! Op. cit., p. 168. 3 Loc. cit., p. 618.