605' ORCHITIS. account of some interesting experiments, made by injecting an irritating fluid into the urethrae of dogs, which illustrated the pathological anatomy of blen- norrhagic epididymitis. In man, observers have noted at the origin of the ejaculatory ducts redness and vascularization, and in the vas deferens redness and purulent fluid. The tunica vaginalis, which contains purulent fluid, is thickened, and the surrounding cellular tissue is inflamed. In dogs, four degrees of inflammation of the deferent canals are noted: (1) the mucous membrane is alone affected; the epithelial cells are altered, being swollen, granular, and in places wanting or deprived of their cilia. The vas deferens is not swollen, as there may be inflammation of its mucous membrane without swelling. (2) The mucous membrane is affected, and the wall oedematous and infiltrated with white blood-corpuscles. (3) Deferentitis, or as M. Terril- lon prefers to call it “peri-deferentite,” may exist, the periphery of the canal being infiltrated with serum mixed with white blood-corpuscles. (4) When the inflammation is intense, the liquid is greenish-yellow and contains many white blood-corpuscles and large granular fat-globules. The semen contains- spermatozoa during the attack ; the swelling of the epididymis is partial and affects the tail, which is of a greenish-yellow color. The canals of the epidi- dymis are doubled and trebled in volume, and present cavities like abscess- cavities filled with pus. The epithelial cells lose their cilia and desquamate ;. the walls are red and infiltrated, and the inflammation extends to the cellular tissue. The swelling of the epididymis is more apparent than real, as it is in reality hardly doubled in volume; it contains spermatozoa; the surround- ing cellular tissue is swollen, and the tunica vaginalis is inflamed. The testicle is a little indurated and increased in size, but is not inflamed to any extent. M. Gosselin found a deposit of plastic matter in the cavity and in the walls- of the convoluted duct. This matter consisted of fat-granules, granular glo- bules of inflammation, and globules of pus ; tlie connective tissue was free from deposit. Inflammation of the testicle itself is rare, and may give rise to suppura- tion ; when this occurs it is of consequence, as the pus is confined by the strong fibrous tunica albuginea, and will burrow among the seminal tubes and unravel them ; and when evacuated by an incision into the tubes, may escape by the same opening and lead to the destruction of the gland. M. Depres1 contends that orchitis is tine to retention of semen in the testicle from some obstruction to its escape by swelling of the mucous membrane of the ejaculatory ducts, of the vas deferens, or of the prostatic urethra. Tie says that seminal engorgements rarely lead to suppuration. M. Verneuil2 protests against the opinion so generally held that an orchi- tis can be produced by a strain. Velpeau and Gerdy both agreed that it could be so produced, as vascular congestion follows the compression of the cord by the abdominal muscles. Verneuil says that the testicle must already have been affected or predisposed. A strong Covent Garden laborer applied at King’s College Hospital, suffering from orchitis of the left testicle, which he attributed, and apparently with good reason, to the pressure of the abdominal muscles on the cord as it passed through them. He was in the habit of carrying very heavy loads on his left shoulder, and caused the orchitis, by “heaving them off,” so to speak, that is by making a violent muscular exertion. A student, when exercising on the parallel bars, was suddenly seized with acute orchitis, which was soon followed by effusion into the tunica vaginalis. He was posi- tive that he had received no blow. The testicle may be drawn up to, and compressed against, the ring by spas- modic contraction of the cremaster muscle (Tillaux). Beside inflammatory 1 Union Medicate, t. xxvi. 2 Le Praticien, 24 Fev. 1879.