283 LITHOTOMY. 13. Pyelo-nephritis, the surgical kidney, is one of the possible sequences of lithotomy. It is announced by a chill, followed by others at varying inter- vals ; pain in the back, on one or both sides; high temperature, going some- what up and down morning and evening, and interspersed with periods ot more or less profuse sweating. The tongue becomes first sticky and coated, then dry and brown, or perhaps glazed, dry, red, and deprived of epithelium over its tip and central parts. The flow of urine varies greatly in many cases from day to day, being sometimes over-abundant, and then being quickly re- duced in quantity almost to suppression. [Nausea, lack of desire or ability to eat, and hiccough, accompany the later stages of this fatal complication, with delirium, sometimes mild and wandering, with picking at the bed- clothes, and sometimes attended by considerable excitement. The patient dies generally with urinary suppression and from uraemia, usually with a very high temperature. The use of morphine, with such sustaining and stimulat- ing articles as the patient can he made to take, and hot local applications, constitute the treatment, and give all the comfort that can be afforded. My belief is, that this form of kidney-disease, with inflammation of the pelvis, multiple abscesses, and colonies of bacteria in the renal substance, is necessarily fatal. Symptoms resembling those produced by these lesions may occur, and yet the patient recover; but I believe that, in such cases, true pyelo-nephritis has not been the cause of the symptoms. This complication is not likely to occur except in cases in which the kidneys have been diseased in a chronic inflammatory way before the operation. Old men suffering from long-standing chronic vesical disease, in whom the ureter as well as the pelvis of the kidney is dilated and chronically inflamed, are, of all others, most liable to this complication. It is, according to my experi- ence, the most common of all fatal complications after lithotrity or lithotomy in old men. 14. Peritonitis.—This complication may follow lithotomy directly, as a result of perforation of the bladder by the staff' or the scalpel; or by a lesion of the peritoneal cul-de-sac, when the latter extends very low down and the deep incision reaches too far at the base of the prostate. Urinary infiltration is the main cause of the mischief in these cases, which are nearly always fatal, although probably not always, for the free drainage may occasionally save the patient. As a secondary complication of inter- stitial cystitis, pelvic cellulitis, phlebitis, etc., the peritonitis forms part of the general process, aggravating and intensifying it, but not in itself materi- ally adding to the gravity of the more important surgical complications of which it forms a part. The indication in peritonitis is the free exhibition of morphine subcutaneously. 15. Tetanus has been recorded as a cause of death after lithotomy. (3) Possible after-effects of Perineal Lithotomy.— 1. Incontinence of Urine.—This sequence of lithotomy is happily rare. It is most common in young subjects, but in them may gradually disappear with lapse of time. When it occurs in an old man it is generally rebellious to all subsequent treatment. It is usually caused by violence (laceration, etc.), done to the neck of the bladder during rough efforts at extracting a large stone, where the internal incision is not sufficiently extensive. The treatment is to try cauterization of the vesical neck (Thompson records one success by this method), and, failing in this, to resort to a urinal. Generally at night, when the patient is recumbent, the incontinence is less marked than during the day. 2 and 3, Impotence and Sterility.—The latter of these two complications—-