1183 HISTORY OF SURGERY. ““Grande Chirurgie,” which he styled Inventarium, sive Collectorium Artis Chirurgicalis Medicince, in the year 1365. lie was then ripe in years, pos- sessed of immense erudition, of ample experience, of mature judgment, of nobility of mind, and of singular purity of principles.1 Guido revived the use of the trephine. He is the earliest surgical writer who mentions the Caesarean operation, which, however, he advises to be resorted to only after the death of the mother, solely to save the life of the infant. Portal2 sums up his account of this old master in the following words: “Finally, it may be averred that Guy de Chauliac had said nearly everything which modern surgeons say, and that his work is of infinite value, but, unfortunately, too little read, too little pondered. He described many instruments, among others a forceps for the ligation of arteries.” Renouard3 says, “ The work of Guy de Chauliac became very soon the surgical code of Europe; translated and com- mented upon in all tongues, and reproduced under different forms, it was for a long time classic, and still preserves its interest, as representing the state of science at the close of the middle ages. He has written, moreover, in a clear, concise, and even picturesque style, very superior to the barbarous Latin of most of the writers of his time.” Space will not admit the mention of all the surgical writers of this in- teresting period. Roger, Rolland, Brunus, Theodoric, and others, have left more or less complete treatises on surgery which are still extant. They contain nothing more, but rather less, than is to be found in the works already referred to. The revival of anatomical study, directly from the cadaver, in the early part of the fourteenth century, by the lectures, demonstrations, and writings of Mundinus of Bologna, was an event of momentous importance in its re- lations to the improvement and progress of surgery. Anatomy is to surgery what sailing charts are to navigation. Surgery was not as much indebted, however, to the teaching of Mondino himself, as to that of those who followed in his wake, Alexander Achillini, Nicholas Massa, Carpus, Dryander, and in later times, the more brilliant train, among whom were Sylvius, Winters, Vesalius, Columbus, Fabricius ab Acquapendente, Harvey, and many others. Surgery previous to the beginning and middle of the fourteenth century must have been well nigh extinct in England. The first writers on this subject, of whom we have any knowledge, were Gilbertus Anglicus, John of Gaddesden, and John Ardern. The two former did not attempt to write complete treatises upon surgery, but mixed what they had to say on the subject with all sorts of things relating to the healing art. One looks in vain through the Compendium totius Medicince of Gilbertus, or the Rosa Anglica of Joannes, to find much that would enlighten a student of surgery even in that shadowy age. What they contain is little more than a confused mass of extracts from Arabic surgical writers, together with recipes of questionable value, odd formulte, and an endless array of apocry- phal and superstitious remedies, among which amulets and charms occupy a conspicuous position. Guy de Chauliac, a contemporary of whom I have already spoken, and one of incomparable worth, thus speaks of the famous “ Rosa Anglica” of Gaddesden. “ Finally appeared a pale English rose, which was sent to me, and I perused it. I did hope to find in it sweetness of per- fume, but I only found the fables of the Spaniard Gilbert and of Theodoras.” “ Maister Arderne” seems to have been the first surgical writer of England 1 See my sketch of Guy de Chauliac, in Annals of Anat. and Surg., vol. ii., 1880, p. 419 et seq. 2 Hist, de l’Anat. et de la Chirurg., tome v. 3 Op. cit., p. 284.