VITAL AND ORGANIC LESIONS OF THE URETHRA. 465 with the affected parts. A few light cauterizations may cause this hindrance to disappear, and may render easy a dilatation previously impossible. Lateral cauterization, devised by Whately, was chiefly put into practice by Ducamp, and then perfected by Lallemand, Segalas, and some other surgeons. It consists in acting upon the stricture, not from before backwards, but from within outwards. This method, besides the fact that it is applicable only to not very tight strictures, has the great drawback of acting only by pro- ducing a loss of substance, and thus transforming a simple inflammatory stricture into one which is cicatricial, and still more contractile than the first. Certain authors, charging to the account of the substance employed the almost constant failure of cauterization, have proposed to replace the nitrate of silver with caustic potassa, on the hypothesis that alkaline or neutral cicatrices alone could secure, on account of their softness, a durable cure. This idea has been the point of departure for a new method of cauterization, by the chemical galvano-cautery. This method, which, in reality, differs little from urethrotomy, and the conditions of application of which have been prin- cipally formulated by Mallez and Tripier, appears to have given a certain number of successes ; but it requires machinery complicated and hard to manage, and, equally with the other procedures, it exposes the patient to a relapse after a short interval. In conclusion, cauterization should not constitute a general method of treatment. It may be employed in certain determined cases, but only as auxiliary to dilatation. It should never be deep and destructive, and the preference should be given to cauterization practised from before backwards. (2) Dilatation.-—-We have seen that the older surgeons, at the same time that they attempted to destroy, with the help of cauterization, the so-called carnosities which they considered the most ordinary cause of dysuria, intro- duced into the canal bougies, lead sounds, etc., and thus effected dilatation without knowing it. This method, however, did not immediately succeed the knowledge of the lesions which constitute strictures, and for nearly a century escharotic and medicated bougies were still employed. Benvoli first, in 1724, elevated the treatment of strictures by dilatation to a method, and his practice was followed by Col de Villars, Astruc, and a large number of other surgeons. Finally, Hunter formulated better than had been done before him the anatomical characteristics of strictures, and the mode of action of bougies. There are two methods of dilatation ; one inflammatory, the other mechani- cal. The first includes atrophic dilatation and ulcerative dilatation. The second includes forced catheterization and all the procedures of rapid dilatation. 1. Inflammatory Dilatation.—Voillemier has given this name to a series of organic phenomena which are provoked in the walls of the urethra by the contact of a foreign body, and which lead to atrophy and resorption of the parts constituting the stricture. When a foreign body is introduced into the midst of the tissues, it sets up there a series of actions which tend to its elimi- nation. There is at first an irritation, expressed by contracture and spasm, and soon followed by more or less marked relaxation. Then follow other phenomena, more slow, more continuous, and more profound. The blood flows into the vessels; new ones are developed, which invade and rarefy the tissues; and around the foreign body a pyogenic membrane is organized, which seems to retire before it to make room for the pus which it everywhere secretes. The introduction of a hougie into a stricture, which it fills without causing laceration, is accompanied by absolutely analogous phenomena. There is felt, at the end of a few minutes, a certain difficulty in withdrawing the instrument. Soon the spasm disappears, and movement of the hougie be- comes easy again. Afterwards a muco-purulent discharge is established in VOL. vi. —30