197 SOLVENT TREATMENT OF STONE. probably mucus, and a little scratching of the mucous membrane by tbe sharp points of crystals, or irritation by concentrated urine, is sufficient to call out enough mucus to act as a colloid and determine the character of the crystals. Hence all efforts to make the urine bland and abundant are justified on purely scientific grounds. But the question is, Does any substance exist which militates directly against stone formation, either by reducing the colloids or preventing their action? To this no answer can be given, but a substanc'e has of late been brought before the notice of the profession, which perhaps acts in this way. I refer to tbe fluid extract of hydrangea which has been mentioned during the past few years a number of times in the American medical weeklies, as an agent calculated to arrest paroxysms of renal colic, and even to relieve them when present. My experience with this drug is limited, but I think that I have seen some slight advantage follow its use in half-drachm or drachm doses after meals. Cider also, as an habitual drink, has given good results in my experience. The cider need not be absolutely sweet; ordinary bottled cider answers all purposes, or even cider which is slightly hard. Electrolytic Treatment of Stone. That the electric current influences crystallization has long been known. Ord states that magnetic currents cause oxalate of lime crystals to reach an unusually large size, and refers to Bridgman as asserting that submorphous forms of crystals (colloidal) appear sooner under a mild galvanic current than they would otherwise do in the same liquid. The construction of stone may thus be aided by electricity, and disintegration of calculi has been effected by the same agency. Bouvier-Demortiers first thought of dissolving stones with the voltaic pile, and Gruithuisen, in 1813, found experimentally in the laboratory that with platinum points and a number of elements stones might be pierced by this means. In 1823, Dumas and Prevost1 found that, a fusible calculus of 92 grains, under the action of a pile of 120 couples, recharged hourly, lost 12 grains in 12 hours, and after 28 hours became a friable mass which ■crumbled on the slightest pressure. They experimented on a dog, and found that the process could be conducted without injuring the bladder. They then experimented in the human bladder, but, with negative results, since uric-acid calculi, being formed of one substance, were not suitable for voltaic dissolu- tion. Dumas and Prevost injected into the bladder a solution of nitrate of potassium, hoping to make by electrolytic action a soluble urate of potassium, but the experiment proved negative. Leroy d’Etiolles followed up these attempts, but came to negative con- clusions. Bence Jones did the same, in England, in 1852. Erekmann,2 under the auspices of Dr. Raymond, announces some successful experiments. Leroy d’Etiolles (fils),3 who saw the patients of Erekmann, does not con- sider the facts conclusive or the cases established, and to-day electrical litho- malaxy has no recognized place among the legitimate operations for stone. Solvent Treatment of Stone. Pliny4 speaks of the ashes of snail-shells as a proper solvent for stone. Hippocrates and Galen do not appear to have had confidence in any sub- * Annates de Cliimie et de Physique, Join et Juillet, 1823. 2 La lithonialakie electrique. Paris, 1863. 3 Op. cit., p. 540. 4 Hist. Nat., lib. xxx. cap. viii.