APPENDIX. 1178 cal school. Thus we find it stated that it was originated by the fugitives from Alexandria, on the capture of that city by the Saracens, A. 1). 640. Again, that it was founded by Charlemagne in the year 802. Perhaps we shall lie unable to approximate nearer to the truth than by saying that physi- cians, and even medical teachers,flourished at Salerno as earl}7 as the seventh century, but that the establishment of a regularly organized school of medi- cine was brought about by the Benedictines of Monte Casino, in the ninth or early part of the tenth century. In the year 984, Adalberon II., Archbishop of Verdun, visited Salernum in order to be treated for stone in the bladder. We are only told that the result was fatal. The earliest medical treatises which emanated from this school date back to about 1035-40. In these there is no evidence of an acquaintance with the medical science of the Arabians. Galen, Oribasius, and Aetius were the principal sources from which they were compiled. At about the close of the eleventh century, Peter the Hermit aroused all Europe by his vehement preaching, the Crusade re- sulted, vast armies or rather swarms of religious zealots and fanatics pushed on to the Holy Land, sharp and deadly conflicts ensued, wounds numberless were inflicted, and as Salernum, a famous medical and surgical resort, lay in the line of pilgrimage between the west and east, it was most natural that the leading Crusaders who were disabled by wounds should resort thither to obtain the benefits of renowned physicians and surgeons. Robert of Normandy, eldest son of William the Conqueror, on his return from the Holy Land, being afflicted with a fistulous ulceration of the arm, resulting from a poisoned arrow-wound received at the siege of Jerusalem, A. D. 1099, betook himself to Salernum, where his beautiful bride Sybilla, as the romantic tales relate, drew the poison from his wound with her own lips, when her husband was unconscious during sleep, and thus saved his life. While Robert was at Salernum, William II. (Rufus) died, and the throne of England was soon after occupied by Henry, the younger brother of this distinguished patient. During the sojourn of Robert at this famous sanitarium, or, perhaps, as he was about to quit it for England, John of Milan, who we are told then presided over the medical faculty of Salernum, is presumed to have written the health-poem which was destined to become so famous, to survive so many centuries, to be transmitted by numberless transcripts and manu- scripts until the printer’s art should be invented, and then in many lan- guages, and in not less than one hundred and fifty editions—and some add a hundred more to these—to be scattered broadcast over the land, and to be floated down the stream of time to the present moment. The fame of this poem is truly wonderful. It is little more than an epitome of rules of diet, regimen, and hygiene, as understood in that day. Many of its wise saws are still repeated in the identical words of the poem, though few are aware of their origin and antiquity. The poem is known by many titles, Regimen Sanitatis Hale,mi; Schola Halernitana ; Medicina Salernitana ; Re Con- servanda Bona Valetudine; “Regimen,” “Regiment,” “ Code of Health,” etc. It was for ages the institute of the medical student and the text-book for learned professors. It was subjected to emendations and annotations, and was enlarged by exhaustive commentaries and erudite scholia. The school of Salernum seems to have added nothing to the previously existing knowl- edge of surgery, and has no interest or relation to the history of its science and art, excepting the mere fact that this was the earliest centre of medical instruction, in mediaeval times, where a knowledge of the ancient medical authors was taught, and a radiant point from which the science of the Greeks and Arabians was diffused in western and southern Europe, having been con- served and distributed by our own profession, quite independently of monas- teries and clergy.