518 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE URETHRA. the more important of which I shall refer when, after having described the clinical forms of urinary fever, I shall attempt to elucidate its pathogeny, which is. still obscure in a certain number of points. Symptomatology.—The symptomatic aspect in which urinary fever pre- sents itself is extremely varied, and the multiplicity of shapes which the affection may assume is one of the difficulties of its clinical study. Urinary fever is not a unit; it affects multiple clinical forms. Sometimes it shows itself by striking phenomena, breaking out suddenly, and generally of short duration : this is the acute form. Sometimes it takes a less active course, and then proceeds slowly, with less violent manifestations, sometimes even hardly appreciable: this is the chronic or slow form. But, again, in each of these two forms it is necessary to recognize different types, according to the appearance which the disease assumes. Thus the acute form of urinary fever includes three types: (1) Type with frank paroxysms; (2) Type with pernicious paroxysms; (3) Continuous-remittent type. The chronic or slow form is characterized by a febrile state, which is not very intense, but perma- nent, and with slight variations in the degree of the fever; it occurs as a pri- mary affection, or follows the acute form. The two varieties, acute and chronic,, may coincide in a single patient, and nothing is less rare than to see acute phe- nomena break out in a patient who for a longer or shorter time has shown symptoms of the chronic form. It is likewise comm'on to both forms to have phlegmons in peculiar situations, which frequently end in suppuration. Acute Form of Urinary Fever.—(1) Fever with frank paroxysms.—In this first type, urinary fever reveals itself suddenly by a febrile attack, a com- plete and well-marked paroxysm comprising the three classic stages: chill, fever, and sweating. Excited usually by a catheterization or by an operative procedure, or even appearing spontaneously in an individual who has an affection of the urinary passages, the frank attack always begins with a chill. The length and intensity of this chill are variable. It may last from some minutes to two or three hours; usually its duration varies between half an hour and three-quarters of an hour. Its intensity is almost always consider- able: simple sensations of cold are rare; ordinarily there are general trembling and chattering of the teeth. In exceptional cases cyanosis, coldness of the extremities, and extreme anxiety, may be observed. The stage of chill is immediately followed by a more or less well-marked stage of heat. In ordi- nary cases the eyes are brilliant, the skin dry and burning; the respiration, which is less anxious and fuller than in the preceding stage, is still hurried. All these phenomena diminish gradually. The skin, moist at first, is soon soaked with an abundant perspiration, which covers the entire body and may inundate the bed. This is the stage of sweating, which always terminates a frank attack. The patient, having become calm, says that he feels well. The attack is ended, leaving behind it only a little fatigue, which disappears after two or three days. From the outset of the urinary attack the thermometer mounts suddenly from 37° to 40° C. (98.6° to 104° F.), and even 41° C. (105.8° F.); when the attack is ended it sinks rapidly by a frank deferves- cence, and redescends, in twenty-four hours at most, sometimes in a few hours, to 37° C. However, even in this frank attack, things do not always pass so simply: there are certain complications which supervene, and which give the frank attack a special physiognomy, that it is important to be ac- quainted with in order not to go astray. It is proper to place in the first, rank nervous disturbances, usually manifest- ing themselves in the form of delirium : this delirium, sometimes wandering (sub-delirium), sometimes violent, usually begins during the stage of chill, but its appearance may be delayed till the stage of fever. It is without great prognostic importance. The frank attack of urinary fever is always accompa-