LITHOLAPAXY. 245 ill the receiving bottle. In such a case much better rendering will be effected by a succession of sharp, jerky, partial contractions of the bottle, so as to dislodge the accumulating fragments about the eye of the tube, only to stir up one or two, and to allow these to be sucked into the receiver. Occasionally an angular piece of stone will clog the eye of the tube, not large enough to prevent a reasonably free passage of fluid, but effectually blocking the way to any fragments larger than dust. Now again, the frag- ments rattle about the tube, but the washing gives no return. An experi- enced operator always recognizes this accident at once; an unobservant one may lose much time before he finds it out. When this accident occurs, a sharp gush of water sent suddenly through the tube will sometimes dislodge the fragment. Sometimes it will fail. Then the water should be drawn off*, the tube uncoupled, and a solid stylet passed to drive out the fragment into the bladder. This is safer than to withdraw the tube with the stone impacted in it, although the latter course is the one usually adopted, and, as a rule, no harm comes of the slight scratch- ing of the urethra which it occasions. Often, as the tube is moved from side to side, and particularly when the curved tube is inverted, the bladder-wall flaps with a sharp click against the eye of the tube, and then flutters spasmodically with dull thuds against the open end of the instrument. This suction of the bladder-wall into the eye of the instrument has never been known to do any harm, but it must bruise the organ somewhat, and its repetition should be avoided by shunning the particular manoeuvre which occasions it. When the bladder is empty, the sharp click given by the wall as it is sucked against the eye of the tube is often so hard in quality as to resemble the sound given by a fragment of considerable size. An operator not accustomed to the sound may be deceived in this way, and may go on indefinitely searching for a fragment which does not exist. Error may be avoided by noticing that the click may be produced at will by turning the tube in a given direction. A little experience teaches the operator all that can be known about this flut- tering of the bladder. Should air enter the bladder, it churns up the water needlessly, distends the bladder, and interferes with the efficiency of the wash, while it so confuses the sounds that the click of small fragments against the tube can no longer he clearly distinguished. To dislodge the air, the bladder should be fully distended, and then the handle of the tube strongly depressed between the thighs, so that its eye may be raised to the top of the bladder. While held in this position the rubber bulb is worked slowly, and the air escapes into the bottle, and remaining at its top can be discharged through the upper stopcock. After the fragments cease to collect in the receiver, the operator removes the tube, and hands the bottle and receiver to his assistant, who immediately pours out the water, more or less stained with blood, empties the fragments, and refills the bottle. While this is going on the operator has again intro- duced his lithot.rite, made a dozen or more seizures, and by the time the bottle is ready there is usually enough debris to call for another wash. In this way, by alternate crushings and washings, the fragments are steadily reduced in size and extracted. Search for last Fragment.—A last fragment is sought for by ausculta- tion during the process of washing. Every bubble of air is scrupulously removed from the bladder, and with a small tube—the bladder containing a little surplus of water, so that when the exhausting bottle is full the organ shall not be entirely empty—it is gently washed while the operator places