INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. 650 ing spasm and pain, especially as it passes over the prostatic urethra; this irritability is lessened by passing full-sized, soft, olive-pointed bougies, which may be allowed to remain for a short time, and in some instances by using a full-sized, metallic instrument. Cauterization of the 'prostatic urethra has been extensively practised since its introduction by M. Lallemand, who spoke highly of its merits. The instru- ment used is Lallemand’s well-known porte-caustique, armed with nitrate of silver. The application of this remedy causes some smarting and difficulty in passing urine, which is slightly tinged with blood ; this, however, passes off if the patient takes a warm bath and keeps quite quiet. A warm bath and an opium suppository will, as a rule, relieve retention of urine, should it occur owing to neglect of the injunction to remain quiet, to avoid stimu- lants, and to partake freely of bland fluids. The cauterization is not to be repeated more than two or three times, at intervals of six or eight weeks. After the irritation caused by the application has subsided, a full- sized soft bougie may be passed, to correct any tendency to contraction that may exist. Patients complain, sometimes, of a tearing sensation when an emission occurs after the application of the caustic. When used in suitable cases, Mr. Curling finds that “ it has rarely failed to afford more or less reliefit must not, however, be expected to ojterate like a charm, but is to be associated with other remedies. After its application, patients have had hemorrhage, shivering, and retention of urine, and even cystitis and stricture have occurred in some instances. Retention is most likely to follow if a stricture be present, and the other symptoms if the caustic be too freely ap- plied and quietude neglected. Instead of the application of the pure nitrate of silver, some use the salt diluted with nitrate of sodium to the desired strength. Some surgeons prefer to use a caustic solution. Diday1 injects a solution of twelve centigrammes in eight grammes of distilled water; Ivocher advocates a weaker solution, to be used more frequently; the solution may contain 1 centigramme to 30, 50, or 100 grammes of distilled water The fluid may be injected through a hollow sound, open at its end, by means of a suit- able syringe. When introduced into the bladder, the instrument allows urine to escape; it is then withdrawn into the urethra, when the fluid will cease to flow; as soon as the end has passed the tender spot in the prostatic ure- thra, the instrument is to be withdrawn no further, but a drachm of the caustic solution is to be projected into the passage and allowed to remain there for a few minutes. A slight burning sensation, which lasts for an hour or two, will be felt. The application of a caustic solution is very efficacious, and more exact, and in some respects safer, than the use of the caustic-holder, as the latter has been known to break and leave its end in the urethra. Other caustic and astringent solutions have been employed, but nitrate of silver is by far the most valuable. The electrical treatment of spermatorrhoea and impotency has. been much, advocated of late years. Duchenne recommended the application of inter- rupted currents (faradic) in some cases of spermatorrhoea. Mr. Curling has found this suggestion useful, especially in some cases of impotency, where the desires are strong but the erections feeble and non-persistent. Schulz2 and Benedict3 employ exclusively the constant current. Schulz applies the positive pole of a battery containing from 20 to 30 of Daniell’s elements to the spine, and the negative pole to the pubes or perineum; three or four 1 Annuaire de la Sypliilis, etc., 1858. 2 Wiener med. Wochensclir., No. 34. 1861. 3 Oesterr. Zeitschr. ffirprakt. Heilk. Bd. x. H. 3,4. 1864 ; and Electro-therapie, S. 446-99.