1009 CLUB-FOOT. may gradually increase until the foot can only be brought to a right angle with the leg, and still further, until a confirmed condition of extension of the foot to a greater or less degree is established. The character of this deformity is well shown in Fig. 1468, which exhibits an extreme degree of spasmodic equi- nus; the foot is fully extended upon the leg and the heel is raised, the toes are drawn up, and the arch of the foot is somewhat increased in depth; this case is illustrated in Mr. Adams’s work on club-foot,1 from which the drawing here given is copied. This case should be compared with that of paralytic equinus, Fig. 1466 ; in both the same part of the foot is placed on the ground, and the toes are drawn up to much the same extent, yet the differences in the distortion of the two feet are very marked. In the spasmodic variety the heel is raised, in the paralytic it is in its normal posi- tion ; in the former the foot is but slightly shortened, in the latter the sole is much contracted; in both the phalangeal extremities of the metatarsal bones are somewhat widened, and the forepart of the foot is abnormally broad. This variation in the nature of the two conditions of equinus, is due to the limb affected with paralysis being wanting in vitality in all its constituent parts: the bones are small, both in length and circumference; the fibrous tissue of the ligaments is defective in tenacity ; the skin is livid, and in cold weather purple in tint—all these defects being due to malnutrition and insufficient blood-supply. In spasmodic equinus no such general wasting occurs; there is increased contractility of the affected muscles, and there the mischief ceases ; the structures of the foot are therefore better able to bear the weight of the body than are the weakened tissues of the paralyzed limb. Other Forms of Equinus.—Talipes equinus occasionally results from other causes than those already described. A very similar condition to that of spasmodic equinus arises from local irritation of the extensor muscles of the foot; a wound or other injury of the calf, the formation of abscess in the same situation, reflex irritation of the muscles from rheumatic or other inflammation of the ankle-joint, may all be exciting causes of the deformity. Equinus may also arise from a wound of the anterior tibial nerve giving rise to paralysis of the flexor muscles of the foot; it may also be purely mechani- cal in its origin, as when the foot is kept for a long period in the extended position and permanent shortening of the extensor muscles becomes estab- lished ; again, extensive ulceration of the skin, or a severe burn, on the back of the leg, may induce the deformity. Such conditions must be regarded as spurious forms of the distortion; but a knowledge of the pathology and treatment of the typical conditions of equinus will greatly assist the surgeon in the management of such cases. Treatment of Talipes Equinus.—In entering upon the treatment of a case of talipes equinus, the surgeon has first to satisfy himself as to the original cause of distortion, and next to determine how far the deformity consists of changes in the shape of the foot itself, and what alteration has occurred in the normal relationship of the foot to the leg. The three characteristics of equinus have been noted as widening of the forepart of the foot, shortening of the sole with contraction of the plantar fascia, and elevation of the heel; of these three conditions, the former never exists without the two latter being present, and only occurs in cases of severe deformity of some years’ 1 Club-Foot, its Causes, Pathology, and Treatment; 2d edition. London, 1873. vol. vi.—64 Fig. 1468. Spasmodic equinus. (After Adams )