OSTEOMALACIA AND FRAGILITAS OSSIUM. 967 have been observed except in the period of growth. Here is a subject for investigation. I know nothing comparable to it in adults, except the delayed calcification of callus in fractures. The femur is sometimes seen to become curved when the patient, after a fracture of the shaft of the bone, is in too great a hurry to use it. Here, as in the cases to which I have alluded in the first place, the bone-tissue i£ defective rather in quality than in quantity; it still contains too many cartilaginous or fibrous elements, and it lacks density and cohesion. Lobstein records two cases which were taken to be true osteomalacia, and which belong to the category of the morbid condition which I am now de- scribing :— Yon der Haar speaks of a girl, about fifteen years old, who, after an exanthematous fever, had in the right arm and in the left leg an erysipelatous inflammation which terminated in abundant suppuration, necessitating a number of incisions, by means of which there was discovered not only enlargement of the bone, with caries, but also softening of the tibia and fibula, so that these bones bent when the leg was lifted by the heel, and curved like a bow when the limb was left to support its own weight. As a result of appropriate treatment, these bones recovered their former solidity; but it was noticed that they became deformed and thickened, and were at the same time short- ened. “Here,” says Lobstein, “is a well-marked case of acute osteomalacia, caused by metastasis one month after an exanthematous fever.” The same author reports a second example of softening, observed in the femur of a boy, nine years old, who, excepting smallpox, which he had had at the age of seven years, had had no other disease except an acute fever with delirium, which degenerated into a slow fever. Forty days after the onset of this acute fever, there appeared a large tumor on the right thigh, which was at the same time bent and curved forward and outward. After free suppuration, and the exfoliation of a number of sequestra, his health was restored ; his thigh-bone recovered its solidity, but remained enlarged and a little shortened. Here, I would say—thanks to the investigations of M. Ollier in regard to juxta-epiphyseal osteitis and the pathological growth of bones—here are two well-marked cases of juxta-epiphyseal osteitis, the first following an exanthematous fever and causing an arrest of growth; the second coming on with an acute fever, terminating in abscess with elimination of a number of sequestra, accompanied by the formation of sub-periosteal layers of bone and medullization of the old bone, with curvature from contraction of the inner muscles of the thigh, and finally arrest of growth from excessive irrita- tion (as in the first case) of the epiphyseal cartilages. There is not a surgeon who has not seen cases like these. It is to the same causes that I should refer fractures of the invaginating shells of sequestra, after the elimination or extraction of the latter, when the patient rises too soon, before eburnation of the bone-tissue has taken place, and when it is deprived of support by a splint or brace. Atrophy op the Bones ; Senile and Fatty Osteoporosis.—I shall omit from this section certain arrests of development which have been improperly classed with atrophy; such as congenital aplasias affecting the whole skeleton (dwarfishness), or a part alone, as, for example, microdactylism, certain forms of club-hand, club-foot, etc.; such as aplasice in young subjects, from want of use of the limbs, from lesions of the cartilages of growth, from lesions of the joints or of the diaphyses which affect these cartilages secondarily; such as neurotic aplasice, in children affected with spinal paralysis ; such as arrests of develop- ment following resections or amputations ; such as aplasic malformations of the cranium, or of the pelvis, in young subjects who have premature or abnor- mal consolidation of the bones which compose these osseous cavities. All these questions, associated with the laws of physiological and pathological