APPENDIX. 1200 surgeon, administered haschish, and performed perfectly painless amputations, tlie patients slowly recovering from the stupor. Pliny, writing in the first century, states that “Mandragora was drunk before cuttings and puncturings, lest they should be felt. Dioscorides describes the mode of preparing this anaesthetic, for use in those who were to be cut or cauterized—“or sawed,” adds Dodoens, his commentator—that they “do not feel pain.” Apuleius, of the next century, says that half an ounce of this, with wine, will cause the patient to sleep during an amputation, “ without sensation.” The “ spongia somnifera” of Theodoric (A. I). 1298) was inhaled before operations. M. Dauriol, in 1832, gives live cases of insensibility during surgical operations, induced by the use of a similar narcotic sponge.1 It was reserved for the United States of America to discover methods of anaesthesia which were com- plete, inevitable, and safe, in place of stupefaction, partial, occasional, and dangerous. And this was done in October, 1846. “ In three months,” says Bigelow, from this date, “ ether anaesthesia had spread all over the civilized world. No single announcement ever created so great and general excitement in so short a time. Surgeons, sufferers, scientific men, everybody, united in simultaneous demonstration of heartfelt mutual congratulation.”2 The discovery of anaesthesia has proven an inestimable boon to suffering humanity, not only in annihilating or mitigating pain during operations, but also by enabling surgeons to undertake operations, otherwise utterly impracticable or impossible of performance. Abdominal surgery has been almost created during the present century. The removal of enormous ovarian tumors has been rendered possible, and has been practised in thou- sands of cases, and with surprising success. The name of Dr. Ephraim McDowell, of Danville, Ky., will always be remembered, with a thrill of genuine pride, by every American surgeon, as the universally admitted pio- neer in this great operation, and the very first ovariotomist in the world, lie first performed this operation, which will bestow immortal fame upon him, in the year 1809, more than a third of a century before anaesthesia was discovered. The names of his eminent followers, Atlee, Peaslee, Spencer Wells, and many others, who, in the aggregate, have added thousands of years to the life of women, will also be forever famous in the annals of humanity. A large volume would prove inadequate to fairly set forth the extraordi- nary surgical achievements which have been accomplished thus far during the nineteenth century, and to assign to each surgeon his just due for his part in the truly marvellous progress which has been made, at home and abroad, during this brief period of time. The names of Dupuytren, Roux, Lisfranc, Velpeau, and Nelaton, of France; Abernethy, Cooper, Brodie, Fergusson, and Lawrence, of England ; Crampton, Colles, and Hamilton, of Ireland ; Bell, Syme, Liston, and Simpson, of Scotland; Graefe, and Rust, of Germany; Scarpa and Porta, of Italy; Physick, Barton, Mutter, Norris, Pancoast, and Gross, of Philadelphia; Wright Post, Ivissam, Rodgers, Wat- son, Stevens, Mott, Van Buren, Parker, and A. C. Post, of New York; Nathan Smith, of New Haven ; the Warrens and Hayward, of Boston ; N. R. Smith, of Baltimore; Warren Stone, of New Orleans ; Dudley, of Lexington; Brainarcl, of Chicago ; Eve, of Nashville ; and Hodgen, of St. Louis ; repre- sent but a few of the eminent surgeons who have labored successfully, during the present century, to extend the borders of their art, and have glided away from earth to their everlasting home, beyond the scenes of sickness, suffering, and death. Hundreds more have filled up the ranks, who are worthy fol- 1 See Bigelow’s History of tlie Discovery of Modern Anaetliesia, in A Century of American Medicine, 1776-1876, pp. 73-112. Philadelphia, 1876. * Ibid., p. 80.