826 OVARIAN AND UTERINE TUMORS. Ilio-pelvic Abscess.—In another part of this work1 the pathology and treatment of ilio-pelvic abscess have been fully described by Mr. Henry Morris, of London. To his article the reader is referred for general infor- mation ; and only such points as may tend to elucidate the relation of these abscesses to ovarian tumors will here be considered. The origin of ilio-pelvic abscess is multiform. Generally speaking, it is due to suppurative perimetritis; and only in exceptional cases is it referable to suppuration in a heematocele, or in an ovarian cyst. In the vast majority of haematoceles, the blood-clot is either slowly absorbed or is permanently encysted ; in suppurating cysts, the condition is recognized and relieved by surgical interference, or the patient dies from hectic and septicaemia, and far more often than we should infer from analogy in other parts of the body. Rupture into the adjoining connective tissue is extremely rare. When pus accumulates in the pelvic connective tissue, it is always due to some general systemic cause in addition to the perimetric inflammation, such as struma, general debility from anaemia, the puerperium, hospitalism, syphilitic dyscrasia, or previous tendency to septicaemia or pyaemia. Symptoms.—The symptoms of pelvic abscess are those of confined purulent collections elsewhere. Chills, fever, sweating—which should never be mis- taken for malarial symptoms—characterize the beginning of the disease; dysuria, rectal tenesmus, and pelvic pain, are also felt in proportion to the size and special location of the pus-collection. General exhaustion is very marked. The physical signs are those of a fluctuating tumor, which is most percepti- ble from the rectum, and which can often be mapped out by conjoined manipulation, although in many cases the surrounding inflammatory deposit makes the fluctuation extremely obscure. A positive diagnosis is sometimes impossible without the use of the exploring needle. The course of pus, imprisoned in the pelvis, is very uncertain. It may remain for an indefinite time without “ pointing” in any direction, or it may evacuate itself through any part of the pelvic parietes: upward into the peri- toneal cavity ; downward through the rectum, vagina, or bladder, one or all; through the foramina, then emerging upon the thighs or buttocks; or, finally, through the abdominal walls. The rectum and vagina offer the commonest and, happily, also the safest channels of escape in such cases. Differentiation.—-The conditions for which this state of disease is most likely to be mistaken are: (1) Pelvic hoematocele; (2) Pelvic cellulitis, in the stage of softening; (3) Suppurating ovarian cyst; (4) Extra-uterine pregnancy. If the history can be ascertained with a fair degree of accuracy, the first of these may readily be excluded ; for the sudden onset and hemorrhagic symp- toms of hcematocele are unmistakable. The physical signs are very similar. When suppurative inflammation has occurred in an luematocele or lueina- toma, the conditions are inseparable. The systemic symptoms in pelvic abscess will usually suffice to guide us in distinguishing it from any stage of cellulitis. If doubt still remain, the exploring needle must be carefully used, and will commonly decide the ques- tion. The employment of this test is, however, fraught with some danger. From ovarian cysts, in their usual condition, the diagnosis cannot be difficult. The smooth and elastic surface of the cyst, its mobility in most cases, and the evident non-implication of the pelvic tissue, all aid us in this respect; while the patient presents none of the serious constitutional symptoms above enumerated as characterizing abscess. When the cyst has undergone sup- puration, the difficulty is enormously increased, unless the antecedents of the 1 See Vol. V. pp. 1024 et seq., supra.