925 SCROFULO-TUBERCULOUS AFFECTIONS OF BONES. everything retrocedes, and the bone resumes its normal shape. In the sec- ond stage, spontaneous recovery may still take place, after evacuation of the purulent collection and removal of the sequestra. The presence of the latter retard recovery until their elimination. In some cases—and these cases would be more numerous but for the surgeon’s intervention—the disease goes on steadily from bad to worse: the swelling increases, the openings multiply, the joints are affected, the tendons of the extensors are attacked with inflam- mation and become tilled with fungous masses, while the flexors, which are usually not much affected, contract and determine vicious positions of the parts. In some rare cases surgical treatment is powerless to stop this process, and it is necessary to have recourse to amputation of the finger. M. Lannelongue has called attention to the eruption of tuberculous guin- mata, which is sometimes seen on limbs the extremities of which are affected with spina ventosa. The patients may have tuberculous osteitis at other points of the skeleton, and other strumo-tuberculous affections. I shall re- turn to this soon, when speaking of the general condition. But, I wish be- forehand to say a word about perforating tuberculous osteitis of the vault of the cranium. According to Volkmann, the symptoms are the following: A cold abscess marks its onset; the opening of this abscess lets out a characteristic cheesy pus, and discloses on the inner wall casefled tuberculous granulations. “Deeper down, the bone-tissue is found to be caseous and anaemic; often a sequestrum, as large as a pea, already occupies the substance of the bone; at other times, instead of a sequestrum, a perforation of the vault of the cra- nium is found; and then the pus which fills it pulsates. A fistula is estab- lished after the opening of the abscess, and this fistula may extend to the dura mater. Sometimes retention of pus gives rise to serious symptoms.”1 It is impossible to pass in review all the peculiar symptoms which may result from localization of tuberculous osteopathies in the different parts of the skeleton. The functional disturbances and the anatomical complications will be in relation with the functions and structure of the diseased parts of the skeleton, and of the organs which are near to them. Thus far, we have considered only the local symptomatology. It is not less important to the diagnosis of the nature of osteitis, to fix our attention upon the general condition and the antecedents of the patient. In practice, it is by the general appearance of the patient that a diagnosis of the probable nature of his osteitis is made. If one looks carefully at a number of patients affected with tuberculous osteitis or osteo-arthritis, two classes will be discovered. Those in one class are pale and bloated; their shape is full; their hairy development is sometimes very marked on the surface of the body, especially on the dis- eased limb; the cervico-maxillary region is surrounded with cicatrices of suppurating adenitis; the eyes show the marks of old attacks of keratitis and other ophthalmias. The others, on the contrary, are thin and dry, and bear no signs of adenitis or of ophthalmia. Some have the appearance of health ; others show all the signs of profound cachexia. If the whole body of the patient be exposed, traces of former attacks of periostitis or osteitis are found, with cicatrices depressed and attached to the bones; of cold abscesses (if they have been large, these sometimes leave cutaneous markings like those of pregnancy); of subcutaneous gummata; of anal fistulse ; of epididymitis ; of former operations, etc. This general inspection of the body should never be neglected; it is a fertile source of instruction as to the antecedents of the patient, as to his present general condition, as to complications, as to the 1 Heydecreich, loc. cit.