1189 HISTORY OF SURGERY. page: “ Certaine workes of Galens, called methodus medendi, with a briefe declaration of the worthie art of medicine, the office of a chirurgion, and an epitome of the third booke of Galen of natural faculties : all translated into English.” Gale gives a graphic account of the degraded state of military surgery in his time:— I remember when I was at the wars of Muttrel, in the time of that famous prince, King Henry the Eighth, there was a great rabblement there that took upon them to be surgeons. Some were sow-gelders, and horse-gelders, with tinkers and cobblers. This noble sect did such great cures that they got themselves a perpetual name, for like as Thes- salus’s sect were called Thessalians, so was this rabblement, for their notorious cures, called dog leeches ; for in two dressings they did commonly make their cures whole and sound for ever, after. But when the Duke of Norfolk, who was then the general, under- stood how the people did die, and that of small wounds, he sent for me and certain other surgeons, commanding us to make search how these men came to their death, whether it were by the grievousness of their wounds, or by the lack of knowledge of the surgeons; and we, according to our commandment, made search through all the camp, and found many of the same good fellows which tool* upon them the name of surgeons —not only the names, but the wages also. (Having ascertained that they were imposters, he adds) : but in the end this worthy rabblement was committed to the Marshalsea, and threatened by the Duke’s grace to be hanged for their worthy deeds, except they would declare the truth what they were, and of what occupation ; and in the end they did confess as I have declared to you before. The influence of Gale’s writings and example was greatly to simplify the treatment of wounds of all kinds, to elevate the standard of professional education, and to improve the character of practitioners. There are two curious little treatises, still extant, written in English by William Clowes, who was born about the year 1544. He was a naval sur- geon, and served on one of the queen’s ships, the Aid, about the year 1570. In 1573 he was engaged in full practice in London. He was “one of her Maiesties Chirurgions,” and for several years a surgeon in the “ Hospitall of Saint Bartholomewes,” and also in “ Christs Hospital.” The first of these tractates bears the following quaint title: “A briefe and necessary treatise, to veiling the cvre of the disease, now vsvally called Eves Veneria, by vnetions and other approved wayes of cvring.” The first edition was printed at London, in 1585, the second in 1596, and the third and last in 1637. It is surprising to learn from this work how great a number of cases of syphilis occurred at that time in the city of London, then comparatively a small town. He says:— If I be not deceived in mine opinion (friendly reader) I suppose the disease it selfe was never more rife in Naples, Italie, France, or Spaine, than it is at this day in the realme of England. I pray God deliver us from it, and to remove from us that filthy sinne that breedeth it. It is wonderfull to consider the huge multitude of such as be infected, and that daily increase, to the great danger of many. The causes whereof, I see none so great as the licentious and beastlie disorder of a great number of rogues and vagabonds, the filthy life of many lewde and idle persons, men and women, about the citie of London, &c. By means of which disordered persons, some other of better disposition are many times infected, and many more like to be, except there be found some redresse for the same: I may speake boldly, because I speake truly: and yet I do speak it with griefe of minde, that in the Hospitall of Saint Bartholomew in London, there hath been cured of his disease by me and three others, within five years, to the number of one thousand and more. I speake nothing of Saint Thomas Hospital!, and other houses about the citie, wherein an infinite multitude are daily cured. The masters of the foresaw! hospitals, being moved with devotion, and a Christian-like care towards these wicked and sinfull creatures, are daily inforced to take a number of these