148 URINARY CALCULUS. wicli, and the fact that milk is scarce and dear, and quotes Cadge’s assertion that the frequency of stone in children will be found in strict accordance with the difficulty of procuring milk. Mastin1 takes the other side, showing that in Kentucky and Tennessee— sandstone districts where the water is very soft—calculous disorders are com- mon, and are just as frequently encountered as in the limestone areas of the same region, where hard water is drunk. No country is exempt from calculous disorder, yet the areas of its prevalence are small. Thus in Eng- land, the eastern counties, Norfolk and Suffolk, appear to be most afflicted. It is noteworthy that as many cases occur each year in Norfolk, among its 438,656 inhabitants (Cadge), as in all Ireland with a population of 5,412,377. The northern counties of Ireland and of Scotland furnish more cases than the remaining portions of those countries. Calculous disease abounds in France, in Teneriffe, in Iceland, and in Egypt. Its frequency in Egypt is said by Roberts2 to be due to the presence of the minute urinary parasite, the Bilharzia hoematobia. Stone is also very common in Russia, especially in the central parts of European Russia. Klein3 states that cases of stone sometimes constitute a fifth of all those under treatment in the hospitals of Moscow. Estlander,4 on the other hand, shows that primary calculus is almost unknown in Finland, the University Hos- pital case-books showing only one Finlander with uric-acid stone during a period of forty-four years. There were cases of phosphatic stone with paralyzed bladders, etc. Civiale5 notices a similar immunity in Christiania, where out of 3211 patients in hospital during four years only one had stone, while in the hos- pital at Gothenburg, in Sweden, a hospital of sixty beds, there had been no stone case in fifty years. Fay re r6 says that stone is very common in the northwestern and central provinces of India, 554 cases having been cut for stone during a single six months in 1863. In Lower Bengal it is rare. Fayrer7 says that lithotomy has been performed only about one hundred times in the Medical College Hospital of Calcutta. Harris confirms the fact, and ascribes the frequency of the malady in the Northwestern Provinces to the prevalence of cold winds from the Himalayas, and to the use of a heavy unfermented bread by the natives. Dr. Garden’s8 testimony from the Sarah unpore Dispensary is corro- borative of the frequency of stone in India. Mastin9 refers to Curran for authority in stating that Hindostan is exceptionally rich in stone cases. Van- dyke Carter10 speaks for Bombay and the great prevalence of oxalate-of-lime calculi there. He thinks that stone is more common in Western India than in the southern portion. Mr. Dudgeon,11 of Pekin, informs us that at Canton, in China, and at Takow, in Formosa, calculus is found, but apparently not elsewhere. At Pekin the water is full of lime, at Canton very soft. Kerr12 also says that Canton fur- nishes the stone cases of China, and that not a single case was observed among the thousands of patients treated in the missionary hospitals at Iiing-po, Shanghai, Pekin, and Hangkow. 1 Causes and Geographical Distribution of Calculous Diseases. Trans. International Medical Congress, p. G09. Philadelphia, 1877. 2 Urinary and Renal Diseases. 2d American ed., p. 275. 1872. 3 Ueber Steinkranheit und ilire Beliandlung. Archiv f. klin. Chir., Bd. vi. S. 78. 4 Trans. International Med. Congress, p. 663. Philadelphia, 1877. 6 Op. cit., p. 580. 6 Referred to by Coulson (Dis. of Bladder and Prostate, 6tli ed., p. 378). 7 Clinical and Pathological Observations in India, p. 385. 1873. 9 Indian Annals of Med. Science, 1868, No. 23, p. 20. 9 Loc. cit., p. 618. 10 Calculous Disease in Bombay. St. George’s Hospital Reports, 1871-2, p. 85. 11 Calculus in China. Med. Times and Gazette, Sept. 2, 1876. p. 252. 12 New York Med. Journal, 1871.