AFFECTIONS LIKELY TO BE MISTAKEN FOR OVARIAN OR UTERINE TUMORS. 827 3 Op. cit., p. 504. patient are well known. If so, the existence of a tumor will probably have been known for years—a tumor which could not exist in abscess without immediate breakdown of the general health. As a last resort, an explora- tory puncture should be made—from the vagina, if possible, or, if the swell- ing be too high, through the abdominal wall. Should the needle penetrate a pelvic abscess, only pus, or blood and pus, will be obtained. If there be an ovarian cyst, enough ovarian fluid may be secured with the pus to give some of its distinctive tests.1 In this case the risks of ordinary explorative puncture are much increased, and a serious peritonitis is so liable to follow that we should never use the needle without being prepared to follow the punc- ture by a laparotomy at once if it be indicated. The large aspirator is here more unsafe than the hypodermic syringe, to which, however, I am accus- tomed to attach a needle at least twice or three times as large as that used for hypodermic injections. In extra-uterine pregnancy, the physical signs are not dissimilar, but the con- stitutional symptoms and the history are totally different. Instead of hectic, chills, and sweating, the symptoms of pregnancy will be found to coexist with otherwise good health ; and to this will be added, after the fourth month, more or less distinctive evidence of foetal movements. Menstruation, which may be regular in pelvic abscess, will have been suppressed. Prognosis.—In all cases of pelvic abscess the prognosis will be grave, and there will be cause for well-founded anxiety. If, however, the abscess be low —near the pelvic floor—and within easy reach of drainage from the vagina or rectum, the outlook will be more favorable than when high in the pelvis, and debarred from access by thick balls of deposited lymph. Nonat2 and Thomas3 think the prognosis mncli worse when the abscess opens high, “and by two points of exit, as, for example, the bladder and the bowel.” Treatment.—Only two plans of treatment are applicable to cases of pelvic abscess: the expectant and the surgical. The former is justifiable when it is apparent that the pus is advancing towards the surface of the vagina or rectum, and when no pressing symptoms exist. This, however, is undeniably hazard- ous ; for, as in one of Simpson’s cases, the abscess may burst into the peri- toneal cavity, while it seems to be advancing downward toward the vagina. But, when this process ceases, assuming that the existence of pus has been already demonstrated, its evacuation must be attempted as soon as possible. Up to this point, the treatment will have consisted in the administration of carefully selected and nutritious food, with quinine and other tonics, and in the application of hot fomentations, or poultices to the abdomen, and of hot vaginal injections, with careful regulation of the bowels and the avoidance of either constipation or the use of drastic cathartics. All this is palliative only, but it aids in paving the wray for what is to come. When a decision to operate is once reached this should be done without hesi- tation or delay. The choice will lie between aspiration or incision through the vagina, on the one hand, and laparotomy on the other. In this country, the former method has been in vogue ; but Tait, Martin, and Hegar have done so much to perfect the abdominal incision, that little doubt remains that this will become the favorite plan in the early future. Rectal puncture or incision is so rarely practicable that it may be left out of consideration. If the vaginal operation be selected, after once locating the pus with an exploring needle, Dieulafoy’s aspirator, or one of its modifications, is used to thoroughly exhaust the abscess, and then to wash out the cavity with hot carbolized water; or, a grooved exploring-needle being used, as soon as the 1 See page 792, supra. 2 Mai. de l’Uterus, etc.