340 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE BLADDER AND PROSTATE. tion of the bladder having taken place, such as to require a surgical opera- tion for its relief. Some remarkable examples of cystocele are recorded: in one, narrated by Mr. Clements,1 the whole bladder bad passed out through the abdominal ring into the scrotum, where it formed a tumor of large dimensions capable of holding two quarts of urine. Cases are reported in which a cystocele occasioned retention of urine and cys- titis, as well as others in which calculi were found. The comparative rarity of this affection has led to some errors being com- mitted both in diagnosis and treatment, which have resulted in serious con- sequences. The possibility of its being mistaken for a hydrocele must not be overlooked. Pott2 records a case in which lie cut into a cystocele on the supposition that he was dealing with a diseased testicle, and there are other instances in which the tumor has been mistaken for abscess or inflamma- tory enlargement about the groin. The diagnosis of a cystocele is not attended with much difficulty under ordinary circumstances. It is a soft, elastic, fluctuating tumor, varying in size in accordance with the amount of urine contained, and capable of being emptied by pressure, on the application of which a desire to micturate is experienced. In Mr. Clements’s case the patient could not pass water with- out first raising the rupture towards the belly and then rolling it about, when urine would pass freely, though in small quantities at a time. In the female, the protrusion, as already mentioned, is usually vaginal, occupying the anterior wall of the canal, and being commonly spoken of as a prolapse of the bladder. It occurs in females of a lax habit, who have suffered from prolonged leucorrhceal discharge, but oftener it is one of the results of the child-bearing period, being probably occasioned by some over-stretching of the parts in labor, or by subsequent subinvolution of the vaginal walls. Instances are recorded in which it has produced considerable embarrassment during delivery; when it has been occasionally punctured, under the belief that it was a cyst of the ovum or a hydrocephalic head. The treatment of this displacement is in principle similar to that applicable to other forms of hernia; it is either palliative or radical: the former division includes the use of supports or trusses adapted to the position and nature of the protrusion ; the latter, the prevention or limitation of the displace- ment by some plastic operation. In the female, the use of astringent lotions and the wearing of a suitable pessary are generally sufficient to prevent the occurrence of any considerable inconvenience. For the relief of the more un- manageable cases of vaginal cystocele, various expedients have been adopted. These consist for the most part in the removal of portions of the vaginal wall, and the drawing together by sutures of the edges of the wound, with the view of securing a narrowing of the canal. Dr. Marion Sims and Mr. Baker Brown both described operations of this kind, termed elytrorraphy, which have been followed by good results. In the last place, it must be mentioned that cases are on record in which the prolapse has been so unman- ageable, that almost complete occlusion of the vaginal oriflce by paring the labia and uniting them with sutures has been found necessary for success. Inversion of the Bladder.—This term is used to describe a condition— exceedingly rare—in which the viscus is turned inside out and protrudes through the urethra. It is only met ivitli in females, and is generally partial, seldom complete. Dr. Gross3 refers to only seven cases of the latter 1 Observations in Surgery and Pathology. London, 1832. 2 Philosophical Transactions. London, 1764. 3 Op. cit., p. 349.