188 URINARY CALCULUS. urinary specialist to cause himself to he sounded for stone no less than five times with negative result. Curtis also quotes Pitha’s account of Dr. Reisch, who, while suffering with stone, had a sensation as though his left foot1 were placed upon a red-hot plate. The size of the hot spot diminished as the stone grew smaller at each sitting of lithotrity. Finally only a small point re- mained. Pitha believed that he had removed every fragment. Search found nothing, but the pododynia persisted and the patient declared that a small fragment of stone certainly remained. Further search discovered this frag- ment. It was removed, and the pain in the foot departed. Marshall Hall’s2 case of spasm of the sphincter ani is well known, and a very instructive case is referred to by Gross,3 as observed by John Duncan, of Scotland-—that of a five-year old boy with epilepsy of two years’ duration, due to stone and ceasing permanently a fortnight after successful lithotomy. 9. Priapism.-—This, like nearly all other symptoms of stone, is more com- mon in infants and young persons than in the adult or aged. It is not induced by or attended with sexual emotions in the adult, as a rule. A boy having the erection at first mechanically, may afterwards by association have sexual inclinations with his erections, and may become confirmed in a habit of masturbation. The erection is undoubtedly due to a turgescence of the vessels in the prostatic sinus and about the neck of the bladder, and is irritative in character. Yet occasionally erotic desires may occur as a symptom of stone late in life. Such a case is recorded in a man of 85 by Bouvier.4 10. Symptoms of Chronic Vesical Catarrh.—The infant or young person does not very often have this symptom of stone in the bladder, while in an old man it may be absolutely the only evidence of the existence of stone. Diagnosis of Stone.—The subjective symptoms of stone are only sugges- tive; no positive diagnosis can be made without the aid of physical means. The most common of these is sounding. Many devices have been resorted to to improve this manoeuvre, such as the use of a peculiar polish upon the metal sound, that it may show a scratch, or the addition of a sounding board to the searcher, or the attachment of a tube to connect tbe searcher with the surgeon’s ear, or the adaptation of a micro- phone to intensify the sound. These appliances are certainly not surgical. If the surgeon’s hand is not deli- cate enough to detect the contact of his searcher with a stone without the aid of hearing, it will be wiser for him not to attempt to deal further with the surgery of the bladder. There is not generally any difficulty in hearing the sound of a stone as it is struck, if the bladder contains some fluid, so that the end of the searcher may lie freely rotated and a little force be given to the stroke. This sound aids the touch and helps the surgeon to differentiate between a hard and soft stone; but the sound is very inferior to the sensation imparted to the fingers through the searcher when it touches calculous material. The difficulty in finding stone is not to recognize it when it is touched, but to touch it at all, if the bladder is capacious ; for it may elude all search when the bladder is full, and may be covered by the loose folds of the viscus and out of reach when the bladder is empty. On one occasion, I was called to decide, in the case of an old man with a capacious, atonied bladder, whether stone was present or not. A prolonged search proved nega- tive, and the decision stood against the probability of calculus. As the bladder had 1 According to my observation, tbe left foot is generally the one to suffer. 2 Diseases of the Nervous System, p. 339. London, 1841. 3 Urinary Organs, 3d edition, p. 197. 1876. 4 Bull, de l’Acad. de Med., t. ii. p. 815. Paris, 1837-8.