1119 CONSTRUCTION AND ORGANIZATION OF HOSPITALS. Pawnee, used exclusively for hospital purposes at Key West, Florida, from 1870 to 1875, is said by Surgeon J. H. Clark, of the IT. S. Navy, to have been considered much preferable to any building that could be constructed on shore at Key West. Hospital-ships, under the exclusive control of medical officers of the army, were very successfully used during the late American war. The modern ideas of what is required in the proper care of the sick and wounded, are nowhere better shown than in the successful use, in very recent years, of well-equipped hospital-ships by the English, under the exclusive management of medical officers—a reform that is clue, no doubt, to the recent granting of executive control and management to the medical staff. A similar plan of using hospital-ships was introduced in 1883 in the German navy. Cottage and Convalescent Hospitals.—The merits of the English “ Cot- tage-Hospital” system are now well recognized. The hospitals may be small cottages for a few beds, or may be adapted for enlargement by adding rooms, small wards, or detached pavilions, fitting them for use as general hospitals, fever-hospitals, or infectious hospitals, or for convalescents. Mr. Burdett’s excellent work on the subject fully describes the construction and best methods of organizing and managing such hospitals. Their great merit is, that at a comparatively small cost, there may be a small and serviceable hospital in any community of moderate size and enterprise, and that it may be so man- aged that all classes may enjoy its advantages, and with any medical attend- ance that may be desired. Mr. Burdett recommends an excellent plan as a model, and in some articles in the “Sanitary Engineer,” in 1883-4, he gives a novel plan of a small hospital of two circular wards, just built at Green- wich, which it was thought would be the first circular hospital ever opened for the reception of patients. The plans for very small cottage-hospitals, recommended by Dr. Derby in the report of the Massachusetts State Board of Health, for 1874, are worthy of attention. Convalescent-hospitals are coming into more common use, and are valuable adjuncts for every general hospital. The practical effects of sending con- valescing patients from the wards of a town hospital, to spend a few days or weeks in the healthy atmosphere of the country, are most satisfactory, shortening the illness, making the recovery more complete, and permitting the patients’ earlier and safer return to their work. In the annual report of the Massachusetts General Hospital, for 1880, are plans of an excellent con- valescent-hospital, and Mr. Burdett’s model plan is well adapted for the same purpose.