1171 HISTORY OF SURGERY. He speaks of various instruments used in the extraction of these missiles, such as “ tooth-extractors,” “ root-extractors,” “ the impellent instrument,” “the trephine,” when the missile is fixed in bone, etc. Paulus says: “Some apply a tube about the barbs, so that when they draw out the weapon the flesh may not be torn by the barbs.” There are many other things contained in this chapter which will amply repay perusal. 1 shall, however, refer only to his use of the ligature for the arrest of hemorrhage. “But if the weapon has lodged in any of the larger vessels, such as the internal jugulars or carotids, and the large arteries in the armpits or groins, and if the extrac- tion threaten a great hemorrhage, they are first to be secured with ligatures on both sides, and then the extraction is to be made.” Hippocrates and Celsus both wrote on the extraction of weapons, but neither as fully as Paulus, from whom almost all subsequent writers, and notably the Arabians, quoted nearly verbatim. Paulus wrote on the various forms of intestinal hernia, in an ample, accu- rate, and precise manner. Plis directions for operating in strangulated hernia are more clear and minute than those given by Celsus. Paulus zEgineta may have been still living when the Saracens captured Alexandria in the year 640, and may have lamented with inexpressible sorrow the flight of learning into Arabia and Persia, whose peoples were to become enlightened through the medium of translations of the Greek authors, and who were, for many long and dreary centuries, to be the sole conservators of all scientific knowledge, while Europe was to be wrapped in intellectual ularkness; as “ One vast eclipse the human mind o’erspread, And learning slumbered with the mighty dead.” The Arabic period, which commenced at the destruction of the Alexandrian library, as above stated, continued to the close of the fourteenth century, or about six hundred and sixty years. Notwithstanding that the mass of the great library of Alexandria was burned to ashes, yet enough was rescued from the ruthless flames,by the lovers of literature and science, to furnish abundant mate- rial for Honain and his associate translators, for many years after, to convert into the Syriac and Arabic languages, by which mediums it was dispersed throughout western Asia. And so it came to pass that “the seat of learning was transferred for a time, from beneath the shadow of the cross to the empire of the crescent; from the classic shores of Italy and Greece to the warlike followers of Mahomet, and the fiery descendants of Ishmael.” The surgery of the Arabians is the surgery of the Greeks, with such modifications, by way of interpretations, as would be likely to result in pass- ing from the tongue of one nationality to that of another. And since there is so little to be found that is original in the surgical writings of the Arabians, it will only be necessary, in a brief historical sketch like this, to cursorily review the works of a few of the most distinguished of the Saracenic surgeons of the dark ages. The first Arabic translation was made about the year 683, but the principal part of this work was done by Honain, “the translator,” in the latter part of the eighth century. About this time the Caliph Al-Mansoor founded a college in Bagdad, which, under the continued care and patronage of the Caliph Haroun-al-Raschid-—of delightful memory,—became a famous centre of intellectual illumination, a star in the east. Bagdad could then boast of its public hospitals and laboratories, and its many thousands of students in the several departments of art and science. Rhazes, a celebrated Arabic medical writer, was born in Persia, and flourished in the latter part of the ninth and the early part of the tenth