SCROFULO-TUBERCULOUS AFFECTIONS OF BONES. 905 another, giving rise constantly to generalization of the tubercle. This is what is called inoculation and generalization in series, a method up to the present time uncontested, and the only one by which to distinguish true tubercle from pseudo-tubercle. Before M. Martin, M. Colin, of Alfort,1 and M. Toussaint had already established the generalization in series of tuberculous inoculations. But it was undeniably M. Martin who first sought by this method of experimentation the means of surely distinguishing pseudo-tubercle from true tubercle. The capital fact upon which generalization in series rests is the inoculability of tuberculosis. The inoculability of tuberculosis in both its forms had been demonstrated as early as 1865 by M. Villemin,2 who had also practised inoculations in series to refute the objection which was made to him, viz., “that tuberculous matter taken from a human corpse might well have no other action than that of a cadaveric substance.”3 In 1869, M. Chauveau rendered a number of animals tuberculous by making them swallow tuberculous matter obtained from the lungs of phthisical persons. Inoculability by the digestive passages was thus demonstrated. It is not necessary for me to dwell upon the importance of these researches of French experimenters, in regard to alimentation and hygiene. What is the infecting agent in these inoculations ? Is it a chemical sub- stance, or is it a micro-organism, which is carried and which is propagated in inoculations and in generalizations in series, and which gives to tuberculosis its virulence and its specific character ? The general tendency of thought is at present altogether in favor of a parasite, which, in spontaneous tubercu- losis, is introduced into the organism by the air-tubes, or the digestive or other passages, fixes itself in the tissues and fluids, the blood especially, and under- goes evolution there, when the soil is favorable to it by a defect of resistance, hereditary, innate, or required. “ M. Bouchard,” says M. Debove,4 “main- tained the existenceof the parasite of tuberculosis some years ago in his lectures. Afterwards, Klebs, in Germany, and Toussaint, in France, described it; but it seems clearthat the parasite which they described was due to imperfect cultures. The merit of the discovery belongs to Koch, and no one can dispute his claim to it.” In 1882, M. Koch isolated and colored the bacillus of tuberculosis. When this bacillus was cultivated, he found it indefinitely in generalizations in series which he effected by inoculations in animals. The'demonstration would appear to be complete. The bacillus might be considered the univocal criterion of tuberculosis, and might take the place of the gray granulation, the tuberculous follicle, and the giant-cell. Nevertheless, a conclusion must not be reached too hastily. For MM. Malassez and Vignal have just declared, in a communication to the Soeiete de Biologie,5 that they have not found any bacilli in lesions which clinical observation and experimentation have shown to be undoubtedly tuberculous; and that they have found in them another form of micro-organism—micrococci joined in zooglear masses. There would appear to be, then, a tuberculosis with bacilli, and a zooglear tubercu- losis ; and, I would add, there are still many obscurities to be cleared up, in spite of the progress made. It is evident that clinical observation remains, up to the present time, our surest guide. The general ideas expressed above are wholly applicable to tuberculosis of 1 Bull, de l’Academie de Medecine. 2 Cause et nature de la tuberculose (Bull, de l’Academie de Medecine, t. xxxi. p. 211) ; Etude sur la Tuberculose, 1867 ; De la Virulence et de la specificite de la tuberculose (Bull, de l’Acade- mie de Medecine, Aout, 1868, t. xxxiii. p. 746). 3 Chauveau, Journal de Medecine Veterinaire. 4 Semaine Medicale, No. 21, 1883. 6 Gazette Hebd., Mai, 1883.