INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE (ESOPHAGUS. 80 6 Nicoladini, Wien. med. Woch. 1877, No. 25 ; cited by Zenker and Ziemssen. Fig. 1176. straightening: O tT' Incomplete general slight enlargement to the hulk of a large arm,1 or four times the normal circumference at the greatest point of enlargement, so that its bulk may nearly equal that of the stomach.2 In the case illustrated by Fig. 1176, the organ was 46 centimetres in length instead of 29, the normal length, and 80 centimetres in its greatest circum- ference instead of 7J. In cases of considerable elongation, the oesopha- gus must form an S-shaped curve i a theory which is supported by the fact that, in one or two instances,3 stretching of the trunk has been practised to facilitate deglutition, the movement apparently out the kink dilatation seems to involve the tho racic portion of the oesophagus only.4 Pathology.-—The entire parietes of the dilated oesophagus are usually very much thickened, often to three or more times their normal thickness. They are very vascular in some in- stances. The muscular coat is much the most hypertrophied, as a rule, having been found as thick as the mus- cles of the abdominal wall. Exception- ally it is found much atrophied,5 al- though the general parietes are much thickened. The mucous membrane in some instances shows evidences of in- flammation—congestive, erosive, ul- cerative, or proliferative, as may be. Annular dilatation is most frequently the result of circumferential distention by retained aliment just above a stric- ture. Such a dilatation rarely occu- pies more than three inches of the length of the canal, and may be almost unnoticeable if not sought for. The upper portion is more distended than the lower. The canal is usually uni- form in circumference, but sometimes the dilatation is most pronounced at some portion of the periphery, occa- sionally to such an extent as to form a diverticulum.6 The muscular tissue above the stricture undergoes hypertrophy, and the connective tissue and mu- cous membrane become thickened. When due to stricture, the most frequent General dilatation of the oesophagus ; A, larynx ; B, thyroid ; C, trachea ; D, oesophagus ; A, stomach. (After Luschka.) 1 Rokitansky, Manual of Pathological Anatomy, vol. ii. p. 8. London, 1849. 2 Luschka, Arch. f. Anat., Marz, 1868, S. 473. 3 Gradenwitz, Schmidt’s Jahrb., Bd. ci., S. 298. 1859 (cited by Mackenzie) ; Davy, Dublin Hospital Gazette, May 1, 1875 (cited by Knott). 4 Cases of Raymond (Gaz. Med. de Paris, No. 7, 1869), and of Hanney (Edin. Med. and Surg. Jour., July, 1833). 6 Hanney, loc. cit.