39 OPERATIONS ON THE (ESOPHAGUS. patients were doing well 14 months, 12 months, and 3 months respectively after the operation. The fistuke were allowed to heal spontaneously, a pro- cess occupying 3 months in a female 26 years of age, 35 days in a child of 2| years, and 5 weeks in the adult operated upon by Bergmann. Sands’s patient, a child 2 years of age, died on the second day, having failed in her exhausted condition to rally from the operation. A boy, 13 years of age, who was ineffectually subjected to the same operation in the same hospital,1 died on the twelfth day, gastrostomy having been performed nine days pre- viously. Gastrotomic Dilatation of the (Esophagus.—This operation, said to have been first suggested by Schede, and unsuccessfully attempted by Trendelen- burg, consists in a forcible dilatation of the gullet, through a wound made into the stomach. It is done with the finger, with the bougie, or by rupture with a divulsing instrument. In 1883, Bergmann2 succeeded in restoring the calibre of the oesophagus sufficiently to justify closure of the gastric fistula, in a patient who had been subjected to gastrostomy, and in whom constant escape of the contents of the stomach could not be prevented. A band of membrane was made to slough out between the blades of a compressor, which had been guided to the obstruction by its grasp upon the end of a sound passed through the mouth. Five months after closure of the fistula, the stricture permitted the passage of a full-sized stomach-tube, and the patient was doing well, although dilatation was still kept up. A similar procedure, after preliminary gas- trotomy, has been performed several times by Loreta.3 Three patients are reported to have been doing well three weeks after the operation, the gastric and abdominal wounds having been closed with sutures after the divulsion of the lower portion of the oesophagus. In one case the patient swallowed easily on the first day, and was regarded as cured by the four- teenth.4 A fourth case was operated upon for a stricture at the cardia,5 the patient, a woman, being still living at the expiration of 25 days. Several additional cases, mostly successful, are attributed to Loreta, Studegard, Frat- tini, Catani, and Billroth. Loreta has in three cases successfully stretched both cardiac and pyloric orifices in the same patient. (Esophagectomy.—(Esophagectomy is the removal of a complete section of the oesophagus, the lower end of which is then attached to the external wound. A patient thus operated upon by Czerny6 was reported as comfort- able five months after the operation. One operated upon by Von Bergmann7 died within twenty-four hours from suppurative inflammation in the medias- tinum, with pericarditis, pleurisy, and pneumonia. A patient of Aovaro’s,8 from whose oesophagus two and four-fifths inches Avere removed, was re- ported as doing well seven Aveeks subsequently, the fistula having been closed by a plastic procedure one month after the operation. One operated upon by Israel9 died on the seventh day from suppurative inflammation of the con- nective tissue of the neck, with pneumonia. TAveAe cases referred to by Dr. Ashliurst10 gave eight deaths. 1 Sands, loc. cit. 2 Deutsche med. Woch., 24 Oct. 1883. 3 Gazzetta degli Ospitali, 14 Nov. 1883. 4 Loreta, Gaz. Med. Lomb., 24 Nov. 1883. 5 On March 15, 1884; cited by Gross (Am. Journ. Med. Sci., July, 1884). 6 1879. 7 1883. 8 Gazz. degli Ospitali, 9 Dicemb. 1883; Med. News, .Tan. 26, 1884, p. 98. 9 Gross, loc cit. 10 Op. cit.