INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE BLADDER AND PROSTATE. 394 where this condition is suspected. Gross very properly lays stress upon the circumstances that the concretion is invariably fixed ; that it is only to be felt at one spot; and that it does not, like a vesical calculus, alter its position with the various movements of the body. Treatment.—Should troublesome urinary symptoms be distinctly traceable to the pressure of a prostatic calculus, means must be taken to remove it. This can probably be best effected by a median perineal incision; in this way risk of hemorrhage will be avoided, whilst sufficient room will be afforded for the necessary manipulations with the finger or the forceps. Some very remarkable cases have been recorded in which almost the whole of the prostate gland has been removed by the pressure of dumb-bell-shaped calculi, situated partly within the bladder and partly within the prostate. In these instances the urethra has remained pervious. This condition is well illustrated by a case recorded by Mr. Poland1 (Pig. 1300). These calculi, however, are not in their origin of the nature of those now under considera- tion. Reference is made to them for the purpose of showing how, in another way, the place of the prostate may, either in part or in whole, be occupied by material very different from that composing the normal gland. ILematuria. Hsematuria, or the presence of blood in the urine, is a symptom which is common to many affections of the urinary system. Its appearance is gener- ally unmistakable, and naturally creates much apprehension in the mind of the patient, even though it may be connected with some disorder which is easily remediable. Occurring as frequently as it does, it is a symptom which requires the fullest consideration, inasmuch as a careful examination of the circumstances attending its appearance, continuation, or cessation, as well as the form in which it presents itself, often throws considerable light on the precise nature of its cause. Like some other affections-—for instance, irritability of the bladder—it is as a symptom that we must study it, rather than as in itself constituting a disease. It is as well to remember that not only by its presence does it often materially assist the practitioner in making a diag- nosis, but its absence is frequently a determining feature in a doubtful case. As hsematuria is capable of being produced b}r a variety of circumstances acting from the kidneys downwards, it will be necessary to analyze carefully the several conditions under which it presents itself to our notice. Blood is met with in the urine, either uniformly tinging it, or in clots. When intimately mixed, it produces various shades of discoloration of the fluid, sufficient in extreme cases to produce what is known as smoky urine, an appearance which is often referred to as being characteristic. When the amount of blood is small, it may only be detected by the microscope, a means of investigation which should never be omitted. Albumen has sometimes been found in the urine and attributed to some renal disorder, when its presence has been really due to blood proceeding from another source, and undetected by the test-tube. In normal urine the blood-corpuscles are visible, and retain their shape, for several days ; when the specific gravity is low, or the urine ammoniacal, they rapidly disappear. “ The marks by which blood-corpuscles are distinguished from other cells found in the urine, are, the extreme tenuity of their outline, the absence of visible cell-contents and especially of a nucleus, and their 1 Guy’s Hosp. Reports. 1857.