177 URETHRAL CALCULUS. which presumably had been carried by the patient for fifty years, and had made a nest for itself in the perineum and prostate, was removed by Walton.1 Its diameters were two and a half inches by one inch. Many other cases will be found included under the head of urethral calculus. Symptoms.—Prostatic stones, even when very small, may give rise to much annoyance ; yet the parts sometimes acquire surprising tolerance of the foreign body, and the calculus may be first revealed during an autopsy. I find two cases in which large prostatic calculi were perforated by a natural channel for the escape of urine. One of these calculi, removed by Rush ton Parker,2 weighed an ounce and a half. It seemed to replace the prostate, and had a central perforation. The other, observed by T. Sympson,3 had two channels widely separated from each other. It was a vesieo-prostatic calculus. The actual symptoms of prostatic stone are a varying amount of pain, weight, heat, dragging, throbbing in the perineum and rectum—possibly abscess, irritability of the bladder, retention of urine, presence of more or less pus and blood in the urine, erotic desires and a tendency to priapism—or there may be practically no symptoms at all. A searcher can generally be made to enter the bladder with ease, and diagnosis is established by the grating sound and confirmed by rectal touch. Treatment.—If the stone is small and has recently lodged in the prostatic sinus, an effort should be made to push it back into the bladder with a large, blunt, steel sound, or by passing a hollow tube up to the stone, and rapidly injecting a large amount of warm oil through it while the urethra is kept compressed about the tube. If these means fail, an attempt may be made to crush the stone with a small urethral lithotrite, or to extract it with the long urethral forceps or a Thompson’s divulsor, as recommended for urethral calculus. Failing in this, and in all cases of large stone, a perineal incision is required—in the median line for stones of moderate dimensions ; lateral or bilateral incision for stones of very large size. Urethral Calculus. It is not probable that primary acid stone forms in the urethra. Secondary alkaline stones do originate there in ulcerated pouches, behind tight stric- ture, in cavities left by abscesses, and perhaps in dilated follicles with narrow mouths. Commonly, urethral stone forms upon a nucleus sent down from above, a kidney-stone, or a fragment left after lithotrity. In young chil- dren a kidney-stone on its passage is often arrested in the fossa navicularis, or at the meatus; in older persons, in the more sensitive membranous urethra. Here it remains grasped by the muscular urethral walls, and grows by the addition, first of uric acid, and afterwards of phosphates. Ulceration may ensue and the stone find its way out spontaneously (Civiale).4 How long ure- thral stone may be carried is uncertain. In a case recorded by Block,5 such a stone was extracted after a sojourn of twenty-eight years. Urethral stone may be single or multiple to any extent; particularly is urethral calculus multiple when the floor of the urethra communicates with a pouch beneath. I have encountered this condition once, extracting five phosphatic stones. The size which urethral calculus may reach, and other points connected with the subject, may be illustrated by briefly citing some curious cases. Zeissl6 has collected a number of these, among them Wattmann’s case, that 1 Trans. Path. Soo. Lond., vol. xiii. p. 143. 18(32. 2 Brit. Med. Journ., vol. i. p. 85. 1878. , 3 Ibid., vol. i. p. 413. 1878. 4 Op. cit., p. 607. 6 Acta Acad. Nat. Curios., tom. viii. p. 441. Norimbergse, 1748. 6 Ueber die Steine in der Harnroehre des Mannes. Stuttgart, 1883. VOL. VI.—12