TUMORS OF THE BONES. 1000 expansile movement, and a murmur (Bardeleben), which may lead to carci- noma being mistaken for an aneurismal tumor of the bone. The integu- ments which cover the growth are distended and thinned. They are very vascular, and are soon destroyed, the neoplasm ulcerating, and giving rise to more or less serious hemorrhages. Spontaneous fractures may complicate both primary and secondary carcinomata of the hones. In a case of carci- noma of the neck of the femur, mentioned by Volkmann, the physician who treated it had believed that it was a coxalgia. A fracture occurred, and this was taken for a spontaneous luxation. The autopsy corrected the mis- take that had been made. In carcinoma of the bones, the lymphatic glands are invaded or engorged oftener than in sarcoma. Generalization is con- stant. Death is the inevitable termination of the affection if left to itself, the mean duration of the disease being then about a year and a half. Holmes found that in twelve cases out of twenty-eight, death occurred in the course of the first year; in five of these cases the affection had not even lasted six months. Secondary carcinoma is ushered in by more obscure phenomena; the pains, tumefaction, and deformities, however, should attract the attention of the surgeon. Spontaneous fractures sometimes have a certain tendency to repair, but almost always the fragments end by remaining ununited. (Malgaigne, Nelaton, R. Volkmann.) Nevertheless, more or less temporary consolidations have been reported. (Follin.) Diagnosis.—In general, carcinoma, rather than sarcoma, attacks patients of a certain age. Its course is more rapid, the pains are acute and persistent, invasion of the soft parts and ulceration of the skin take place early, engorge- ment of the lymphatic glands is more common. Finally, generalization is almost constant, and may occur very early. Diffuse carcinomatous infiltration sometimes strongly resembles osteomalacia; but the latter affection usually attacks a greater number of bones, and affects the general condition less rapidly. As for the diagnosis of secondary carcinoma of the bones, it rests entirely upon the detection of the primary tumor which has given rise to it. Prognosis.—The prognosis is always grave, on account of the frequent recurrences, and of the tendency to generalization. (Jamain and Terrier.) Treatment.—Whenever it is possible, the whole bone affected with carcinoma should be removed ; that is to say, disarticulation is to be preferred to amputa- tion in the continuity. (Follin, R. Volkmann.) This measure is applicable only to the limbs; everywhere else, simple extirpation is an unsatisfactory operation. (Follin, Jamain and Terrier.) Croft1 amputated the leg of a patient affected with an encephaloid cancer of the lower extremity of the tibia. Ten months afterwards there was recurrence at the lower end of the femur, the sur- geon practised disarticulation at the hip-joint, and the patient again recovered from this operation. Unfortunately we do not know what became of him afterwards.2 In all cases of carcinoma occupying the bones of the limbs, amputation is inevitable; and amputation at the nearest joint should be practised whenever it is possible. Lancet, Aug. 24,1872. 2 Diet. Encycl.