1045 CURVATURE OP BONES. the infant if possible; as medicinal agents, cod-liver oil and steel wine are of great value. Whilst the bones are still soft, any curvature that may exist is easily remedied ; if only slight in degree, and of recent origin, curvature of the tibia and fibula is best treated by stimulating the affected limb with the cold douche and shampooing, and by employing gentle manipulation to bend the curved bones into shape. The latter process is a very simple one: supposing that the right leg is under treatment, it is firmly held by the left hand, with the ball of the thumb resting against the outer side of the leg just above the curve ; the lower part of the leg is grasped around the malleoli with the rig-lit hand, and the bones are gently straightened, then relaxed, and again pressed outwards, and so on for about ten minutes, the exercise being repeated twice daily. In a more advanced state of deformity, mechanical treatment is re- quired ; for this purpose a light wooden splint, which is sufficiently long to reach from the inner condyle to the sole of the foot, must be bandaged to the inner side of the limb ; the splint should be slightly concave from side to side, and covered on its inner surface with padding, so that it may fit evenly and comfortably to the leg; it does not in any way interfere with walking, and if firmly and carefully applied, the curvature soon yields to the pressure ex- ercised by the bandage. When rachitic curvature of the bones is allowed to remain unrelieved until the child is advancing in years, and has thrown off the disease, the deformity is much more difficult to overcome, because on the concave side of the affected bone the compact tissue is thickened to an ab- normal extent, forming as it were a buttress to support the weakened side of the limb; this over-development of compact tissue may be carried to such an extent, in the tibia, as almost to fill up its concavity, and make the inner surface of the bone nearly straight. This consolidation of the curved bone is seldom present before the subject is from four and a half to five years of age ; even in this advanced stage, the deformity may be remedied by the long- continued employment of mechanical pressure, but a more ready means of relief is obtained by resorting to the operation of osteotomy. Osteotomy, as its name implies, consists in cutting through a bone, by which procedure the surgeon endeavors to convert the case of deformity into one of fractured limb, which may be re-united in a straight position. As at present conducted, osteotomy may be regarded as a recently introduced •operation ; for although division of the long bones was performed many years ago, it is now attempted to bring the section of a bone into the same class of operations as the section of a tendon, and to include it within the range of subcutaneous surgery. Two methods of performing osteotomy are practised: the bone may be divided Avitli a chisel (or osteotome) and mallet, or it may be cut through with a small saw. Operation with Chisel or Osteotorne— In 1868, Mr. Stromeyer Little per- formed osteotomy by means of a chisel, making oidy a small puncture in the superficial tissues,1 this being the first operation for which the subcutaneous principle was claimed ; the case Avas one of bony anchylosis of the knee-joint. The bones were separated with a small chisel, one-quarter of an inch in width, and the puncture Avas afterwards closed with a pad of lint fixed with a bandage, just as the wound in tenotomy is treated; the case progressed with- out any symptoms of inflammation, and terminated most successfully.2 Since this operation Avas done, considerable advance has been made in the method of conducting osteotomy; amongst others who have contributed to this 1 On In-Knee Deviation, by W. J. Little and E. Muirhead Little, p. 149. London, 1882. * The same surgeon, in 1865, operated on a boy in the National Orthopaedic Hospital who had •curvature of both tibiae; casts of the limbs before and after treatment are deposited in the hospital, and show an excellent result from the operation; for this case, however, the subcu- taneous principle was, I believe, not claimed.