1003 HISTORY OP ORTHOPAEDIC SURGERY. The introduction of subcutaneous tenotomy by Stromeyer was followed by results which can scarcely be estimated at too high a value. No sooner was it found that the treatment of club-foot had at last been undertaken upon scientific principles, than surgeons began to direct their attention to other forms of contraction and distortion, and the operation of subcutaneous teno- tomy was applied with success in cases which had before been considered in- curable, and the treatment of which had been relegated to the quack and empirical machinist. Like all other discoveries, subcutaneous tenotomy was at first employed somewhat recklessly, but this want of appreciation of its capabilities was soon corrected, and laws for its fitting performance were established by the investigations and labor of many able men. The me- chanical appliances previously in use were discarded or improved, and the machinist’s ignorance of the anatomy of the deformity which he endeavored to remedy by his ill-contrived appliances, was reformed by the science of the surgeon. From subcutaneous tenotomy sprang that still greater field of practice, general subcutaneous surgery, which, although not limited to the treatment of cases of deformity, was, together with a corrected knowledge and improved use of mechanical apparatus, the foundation of the special branch of practice called orthopaedic surgery. Orthopaedic surgery then, if it is to be considered a separate section of our science, is a specialty of treat- ment ; it confines its therapeutic benefits to no one organ of special sense or function, nor indeed to one special class of cases; for although it deals with the treatment of deformities, all deformities are not brought within its range —such for instance, as hare-lip, cleft-palate, and spina bifida—because the treatment of these affections does not belong to subcutaneous surgery. The treatment of the various conditions of contraction and deformity which we have now to consider, is a subject full of interest to all surgeons; few greater benefits can be conferred upon suffering humanity than that given by the removal of distortion—an affliction which, whatever may be its particular nature, is most distressing to its unhappy subject, both physically and mentally. One attribute belongs peculiarly to this branch of practice and lends to it especial interest: the practitioner is almost entirely compelled to rely upon his own care and resources in obtaining a satisfactory result; he has not simply to place the affected part in a favorable condition for nature to effect the cure, but, on the contrary, he has by constant attention to combat opposing forces until a complete restoration to the normal state, if such be possible, has been gained—a termination to the case which can only be arrived at by careful attention to details and established rules of practice. Orthopaedic surgery cannot yet be described as a perfect art, but this much may be allowed: that, as far as our knowledge goes, it is an exact science, and that the surgeon who has studied its practice with a reasonable amount of care, may confidently assure himself that he knows to what extent he can relieve any particular condition of deformity which he may have to encounter. The conditions of deformity, the treatment of which pertains to orthopaedic surgery, as has already been noticed, differ widely in their nature, and it may be further remarked that they vary much in the relative frequency of their development; three thousand consecutive cases which have passed under the writer’s personal observation were constituted as follows: Deformities of spine Club-foot ..... Curvature of the bones of the leg Genu valgum ..... Other deformities of lower extremity Deformities of upper extremity Wry-ueck ..... 937 581 743 526 158 42 13 3000