FUNCTIONAL DISORDERS OF THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. 649 The usual blue pill, or colocynth and rhubarb pill, may be given in aperient not purgative doses, or the natural saline waters may be taken to the requisite extent. A diuretic, such as nitrate of potassium, and at times cubebs, copaiba, or sandal-wood oil, will prove useful. The diet should be carefully regulated: a sufficiency but not an excess of food should be taken, and it may consist of soups, fish, roast and boiled meat, and vegetables, with brown or whole-meal bread. Sound claret is the best wine to drink, but there is no objection to cold brandy or whiskey and water. A remedy at once potent and pleasant is found in change of scene and occupation. A visit to a mountainous region where the air is "bracing, the scenery magnificent, and the accommodation suitable, will prove most useful; at other times a visit to the seaside, with out-of-door exercise and bathing, will be more convenient. A visit to a hydropathic establishment, where the scenery and living are good, and where regular hours are kept and the cold- water cure is in full force, is often to be recommended. When, as is the case in some instances, the reaction is too great after the cold bath, and gives rise to a condition of irritability, bathing must be dispensed with. When obtain- able at home, sea-water baths, or fresli-water baths with sea-salt added, espe- cially if the spine be well douched, are invigorating. Sea-bathing, however, is not to be employed when the patient is debilitated or remain's cold and depressed after it; if the feet are cold, they may be put in hot fresh water after the bath. Trousseau employed, in cases of spermatorrhoea, both dry and wet cupping to the spine ; in some cases counter-irritation by means of iodine-liniment and flying blisters are of service ; moxas and cauteries have also been used. The patient should sleep very lightly covered, in a cool room, on a hard bed. The most potent local sedative is the application of cold, which will keep the emissions in check if the patient will put up with the discomfort attending its use. An India-rubber bag, filled with ice, or a stream of cold water passing through a coil of soft metal pipes, may be applied to the part. Me- chanical means are to be taken to prevent the patient from lying on his back or face. M. Trousseau’s recommendation to apply warmth to the pe- rineum, is useful in cases when there are pain and irritation. lie extols the use of a metallic prostatic compressor, which is olive-shaped at one end, about the size of a pigeon’s or hen’s egg, and which tapers to the size of a small rectal bougie at the other. The olive-shaped extremity is introduced into the rectum, while the other portion projects from the anus, and is so fixed by a suitable T bandage that its upper end makes firm pressure on the ejaculatory ducts in the prostate, and so prevents the too ready escape of semen. Warn- ing girdles awake the patient by means of sharp points, or are so constructed that an erection completes the circle of an electric battery, and sets an alarm going near the patient’s head, and thus awakens him. The former kind are the more practical, and consist of a leather ring armed on its inner surface with steel spikes, and adjusted by means of a tape or buckle. The ring is regu- lated so that the points touch the flaccid penis; when the erection takes place the points prick with sufficient sharpness to awaken the sleeper, who should jump out of bed and bathe the genitals with cold water. When the patient masturbates while half asleep, it may be necessary to tie his hands, so that he cannot reach the parts, or to blister the penis. Mr. Milton prevents access to the organ by confining it in a light wire cage. Blistering was esteemed by the late Mr. Hilton to be one of the most useful means of cure that.we possess. The penis is enveloped in a blister, which should be applied in the daytime. Liquor epispasticus and strong iodine solutions are useful applications. In some cases the urethra is very sensitive, the passage of a catheter caus-