VITAL AND ORGANIC LESIONS OF THE URETHRA. 477 of the penis, to the groins, the thighs, and the anus. In many patients it is accompanied by a chill. As to the characteristics of this pain, they vary like its intensity. Patients generally compare it to a burning sensation, which some characterize by saying that it seems to them as if a red-hot iron were passed through the canal. It is rare that idiopathic contracture of the neck of the bladder persists for a long time without determining at length various complications. In certain cases, even at the beginning, the difficulty of micturition may reach a point at which there supervenes a true retention of urine, necessitating the employment of a catheter. In many patients there is an incomplete retention, the bladder does not empty itself completely, and they have overflow-urination. It is especially in these conditions that there are seen to arise, as com- plications, catarrh of the bladder, and even nephritis; the urine becomes turbid, mucous, purulent. On the other hand, the painful contracture is communicated to the adjacent organs—to the sphincter of the anus, to the muscles of the perineum, to the vulva—constituting what Velpeau called ano-vesical neuralgia, and Roux, ano-genito-urinary neuralgia. Finally, accord- ing to Mercier, persistent contracture of the neck of the bladder may ulti- mately cause a peculiar deformity of this orifice, consisting in the produc- tion of a muscular valvule, situated most frequently behind but sometimes in front, and resulting from the hypertrophy and retraction of the transverse muscular fibres which form the internal sphincter of the neck of the bladder. As these transverse fibres are much stronger at the posterior part, where they blend, and are continuous with those of the trigonum, it is explicable that the posterior valvule is much more common and more marked than the anterior. In some cases two valvules are observed, one in front and the other behind ; but the latter is always the more conspicuous. The presence of these valvules introduces a new obstacle to the emission of urine; it creates, further, a difficulty in the introduction of the catheter, inasmuch as there is formed in front of these valvules a more or less deep cul-de-sac, in which the end of the instrument is caught. Diagnosis.—From the stand-point of diagnosis, it is important to remember that, since contracture of the neck of the bladder is very often symptomatic, we should expect to meet with it in many affections of the urinary passages ; but in these maladies, it is most frequently easy enough to distinguish what belongs to the original affection from what belongs to the contracture. It is chiefly when it is a question of recognizing idiopathic contracture, that the diagnosis presents serious difficulty. Formerly this affection was very often confounded with calculus of the bladder, but this mistake appears to me to be hardly possible any longer, with our methods of exploration. The same is not true of another mistake, which consists in taking contracture of the neck of the bladder for organic stricture of the urethra; this confusion is, even at the present day, still very often committed. However, it may be avoided by having recourse to methodical exploration of the urethra, and by analyzing the results furnished by this exploration and by those which yet remain to be described. The functional symptoms are, indeed, insufficient to establish the diagno- sis of contracture of the neck of the bladder, and in the presence of a patient presenting the symptoms just indicated, the surgeon ought to pro- ceed to sounding with an exploratory bougie-a-boule (Ho. 16 of the scale of Charriere). The instrument, arrived at the entrance of the muscular portion of the urethra, is suddenly arrested; but if it he held here with a gentle pressure, it is not long before it slowly penetrates this portion, giving the surgeon the sensation of a peculiar resistance, as if the exploratory" bulb were firmly grasped; at the same time the patient complains of a cutting.