246 URINARY CALCULUS. his ear directly over the lower part of the abdomen. The tube is turned in various positions and the operator listens. The swash of the water, as it rushes in and out, is heard with startling distinctness, and, if the manage- ment of the tube is skilful, any fragment of stone lying loose in the bladder is sure in a short time to be driven against the metallic tube and to announce its presence by a characteristic click, quite distinct from that emitted by the happing of the bladder-wall against the eye of the instrument. Fine sand and thin scale of stones make no sharp click, and all such may be left fo pass by nature’s efforts; but any piece large enough to require the lithotrite can hardly escape detection by the educated ear. After-treatment of Litiiolapaxy.—This is practically the same as already laid down for cases of ordinary lithotrity. No vesical washings are required unless retention comes on, or atony exists, or the urine has been highly offensive before the operation. In such cases borated washings comfort and purify the bladder. The symptomatic treatment includes rest in bed, a hot-water rubber bottle for the hypogastrium—which is commonly the seat of pain—opium, quinine, sweet spirit of nitre, alkaline diluents, and mineral waters. The sense,of relief experienced after litholapaxy is often immediate and delightful. The patient exclaims at his comfort. Reaction may be very moderate, but it is not well to be too promptly reassured, since after a period of several days’ calm, similar to what is noticed sometimes when an old case of vesical atony is for the first time relieved by the catheter, cystitis may set in and considerable distress be experienced. There may be retention of urine for the first twenty-four hours or more, or there may be none. There may be more or less urethral fever. Generally, the urine ceases to be bloody from the second to the fourth day, and the patient may be up and about his room, or even out of doors, at the end of a week ; but in any case, no matter bow well he may feel, it is expedient to avoid risks and to keep him upon his back for about that period. He may arise to urinate, or to take a hot-bath—but should not sit up for any length of time. One of my patients, however, a gentleman of nearly seventy, after quite a severe operation, got up and took his cold sponge bath every morning without any evil result. Time consumed by the Operation.—Bigelow operated continuously during upwards of three hours, removing seven hundred and forty-four grains, and his patient did perfectly well.1 Thompson,2 starting with a much shorter limit of time, now says that none of his calculi have required more than seventy minutes, this time having been required to remove a hard uric-acid calculus of which the debris weighed 1320 grains. The patient did well. Guyon’s longest operation lasted seventy-five minutes. Reginald Harrison removed a two-and-a-half ounce stone in two hours and ten minutes,3 and Coulson, in an article4 reporting eleven cases with two deaths, says that his largest stone weighed 2060 grains, and was removed in three hours and a quarter. My longest operation lasted ninety-five minutes. Therefore, it may be concluded that the element of time is not a very im- portant factor in the operation, and while it is obviously better to terminate the sitting with reasonable promptness, the signal for stopping is the com- plete evacuation of the stone. Of course, any general circumstance which 1 Am. Journ. Med. Sci., January, 1878. 2 Lectures on Diseases of the Urinary Organs, 6th ed., p. 82. 1882. 3 Brit. Med. Journ., Aug. 10, 1882. 4 Lancet, March 19, 1881, p. 453.