1117 CONSTRUCTION AND ORGANIZATION OF HOSPITALS. discipline, and the regulation of all the duties of the various departments assigned to his assistants. He should regulate the admission and discharge of patients, discharges usually being made upon the recommendation of the visiting staff, and should have the power of appointment, removal, and regu- lation of subordinates generally, including the nurses, subject to the governing board or its special committees. The business of managing a hospital is of a special kind, and all its details must be ordered for the one purpose of curing the sick. Everything should work together to this one end, and none but a medical man can possess the knowledge by which the object may be gained in the most efficient and harmonious way. Unity of management is essential in such a household, and, as Dr. Mouat says, “ those are best qualified to conduct a business successfully who are best acquainted with its requirements.” The purchasing officer, a steward or purveyor, should have the immediate duty of buying supplies, the care and issuing of stores, the control of the kitchen department, etc., and the general care of the buildings and grounds. Asa steward he sometimes has charge of the book-keeping and accounts, and acts as a cashier in paying and receiving money, although it is usual for this to be chiefly done by a treasurer, who, apart from the immediate control of the hospital, has the management of the funds. It is far better that the purchasing officer should have no money responsibility, but, simply as a purveyor, perform functions like those of a buyer for a commercial house, besides having charge of the stores, etc.; the care of the accounts and all such matters may then be entrusted to a person who may be called the clerk of the hospital. This officer should have no executive duty or authority whatever, but should serve as a confidential assistant to the superintendent, regulating all the affairs of the office that require attention, and thus saving him from much unnecessary waste of valuable time. The application of this principle in organizing the business of hospitals for the insane is especially valuable, as it can be so managed as to leave to the superintendent most of his time for strictly medical duties. Under such an organization, the resident or house medical officers, doing duty with the sick as medical assistants, may be under-graduates, and they may serve as clinical clerks, dressers, and house physicians or surgeons, according to time of service. Other subordinate officers, apothecary, store- keeper, etc., require no special mention. The matron, or general housekeeper, should be subordinate to the superintendent of the nursing department, if there is such an officer. Hursing.—The nursing service should he under the charge of a superin- tendent of nurses, who should be qualified by a course of training in her duties. , She should have one or two day assistants, and a night assistant, to aid her in the inspections of the wards, and in teaching. The best results are gained by the establishment of a school for the training of nurses by a systematic course of instruction. The superintendent of nurses should be responsible to the superintendent of the hospital, and through him to the trustees, for the proper management and discipline of her department, the care of the wards and the sick, and the execution of all orders given by the visiting staff. The latter should refer all matters of discipline of nurses, etc., to the medical superintendent of the hospital, who is responsible for the proper and unquestioning obedience of the nurses to the directions of the medical staff The superintendent of nurses should also have control of the matron’s or housekeeper’s department, and through her of the linen store- rooms, sewing-rooms, laundry, etc., and generally of the servants in the house-keeping service. It is well for the housekeeper to be a graduate of the