540 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. hand, compress the glans, and slip the right index finger beneath the con- striction, between it and the dorsnm of the penis, then working the swelled foreskin, which is between the glans and the sulcus, backwards, under the stricture, and drawing at the same time the constricting foreskin forwards. M. Mercier reduces a paraphimosis by grasping the penis with the left hand, and by placing the right index and middle fingers longitudinally along the lower surface of the organ ; the pulp of the thumb presses against the glans, pushes backwards the oedematous fold of the mucous membrane, and guides it under the stricture by means of the thumb-nail; the left hand draws for- wards the prepuce at the same time. It will be observed that the constriction is caused by the tight orifice of the foreskin, and that the sulcus is well marked above and deficient below ; and if it be found necessary to divide the band at the bottom of the hollow, before reduction can be accomplished, this can he readily done by dividing the constricting prepuce; the small cut will instantly gape, and if the part have not been displaced long enough for effusion to have taken place, mat- ting the parts together, reduction will be readily accomplished. If not re- lieved, ulceration and a good deal of thickening and distortion will ensue, and recovery be retarded. The accident, which has sometimes happened to an unfortunate man on his wedding tour, is likely to be repeated, and it is there- fore well to slit up, or better still circumcise, the foreskin, and so prevent the recurrence of the annoyance. In weak subjects sloughing may take place rapidly, or ulceration may ensue in front of the stricture; but as a rule the stricture itself gives way by ulceration. After the reduction of the paraphi- mosis the patient should remain in bed, and should apply water-dressing or lead-lotion to the part. When paraphimosis from neglect has become chronic, and the tissues are ulcerated and indurated, there is no fear of strangulation, and the parts, owing to the induration, are not readily reduced; it will then only be neces- sary "to divide the stricture. Paraphimosis without strangulation may be treated by compressing the penis with strips of plaster, applied longitudinally and circumferentially. The condition of the glans penis may be judged of by its color: in the normal state it is red when compressed, the color going and coming under pressure of the finger, but when there is strangulation it is dark-colored and cold, and loses its sensibility. It may be desirable, in cases of tight paraphimosis, to administer an anaes- thetic, as reduction is a painful proceeding. Tumors of the Penis.— Vascular tumors are formed when a rupture of a vessel or of the body of the penis takes place. True aneurisms are not met with, but it is possible for a false aneurism to form after an injury to an artery. In cases of cancer of the penis the veins may become enlarged and tortuous, but varicose veins are not met with on the penis. The lymphatics may inflame on the dorsum of the penis, after excessive sexual indulgence, or after inflammation set up by any irritating cause. Red lines may be seen running along the surface of the organ, and hard cords may be felt termi- nating in a gland at its base. iSerous, sebaceous, and blood cysts are found in connection with the penis, the most common variety being the sebaceous cyst. A serous cyst removed by myself from the lower part of an adult’s prepuce, was as large as a marble, and transparent, and is preserved in the Anatomical Museum at King’s College. A similar cyst, only much larger, was removed by the late Sir William Fergusson and presented to the Hunterian Museum. (Ko. 2590 A.) The cysts are readily dissected out from the cellular tissue,