CURVATURE OF BONES. 1043 are usually squeezed above the great toe, but in some cases the latter lies upon the dorsal surfaces of the adjoining toes, which are then pressed down- wards ; the little toe is directed inwards, and the tarsal extremity of its metatarsal bone is often unduly prominent, with another bunion on its sur- face. This condition of deformity is thus one of mechanical origin; it occurs more commonly in women than in men, owing to the former being more addicted to the habit of compressing their feet with tight boots. The bunion over the metatarso-phalangeal joint of the great toe is liable to become inflamed and ulcerated, and the joint itself, from the pressure against its surfaces, is an additional source of pain which renders walking impossible and completely cripples the patient. The treatment of this deformity in the early stage consists in correcting the shape of the boots, and in drawing the great toe into place by means of a splint fixed along the inner border of the foot and carried to the end of the toe. When the distortion is more severe, the tendon of the extensor proprius pollicis muscle requires division; a slip- per similar to that used in the treatment of hammer-toe, but with a spring attached to its inner border to invert the great toe, is required ; a broad strap should also be passed over the phalangeal extremities of the metatarsal bones, so as to keep the forepart of the foot well spread out on the sole-plate, and the toe must be tied down and kept separated by means of tapes passed through slots cut in the same. After the shape of the foot is restored, the bunion must be protected by a shield of felt, and if thus protected from pressure it soon disappears. Curvature of Bones. Curvature of the bones is generally due to rickets, and owing to the pre- valence of this disease the deformity is very commonly met with amongst the poor of the large towns in England. Rickets is a general and not a local disease, of which curvature of the bones is only one of the symptoms, and not an essential characteristic ; moreover, the deformity occurs in the later stages of the disease, and is not present up til the affection is somewhat ad- vanced in severity. Rickets affects infants who have been either improperly or insufficiently fed, and who are exposed to cold and damp, to which causes the development of the disease is generally ascribed by English physicians. It is a common practice amongst the lower classes for women to continue to suckle their children until they are fifteen or eighteen months old; such prolonged lactation is most injurious to the infant. Again, children who are brought up by hand are fed with milk which is largely diluted with water, and are thus deprived of sufficient nutriment; or sickly infants are given, with the view of strengthening them, various foods—such as arrowroot, gruel, potatoes, and meat—which their digestive organs are unable to assimi- late. One or other of these errors will in nearly all cases of rickets be found to have been committed during infancy; prolonged suckling has been in my experience the most common cause of the disease, and next to this the adminis- tration of different kinds of starchy food. An infant thus circumstanced soon shows symptoms of defective health : sickness and diarrhoea, with swelling of the abdomen, are the first to appear; restlessness at night, sweating of the head, and general tenderness of the body quickly follow; next the epiphy- ses of the long bones become enlarged, those first affected being the ribs, at their sternal extremities, and the bones of the forearm and leg. There is a general condition of laxity of all the tissues: the skin is pasty, the muscles are flabby, and the ligaments are soft and wanting in tenacity; enlargement of the spleen, liver, and lymphatic glands may also occur, whilst there is a