URO-GENITAL FISTULA. 715 others have been reported. The seven referred to were two of Kaschewarowa, two of Spiegelberg, and one each of Fraenkel, Meadows,1 and Mann.2 To these, five have been added, by Sanger, Ahlfeld, Baiardi, Alexander R. Simp- son,3 and Soltmann.4 Three of the cases have occurred in children, the oldest of them aged three years and a quarter; it is believed that in these the dis- ease began in foetal life. Sarcoma is liable to be confounded with cancer or fibroid, and a certain diagnosis can only be made by the microscope. In cancer and sarcoma of the vagina, extirpation of the diseased structure gives the only hope. The operation has been done with the galvano-cautery, with the scalpel, and with scissors; Grammatikati used in his case Volk- mann’s sharp spoon. If possible, the scalpel or scissors should be employed, bleeding vessels being ligated if necessary, and sutures being used to unite the healthy tissue over the part from which the growth has been removed. In the great majority of cases the disease returns, but in a very few instances the cure seems to have been permanent. Mucous Polypi of the Vagina.—These are analogous to mucous polypi of the uterus; they occur rarely, indeed their existence is doubted by some writers, while Scanzoni believes them to be more frequent than fibrous polypi. They may cause leucorrhoea and hemorrhage. Their removal is easily effected by torsion, by the ecraseur, or by ligature and scissors; Eus- tache recommends the elastic ligature. ILematoma.—Vaginal hiematoma is frequently associated with hsematoma of the vulva; they have the same causes, and require the same treatment. Murray5 has given an interesting case of luematoma occurring in a girl seven- teen years of age, caused by falling from a trapeze. The tumor, examined a month after the accident, was in the anterior wall of the vagina, was pear- shaped, and pushed the neck of the womb upward; eight ounces of dark, unclotted blood were removed with an aspirator, and recovery followed. Uro-Genital Fistula. * Uro-genital fistuloeare abnormal com- munications between the urinary and the genital organs. From the fact that such communications in the great ma- jority of cases involve thevesico-vaginal wall, all have been sometimes included under the name of vesico-vaginal jistulce, but these constitute only one form of the lesion. The abnormal opening may be in the u re thro-vaginal wall, and then the fistula is called urethro-vciginal; if one of the ureters communicates with the vagina, the fistula is uretero-vaginal, and if with the uterus, it is uretero-ute- vine; if there be an opening from the bladder into the uterus, the fistula is vesico-uterine. It may happen that two 1 London Obstetrical Society’s Transactions, vol. x. 2 American Journal of Obstetrics, vol. viii. 3 Transactions of Edinburgh Obstetrical Society, vol. v. 4 Schmidt’s Jahrbucher, 1882. 5 Philadelphia Medical Times, 1877. Fig. 1403. Diagram showing various forms of uro-genital fistula.