RATE OF GROWTH OF URINARY CALCULI. 101 ness of the doctrine of molecular coalescence as applied to the formation of calculi. Rate of Growth of Urinary Calculi. Compact acid stones—uric-acid, and oxalate-of-lime—generally form slowly. Gross cut a man who had had symptoms of stone for twenty-six years, and the calculus was only as large as a hen’s egg. I removed two ounces of acid stone from a boy of nine. Xo fixed rate can be named, the increase being doubt- less mainly dependent, in acid stones, upon the proportion in the urine of the ingredient which is being deposited. The estimates of Meckel that primary stones gain from two to six lines in diameter yearly, and of Gross that the increase is from one to four drachms yearly, are little better than guesses. Ultzmann attempted scientifically to establish the rate of growth for pri- mary stones by keeping them in acid urine which he renewed daily. lie found that a number of small stones so treated in his own urine weighed on an average ten times as much at the end of the year as they did at the be- ginning. He concludes that the rapid rate of increase can only hold good in the case of small stones.1 Phosphatic stones grow more rapidly, as a rule, than acid stones, but they increase at a varying rate, the grade of the catarrhal process probably having more to do with it than anything else. I removed a hair pin from a young girl’s bladder where it had remained unmolested for more than a year, yet it was encrusted with less than a drachm of phosphatic deposit. Poulet2 refers to a calculus, removed by lithotomy, which weighed two and a half ounces, and which had for its nucleus a soft catheter introduced by the patient ten months previously. This patient undoubtedly had had catarrhal cystitis, with atony and retention, for which he had introduced the catheter in the first place. Hence the rapidity of stone formation. Robert Abbe3 re- moved by lithotrity, from a man of 70, an entire soft catheter and phosphatic material with which it had been encrusted. The phosphates only weighed forty grains, although the catheter had been in this old man’s bladder for seven months. These instances are sufficient to show the irregularity of the rate of growth of stones of either class. Gross Characters of Urinary Calculi. Calculi present peculiarities in shape, surface, color, size, weight, consist- ence, and number. Shape.—Calculi are ordinarily oval or rounded in form, and more or less flattened. Ultzmann argues4 that the shape of any single stone forming in the bladder, the growth of which is not interfered with by accidental causes, is regulated by the system of crystallization to which belong the original crystals out of which the stone is composed. Thus uric-acid, phosphatic, and cystine stones are naturally of the fiattened-oval type, having three main diameters, because their crystals tend to assume rhomboidal forms possessing three diameters. The oxalate-of-lime crystal belongs to the quadratic system, with two axes nearly equal; hence these stones are globular. Calculi show facets, if a num- 1 Op. cit., p. 162. 2 Treatise on Foreign Bodies, etc., American translation, vol. ii. p. 155. 1880. 3 Medical Record, December 24, 1881, p. 705. 4 Die Harnconcretionen, p. 9. 1882. VOL. VI.—11