821 UTERINE TUMORS. cautions must be taken throughout the operation, and an aseptic tampon should subsequently he applied and maintained in the vagina for a week or ten days. (8) Amputation of the cervix is demanded when the cancerous disease is appa- rently limited to the cervix uteri, or when, beginning there, it has invaded other tissues only to a limited degree. It includes: 1. Amputation of the vaginal portion only ; 2. Supravaginal amputation (Schroeder’s method). The first (and much the simpler) of these operations may he performed with the knife or scissors, the ecraseur, or the galvano-cautery wire. Each of these instruments has its advantages and drawbacks. If the former he selected, the cervix is to be split bilaterally up to the vaginal junction, wedge-shaped portions, including all the diseased tissue, excised from the anterior and posterior lips, and the flaps so stitched together as to unite cer- vical to vaginal mucous membrane; after which the lateral incisions are to he closed by silver sutures. This is Marckwald’s method, and in my hands it has seemed satisfactory when the cervix could be drawn down to the vulva ; hut, as the hemorrhage is apt to be profuse, it is unsuitable for cases in which the uterus is fixed. If ecrasement he preferred, the curved ecraseur of Simpson should be used, as this obviates much of the traction upon the uterus which must otherwise he made. The chain must be passed as high as possible upon the cervix—it involves no danger to either bladder or Douglas’s pouch if the womb he not dragged down—and it must be tightened with extreme deliberation, fully ten minutes by the watch being allowed for its cutting its way through. Both this and the previous operation may he done under continuous irri- gation with a 2-per-cent, carbolic acid solution. Ether of course is used, and the patient is kept in Sims’s left lateral position. Should the galvano-cautery be used, as is generally done in New York, the wire-loop is passed (cold) at the same height as the eeraseur-ehain ; and, when tightened, the current is slowly turned on so as to heat the wire only to a red heat; more than this is undesirable, as it is extremely important that the wire should burn through the tissue very slowly. The cervix is apt to slip unless it be steadied by volsella, or, better, with Thomas’s screw forceps1 with shoulders, which also steadies the wire. The best galvano-cautery batteries in use in this country are Byrne’s and Dawson’s; and to Dr. John Byrne, of Brooklyn,2 the American profession is more indebted than to any one else, for his intelligent labors in perfecting this method of treatment. In the after-treatment of these cases, careful and efficient tamponing of the vagina for a week or ten days is most important, for the danger of second- ary hemorrhage is much greater than is commonly supposed. I have seen most alarming hemorrhage on the seventh day, and Thomas on the ninth day, after operations conducted in this manner; and nothing can be juster than that author’s warning that “ reliance on .the hemostatic powers of the electro- cautery in this operation is a delusion, and a most dangerous one.” Supravaginal amputation of the cervix (Schroeder’s operation) is indi- cated when cancerous infiltration is thought to have passed still higher up the womb, and is thus performed: The cervix is drawn down to the vulva by stout volsella forceps, or by two ligatures passed deeply through the para- metria. A curved incision is then made in the anterior vaginal vault, deeply into the submucous tissue. The cervix is drawn forward and a similar incision is made through the posterior vaginal vault, the ends of the incisions meeting on either side. The bladder is rarely or never injured in front; and 1 Op. cit., p. 593. 2 Amputation and excision of the cervix uteri, Trans. Am. Gyn. Soc., vol. ii. p. 57 et seq.