INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTION. 88 including M. Rydygier, Mr. Treves, and Mr. Gibson, of Manchester, have devised ingenious clamps for temporarily compressing the gut, and thus pre- venting the escape of its contents. The section of the bowel is best made with scissors, a portion of healthy bowel being left between the cut and the clamp, so as to allow space for the adjustment of the sutures. A triangular piece of the mesentery should also be excised, the base of the triangle cor- responding to the extent of the resected intestine, and the wound being closed with tine sutures. The clamps are then cautiously removed, first from the lower and afterwards from the upper end, and the parts are attached to the external wound by numerous stitches. When an attempt is made to restore the continuity of the gut, either as a primary or secondary procedure, the clamps, carefully adjusted, are fastened together so as to approximate the cut ends of bowel, and these, having been freshened, if necessary, are then secured to each other by two rows of sutures, one bringing together the edges of mucous membrane, and buried in the tissues of the gut, and the other applied through the serous and muscular coats, as in Lembert’s method.1 Mr. Treves justly condemns Gussenbauer’s suture as needlessly complicated. In order to facilitate the introduction of the stitches, cylinders of dough, decalcified bone, etc., have been introduced into the bowel, but are objectionable as exposing to the risk of at least tem- porary obstruction ; if any guide is needed, a bag of thin India-rubber may be used, as suggested by Treves, being inflated after its introduction, and being allowed to collapse again, and withdrawn, before adjusting the last suture. The operation is completed by returning the sewed-up bowel into the abdomen, and closing the external wound. Colectomy, a resection of a portion of the large intestine, is less often practised than enterectomy, and indeed can seldom be recommended except in certain cases of malignant stricture of the colon, or of fecal fistula, or what Mr. Morris calls “ false anus,” of this part.2 In cases of this kind the place of incision is, of course, determined by that of the fistula, but under other circumstances colectomy is, as a rule, best effected through an incision in the lumbar region, as in lumbar coiotomy, the bowel being drawn out and dealt with in the manner, and with the precautions, described in speaking of enterectomy. Ricolaysen has reported a successful case of colectomy per- formed through the rectum. The statistics of these operations, enterectomy and colectomy, have been made a subject of special study by Madelung,3 Rydygier,4 Reicliel,5 and Makins.6 To the histories tabulated by these writers I have been able to add a num- ber of others, and the following table contains references to 186 cases, a larger series than has yet been collected:— > See Fig. 1123. Vol. V. p. 989, supra. 2 See Vol. Y. page 985, supra. 3 Archiv f. klin. Chirurgie, Bd. xxvii. S. 277. 4 Berliner klin. Wochenschrift, 18 Jalirgang, Nos. 41-43. 5 Deutsche Zeitsclirift f. Chirurgie, Bd. xix. S. 230. 6 St. Thomas’s Hosp. Reports, N. S., vol. xiii. p 181.