AFFECTIONS LIKELY TO BE MISTAKEN FOR OVARIAN OR UTERINE TUMORS. 823 of Rosenmiiller, which lies between the folds of the broad ligaments near its margin. One or more of the ducts, of which this organ is mainly composed, undergoes slight dropsical distention from a casual irritation ; this increases under favorable conditions, and the sac becomes distended rapidly and to a large size. The walls of these cysts are thin, and lined with cylindrical epi- thelium, which is often ciliated ; occasionally they contain non-striated mus- cular fibre.1 They are rarely pedunculated, generally springing directly from the surface of the broad ligament, of which circumstance advantage is taken in their enucleation when they are removed by laparotomy. They contain a clear, crystal-like serum, which contains little or no albumen, is of low specific gravity, and has an opaline tint when freshly drawn. They are nearly always unilocular, and as a rule do not return after tapping, although recurrence has been noted in a number of recorded cases. Killian,2 who lias lately made an exhaustive study of the anatomy and histology of these cysts, thinks that they contain no element which can be termed pathognomonic. Their proper treatment is by tapping, which is nearly always curative ; or, if peritonitis be feared, by laparotomy and enucleation. The latter is not difficult, as adhesions are rarely found. If there be signs of hemorrhagic oozing from the site of attachment in the broad ligament, a drainage-tube must be used. Pelvic ILematocele.—Pelvic hiematocele, or retro-uterine hcematocele, as it is often called, is a symptom, not a disease; and a symptom referable to many diverse causes. But its prominence is such, and the conditions attend- ing its occurrence are so alarming and far-reaching, that it is naturally re- garded as the malady itself. Definition.—Pelvic hrematocele is an effusion of blood into the pelvic cavity, either into or behind the pelvic peritoneum. In the vast majority of cases the blood settles by gravitation into the posterior cul-de-sac, whence the term retro-uterine hcematocele; but, as exceptions to this rule occur, the more comprehensive term pelvic hcematocele will here be retained. Etiology.—The causation of pelvic hematocele is multiple, and the variety of conditions that lead to it justify the above statement of its symptomatic character. The main sources of the hemorrhage may be classed under the following heads: (1) Reflux of blood from the uterus; (2) Direct outflow from the pelvic, or the lower abdominal, bloodvessels; (3) Metastasis, or transudation, in certain blood diseases. Cases belonging to the first of these classes—cpiite frequent, although less so perhaps, than those of the second—occur almost exclusively during menstrua- tion. The regurgitation may be due to suppression of the flow by cold, fright, or mechanical injury; unusual exercise, or violent coitus during menstruation ; or occlusion of blood within the uterine cavity or the Fallo- pian tubes by stenosis of the cervical canal. In the second category are classed all cases due to rupture of the vessels in the pampiniform plexus, of the uterine veins, or of the bloodvessels developed in the false membrane of pelvic peritonitis. The rupturing ovisac of an extra-uterine pregnancy will lead to similar results if the rupture should occur at an early date; or the blood may come from the hypersemic mucous membrane of a Fallopian tube. Hart and Barbour3 think that, of all these causes, “rupture of the Fallopian tubes and ovarian pregnancies are the most common.” This statement is certainly open to question. Illustrations of the third class may be found in the internal hemorrhages that occur in the course of scorbutus, in hemor- 1 Spiegelberg, Archiv fur Gyn., Bd. i. S. 482. 2 Ibid., Bd. xvi. H. 3. 3 Man. of Gyn., p. 167.