677 WOUNDS OF THE PREGNANT UTERUS. guided, it may be, by a brutal, trembling, or ignorant band, it wounds the uterus as well as, or instead of, the ovum. Such injuries are of the neck more frequently than of the body of the uterus; in some cases the foetus has been wounded by the instrument, while in others this has penetrated the uterine wall, and has entered adjacent tissues or organs. The intestines1 have been thus injured, and Tardieu2 mentions an instance in which the internal iliac artery was opened, the consequence being a rapidly fatal hemor- rhage. Even if the instrument used be blunt, as a uterine sound, the force employed, or the condition of the uterine wall, may be such that the latter is perforated. In a case3 reported to the Medical Society of Lyons, a woman used a female catheter, introducing it into the womb for the purpose of caus- ing abortion ; she succeeded, but the catheter remained, and four months afterward a swelling was observed at the umbilicus, caused by the point of the instrument; an unsuccessful attempt was made to remove this through the uterus, after incising the cervix, and then the abdomen was opened. In most cases, vaginal wounds of the pregnant uterus are made known by a post-mortem examination. If discovered while the subject is living, the treatment is, first, to remove the instrument with which the wound has been inflicted, if it be still present, and, second, to subdue the inflammation which follows the injury. Abdominal wounds of the pregnant uterus have been caused by falls upon stakes, or other pointed objects, by injuries from firearms, from knives or trocars, either before or after incision of the abdominal wall, or from the horns of bulls, steers, or cows. Reichard4 lias reported the case of an inn-keeper’s wife who, near the end of her pregnancy, was shot by a drunken man; the weapon used was a pistol loaded with shot; labor occurred the next day, and the child, which was living, had upon the right clavicle a wound from which a grain of shot with a fragment of the mother’s chemise was ex- tracted ; the woman recovered. Staples5 records the case of a woman twenty-eight years old, and also near the end of pregnancy, whose uterus was wounded by a pistol- ball ; labor came on in forty hours, and she was delivered of a dead child in whose abdomen the ball was found; she recovered. Hays6 records the case of a colored girl, eighteen years old and six months pregnant, who was accidentally shot by a pistol, the ball passing through the abdominal wall and wounding both uterus and foetus ; mis- carriage took place the next day ; the girl recovered. In a case reported by Finnell,7 where a pregnant woman was stabbed in the abdomen and the foetus had an incised wound of the thigh, labor did not occur Until a week after the injury. Some cases8 have occurred in which the wound of the abdominal wall and uterus made by the horn of an animal, has been so large that the foetus has at once escaped through it, and yet recovery lias occurred. Duparcque held9 that the more extensive was the wound, the more were the tissues relieved of engorgement, and the less intense was the traumatic fever. The pregnant uterus has been punctured for supposed ascites and for cystic collections of fluid. Illustrations10 of this error have been published by Blundell, Tavignot, Duncan,11 and Stickney.12 In the case reported by Tavig- 1 Virginia Medical and Surgical Journal, p. 257. 1858. 2 Etude Medico-legale sur l’Avortement. 3 British Medical Journal, 1871. 4 Bibliotheque du Medecin-Praticien. 6 Medical Record, 1876. 6 New Orleans Medical and Surgical Journal, 1879. 5 See paper by Dr. C. C Lee (Transactions of American Gynaecological Society, vol. viii.). 8 An example is given by Deneux (Essai sur les Ruptures de la Matrice). 9 Maladies de la Matrice, tome ii. 10 Gallez, Historie des Kystes de l’Ovaire. 11 Mechanism of Natural and Morbid Parturition. 12 Boston Medical and Surgical Journal, 1876. In the case which Dr. Stickney has reported, the uterus had been tapped twice by another physician, a quart having been drawn off at one time and a pint at another ; a third tapping was prevented by the woman falling in labor at the time set for the operation.