470 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE URETHRA. narrow blades of steel united at their vesical extremity for a distance of four centimetres, and curved at this part like a catheter; these blades are flat within, convex without, in such a way as to furnish by their union a deli- cate sound, two millimetres in diameter, split along its length ; 2d, of a Fig. 1335, • Voillemier’s Divulsor.—A, plunger; b, its longitudinal groove ; B, section of stylet; C, guide with its branches (a) slightly separated, but united at their beak, where there is a screw for the adjustment of the bougie, gf \ DEy stylet and catheter. stylet terminating in a conical extremity, solid and cylindrical in all the rest of its extent, and furrowed in its side by two flat, shallow grooves, designed to receive the two blades of the conductor. This groove has the shape of a dove-tailed mortise, so that the blades of the conductor, once engaged, cannot escape from it. The conductor having been previously introduced into the bladder, its two blades are slightly separated and secured in the grooves of the stylet, which is driven with a single motion into the urethra. The instrument is then with- drawn, a catheter is inserted and allowed to remain for twenty-four hours, and about the tenth or fifteenth day the employment of metallic bougies is begun. In fear of being unable to introduce a catheter, when once divulsion has been accomplished, Voillemier has had constructed a long stylet (Fig. 1335, .Z)), which can be attached to the conductor, and a catheter Zf, open at both ends and capable of sliding along the stylet; but the employment of these last two instruments has never appeared to me necessary. (e) Forced Injections.—These injections, of which I shall say but a word, have been recommended as a means of dilatation of strictures by Soemmering, Bruninghausen, Amussat, and Key bard. Injections of oil, such as Soemme- ring practised, may indeed facilitate sounding, but cannot cure stricture. Amussat bad the idea of clearing by forced injections a stricture clogged with mucus or gravel. He made a mistake in wishing to generalize this method. Beybard proceeded in the following way. Either he introduced up to the obstruction a canula, the expanded end of which was closed by a cover with two boles, intended, one to give passage to a bougie, the other to receive the end of a syringe tilled with water; or he simply poured into the canula a certain quantity of mercury, the weight of which exerted a strong and continuous pressure upon the walls of the canal. # All these me- thods have been abandoned with good reason. (3) Urethrotomy.—Urethrotomy is an operation in which the constricted portion of the urethra is incised. There are two methods of urethrotomy: