TUMORS OF THE BONES. 984 is enveloped only by the soft and fibrous tissues, which it pushes before it. In some cases, in which the tumor is very vascular, pulsation and a blowing sound have been discovered. Some tumors are actually transparent. This variety is most frequently met with in the fingers, which are so often the seat of multiple enchondromata. The hands often exhibit then several small tumors which resemble each other. Course.—Ulceration of the integuments does not take place until very late, and when it happens it is the result of inflammation by distention. Partial gangrene of the mass has been observed. Finally, Chassaignac saw one of these tumors suppurate, and I can report also a case of this kind. Pain is a late feature, and is due to compression of the nerves. Chondromata are generally benign tumors, of slow course, sometimes remaining a long time stationary, but sometimes also making rapid advances. At the end of their evolution, when, by successive increase in their size, the skin is broken and suppuration is established, the patients may become cachectic and succumb. The duration of chondromata is often considerable. Such tumors may last ten years, sometimes even twenty years, before giving trouble. I have said that chondromata can be classed with benign tumors. There are, however, malignant chondromata.1 In some cases the lymphatics have been involved, and cartilaginous degeneration of the neighboring lymphatic glands has been observed. Visceral infection has also been noted: in the lungs by Bicliet, Virchow, Volkmann, Baum, 0. Weber, and Heurtaux; and in the spleen by Muller. It is well to remark that in these cases the growths were not chondro-sarcomata, but really true chondromata. Well circumscribed chondromata seem to be less grave than those which are the starting-point of tracks of embryonic tissue. (Heydenreicb.) Local recurrence is quite frequent, but does not of itself indicate a malignant tumor. In such a case it is permissible to ask one’s self if the operator has not left behind some morbid tissue. Further, it must be considered that, chondromata being multiple tumors, after ablation of a growth of this nature others may be developed in different parts of the skeleton, without there being necessarily a recurrence or generalization. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis is easy in the hand or in the fingers; but much less simple in other regions. A firm and elastic tumor, large and with a bosselated surface, developed slowly, without pain, without enlargement of the lymphatic glands, without adhesion to the skin, and without cachexia, will suggest the thought of a chondroma. The presence of cysts will in some cases make an exploratory puncture possible, and the detection of cartilage- cells, with or without capsules, will furnish a valuable means of diagnosis. Spina ventosa bears a resemblance to chondroma only at first sight. Sarcoma and carcinoma are distinguished by their malignant course. Cysts of the bones may be more easily confounded with chondromata, as may fibromata; but the latter have generally a smoother and more regular surface. Treatment.—Medical treatment is absolutely useless. As for certain pallia- tive measures, such as partial ablation, or the opening of cysts which the tumor may contain, they are applicable only to special, well-defined cases. In cases of pedunculated enchondroma, section of the pedicle by the subcu- taneous method has been of no service. Ablation is, then, the measure to be resorted to, and the particular operative procedure to be employed must be determined by circumstances. (1) Ablation.—Formerly caustics were employed for the removal of chon- dromata, or for their destruction in place. But, with the employment of antiseptic dressings, there is now no reason for such a procedure, and prefer- 1 Walsdorf, op. cit.