295 URINARY CALCULUS IN TIIE FEMALE. Thompson found a stone so thoroughly encysted as to be practically imbedded in the vesical walls, which had to be cut through in order to liberate the offending body. Emmet1 also describes a remarkable case. lie detected a stone, found it always in the same place, and made out that it was detained in the ureter. By making backward pressure with a large sound in the bladder, the stone could always be felt by the linger, introduced either into the vagina or the rectum. Therefore, with the stone so held in place by a sound, a speculum was introduced into the vagina, and the stone was cut down upon with scis-, sors, the wound being enlarged toward the neck of the bladder. In this way the calculus was removed without opening either the peritoneum or the vesical cavity. I have this stone in my collection now. It is about as large as the little linger, If inch long, J inch in diameter, 4§ inches in the long and 1\ inch in the short circumference. Interrupted sutures were applied, and the patient did well. From motives of delicacy, women often conceal the fact of being afflicted with vesical maladies, and this may perhaps explain why so many cases are on record where enormous stones have been passed spontaneously by the urethra, or have ulcerated their way through the vesico-vaginal septum. Coulson quotes Bouque as saying that out of 204 collected cases of vesico-vaginal fistula, 6 were due to this cause. Agnew2 records a personal case in which a calculus as large as a goose-egg ulcerated its way into the vagina, and in which the opening closed spontaneously without leaving a fistula behind. Gross3 refers to Collot, Beards, Baker Brown, Middleton, Botti, Klauder, Garden, and Wilks, as having recorded cases of the spontaneous discharge of stones, the calculi varying in weight from two to twelve ounces. Tho. Molineux4 records the case of one Mrs. Margaret Plunkett, who expelled through the “ urinary passage,” without medical or surgical aid, a stone weighing §ij 3'j 9j gr. vj, Troy, and having circumferences Tj1^ X 5| inches. Incontinence followed. Another case in the Transactions is that of a “Gentlewoman of Wallingford,” 63 years old, who had taken from her by her husband, without instruments and without blood, a stone having a length of 4| inches, and a compass of 5Jr; weight §iij, avoirdu- pois. She recovered with incontinence. Garden’s case5 is that in which four stones were passed by a woman, one of them 5X4 inches in circumference. Coulson® quotes from Tulpius, that a lady of 89 passed spontaneously by the urethra a stone weighing three ounces and two drachms. Guerin7 records the case of a woman who passed in the same manner a stone as large as a pullet’s egg, weighing nearly an ounce. This she did without any surgical aid, four days be- fore confinement. Incontinence of urine, generally permanent, has been found to follow the expulsion of the stone in these cases. Yelloly8 records the case of a woman from whose urethra there was extracted without operation a stone weighing 3 ounces 3f drachms, Troy; 3f inches long, 2 broad, If thick; 7| X 5^ inches in circumference. Incontinence followed. I have found the record of another case, in a woman of 80, who passed a stone weighing 40 grammes, 5 inches in circumference. Incontinence followed at first, but after twenty days this venerable dame could hold her urine for more than an hour. She had passed 453 stones previously. These instances go to show that this malady does not necessarily shorten life in the female. Finally, as showing how large a stone may be extracted 1 Op, cit., p. 754. 2 Op. cit., vol. ii. p. 693. 3 Urinary Organs, p. 300. 1876. 4 Philosophical Transactions, abridged, etc., 4th ed., 1731. Ohs. 66, p. 151. 6 Ibid., Obs. 61, p. 150. 6 Op. cit., p. 370. 7 Journal de MSd., Chir., Phann., etc., t. xxxi. p. 162. Paris, 1769. 8 Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. vi. p. 574. London, 1819.