INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE BLADDER AND PROSTATE. 370 moil and sometimes troublesome complaint, and when not due to any of the •causes indicated, is probably connected with an atonic condition of the walls of the bladder, manifesting itself when the action of the voluntary, control- ling muscles of micturition is temporarily in abeyance, as in sleep. In the management of these cases, reliance is chiefly to be placed upon inculcating habits of regularity, combined with medicinal treatment. Among drugs which may be mentioned, are belladonna and its alkaloid, atropine. These seldom fail when employed on the principle “ that chronic diseases need chronic therapeutics.” Various mechanical means have been adopted for the treatment of this affection, such as the employment of thejugum, or urethral compressor, and closing the meatus with collodion, as suggested by Sir Domi- nic-Corrigan.1 Of these, the latter is the least hurtful, and may occasionally, when other means have failed, be resorted to with advantage. Attention to the diet is very necessary in these children ; irregularities, both in eating and drinking, are often attended with a condition of urine that is likely to provoke incontinence. A strictly milk diet has, in some instances, been sufficient to effect a cure. There is a form of irritability of the bladder which is frequently met with, especially in highly intelligent and sensitive children, at about the age of ten or eleven years, when they are entering upon the sterner forms of educational study. On examination of the urine it will be found loaded with phosphates. In remedying this condition, the bromides, in combination with opium, will be found invaluable. Care must be taken that the child be not submitted to an undue amount of nervous tension by reason of his educational studies. Lastly, it must be remembered that irritability of the bladder is a symp- tom which is by no means confined to the male sex ; it is frequently met with in females. In the same manner as already insisted on, the causes of the irritation must be carefully searched out, not forgetting that in females the condition of the uterus or of the rectum frequently affords a sufficient explanation. There is a cause of irritability and spasm of the bladder in females, which, though not uncommon, is not sufficiently recognized. I refer to fissure at the orifice of the urethra, which is enough to account for the sensitiveness complained of. Failing its cure by a few applications of nitrate of silver, rapid dilatation of the urethra is generally found sufficient to afford relief. We have been accustomed to regard an irritable bladder as a purely func- tional disturbance, as far as this viscus is concerned, and for the most part it is so; but we must not forget that the constant contraction of the bladder may produce changes behind it, which follow as a consequence of the back- ward urinary pressure, and of which dilatation of the ureters and of the kid- ney are examples. These conditions have been noticed where there has existed nothing to account for them, other than the obstacle to the escape of urine which a constantly contracting bladder has presented. Injuries of the Prostate. Wounds and ruptures of the prostate from accident are, by reason of the manner in which the gland is protected, of rare occurrence. Occasionally a subacute form of prostatic inflammation is provoked, especially in gouty subjects, b}r contusions such as follow violent concussions of the perineum, as from the pommel of the saddle in riding. The tenderness thus produced generally subsides with rest, in the course of a few days. Wounds of the 1 Dublin Quarterly Journal of Medical Science, February, 1870.