THE CiESAREAN SECTION AND ITS SUBSTITUTES. 766 and turn out the whole uterus; then to incise it longitudinally through its posterior wall, remove the foetus and secundines—care being taken to compress the aorta during the opening, evacuating, and contracting of the uterus—pass a drainage-tube through the Douglas cul-de-sac, and replace the uterus. The author of this method designed it from a belief that the greater thickness of the posterior wall would insure a better closure of the wound; that the weight of the uterus with the intestines upon it would aid in keeping the wound from gaping; and that the dependent position of the wound would insure proper drainage through the tube, in case there should be any escape of fluid from the uterine cavity into the utero-sacral fossa. To this operation there are several decided objections. 1. In quite a number of Porro operations the plan of Muller has had to be abandoned, and the uterus has had to be opened in situ. There are cases in which it is either impractica- ble or unwise to turn out the organ as proposed. 2. There is a danger of en- countering the placenta in making the incision, a complication which would occasion much greater difficulties than when the same is met with in front. 3. The high position of the uterus after parturition would cause the wound in its posterior face to discharge into the abdominal rather than into the pelvic cavity. 4. Recent cases of multiple suturing of the anterior uterine wound show that it may be rendered water-tight by the plan of welting-in the peri- toneum, even in cases rendered almost hopeless by long labor, ante-partum hemorrhage, and exhaustion, as proved by autopsy after the operations of Drs. Garrigues, of Yew York, Jewett, of Brooklyn, and Drysdale, of Phila- delphia, as well as by the recovery of several women in Germany. (2) Frank’s ProcessJ—The author of this method is the assistant of the celebrated Dr. Bardenheuer, of Cologne, well known for his nephrectomies and other surgical operations. The design is to make the operation in a measure extra-peritoneal, and to establish complete drainage. The plan is to open the uterus low down in front, and to make a pocket around the incision by bringing the two round ligaments together, so as to shut off the utero-vesical pouch from the general peritoneal cavity, suturing these liga- ments in apposition by means of Czerny’s suture silk, and establishing drainage from this closed pouch per vaginam. Dr. Frank commences his operation by washing the abdomen first with ether and then with a five-per-cent, solution of carbolic acid; he also irrigates the vagina with the latter. He then opens the abdomen by a long incision, and turns out the uterus entire before incising it longitudinally in front, commencing low down in the vesieo-uterine excavation. After evacu- ating the uterus, he washes its front and interior with the carbolized water, and again washes out the vagina with it. A large drainage-tube is passed through the uterine wound and out of the vagina, and the uterine wound is sutured above it with strong catgut; the tube also passes out at the lower end of the abdominal wound, which is to be sutured closely down to it. The pocket formed as already mentioned, is drained by a small tube passed through an opening into the vagina, just in front of the cervix, and a third tube is made to lie upon the uterine wound and extend nearly to the top of the pavilion. The drainage-tubes being placed, the round ligaments are then sutured together, and the abdominal wound is closed and dressed anti- septically. If the size of the foetus makes it necessary to extend the uterine incision further upward than usual, or if the round ligaments cannot be approximated through enough of their length without too much tension, exudation of 1 Beitrag zur Lehre von der Sectio Caesarea. Centralbl. fur Gynak., 10 Dec. 1881, Bd. 5, No. 25, S. 598.