483 VITAL AND ORGANIC LESIONS OF THE URETHRA. (1) Acute Urinary Abscesses.—These abscesses, which are always caused by the existence of a more or less tight stricture, present symptoms and run a course varying with the seat of rupture. When the latter is produced at the level of the membranous portion of the urethra, behind the triangular liga- ment, the abscess is developed in the prostatic fossa. The patient then com- plains of pain, of frequent calls to urinate, of a feeling of weight about the perineum and rectum, of malaise, and of light chills. But the collection, held in and bound down by the triangular ligament, can make only an altogether inappreciable swelling in the anterior part of the perineum ; it makes its way into the ischio-rectal fosste, and shows itself externally by brawniness, and afterwards by gangrenous patches very near the anus. This is, however, a rare form of urinary abscess; most frequently, on account of the customary situation of strictures, lacerations of the urethra are produced in front of the triangular ligament. Then the abscess is developed in the anterior perineal region, determining certain not very well-marked manifestations, such as slight chills, short febrile movements, tension in the perineum, and increased difficulty in micturition. At the same time the anterior perineal region becomes the seat of a rounded, hard, painless tumor, developed in the direc- tion of the urethra, extending at the same time to the side of the anus and of the scrotum, and most frequently continued upon the penis, which appears as if buried in it, and soon becomes resistant and painful to the touch. Very rarely the collection opens into the urethra; then there flows in the intervals of micturition a yellowish and thick pus, which escapes with greater abundance if the tumor be gently squeezed. The latter diminishes gradually, and ends by disappearing, leaving behind a small indurated nodule which is at length absorbed. Usually the opening of the abscess takes place externally, occasioning, however little it may be delayed, grave disorders resulting from infiltration of urine and pus into the surrounding cellular tissue. In the diagnosis of urinary abscess, simple enough in general, there may nevertheless arise a double error. The first mistake, which it is almost im- possible to avoid before opening the collection, consists in taking an abscess of the perineum, not communicating with the urethra, for a urinary abscess. The opposite error is more frequent; a patient presents behind the scrotum a deeply situated fluctuating tumor, which is opened, and the contents of which are purely purulent; it is believed to be a simple abscess, but at the end of a few days urine flows through the wound. The treatment consists in free incision of the tumor, practised even before fluctuation has become evident. To avoid all error, it should be remembered that, the abscess being almost always situated at a great depth, the parts should be divided through a thickness which may reach four, five, and even six centimetres. As soon as the swelling has disappeared, and the wound is on the road to repair, no time should be lost in treating the stricture itself, and in introducing a catheter, which should be left in position in order to prevent the establishment of a fistula. (2) Chronic Urinary Abscesses.—These abscesses are much less frequent than the preceding, which is well enough explained by the eminently irritating action exercised by the urine which is infiltrated into the tissues. Ot these abscesses, some occupy the perineum, others the pendulous portion oi the penis. Those which are situated in the perineum present themselves in the dorm of small tumors, rounded or slightly elongated, hard, adherent to the urethra, covered by normal skin, and so painless that they usually escape . the attention of the patient. These abscesses are susceptible to resolution, either spontaneous, or in consequence of rational treatment. Almost constantly they are seen to pass into the acute state under the