INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE FEMALE GENITALS. 692 Fig. 1392. rate apposition of the lips of the wound. Tig. 1390 shows three of the vaginal sutures fastened, with one vaginal and two rectal stitches free. In Fig. 1391 the three sets of sutures are represented as introduced and fastened. In Fig. 1392 there is represented the form of denudation required when the tear extends up to the vaginal cul-de-sac (Kaltenbach’s case); the ascending branches of freshened tissue appear as if widely separated, so that the disposition of the sutures can be readily seen, although in reality their surfaces are parallel to each other. In the operation as performed by Emmet, two important points are presented, one relating to the denudation, the other to the insertion of the first stitch. He says that if the posterior portion of the surface in an old complete laceration be carefully examined, there will be found on each side a little pit or depression caused by contraction of a por- tion of the fibres of the anal sphincter, and that it is essential that the tissue at these points should be thoroughly denuded. The second point relates to the introduction of the first suture in proper relation to the edges of the divided muscle. In Fig. 1393 the suture is seen introduced superficially, but the anal sphincter is not restored to its proper place and use—the mouth of the purse is formed, but the purse string is wanting—and hence involuntary passing of gas or feces. In Fig. 1394 the suture a b is superficial, as in Fig. 1393; but, on the other hand, c d is introduced so far back, running obliquely across the rectal extremity, that by securing it the divided edges of the sphincter are turned up and. brought into perfect apposition. Perineoplasty ; denudation extending to vaginal cul-de-sac. (After Hegar and Kaltenbach.) Fig. 1393. Fig. 1394. Perineoplasty; Emmet’s method. When either rectal or vaginal sutures are used, it is better that they should be of catgut, silkworm-gut, or silk. The continuous or spiral catgut suture gives good results, both in perineorraphy and in perineo- plasty (Schroeder, Brose, Doleris1). The catgut is prepared by soaking it for twelve hours in Van Swieten’s liquor, and it is then put in oil of juniper, and kept in rectified alcohol; before being used, it is dipped in a four-per- 1 Archives de Tocologie, Fdv. 1885.