1091 CONSTRUCTION AND ORGANIZATION OF HOSPITALS. at Bloomingdale was not opened till 1821. The Friends’Asylum, at Frank- ford, Pa., opened in 1817, was the second institution in the country founded solely for the insane. The Revolutionary war greatly stimulated the progress of medical science, and military hospitals were established in various parts of the country, par- ticularly in Pennsylvania, New Jersey, New York, and Boston ; but at the beginning of the present century there was no hospital for the treatment of general diseases in Massachusetts. The first U. 8. Marine Hospital was built in Charlestown in 1803, and the Massachusetts General Hospital, the third of the important institutions of the kind in the country, was opened in 1821, its department for the insane, McLean Asylum, having received its first patient in 1818. In 1840 there were about fifteen hospitals for the insane in the United States, and in 1880 there were 137 such establishments, public and private. The permanent hospitals built before the middle of the present century in this country wrere upon the block or corridor plans, and the Hospital of the Protestant Episcopal Church in Philadelphia, and the Boston City Hospital, opened in 1862 and 1864 respectively, only about ten years later than the first foreign hospital of the kind, were the first permanent ones in America having detached pavilions connected by open corridors. M. Tenon is credited with first having treated the subject of hospital con- struction scientifically, in his memoirs presented to the Academy of Science in 1787, in relation to the hospitals of' Paris, and particularly to the terrible condition and frightful mortality of the old Hotel Dieu. He not only laid the foundation of the present system, by advocating the use of one-story pavilions, but he uttered the soundest doctrines in regard to proper organization and management. Again, however, the opposition of non-medical influences, and political events, arrested progress, and it is curious to notice that the first pavilion hospital, the Lariboisiere, was not completed until 1854, and that it was three-storied, and had such grave defects of construction as to make it a failure. It marks, however, the beginning of the present era of pavilion hospitals and of hospital reform, to which the largest contributions have been made by the experiences of the great wars of the last thirty years. The practical advantages of simplicity of construction were thereby forcibly shown, as well as the value of segregation of the sick, the need of cleanliness in hos- pitals, and the importance of their intelligent management; and with these requisites gained, some extreme views have since become modified, so as to admit of permanency with simplicity. Construction and Organization of Hospitals. Some general considerations naturally present themselves at the outset, when we come to the construction of the hospital building. The general hospital is typical of all, in its embodiment of general principles. The wdiole subject will be treated of here in the order of the procedures that prac- tically would be pursued, were the task of building a hospital actually in hand:— 1. General considerations, including the subject of unhealtliiness of hospitals, and the means of avoiding it. 2. Location, site, and area. 3. Material and foundations of wards. 4. Form and construction of wards. 5. Size of the hospital, and arrangement of wards and accessory buildings. 6. Warming, ventilating, and lighting.