708 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE FEMALE GENITALS. four observed by Huguier, in eight out of nine under the care of Emmet. If the tumor has its origin in the duct, and this is much the more frequent variety, it is unilocular, but it is multilocular if arising from the gland. The contents are usually serous and translucent, but may be jelly-like and choco- late-colored, or simply fluid blood; a case of this kind, originally regarded as an abscess of the vulvo-vaginal gland, but afterward called a labial throm- bus, was observed by Dr. Storer,1 but it was not an effusion of blood into the connective tissue, and therefore did not answer to the ordinary definition of a labial thrombus or htematoma. The size of these cysts varies; rarely greater than that of a walnut or a hen’s egg, it may be as large as that of a goose’s egg, an orange, or, accord- ing to Hildebrandt, a child’s head at birth. If the tumor be small, it will appear solid, and it is then only by the exploring needle or aspirator that a correct diagnosis can be made. In the treatment of these tumors, simple evacuation of the contents affords only temporary benefit, for, the cyst-wall remaining entire and unchanged, the tumor re-forms. Another method consists in the use of a seton, and the results have been favorable. The cyst has been freely opened, and the cyst- wall cauterized with iodine, with nitrate of silver, or with the thermo- cautery; the result is usually satisfactory. The cyst may be extirpated; in this operation great care must be taken in cutting the tissues over the cyst, to avoid opening it, and after the first incision the removal of the tumor should be accomplished chiefly with the handle of the scalpel. If complete removal of the cyst prove difficult or impossible, a part of its wall may be excised, and the remaining cavity may be filled with oakum or carbolized cotton. Rarer cysts have been attributed to clots of blood which have been encap- sulated, or to ectasia of lymphatic vessels. Werth2 has described a cyst the size of a cherry, observed by him in a girl twenty years old, which had not the complicated and typical structure of a retention-cyst, but which originated from a displaced mass of epithelium. Sebaceous cysts bave been frequently met with in the vulva ; though small, they cause considerable annoyance. Dermoid cysts have been rarely seen in this part. Cysts of the nymphse are very rare ; Dr. Wiltshire3 has described two observed by him in different subjects, one tumor the size of a hazel-nut, the other as large as a walnut; they were attached in a slightly pendulous manner, and contained a translucent fluid. Bartelberger4 has recently de- scribed a cyst the size of a lentil, found by him in the hymen of a new-born child, the cyst being microscopically analogous to retention-cysts of the nymphse. Dr. Lusk5 met with a gaseous tumor of the labium, originating, as he believed, in an abscess of Bartholin’s gland that had opened into the rectum, and had left a fistula connecting the gland and the bowel. Lipomata.—Lipomata generally originate from one or the other of the labia majora, or from the mons veneris. Like fibro-myomata they are movable, but they differ from the latter in consistence; this mobility assists in distinguish- ing them from the tumors of elephantiasis. In some cases a lipoma attains an enormous size, as in those reported by Stiegle6 and by Capeile.7 In the former case the tumor, originating from the left labium majus, was fifty-five 1 Journal of the Gynaecological Society of Boston, vol. ii. 2 Centralblatt fiir Gynakologie, 1878. 3 Trans. Obstet. Soc. Lond., vol. xxiii. 4 Archiv fur Gynakologie, 1884. 5 American Journal of Obstetrics, vol. xiii. 6 Zeitsclirift fiir Chirurgie und Geburtshulfe, 1856. 1 Journ. de Med., etc. Bruxelles, 1860.