AFFECTIONS OF THE SCROTUM. 547 Affections of the Scrotum. Contusions and "Wounds of the Scrotum.—When the scrotum is contused, there is extensive extravasation of blood and much discoloration, the tissues becoming black and blue. The application of an evaporating lotion, a bag of ice, or a cold-water coil, is generally successful in removing the effusion. Suppuration rarely follows extravasation of blood, but when it does, exit must be given to the pus by incisions. In wounds of the scrotum the testicle may protrude; it is then to be returned, the wound being enlarged if necessary, and the divided parts brought together by harelip pins or sutures. The wounds heal readily, as the parts are vascular. Cutaneous Eruptions.—The different kinds of prurigo attack the scrotum, and cause great annoyance and want of rest when the patient becomes warm in bed. Small red papules appear on the scrotum, and, owing to the injury to the skin done by the nails in scratching, the parts become scarred and deeply pigmented as in other regions of the body. A great many remedies have been tried for the cure of the disease, such as tonics by day and seda- tives at night to procure sleep, with lotions containing perchloride of mer- cury, sulphur, creasote, vinegar, lime-water, or prussic acid, and ointments of aconitia or tar. Dr. Bowling, of Kentucky, recommends that the affected parts should be sponged for a minute or so with good apple vinegar, and when dry smeared over with the unguentum hydrargyri nitratis. Various kinds of baths are at times useful. Diabetes sometimes leads to an irritable condition of the scrotum. The skin of the scrotum is normally, in some cases, deeply pigmented, and may have scattered here and there on its surface white patches. Pediculi cause a good deal of irritation, and may be seen as black specks attached to the roots of the hairs ; their eggs also are very obvious. Any of the mercurial preparations will soon destroy them. (Edema of the Scrotum.—(Edema, commencing at the bottom of the scro- tum, is met with in cases of dropsy. Both sides of the scrotum are affected, becoming much swollen, with a waxy, smooth, transparent look; the part feels thick and doughy, and pits when squeezed between the fingers. The testicles cannot he readily felt. The cellular tissue of the penis is also dis- tended in cases of general anasarca, and the foreskin is contorted and pro- jects beyond the glans which is hidden; at times, the foreskin having been drawn back incautiously, a paraphimosis results. There will be oedema of the legs and other symptoms of visceral disease. A temporary oedema may be caused by the rupture of a hydrocele or its treatment by acupuncture, which in turn, or the introduction of one or more of Dr. Southey’s trocars, will suffice to relieve the distention if interference be deemed advisable. (Edema ot the scrotum, or anasarcous hydrocele, as it has been called, may occur without the presence of oedema in other parts. A slight excoriation of the skin may be followed by inflammation, which generally subsides under the application ot starch-powder or fuller’s earth, but in some cases erysipelas comes on, the part swells, becomes very oedematous, and may finally slough extensively. It must be remembered that oedema is a valuable indication of deep-seated suppuration, and that pain, heat, redness, and swelling of the scrotum may be due to an acute suppuration of the tunica vaginalis, a condition possibly at times overlooked—the cause of death being assigned to erysipelas or to some other more or less superficial inflammation of the part.1 1 Lancet, vol. i. p. 863. 1883.