CONDITIONS WHICH MAY COMPLICATE DISEASES OF THE URETHRA. 517 each side by passing a blunt-pointed bistoury, F, under the skin, which is loosened all around the fistula. When this manoeuvre is executed, there is a considerable extent of skin, having at the centre the cutaneous oritice, and at each extremity two bridges limited on one side by the fistula, and at the other by the transverse incisions. These integuments are brought together by bringing the freshened surfaces into contact, and fixing them by the twisted or the shotted suture. I shall pass over in silence a certain number of methods, designed for special cases, and which might accidentally be ap- plicable. I think, moreover, that in the immense majority of cases, when urethror- raphy has failed, preference should be given to a method of urethroplasty exactly analo- gous to that which I have applied to the restoration of the urethra in hypospadia— a method which much resembles that which Reybard has described, and which consists in cutting from each side of the fistulous opening two small flaps, sufficient to cover the former by their reversal in- wards, and then in separating the skin of the penis on the sides, so as to cover in the preceding flaps. As to 'suture, I recom- mend especially the shotted suture with a single wire, which I have already described. Finally, when the various methods which I have just described have failed —since one of the most active causes of failure resides in the contact of urine, which, in many cases, neither the employment of the retained catheter nor intermittent catheterization succeeds in preventing—recourse may be had to a practice first recommended by Louis, and then by Viguerie, Dieffenbach, and especially Segalas, a practice which consists in making a perineal incision with the object of turning aside the current of urine while cicatrization of the fistula takes place. It is for the same purpose that some surgeons have advised to dilate a con- comitant perineal or scrotal fistula, and that Malgaigne proposed puncturing the bladder with a canula, which was to be allowed to remain. These various operations evident]}- should not be made a general method of treatment, but they constitute very useful adjuvant measures, to which it may be proper to have recourse in certain especially rebellious cases. Urinary Fever.—Under the names of urinary, urethral, urethro-vesical, and uraemic fever, and of urinary intoxication, resorption, and poisoning, are desig- nated febrile accidents of variable form and intensity, which may occur in the course of diseases of the urinary passages, sometimes without apparent cause, but more frequently after operations even of the most simple character, such as sounding. Velpeau, in 1833, and almost at the same time Civiale, pointed out for the first time the most startling of these accidents; they brought to notice the pathological bond which unites to affections of the urinary passages the phe- nomena of urinary fever, until then unknown in their essence, or misinter- preted. Since then this affection has been the object of numerous studies, to Fig. 1354. Nelaton’s method of urethroplasty.