902 SCROFULO-TUBERCULOUS AND OTHER STRUCTURAL DISEASES OF BONES. who first described the morbid entity, tuberculosis of the bones, separating it from the group caries. After numerous vicissitudes, the idea of the French surgeon was accepted by the whole world, so much so that at the present day tuberculosis only is recognized in chronic osteitis, and caries itself is regarded by many as a tuberculous affection of the bones. Not merely a branch of the group, but the whole morbid group of caries belongs to tuberculosis. In his historical sketch, Professor A. Nekton1 traces back to the earliest times the knowledge of tuberculosis of the bones. He says that Hippocrates and Galen mention tubercle of the bones in the most precise way. Marcus Aurelius Severinus and Mercurialis also speak of it at great length. In 1735, Traugott Gerber treated likewise of vertebral tuberculosis as of a thing well known, and attributed to it the formation of spinal curvatures. The collection of dissertations of Platner contains, finally, a thesis of Frederic Ilaacke, “ the title of which alone, De iis qui a tuberculis gibbosi jlunt, suffices to show what were the ruling ideas at that time in regard to this point of science.” The word tubercle is indeed frequently found in the works of the oldest authors; but this is all. This word had not at first the meaning which we have attached to it since the time of Laennec and Bayle. Every morbid product of small size and of globular or nodular shape was called tubercle. There were scrofulous, syphilitic, and cancerous tubercles, etc. The word tubercle referred only to shape, while now it refers both to shape and to nature; that is to say, to the something which gives rise to general phthisis, and especially to the most common and best known type of this disease, pul- monary phthisis. If, then, the employment of the word is ancient, the idea of the thing is modern. It begins with the immortal works of those French physicians, Bayle and Laennec, upon phthisis. Delpech2 appears to be the first who, with a true notion of tubercle, raised the question of tubercle of the bones. In 1830, Serres, of Montpellier, developed the teaching of his compatriot. In 1835, Nichet, of Lyons, dis- cussing Pott’s disease, like his predecessors, followed their example in con- sidering it a tuberculous affection of the bones.3 Pott’s disease also furnished the subject of the researches made by Reid, of Erlangen,4 Parise,5 Tavignot,6 and others. All these authors studied only Pott’s disease, and endeavored to prove that this disease was not common caries, but a tuberculous affection. “That which Bayle and Laennec did for the lung, in explaining the natural history of the evolution of tuberculosis, remained yet to be done for bone- tissue; this is the point in the pathology of the bones, of which,” says Nela- ton, “I have endeavored to treat.”7 Nelaton distinguishes, in the bones, two forms of tuberculosis. Sometimes the tuberculous matter is found collected in one or several centres, hollowed out of the substance of the bone-tissue (encysted tubercle); sometimes it is infiltrated in the cells of the spongy tissue (tuberculous infiltration). Each of these forms has anatomical charac- teristics which make it possible to differentiate it at all stages of the disease. Thus, the nature and modalities of the affection are well described by Nek- ton, whose doctrine regarded not the vertebrae only, but the whole of the osseous system. There has been cited, as having preceded him in this matter, a physician of the name of Suren, who, in 1834, issued a thesis8 in which he described the miliary and conglomerate, as well as the infiltrated, forms of 1 Siemens de Patliologie Chirurgicale, t. ii. 2 Traite des Maladies Reputees Chirurgicales, t. iii. 1816. 3 Memoire sur la nature et le traitement du mal vertebral de Pott. (Gazette Mddicale.) 4 Annales de la Chirurgie Frantjaise et Etrangere, 1S43. 5 Archives Gdnerales de Medecine, 1843. 6 L’Exp^rience, 1844. 7 Tli&se inaugurale, 1836. 8 De ossium tuberculis. Berolini, 1834.