621 TUBERCULOUS AND SCROFULOUS DISEASE OF TESTIS. tissue, and therefore cannot do so at the expense of the epithelium of the spermatic ducts; but M. Thorn has demonstrated that tubercular granula- tions may arise in the alveoli of the lungs at the expense of the epithelium. Curling maintains “ that the disease is originally developed within the tubes of the testicle; abnormal nutrition in the cellular contents of the tubes induces the formation of miliary tubercles in their walls. This view does not negative the development of tubercle in the intertubular tissue as seen by Virchow, or in the adventitia of the bloodvessels as observed by Vepveu.” Malassez concludes that the gray tubercle takes its start in the seminiferous tubule itself. An affected tube, when drawn out, carries with it the granu- lation-deposit, which is rounded or fusiform, and causes a symmetrical enlargement of the tube. The centre of the nodule corresponds to the lumen of the tube, and contains a finely granular substance, which is due to the proliferation and granular degeneration of the epithelium. The periphery of the nodule is constituted by embryonic elements, and, where the nodule is continuous with the Avail of the seminal tube, the latter is thickened and rich in cells. Generally se\Teral tubes are drawn out together, being incorporated in the mass; to these he has applied the term “ compound,’’ and to the first that of “simple” granulation. Cruveilhier has described a third type of the disease, the fibrous granula- tion, in which the size of the deposit varies from that of a millet-seed to that of a green pea. The connective tissue is in the ascendant: even the granular material of the centre is often absorbed, and only a transparent fibrous mass remains. Neither Reel us nor Malassez is prepared to state positively whether in the testicle the proliferation commences in the intra-tubular epithelium, and makes its way from the centre towards the circumference, following the same course as in the epididymis and vas deferens, or whether it invades the layers of connective tissue from Avithout inwards, finally affecting the epithelium. M. Malassez finds that the grouping of the cells, which are either round and granular, or of large size (migrated cells) and epithelioid in appearance, dis- tinguishes the smallest gummata from tubercles, for in the former the cells are found in the interstitial tissue, apart from the seminal tubes and large vessels ; whereas in the tubercular testis they are found about the canaliculi. Dr. Justus Gaule1 shows that tuberculosis of the testicle is often connected with tuberculosis of other organs, and that it begins in the epididymis as a catarrh of the seminal ducts and spreads thence to the testis. The Avails of the ducts and the intertubular connective tissue become involved. The nodules or tubercles are formed of groups of seminal ducts plugged with the products of catarrhal inflammation, and tend to undergo caseous degeneration ; giant- cell appearances are not uncommon, being formed by the epithelium lining the lumen of a duct, the Avail of which is the seat of a small-celled reticulated growth histologically indistinguishable from tubercle. By caseation and softening, cavities are formed. Gaule suggests the name “ phthisis testis,” as both it and pulmonary phthisis commence by a catarrhal inflammation of tubular structures, which spreads deeper and involves the interstitial tissues; tubercular new formations may be superadded to the inflammatory appear- ances. Billroth2 has endeavored to substitute for the name “ tubercular testis,” the general term “circumscribed chronic (caseous) orchitis,” as often there is no tubercular diathesis present, the patient appearing to be othenvise healthy. The formation of tuberculous nodules in the testicle is scarcely ever due to the coalescence of numerous small miliary nodules into one large mass ; the liruita- Virchow’s Archiv, 1877. 2 Clinical Surgery.