100 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE RECTUM. by pressure, which may be applied by means of Bushe’s apparatus, an instru- ment resembling the colpeurvnter—an India-rubber bag which can be intro- duced in a flaccid state, and afterwards distended with air or iced water—or, perhaps even more securely, by packing the gut around a tube or English catheter provided with an apron, as is done with the perineal wound after the operation of lithotomy. A remarkable case is recorded by Dr. Otis,1 in which a distinguished officer, conducting a retreat under a heavy fire from the enemy, was killed by a ball entering his anus as he leaned forward over his horse’s neck ; no external wound was perceptible, and the nature of the lesion was not recognized until, when the body was embalmed, the ball was found lodged in the patient’s lung. Foreign Bodies in the Rectum.—These may have been directly introduced into the rectum through the anus, or through a wound, or may have de- scended from a higher point, having been swallowed, or, as in the case of gall-stones, having originated in another part of the patient’s body. The variety of substances which have been found in patients’ rectums, having been introduced either by themselves or by others, is very great,2 embracing such diverse substances as pebbles, slate-pencils, diamonds, bottles, beer-glasses, forks, files, snails, and a pig’s tail.3 The symptoms caused by foreign bodies in the rectum are those of local irritation, often attended by great pain, with con- stipation, sometimes ending in complete obstruction. Peritonitis may ensue. The treatment consists in extraction, by such means as may be suggested by the requirements of the particular case and the inventive faculty of the surgeon. Anaesthesia is usually required, and advantage may be derived from thorough dilatation of the sphincter. If necessary, Verneuil’s operation of linear rec- totomy may be performed, as in cases recorded by Raffy and Turgis. Ano- dynes should be given afterwards in the form of suppository. Prompt treat- ment is essential in these cases, as the foreign body, if allowed to remain, may perforate the rectum, causing fistula; may ulcerate its way into the bladder, vagina, or peritoneum ; or may slip up into the sigmoid flexure or descending colon, from which it could only be removed by a more dangerous operation.] Fistula in Ano. Fistula is the most common rectal disease affecting the adult, certainly in hospital practice, and probably in private practice too. Men are more sub- ject to it than women. This disease is most frequently met with during middle age, but it is by no means restricted to that period of life. I have often operated upon infants in arms, and upon men from seventy to eighty years of age. Causes of Fistula in Ano.—The causes of fistula, or of abscess ending in fistula, are : Injuries to the anus; injury to the mucous membrane of the bowel by very costive motions, by straining at stool, or by foreign bodies swallowed (fishbones and the bones of rabbits are occasionally found in rectal abscesses); exposure to wet and cold, and particularly sitting upon damp seats after exercise, when the parts are hot and perspiring. I have traced many cases of rectal abscess to sitting on the outside of an omnibus, shortly after active 1 Medical and Surgical History, etc., Second Surgical Volume, p. 319. 2 See Poulet’s curious Treatise on Foreign Bodies in Surgical Practice, vol. i. pp. 217 et seq. New York. 1880. 3 See Marcliettis’s case, Vol. V., page 994, supra.