997 LYMPHADENOMATA AND EPITHELIOMATA OP BONE. lage which are developed in the fibrous tissue between the trabeculae (osteoid chondromata).” “ Calcareous infiltration in some part of these tumors is almost the rule. Isolated granules are deposited in the fundamental substance of the trabeculae, but the corpuscles surrounded by this deposit do not thereby become bone-corpuscles. These corpuscles never exhibit any other than incomplete prolongations, and in small number. The fundamental substance never becomes lamellar.” “These tumors are formed of a single mass, or if they are lobulated, they never show this disposition in as marked a degree as do ordinary chondromata.” Examination of these tumors with the naked eye does not reveal any characteristic signs. It is only by the microscope that their anatomical diagnosis can be made. Osteoid tumors arise most frequently under the periosteum. They surround the bone and adhere to it. The cortical sub- stance may contain cavities, or may be perforated; but it is always possible to find the old bone in the tumor. The periosteum is pushed back, and afterwards destroyed, and finally the neighboring parts disappear in their turn. Osteoid tumors are situated on the long bones, especially on the femur and the tibia. They sometimes attain enormous dimensions. Their hardness is very marked, their surface is smooth and has only slight rugosities. There is little tendency to ulceration. The age of the patients varies from seventeen to fifty-five years. (Heydenreich.) The course of these tumors is that of malignant growths; they invade the soft parts and the adjacent bones. Osteoid tumors recur in their original position, and become generalized. Metastatic growths are often situated in the lung. A clinical diagnosis is impossible; it can only be said that the tumor is a malignant one. The treatment consists in ablation, if this be possible. When a limb is affected, amputation should be practised above the affected bone. Lymphadenomata of Bone. Lymphadenomata of bone are findings of the dissecting-room. They are usually secondary growths in patients affected with generalized lymphatic tumors. Epitheliomata of Bone. Primary epithelioma of the bones is rare, while secondary epithelioma resulting from propagation of a primary cancerous lesion of the soft parts is relatively frequent. Classical authors do not speak of primary epithelioma of the bone-tissue; and the only complete observation of an affection of this kind has been published by M. Cornil.1 My attention was called for the first time to cases of this sort by M. Ollier, who, in his long clinical experience, has had opportunity to see several examples of the kind. In all cases the patients are somewhat aged, usually between fifty and sixty years, or more, and have been affected in their adolescence with more or less acute juxta-epiphyseal osteitis of a long bone. These inflammatory affections are accompanied by necrosis of the bone-tissue, by abscesses which leave behind them one or more fistulous tracks, which sequestra or fungosities keep open for years. Many a time have I seen patients who have had fistuke for twenty or thirty years, and in one case the fistulous track had lasted for fifty-one years. Under the influence of causes more or less well defined, but of which the age of the patient must 1 Journal d’Anatomie (Robin).