GENU VALGUM. 1051 with his name ; in this method the skin is punctured above the inner condyle with a long, narrow knife, and a small oblique wound is made downwards in front of the condyle, through the synovial membrane, dividing the structures in front of the bone, the knife being kept just to the inner side of the crucial Fig. 1496. Fig. 1497. Trough-splint for genu valgum. Genu valgum after treatment. (From the same patient as Fig. 1495.) ligaments. Down the passage thus made a small subcutaneous saw (Adams’s pattern) is passed, and the bone is sawn through from before backwards, thus separating the inner condyle; the leg is then straightened, the condyle being pushed up to its proper level, where it unites, and the obliquity of the articular surface is thus corrected. In May, 1877, Macewen modified this operation by removing a wedge- shaped piece of bone from the side of the inner condyle, afterwards press- ing together the cut edges of the bone; but in February, 1878, he adopted an entirely different plan, which avoids any interference with the cavity of the knee-joint. In this operation a wedge-shaped cut is made with an osteotome into the lower end of the femur, on its inner side, just above the level of the epiphysis ; the exact spot for making the incision through which the osteotome is passed is found by drawing a transverse line, level with the upper border of the patella, and a second, longitudinal line, about half an inch in front of the attachment of the adductor magnus muscle ; where these lines intersect is the point for the incision. The hone is cut through until it can be either broken or bent so as to allow the leg to be placed in a straight line with the thigh. The operation is performed anti- septically, and has been practised by Dr. Macewen in a large number of cases without the occurrence of any fatality due to the operation itself; in one or two cases suppuration occurred in the wound, the amount of pus varying from a few drachms to several ounces. Dr. Macewen, speaking of this and other