URINARY CALCULUS. 194 said. It is difficult to speak definitely of this class of cases, with the excep- tion of those included in the uric-acid group. A primary acid nucleus is most often composed of uric acid and the urates, and inherited tendencies to stone usually manifest themselves by precipitation of the same salts. Here it is, fortunately, that preventive measures are of most avail; indeed, in this direction only has any serious advance been made. A tendency to lithiasis being recognized by the constant or intermittent occurrence of urates and uric acid in the urine, and especially after one kidney stone has been voided, the problem which arises is, How shall another nucleus be prevented from forming? The answer may be best given under six heads :— (1) Regulation of diet. (2) Attention to exercise. (3) Promotion of elimination by other channels. (4) Dilution of the urine. (5) The use of solvents. (6) Attempts to avoid crystallization in colloidal forms. • (1) Thompson has given this subject more study than any other surgeon, and with a greater measure of success. Uric-acid causation unquestionably lies behind the kidney, in the state of the blood furnished to that organ; and the blood again derives its qualities to a considerable extent from the quan- tity and quality of the food, the state of the digestion, and the effect of air and exercise upon the blood. Physiology would naturally suggest that when the urates are in excess, the diet should be limited in its nitrogenous elements. In practice, however, as Thompson has taught and experience daily proves, the very opposite is the case, and it is the alcoholic, saccharine, and fatty elements of food, and not the meats, which have to be cut off when we propose to reduce habitual tendencies to uric-acid formation. The reason for this seems to be that these elements tend to make the liver “ torpid,” as it is called, and in some way to interfere with the proper elaboration of the blood. In practice, manifest advantage arises from giving up alcohol, especially all sweet fermented and malt liquors, and the stronger wines, Madeira, port, and sherry. Beer, champagne, and liqueurs are very harmful, unless an exception be made for very dry champagne. If some alcoholic stimulant must betaken for the stomach’s sake, or on account of advanced age, or for other reason, a choice should be made among the sound, light, red wines of France—the Bordeaux wines—and the thin Rhine wines; or, if more alcohol be required, a little very old brandy, whiskey, or gin, well diluted in water, may be used. Sugar in any form is harmful, and should be discarded as far as possible from the dietary. Of the different kinds of fat, the same remark holds good, but to a less degree. Fried fats, rich gravy, and pastry are to be condemned ; even milk and pure butter are sometimes harmful, but not always so. These latter substances do not alter in any degree the solid constituents of the urine, if we may place confidence in the results of the experiments of Dr. Bocker, as quoted by Garrod,1 which show that “no influence whatever is exerted on the excretion of water, urea, uric acid, or any other constituent of the urine, by taking from about a quarter of an ounce to three ounces of butter daily.” A proper diet is one composed of meat, especially poultry and fish, bread, all the cereals, green vegetables, salads, and fruits, with sometimes milk, butter, and eggs, if the latter substances agree with the patient’s digestion. Certain kinds of food appear to possess special value. The experiments made conjointly by ITeller and a friend, also referred to by Garrod,1 are sugges- 1 Uric Acid, its Physiology and its Relations to Renal Calculi and Gravel. Lancet, April 21, 1883, pp. 670-G73.