OVARIAN CYSTS AND CYSTOMATA. 803 have all been subjected to laparotomy in mistake for ovarian disease. The three former varieties may be distinguished by the fact that they grow from above downwards, that fluctuation is most marked above, with an area of dulness below, and that vaginal touch and rectal examination by Simon’s method show the pelvic organs to be intact- and disconnected from the tumor. In each, moreover, the viscus involved—kidney, spleen, liver—will usually give some constitutional evidence of its disease ; in renal cysts the fluctuation can generally be traced directly back into the flank, and in splenic, no amount of deep palpation will reveal the serrated edge of the organ. For greater thoroughness, the examination should be made under ether in these obscure cases; but sometimes they baffle every test but explorative incision, which should always be held in reserve. Last year, a middle-aged woman was sent from Virginia to Dr. Emmet, who transferred her to his service in the Woman’s Hospital for ovariotomy. The tumor proving doubtful in character, Dr. Thomas and myself were asked to see her in consultation, and, after a most careful examination, each decided (separately and without knowledge of the other’s opinion), that the tumor was a well-marked splenic cyst. As the patient’s health was not much broken, Dr. Emmet felt disinclined to subject her to the risk of probable extirpation of the spleen, although both his colleagues thought that it could be surely accomplished ; and her husband, becoming alarmed at the opinions given, took her home without operation. A few months after this she became more ill, developed peritonitis, and died. I am informed that at the autopsy, the cyst was found to be ovarian, with a long and thin pedicle, “and entirely free from adhesions of any kind.” The latter statement seems incredible, as it was impracticable to separate the spleen and tumor when the examination was made ; but the lesson taught by such a case is self-evident. Usually renal cysts are more difficult of detection than either splenic or hepatic, from the fact that they are more apt to assume a central position in the abdomen ; and if careful aspiration and Simon’s method of rectal explora- tion fail to demonstrate their character, an explorative incision should always be made. In many cases they have been safely removed by laparotomy. Cysts of the broad ligament have already been referred to, and are of much less importance in differential diagnosis, as they affect health less, and are more easy of cure, either by aspiration or by laparotomy. While it is practically impossible to distinguish them wTith certainty, their presence may usually be inferred from the existence of lighter and more superficial fluctuation, slower growth, less impairment of the patient’s health, a clearer and more limpid fluid on aspiration, complete subsidence and (often) permanent disappearance of the cyst after tapping, and a whiter and more glistening appearance of the cyst-wall on abdominal section. Encysted abdominal dropsy, which was not referred to under the head of ascites, is usually due to slow inflammatory processes which leave sheaths or bands of enveloping lymph, within which large quantities of fluid may be collected. Obscurity here is due mainly to the fact that the intestines can- not rise above the fluid, as in ascites, and that change of posture does not affect the area of fluctuation. Aspiration, with careful analysis of the obtained fluid, examination by the rectum and vagina, and, lastly, an explora- tive incision, are the only means of diagnosis which we possess. Prognosis.—Only the most discouraging prognosis can ever be given of ovarian cysts. Cases are recorded in which they are said to have undergone a retrograde change and to have disappeared spontaneously ; but it is notable that such reports, though frequent enough twenty or thirty years ago, are