990 TUMORS OF THE BONES. other sarcomata by insensible gradations; so that, while treating them as a separate group, I shall include them in the grand class of sarcomata. Vir- chow has added to the tumors already classified a variety formerly described by Muller—osteoid tumors. I shall devote a few words to them. Finally, I shall describe in a third group the fasciculated, and the encephaloid sarcomata, neoplasms which have often been thrown together under the name of osteo- sarcomata. We find them thus described by Schwartz.1 The sarcomata are situated on the long bones oftener than on the short bones, on the lower limb oftener than on the upper, on the bones near the trunk oftener than on bones remote from it, on the extremities oftener than on the body of the bone, and this because of physiological considerations to which I have already referred. Usually the disease begins as a single tumor, but under some circumstances several bones are attacked simultaneously, without there being any possible question of generalization. In a patient under my care, there appeared, at the same time with a sarcomatous tumor of the upper end of the fibula, a number of other tumors of the same nature on the cranium; these neoplasms were absolutely contemporaneous. The size of the original tumor is variable; it may reach a considerable development, and especially in young subjects. I have seen sarcomata of the femur six times the size- of the thigh. In a case of Herrgott’s, the limb could not have been put into a potato-bag. The consistence is variable in different tumors, and even in different parts of the same tumor. The sensation of crepitation is frequently perceived; this is sometimes the parchment-like crepitation, and sometimes a crepitation caused by the breaking of trabeculae of bone, like the crackling of an egg-shell. This peculiar noise, which one does not forget when it has been once distinctly heard, is often of capital importance for diagnosis. The hard tumors push away the organs, distend them, separate them, and cause their atrophy. The soft tumors at first separate the tissues, but then permit themselves to be depressed and to receive the imprint of neighboring organs, in the form of depressions and grooves. The compres- sion acts in different ways on different organs. Compression of the nerves gives rise to paralysis of the innervated territory, to neuritis, and to trophic disturbances. The arteries are rarely destroyed, and remain permeable, though surrounded by the tumor. The veins are flattened, obliterated, and invaded by sarcomatous outgrowths, which protrude from their internal wall and may become the starting-point of emboli. The aponeuroses are thinned, and after- wards perforated. The distended skin becomes frayed, and sloughs, when the tumor has attained a considerable size. Myeloid Tumors.—Synonyms: Medullo-cellular and myeloplaxic tumors; central or myelogenic sarcomata. Pathological Anatomy.—The maxillae are the bones oftenest affected, then come the parts of the skeleton supplied with red marrow, the epiphyses of the large bones, the sternum, the bodies of the vertebrae, etc. M. Ollier2 found seven myeloid tumors of the upper jaw made up ot myeloplaxes; once also the lower jaw, the vertebral column, one of the parietal bones, the tibia, and the phalanx of the index were affected with myeloplaxic myeloid tumors, twice the femur was invaded, and in two other cases the same bone presented a tumor with medullo-cells. In a general way these tumors have a double origin: they may be peri-osseal or intra-medullary, that is to say, periosteal or central. Periosteal neoplasms have been rejected by Vichow in fibro-plastic sarcomata and in osteoid sarcomata. According to other authors, these tumors 1 Osteosarcomes des membres. (These d’agregation.) Paris, 1880. 2 These. Montpellier, 1855.