180 URINARY CALCULUS. In trying to remove an angular fragment with any instrument, there would he great risk of tearing the urethra, and in any such case, or where the stone is quite large, a single, clean, free, longitudinal incision of the urethra at the site of the stone is probably better than other methods. Such incisions heal rapidly if kept clean, and never, in my experience, yield fistulse. All that it is necessary to do, even when the cut is extensive, is, if the urine be ammoniacal, to inject a little warm water through the urethra, letting it pass out by the fistula after each act of urination, when the healing pro- cess is approaching its termination. If the urine be normal, no such precaution is usually necessary. All encysted urethral stones require treatment by exter- nal incision, and the wound must be handled afterward according to general surgical principles. There is a liability for fistula to remain in these cases when the urethra is much thickened and chronically inflamed at the position occupied hy the stone. Preputial Calculi. Sub-preputial calculi are common in China. In Europe and America they are rare. Among 15,000 patients examined by Albers,1 in 1835, only one case of preputial stone was found ; while Lewin,2 among 35,000 hospital patients examined during fifteen years, found only three cases. Iverr,3 on the other hand, declares that the affection is not uncommon in China, and gives a table of 18 personal cases. This malady is encountered at all periods of life. Uncleanness and a tight prepuce are prime factors in its production. The efficient causes are three: (1) calcification of smegma ; (2) retention of a small renal or vesical stone passed from above; (3) ammoniacal degene- ration of urine retained within a tight prepuce. (1) Calcified Smegma.—Every one who has removed from a child a tight, adherent prepuce, has noticed the little white rolls of smegma imprisoned behind the corona glandis. If these masses are retained long enough they acquire considerable size, cause the prepuce to inflame, and, finally, calcify more or less completely. They may subsequently act as nuclei for the precipitation of urinary salts out of urine retained in the preputial cavity. Salkowsky and Zahn have examined these concretions, and have found fat, fatty acids, lime salts (but no uric or phosphoric acid), epithelium, clioles- terine, and bacteria. (2) Retention of a Small Urinary Stone.—This occasionally happens, hut is exceptionally rare, because any stone that can pass the meatus urinarius can, as a rule, also escape at the preputial orifice. It may lodge, however, and then becomes a nucleus for further calculous deposit. (3) Most common among the causes of preputial stone is tightness of the 'preputial orifice and consequent retention within its cavity of a few drops of urine. This residuum decomposes, and deposits triple-phosphate crystals and earthy-phosphatic dust in a magma of mucous colloid, and deposits continue from new portions of urine until stones of considerable size may be formed. The composition of preputial calculi is ordinarily a little urate of ammonium and much triple and earthy phosphate, with a great deal of mucus. They are generally multiple. The least number found in any of Kerr’s cases was two ; the greatest number, 116. They are usually facetted and queerly fitted 1 Journ. der Chir. nnd Augenheilkunde, Bd. xxiv. S. 247. 1836. 8 Ueber Prseputialsteiiie, Bei'l. klin. Wochenschr., Bd. xvi. S. 177 und 197. 1879. 9 New York Med. Journal, xv. p. 283.