646 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. unable to concentrate bis mind on any subject; he is restless, irritable, and quarrelsome, and complains of impairment of memory. The digestion is disordered, and sleep is heavy and unrefreshing. After an emission, there is stiffness and pain in the back and limbs. The bowels are constipated as a rule, and there is at times difficulty in micturition. Motor disturbances, indicated by twitchings of the muscles of the extremities, are followed after a time by sensory symptoms, such as numbness of the spine and extremities, hyperesthesia of the skin, and hot and cold sensations. The latter are some- times so persistent that the patient will wear thick clothing, even on a hot summer’s day. The special senses suffer, and the patient complains of affec- tions of the eyesight—even disorganizing1 changes in the vitreous have been occasionally noticed—and is troubled with buzzing, singing noises in the ears, and slight deafness. Ilis taste and smell are perverted ; he suffers from ver- tigo and headache, and, although not afflicted with insomnia, his sleep is troubled by erotic dreams; his mental depression increases; he becomes hypochondriacal, and devotes his waking hours to the contemplation of his unfortunate state, and to reading works on the sexual organs, written to entrap unfortunates like himself. If, as is likely to be the case, he has in- herited a tendency to epilepsy or insanity, he may become melancholic, with suicidal tendencies. Epilepsy is very frequently associated with spermator- rhoea, the same condition of the nervous system which gives rise to the one disease predisposing to the other condition. Our lunatic asylums afford many examples of epileptics who, one and all, masturbate. Epileptic fits are kept up and intensified by this pernicious habit, although they may not be its immediate result, and castration has been performed for their relief. Besides the above disorders, the patient suffers from irregular pulse and excessive palpitation of the heart, brought on by the least exertion or nervous excitement; a careful physical examination will show that organic disease is absent, a bruit, if present, being due to ansemia. Oppression of the chest, with dry cough and shortness of breath, but with no disease of the lung, is often associated with the palpitations. Dyspepsia is indicated by a feeling of distension of the stomach, tenderness on pressure, eructations, and sour risings. Seminal losses, when present in acute diseases, or in chronic, wast- ing diseases, such as phthisis, aggravate the attendant weakness. "Diagnosis.—If wTe submit a specimen of the suspected fluid to microscopic examination, vTe find spermatozoa present when the fluid is semen. The amount of semen secreted by healthy men varies, and it is diminished by fre- quent intercourse; the spermatozoa have been found to be absent in some instances, after excessive sexual indulgence, by Liegeois and Casper; this is a physiological condition, as the spermatozoa reappear in the semen after the sexual organs have had the requisite rest. The spermatozoa differ in number and development in normal semen, and in cases ot spermatorrhoea the secre- tion is more fluid, wdiile the spermatozoa diminish in number, and are not as well formed nor as active as in health. Membranous appendages adhere to the heads of the spermatozoa in some instances, and are, according to Ivolliker, the remains of the parent cells. Small shining corpuscles are considered to be disintegrated spermatozoa on account of the presence of the remains of the tails, which are adherent to them. Bence-Jones, bfepveu, and Beale have noted long, hyaline, worm-like bodies in urine ; these from their size are thought to come from the deferent canals, as they are too large to originate in the tubes of the kidney or testicle. Under violent sexual excitement, a healthy young man may pass a drop ot clear, sticky, inodorous fluid, free from spermatozoa, which comes from the various 1 Nettleship, St. Thomas’s Hospital Reports, vol. viii.