FISTULA IN ANO. 101 exertion. Predisposing causes are the scrofulous diathesis and certain de- praved conditions of the blood, such as frequently give rise to boils or carbuncles. Here I would observe that sudden and deep-seated suppuration is often found to occur after severe itching in the part, with oidy slight ery- thematous redness on the surface. Fistula in children almost always results from the presence of worms, or from injury to the anal region. Course of Fistula in Ano.—Fistula, in the majority of cases, commences by the formation of an abscess immediately beneath the skin, just outside of the anus ; it is generally said to commence in the ischio-rectal fossa, but 1 am certain that this is the rarer situation. It may also begin by ulceration of the mucous membrane of the rectum, as is seen in phthisical patients ; when it arises in this manner fecal matter collects in the connective tissue, and thus an abscess forms and opens on the outside. Lastly, an abscess may form in the submucous connective tissue of the rectum, and then burst into the bowel. This is its ordinary termination, but it may insidiously undermine the rectum in any direction, and I am convinced that the more serious forms of fistula not uncommonly originate in this manner. Rectal abscess may arise rapidly, when there will be redness, tenderness, and often very acute pain, with constitutional disturbance; or it may be months in formation, and be perfectly painless even on manipulation, the only evidence of the abscess being a flat, boggy, crepitating enlargement which can be felt at the side of the anus. This form of abscess is the most danger- ous, as it is apt, to be neglected ; it has little tendency to open spontaneously, and it results in a burrowing up by the side of the rectum to some distance, as well as under the skin towards the perineum, or buttock, or both. I think, on the whole, by far the most usual course is for the abscess to form rapidly, with great pain, and if not interfered with to burst externally; the patient then becomes suddenly easy, and fancies that his trouble is over. The cavity of the abscess seldom entirely closes, but sooner or later it contracts, leaving a weeping sinus with a pouting, papillary aperture, which may be situated near or far from the anus. It is not often that one sees a rectal abscess very early; either the patient is not aware of the importance of attending to the early symptoms, or he temporizes, using fomentations or poultices ; or even when seen by the surgeon, the proper treatment is not always promptly adopted. I have seen large abscesses painted with iodine, in the hope of obtaining absorption. It is well to remember that, as soon as pus is formed, there is only one method of treatment to be tor a moment considered, and that is incision. It is certainly less damaging to cut into an inflamed swelling near the anus without finding pus, than to let a day pass over after suppuration lias com- menced ; the longer the abscess is left unopened, the greater is the danger of the formation of lateral sinuses. Before any pus exists, rest, warm fomenta- tions, and leeches may cut short the attack, but such a result is very rare. Very small abscesses can be well and easily opened in the following way: The patient being placed on the side in which the swelling exists, the surgeon passes the forefinger of the left hand, well anointed, into the bowel, and then places the thumb of the same hand below the swelling, on the skin. Vow making outward pressure with the finger in the bowel, and thus rendering the swelling quite tense and defined, it being in fact taken between the finger and thumb, a curved bistoury is to be thrust well into the abscess, in a direction parallel to the long axis of the bowel, and made to cut its way out towards the anus; it is well to make a thoroughly free incision, com-