URINARY CALCULUS. 166 ing from the centre to the periphery. The stone is generally very hard. It breaks with a loud noise, upon the application of sufficient force, into angular fragments along its laminae and radiating lines. The amorphous uric-acid calculus is generally of a dirty reddish-yellow color, looking gritty, structureless on section or fracture, perhaps presenting radi- ating lines from the centre. Sometimes it is found with a radiating crack, indicating a tendency to spontaneous fracture, which is said to he more common in this than in the laminated variety. This form is sometimes quite soft, and breaks into irregular, angular fragments. Oxalate-of-lime calculus, or mulberry calculus, was described by Wol- laston in 1797, and occurs next in frequency to uric-acid stone among primary calculi. It is generally round, occurs singly in the bladder, and rarely exceeds the size of a nut. It is usually covered with blunt asperities—whence the name—and varies in color from dark gray through brown to black. Some- times the asperities are crystalline, small, sharply angular, and shining. The oxalate-of-lime stone is commonly mixed with more or less uric acid, the different urates, and some carbonate of lime, with, often, a certain amount of blood. The blood comes from the mucous membrane of the bladder, irritated by the asperities upon the stone, and, lodging in the depressions between these asperities, it becomes incorporated with the stone. The same rough- ness often sets up more or less catarrhal inflammation of the bladder, and leads to a peripheral deposit of phosphates. Hemp-seed, calculus is a sub-variety of the oxalate-of-lime stone. It occurs in the kidney, and is a rounded, smooth, brown-colored body, somewhat resembling a hemp-seed. It is generally of mixed composition, containing oxalate and phosphate of lime in different proportions. Other varieties of oxalate-of-lime calculus have been noted. Dr. Yelloly describes one of a white or pale-brown color, and crystalline in structure throughout. Mr. Poland1 refers to this, and speaks of an oxalate-of-lime calculus which he extracted, pale-brown in color, which immediately crum- bled, there being little or no animal matter in its composition; and still another variety has been described by Mr. Charles Williams, a milk-white calculus of highly polished surface, generally encountered in the kidney, and having no crystals on its surface, but sometimes spinous projections. Oxalate-of-lime stone is excessively hard, and resists the lithotrite more than any other calculus. It breaks with a sharp report into jagged, angular frag- ments. On section it shows concentric laminae, deposited in undulating lines about the nucleus. The layers vary through shades of light yellow and brown, to greenish or blackish-brown. Mixed Piiosphatic or Fusible Calculus.—This is the variety of stone pro- duced by catarrhal changes in the mucous membrane with which, the urine lies in contact. It is this phosphatic material which encrusts ulcers, tumors, and foreign bodies in the bladder. It forms the phosphatic layers about other varieties of stone, and is the concretion commonly encountered in cases of enlarged prostate. In the total list, all stones considered, the fusible calcu- lus stands second, being estimated to form one-twelfth of the total number, against one-seventeenth for oxalate-of-lime stones and five-sixths for those of uric acid. The fusible calculus was described by Wollaston in 1797. It is dull, dirty- white in color, varying in hulk from pin-head size up to that of enormous masses, filling the bladder and weighing several pounds. These stones are 1 Holmes’s System of Surgery, vol. iv. p. 1024.