487 VICES OF CONFORMATION OF THE URETHRA. (3) Opening of the Rectum into the Urethra.—This vice of conformation, which is always complicated by an obliteration of the anus, will be studied with malformations of the anus and of the rectum. (4) Duplication of the Urethra.—True duplication of the urethra, that is to say, division by bifurcation or partitioning of a single and median organ, does not appear to have ever been observed. The glans may, however, have several openings, some opening into the urethra, others terminating in a cul-de-sac. In a case reported by Cruveilhier there was on the dorsal face of the penis a secondary canal, which this author considered to represent the ejaculatory ducts. Finally, there have been observed cases of double penis, joined side by side or superimposed, in which the presence of two urethras was recognized in the same individual. Hypospadia.—Hypospadia is a vice of conformation characterized by fission or absence of the lower wall of the urethra, in such a manner that the canal opens on the lower surface of the penis at a variable distance from the extremity of the glans. This vice of conformation was known to the ancients. Aristotle mentions it; Galen, who describes it clearly, first made use of the expres- sion “ hypospadia,” and Dionis believed it to be due to an imperforate state of the glans, followed by rupture of the urethra. Considered until the end of the last century as a pathological curiosity, but better described as to its nature and its varieties by the authors of the commencement of this century, hypospadia has been the subject of a certain number of separate therapeutic essays by some surgeons, such as Dupuytren, Dieffenbach, and Begin. But its surgical history hardly dates back of the memoir of Professor Bouisson, which appeared in 1861. My own researches upon this subject were first published in 1874, and were completed in 1880. Etiology, Pathogenesis.—Hypospadia is quite a common vice of conforma- tion, which is met with once in three hundred individuals (Bouisson). The causes of it are very obscure. There are, however, quite a large number of facts which prove in an incontestable manner the heredity of hypospadia, and the existence of an original influence which appears to predispose all the members of a family to this vice of conformation. Hypospadia is the result of an arrest of development. As the works of Coste have established, the prostatic and membranous portions of the urethra are developed at the expense of the internal genital organs, in consequence of a gradual coarctation of the vesical cavity, which separates the openings of the spermatic ducts from those of the ureters. The balanic and penile portions are formed at the ex- pense of the external genital organs. The superior external genitcd buds of Coste, situated at each side of the uro-genital sinus or external cloaca, give rise to the corpora cavernosa. These two eminences approach the one toward the other, above the upper angle of the sinus, and unite by their upper or dorsal aspect, leaving between the opposite surfaces a groove or channel with its concavity below. At this epoch there is no distinct sex. The uro-geni- tal sinus, broad posteriorly, is separated from the anus by a transverse par- tition, while in front it is continuous with the inferior groove of the corpora cavernosa. At the same time there appear below the future corpora cavernosa two protuberant spheroidal bodies (inferior external genital buds), presenting at first no difference, no matter what may be the sex of the embryo in which they are observed, and destined to give origin to the scrotum or labia majora. The inferior buds increase the depth of the uro-genital sinus at its middle part. Further back opens the urethra, reduced to its membranous and pro- static portions, whence the vulvar appearance presented by the external geni- tal organs at this epoch of their development. If at this period any cause arrests the work of organization, which has reached the point of the closure