495 VICES OF CONFORMATION OF THE URETHRA. inconvenience to the new canal results from this; in fact, the cicatricial sur- face is almost linear, and it suffices, to avoid ulterior contraction, that half the canal should have a cutaneous surface. Nothing is now left but to unite in the median line the flaps thus dis- placed ; and this is easily done by means of the quilled suture, which I apply in the following manner, in order to make it as efficacious as possible. I employ very tine silver wire, and each point of suture, at a distance of about half a centimetre, is made of a single wire, and not double as in the ordinary quilled suture. The ends of each wire are passed at suitable dis- tances through holes made in small leaden tubes, and, when the constriction is deemed sufficient, the wires are fastened with perforated shot. The tracks of these single wires are almost imperceptible, and they do not make, like the ordinary quilled suture with double threads, large openings at the point of entrance and exit. If the surfaces approximated by this suture leave a slight Fig. 1345. Fig. 1346. Section showing arrangement of deep (a) and superficial (b) sutures. separation externally, union may be completed by a few points of interrupted suture, super- ficially placed. (Figs. 1345 and 1346.) Thanks to this method of suture, which insures perfectly exact contact, and which is solid enough to resist erection, the formation of the new canal is much more easjq and may succeed at the first attempt through its entire extent. This fortunate result has been obtained in several of those on whom I have operated. In any case, if there remain some points where union has failed, it is easy to remedy this by one or more supplementary operations. Third stage: Junction of the two Portions of the Canal.—When it is well assured that the new canal presents no tendency to contraction, and that it is in an altogether satisfactory condition, it remains to join the two portions of the urethra by obliteration of the hypospadic fistula. The circumference of the abnormal opening having been freely vivified for an extent of nearly a centimetre, and a catheter having afterwards been introduced by the new canal into the bladder, the same method of suture as in the preceding stage is applied, that is to say, the quilled suture with single silver wires, passing through two leaden tubes pierced with holes, and fastened at each side with perforated shot. A very interesting and truly difficult question in the execution of the third stage concerns the method of evacuating the urine. I have always done very well by the employment of a retained catheter, left constantly open, so that the urine may escape drop by drop as soon as it reaches the bladder. Modified quill suture