811 UTERINE TUMORS. of perimetritis or pelvic hematocele ; when large, for ovarian tumors, for late pregnancy, either normal or extra-uterine, for fecal impaction, and for hema- tocele. With care, however, their differentiation from most of these condi- tions should be easy. In uterine flexions, the sound and bimanual palpation will always reveal the state of the womb. In early pregnancy, that organ is- soft and compressible, and usually the concomitant symptoms of gestation are present: in the case of fibroma the latter are absent, and the cervix and upper uterus are even harder than usual. In perimetritis the pelvic tissues are boggy to the touch, and there is no definite outline of a tumor. In luema- tocele, whether large or small, the history of the attack and the peculiar phy- sical signs, which are at first those of fi soft, fluctuating tumor, and after- wards those of a boggy, indurated mass, will guide us aright. The uterine position may here be altered, but its consistence will be unaffected, and there will be no induration of the cervix. Ovarian tumors1 are comparatively soft and elastic ; they fluctuate on per- cussion, yield no uterine souffle, and are usually not movable with the uterus. In its later stages normal pregnancy is easier of differentiation than at an earlier period ; for, in addition to the signs specified, we have then the aid of ballottement, of the foetal movements, and of uterine contractions, and the signs of the foetal heart to guide us aright. But, if the foetus be dead or if the pregnancy be extra-uterine, the difficulty of diagnosis is much greater. Here the history of the case, which in fibromata will be one of slow growth and frequent flooding, and the fact that the tumor is firm and unyielding, is of great assistance ; in abdominal pregnancy the gestation sac grows rapidly, while the uterus is of normal size and depth, and its mobility independent of the abdominal growth. Fecal impaction is distinguished by the facts that the tumor pits on deep pressure, and that it exerts little or no influence on uterine health, but much upon the patient’s digestion and habits of defecation. Prognosis.—In considering the prognosis of fibromata, extreme caution should be exercised before a final opinion is given; and the natural course of the disease, the exact variety and nature of the tumor, and the prominent symp- toms present, should all be taken into account. Death occurs with extreme rarity as the direct result of the disease, although, as above noted, cases have occasionally been reported as fatal from sloughing of the tumor and sep- ticaemia, from simple peritonitis due to pressure, from hemorrhage from the sac, and from uraemia caused by renal pressure. On the other hand, the disease sometimes undergoes spontaneous cure; this occurs relatively at the menopause, and absolutely from a variet}' of causes narrated in the cases which Schroeder1 2 has laboriously collected. This author gives the literature of thirty-six cases (Gusserow, after sifting them carefully, reduces the number to thirty) in which a complete cure, with disappearance of the growth, took place. In one of these cases, in which eight fibroids ex- isted, Madge3 says that several disappeared within a short time after labor, and that others diminished in size. In another case, not included in this list. Emmet4 reports that a large and pronounced subperitoneal fibroid disappeared during pregnancy, and that after the patient’s confinement her attendant could find no trace of it. With the details of this case I am myself personally familiar. Still others have been reported by Prof. A. R. Simpson. Besides this process of retrograde metamorphosis and absorption, a perfect cure sometimes occurs through spontaneous expulsion. This may take place 1 See page 795, supra. 2 Ziemssen’s Cyclopaedia, Am. ed., vol. x. p. 242. 3 Trans. Lond. Obstet. Soc., vol. xiv. p. 227. 4 Princ. and Pract. of Gynaecology, p. 544. 1884.