1123 PREPARATION OF MILITARY SURGEONS FOR FIELD DUTIES. In passing a recruit, the medical officer is to examine him stripped; to see that he has free use of all his limbs ; that his chest is ample ; that his hearing, speech, and vision are perfect; that he has no tumors, or ulcerated or extensively cicatrized legs ; no rupture or chronic cutaneous affection ; that he has not received any contusion or wound of the head that may impair his faculties ; that he is not a drunkard ; is not subject to convulsions; and has no infectious disorder, nor any other that may unfit him for military service. The “ Manuals” of Tripler and of Bartholow, now in use in the army as standard authorities, may be consulted in doubtful cases, and the surgeon should speedily familiarize himself with their details. Much detailed infor- mation, with abundant illustration, may be found in the first volume of the “Medical Statistics of the Provost Marshal General’s Bureau,” 1875, but this important subject cannot be considered further here. Medical Equipment for a Regiment.—Having now selected the men who are to compose his regiment, or having been assigned to a regiment without having had a part in the selection of its individual members, the medical officer has to procure the material and appliances for the care of the sick and wounded of his command. It is the most common error of the new army surgeon to procure, or to deem necessary, too great a supply of medicines and other material. It is important to make requisition for only the smallest amount that is really neces- sary, in order to limit the amount of transportation. The question has been exhaustively considered in all its details, and, as the result of accumulated experience, a list of medicines, instruments, dressings, etc., has been prepared by the Medical Department of the army, which is known as the “ standard supply table,” and of which the last edition was issued in 1883. Until the regiment reaches the field of military operations, the following articles may answer the current wants for sickness and wounds:— Fig. 1527. Medicine-pannier. 1. A medicine-pannier (Figs. 1527, 1528), of which there is a standard pattern, and a list of the contents of which is given on page 25 of the “ supply table.” This pannier is conveniently arranged, and should be accessible at all times.