085 TEARS OF THE PERINEUM. Tears of the Perineum. By tear, laceration, or rupture of the perineum, is meant a violent division, complete or incomplete, of the tissues interposed between the lower portion of the rectum and the vagina. This condition has been caused by the extraction of a large uterine polypus from the vagina of a nulliparous woman ; by falling so that the perineum has struck upon the upper part of the back of a chair (Hildebrandt); by injury from the horn of a bull, as in a case reported by Bauer,1 of a servant girl who, while stooping down, milking, in a pasture, was attacked by the animal coming behind her, thrusting his horn into the pudendal rirna, and then suddenly raising his head—the perineum was completely torn—or from the horn of a goat,2 as happened to a delicate woman, 20 years of age, who, carrying a heavy load, did not see a goat lying down just in front of her upon a bridge she was crossing, when the animal, suddenly starting up, thrust one of his horns into her rectum from behind, a little above the anus, the horn then penetrating the vagina, and, as the woman sank back, tearing the lower portions of the rectum and vagina, and the perineum; it has also occurred from jumping out of a wagon on a pile of hay, the handle of a concealed hay-fork penetrating the body at the pudendum, and completely tearing the recto-vaginal septum ;3 and from brutal violence—-as in the case of a girl eight years old, violated by a man of twenty-three, not only almost the whole perineum being torn, but also the posterior vaginal cul-de-sac—4 and in that of a wife whose husband indicted the injury because he sus- pected her chastity.5 * But the accident occurs far more frequently from child- birth than from all other causes. It may occur in either natural or artificial labor. Among its causes in labor are unusual height of the pubic symphysis, narrowing of the pubic arch, lateral deviation of the coccyx, and abnormal concavity of the sacrum. The perineum may be abnormally prolonged in front,® so as to greatly shorten the vulvar orifice, or it may be undilatable,7 as in old primiparse, or as the result of cicatrices from previous trauma- tisms, scrofula, or syphilis; there may also be unfavorable presentations- or positions of the foetus, deviations from the normal mechanism of labor, abnormal size of the foetus or incompressibility of the head, so that moulding is impossible or insufficient, malformations of the foetus, monstrosities, etc. The position of the parturient at the close of the second stage of labor has an induence in causing a perineal tear, this accident, for example, being more likely to occur if she is lying upon her back, or if she is in a half- sitting posture, than if she is lying upon her side. Violent uterine con- tractions, and great voluntary effort, may cause the accident. So, too, in a case of pelvic presentation, the obstetrician may, while bringing down an arm that has departed from the chest, or in the rapid delivery of the head— made necessary in the interest of the child—cause tearing of the perineum. Delivery with the forceps is not an infrequent cause of the injury in ques- tion. But here, too, we must regard the result as coming from the rapid delivery which the forceps renders possible, and which may be necessary in 1 Wiener medizinische Wochenscrift, 1881. 2 Curran, Edinburgh Medical Journal, 1872. 3 Kaltenbach, Zeitschrift fur Geburtshiilfe und Gynakologie, 1879. 4 Colles, Medical Times and Gazette, 1860. 5 Roux, Gazette Medicale, 1834. 6 But if the deviations from the normal length of the perineum are slight, it seems, from Fasbsender’s statistics, that the shorter is in greater danger than the longer perineum. Thus in three^series of subjects in which the perineum was two centimetres, from two to three, and three centimetres, the relative proportion of lacerations was in order 53.8, 33.3, and 24.4. 7 Kleinwachter states that in 50 per cent, of primiparae over thirty years of age, the perineum is torn.