95 ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY OF THE RECTUM. taining the fecal mass to avoid pressure on the sphincter, until the rectum is fully distended. Having already stated 1113' disbelief in their very, existence, I need not waste space in refuting the physiological functions ascribed to them, but will pass at once to the consideration of the muscles of the rectum and anus. Muscles of the Rectum and Anus.—The external sphincter consists of voluntary fibres, which arise by a tendon from the tip of the coccyx, and are inserted into the central tendon of the perineum. It is elliptical in shape, and about half an inch in breadth. Its function is to close the anus under the influence of the will. Mr. Hilton, in his Lectures on Rest and Pain, has so admirably described what we occasionally owe this indomitable little sphincter, that I cannot refrain from quoting him:— The strength and endurance of the anal sphincters are well exemplified by their suc- cessful antagonism to the peristaltic action of the colon and rectum upon large quanti- ties of fluid or solid feculent matter, constantly gravitating towards the anal aperture, guarded by the watchful sphincters. Who is there that has not felt this kind of com- petitive struggle, this intestinal warfare going on within himself, fearing the issue, and has not been thankful for the result, and full of gratitude for the enduring strength of the little indomitable sphincter, which has averted a possible catastrophe. The nerve-supply of the external sphincter is derived from the hemor- rhoidal branch of the internal pudic nerve, and from the fourth sacral. The internal sphincter has already been described, in connection with the circular fibres of the rectum of which it is only an accentuation. Its nerve- supply is derived from Auerbach’s plexus, and also from the hemorrhoidal branch of the internal pudic. The levator ani is an irregularly quadrilateral muscle, which, with its fellow of the opposite side, forms a kind of inverted cone with two openings in- feriorly for the transmission of the rectum and the urethra, in the male, the vagina of course in the female also passing through it. It arises from the posterior surface of the descending ramus of the pubis, sometimes from the articular cartilage, from the white line which marks the division of pelvic into obturator and recto-vesical fascia, from the internal surface of the spine of the ischium, and from the lesser sacro-ischiatic ligament. From this ex- tensive origin most of the fibres pass down towards the median line, and are inserted as follows : The anterior fibres course down along the side of the prostate, beneath which they meet their fellows at the central tendon of the perineum ; the middle fibres are inserted into the side of the rectum; and the remaining fibres pass between the rectum and coccj^x into a median raphe, the posterior of these being inserted into the sides of the coccj’x. It should be mentioned that a set of fibres belonging to the levator ani have been described as almost horizontal in direction, arising from the pubis and being inserted into the coccyx. The action of the levator ani is likely enough to become a subject of dispute, as recently a new theory has been started, namely, that this muscle assists defecation by compressing the rectum at a point about two and a half inches from the anus—the point, in fact, at which the horizontal fibres are said to cross the rectum. I myself am not }^et a convert to this novel view, and prefer to regard the levator ani, first, as an antagonist of the dia- phragm and abdominal muscles when compressing the abdominal contents ; secondly, as an antagonist of the sphincters in defecation by opening the anus. As this muscle when in action exerts pressure 011 the neck of the bladder through the fibres passing to the central tendon, thus preventing urine from entering the urethra, micturition and defecation cannot well occur