VITAL AND ORGANIC LESIONS OF TIIE URETHRA. 479 ance to different methods of treatment, have led surgeons to propose for it grave operations, which, while sometimes furnishing complete cures, never- theless expose the patient to serious and even fatal accidents. Treatment.—As symptomatic contracture generally recovers with the disease of which it is a symptom, it is against the latter that treatment should at first he directed, but if the contracture outlasts the cause which has given rise to it, or if there he an idiopathic contracture, recourse must be had to special treatment, both general and local. The general treatment varies according to the patient’s state of health, and according to the predominance of certain symptoms. For enfeebled, anaemic subjects, the preparations of iron and cinchona are indicated. For the nervous, and when painful symptoms are well marked, antispasmodics should he pre- scribed, and anodynes: the bromide of potassium, the bromide of camphor, the oxide of zinc, the valerianate of ammonium, of quinine, etc. For the rheumatic, the iodide of potassium, colchicum, and the alkalies may be use- ful. But, whatever may be the probable cause of the contracture, it may be said, in a general way, that, in the absence of special contra-indications, hydrotherapy is one of the modes of treatment which gives the best results. With a number of patients in whom all the resources of general and local therapeusis had failed, this method has secured for me, if not complete cure, at least considerable amelioration. The local treatment of contracture is of great importance, and often furnishes good results. It comprises the employment of a number of methods. One of the most simple consists in the introduction of larger and larger sounds, which act on the one hand by diminishing the sensitiveness of the canal, and on the other hand by producing progressive distension of its muscular tunic. In fine, it is a method absolutely similar to the method of slow and progressive dila- tation which is employed for organic strictures of the urethra, and which I have already described. Flexible bougies may be employed, introducing them every day, increasing the calibre of the instrument, and leaving it in place for several minutes. Again, use may be made of the series of pewter sounds, known by the name of “ sondes Benique.” In certain cases, in which there has been great difficulty, renewed at each sitting, in introducing a bougie, I have left the instrument in place, absolutely as if there had been present an organic stricture of the urethra, and this practice has served me well. If progressive dilatation prove insufficient, recourse may be had to cauteri- zation of the neck of the bladder, according to the method devised by my colleague Guyon, and which consists in instilling a few drops of a solution of nitrate of silver (1 to 50,1 to 30,1 to 20) by means of a hollow bougie- d-boule and a Pravaz syringe. Without dwelling upon the details of this little operation, which is described in all special works on urethral affec- tions, I will merely say that the hollow bougie being introduced until the bulb has penetrated to the muscular portion of the urethra, the surgeon, with one hand, fixes it in this situation, while with the other hand he in- sinuates the canula which terminates the syringe of Pravaz, and gently forces in the fluid. The quantity ought not to exceed fifteen or twenty drops. This little operation should be repeated every two or three days. In spite of the successes obtained by this method of treatment, it is far from being always efficacious, and the surgeon may then be obliged to come to graver operations, like sudden and forced dilatation, or cystotomy. Forcible dilatation of the neck of the bladder, tried by Recamier, Civiale, and Nelaton, has been recommended by Tillaux, who has designed two dilat- ing instruments, one for men and the other for women. I have had recourse to this operation; and in two cases, in which other measures had failed, I thus obtained an almost complete cure. I used in both cases the divulsor