INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS OF THE BONES. 856 successive ossification of the osteoblasts furnished by the osteogenic layer of the periosteum. Although less obvious than the increase in length, this increase in thickness goes on constantly until the consolidation of the epi- physes with the shaft, and continues insensibly for a long time afterwards. This activity of the subperiosteal elements explains how the internal sur- face of the periosteum is also frequently the point of departure for osseous inflammations, which may be limited, or may extend. In the latter case, they spread all round the bone, and may reach the medulla through the juxta- epiphyseal regions, bringing about those isolations of the diaphysis, or those more or less extensive necroses, which so often necessitate our interference. The central medulla may also be the point of departure for acute inflam- mations, which immediately become grave because of the facility of their propagation to the whole of the bone, and of the favorable conditions which they present for jiysemic or septic poisoning. A continual work of absorp- tion and deposition of bone-substance takes place on the internal face of the medullary canal; whence the disposition of this region to be also a point of departure for inflammations of bone during the period of growth. Independent of the physiological causes which explain the origin and the places of election of inflammations of the bones, we must concede a consider- able part to traumatisms, and not only to violent traumatisms, which are relatively rare, but also to those slight and transiently painful traumatisms which, in spite of their frequency, very constantly pass unperceived in young children. The causes which set up, in delicate and scrofulous children, juxta-epiphy- seal osteitis, have not been adequately appreciated, and, without seeking to explain its mechanism, it lias been deemed sufficient to say that it is the result of the scrofulous diathesis or of a tuberculous affection. What explains to my mind this localization in a multitude of cases, is the juxta- epiphyseal strain produced by violent movements of the articulations, and by the falls which are so frequent in early age. Violent movements of the joints in young children do not generally produce appreciable articular lesions, but they react upon the bone above the connecting cartilage, that is to say, upon the spongy tissue of the juxta-epiphyseal region, which is the weakest part of the bone, and the least capable of resisting twists, exag- gerated compression, or forced movements. Under the influence of these different traumatisms, there take place in the juxta-epiphy seal bone-tissue, crushings, trabecular fractures, separations of the periosteum and of the dia- physeal cartilage, which may be the starting-point of any of the forms of osteomyelitis.1 The bone-cells of the epiphyses themselves likewise feel the effects of these shocks and violent movements, but here their effects are less apparent in experiments on the cadaver. However, they explain the development of epiphyseal osteitis, which is so often the origin of acute or fungous arthritis m young subjects. Juxta-epiphy seal osteitis, developed in the long bones of the limbs, is usually single, but is sometimes double in the same bone. It passes from one end of the diaphysis to the other, either along the periosteum or along the medullary canal. Usually the inflammation leaves traces of its passage along the whole of the diaphysis, by giving rise to more or less appreciable suppurations of the periosteum or medulla; but at other times it traverses the diaphyseal tube without stopping there, giving rise perhaps to a few osteophytes under the periosteum, or to a few medullary ossifications, and going on to suppuration only in the two ends of the diaphysis, in the juxta- 1 De l’entorse jaxta-epipliysaire (Revue Mensuelle de Medecine et de Chirurgie, 1881).