1093 CONSTRUCTION AND ORGANIZATION OF HOSPITALS. and ground space for tents for summer use, while the permanent wards are being renovated ; but it may be put down as essential that there should be pavilions of moderate size, of permanent material, and of one, two, or three stories, according to their purposes, with sufficient space, per bed, in the wards, and between the buildings; and that the question of capacity should be subordinate to these requirements. Wooden structures may be used, of course, for temporary and special purposes. The general principles thus briefly stated as essential, are so far accepted at the present day, as to practically form the basis of all recent hospital con- struction. They are the results of much trial and cost of life and money, and the processes through which the best ideas have survived, have been long and toilsome, as the history of the subject shows. These axioms have been formulated from experience gained in advance of the more scientific investi- gations of the cause of the evils that have beset establishments for the care of the sick. These evils may be now considered as the thing's to be avoided, and as furnishing reasons for the accepted dicta of hospital construction. The sole purpose of the hospital is to treat the sick and wounded, and nothing should be admitted into it or its construction to conflict with that purpose. It should be a healthy hospital. A reasonable amount of archi- tectural grace and adornment may be allowed, inside and outside, to satisfy the aesthetic sense of those who build or endow public or private hospitals, and in some degree such ornamentation will be good for the sick also; but this should not be allowed to impair in any way the healthfulness of the building. Mr. Simon has defined a healthy hospital to be “ a hospital which does not, by any fault of its own, aggravate ever so little the recovery of the persons who are properly its inmates; .... and the fault of its own, through which an unhealthy hospital fails to attain the best results for its medical and surgical treatment, is of two kinds—either it is an inherent fault, as of site and construction; or else it is a fault of keeping, as dirtiness, or overcrowding, or neglect of ventilation.” ISTo better statement than that just quoted could be made of the real truth in regard to so-called “ hospitalism,” which is defined by Mr. Erichsen as a term which means “ a general morbid condition of the building, or of its atmosphere, productive of disease.” Sir J. Y. Simpson evidently intended, in his original use of this term, to declare that the tendency to the generation of septic diseases in hospitals was in proportion to their size and age, because of the accumulation of danger by the aggregation of the sick and wounded in them. There are different sources of impurity in a hospital ward. The gases emanating from the lungs and bodies of the patients, and from decomposing excretions, secretions, etc., may be sufficiently diluted with fresh air to pre- vent injury to health. Certain classes of cases, as of organic, renal, gastric, cardiac, and nervous diseases, rheumatism, etc., may be treated together in large number with little danger of generating septic influences. " But the chief danger arising from the aggregation of the sick, is from the cases pro- ductive of disease-germs—cases of infectious disease, of inflammations of the mucous membranes, of fever, of unhealthy wounds, etc. From these the germs or particles of poisonous organic matter may be conveyed by uncleanly hands, clothing, instruments, and utensils; or being dried, and becoming what La Roche calls “ vehicles of contagion,” they lodge and collect in cracks and upon projections, to again resume their atmospheric journeys. These particles, coming in contact with the living body, may generate various morbid processes according to its conditions and the place of con- tact. Dilution of the air does not lessen their virulence, and disinfectants do not effectually destroy them. Many may be carried away by good venti-