BAR AT NECK OF BLADDER. 365 the use of anodyne suppositories, will be found most serviceable. Where there is hemorrhage from the ulcerating surfaces, the use of a weak injection of nitrate of silver (gr. J-fSj) has proved of much value, although as a rule, after the diagnosis has been made, all instrumental interference with the bladder is to be avoided. Bar at !Neck of Bladder. An impediment to micturition is sometimes occasioned by a condition to which the term “ bar at the neck of the bladder” has been assigned. Though occurring independently of any enlargement of the prostate, it is generally associated with it. A careful analysis of recorded cases warrants the conclu- sion that at least three varieties of the affection may be described, namely: (1) spasmodic, (2) mucous, (3) muscular. A spasmodic barrier has long been recognized, chiefly by French authori- ties,1 under the term contracture du col vesical. It may be found where no enlargement of the prostate exists, and appears to consist of an incoordinated or spasmodic action of some of the muscles engaged in the act of micturition. It is almost invariably met with in persons of a rheumatic or gouty disposi- tion, who pass highly acid or otherwise disordered urine. Hence its cure lies in the treatment of the diathetic condition which leads to its production. In addition to the ordinary remedies employed for gout and rheumatism, advantage may often be obtained from a course at certain watering places; of these may be mentioned Vichy, Vais, Contrexville, and Evian. When the exciting cause of the spasm has been removed, much benefit may be derived from the application to the prostatic urethra of a solution of nitrate of silver (gr. ij-fij), for the purpose of removing the extreme sensitiveness which sometimes remains. The other two varieties of bar I have never seen apart from enlargement of the prostate, of which condition I regard them as results. Mr. Guthrie appears to have been one of the first to observe these changes, and to suggest means for their relief. The formation of a mucous bar may be well studied in certain varieties of symmetrical enlargement of the lateral lobes of the prostate. In some of these specimens, a distinct, crescentic duplicature of mucous membrane can be seen guarding, so to speak, the vesical orifice of the urethra ; its connection with the lateral prostatic enlargements may often be rendered very obvious by separating the lobes after the urethra has been opened along its roof, when greater or less distinctness is given to the bar according to the amount of separation effected. In fact, a bar may in in this way be artificially produced which does not exist in the undisturbed relations of the parts. That in some cases an impediment to micturition independent of prostatic hypertrophy may be thus produced, is apparent from an examination of the internal meatus before a section of the urethra has been made. This variety of bar may exist when rectal examination affords little evi- dence of prostatic enlargement, the reason being that the latter consists for the most part of a lateral expansion of the gland, which is only indicated by some increase in its breadth, and possibly by a slight obstacle, or hitch, as the catheter reaches the prostatic urethra. It is almost impossible to disassociate it in its symptoms from the hypertrophy of which it is a result. The third variety, or muscular bar, consists of an aggregation of some of the muscular fibres which run transversely across the trigone behind the 1 Delefosse, Lecjons Cliniques sur la Contracture du Col Vesical. Paris, 1879.