562 INJURIES AND DISEASES OP THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. 1 Trans. Path. Soc. Lond., vol. xxiv. 1878. observers say that the left side is the one most commonly affected, but the difference is hut slight; in about ten per cent, of all cases, the hydrocele is double. Any cause that induces a flow of blood to the testicle, or prevents its return, may cause a hydrocele to form. In tropical climates the disease is frequent, and Sir Joseph Fayrer found that in India it was often to be ascribed to a malarial cause. Dr. Manson suggested that the disease in China was at times produced by slight obstructions in the lymphatic vessels, owing to the presence of til a rise. Dr. Bancroft has discovered microscopic filarise in the chylous fluid removed from a hydrocele. He has also found adult filarke (Filarise Bancrofti) in clear fluid.1 Injuries or strains at times give rise to hydrocele. In cases of dropsy, the scrotum and penis are much distended with fluid, but the tunica vaginalis is empty ; in one case, owing to a communication existing between the tunica vaginalis and the peritoneal cavity, the former was much distended by the ascitic fluid. In some instances a loose body in the tunica vaginalis will cause a hydrocele which is difficult to cure. Relapses after operation also occur when the hydrocele is associated -with chronic orchitis, a condition of things to which the term hydro-sarcocele has been applied. The irritation set up by tubercle, or by simple or malignant tumors of the testicle, causes effusion into the tunica vaginalis, which adds to the difficulties of diagnosis. Symjitoms.—In general there is no difficulty in diagnosing cases of vaginal hydrocele, which, owing to the absence of pain, are, as a rule, of some size before they attract the patient’s attention. The swelling first shows itself at the lower part of the scrotum, and gradually makes its way upwards towards the inguinal canal ; it is pyriform in shape, with the apex or stalk of the pear, formed by the spermatic cord, upwards; the cord usually can be easily felt. On balancing the tumor in the hand,' it is found to be much lighter than its size wToul<l seem to indicate, and on squeezing it, if it be not very tense, the fluid can be shifted from one part of the swelling to another; on tapping it sharply with the middle finger of the right hand on its front aspect, as it rests in the palm of the left hand, the vibrating thrill so charac- teristic of fluctuation will be readily perceived. In most cases the swelling is transparent, as can be demonstrated in several ways. The swelling may be made as tense as possible by grasping it above and behind with one hand; the ulnar side of the other hand and the little finger are then placed along the front, convex surface of the tumor, and, the room having been darkened, a liglit supplied by a taper or wTax match is placed so as to illuminate the swelling and the back of the hand. If the swelling be transparent a red glare will be" seen, and the situation of the testicle will be marked by the dark shadow caused by its want of transparency. For the purposes of class de- monstration, the use of the darkened ophthalmic room is convenient. The electric incandescent coil contained in a small glass globe, which has been devised for the examination of throats, is likely from its brilliancy of illumination and convenience of application, to be useful in demonstrating the transparency of a swelling, especially in cases of encysted hydrocele of the cord, where the application of a naked light is awkward. On taking a patient into the ophthalmic room for the purpose of ex- amination, or rather for demonstration, for I had tapped the man some time previously for hydrocele and had also demonstrated on that occasion its trans- parency, I was surprised to find that the swelling was no longer transparent; fluctuation was, however, very evident, so that I introduced a trocar and canula, and drew off some blood-stained fluid. The man, who was a shoe-