514 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE URETHRA. may act in tlie production of urethro-penile fistulas. I will not return to them then, but I will confine myself to mentioning the most frequent causes of these latter fistulse. Among these causes we must place in the first rank traumatisms: simple or contused wounds, and especially wounds with loss of substance, such as those which are produced by projectiles of war. In connection with these should be noted a variety of traumatism altogether peculiar to this region, I mean constriction of the penis by an encircling band, such as is sometimes seen in infants. In these cases the urethra may be opened, or even completely divided, after the fall of the eschar. Urethro-penile fistula may also be the consequence of strictures of the urethra, and may be produced according to the mechanism already described. Finally, more frequently than in the case of other fistulse, there have been noted as the origin of urethro-penile fistulre peri-urethral abscesses, suppura- tive inflammations of the glands of the urethra, and chancres, especially phagedenic chancres; all causes which act by determining perforation of the canal from without inwards. Pathological Anatomy.—Urethro-penile fistula1 present, because of the region which they occupy, quite peculiar anatomical characteristics. The fistulous track is always straight and very short, rarely exceeding a centimetre; some- times it even seems not to exist, the two orifices being almost blended in one, and the skin and mucous membrane being almost immediately continuous one with the other, in consequence of the thinness and atrophy of the spongy body in the neighborhood of the urethra. Contrary to what is so frequently observed in perineo-scrotal fistulre, urethro-penile fistulte are exempt from pro- longations and diverticula, and the sinuses are single; sometimes perpen- dicular to the axis of the canal, the fistulous track is usually oblique from behind forwards, so that the external is nearer to the glans than the inter- nal orifice. The single internal orifice has a construction peculiar to these fistulas: it has the shape of a funnel, quite broad on the side of the canal, and growing narrower to become continuous with the sinus. The external orifice is lined with a shining, smooth, thin membrane, very adherent to the sub- jacent tissues, and generally destitute of granulations. Although the orifice is usually single, there have been seen sometimes, especially at the level of the glans and more especially of the fossa navicularis, extremely small, multi- ple orifices. In a case of obliteration of the meatus urinarius, Lallemand1 observed the presence of a large number of small fistulte at the level of the glans, which resembled the spout of a watering-pot. The cutaneous orifice is sometimes buried, depressed, concealed under a fold of skin, and hard to discover. Finally, the indurations and callosities which are so frequent in fistulas of the perineum and scrotum, are not generally met with about the external orifices of urethro-penile fistulse. In fistulte with considerable loss of substance, the skin adheres intimately to the walls of the urethra, and is, so to speak, continuous with the mucous membrane. The dimensions and forms of these fistula} are very variable: sometimes they are very fine channels hardly admitting a bristle; sometimes they reach a diameter of a centimetre or a centimetre and a half, or more. Whilst some are, so to speak, destitute of an intermediate sinus, some have been seen in which this measured two or three centimetres in length, or even reached six centimetres, as in an example cited by Jobert.2 Symptomatology and Diagnosis.—Independent of the external characteristics of the fistulous opening which have been already described, the symptoms of 1 Bermond, Considerations pratiques sur les r6trecissements. Graz. Med. p. 158. 1838. 2 Traite de Cliirurgie Plastique, t. ii. p. 164.