555 AFFECTIONS OF THE SCROTUM. Op. cit., vol. ii. p. 465. charge which is very offensive. In some instances horn-like projections are formed. At times the warts are numerous, becoming branched at their free portion, and forming a cauliflower-like mass. The cellular tissue becomes infil- trated, at times to a considerable extent; the skin gives way, and ulcers form, which are characterized by being attended with pain and presenting a surface which is irregular; the sore may be more or less excavated, having Fjgl 1301- thick raised edges; its surface exudes thin offensive pus, and is devoid of healthy granulations, the ulceration spreading and showing no tendency to heal. The disease varies in extent; at times the whole of the skin and cellular tissue of the scrotum is converted into a thickened, indurated mass, forming a sort of cuirass inclosing the testicles, which remain healthy. The irritation of the disease causes enlargement of the inguinal glands which may subside after operation. If an operation be declined, the glands in the groin be- come infiltrated with cancer-cells, en- large, often soften, and ulcerate exten- sively. In consequence of great pain, free discharge, and repeated bleedings, the patient becomes cachectic and gradually sinks. Free removal of the disease is the only treatment to be recommended, and this is fortunately Epithelial (cLlmney-eweep’^cancer of ecrotnm ; attended with much success, as the lymphatic glands are affected late in the disease; if not much implicated, they should be dissected out at the time of the operation. When the case is not one suited for operative interference, opium is to be exhibited freely to relieve pain, and various antiseptic applications may be made to correct the fetor. The warts are not unlike those met with under other circumstances, but the cancer-cells infiltrate the surrounding tissues, which ulcerate, and the disease extends, affecting the skin superficially and showing no tendency to heal. The appearance, occupation, and history of the patient must be carefully considered in arriving at a diagnosis. Mr. Curling narrates a case of subcutaneous tumor, probably developed in one of the follicles ot the scrotum, which was the size of a hazel-nut, and wholly composed of epithelial cancer-tissue, the skin covering it being unbroken, though adherent to the growth. Sir James Paget1 says that soot does not determine the growth of cancers, but produces a state of skin which provides an apt locality for epithelial cancer in persons of a cancerous diathesis. On microscopic examination of scrotal epithelioma, masses of large cells- are seen, some of them containing epithelial nests. In some are sections- of hairs, very much enlarged and altered. Between the masses of large epithelial cells, there is a fibrous stroma containing round cells. The speci- men from which the drawing (Plate XXXV., Fig. 8) is taken has been doubly stained; the masses of large epithelial cells have taken one color (red), while the cells in the stroma have taken another (green).