€68 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE FEMALE GENITALS. 1 Hegar und Kaltenbach, op. cit. body floating in a liquid, and has been compared by Pajot to the movement given a piece of ice floating in a glass of water by a quick tap with the fin- ger; the movement is double—first, the receding of the ice, and then its return so that it strikes the finger left in the position it was in after moving the ice. Abdominal ballottement is a valuable sign of pregnancy, and yet, in a case mentioned by Pajot, it was observed in cystic ovarian disease. Cazeaux recommended, in the diagnosis of early pregnancy, having the woman lie upon her side; the hand of the examiner, placed between the side and the bed, recognizes foetal parts which may be readily displaced, and which quickly return to the place previously occupied. The late Dr. Albert II. Smith not only placed the patient upon her side, but also had the abdo- minal wall project over the edge of the bed, and indeed be made somewhat dependent; one hand of the examiner was placed beneath the projecting abdomen and supported it, while the other made counter-pressure upon the opposite side; ballottement can thus, in case of pregnancy, be satisfactorily recognized. A diagnostic mark of fluid collected in tissues or in a cavity, is fluctuation, a term, however, which includes two analogous but different sensations, only one of which may be present. Thus in cystic disease of the ovary or of the broad ligament, if the tumor be large, a very distinct wave may be felt with one hand applied by its palmar surface to one side of the enlargement, wThile a quick tap is given the opposite side with the fingers of the other hand ; and again, when the pulp of the index finger of each hand is placed upon a tumor, and then one finger is depressed while the other remains fixed, or when the fingers are alternately depressed and raised, a sensation of displaced fluid is recognized. In either case, fluctuation is said to be present. If, however, the tumor he deep seated, or have very thick walls, the recognition of fluctua- tion is difficult; and, on the other Jiand, solid tumors that are oedematous, or that have undergone fatty degeneration, may give what is called false fluctuation. Combined Examination.—(1) Abdomino-vaginal; (2) Abdomino-rectal; (3) Yesico-vaginal; (4) Vesico-rectal; (5) Vagino-rectal; and (6) Abdomino- uterine. The first two are the most important. Abdomino-vaginal Examination.—By this one learns “ the position, volume, and form of the uterus, the relations of this organ with its appendages, especially with the ovaries, and finally the character of tumors seated in the pelvis.”1 The position of the patient is that in which vaginal touch is usually practised. In making the examination as it relates to the uterus, the index finger of one hand is passed into the vagina so as to touch the os uteri, while the other hand is placed upon the abdomen, and the fingers directed at first towards the lumbar vertebrae, and then downward to the inlet, so as to press upon the uterus. This organ is known to be included between the external hand and the internal finger, by the fact that a movement given the solid mass by one is felt by the other. By increasing the pressure of the external hand from behind forward, the uterus may be more or less anteflexed or anteverted; a reverse movement may cause retroversion. If the finger be placed in the anterior cul-de-sac, while the hand presses the uterus forward and downward, the thickness and sensibility of the organ may be estimated ; the same end is attained by placing the finger in the posterior cul-de-sac while the organ is pressed downward and backward. Tumors or effusions in the anterior or in the posterior cul-de-sac, infiltra- tions of the vesico-vaginal wall, or of the connective tissue joining the bladder