865 DIFFERENT CLINICAL FORMS OF SPONTANEOUS OSTEITIS. As numerous as have been the investigations of this affection during the last thirty years, no approach has yet been made to giving an exact demon- stration of the problem. For some years prevailing views have led many observers to seek for a specific microbe. In France, Pasteur; in Germany, Lucke, Recklinghausen, Rosenbach, Kocher, Becker, and others, have pub- lished important works on this question. Micrococci have been described which have been regarded as specific; they have been found in the blood, and in the different tissues of the organism; but it has not been possible to cultivate them, or at least to reproduce, by inoculating them, an affection like that which furnished them. The recognition of these microbes is so difficult, their differential charac- teristics are so slightly marked, that it would be premature to formulate an opinion from the evidence which we possess at the present time. Becker,1 however, having injected a culture-fluid into animals in which he had just produced a traumatism of bone, succeeded in multiplying the micrococcus in this new soil, and found it constantly in the blood and pus. Pasteur had announced the analogy of the microbe of osteo-myelitis with that of furuncle. Kocher does not admit any difference between the micrococcus of osteo-myelitis and that which is found in the acute inflammation of wounds. However it may be as to the specific character of these micro-organisms, which we should not yet either reject or adopt, we shall find in our clinical study of the affection strong reasons to admit a primary infection. In some patients, general phenomena open the scene: intense fever, delirium, and prostration. The case might be thought one of typhoid fever, and this error of diagnosis is so frequent that it is in medical wards that there is most frequently opportunity to observe cases of infectious osteo-myelitis. Some- times, indeed, the patients succumb so quickly that there is hardly time to suspect the hone-lesion. This lesion is found at the autopsy, but it is of such slight extent that it cannot be considered as the direct cause of death. These cases seem to me to be rare, but they are met with nevertheless. Here is one which I have recently observed :— A month ago my colleague, Dr. Laure, physician to La Charite, communicated to me the notes which he had collected in regard to a child, nine years old, who had died in three days of an infectious osteo-myelitis. Without any known cause, without any appreciable traumatism, this child had been seized with severe fever, delirium, dryness of the tongue, and then profound prostration. Looking for the signs of typhoid fever, M. Laure discovered a little doughiness around the right hip ; while any movement of the part made the child cry out. He then diagnosticated an infectious osteitis of the hip, and thought of practising resection of the joint. The operation was postponed to the next morning, but in a few hours the child died. At the autopsy, which could not be made complete because of the opposition of the family, there were found in the hip-joint one or two spoonfuls of sero-sanguinolent fluid, slightly purulent. The synovial membrane was slightly injected, but there was no alteration of the head of the femur. At the bottom of the cotyloid cavity, there was a loss of substance a centi- metre square, affecting the cartilage covering one of the pieces of bone which form the cavity. At the bottom of this loss of substance of the cartilage, the bone was bare and infiltrated with pus. The corresponding pelvic periosteum w'as thickened and infiltrated, but there was no sub-periosteal abscess. In the lung there was a small metastatic abscess ; on the pleura there were three or four elevations resembling a commencing tuberculous eruption. The pus collected from the denuded portion of bone was inoculated upon two rabbits without result. The pus from the little metastatic focus in the lung was culti- vated by M. Chauveau, and inoculated, equally without result, upon other animals. Iu cases of this sort we can scarcely consider the bone-lesion as the start- ing-point and source of the general phenomena. There was an anterior nior- 1 Becker, Deutsche med. Wochensclirift, No. 16, 1863; Progres Medical, 19 Janv. 1884. VOL. VI.—55