(301) LITHOTRITY. BY WM. H. HINGSTON, M.D., D.C.L., L.E.C.S.E., Etc. PROFESSOR OF CLINICAL SURGERY IN THE MONTREAL SCHOOL OF MEDICINE ; SURGEON TO THE HOTEL-DIEU HOSPITAL, MONTREAL. The operation for the removal of stone in the bladder has always been considered one of the most dangerous of surgical procedures, as it is at the same time one of the most ancient. No surgical disease has given rise to more discussion, none to more controversy; and not alone in modern times, for Hippocrates dwells lengthily upon the disease and the means of its remedy; and so hazardous was any attempt at the removal of stone considered, that those who practised it were of that migratory class which deemed it inadvisable to remain long in one place, while the Father of Medicine him- self considered the operation so critical, or so unworthy, or both, that he made his pupils solemnly affirm that they would never attempt it. If history is to be believed, there was a seeming necessity for this affirmation in the fact that Tryphon, the usurper, induced a lithotomist of the time to operate, with fatal result, upon Antiochus the Sixth, for a stone which did not exist. At a later period, Celsus and the Alexandrian school taught that stone was irremediable in persons over fifteen years of age. Then, as men grew bolder, age was less considered, but the season of the year became important, and operations for stone were performed only in spring time. At that season the subjects of vesical calculus were gathered into certain localities, where the peripatetic lithotomist would visit them ; and, as a certain proportion of them would die, the operator found it convenient, to be soon at a safe dis- tance from the scene of his triumphs and of his disasters, well knowing that no amount or degree of the former could render his presence safe near the scene of the latter. And thus the operation continued to fluctuate in favor till near our own day, when the operation for stone was admitted to be one of the most brilliant and useful in surgery. During all these centuries but three principal methods were practised to open the bladder, and to reach and remove the stone: 1, by the hypogas- trium ; 2, by the perineum; and 3, by the rectum. And one alone, the second, while it was the oldest, continued to be that which received the most general approval. These various methods, however, are here only mentioned, as a consideration of them does not enter into the purpose of this article. The circumstances under which vesical calculi are formed, and the symp- toms which they produce, have been fully considered in the preceding article,1 and I shall therefore proceed at once to consider the mode of exploring a bladder which is suspected to contain stone, in order to determine whether 1 See pages 149, 184, supra.