MALFORMATIONS AND MALPOSITIONS OF THE BLADDER. 337 to its pelvis. In my own case, when the colon was distended by flatus, one could feel certain that gas would find its way into the ureter, and so into the pelvis of the kidney. Assuming that it is possible to establish the most complete and satisfactory communication between the rudimentary bladder, or the ureters, and the bowel, the degree of comfort which this arrangement would confer on the patient still remains undetermined. Whether the rectum is capable, in the human subject, of adapting itself to the twofold office of bladder and bowel is, to say the least, problematical. In a case where the ureters opened into the rectum, the patient suffered from constant diarrhoea and irritation induced by the passage of the urine into the bowel.1 We may now proceed to consider the second class of operations which have been practised, namely, those of a distinctly plastic character. The first successful operation of this kind was performed in 1858, by the late Professor Joseph Pancoast, of Philadelphia,2 who used two reversed skin flaps, taken from the groins, and turned with their epidermal surfaces towards the vesical mucous membrane. In England, Mr. Timothy Holmes3 soon followed in the same direction,.and subsequently Mr. John Wood,4 of King’s College, further added importantly to our resources in the devising and adjusting of flaps for both sexes. Referring to these operations, Professor Gross considers that Wood’s plan is best adapted for the female, and that employed by the late Hr. Maury5 (which was essentially that recommended by Roux, of Brignoles) for the male. Fig. 1282 For the performance of Wood’s operation (Fig. 1282), an umbilical flap, A, is turned down over the bladder, the groin flaps, B and C being superim- posed and joined together by their free borders, a 5, a' //, so as to meet in the middle line. The details of this operation may be best studied by referring 1 Philosophical Transactions, vol. vii. 2 North American Med.-Chir. Review, 1859. 3 Op. cit., p. 149. 4 Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. lii. 6 American Journal of the Medical Sciences, July, 1871. VOL. VI.—22