INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE URETHRA. 436 ligament and the suspensory ligament of the penis. This, however, is too vague an assertion, and we have a right to demand greater precision in de- limitation of the seat of rupture. From researches founded on information gathered at autopsies, and examinations made at the moment when perineal incisions had been practised, Cras came to the following conclusion : every time that the examination was made carefully, the bulbous region was found involved. Gfuyon, in his report on the paper of Cras, adopts the same opinion. Finally, Terrillon, relying upon the results of autopsies, upon explorations carried out by surgeons during operations of urethrotomy, and upon his own experience, arrives at altogether analogous conclusions. In contusions of the perineum, ruptures are situated most frequently at the level of the middle or anterior portion of the bulb. There always remains, in front of the triangular ligament, a strip of the canal, having a length which varies from one to three centimetres. Ruptures of the membranous portion are almost constantly accompanied by fractures or dislocations of the pelvis. Those of the prostatic region are absolutely exceptional. Extent of Rupture.—Recognition of the extent of a rupture is still more interesting than that of its seat. Is the rupture complete or incomplete ? What wall has escaped the traumatism ? These two questions are of capital importance in regard to treatment, in regard both to the introduction of a catheter and to the search for the posterior end of the divided urethra. Yet we find only uncertain data in the books in regard to the relative frequency of the lesion concerned. According to Terrillon, whose opinion is, however, only hypothetically advanced, complete ruptures should be most frequent in the membranous region, and altogether exceptional in the penile region. In regard to the seat of incomplete ruptures, it is admitted that they occupy the lower wall. Ollier alone, relying on the observations which I have already mentioned, maintains a contrary opinion. He maintains that the rupture takes place at the expense of the upper wall. Lesions of the Parts adjacent to the Urethra.—In the perineum these are chiefly subcutaneous or sub-aponeurotic separations, accompanied by more or less abundant effusions of blood. Most frequently these foci do not commu- nicate with the urethral lesion. At other times they do communicate with it, whence results the formation in their cavity of a mixture of blood, urine,, and pus. Sometimes the triangular ligament is torn, or rather is separated from its lateral attachments, the effusion of blood extending into the iliac fossee. In some cases, a laceration of the subpubic ligament has been ob- served. Likewise a separation of the root of a cavernous body has been noted, and this has been found torn away at the point of its isehio-pubic insertion. According to the observation of Terrillon, the tissue of the cavernous bodies is often burst and lacerated, but the lesion passes unperceived because of the persistence of the fibrous envelope, which possesses considerable power of resistance. Quite frequently rupture of the urethra is accompanied by a fracture of the pubis. In such cases, sometimes, as we have seen before, the fracture is primary and the urethral lesion is secondary; sometimes, on the contrary, the urethral lesiou precedes the fracture. However this may be, two cases may present themselves: either the rupture of the urethra com- municates with the point of fracture, or, on the contrary, this communication is wanting. In the first condition there may be danger of osteo-myelitis, and serious results; in the second, there is only a simple fracture, which be- haves in the usual way. Finally, complications involving the integuments may occur. Sometimes there is a contused wound of the skin and subcuta- neous tissue, not communicating with the rupture of the urethra ; sometimes the contused wound involves the perineum throughout its whole thickness, reaches the urethra, and communicates with it. In the penile region the