653 FUNCTIONAL DISORDERS OF THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. part of the spinal cord was removed, by dividing the cord, erection was pro- duced more speedily and completely. In a case of injury to the spine in the upper portion of the dorsal region, which occurred in a young man, there was paraplegia, and such an irritable condition that the mere passage of a catheter caused violent erections. After injury to the spine, priapism is often pre- sent, as also in some cases of spinal disease. The terminal filaments of the nervi erigentes are distributed to the corpora cavernosa, as are also branches of the pudic nerves ; neither section of the latter, nor irritation of their peri- pheral stumps, appears to cause any change of a marked or constant character in the penis, since they serve merely to transmit the centripetal stimuli by which the act is normally provoked. The erector nerves may be cut with- out any appreciable consequence, but when their peripheral ends are stimulated by an interrupted current, the corpora cavernosa become turgid with blood. The erection, however, is not complete, the turgescence being most marked at the bulb and least so in the glans penis. If an incision be made into the corpora cavernosa, the blood issues more rapidly from the cut when the nerves are irritated, and is of a brighter color. The pressure in the efferent veins is simultaneously raised. That these phenomena are really due to dilatation of the arterioles supplying the erectile tissue with blood, and not to any hindrance offered to the escape of blood by compression of the efferent veins, has been adequately proved by Eckhard, Loven, and others. Ligature of all the efferent veins is not enough, per se, to produce erection ; moreover, partial erection may be caused by electrization of the nervi erigentes, even when the efferent veins have been freely opened. The retarded efflux of blood plays an important but subsidiary part in the causation of erection. When the penis is erect, the meshes of the corpora cavernosa are distended with blood, owing to a disproportion between the blood entering the part and that leaving it. Arterial blood enters more abundantly during erec- tion, and there is found to be a diminution of arterial pressure in all the pelvic vessels, and in the crural arteries. (Eckhard.) The turgescence is caused by increased cardiac action, but principally by the greater permea- bility of the arteries of the penis, due to the nervous condition. The dilata- tion may be active, that is, caused by an arrangement of muscular fibres; or it may be passive, and due to their relaxation. (Hausmann.) The diminished out- flow of blood is ascribed by Kolliker and Kohlrausch, not to the veins them- selves, but to the influence of the nervi erigentes on the unstriped muscular fibres of the cavernous tissue; these become relaxed, and allow the blood free entry to the part. Erection begins at the base of the penis, and extends forwards to the glans. During erection, the veru montanum becomes dis- tended and prevents the semen from flowing backwards into the bladder; the semen’s passage outwards is facilitated by the patent condition of the urethra, due to the distension of the corpus spongiosum, and by its lubrication with the secretions afforded by its glands. Malformations and defects of the genital organs, leading to impotence, may be congenital or acquired. The penis may be absent, may have been dislocated, or may have been removed by accident, sloughing chancre, or the surgeon’s knife. In some instances the penis is small and ill-formed; or the urethra may be misplaced, its orifice opening improperly. Instead of being too small, the organ may be too large, from over development, or from elephantiasis affecting its integument. Intercourse with emissions may take place after the removal of the glans penis, the irritation of the nerve-twigs supplying the skin of the penis being sufficient to cause an ejaculation of semen. The penis is often effectually buried in cases of large hernia, hydrocele, or scrotal elephantiasis; and occasionally tumors of the penis are present, which render sexual intercourse impossible. A distressing