ELYTRORRAPHY. 745 ratlier than of pelvic and perineal fasciae. Buclin1 holds that the fibres of the levator ani, rather than the covering fasciae, are the parts which have been injured. He remarks that “the comparison of the mouth of a purse closed by a cord, is more readily comprehended with retractile and contrac- tile muscular fibres than with fascial fibrous tissue. One also better under- stands the great distention which the bands encircling the vagina can undergo in labor, if the resistance is due not to the tissue of fasciae, but to muscular fibres.” The patient lies upon her back; the lower limbs, strongly flexed upon the abdomen, are held by an assistant on each side; and the hips are brought to the foot of the table. The assistants separate the labia. The operator’s first step is to seize with a tenaculum the crest of the presenting rectocele, or the posterior wall of the vagina, at a point where it can be drawn forward, with- out undue traction, to near the entrance of the urethra; the instrument is then held by an assistant. Next, the operator inserts a tenaculum into the lowest hymeneal caruncle on each side; bringing the three tenacula together, the vaginal canal will be found reduced in size, the perineum will have been apparently drawn up toward the arch of the pubis, and the tissues at the previously gaping outlet will have been rolled in until the vaginal entrance is no larger than that of a woman who has not given birth to a child at term. The three points held by the tenacula form across the vagina, and just within the vulva, a sulcus the ridges of which must be denuded and united with su- tures. The annexed illustration (Fig. 1421) shows the denuded surfaces, with Fig. 1421. Fig. 1422. Posterior colporraphy. (Emmet’s method.) four of the sutures introduced on each side. In many cases the de- nudation has less of a crescent form than is represented in the above illustration. Dr. Joseph Price,2 to whom I am indebted for the next illustration, says that the denudation only roughly cor- responds with a crescent, whose convexity is the boundary of the skin and mucous membrane of the vulva, while its concavity is at the summit of the rectocele, and its cusps extend up the lateral deep sulci and posterior wall of the vagina. The sides of each sulcus are stitched together, the stitches being so introduced as to lift up the tissues toward the apex of the triangle, and hence they do not pass directly across from side to side, but the needle, after entering at one side in the undenuded tissue, passes somewhat obliquely to the middle of the freshened surface, then is re-introduced, and is given a course nearly at a right angle to that'which it first took, until it Posterior oolporraphy by Emmet’s method. (After Price.) 1 ProgrOs Medical, Aout, 1881. 2 See a valuable paper read by Dr. Price before the Philadelphia County Medical Society, June 24, 1885.