648 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. biued with the mineral acids and sulphate of magnesium, and in some in- stances with the preparations of iron. Arsenic is also a valuable nerve tonic. The tincture of the chloride of iron is certainly one of the most valuable remedies which we possess for the treatment of disorders of the genito-urinary organs. The patient should begin with twenty drops in a wineglassful of water, taken three times a day after meals. The dose may be gradually increased until a drachm, or even a drachm and a half is reached. Some persons suffer from nausea, griping, and constipation after taking this medicine, which must then be left off, and resumed after an interval of rest. If intolerance still exist, the milder preparations, such as the potassio-tartrate, citrate, or dialysed iron, may be better assimilated. A visit to some health resort where ferruginous springs abound may be useful. Dilute hydrochloric acid, prescribed with the tincture, will neutralize its constipating effect. Strychnia, given in moderate doses and continued for several months, is a most useful tonic, and tends to regulate the action of the bowels. Ergot of rye, although most valuable in some cases, is not a specific. Dr. C. L. Mitchell1 found ergot, in doses of one-half to one drachm daily, successful in several severe cases. Sedatives and antispasmodics are most valuable aids in the treatment of this disorder. Camphor has been used from the earliest times, and must be given in full doses, from half a drachm to one drachm of the tincture, freely diluted with water, the last thing at night, and repeated if the erections prove troublesome and emissions threaten. Lupulin has been recommended by Professor Sigmund.2 Mr. Milton, having tried it extensively in five- grain and drachm doses, taking care to secure the best hops, found that it Avas a pleasant bitter, but that it had only a mild and uncertain effect on the discharges.3 Digitalin, the dose of which is from gr. ^ to gr. has been administered for this complaint by M. L. Corvisart,4 but, owing to its depressant action on the heart, is a dangerous remedy. Opium, given in grain doses, is a powerful sedative, and has held its ground as a valuable drug for the treatment of spermatorrhoea since its recommendation by Hunter, who cured cases by its exhibition. It should, however, be held in reserve as long as possible, as it is apt to disorder the digestion, and a habit of opium eating may be acquired. Chloral-hydrate, when tolerated by the patient, is very valuable, and is given in from ten-grain to thirty-grain doses. Professor Trousseau and others have recommended the use of belladonna, of which from a quarter to one grain of the extract may be given three times a day, or an equivalent dose of the tincture; the drug may be given also in the form of a suppository, or applied locally, if pain be present. Valerian, cherry- laurel water, and extract of hyoscyamus sometimes prove useful.5 Dr. Nowatscliek treats spermatorrhoea consequent on typhoid fever by hypodermic injections of a one-per-cent, solution of atropia in the perineum.6 The bro- mides are, upon the whole, the most valuable remedies of this kind that we possess. Bromide of potassium may be given in full doses of twenty grains or more, three times a day. It may be usefully combined with chloral-hydrate. The bromides of ammonium, sodium, and camphor, the valerianate of ammo- nium, and the valerianate and oxide of zinc, are useful drugs. The digestive organs are liable to derangements, which come and go, and intensify the symptoms by interfering with the nutrition of the body. The skin and bowels do not act properly ; the tongue is coated ; the urine scalds and is turbid; and the patient is not properly refreshed after a night’s rest. 1 American Medical Monthly, April, 1861. 2 Repert. fur Pliarm., No. 1, 1856. 3 Practical Remarks on Treatment of Spermatorrhoea, etc., p. 55. London, 1871. 4 L’Union Medicale, Avril, 1853. s Medical News, Jan. 7, 1882. 6 Wien. med. Presse, Bd. xx. S. 1067.