830 OVARIAN AND UTERINE TUMORS. combined, if the general health he feeble. A daily sponge-bath completes the preparatory treatment. The urine should always he most carefully examined, and, if albuminous, the case should he retained under observation a short time longer. Dr. Thomas is accustomed to give “ from twelve to fifteen grains of quinine with a quarter of a grain of morphia five hours before the operation.” This, of course, is to anticipate and prevent surgical shock, but in my hands the plan has not answered well, and I have abandoned it, as in more than one case it has upset the stomach, and disturbed the nervous system. For five or six hours before the operation no solid food must be taken. Immediately before operating, the bladder must be carefully emptied. The requisites for the operation are the carbolic spray—to be used before but not during the operation ; solutions of carbolic acid and mercuric bichlo- ride; two good bistouries; two good directors, one broad; one dozen artery forceps—Sims’s, Wells’s, or Esmarch’s ; half a dozen long adhesion-forceps— Tait’s or Keith’s; two large sac-forceps—Nelaton’s; two tenacula—small; two tenacula or sharp hooks—large; two trocars—Wells’s or Emmet’s; two pairs of scissors—straight and curved; one aneurism-needle; one Peaslee’s carrying needle; clamp (in reserve)—Dawson’s or Thomas’s; ligatures—catgut, Chinese silk—two of large braided silk; needles, some threaded in advance; cautery— Paquelin’s if possible; drainage-tubes; iodoform gauze; and “ protective” dress- ings. The sponges, which have been purposely omitted from the above list, are most important and a constant care to the surgeon. There should always be a definite number in use, say one dozen, no more and no less ; and of these one half should be good-sized, medium sponges for hand use; three large, thin, and flat, for pressing back the viscera or catching the final oozing from the abdominal walls when the wound is closed; three (and only three) small, firm probang-sponges in Sims’s sponge-holders. Only one person (a nurse prefer- ably to a medical assistant) should ever be allowed to touch the sponges; she must always count them before the operation, and again before the abdominal wound is closed. For an hour before the operation they are to be soaked in a hot carbolic solution, 1-50; and after the operation they are to be carefully and frequently washed in a solution of carbonate of sodium and ammonia, again in the strong carbolic-acid solution (never in the bichloride, which rots them), and then carefully dried and kept in air-tight jars. In this way good sponges may be kept for three months as good as new, and absolutely free from infectious elements. Beside the nurses (or nurse) four competent and cool assistants are needed: one to give ether, which he is never to leave or transfer to another; one to assist the operator with the tumor and abdominal viscera; one to hand and take back the instruments, which are constantly immersed in carbolic-acid solution, 1-40 (not bichloride, which rusts them, and ruins the knives); and one to attend to the cautery if it be required. More than this number are embarrassing, and are often in each other’s way. If other spec- tators be present, they should be kept at a distance from the operating table. The English custom of obliging all visitors to sign a statement that they have not recently come from cases of contagious disease, or from the dissecting-room, is wise, and should be always followed in this country. The several stages of an ordinary ovariotomy are: (1) Incising the abdomi- nal wall and peritoneum; (2) Evacuating the contents of the tumor; (3) Extrac- tion, or “ delivery,” of the sac or tumor ; (4) Treatment of the pedicle; (5) Treatment of adhesions and other points of bleeding; (6) The so-called “ peri- toneal toilet;” (7) Closure of wound, with or without drainage ; (8) Appli- cation of antiseptic dressing. (1) In all cases of laparotomy, it is well to regard the abdominal section as a temporary “ explorative incision ;” and therefore, except in the predeter-