INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS OF THE BONES. 854 sition is the general formula which I have reached in my experiments upon the growth of bone; interstitial growth is absent, or is insignificant.1 Marginal osteitis of certain flat bones (angle of the jaw), and sutural osteitis of the cranium and of the bones of the face, are to be classified, during child- hood and adolescence, with the osteitis of growth. Juxta-epiphyseal osteitis is acute or chronic. When acute, it often over- leaps the limits of the connecting cartilage which has held it back for a certain length of time; then it is propagated to the epiphysis and attacks the terminal articulation. When chronic, it threatens the articulations less directly, but invades them ultimately, sooner or later according to the relations between the connecting cartilages and synovial membranes. A mistake has sometimes been made as to the significance of juxta-epiphy- seal osteitis. Because the grave and infective form has been most carefully described,2 it has been supposed that this affection is no other than that which is known under the names of diffuse phlegmonous periostitis, separa- tion of the epiphyses, typhus of the limbs, etc. This is an error which I have always combated ; for ever since the beginning of my researches, in 1860, I have seen chronic and benign forms of the disease. The word juxta-epiphyseal is a qualificative, which indicates the seat and not the nature of the affection. My experimental researches upon the growth of bone, while demonstrating the part of the connecting cartilage in increase of height, have led me to attach the greatest importance to inflam- matory lesions situated at the edges of this cartilage, in the spongy tissue of the diaphysis. This newly formed spongy tissue, very vascular and united to the cartilage by a spongy layer which is not yet bone, but which no longer has the cartilaginous structure, is the portion of the bone in which the most active transformations take place during the period of growth. Upon the edges of the cartilage, the phenomena of cellular proliferation are accomplished with the greatest rapidity ; transformation of cartilage-cells into marrow cells and into osteoblasts; transformation of these osteoblasts into bone-corpuscles; constitution of the web of the bone and formation of spaces filled with marrow; in fine, incessant increase in the height of the bony column. The marrow contained in the spongy tissue is very vascular; it is of a rose-color, and not charged with fat; it communicates with the marrow of the central canal, and, on the other hand, is connected with the periosteum by numerous vascular canals. This spongy tissue makes up the expanded portions of the diaphysis, and is often the seat of acute or chronic inflammations, to which, under the influence of the physiological perturbations or the traumatic causes which we shall hereafter examine, the incessant transformations to which it is subject expose it. Inflammation may be developed in these various layers, at a greater or less distance from the connecting cartilage. If it attacks the cartilage, it alters its tissue, disturbs its nutrition, disintegrates it, and puts a more or less complete stop to the growth of the bone. If it does not attack the carti- lage directly, its evolution will not be disturbed, but the inflammation may travel in a different direction, towards the central canal of the bone, or may advance towards the superficies and then invade the sub-periosteal layers. I have given the name juxta-epiphyseal to that expanded part of the dia- physis which is included between the central canal and the connecting carti- lage, and it will suffice to bear in mind its structure and its relations in order to comprehend its importance in relation to osseous pathology. 1 Reclierclies experimentales sur le mode d’accroissement des os. (Archives de Pliysiologie, 1872.) 2 Garnet, De l’osteo-periostite juxta-epipliysaire. These de Paris, 1862; Sezary, De Posteite aigue chez les enfants et les adolescents. These de Paris, 1870.