INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. 528 In India it is the custom for some Mahomedans to be made eunuchs:— Young boys are brought from their parents, and the entire external genitals removed with a sharp razor. The bleeding is treated by the application of herbs and hot poul- tices ; hemorrhage kills half the victims, and at times brings the perpetrators of the vile proceeding within the clutches of the law. If the parts have been completely severed and the wound left be irregular, the surgeon should trim it up, adjust its edges accurately with silver-wire sutures, remove any foreign material, tie all the vessels, and divide the lower wall of the urethra for about half an inch, stitching the edges of the mucous membrane and skin together, to insure a patent orifice. It is necessary care- fully to compare the appearances presented by the wound with the account given of the mode of its occurrence : a case has occurred but recently where two men were committed to prison for mutilating a man, who, in the sequel, was proved to be a monomaniac, and to have committed the act himself. If there be a wound of the urethra, its edges should be brought together and a suitable gum-elastic catheter retained. In some instances a urinary fistula, in others an awkward curvature on the side injured, may result. If retention of urine follow an injury, a catheter must be used. Punctured wounds of the penis are very rare, and may result from pins, needles, or from pointed objects introduced into the urethra, and in battle from sword or bayonet thrusts. The wound is attended with sharp pain, and may eventually produce distortion of the penis like an incised wound. Contused wounds are caused by severe pressure from a blunt body, such as a cart-wheel, by a blow from a piece of timber, or by the kick of a horse. When severe, the lesion is very formidable, as the urethra is likely to be ruptured, and there is extensive swelling from extravasation of blood. Analogous to the lesions produced by a contused wound is that due to strangulation:— A young man lias been known to tie a piece of string around liis penis to remedy nocturnal incontinence of urine : the organ swells during sleep, and it becomes a difficult matter in consequence to untie the string, which causes cedematous swelling and ulcer- ation, this soon opening into the urethral canal and giving rise to a distressing fistula. It was only after a very careful examination that Mr. Wormald detected and removed a constricting foreign body which had become deeply buried by ulceration in a boy’s penis; the boy stoutly denied all knowledge of its presence. A fistula at the base of the glans is sometimes met with in children, which appears on examination to have been caused by the constriction of the detritus of clothing, which has become matted together and formed a cord. Mr. Potts1 reports the case of a man who applied to him to be relieved of retention of urine. A woman had passed, a few hours before his application, a ring over his penis. The organ was greatly swollen and discolored, the glans being quite black ; the ring was deeply imbedded in the tissues about two-thirds of the distance from the orifice. After a little trouble, a. fine grooved director was passed under the ring, which was filed across and removed. The ring was a gold “ keeper,” and had on its inner surface the not inappropriate motto “ No separation until death.” The man immediately passed a large quantity of urine, and suffered no ill effects afterwards. An injury to the penis may occur during coitus and be followed by extravasation. Injuries to the perineum leading to rupture of the urethra and extravasation of urine are very dangerous, and are to be treated by passing a catheter at once into the bladder before extravasation has taken place. The same care is necessary in the treatment of injuries of the urethra associated with fracture of the pelvic bones. Gunshot wounds of the penis are but rarely met with in civil practice. The course of a bullet in the penis is as eccentric as it is in other instances Trans. Path. Soc. Lond., vol. xv. p. 155.