INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE BLADDER AND PROSTATE. 382 In sucli a case, on side section, the urethra would still he found almost hori- zontal, as in the normal state. Fig. 1297 represents a bisected condition of Fig. 1297. Bifid hypertrophy of third lobe of prostate. the hypertrophied third lobe, which was probably the result of constant catheterization.1 The line of the urethra, as in the preceding specimen, still remains nearly horizontal. In the cases from which Figs. 1296 and 1297 are taken, micturition was not interfered with, by reason of the direction and relation of the prostatic urethra being practically unaltered. It will be presently urged that the conditions which existed in these cases are capable of artificial production to a useful extent. Treatment.—Before proceeding to consider the treatment of prostatic hyper- trophy, the question naturally arises as to whether anything can be done to prevent its occurrence. As the cause of the affection has not yet been thoroughly determined, it is hardly necessary to say that there are no known means for preventing it, and it is useless, therefore, to discuss a series of sur- mises which have already occupied sufficient attention. If, as there is some reason to infer, this change is related to the natural function of the organ, or is a result of its excessive employment, I am afraid that, although we might have the satisfaction of possessing an explanation of its origin, we should still experience no little difficulty in preventing its occurrence. The treatment of enlargement of the prostate will be considered with reference to the only symptom which, as a rule, leads to its recognition, namely, interference with micturition ; for as long as this act continues to be painlessly and efficiently performed, no one is at all likely to complain of it. As already noted, the earliest symptoms of enlarged prostate usually relate to some gradually increasing difficulty in urination; either the stream is diminished in volume, or in extent of propulsion, or the act is too frequently performed. These indications point to a physical obstruction, which exam- ination shows to be seated in the prostate. Occasionally under these circum- stances, with little or no warning, and probably owing to some accidental circumstance, such as exposure to cold or an over-indulgence in wine, the 1 Harrison, op. cit., p. 18.