464 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE URETHRA. Prognosis.—From what has been said, it is to be seen that stricture of the ure- thra should always be looked upon as a grave affection : grave in itself, since it exposes the patient to a whole series of local or general complications, capa- ble of causing death; grave also in regard to the treatment which it demands, treatment which may be dangerous even in the most benign cases. Finally, it cannot be too often repeated that the cure of stricture of the urethra is never radical and final, no matter what method of treatment may be em- ployed ; and that relapses will inevitably occur, if care be n&t taken to main- tain the results obtained, by means of treatment continued, so to speak, inde- finitely. In conclusion, I will add that the character of a stricture has an influence on the prognosis. Traumatic strictures are much the most serious, as much on account of the rapidity of their course and the complications which they set up, as in regard to their treatment, since they are amenable to only the more dangerous procedures. Treatment—There are three principal methods of treating strictures: cauterization, dilatation, and urethrotomy. (1) Cauterization.—Employed by the surgeons of the sixteenth and seven- teenth centuries for the purpose of destroying so-called carnosities, cauteriza- tion was practised with astringent, but hardly caustic, medicaments, so that it is reasonable to attribute the successes which it gave, to the dilatation produced by the bougies used to introduce the supposed escharotics into the canal. Then, toward the end of the eighteenth century, dilatation was substituted for cauterization by Desault and Chopart. This method, indeed, was about to be completely abandoned, when Hunter and Everard Home came to restore it to honor by substituting, for the more or less inert sub- stances employed by the ancients, the fused nitrate of silver. A caustic substance brought into contact with a stricture acts in two different ways: sometimes, when the cauterization is energetic, it produces a more or less extensive loss of substance, which makes the stricture disappear, but substi- tutes for it cicatricial tissue; sometimes, when it is less profound, it deter- mines in the subjacent tissues more or less intense inflammatory phenomena, which modify the mode of vitality of the parts, paralyze the contractile fibres of the urethra, diminish momentarily their resistance, and render the stricture more easily dilatable. Cauterization may be practised according to two different methods: 1st, from before backwards ; 2d, laterally. Hunter, who by his writings and his practice contributed most to the general adoption of anteroposterior cauteri- zation, used a bougie of ordinary wax carrying at its extremity a fragment of nitrate of silver, which he left in contact with the affected parts for about a minute. He repeated this cauterization every two days, if no accident happened, and had recourse to dilatation as soon as the stricture permitted a bougie to pass. Cauterization was, therefore, for Hunter, only an accessory operation, designed to prepare for and facilitate dilatation. Everard Home, a pupil of Hunter, regarded it altogether otherwise, and used the armed bou- gie, not to prepare the way for dilatation, but to destroy the stricture: the bougie was pushed up to the obstruction and gently pressed against it for a minute or two; and this operation was repeated every two days until the moment when, the stricture having disappeared, the bougie penetrated freely to the bladder. This blind and brutal procedure, which exposes a patient to the gravest accidents, has long been justly abandoned. On the contrary, antero-posterior cauterization practised according to the method of Hunter, may be of great service in certain cases of stricture, very difficult to pass either by reason of the irregular character of the opening or of the track, or because of the extreme sensitiveness of the mucous membrane and of the spasmodic contraction which is excited by the least contact of a foreign body