SELECTION OF METHOD OF RADICAL TREATMENT. 205 growing in favor in this country, through the advocacy of Dulles, of Phila- delphia, and in Germany and France under the influence of Petersen, Ultz- maun, Albert, Dittel, Langenbuch, Guyon, Perier, Bouley, Monod, and others. The general mortality seems to be about one in three and a half (Dulles1 gives 636 cases, 182 deaths, 1 in Sj'). Frere Come had 100 cases and 19 deaths, 1 in 5.27, an excellent showing ; but of these 59 were in females, with 9 deaths, 1 in 6.55, and 41 in males, of whom 10 died, 1 in 4.10. . Souberbielle had 90 cases with 31 deaths, 1 in 2.90. Of his patients, 6 were under 20 years of ageT and 2 died, 1 in 3. Therefore 30 per cent, of deaths is a fair average of mortality to accord to the operation as formerly practised, as far as statistics are a guide. It can be shown that modern statistics under the very best circumstances are but little better. Individual sets of small numbers of cases are not im- portant. My personal statistics are absolutely bad. At the date of my ope- rating, several years ago, the total number of m3’ operations by other methods had been thirty-eight, with one death. Then I operated three times in suc- cession by the suprapubic method, and all my patients died. Two were desperate cases and would have terminated fatally, I believe, under any cir- cumstances, but the other was an excellent case, and ought to have ended in recovery by any method. It was before the day of litholapaxy. The ope- ration was not at all complicated, but the patient died with suppression of urine, high temperature, and uraemia, in two days. No autopsy was allowed. There was no evidence of local mischief, and death undoubtedly came by the kidneys. As against these unfavorable statements I deem it just to array a set of cases communicated to me by letter, the results of which are unsur- passed. Mr. A. Groves, of Fergus, Ontario, Canada, writes me that he has performed the high operation four times successfully. Case I.—Man of sixty-three years, weighing three-hundred pounds, who had been a very hard drinker ; six stones removed. Five measured one and a quarter inch each in the longest diameter ; the sixth, quarter of an inch. Case II.—Man sixty-seven years old, much debilitated, stone one and a half inch in diameter. Case III Boy six years old, mulberry calculus one inch in diameter. Case IV Man sixty-four years old, twenty-five calculi removed. Truly a remarkable experience, and an excellent showing for the high operation. Dulles’s2 statistical report, in April, 1878, gives a table of 20 cases as having occurred in the 10 years just preceding, with only two deaths, 1 in 10. But an analysis of the table shows that the average age of the patients was under 16 years, and that the two deaths were in infants of 4 and 2J years. Further, a foot-note says that two operations are left out of the computation because they were complicated by having had the lateral perineal operation done upon them at the same time with the high operation—yet another look at the table makes this reason hardly a good one, since it is observed that the table contains two successful cases in which this same double operation was done (Billroth’s and Watson’s), and a suspicion is excited that the two cases left out may perhaps have had a fatal issue, in which event the mortality would be 4 in 22 cases, 1 in 5^.3 1 Personal letter, and Gross’s System of Surgery, 6th ed., vol. ii. p. 759. 2 Am. Journ. Med. Sci., April, 1878, p. 394. 3 Replying to a letter, March 29, 18S4, Dr. Dulles says that he has collected nearly 700 cases ; hut he does not mention the death-rate, referring to the figures in Gross’s Surgery, 1 in 3£, as his last utterance. He adds further, in explaining the construction to be put upon his table here referred to: “ The two cases omitted were fatal. I omitted them because, while it is certainly right to credit the suprapubic method with success where it has been complicated with another