INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE FEMALE GENITALS. 680 ceding the general truth that the author of an important operation is uncon- sciously inclined to exaggerate its value,1 either seeing only the facts which sustain it, or possibly misinterpreting others, we may in the main accept the indications for the operation given by Emmet; especially since he is much more conservative than many who are ostensibly his followers, but who very much exceed the limits within which he would restrain the operation. “The operation has been performed too often when no necessity for doing it existed. It has been done quite as often without the proper preparatory treatment, even while more or less cellulitis remained, and still oftener with no clearly delined purpose” (Emmet). Avoidance of these very common mistakes is important, and attention should, therefore, be directed to the diagnosis of tears or lacerations of the cervix, to the indications for traclieloplasty, and to the treatment necessary before an operation. Diagnosis.—This is made by touch and by sight. By the former we recog- nize the position of the tear, to some degree its extent, and especially whether it causes increased sensibility. In the visual examination a cylindrical specu- lum should be rejected, and while some one of the many bivalve instru- ments may be used, the best of all is that of Sims; the patient occupies the usual position for examination with the last-named speculum, and after its introduction the anterior vaginal wall is pushed away by the depressor and the cervix exposed. The conditions represented by Fig. 1881 may be pre- sented ; or, instead of a bilateral tear, the laceration may be on only one side, or it may be stellate. It is well, in continuing the visual examination, to seize each uterine lip with a tenaculum and draw both together, thus prov- ing that the angry-looking red surfaces which are presented, and which were regarded before Emmet’s important discovery as the result of ulceration, are really caused by ectropion of the cervical mucous membrane; they disappear more or less completely when the lips are approximated. A uterine sound may also be used during this visual examination to ascertain ’the sensibility of the tear, especially at its highest part or angle, for in some cases, though the tear may be covered with healthy mucous membrane, there may be cicatricial tissue causing pressure upon exquisitely sensitive nerve-filaments at that angle, and this may be the origin of various reflex nervous disturbances; an operation in these cases is imperatively required for the liberation of the compressed nerves. Emmet describes also a laceration from within outward— where the injury does not extend through the thickness of the cervix—diffi- cult of demonstration, although all the bad effects of the lesion are present. “Through the patulous os and canal the mucous membrane is seen prolapsed, and its appearance is like that presented after dilating with a sponge-tent, and where a partial contraction of the canal above has taken place, but has not yet extended to the external os. The cervix is frequently but little en- larged in diameter, but its walls are seen to be thinner than natural. The cervical discharge is most profuse and tenacious. The menstrual flow re- mains too free, and is often irregular, and the uterus is larger than normal” (Emmet). Indications for Tracheloplasty.—It must be remembered that, even if one or more lacerations be discovered, tracheloplasty is not necessarily indicated. 1 Emmet (Principles and Practice of Gynaecology, third edition, p. 447) makes the implied statement that a woman with bilateral laceration is sterile. This is an error : I have attended a patient in her second labor who had sustained such a laceration in her first. Again, it is an error to assert that nearly all, if not all, cases of epithelioma of the cervix have their exciting cause or origin in a laceration.