INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE RECTUM. 108 operation I usually allow niy patients to recline upon the sofa foir the greater part of the day. Never, if it can be avoided, should a fistula be operated upon that is from any cause acutely inflamed. While inflammation is going on, fresh sinuses are likely to form, the areolar tissue breaking down very readily ; if an ope- ration is performed under these conditions, failure is almost certain to ensue. All that should be done is to make a free dependent opening, and wait till the sac of the abscess contracts before laying open the resulting fistula with its otfshoots. The subject of 'fistula in conjunction with phthisis, which I have treated of very fully in my book on Diseases of the Rectum, I can only just advert to here, on account of want of space. From my cases I And that 16 per cent, of patients with anal fistula have had well-marked phthisis either active or latent. Fistula in persons of a phthisical tendency have the following pecu- liarities : They have a disposition to undermine the skin and mucous mem- brane with remarkable rapidity, but not to burrow deeply. The internal aperture is almost always large and open ; on passing the finger into the bowel the opening can be felt most distinctly, often a third of an inch in diameter. The external opening is also frequently large and ragged, not round ; it is irregular in form, and surrounded by livid flaps of skin ; when the probe is passed into this aperture, it can be swept around over an area of more than an inch, and not infrequently the skin is so thin that the probe can be seen beneath. The discharge is thin, watery, and curdy, very rarely really purulent. The sphincter muscles are almost always very weak. When the surgeon introduces his finger into the bowel, he is hardly sensible of any resistance being ottered. It is common to observe in these patients much longish, soft, silky-looking hair around the anus. When a case of this kind comes to me, I am never in a hurry to operate. I like to watch the patient for a little while, and observe whether the lung mischief is advancing, and also find out if the cough is constant. I wait, if I can, for genial weather when the patient need not be confined to a close room. As for the operation, it must be thorough, but as little interference as possible with the sphincter muscles, especially the internal, should be made. After the operation the patient should not be confined to bed, hut should be allowed to lie for hours on a mattress in a bedroom facing south or west, well covered up on a couch, by the open window. He should not be purged after the operation, but his howels should be opened by diet and mild laxatives. If his bowels act once in three days, it is usually quite sufficient. For my own part, I do not think that there are any clinical facts tending to show that the operation for fistula in phthisical patients renders the lung affection worse, or makes it more rapidly progressive. Except in the case of rapidly advancing phthisis, if the operation be performed discreetly, at the right time of year, and with favorable surroundings, the patient does well, and will be benefited, not damaged, by the cure of his rectal malady. Fissure and Painful Irritable Ulcer of the Rectum. These are found more frequently in women than in men, although not rare In the latter. I have seen fissure in a baby in arms, and in an old woman of •eighty, who was also suffering from impaction of feces. By far the most usual seat of fissure is dorsal or nearly dorsal. It may he Brought about by an injury or tearing of the delicate mucous membrane at the -verge of the anus, such as may be caused by straining, or by the passage of -very dry, hard motions; sometimes it follows severe diarrhoea; it is frequently