33 DILATATION AND SACCULATION OF THE OESOPHAGUS. Fig. 1179. from infancy to advanced maturity, or even from birth to advanced old age.1 Hiccough occurs in some instances. Complete dilatation is believed to give rise to habits of rumination, not at all unpleasant. Annular dilatation pre- sents the usual symptoms of stricture, to which are added regurgitation at unusually long periods after deglutition, and almost continuous escape of the fetid gases of decomposition. An oesophageal diverticulum will not produce dysphagia, unless it he so situated as to compress the main channel or overlie the stomach, under which circumstances it will give rise to symptoms like those of intrinsic stricture, or of compressing stricture from tumor outside. As long as sufficient aliment reaches the stomach, nutrition remains well preserved ; hut when the passage of food becomes impracticable, progressive emaciation ensues, with its usual manifestations. A pharyngeal diverticulum, while filled, may so compress the oesophagus as to render deglutition impracticable, when exter- nal compression will empty part of its contents into the mouth. Diagnosis.—Apart from the symptoms mentioned, the diagnosis will depend upon the results of ausculta- tion of the bolus and exploration with the sound. In general dilatation, auscul- tation indicates too rapid a descent of the mouthful of water and in a larger stream than usual. A diverticulum, it is claimed, can be detected by the deviation of the sound from the usual line. Palpa- tion with the bougie, in general dilatation, reveals a large sac in which the end of the instrument is freely movable. In exploring for pharyngeal sacculation, the sound may slip by the entrance of a diverticulum, especially when the latter is empty (Fig. 1179, H); consequently the unhindered passage of the instrument into the stomach is not positive evidence that sacculation is not present. Tem- porary external swelling by filling of the the sac, and its partial discharge by external upward compression, will indi- cate the existence of a pharyngeal diverticulum. Prognosis.—The prognosis is unfavorable as to remedying the lesion. Neither medicine nor surgery is of much avail. The prognosis as to life is not unfavorable under ordinary conditions. Many years may elapse before the fatal termination takes place, whether by accidents of perforation and ulceration, or by inanition. Extreme old age has been reached by subjects who presented evidence of the lesion from infancy. When inter-current disease or consecutive lesion does not terminate life, death eventually ensues by starvation. Treatment.—-Surgery offers little in the way of remedy. Chronic oeso- phagitis, stricture, foreign body, or whatever may be the apparent cause, requires appropriate treatment. Feeding through a stomach-tube, well in- troduced, would prevent detention of food in a sac or diverticulum. Paraly- sis would indicate the medicinal use of phosphorus and of strychnine. The use of the stomach-tube for feeding, and of electrization for attempted cure, has been suggested for general dilatation, but the prospects of good results A, direction of sound when the diverticulum is full. B, when it is empty. (After Zenker and Ziemssen.) 1 Cassan, Arch. Gen. de Med., 2e serie, t. ii. p. 79. a male patient, who died at 77). VOL. VI.—3 1836 ; cited by Michel (pliaryngocele in