247 LITHOLAPAXY. would cause a surgeon to halt in the midst of any other operation, would weigh with equal, but with no greater force, here. The amount of debris which may be removed in a given time varies greatly with circumstances. The average now is much higher than formerly, since operators have learned their power. The best recorded yield in washing was three ounces (dry weight) of small stones in twenty minutes—72 grains to the minute—a result obtained in Thomas Smith’s celebrated case of multiple calculi. This result was obtained through a tube of size No. 27 (French). Bigelow’s first, set of cases yielded a little less than an average of three grains to the minute, while in a recent case1 he removed successfully 1388 grains in one hour and fifty-five minutes, exactly 12 grains to the minute. Thompson’s2 first series yielded an average to the minute of 16J grains when the stone was hard, 124 when it was soft, while one of his later cases, that of the large stone already alluded to, gave him nearly 19 grains to the minute. My own first average3 was only If grains to the minute, while a recent ease of hard phosphatic stone, 765 grains in 45 minutes, furnished me an average of 17 grains to the minute, and the patient did admirably, being up and dressed in five days. How much better may be done, time must determine, hut no operator who values the safety of his patient should rank speed in the operation as highly as care and skill. Relapse after Litholapaxy.—Relapse may occur after litholapaxy, as it does after lithotomy, a totally new stone formation taking place, but it can- not well occur otherwise if the precaution be taken to search the bladder carefully with a small tube and washing-bottle, after the patient has been up and about at his duties for a month or more. This manoeuvre is so necessary that it might almost be termed the last step in the operation. One thing only in the way of relapse cannot be guarded against by litho- lapaxy, or indeed by any operation, and that is phosphatic re-accumulation. In cases of chronic cystitis with atony, where the patient will not take intelli- gent care of his bladder, and in cases of encysted stone, or chronic pyelitis, and the like, phosphatic re-accumulation must and does occur. Intelligence on the part of the patient may be required in these cases, and acuteness on the part of the surgeon to detect the cause of the phosphatic re- accumulation, and to do away with that cause if possible. But even in those cases in which the cause cannot be removed, the comfort furnished to the patient by litholapaxy, without risk to life, is far greater than could be afforded either by simple lithotrity or by lithotomy. Often when the cause of the phosphatic re-accumulation is chronic vesical catarrh, kept up by enlarged prostate and muscular atony, relapse after litho- lapaxy may be prevented by scrupulous attention to vesical irrigation, and bv occasional injections of dilute nitric acid, of a strength varying from a few minims up to a fluidrachm, in a pint of warm water. Complications during the Operation.—These are injury to the urethra, injury to the bladder, hemorrhage, clogging of the lithotrite, breakage of a lithotrite, inability to introduce the tube, clogging of the tube. The urethra is not likely to be injured by a lithotrite unless the instrument is withdrawn with its jaws impacted, or still containing a hard, jagged frag- ment. The bladder may very easily be injured to a varying extent by pinch- ing up a fold of mucous membrane, with more or less of "the muscular coat of the bladder, or even tearing it away in the grasp of the instrument. The 1 Boston Med. and Surg. Journ., Dec. 29, 1881, p. 612. 2 Lancet, Jan. 10, 1880, p. 44. 3 Loc. cit., p. 14.