836 OVARIAN AND UTERINE TUMORS. lithotomy posture. Use Battey’s or Sims’s speculum; wash out the vagina with an antiseptic solution ; draw down the cervix with volsella forceps, and keep it fixed at or near the vulva. Divide the posterior vaginal wall behind the cervix for an inch and a half in the middle line. Work cautiously through this opening into the peritoneal cavity ; hook down the nearest ovary with the index finger, if possible, while counter-pressure is made over the pubes; transfix the hilus of the ovary with a stout needle carrying a thread of fine carbolized silk, tie this firmly around each half in succession, cut away the distal part of the ovary, and return the stump with close-cut liga- ture to the pelvic cavity. Repeat this proceeding on the other side ; then pass in a drainage-tube and stitch up the wound around the tube with cat- gut, or, if preferred, leave it open to granulate. Wash out the vagina twice daily with solutions of listerine or weak carbolic acid. Instead of excision and permanent ligature, Dr. Battey used the dcraseur with a temporary liga- ture around the base. From the above description the operation would appear to be a simple one, but in a number of cases it has proved so difficult that it has been abandoned, and laparotomy done instead. 2. The abdominal section, or laparotomy, is similar to an ordinary ovariotomy, until the peritoneum is reached. This membrane is much more difficult to manipulate than in ovariotomy,.partly because it has undergone no inflamma- tory thickening, and partly because the intestines lie directly under it, and, if distended with flatus, rise constantly into the abdominal wound. The opera- tor now bathes his hands in some disinfectant, passes two fingers into the pelvis, touches the fundus uteri and slides the finger along this and the ovarian tube until he reaches the ovary of one side, which generally lies be- hind the Fallopian tube. Hooking up the ovary gently with two fingers, and, if at all possible, without tearing it, he brings the ovary up until it points in the wound. Then, with a blunt artery needle, he carries a ligature of Chinese silk through the hilus, and ties it very firmly in a double knot with reverse. He now catches the attachment just below the knot, and, if the ligature is satisfactory, cuts away the ovary a quarter inch above the knot. He cau- terizes the cut surface with Paquelin’s cautery if it seems vascular and likely to ooze; but if not, cuts the ligatures short and drops the ovarian stump hack into the pelvis. He repeats the same procedure Avith as little change as possible on the other side, cleans out the peritoneal cavity most carefully with sponges wrung out in the hot carbolic solution, and closes the abdomi- nal incision. To prevent oozing of blood into the pelvis at this stage, a large flat sponge, also wrung out in the hot carbolic solution, is used, to be kept under the line of the wound; this (guarded Avith long compression-forceps at each end) remains until all the sutures are inserted, and is removed just before they are tightened. All sponges and forceps are hoav counted, as in other abdo- minal sections. The peritoneal incision is closed separately with catgut or silkworm-gut sutures; for the outer tissues, Chinese silk or silver wire is best. The wound is dressed as after ovariotomy. All the antiseptic precau- tions enjoined for the latter operation must be used. In conclusion, it may be said that Battey’s operation is more difficult than an ordinary ovariotomy,and that the subsequent risks of peritonitis are greater. To an operator unaccustomed to abdominal surgery it is peculiarly trying; hut with patience and gentleness of manipulation the ovaries can generally be detached from their bed and brought up sufficiently high for safe ligation. When the operation is attempted for the relief of bleeding fibroids, the tumor and uterus must be tilted over to each side successively, before the underly- ing ovary is disturbed. For this a longer abdominal incision—at least of five