INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE RECTUM. 132 The mucous membrane at the highest point was next transversely divided, leaving the hemorrhoid simply attached by loose cellular tissue and by the vessels, proceeding from above and supplying the mass below. The forceps containing the hemorrhoid were then twisted until all connection was severed and the hemorrhoid removed. The divided surface of the mucous membrane was next drawn down, and attached by several fine silk sutures to the denuded border at the verge of the anus. The other portions having been treated in the same manner, the operation was com- pleted. The sections throughout were made by scissors. The loss of blood during the operation did not exceed a couple of ounces. The patient made a complete recovery, and regained the full capacity to discharge her domestic duties and social engagements. This operation Mr. Whitehead seems to have since modified, and he now cuts out a ring of the bowel commencing at the junction of the skin and mu- cous membrane; he dissects the piles upward, and then by a circular incision removes the mass (and a portion of the bowel also, I suppose); the cut edges are then brought together. Primary union, Mr. Whitehead says, always takes place, and the patient gets speedily well; he avers that in a large number of cases (200 and upwards), no contretemps has taken place, and by implication no death. Moreover, stricture has never resulted, nor ulceration. I fancy that in small excisions of the bowel for malignant disease, when the mucous membrane and skin have been brought together, such satisfactory results have not been obtained. The method of Mr. Whitehead deserves a full and fair trial, and it shall have it at my hands very shortly; one objection I feel called upon to make, viz., that in inexpert hands much time must be occupied, and considerable loss of blood must take place. I am quite sure that the frequent failures which are said to take place in other operations for piles, are the result of the very perfunctory and imperfect way in which they are conducted. I have constantly coming to me patients who have only been free from the surgeon for six months, and in whom the piles have returned; this is clearly because real removal has never been per- formed ; a slight clamping, a little burning, removing only the mucous surface of the hemorrhoid, is all that has been done; hemorrhage is only for a time arrested, and the disease continues to advance, having indeed been only very temporarily checked by the means used. The next seven in the list of operations which I have given, I will pass over, because they have little to recommend them ; when they are not uncer- tain methods they are dangerous, and occasionally they combine both danger and uncertainty of result. Take, for instance, the “ clamp and cautery” method. Mr. Henry Smith, who advocates this plan, lost four cases in 530 operations. Out of 195 patients Fig. 1194. with whom I followed his recommendation, 2 died in consequence of the operation. On the other hand, in 1800 cases of ligation I have had but one i