1132 APPENDIX. such a distance or situation in the rear of his regiment as will insure safety to the wounded, where they will give such aid as is immediately required ; and they are here reminded that, whilst no personal consideration should interfere with their duty to the wounded, the grave responsibilities resting upon them render any unnecessary exposure improper. The surgeon-in-chief of the division will exercise general supervision, under the medical director of the corps, over the medical affairs in his division. He will see that the officers are faithful in the performance of their duties in the hospital and upon the field, and that by the ambulance corps, which has heretofore been so efficient, the wounded are removed from the field carefully and with despatch. Whenever his duties permit, he will give his professional services at the hospital— will order to the hospital, as soon as located, all the hospital wagons of the brigades, the hospital tents and furniture, and all the hospital stewards and nurses. He will notify the captain commanding the ambulance corps, or if this be impracticable, the first lieutenant-commanding the division ambulances, of the location of the hospital. No medical, officer will leave the position to which he shall have been assigned without permission ; and any officer so doing will be reported to the medical director of the corps, who will report the facts to this office. The medical directors of corps will apply to their commanders on the eve of a battle, for-the necessary guard and men for fatigue duty. This guard will be particu- larly careful that no stragglers be allowed about the hospitals, using the food and com- forts prepared for the wounded. No wounded will be sent away from any of these hospitals without aftthority from this office. Previous to an engagement a detail will be made, by medical directors of corps, of a proper number of medical officers, who will, should a retreat be found necessary, remain and take care of the wounded. This detail, medical directors will request the corps commanders to announce in orders. The skilful attention shown by the medical officers of this army to the wounded upon the battle-fields of South Mountain, Crampton’s Gap, and Antietam, under trying circumstances, gives the assurance that, with this organization, the medical staff of the army of the Potomac can with confidence be relied upon, under all emergencies, to take charge of the wounded intrusted to its care. Very respectfully, Your obedient servant, (Signed) Jona. Letterman, Medical Director. Mode of Supply of Medicine and Medical Material.—Medical supplies are obtained by the surgeon-in-chief of brigades from the principal depot, on requisition approved by the corps medical director. He has a “medicine- wagon” (Fig. 1535), a vehicle especially fitted up for the convenient arrange- ment and dispensing of the medicines, dressings, etc.,and also one or more army wagons to transport such supplies as are in bulk. He issues his supplies to the regimental surgeons as they are needed to fill up their “field companions” and “ panniers,” and is responsible that the amounts are at all times kept up to the standard prescribed.1 It will be observed that the ambulance service, the field hospital service, and the mode of supply, are but harmoniously working parts of one system, which may be comprehensively designated as field hospitals for both wounded and sick. The system is very simple and practical in its working, and any officer of average acquirements will easily master all its details. A vast ex- perience gained in the late war in all our armies proved its adaptation to the utmost needs of the service, and its essential features will probably be adopted in any war that may occur during the lifetime of men now living.2 1 For the amounts and kinds of medicines, dressings, etc., see the “ Standard Supply Table of the Medical Department, U. S. Army, 1883.” 2 Dr. Jonathan Letterman, who devised this plan of medical administration, was born in Pennsylvania, December 11, 1824. He graduated in medicine at Jefferson College, Philadelphia,