8 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE (ESOPHAGUS. tapeworms, round worms, leeches, living fish, detached carious bones,1 hydatid cysts, and what not. The subjoined table, from Poulet,2 with a few additions, shows the varieties of foreign body which have been encountered in the oesophagus:— Table of Foreign Bodies in the (Esophagus. Animate Inanimate . . - Organic. . . . < Inorganic. . . « ( Leeches, fishes, salamanders, mice, eels, frogs, ^ ascarides lumbricoides, taeniae, hydatids. Beef-bones, fish-bones, other food bones, nasal bones, vertebral sequestra, pieces of meat and vegetable, fruits and kernels, potato, pieces of wood and grain, lung, egg, hair, cork, comb, sponge, spindle, dominoes, violin-pegs, comfits, cake, flute-stopper, teeth, dental plates, masses of rags, feathers, tobacco. Pins, needles, pens, coins, flat and round bodies (child’s saucer, medals), toys, dental plates, arti- ficial teeth (metallic), palate-obturator, knives, scissors, compass, razors, blades, sword-blades, forks, spoons, rings, buttons, buckles, keys, peb- bles, glass, vials, pieces of stone, brick, thermo- meters, bullets, bullets from projectiles, bars, pieces of pots, eyeglasses, butchers’ hone, iron file, brass chains, lead seals, tubes and pipes, diamonds, table-rollers, sucking bottle, beads, sounds, plaster, padlocks, fish-hooks, barbed wire, meat-skewers, tin tag from tobacco. Irregular fragments of bone (Fig. 1161) may be regarded as the most likely "substances to become impacted in the oesophagus. Theoretically, certain conditions predispose to the Fig. 1161. Specimens of irregular fragments of bone lodged In the oesophagus. Natural size. Museum ot' Val-de-Graoe. (After Poulet.) lodgment of foreign bodies in the gullet. Among these may be es- pecially enumerated loss of teeth; paralysis and spasm of the muscles of the face and lips, or of the tongue, palate, pharynx, and oeso- phagus ; inflammatory affections and neoplasms of the mouth, ton- sils, pharynx, oesophagus, epiglot- tis, larynx, and neck; enlarged cervical glands; goitre ; strictures and organic degenerations of the oesophagus. The accident is some- times due to imperfect cooking of food, or to failure to remove frag- ments of bone from soups, stews, and other dishes. False teeth some- times become detached in sleep, dislodged in eating, or dislodged while the individual is under the influence of an anaesthetic, and under all of these conditions have entered the oesophagus and become impacted there. 1 Langenbeck, Memorabilien, Heft 1, 1877 ; New York Med. Journ., July, 1877, p. 99. 1 Op. cit., vol. i. p. 71.