727 DISEASES OF THE CERVIX UTERI. be beneficial. Carbolic acid, either in combination with iodine, or alone, dissolved in glycerine, is a favorite application with some practitioners. In the graver forms of so-called ulceration a somewhat similar treatment may be pursued. Some resort to the actual cautery, but L. de Sinety gives his preference to chromic acid dissolved in an equal quantity of water. The application is made by means of a cotton-wrapped probe, or applicator, dipped in the solution, the adjacent parts of the uterine neck and of the vagina being protected by a roll of cotton first placed in a solution of bicarbonate of sodium; the application is followed by an injection of warm water. If necessary, the chromic acid solution may be applied to the cavity of the cervix. Thorough tamponing of the upper portion of the vagina by means of iodo- form-cotton dipped in glycerine, at intervals of three or four days, is often beneficial. For this to be done, the patient should lie upon her side, and the cervix should be exposed by a Sims’s speculum ; any displacement of the uterus is if possible first corrected, and then small pieces of iodoform-cotton, the size of a hulled walnut or rather smaller, after being dipped in glycerine, are carefully applied around the cervix, and if there be laceration the everted lips are pressed together by means of these balls; the packing is con- tinued until the upper third of the vagina is filled. The iodoform-cotton of the shops contains a much less quantity of the drug than cotton will take up ; to prepare it properly, loose cotton should be dipped in a saturated ethereal solution of iodoform, a deodorizer, oil of hitter almonds for example, being added, and then slowly dried. As a substitute for iodoform-cotton, simple cotton dipped in glycerine, that part of it which is to be in contact with the cervix being thickly covered with iodoform-ointment, may be used. The ointment may be made by thoroughly incorporating from one to two drachms of iodoform with one ounce of vaseline: two or three drops of oil of bitter almonds should be added. The preparatory treatment advised before operating for a lacerated cervix may also be adopted. If amendment under this treatment be incomplete, or only temporary, the question of tracheloplasty, elsewhere considered, will arise if the disease have originated in a childbirth injury to the cervix. Hypertrophy of the Cervix.—It is usual to divide cervical hypertrophies into those of the vaginal portion, those of the middle portion, and those of the supra-vaginal portion. (1) Hypertrophy of the Vaginal Portion.—In this variety of hypertrophy, which is usually congenital, the lower portion of the cervix may reach to the mouth of the vagina, or may even protrude from the vulva. The cervix is conical in form, and presents a uniform consistence. The vaginal vault is not depressed, but has its usual height, both anteriorly and posteriorly. If the woman be married she is sterile, and sutlers more or less in sexual inter- course. There is but one remedy for this condition, amputation of a portion of the cervix. The scissors is the best instrument for performing the operation, and the method of operating is that described as Simpson’s. (2) Hypertrophy of the Intermediate Portion.—In this variety the posterior vaginal vault is of the normal height, but the anterior has disappeared, the anterior wall of the vagina being prolapsed. Here again the surgical treat- ment most frequently resorted to is amputation, an incision being first made so as to divide the lips to the required height, and each lip being afterward cut off; sutures are then introduced. (3) Hypertrophy of the Supra- Vaginal Portion.—Here the hypertrophy affects that portion of the uterus which is situated above the vaginal attach-