140 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE RECTUM. should recommend a plain, sometimes even a low diet. lie should interdict both beer and spirits, and should restrict the drinking to a little light sherry, or to claret and Vichy or Seltzer water. Coffee should be given up, and weak tea substituted. A walk of three or four miles, at such speed as to induce slight perspiration, should be taken daily, and every morning a sponge-bath is strongly advisable, with, once a week, a warm or, better still, a Turkish bath. The anus and parts around it should be washed every night when retiring to bed with warm water and tar or Castile soap. The bowels must be well opened daily ; the following prescription will be found beneficial: sulphate of magnesium, 9j; powdered carbonate of magne- sium, gr. v ; wine of colchicum, v ; syrup of senna, t'5,j; compound tincture of cardamom, f3ss ; infusion of cinchona, f§j, twice or thrice in the day ; and I also often order two grains of Plummer’s pill with three grains of compound rhubarb pill, to be taken every other night for a week. I likewise frequently prescribe the mineral waters of Carlsbad, Friederichshall, Vichy, Hunyadi- Janos, etc. After washing the parts at night, let the patient apply this lotion on a piece of lint fixed with a T bandage: Sodse biboratis3i,j; morphise hydrocldor. gr. xvj ; acidi hydrocyan. dil. fgss. The lint may be kept moist with this lotion by dabbing it through the bandage. Calomel ointment and chloroform locally (chloroform, f 3\j, glycerines f3ss, ung. sambuci siss), sulphide of calcium inter- nally and externally, liquor carbonis detergens when there is much eczema, and carbolic glycerole, are all admirable remedies, and may well be tried in obstinate cases. When the surgeon has made up his mind that the disease is a nervous one, as I think it often is in spare and delicate, excitable people, he should give arsenic and quinine freely, and be prepared to push them to their physiolo- gical effect, at the same time of course using local means to allay irritation. In obstinate, old-standing cases, I usually commence treatment by rubbing the parts thoroughly with a solution of nitrate of silver, 9ij to f3j ; this softens the skin, and induces a more healthy action and secretion. The dis- order is much more common among men than among women ; it is not often met with in young persons. When an attack of pruritus comes on after mental overwork, bromide of potassium is very advantageous. Opium given Internally increases the disorder. I have for years past recommended the introduction into the anus, at bed- time, of a bone plug, shaped like the nipple of an infant’s feeding-bottle, with a circular shield to prevent it from slipping into the bowel; the nipple should be about an inch and a half in length, and as thick as the end of the fore- finger. I presume that it does good by exercising pressure upon the venous plexus and nerve-filaments close to the anus. At any rate, it stops the itch- ing and insures a good night’s rest. I advise it to be worn every other night. Pruritus caused by a vegetable parasite is readily cured by a lotion of sul- phurous acid, one part in six. Polypus of the Rectum. By the word “ polypus” I mean a pedunculated growth attached to the mucous membrane of the rectum, and generally situated not less than an inch from the anus. Polypi may be attached two inches up the bowel, but only occasionally more than that distance. Polypi have been usually described as of two kinds: the soft or follicular, and the hard or fibrous, the former being found in children and the latter in