704 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE FEMALE GENITALS. any other part of the vulva ; the disease may extend to the genito-crural folds, groins, perineum, anus, rectum, neighboring parts of the thighs, and mons veneris. In thirty-nine out of fifty-six cases mentioned by Parrot, the dis- ease occurred in connection with measles, while in only nine was it inde- pendent of any other affection. Purefoy1 says that there is a febrile condi- tion which lasts about three days before the local manifestation of the disease. Madden2 says that it is most frequent in the scrofulous and half-starved children of the poor. While improvement of nutrition and the administration of tonics are indicated, the local treatment is more important. Black wash, Condy’s fluid, a solution of carbolic acid, etc., are recommended by some surgeons; Parrot advises simply the employment of iodoform. This should be freely applied in the form of powder once a day to the diseased parts; the result is very prompt and satisfactory. Lupus. Huguier, in 1848, described under the name of esthiomhie, an affection of the vulva which most authors regard as lupus, analogous to the disease as it appears on the face. He made different varieties, superficial, deep, and hyper- trophic. According to Deschamps,3 under the name of esthiomene of the vulva, affections the most diverse from an anatomical point of view have been described—epithelioma, syphilis, tuberculosis, elephantiasis, etc.—and there- fore the term should be rejected. He even regards it as possible that the name of lupus will also disappear when it can be conclusively shown that the affection so designated is of a tuberculous nature. Lupus of the vulva has not been often observed, though possibly the disease is less infrequent than is generally supposed. Huguier reported nine cases, West4 five, Taylor5 six, Macdonald6 three, and Matthews Duncan7 four. Of these twenty-seven patients the youngest was thirteen, and the oldest fifty- seven years old. According to Taylor, when lupus presents the superficial or serpiginous form, the labia majora are generally affected first, or the crease between one of them and the thigh. Cutaneous tubercles are gradually developed; these vary in size, and in some cases are united at their borders so as to form masses which in their central part present ulcerations notable for their irregular borders, and hence called serpiginous ulcerations. The disease may involve the entire vulva, and may extend to the groins, to the perineum, and to the anal region. The ulcerated parts present a whitish or violet color. One part may be healing while the disease is invading another, and afterward that which has been healed may be again affected. If the ulceration be deep instead of superficial, perforation may take place into 'the bladder or into the rectum, or the ulceration may dissect away the cellular tissue around the latter, causing the organ to protrude for several inches. In the hypertrophic form, the nymphee and the hood of the clitoris are most frequently affected, although the disease may extend to the entire vulva; the diseased parts may be increased to four or five times their natural size. The secretion from ulcerated lupus is usually slight, not purulent, but serous; in some cases, however, a dirty, puriform discharge has been observed, and Duncan has called attention to lupus of the vulva especially characterized by bleeding. 1 American Journal of Obstetrics, October, 1882. 2 Ibid. 3 Archives de Tocologie, Mars, 1885. 4 Diseases of Women. 5 Transactions of the American Gynaecological Society, vol. vi. 6 Transactions of the Edinburgh Obstetrical Society, vol. ix. i Ibid.