INJURIES AND DISEASES OF TIIE (ESOPHAGUS. 14 gitis; disease of the cord consequent upon ulceration of the intervertebral substance,1 or wound of the cord from penetration through the same;2 and ulceration of the pericardium with fatal pericarditis.3 Should it be impossi- ble to remove a foreign body, or should a foreign body remain undetected, death may take place by starvation, the patient perhaps dying in delirium.4 Substances sometimes remain impacted for considerable periods, the patients becoming very much reduced.5 In some of these instances, the presence of the foreign body is not suspected or has been forgotten, and the patients are treated for paralysis of the oesophagus, for phthisis, and for other disorders usually productive of the special symptoms manifested. Treatment.—Should expulsion not take place spontaneously, or by the usual methods of relief employed by the sufferer or the bystanders, such as swallowing water or additional solid food, striking the patient on the hack, or provoking emesis by titillating the uvula or the pharynx, the services of the surgeon become necessary to dislodge the foreign body or to withdraw it. Should suffocation be threatened, prophylactic tracheotomy would he indi- cated in advance of attempts at interference with the foreign body. The character of the body and its location, as determined by the fingers or sound, will indicate the special method to be employed. Emesis may he tried in suitable cases. Should swallowing be impracticable, the medicament may be injected through a catheter, if such an instrument can he passed beyond the obstruction ;6 otherwise a hypodermic injection of apomorphine-hydro- chlorate, one-tenth of a grain for an adult, may he tried. Emesis is not advis- able in the case of sharp or irregular bodies, as it is likely to encourage further impaction, and to drive the points of the body into the mucous membrane or even through the walls of the oesophagus. If a coin or similar substance be lodged high up, it is recommended to lay the individual prone upon a table with the head supported over the edge b}7 an attendant, and then to intro- duce the finger far enough to drag the base of the tongue forward, in hope that the retching induced will force the substance out of the mouth. Should instrumental aid be requisite, the choice of appliance—hook, forceps, swollen sponge, or snare—will depend on the resources of the surgeon and on the character of the foreign body. Before the instrument is introduced into the gullet, it is well to let the patient swallow a little oil, if he can, or to pour some oil into the oesophagus, as recommended by Langenheck. The instru- ment must be warmed, to prevent spasm ; and oiled, so as to glide easily. Substances not far from the orifice may be seized with slender curved forceps, several varieties of which are here figured. (Figs. 1165-1168.) These instru- ments, carefully introduced, are used first as searchers and then as extractors. Linked or jointed forceps (Fig. 1169) are said to be particularly service- able. The revolving forceps of Gama (Fig. 1170), and the modification by Bryant,7 present peculiar facilities for grasping irregular bodies. It is some- 1 Ogle, Trans. Path. Soc. Lond., 1853. 2 Mackenzie, op. cit., vol. ii. p. 192. 3 Buist, Charleston Med. Journal, 1858; Conant, Am. Med. Times, p. 209. 1864. 4 Toussaint Martin, Recueil de Mem. de Med. de Chir. et de Phar. Militaires, 2e Serie, t. xxxvii. p. 260. 3 Hayem, case cited by Poulet (a set of false teeth were ejected during a fit of coughing, fifteen months after the accident) ; Evans, Lancet, July 19, 1879, p. 75 (impaction of gold plate and false teeth for upwards of two years, patient having lived in a state of semi-starvation ; ejected by emesis) ; Gastellier, Journ. Gen. de Med., t. xxiii. p. 147, cited by Poulet (a coin remained lodged for six months, the patient sinking into the last stages of marasmus, and then dropped into the stomach ; the patient discharged a large amount of pus ; the foreign body was not evacuated until thirty-five years afterwards) ; Gauthier, case cited by Poulet (a bone discharged by vomiting after fourteen years’ impaction in the oesophagus, patient recovering entirely from protracted emaciation and simulated phthisis within six weeks after expulsion). 6 Habel, Arch. f. klin. Chirurgie, 1862; cited by Poulet. 7 Op. cit., p. 450.