79 OPERATIVE TREATMENT OF INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTION. It consists in making an incision from two to three inches in length, parallel to and a little above the line of Poupart’s ligament, and midway between the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium and the spine of the pubis. The tissues having been cautiously divided asinenterotomy, the colon is drawn forwards, and is opened as it is in Amussat’s method. This operation, in cases of rectal stricture, is usually performed on the left side, opening the sigmoid flexure ; but when required for obstruction of the colon it should be practised on the right side, opening the caecum. Verneuil has modified Littre’s ope- ration by making the incision in the direction of a line drawn from the umbilicus to the"junction of the outer and middle thirds of Poupart’s liga- ment, resecting instead of simply incising the colon, and making a section of the part, so as to allow the formation of an eperon to prevent the entrance of fecal matter into the lower segment of the bowel. The great advantage of Amussat’s over Littre’s operation is in the circum- stance, that by the lumbar incision the abdominal cavity is not opened, the colon being approached on that side which is not covered by peritoneum. The operation is comparatively easy when the bowel is distended with fecal matter, but under opposite conditions, as when it is performed for stricture without obstruction, it may be attended with considerable difficulty ; in such a case it would be well to distend the bowel with air before beginning the operation, so as, if practicable, to render the position of the colon more apparent. Some trouble is commonly experienced at first from prolapsus of the bowel through the artificial anus, but as the parts contract in healing, the tendency to protrude is lessened, and it may even become necessary at last to adopt means to keep the artificial anus patulous. To prevent protru- sion, Dr. Maclaren employs an “ enterotomy tube” which somewhat resembles the supra-pubic vesical tube formerly employed by Sir Henry Thompson in cases of inveterate prostatic hypertrophy. In order to protect the clothing and prevent the escape of fecal matter at inconvenient times, an obturator may be worn, composed of ivory or hard rubber, fastened to a plate of similar material, and held in place with a truss or bandage. The statistics of colotomy have been particularly investigated by Hawkins, Mason, Bulteau, Van Erckelens, and W. R. Batt, of Philadelphia, who has collected and analyzed no less than 351 cases, a much larger number than has hitherto been brought together. Dr. Batt’s researches were made on my suggestion, in 1884, as the subject of an inaugural thesis which was deemed worthy of a prize, and I am permitted to avail myself of them in this article. His tables, which are very elaborate, contain a great many in- teresting particulars which I am obliged to omit for want of space. The individual records of Mr. Allingham, Mr. Bryant, and Mr. Reeves, are pro- bably larger than those of any other surgeons: of 69 terminated cases recorded by the first-named writer up to the year 1884, only two ended fatally as the direct result of the operation, and of 53 cases recorded by the last-named only seven ; but 82 cases in Mr. Bryant’s hands gave 33 deaths (within one month), and only 49 more or less permanent recoveries.