URINARY CALCULUS. 192 .Chronic thickening of the bladder, with or without tumor, ulcer, or heter- ologous deposit; feces in the rectum ; pelvic exostosis; a displaced uterus; the hard pelvic brim, with a thin bladder-wall lying against it; a prominent sacral angle, and many other physical irregularities, have been mistaken for stone. In one case with which I am familiar, a small stone was felt in a child. The lateral operation was performed. The bladder was distended, and a gush of urine followed the withdrawal of the knife. A search for stone was now instituted without result, when finally it occurred to the operator to examine the clotted blood in the vessel containing the urine, and there a small stone was found, evidently having been expelled by the first gush of urine. Nourse is quoted by Gross1 as reporting a case wherein nine calculi were lodged in six sacculi; and, although stone was once touched by the searcher, numerous subsequent examinations failed to detect it. lie refers also to Pott’s case of calculus in a hernial pouch of the bladder situated in the groin, and to Hartmann’s, where a stone weighing three ounces was found in a hernial pouch of the bladder situated in one of the labia of a woman. When very large stones have escaped detection, it is supposed either that the sound entered between the stone and the wall of the bladder, and was there so tightly held that it could not be rotated to strike the stone (but why the gritting sensation was not experienced, it is hard to understand)—or that the searcher failed to enter the bladder at all, being rotated in some dilated por- tion of the urethra mistaken for the bladder, as in two cases noted by Pelle- tan.2 A pouched prostatic sinus may also be mistaken for the bladder in an old man, and thus a stone be overlooked. I have encountered an instance of this sort, and others are on record in which, the prostate being destroyed by suppuration (Muller, Civiale), the patient has been cut into this cavity and not into the bladder, and no stone has been detected until subsequently revealed by an autopsy. Hence it would seem that the masters of surgery in former days had good reason in formulating the cardinal rule in lithotomy, that even after the pre- sence of a calculus had been recognized, and the patient was placed upon the table, if the stone could not be struck then and there, it was better to defer the operation. It is difficult to imagine sometimes what it has been which has deceived the skilled touch, but grave errors have arisen, and their lesson must not be disregarded. In many cases where a doubt suggests itself that there may be no stone, although something is struck by the searcher which resembles stone, a small lithotrite, by grasping the foreign body and moving it, will clear up all uncertainty. Finally, it must be remembered that sounding a patient for the first time is an operation not devoid of risk. Fatal cystitis has been occasioned by it in more than one instance (Front, Fletcher, Civiale, Crosse, and others). No unnecessarily prolonged, rough, or repeated manipulations should be prac- tised at a first sitting, or indeed at any time. The Preventive Treatment of Stone. Prevention, as a treatment for expected stone, is generally first thought of after a patient has passed a renal concretion. But the question may arise earlier than this, in connection with a possible inherited tendency to calculous disease, or in directing a course of life for a patient who persistently voids large quanti- ties of crystals. Of the two great classes of stone, one, the primary, is of consti- 1 Op. cit., pp. 205-207. 2 Segalas, Essai sur la Gravelle et la Pierre, 2me 6d., p. 155. 1839.