567 HYDROCELE. injected at the same time, as the operation is a mild one. When the hydro- cele cannot be cured by injection, the more severe plan of passing a seton may be resorted to, or better still the antiseptic incision. A man aged fifty-one, under Professor Billroth’s care, presented a tumor in the scrotum, which had existed for ten years and was the size of a fist and of almost bony hardness. The tunica vaginalis had to he laid open with hone pliers, as its inner sur- face was covered with layers of calcareous deposit; most of these were removed, and the rest were thrown off by subsequent suppuration. Mr. Jacobson1 reports that, of forty-four cases which had been injected with iodine at Guy’s Hospital, the treatment failed in eight cases, and in two it failed twice. The causes to which failure to cure a hydrocele may be most commonly attributed, are excessive thickening of the tunica vaginalis, which is unable to collapse; syphilitic disease of the testicle; and the presence of cystic hydrocele of the testicle, and, on some very rare occasions, loose bodies in the tunica vaginalis. It is necessary to empty the sac thoroughly and to use a solution of iodine of sufficient strength ; fewer failures will follow the use of a strong, than that of a weak tincture. Nitrate of silver has been introduced into the tunica vaginalis for the radical cure of hydrocele by M. Maisonneuve. This may be done by passing a silver probe coated with the salt through the canula before its withdrawal, and touching the membrane freely; or a director carrying a little powdered nitrate of silver in its groove may be passed through the canula and made to deposit the powder within the cavity. Iodo- form has been introduced for the cure of hydrocele much in the same way, and lias proved successful. M. Monod,2 having withdrawn a small portion of the fluid, injects a little alcohol. Carbolic acid has been much lauded by Dr. Levis,3 of Philadelphia, because he finds that it produces just the proper degree of inflammation necessary to cause the deposition of plastic lymph, and because it is less painful than the injection of iodine. After tapping in the usual way, Dr. Levis, by means of a syringe having a nozzle sufficiently long and slender to reach entirely through the canula, injects about one drachm of crystallized carbolic acid, maintained in a liquid state by a five or ten per cent, addition of either water or glycerine. No more fluid is to be used for dilution than is absolutely necessary, but liquefaction by heat will not answer. As soon as the carbolic acid has been introduced, it is diffused throughout the sac by freely shaking the scrotum. A sense of warmth is produced, which is quickly followed by a decided numbness. The patient may walk about and attend to his duties for twenty-four hours, after which he should keep quiet. No toxic effects have followed this injection. At times bleeding follows immediately, or soon after the operation for hydrocele, and converts the case into one of hsematocele. A short time back I tapped the hydrocele of a man over seventy years of age, whom I had tapped periodically for fourteen years for the complaint. No mishap of any kind took place at the operation. The man remained quiet at his son's house for twenty-four hours, and then went home by tram-car, as he lived a short distance from London. I was requested in a few days to see him at his house, and found that he had been shivering and was feverish, with a dry tongue and quick pulse; he was restless in consequence of severe pain in the scrotum, which was much swollen, very red, and cedematous. I drew off with a somewhat large trocar and canula the contents of the swelling, which consisted of blood-stained fluid, soft blood-clots, and lymph. I then slit up the sac, which was much thickened, and like wash-leather in appearance, but rotten, as it gave way when a ligature was applied. The man attributed the accident to two violent jolts, which had caused acute pain in the part, received when riding home in the tram-car. 1 Lancet, vol. ii. 1877. 2 Journ. de Med. et de Chir. Prat., Decernbre, 1871 3 Trans. Med. Soc. Penn., 1881.