APPENDIX. 1184 who is worthy of special mention. He was sergeant-surgeon of Edward III., in 1846, and a man of large experience, who wrote a work on surgery which was characterized by simplicity, frankness, and honesty. He well deserves to be styled the Father of English Surgery. Several manuscripts of his work are preserved in the libraries of Great Britain. One has recently been described in The Dublin Journal of Medical Science. This MS. is entitled “ The Workes of Maister John Arderne, Chirurgeon of Newarke, in Nottinghamshire, written by his own hand, in the year of our Lord 1349.” He also wrote a special work on “ Fistulie in the fundament, etc.,” which disease he treated with remarkable skill. This work was translated by John Read, and pub- lished in English, at London, in 1588. It is a small quarto of twenty-eight leaves or fifty-six pages. It commences thus : “ Heere beginneth a treatise of the Fistula, in the fundament, or other places of the body, and of Impos- tliumes causing Fistulaes, and of the office pertaining to the Chirurgion: with certain other things. By M. Iolm Arden. Prologus. Anno Domine 1349.” Then follow brief allusions to his personal history, by which we learn that he “ Iohn Arden from the first pestilence in the yeere of our Lord God 1349. Dwelled in New-warke, in Nottingham shire, unto the yeere of our Lord 1370. And there healed many of the Fistula* in the fundament,” also “ Afterward in Anno 1370, I came to London.” He relates many cases, and describes the instruments employed, all of which is done in a spirit of honesty and humility, lie remarks, in his “ Prologus,” “ Therefore to the honour of almightie God, that opened knowledge to mee, that I should finde treasure within the fielde of knowledge, that with longe time and panting breast, I have sweat and travailed, and full busilie indevored my selfe as my facultie suffiseth, to sette foorth this worke faithfullie, for the utillitie and profit of those that come after.” His treatment of fistula in ano was either by incision or by ligature. John was very careful to make a good bargain. “You ought to foreshew unto the patient the hardnesse of the cure, which, if he bee conformable unto, you may proceede in gods name unto your cure, with this caveat, to take for your cure as much as you can with good assurance for your mony when you have done.” Yet, withal, he lays down a high-toned ethical code for the guidance of the faculty. He gives “a description of ye qualities and condi- tions which ought to be in ye surgeon that performeth this or any other operation in chirurgerv: First, that he be devout. Secondlie, charitable to ye poor. Thirdly, to use few words. Fourthly, to avoid drunkenness. Fifthly, to be chaste both in words and gesture, as well as to fear ye not. Sixthly, not to undertake an incurable disease.” Two events occurred in the fifteenth century which gave a great impetus to the advancement and diffusion of medical and surgical knowledge through- out Europe. The first was the capture of Constantinople by the Turks, which occasioned a multitude of Christians to flee from that city into Italy. These refugees brought with them many rare and precious manuscripts of Greek medical writers, hitherto unknown, some of which were subsequently trans- lated into Latin, while others in the original were soon to be broadly dis- seminated through the agency of the second great event, the invention of printing. This invention cannot be sufficiently appreciated. It constitutes an epoch in the world’s history. The close of the fifteenth century added another event to surgical history of incalculable importance. The discovery of America led to an interconti- nental exchange of two of the most loathsome diseases which afflict the human family—pox and smallpox. Europe gave America smallpox, and received in return syphilis. The former disease has already been mitigated and its extinction rendered possible by the immortal Jenner; so let us watch