1174 APPENDIX. ning irons, and by excision with the scalpel, followed by the actual cautery. The object of the cautery was twofold, viz: the arrest of hemorrhage and the eradication of the disease. One of the most interesting things found in the works of Avicenna, is his mention of the obstetric forceps, which is the earliest reference to that instru- ment in any of the ancient treatises. Difficult labor is treated of by this author in a very exhaustive manner. In some cases of difficult delivery—- owing to the large size of the child—he directs us to apply a fillet around the child’s head and endeavor to extract it. When this fails the forceps are to be applied, and the child extracted by them. If this cannot be accom- plished, the child is to be extracted by incision, as in case of a dead foetus. This passage furnishes unmistakable proof that the Arabians were acquainted with the method of extracting the child alive by the obstetric forceps. All the forceps mentioned and figured by Albucasis have teeth, and were only intended for the delivery of the foetus when dead. Fistula in ano was treated, from the earliest times, by ligature, and also by incision. Avicenna preferred to silken or hempen thread, as a ligature,, twisted hairs or bristles of the hog, as they were less likely to rot or putrefy. We would now say more antiseptic. He speaks favorably of refracturing bones which have united with much deformity. Thus it is seen that surgery was still fairly understood by the Arabians in the early part of the eleventh century. Another century brings us to the time when surgery was taught in western Europe, particularly in Moorish Spain, by the celebrated Albucasis and his immediate successor Avenzohar. Albucasis was born near Cordova about the year of Grace 1060, and probably died in 1122. He informs us that in his time surgery was in a most deplorable condition. It was on this account that he determined to write his work on surgery, which is a small treatise,, being a sort of supplement to his greater work on the theory and practice of medicine. This fragment is considered to be one of the most curious and valuable monuments of Arabian medicine. The following are the reasons, as given by himself, which induced him to prepare his “Dc Clururgia,” or “ Al-Tasrif,” which is the Arabic word for “ The Art of Healing.” After having terminated, happily enough, the work on medicine which I undertook for your instruction, my sons, 1 have thought it proper to add to it a small treatise on manual operations, seeing that this part of our science is so much neglected in our country at the present time, that there remain scarcely any vestiges of it. We can only find a few short descriptions of operations in the books of the ancients; they are, how- ever, disfigured by the ignorance of the bookmakers ; the manuscripts are so faulty that at every step we are in such doubt as to the sense of the authors, that no one dare enter into the study of surgery. I have, therefore, undertaken this little treatise for the purpose of reviving this most important and useful branch of our art. I have detailed, briefly the methods of operation, I have described all the necessary instruments, and I present their forms, by means of drawings ; in a word, I have omitted nothing of what can shed light on the practice. But one of the principal reasons why it is so rare to meet a skilful surgeon is, that the apprenticeship to this branch is very long, and he that devotes himself to it must be versed in the science of anatomy, of which Galen has transmitted us the knowledge. He should know the functions of organs, their shape, and their relations ; the number of the bones, and their modes of union ; the origin and termination of the muscles, the nerves, the arteries, and the veins. In fine, no one should permit himself to attempt this difficult art without having a perfect knowledge of anatomy, and of the action of remedies.1 There are good reasons for considering Albucasis and Alzaharavius to be one and the same surgical author. The earliest figures or drawings of surgical 1 De Chirurgia, lib. i.