1025 CLUB-FOOT. The most favorable time for commencing treatment is when the infant is about six weeks old, but much depends upon the condition of the patient: in a robust, healthy child, an earlier commencement may be made, while in a weak infant treatment should be delayed; from two weeks to three months may be estimated as the limit of age in the respective conditions. After the deformed foot has been restored, the use of the instrument must he continued until the child is able to walk, when a light steel support, fixed to the boot, will be required ; in slight cases, a bar extending to the calf on the inner side of the leg, with a free joint at the ankle, and a strap attached to the boot so as to brace up the foot against the support, is sufficient to keep the foot in good position when walking ; in cases of more severe deformity, the instrument must he extended to the thigh, or if necessary to the waist, to overcome any tendency to adduction of the limb which may be present. The shoe must be worn at night, and instrumental treatment continued, until the foot is perfectly restored to the normal state ; although a difference of opinion still exists as to whether spasmodic contraction of one set of muscles, or paralysis of their opponents, is the exciting cause of congenital varus, few surgeons will dispute the fact that an abnormal condition of the muscles is the source of deformity, and the supporters of either of the two theories must be in accord upon one point, viz., that until the muscles are restored to a normal condition the exciting cause of distortion still exists, and will to a certainty, if not counteracted, reproduce the displacement of the foot. It must there- fore he accepted as an established rule, that the treatment of congenital varus is not successfully concluded until the subject is able to walk with the foot everted, and with the plantar surface placed well on the ground. Congenital Varus in Advanced Life.—Congenital varus, when not relieved in infancy, becomes with advancing age greatly increased in degree; and this is probably due, not as much to shortening of the contracted muscles, as to the mechanical effects of pressure brought to hear upon the foot when used in standing and walking. The structural defects in a case of advanced varus are of the same nature as those already described as existing in the infant, but they become aggravated by time, and are more firmly established ; the growth of the foot is checked, and the tarsal bones are badly developed, their articular surfaces being also very irregular in shape and position. The os calcis, in addition to an increase in the vertical direction which it assumes in the infant, becomes changed in shape from arrested growth of the greater tuberosity ; the displacement of the astragalus from the tibia is more marked, and the head and neck of this bone are small in size, whilst the latter is still further deflected inwards; the articular surface on the outer side of this bone is separated from the external malleolus, and that on the inner side is imperfectly devel- oped. The scaphoid bone is the most seriously displaced of all the tarsal hones, its position being the same as in the case of infantile de- formity, but its abnormalities in this respect being much exaggerated; the cuboid bone is dragged inwards and partially dislocated from the os calcis ; the cuneiform bones retain their places on the scaphoid; and the metatarsal bones, which follow them and the cuboid, are much pressed together. The ligaments are seriously implicated in the deformity; the plantar fascia and calcaneo-cuboid and calcaneo- vol. vi.—65 Fig. 1477. Advanced congenital yarns.