A HISTORY OF SURGERY. BY GEORGE JACKSON EISHER, A.M., M.D., OF SING SING, N. T. The International Encyclopaedia is presumed to fairly represent the present advanced state of the noble and useful Art and Science of Surgery. To trace the gradual evolution of this department of the healing art from the earliest period of reliable records to the present century, is the duty assigned to the writer of these pages. The subject is far too extensive to admit of exhaustive treatment within the circumscribed limits to which the practical character of this work necessarily confines it. Hence, little more than the outlines, or an epitome, of the history of surgery can be attempted, which, for those who have already familiarized themselves with the subject, will fail to contribute much to their acquirements. On the other hand, it is hoped that this sketch will prove both interesting and instructive to students, and to practitioners whose time has not permitted them to engage in medico-historical researches. Should it serve the laudable purpose of stimulating an increased taste for Medical and Surgical History, and at the same time aid the reader by point- ing to more ample sources of information relating to this fascinating subject, the cardinal intention of the author will have been fulfilled. Surgery has no proper history previous to the Hippocratean epoch. There are a few casual references, and interesting fragments still extant, which suggest that the art of surgery existed long anterior to the period when were made the reliable records which have survived the destroying agencies of more than twenty centuries of time. The Sacred Scriptures furnish us with the earliest mention of any surgical operation. The five books of Moses were written fifteen hundred years before the advent of Christianity. The first operation of circumcision was performed on Abraham, when he was ninety years of age, which was about 1897 years before Christ. Circumcision was done with sharp Ethiopian stones. “Then Zipporah took a sharp stone and cut off the foreskin of her son and cast it at his (Moses) feet.” The practice of using sharp stones for circumcision was continued by the Ethiopians at least as late as 1581 of our era. Sharp stones were also used in very ancient times to open the abdomen for the purpose of evisceration, as a preliminary to embalming. Embalming was done in Egypt, and probably elsewhere, by physicians. When Jacob died, “Joseph commanded his servants, the physicians, to embalm him ; and the 'physicians embalfned Israel, and the forty days were fulfilled for him, for so are fulfilled the days of those that are embalmed.” It is doubtful that any useful anatomical knowledge could have been obtained by the embalmers. To be sure, they could observe the size, situation, and general appearance of the viscera, but this would be about the extent of ( H46 )