714 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE FEMALE GENITALS. consists in removing that part of the cyst which projects above the vaginal surface, with the vaginal mucous membrane, and then stitching together the margins of the cyst and vagina, as shown in Fig. 1402 ; the exposed part of the cyst-wall which is left, covered with cylindrical epithelium, very soon assumes the characters of the vaginal mucous membrane, and cannot be dis- tinguished from it. Extirpation of a portion of the cyst followed by tam- poning the cavity may succeed. If hemorrhage after extirpation of a cyst be troublesome, it can be arrested by deep sutures; these also secure earlier healing. Fibroids.—»-(Myomata, Fibromyomata, Fibroid Tumors.)— The vagina in comparison with the uterus is very rarely the seat of these tumors; Klein- wachter1 has collected fifty cases. Myomata are the least, fibroid tumors the most frequent. The subjects are generally adults, though these growths have been found in children. They are somewhat more frequent upon the anterior than upon the posterior wall of the vagina. They may be sessile, or peduncu- lated, and in the latter case they are usually known as fibrous polypi. Their size varies from that of a pea to that of a child’s head; in a case reported by Gremler,2 the tumor weighed ten pounds and one ounce; they grow slowly, and rapidity of growth would indicate a sarcoma rather than a fibroma. They may originate in the submucous, in the muscular, or in the connective tissue surrounding the vagina. Macan3 has reported a case in which the tumor was attached to the anterior and also to the posterior wall of the vagina, the secondary attachment being of course a consequence of ulceration. A small tumor may not cause any inconvenience or disorder, but a large one interferes with the functions of neighboring organs as well as with that of the vagina, and is not unusually a source of vaginal hemorrhage, or other discharge. The only treatment of course is extirpation, and the method, when the tumor is pedunculated, is the same as in the case of pedunculated cysts. If the growth be sessile, enucleation is required, and in this operation, enough of the vaginal tissue over the tumor must be removed to prevent the forma- tion of a pocket; the use of the fingers and handle of the scalpel in detaching the growth guards against hemorrhage during the operation, while deep sutures furnish the best security against this accident afterwards. Cancer of the Vagina.— Primary cancer of the vagina is exceedingly rare, as may be inferred from the statement recently made by Grammatikati,4 that only thirty-eight cases of the affection have been published. In twenty-two cases analyzed by Iviistner, two of the subjects were between fifteen and twenty, while nine were between thirty-one and forty years of age. The disease usually occurs upon the posterior wall of the vagina, while in those cases in which cancer extends to the vagina from the neck of the womb, the anterior wall is more frequently affected. The disease may be of either the epithelial or the scirrhous variety. The symptoms are chiefly pain, offensive discharge, and hemorrhage; the pain is very slight in the early stages of the disease. Cancer of the vagina may present itself in the form of a broad-based papillomatous tumor, or of diffuse infiltration. Sarcoma.—This disease is still less frequent than cancer of the vagina, Sanger,5 in 1880, having been able to find only seven cases; since then a few 1 Zeitschrift f. Heilkunde, 1882. * Med. Zeitung, 1843. 3 Dublin Journal of Medical Sciences, 1881. 4 Centralblatt ftir Gynakologie, 1885. 5 Wiener med. Wochensclirift, 1880.