ACUTE INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTION. 47 apt, according to Leichtenstern’s statistics, to lodge in the lower portion of the ilemn, and next in the duodenum or jejunum ; when once they have passed the ileo-csecal valve, they meet with no further interruption until they reach the anus, when they may be arrested by the sphincter, and require instrumental aid for their expulsion. But in fatal cases of obstruction from gall-stones, the offending bodies have, according to Treves, invariably been found in the small and never in the large intestine. Gall-stones are the cause of intestinal obstruction much more frequently in women than in men—in the proportion of four to one—and are met with almost exclusively in per- sons past the middle period of life, the average age in 16 cases collected by Treves having been 57 years. Though of frequent occurrence, however, they rarely cause occlusion, cases of this kind forming, according to Leichten- stern’s statistics, less than four per cent, of all cases of obstruction. In rare instances gall-stones may cause abscess and fistula, and the calculus may thus escape externally. Enterolites, or intestinal concretions, are of' several distinct varieties: (1) They may consist of mineral substances, chiefly phosphatic, combined with animal matter and sometimes cholesterine. These are analogous to the intestinal concretions or bezoar-stones found in the lower animals; (2) They may be formed by densely packed masses of vegetable substances, mingled with fecal matter and a small proportion of mineral constituents. Under this head are to be placed the avenolites, or “ oat-stones,” said by Treves to be not uncom- mon in Scotland, where oat-meal is a frequent article of diet, as also the concretions of starch and cocoa-nut fibres observed by Dr. Harley, Dr. Down, and others; (3) A third variety of intestinal concretion is formed by the aggregation of substances which have been swallowed, as medicines or other- wise. Among these may be mentioned carbonate of magnesium and iron (Hutchinson), chalk (Bamberger), and benzoin (Erichsen). Enterolites rarely cause obstruction—in less than two per cent, of all cases, according to Leich- tenstern. They do so three times as often in men as in women, in this respect reversing the proportions of the sexes thus affected by biliary calculi. Intussusception or invagination of the bowel is one of the most frequent causes of acute obstruction, and certainly the most frequent cause of obstruc- tion which ends in death, no less than 43 per cent, of fatal cases, according to Brinton’s statistics, and more than 38 per cent, according to Leichtenstern’s more extended figures, being due to this cause. The affection is more com- mon in the male than in the female sex, and during infancy much more common. According to Mr. Treves, one-half of all cases occur during the first ten years of life, and one-fourth during the first twelve-month. In the very large majority of cases it is the upper segment of bowel which is inva- ginated into the lower—as the ileum into the ciecum—though occasionally the invagination is in the opposite direction, when the case is said to be one of retrograde intussusception. It is right to add that in the multiple invagin- ations which, as is well known, often occur during the act of dying, retro- grade intussusceptions are not uncommon ; but the invaginations which occur during life, and which alone cause intestinal obstruction demanding the attention of the surgeon, are almost invariably direct. An intussuscep- tion embraces, of course, three layers of bowel, each involving all the coats of the gut: the external layer is called the sheath, or receiving layer—the intussuscipiens—while the internal or entering layer, and the middle or return- ing layer together constitute the intussusceptum; the neck of the intussuscep- tion is the junction of the external and middle layers, and its apex that of the middle and internal layers. In some cases an intussusception is found to embrace Jive layers of gut, either a second intussusceptum having been