38 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE (ESOPHAGUS. skilled surgeon, who was assisting, to substitute a rigid stomach-tube, even- tuated in his missing the opening and passing the tube into the mediastinum ; an accident undiscovered until after the death of the patient on the following day. (Esophagotomy for the removal of foreign bodies appears to have been prac- tised, according to Dr. Ashhurst’s statistics,1 in 65 cases, of which 52 are said to have ended in recovery. The same writer has tabulated 36 cases of cesopliagostomy,2 of which at least 27 proved fatal, one of these, however, having been subjected to gastrostomy ns well. (2) Internal (Esophagotomy.—This operation, similarly to the analogous operation of internal urethrotomy, contemplates nicking or cutting into cicatricial tissues by means of a scarificator concealed in a canulated tube—an oesophagotome—introduced into the oesophagus. The first two operations, it appears, were performed by Maisonneuve in 1861,3 at intervals of but four days, and since that period similar procedures have been practised in some eighteen or more instances. This operation is regarded as unnecessary by some surgeons,4 5 who believe dilatation practicable in any instance permitting the passage of an oesophagotome through a stricture; as inefficient, because of the frequent failure to overcome the stricture, and the necessity for repeated operations and systematic or continuous dilatation afterwards; and as hazard- ous, because of the risk of penetrating the oesophagus, and of dividing large or enlarged bloodvessels. For these reasons internal oesophagotomy has not received the general sanction of the profession. I have no personal experience with it. The operation is performed with an oesophagotome (Fig. 1183),. Fig. 1183. Mackenzie’s oesophagotome. consisting of a tube, carrying a wire, to which is attached a knife which can be protruded at will. Some instruments are single-bladed and some are double-bladed. The curved tube being passed beyond the stricture, the knife is projected so that it cuts through the tissues as the entire instrument is withdrawn. One or several incisions are made before the instrument is removed. Repetitions of the operation are practised from time to time, until dilatation by bougies seems practicable without it. When the oesophago- tome cannot be passed through the stricture, it is sometimes made to cut its way through. This procedure is deemed dangerous even by those who com- mend the instrument. Twenty recorded cases of internal oesophagotomy appear to have afforded fourteen more or less permanent recoveries and six deaths.6 (3) Combined (Esophagotomy.—External oesophagotomy having been prac- tised, the stricture is divided from the inside. Gussenbauer,6 who named the procedure “ combined oesophagotomy,”7 and who performed the first two operations,8 used a herniotome passed upon a grooved director; Von Berg- mann used a tenotome; Sands9 a probe-pointed eye-knife. The first three 1 Op. cit. . 2 Ibid. 3 Clinique Chirurgicale, t. ii. p. 409. Paris, 1864. 4 Campbell. 6 Aslihurst, op. cit. 6 Zeitschrift fiir Heilkunde, Bd. iv. S. 33, 20 Marz, 1883. 7 Deutsche rned. Woch., 24 Oct. 1883. 5 Ogston, of Aberdeen, had previously supplemented ordinary cesophagostomy by dividing the stricture on a grooved director ; his patient died from hemorrhage on the sixteenth day. 9 Med. News, May 24, 1884, p. 629. 4