34 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF TIIE CESOPIIAGUS. from electricity are hardly sufficient to justify the risk of injury by undue excitation of the pneumogastric nerve. Exsection of a pharyngeal diverticu- lum, through the external wound of pharyngotomy or cesophagotomy, has been suggested as a feasible operation, but I am unaware of any instance in which this operation has been attempted. (Esophageal Instruments. Introduction of the Stomach-Tube.—The patient should be in the sitting position, with the head bent back and supported upon the breast of the sur- geon, or of an assistant, in such a direction as to bring the mouth and pharynx as much as possible in line with the oesophagus; or the recumbent position may be adopted, with the head hanging down beyond the edge of the couch or table, and supported in the hands of an assistant. The tube, previously warmed by friction or by hot water, and then lubricated with vaseline, gly- cerine, ointment, or oil, is next taken in one hand, while with the index or middle linger of the other, the surgeon directs the instrument beyond the epi- glottis, or into one of the sinuses between the larynx and pharynx, and then gently presses it down into the oesophagus, the patient, if conscious, making- voluntary efforts to swallow its extremity. Should resistance from spasmodic contraction be felt, the tube should be held in position for a few moments, and should be pushed onward at the first, sign of relaxation of the spasm. The tube should then be passed down until its extremity has entei-ed the stomach, the average distance of which from the teeth is about twelve inches in the full-grown adult. In the presence of actual or threatened softening or ulceration, the possibility of perforation or rupture from frequent introduction of the tube is to be appre- hended. Under these conditions it is preferable to keep the instrument con- tinuously in position, for which purpose a soft-rubber or other flexible tube is used, of no greater calibre than can be passed through the nose. When the end of the tube reaches the pharynx, it is directed into the oesophagus by the fingers of the surgeon’s unengaged hand. The free extremity is secured by threads and adhesive strips, or bandages, to the ear or top of the head, and is kept occluded by cork or string when not in immediate use. Krishaber has reported four cases1 in which a soft-rubber tube, passed through the naris, was safely retained in position for periods varying from forty-six to three hundred and five days, for the latter period in a case of carcinoma. Bougies and Dilators.—Various forms of bougie are used for the purpose of detecting and dilating strictures. They are introduced in the same manner Fig. 1180. Sectional outlines of Mackenzie’s bougie. as the stomach-tube. Bougies similar to those used in dilating urethral stric- tures, but of larger size, are much employed, some of equal calibre throughout, 1 Trans. Int. Med. Congress, vol. ii. p. 392. London, 1881.