SCROFULO-TUBERCULOUS AFFECTIONS OF BONES. 927 great prognostic importance. At the two extremes of life, tuberculous osteo- pathies are of greater gravity. Finally, whatever may be the variety of tuberculous osteopathy, the prog- nosis is influenced by the general condition of the patient, his degree of heredity, and by the number of internal or external tuberculous affections which he exhibits. M. Ollier,1 after having established the fact that patho- logical anatomy has not yet been able to furnish us with an infallible means of prognostication, adds: “ It is upon other considerations that a prognosis must be based ; upon the course of the disease and on the nature of the soil in which it develops. There is a serious tuberculosis and a benign tuber- culosis. There is a generalized tuberculosis and a localized tuberculosis. There is a tuberculosis which inevitably progresses, there is another which tends to stop of itself. The one develops itself like an infectious and fatal disease; the other produces serious, local destruction, but has not, at a cer- tain state of its evolution at least, this invading course, and remains for a long time limited to the.point originally affected. Experimental analy- sis may some day show us what clinical analysis has already led us to suspect, that is to say, affections of different nature among those which we now group together under the name of tuberculosis. It is probable that we con- found under this name different pyogenic affections.” M. Ollier admits the contagiousness of tuberculosis, which has been so clearly demonstrated by the experiments of Yillemin and of Chauveau, and which are likely to find a still more precise explanation in the investigations of Toussaint and of Koch. “ But,” he says, “ there are already go^ many doubtful microbes, that it would be imprudent to accept a solution which is still only probable.” While awaiting the discovery of a demonstrable and really characteristic microbe in the blood of tuberculous persons, and until the method of experi- mental inoculations shall be made practically applicable, there remain for the surgeon, in order to estimate the degree of gravity of the different cases which are presented to him, only “ study of the patient, study of the soil, consideration of the course of the affection based upon the reactional pheno- mena, and minute study of the internal organs (lungs, kidneys, intestines) which clinical observation teaches us are the usual theatre of tuberculous manifestations.”2 Treatment of Tuberculo-Scrofulous Osteopathies.—The treatment ought to be directed not only by the local condition, but also and especially by the general condition, since the affection of the bones is only a manifestation of the constitutional vice, hereditary or acquired, which has engendered it. I. General Treatment.—The treatment should therefore be above all medical. I shall consider this first, in order to show the importance which should be attached to it. All the means of hygiene, and of reconstructive therapeutics, ought to be employed : Cireumfusa et ingesta. Let us consider the former first. The question of the medium, of the habitat, leads all others. Most young subjects affected with scrofulo-tuber- culous osteopathies have lived in badly ventilated, damp, cold, and dirty dwellings, in unhealthy quarters of large cities, or in the defective lodgings of poor peasants. It is also a matter of observation that, all other things being equal, cold and wet climates furnish a more considerable contingent to diseases of the bones than warm and dry climates do. 1 Sur les resections et les amputations cliez les tuberculeux. s Ibid.