445 FOREIGN BODIES IN THE URETHRA. which is often hard to recognize, and which is placed nearer the upper than the lower surface. Here, as in the penile portion, the deposits accumulate Fig. 1319. Urethral calculus composed of ten pieces. (After Voillemier). chiefly at the posterior part of the calculus. This mode of increase may give rise to the formation of a special variety of calculus called u re thro-vesical (Fig. 1320), com- posed of two masses, the one urethral, the other vesical, and united by a prolongation as thick as a large quill and six or eight millimetres in length. The intra-vesical portion is flattened, ovoid, with its long diameter antero-posterior, extending rather below than above the level of the neck of the bladder. Quite often a spontaneous rupture of the prolongation which unites the two portions of the calculus occurs, a rupture which is easily explained by the thinness of the part, and by the shocks communicated to it by contractions of the neck of the bladder and efforts of defecation. Some- times, even, rupture takes place before the prolongation reaches the bladder. Then the two fragments present the exact adjustment and the smooth state of the surfaces which are observed in the penile portion. Symptomatology and Diagnosis.—-The first phenomenon observed at the moment when a calculus enters and is arrested in the urethra, is an abrupt interruption of the stream of urine. In children this accident occurs altogether without warning. In adults, on the contrary, it is habitually preceded by pain in the region of the kidneys and by the expulsion of gravel. Often, also, the calculus does not cause complete retention, but a simple diffi- culty in passing water. The pain is of very variable intensity according to the cases. Almost wanting in the case of a smooth and rounded renal calculus, it may be very acute, and accompanied by hemorrhage from the urethra, if the foreign body is a rough calculus or a calculous fragment. The preceding symptoms point almost surely to the lodgment of a foreign body in the urethra; but it is always necessary to complete the diagnosis by sounding with a metallic instrument. If the calculus be large, it will check the pas- Figr. 1320. Uretliro-vesical calculus, entire and cut. (After Voillemier.)