618 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. tunica vaginalis; injection entered the deposit, showing that it had become vascular. M. Reclus recognizes two kinds of benign fungus of the testicle, the non-parenchymatous and the parenchymatous. Wounds, inflammations, and gangrene of the scrotum are followed by the first variety, in which the tunica albuginea is entire, but exposed and covered with exuberant granula- tions ; and but seldom by the second or parenchymatous fungus of the testicle. Both kinds are met with in syphilis. A gumma forms in the coverings of the testicle, and at length bursts externally, when, through the aperture caused by the loss of substance, the testicle, covered by its tunica albuginea, projects as a hernia, and is covered with granulations forming a fungating mass, which shows no tendency to heal spontaneously. If the gumma be within the gland itself, a mass of caseous material is formed, which even- tually opens on the surface ; exuberant, fungating granulations result, and pro- duce the parenchymatous variety of hernia test is. In tuberculosis the existence of the parenchymatous variety is not clearly demonstrated ; on the contrary, the non-parenchymatous variety is indisputable, and M. Reel us explains its production as follows: A tuberculous abscess forms in the scrotum, one wall resting on the tunica albuginea, which becomes infiltrated with tubercles and covered with fungating granulations. The scrotum, thinned and disorgan- ized, gives way ; the testicle, already surrounded by a granulating membrane, escapes ; and a hernia results. Malignant fungus of the testis, the fungus hcematodes of the old writers, presents itself as a large, irregular, bleeding, soft, and stinking mass, which grows freely and invades the whole of the gland. This stage of the disease is marked by severe stabbing pains, cachexia, and enlargement of the spermatic cord and lumbar glands. Benign fungus pro- trudes through the testicular tunics, which are thickened and form a firm fibrous ring that constricts the swelling, this being of moderate size, firm, and covered with gray or red granulations, which discharge inodorous pus. A deposit forms in the testicle itself, and makes its way to the surface by suppuration and ulceration. The patient’s general health is good, and there is no glandular infection. At the onset the patient suffers pain. A fungus following an ulceration of, or an abscess in, the scrotum, will be of the super- ficial variety. It is prudent, in cases of fungus testis,1 to try the effect of a course of iodide of potassium on the swelling, before proceeding to operation. When the disease is allowed to run its course, the whole of the testicular substance is extruded, and the gland is destroyed. Tuberculous and Scrofulous Disease of Testis. Orchitis occurring in strumous persons has been called strumous or scrofu- lous orchitis, tuberculosis testis, tubercular sarcocele, and phthisis testis. Most writers on the subject seek to discard the term “ tuberculosis testis” as not being strictly accurate. Caseous inflammation is doubtless a serious condi- tion, but not necessarily fatal, as general tuberculosis almost invariably is. Dufour2 looks upon tuberculosis of the testicle as a manifestation of a tuberculous condition of the constitution, and considers the caseous matters in the epididymis to be of a tuberculous nature, and not to result from a simple inflammation. Some pathologists, however, notably those of "V ir- chow’s school, no longer regard the caseous deposits of the epididymis as tuberculous. Rindfleisch3 says that caseous deposits are found in the paren- 1 Gazette Hebdomadaire, 12 Janvier, 1883, p. 17. 8 These Inaugurate, 1854. 8 Op. cit., vol. ii.