INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE URETHRA. 450 pointed at the other, by the pulling practised on the penis by the patient. The walls of the canal slide easily over the foreign body, the point of which is directed toward the meatus; but they drag it back in thqjr retreat by a mechanism absolutely analogous to that which children employ to make heads of grain climb up the sleeves of their clothes. Sometimes another factor is concerned: this is an erection, preceding or immediately following the introduction of the foreign body; as soon as it passes off, the foreign body is found to have been carried more deeply. This tendency of foreign bodies to penetrate further and further is so strong that sometimes it drives them even into the bladder. Symptomatology.—The presence of a foreign body in the urethra causes at once greater or less difficulty in micturition; pain, the degree of which is determined by the nature of the obstacle; and a more or less abundant flow of blood. Inflammatory manifestations soon follow, aggravated by the attempts at extraction made by the patient himself. A discharge from the meatus is set up, at first sero-sanguinolent, and soon purulent; the swollen penis becomes bright red in color, and a high fever is developed. This may give rise to fear of a more or less extensive phlegmon, or even of gangrene of the whole penis; but often a simple urethral abscess is seen to follow, the foreign body escaping either by the meatus or through a perforation of the skin of the penis, or even passing on into the bladder. Sometimes, in spite of a prolonged stay of the foreign body in the urethra, the inflammation declines spontaneously without the occurrence of any of the preceding ter- minations ; but then the object, fixed in the canal, is encrusted with calca- reous matters, and becomes the occasion of a urethral calculus. These secondary accidents are however very rarely observed, for the frightened patients make haste to secure the aid of a surgeon. Treatment.—It is easy to understand that, on account of the infinite variety and diverse location of foreign bodies introduced through the meatus, it must be impossible to lay down general rules for their extraction. If the object has only partly entered the urethra, and if it is still protruding ex- ternally, it will very often be easy to extract it with forceps, or even with the fingers. Certain bodies, however, because of their shape, present special difficulties. Thus it would not be possible to pull upon a head of grain without tearing the walls of the canal. In such a case the head should be tied, at the level of the meatus, with a thread, the two extremities of which are passed through a silver canula, open at both ends ; then, at the same time that the thread is drawn upon with the left hand, the canula is pushed down with the right, so as to disengage the barbs of the head of grain by a manoeuvre identical w ith that devised by Marchettis to extract a hog’s tail which had been introduced into a prostitute’s rectum. If the foreign body be completely hidden, and have passed deep into the urethra, the difficulties are much greater; often, however, when the object is small and rounded, like a cherry-stone, or a glass or metal ball—or even when it is an elongated body, but with a smooth cylindrical surface and a rounded anterior extremity—extraction may be easily accomplished by means of pressure from behind forwards. In case of failure, the forceps of Hunter should be used, or the articulated curette of Leroy d’Etiolles. But these manoeuvres will not succeed in dealing with an object the ends of which are pointed like a needle or a pin. In such a case the following procedure, long since devised by Deschamps, should be emplojmd. This consists in bending the penis, piercing the urethra and the skin with the point of the needle,"and extracting it by this aperture. If the needle has penetrated to the perineal portion, the left index may be introduced into the rectum and made to push it through the integuments, and it may be withdrawn as in the