1166 APPENDIX. cluction and treatment of fractures and dislocations of the bones. They look like the diabolical racks of the inquisition. The surgery of Oribasius is char- acterized by timidity; he only advised an operation in extreme cases, depend- ing chiefly on external remedies. He is noticed in this place, to indicate the state of surgery in the fourth century—the timidity of operators, the absence of original authors, and the reliance on Hippocrates, Galen, and other eminent writers, of a previous age, set forth in compilations, commentaries, and compendiums. We now glide down the stream of time nearly two centuries before we are arrested by another monumental writer. Aetius (A. D. 500-550), a native of Amida, in Mesopotamia, on the banks of the Tigris, was, as he tells us, a pupil of the Alexandrian School of Medicine, from which, in that age, all physicians of note emanated. Aetius became distinguished; he was physician to the court at Constantinople, and captain of the Imperial Guard, bearing the title of “Count of the Palace.” The following, among other reasons, are furnished to show that he was a Christian. He recommends these words to be repeated for the extraction of a bone from the throat: “Bone, as Jesus Christ caused Lazarus to come forth from the sepulchre, as Jonah came out of the whale’s belly, come out of the throat;” or in this form: “Bone, I con- jure you by Blaises, martyr and servant of Jesus Christ, come forth or go down.” His credulity was boundless. Though Apollonius of Tyana, in Cappadocia, in the flrst century, has been claimed as the inventor of magic cures, and the advocate of talismanic influences; yet the first introduction of charms and amulets into strictly medical writings is to be found in the works of Aetius. Aside from all this, he compiled a treatise, much after the manner and style of Oribasius, which is a valuable repository of facts, some of which are not elsewhere found in ancient writings. It is an epitome of the works of most antecedent authors on medicine and surgery. He has the additional merit of having, himself, added to the stock of knowledge then existing. His work is almost wanting in anatomy, and yet it contains a very good description of the female generative organs. It is silent on the subject of fractures and dislocations, which has been construed into an indication that, at that time, the treatment of this class of cases was left to “ natural bone-setters” and ambulatory quacks. His surgical writings, including obstetrics and gynaecology, are not only copious but valuable. They contain many things omitted by Celsus and Galen, as well as not a few that are entirely overlooked by Paul of HUgina, who succeeded him as a compiler, nearly a century later. Aetius recommends scarifications of the legs in anasarca. He attempted to dissolve urinary calculi by the use of internal remedies; he described many affections of the eyes, not mentioned by pre- vious writers ; he differentiated several varieties of hernia, wrote on aneu- rism, on punctured wounds of the nerves, on diseases of the testicles, on castration, on abdominal abscess, on pelvic abscess, on all the malpositions of the uterus, on the use of the vaginal speculum, the uterine sound, sponge tents for the dilatation of the os uteri, the surgical treatment of cancer of the breast, etc. etc. He is the first medical writer who speaks of the dracun- culus, or Guinea-worm. His operation for the cure of aneurism is so interest- ing that I cannot pass it without making some extracts from his account of it. He first speaks of the danger of operating on aneurisms which occur in the neck or head, saying:— For as soon as the aneurism is laid open, so large a quantity of blood and of vital spirit escapes, that the patient frequently dies in the hands of the surgeon. But surgeons treat aneurisms at the bend of the elbow in the following way: The course of the artery, from the armpit down to the elbow, along the inner side of the arm, is