214 URINARY CALCULUS. periods of exacerbation of cystitis which usually accompany stone is not a favorable one for operation, yet either lithotomy or litholapaxy may be per- formed during its existence, with the happiest result. A rule of old-fashioned lithotrity proves this, for when a given sitting was followed by severe acute cy^stitis, it was considered good practice to perform lithotomy at once, and thus relieve the bladder of its torment. Litholapaxy has in view the avoidance of cystitis by attempting to clear the bladder of all fragments at a single sitting; but some years before litho- lapaxy was invented, Thompson declared that the acute cystitis following a sitting of lithotrity was one of its chief dangers, and proposed, and success- fully practised as a cure for acute cystitis complicating lithotrity, a new, long sitting under ether, in which an attempt was made to rid the bladder of all foreign matter. This expedient, although not identical with lithotomy for the same complication, was equivalent in its object and in its effect. Chronic cystitis of high grade and unusual severity clearly calls for lith- otomy-—lateral lithotomy—that the bladder may be thoroughly drained and left at rest after the operation. Cystotomy under such circumstances deals with two maladies at once, and the greater risk of lithotomy is more than compensated by the prospect of curing the cystitis, while the danger of acutely aggravating the severe chronic cystitis by the necessarily harsh ma- noeuvres of litholapaxy, makes the latter operation a second choice. In like manner, if a tumor of the bladder complicates stone, lithotomy is called for, that both maladies may be treated at once. Benign tumors of the prostate belong to the same category ; but only when they interfere with the passage of the urine, and are not complicated by atony of the bladder. Bor if there is atony of the bladder, and the patient is obliged to use a catheter habitually, he gains nothing by cystotomy, and incurs a greater risk to be rid of his stone by reason of the greater gravity of lithotomy in advanced age as compared with lithotrity. When, on the other hand, the expulsive power of the bladder is strong, notwithstanding the prostatic ob- struction, then cystotomy is preferable, for the interstitial prostatic tumor may be taken out at the time of the operation; or the outstanding prostatic growth (third lobe or lateral overgrowth) may be cut or twisted away, thus- restoring to the patient the lost function of urination. I have operated upon one such patient, who, before the operation, had not urinated for four years, except through a catheter. After the operation the flow occurred naturally. In another case I had a similar, though less brilliant, result. When the pros- tate is very long and rigid, and the lithotrite and tube pass with considerable difficulty, the risk of damaging the deep urethra may occasionally be so great as to justify a choice of lithotomy. As far as the urethra is concerned, most obstacles to the free passage of large instruments may be overcome by preparatory treatment, or as a part of the final operation; but serious organic stricture of the deep urethra is a complication which justifies lithotomy—preferably the median or the medio- lateral operation—that the stricture may be dealt with by perineal section as a first step in the lithotomy operation. Dolbeau’s perineal lithotrity is also applicable to these cases. II. Peculiarities op the Stone as influencing a Choice op Operation por radical Cure.—The stone itself influences the choice of operation only by its size or by its position in the bladder. A very small stone, but one too large to be washed out through a tube with the washing bottle, is suitable for old-fashioned lithotrity, without ether. The number of stones does not influence the choice of operation in any way : it simplifies rapid lithotrity, and very much lessens the danger of lithotomy, relatively to the total size