DEFORMITIES OF LOWER EXTREMITY FROM MUSCULAR CONTRACTION. 1053 Deformities of the Lower Extremity from Muscular Contraction. The numerous conditions of non-congenital deformity of the foot which result from nerve-lesion and muscular disturbance, are often accompanied by contraction of the leg and thigh, arising from the same exciting causes. In the case of paralytic talipes, the leg is not uncommonly flexed upon the thigh, owing to the extensor muscles having lost their contractile power, and having been overpowered by the action of the flexors; the biceps is especially powerful in producing this condition of flexion at the knee-joint, and in many cases this muscle also rotates the leg outwards, and everts it, thus inducing a condition of genu valgum. Flexion of the thigh upon the pelvis is caused by the unbalanced action of the psoas and iliacus muscles; the limb is also ad- ducted by the contraction of the inner muscles, and the tensor vaginae femoris and sartorius muscles are frequently shortened. This state of deformity may be present in both lower extremities, in which case the subject is either entirely deprived of all power of progression, or is only able to crawl about on his hands and knees. In the treatment of these cases the several conditions of deformity must be taken in separate stages: first, the deformity of the foot is reduced; next, the displacement of the leg upon the thigh; and finally, the contraction of the thigh on the pelvis. The modes of reducing the various conditions of paralytic deformity of the foot have already been described; the relief of the contraction of the leg is obtained by following similar principles of treatment. When the deformity is of recent origin, physiological and instrumental measures will usually suffice to restore the normal condition of the limb; galvanism, with rubbing and shampooing of the weakened parts, and manipulations to stretch the shortened muscles, constitute the physio- logical methods that may be employed; for the instrumental treatment, an appliance consisting of thigh and leg pieces connected by a cog-wheel at the knee-joint, and with straps for fastening the limb, is required, so that the leg may gradually be extended to its proper position. In more severe cases of long standing, in which structural shortening of the flexor muscles has become established, tenotomy must be had recourse to as the only method of reducing the deformity ; division of the hamstring tendons is easily accomplished, as they stand out very prominently, and are easily felt under the surface of the skin. The tendons of the semi-tendinosus and semi-membranosus muscles should be cut by passing a sharp-pointed tenotome under them, entering on their inner side, and dividing from below upwards, towards the surface; the biceps tendon is divided in a similar manner, but care must be taken not to include the external popliteal nerve in the sec- tion. Some contracted bands of fascia are often present on the side of the joint, in which case they also must be cut through. The wounds are treated just as those of tenotomy for club-foot, and the limb is kept quiet for a few days by bandaging it to a splint extending up the thigh and down the leg. Instru- mental treatment may be commenced on the fourth or fifth day, extension of the leg being then carried on steadily until the full movement of the joint is restored. Contraction of the thigh upon the pelvis nearly always requires the employment of tenotomy, the muscles most affected being the tensor vaginae femoris, the sartorius, the adductor longus, and the adductor magnus. No special directions are required for these little operations ; the tendons of the two first-mentioned muscles maybe divided just below the-anterior supe- rior spinous process, those of the adductors where they can most readily be felt at the inner and upper part of the thigh. The replacement of the thigh is not always accomplished very easily, even when tenotomy has been freely had recourse to; the difficulty arises from the pelvis not affording a good