URINARY CALCULUS. 176 A brilliant innovation of modern surgery is nephrolithotomy for calculous anuria. Dr. Thelen,1 of Cologne, has described a successful case, Barden- lieuer being the operator. Czerny first suggested the performance of nephro- lithotomy. II. Morris2 first performed it, but not for obstruction ; his case was one of kidney stone without suppression.3 In Thelen’s case the patient had bad left suppurative pyelitis and perinephric abscess. Through an in- cision made into this abscess the kidney was felt to be entirely atrophied. Suddenly, during convalescence, complete suppression came on. Bardenheuer thereupon exposed the other ureter in the flank, found in it a calculus as large as a bean, firmly impacted, liberated the calculus by a longitudinal inci- sion, and sewed up the ureter. After temporary relief, a severe chill and high temperature caused Bardenheuer to reopen the wound, cut the ureter, and bring out its proximal end into the wound. A month afterwards the patient was doing well, urinating through the wound. Sometimes a stone, reaching the vesical orifice of a ureter but not entirely obstructing it, will grow by phosphatic accretion, and finally find its way into the bladder by ulceration, or it may prolong itself into the bladder. Sometimes a vesical stone grows into the ureter. Prostatic Stone. Two forms of concretion may be encountered in the prostate and its sinus, the true prostatic concretion, and urinary calculus. The former will receive consideration in another article.4 Primary urinary calculus does not form in the prostate. An acid nucleus or fragment may lodge in the sinus, and for a time increase as an acid stone. But sometimes nuclei detained in the prostate grow by the addition of layers mainly composed of phosphate of lime—in this way coming to resemble true prostatic concretions. There are five methods by which urinary calculus may form in the prostate. 1. A nucleus from the kidney may become arrested there and grow. Ebel5 relates the ease of a boy who, at the age of three, commenced to suffer from urinary discomfort and occasional attacks of retention. This persisted for six years, until a bean-sized stone was removed from the prostatic sinus by a cutting operation. 2. A fragment after lithotrity may behave in a similar manner. 8. A true prostatic concretion, reaching a certain size, may ulcerate its way into the prostatic sinus and continue to grow, a pure phosphate-of-lime prostatic calculus, as in Mastin’s6 case. Or it may receive accretions of uri- nary salts and grow backward into the bladder, reaching considerable dimen- sions—prostatico-vesical calculus. 4. A vesical calculus may send a prolongation forward into the prostate, vesico-prostatic calculus. 5. An abscess in the prostate may leave a pouch in which urine accumulates, decomposes, and gives rise to a calculus. The same thing may happen in the fistulous tracts left by burrowing abscesses, and after lithotomy. Stones in this region attain great size, and may ulcerate their way out- wards into the scrotum, perineum, or rectum. A large phosphatic calculus 1 Centralblatt f. Chir., 25 Marz, 1882, S. 185. 2 Lancet, Oct. 30, 1880, p. 698. 8 Up to May 23, 1884, eight cases of pure nephrolithotomy, all told, had been performed with- out one death. (Lancet, May 31, 1884, p. 983.) 4 See article on Injuries and Diseases of the Bladder and Prostate, infra. 5 Mag. f. d. ges. Heilk., Bd. xlviii. S. 271. 1837. 6 Medical News, August 16, 1884, p. 175.