FOREIGN BODIES IN THE URETHRA. 447 1 See p. 392, supra. by the meatus, infiltrates widely through the perforation of the urethra made by the calculus, and thus sets up the gravest disorders. Foreign Bodies formed in Situ.—I will simply mention here concretions developed in the body of the prostate, the study of which belongs to that of this gland itself; they have been considered in another portion of this volume.1 I shall place in this second class only calculi found behind a stricture, in a urinary pocket, in the focus of an old urinary abscess, or in a simple sinus due to stagnation of urine and precipitation of the salts which it holds in solution. In this category may be included also stones which develop in an abnormal cavity communicating with the urethra, to which Louis first called attention. The chemical composition of these calculi may serve to distin- guish them from those which come from the bladder. Whilst the latter have a uric-acid or oxalic-acid nucleus surrounded by a variable number of perfectly distinct phosphatic layers, calculi formed in the urethra are made up entirely of phosphate of lime (Fig. 1321), in scarcely appreciable concentric Fig. 1321. Urethral calculus of phosphate of lime, natural size. layers, or with these entirely wanting and with a uniform agglomeration of their constituents. The symptomatology of these calculi is perfectly analogous to that of cal- culi which come from the bladder; with this difference, however, that those of the second class, because of their situation in a cavity which lies near to the integument, interfere less with the flow of urine, and have a greater ten- dency to make their way out rapidly through the skin. Treatment.—-There are three methods of treatment for calculi lodged in the urethra, applicable to the two varieties which we have just studied, but having each its special indications: extraction through the meatus, jjropulsion into the bladder, and extraction by an artificial opening. (1) Extraction by the meatus is easy when the calculus is situated near the extremity of the penis. The calculus is seized with forceps, after slightly enlarging the meatus, if necessary. When the calculus is more deeply placed, it is necessary to employ other manoeuvres, and especially other instruments. At first an attempt may be made to displace the calculus with a stylet, then, after having pinched the meatus between the fingers, the patient is to be made to urinate and induced to strain with all his might. dSTot infrequently then the calculus, if it be not very voluminous, will escape of itself. It is possible, again, to secure this result bypassing a large, flexible catheter down to the seat of the foreign body, leaving it in position for several hours, and removing it when the patient wants to urinate. If these simple measures do not succeed, it becomes necessary to make use of special instruments, either an ordinary curette, or, better, the articulated curette of Leroy d’Etiolles. This instrument (Fig. 1322) is composed of a flattened metallic canula, carrying