INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. 600 syphilitic sarcocele, and when new growths displace the secreting structure. The false membranes so frequently found after inflammation of the tunica vaginalis are, according to M. Gfosselin, very vascular, and flourish at the expense of the blood-supply of the testicle. Affections of the Yas Deferens, Yesicule Seminalis, and Ejaculatory Duct. Affections of the Yas Deferens.—Mr. John Birkett, in his article on injuries of the pelvis in Mr. Holmes’s System of Surgery,l quotes three cases of rupture of the vas deferens which occurred in the practice of the late Mr. Hilton, who considered that the duct was ruptured between the internal ring and the point where it crossed the ureter. Blood flowing from the artery of the part, finds its way along the vas deferens to the prostatic urethra. A ■catheter when passed into the bladder draws off clear urine, although there is bleeding from the canal. Mr. Hilton made a post-mortem examination in a case where there was rupture of the vas deferens at the point above mentioned, and atrophy of the testicle. Both ends of the vas deferens were separated and closed. The symptoms of the accident are said by Mr. Hilton to be sudden and violent pain, after severe exertion or a blow, and flow of arterial blood from the urethra, the urine when drawn off from the bladder being clear. There are at first swelling and tenderness of the testicles, which may eventually atrophy. There are also tenderness of the lower part of the abdomen, and pyrexia. The treatment is the same as for contusion of the testicle and for orchitis, viz., rest in bed, support of the testicles by a pillow, leeches, fomentations, and aperients. In cases of division of the vas deferens by & wound, the surgeon should bring the ends of the injured duct together with fine catgut sutures. Neu- ralgia of the testicle has been so severe after a rupture of the vas deferens that castration has been resorted to.2 Abscesses but rarely form in the vas deferens. A patient under Mr. Hutchinson’s care was attacked, after lithotrity, by double orchitis, with a collection of stinking pus in the tunica vaginalis on both sides. A suc- cession of abscesses, which no doubt originated in the inflamed vasa deferentia, formed in the abdominal wall in each iliac region, beginning with deep-seated pain, swelling, and induration, and were evacuated by deep incisions. The symptoms, which were severe, and, like those of pyaemia, subsided after the removal, by lateral lithotomy, of a sharp fragment of stone, which was impacted in the prostatic urethra.3 Inflammation of a vesicula seminalis may sometimes follow urethral irri- tation, such as that caused by stricture. Micturition is frequent and painful, and semen may be discharged with the urine, and occasionally with a motion. The vesicula seminalis is tender on pressure through the rectum, and pain is felt on both sides at the fundus of the bladder, on making deep pressure on the abdominal walls. A young man under Mr. Mitchell Henry’s care4 suffered from pain in the loins and hip-joint. He walked like a person suffering from morbus coxarius ; but the hip-joint was sound. The urine, which caused a burning pain when passed, contained pus, and eventually blood. He suffered from very severe constitutional disturbance, with a tender and tympanitic abdomen. A post-mortem examination showed that the left vesi- i Op. cit., 2d ed., vol. ii. p. 739. 2 P H Watson, Edinburgh Med. Journ.,1866. 3 Medical Times and Gazette, vol. i. p. 420 1871. * Medico-Chir. Trans., vol. xxxiii. p. 233.