947 OSTEOMALACIA AND ERAGILITAS OSSIUM. 2 Op. cit. 1 See page 949, infra. with a few exceptions, deformities are the rule. They result from two causes: flexibility of the bones and their fracture. The direction of the bone is changed because it bends, or because it breaks. I have already said that we usually find in the same patient bones which are bent, and bones which are broken. The deformities do not always appear in the same parts of the skeleton. Kilian has given as pathognomonic the onset in the pelvis. It has been objected to him that the lower limbs are first and most affected, as in rachitis. These contradictions disappear if, after the example of Volk- mann, we distinguish two categories of osteomalacia, one ;puerperal, the other non-puerperal. In the first the attack begins in the pelvis, in the second in the limbs. The fact that the lower limbs are first affected does not always justify the assertion, in an absolute way, that the disease has begun in them. Deformities appear more readily in the lower limbs, because the erect attitude and walking impose greater efforts upon them than the upper limbs habitually put forth. Usually the upper limbs do not become de- formed until the patient (whom pain, and the difficulty or impossibility of loco- motion have for a long time interdicted from all laborious work) is confined to bed. In turning, he breaks his ribs or his clavicles ; in raising himself on his arms, he breaks his humerus. Still, there are cases in which the first de- formities from fracture have taken place in the clavicles. (Mondan.) I have no difficulty, however, in admitting that the disease seems ordi- narily to begin in the lower limbs, in the non-puerperal forms. Perhaps, indeed, this beginning is real; the greater vascularity, the greater stasis of blood in the lower limbs, and their usually greater work, might account for this priority. But the bones in osteomalacia are not deformed by bendings and fractures alone; they are deformed also by shortening upon them- selves. When the long bones are completely softened, retaining only thin bony plates in the epiphyses or diaphyses, and resembling fibrous cylinders, the tonicity of the muscles alone may suffice to shorten the limbs by drawing the ends of the bones together, which in this way close up upon themselves like Venetian lanterns. This drawing up in the longitudinal axis, aided by flexions and fractures—which may also be produced by mus- cular action alone, without the assistance of the weight of the body or of any external violence—is accompanied by an increase in size, more apparent than real, in the transverse direction; an increase which may be made to disappear altogether by drawing upon the two ends of the bone, when its normal length will be restored. Very often there is a diminution, both apparent and real, in the size of the long bones as well as in that of the short bones. As an example of the latter, see the osteomalacic pelvis represented in Fig. 1454.1 Before passing the deformities in review, region by region, I ought to say yet a word about thefractures. They are complete or incomplete ; much oftener incomplete than fractures in healthy bones. They are distinguished from the latter by the absence of laceration in the periosteum, which depends less upon the thickness of this membrane than upon the slight degree of consist- ence of the bone, and especially upon the moderate cause which produces them. In the flat bones fractures do not involve the whole thickness of the part, and there is no displacement. The number of fractures or bends which may be met with in an osteomalacic skeleton is unlimited. M. Buisson has counted seventy-six fractures in one patient, and even more may be found ;2 M. Buisson says that the seventy-six fractures were all more or less consoli- dated by callus or by osteophytes. This leads me to speak of the consolida- tion of these fractures. Usually at the autopsy there is seen at their seat no reparative effort beside thickening of the periosteum, formation of fibro-