573 HYDROCELE. tide is felt in its normal situation, and the scrotum is not distended. This condition is to be diagnosed from hernia, all the symptoms of which, viz., impulse on coughing, disappearance of the swelling on lying down, the possi- bility of pushing up the hernia and the sensation communicated to the lingers as it slips back, the ability to feel the cord and to pass the finger into the inguinal canal and to feel its boundaries, are to be sought for. In cases of diffused hydrocele the cord is obscured, there is fluctuation, and a sensation as if a piece of omentum were present. An antiseptic incision, which is harmless, is the best way to clear up the diagnosis and to treat the case. Encysted hydrocele of the cord occurs sufficiently often to make its diagnosis and treatment of great consequence and interest to the surgeon. The swelling is oval and about the size of a marble, and feels very hard; it is evidently situated in the cord, the normal testicle being readily felt below, quite free from the cyst, and it being possible, as a rule, to pass the fingers above the cyst, between it and the abdominal ring, and to feel the cord of its normal size. If the cyst is in the upper part of the cord, it can be pushed into the abdomen, but returns as soon as the finger is removed—not gradually, as a hernia does, but suddenly shooting past the finger; when reduced it may be discovered tucked behind the abdominal wall by keeping a finger of one hand in the inguinal canal and feeling with the other hand on the surface of the abdomen. A youth presented himself at King’s College Hospital with a swelling the size of a walnut, just above the right testicle. The swelling had a distinct impulse when the boy coughed, disappeared when he was in bed, and was readily reduced into the abdo- men, but could not be felt tucked behind the abdominal walls. It was, however, trans- lucent and elastic, being too tense to give a characteristic sense of fluctuation; it could not be diminished in size by pressure, the cord could be felt above, and the testicle, free below, was not dragged upon when the swelling was reduced. The external ring was but slightly enlarged. The case was operated on by dissection, and an encysted hydro- cele, connected with the cord, was removed. It had a longish pedicle, which so loosely attached it to the cord that it readily passed through the inguinal canal to a space in the fascia transversalis under the peritoneum, where it rested out of harm’s way and beyond the reach of the surgeon’s finger. A young lad came to King’s College Hospital with an encysted hydrocele of the right cord. Mr. Wood tapped it and injected some diluted tincture of iodine ; as, how- ever, the injection failed to cure, he dissected the small cyst out entire, doing the opera- tion with Listerian precautions. The cyst looked like a small transparent bag filled with a golden fluid; its neck was long and about the size of a small probe. If this cyst had any communication with the funicular process, which is doubtful, it must have been very small. In these cases, owing to a mistaken diagnosis, the patient often wears a truss. These cysts are formed in unobliterated portions of the inguinal pro- cess ot the tunica vaginalis, and contain pale or straw-colored serum which is destitute of spermatozoa, unlike that from cysts found in relation with the epididymis. M. Giraldes has put forward the hypothesis that encysted hydrocele of the cord may be due to the dilatation of the cue cal tubes (corps innomini) which he says remain after the disappearance of the Wolffian body. Treatment.—These cysts often subside, or remain stationary for years. They may be painted with the tincture of iodine, or acupuncture may be practised. It these methods fail, they should be injected with iodine, or incised antiseptically in the manner already described, or they may be dis- sected out. These cysts are more difficult to cure than hydroceles generally are, as their walls do not inflame and adhere as readily as serous membranes.