924 SCROFULO-TUBERCULOUS AND OTHER STRUCTURAL DISEASES OF BONES. Caries has an indefinitely progressive course, if it be let alone. Neverthe- less, in children, caries may be spontaneously cured after elimination of the sequestra and transformation of the fungosities, under the influence of a better alimentation. M. Ollier speaks of the possibility of the recovery of caries by the absorption of the neerobiotic and even purulent products, especially in young patients. Volkmann has described, under the name of dry caries, a hone lesion which he has seen in the Hat bones and also in the long bones, especially at the upper end of the humerus. It leads to perforation of the flat bones; and when it is seated in the diaphyses of the long bones it may bring about a true solution of continuity of the bone, a spontaneous pseudarthrosis. “Instead of the luxuriant tissue, of deep red, or oedematous and quivering granula- tions, which is ordinarily seen, and which leads to destruction of the subjacent bones, there is found a moderately thick layer of a tissue which is very deficient in vessels and almost cartilaginous, and which adheres closely to the bone-tissue. What is especially characteristic of dry caries, is that at a very early period the articular cavity is oblite- rated by the limited and dry granulation-tissue which, starting from the synovial membrane, extends between the bony surfaces and causes them to adhere together. The process is essentially local; there is absolutely no lardaceous thickening or produc- tion of osteophytes. Atrophy of the bone and deformity of the joint are the true ■characteristics of this affection. There is ordinarily neither suppuration nor fever; spontaneous pain is also rare. The general health remains excellent.”1 I do not. know what to think of this caries which reveals itself neither by pain nor by abscesses. I should not be surprised if histology should some day place it among tuberculous affections. It may be a sort of indolent tuber- culosis tending to sclerosis of the vegetations without provoking suppuration. Its parasite is perhaps not the same, or it may be found in peculiar conditions. M. Ollier, who has seen some cases of this kind, expresses himself in regard to them in the following manner, in his article on caries: “But these lesions do not appear to me to be caries; this is a variety of osteitis which I desig- nate by the name of atrophic rarefying osteitis. . . .” The clinical picture of spina ventosa is too well known for me to dwell on it. at length. M. Goetz distinguishes two stages: that of simple swelling, and that of ulceration. In the first stage, the finger, for example, increases in size, assumes a shape which has been compared to that of a flask, a rad- ish, a spindle, etc. In the second stage, the skin, which was previously healthy, changes color, becomes tense, red, or purple; then, on the dorsal sur- face or on the sides of the finger, more rarely on the palmar surface, one or more points soften, give fluctuation, and ulcerate. Sanious pus flows out from the openings, which remain fistulous. When the probe is introduced into these openings, it comes down on the surface of denuded bone, if the abscess has been periosteal; or enters the enlarged medullary canal, if the abscess has started there, or in this and the inflamed periosteum at the same time. The base and edges of the openings are fungous and bleed easily, espe- cially in the second case, which is the most common. Usually the joints are so free from trouble that the children continue to move their fingers. It. is well known that portions of the phalanges, and even the whole diaphysis of a phalanx or of one of the metacarpal bones, may become necrosed. The probe will indicate the presence of these sequestra. I have already explained the mechanism of these forms of necrosis. Spina ventosa without necrosis may recover spontaneously in the first stage. Little by little the sub-periosteal deposits of bone are absorbed, 1 Volkmann, Ueber die Caries sicca des Schultergelenkes. (Berliner klin. Wochenschrift, 1867.)