INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE URETHRA. 482 the urethra, the walls of which have preserved, in the first case, their supple- ness and their normal dilatability, whilst in the other case they have become hard, friable, and inextensible. Symptomatology.—Urinary pouches present themselves in the shape of ovoid or elongated tumors, seated upon the urethra, without change of color- ation of the skin, soft, painless, capable of being completely emptied and of passing unperceived, but reappearing at the moment of micturition to become then hard, tense, resistant, and fluctuating. The patient, who soon recog- nizes the nature of his lesion, attempts to empty the pouch by holding his penis in the left hand, whilst with the right he exercises pressure on the tumor, directed from behind forwards. But the pouch is never completely emptied; there remains in it a small quantity of urine, which afterwards flows out, soiling the clothing. A phenomenon of the same order is produced in coitus. The spermatic fluid, instead of being projected outside, falls into the pouch, and escapes only with difficulty at the end of a longer or shorter time. The treatment of these cases ought to be directed exclusively to the obstruc- tion which is opposed to the emission of urine. If there be a calculus, ex- traction, carried out by any of the methods which I have mentioned, will generally be followed by a rapid and complete contraction of the urinary pouch. It is different in the case of a stricture. After the cure of the latter, the contraction of the pouch takes place only with extreme slowness, because of the density and induration of its walls. (2) Urinary Pouches from Perforation of the Urethra.—Urinary pouches be- longing to this second variety are not limited by the wall of the urethra, but rather by the indurated and thickened peri-urethral cellular tissue. They follow collections of blood or pus, at first situated outside of the canal, and then communicating with it by openings of variable dimensions, through which urine escapes, fills the spaces, and transforms them into urinary pouches. The symptomatology of these tumors differs very little from that of the preceding variety; there are the same shape, the same painlessness, the same situation in the median line, the same adherence to the urethra, and the same facility of being incompletely emptied and of filling up at the moment of micturition. They are, however, distinguished by the following peculiarity: whilst urinary pouches from dilatation of the urethra contain at every period of their development absolutely normal urine, this is always mixed with a certain quantity of pus in cases in which the urinary pouch has followed an abscess or a blood-tumor. Treatment.—When the pouch is small, it suffices to keep in the urethra a catheter of moderate calibre, and at the same time to exercise light compres- sion on the perineum. When, on the contrary, the pouch is large, the pro- longed presence of urine almost inevitably brings about the formation of an abscess which opens of itself at the surface of the skin, but which it is much better to incise promptly, introducing a catheter to prevent the establish- ment of a fistula. Urinary Abscesses.—Urinary abscesses are purulent collections resulting from the passage of urine through narrow perforations of the urethra. The urine penetrating but slowly into the meshes of the peri-urethral cellular tissue, sets up around the points which it occupies an adhesive inflammation, which limits the infiltration; but soon playing the part of a very irritating foreign body, it provokes suppuration, and often even gangrene of the tissues with which it is in direct contact. Thus are formed the purulent collections which we are about to study, and of which it is well to admit two varieties, one acute, the other chronic.