VICES OF CONFORMATION OF THE URETHRA. 485 The best means of remedying congenital atresia of the meatus consists in enlargement of the orifice, practised by means of a cutting instrument, and followed by the introduction for several days, and to a slight depth, of a large bougie, in order to force the lips of the wound to cicatrize separately. [Another plan, known as Weber’s, consists in dissecting a strip of skin from around the orifice, and then splitting and everting the mucous membrane, which is finally attached to the skin by several points of suture.] Occlusions of the Urethra.—These occlusions, which result from gluing together of the two corresponding halves of the penis, may occupy any point in the canal, but the meatus urinarius is their seat of election. Sometimes the mucous membrane of the* glans is seen to pass in front of the meatus, without anything being seen at this point which could indicate the existence of an orifice. In a case of this sort, observed by Voillemier, the mucous membrane was so delicate that it protruded at every effort of the child to urinate, and seemed ready to burst. Most frequently the meatus is well formed, and ends in a cul-de-sac at a distance of a few millimetres. We have only a very small number of examples of occlusion situated at other points of the canal; I will cite a very interesting case of this sort reported by Gour- don,1 in which there existed a double occlusion, one at the level of the meatus, the other in the neighborhood of the neck. The diagnosis is especially easy when the occlusion is in the meatus or in the fossa navicular is. Deeper occlusions may escape the first examination, but the ineffectual efforts of the infant to urinate, and sounding with a curved stylet or a very small catheter, will usually render error impossible. The treatment consists, for occlusions of the meatus, in simple puncture practised with a bistoury or a lancet. For deep occlusions, forced catheter- ization has usually furnished excellent results, this depending upon the fact that in general the occlusion is only of slight extent. Complete obliterations of the urethra are the result of fusion of its walls, and of their transformation into a fibrous cord. This vice of conformation, happily quite rare, is usually complicated with other anomalies which are beyond the resources of art, such as imperforate rectum, or communication of that organ with the bladder. Congenital Urinary Pouches.—This vice of conformation, described like- wise under the name of congenital dilatation of the urethra, is of extreme rarity. Guyon, in his thesis,2 reports only two observations of it, one by Dr. Angers, and the other by Ilendriksz, of Amsterdam. The first case (Fig. 1337) was that of a child of three years, poorly developed, which had beneath the penis a cutaneous appendage, thick, irregular, four and a half centimetres in circumference, and formed by a pouch which, in the empty state, was flattened laterally and had a number of vertical folds. The penis, of normal size, presented in the direction of its length a very marked concavity of its dorsal aspect, The meatus urinarius was well formed. A stylet introduced into the urethra, fol- lowing the upper wall of this canal, passed easily into the bladder, whilst with the same instrument curved and following the lower wall, quite a large cavity correspond- ing to the pouch was penetrated. At the moment of micturition, this pouch swelled up little by little and acquired the dimensions of a hen’s egg. Its walls were then smooth and transparent. The urine, on leaving the bladder, first filled the pouch and then escaped normally by the meatus. When micturition was ended, the pouch remained full, and was emptied only by pressure. 1 Journal des Connaissances Mddicales, 1834. 2 Des Vices de Conformation de l’Urethre, Th5se d’Agregation, 1863.