APPENDIX. 1090 A. D. 491, and at a later period such hospitals were established by the Saracens. The first institution for clinical instruction was probably that connected with the celebrated medical school at Edessa, in Mesopotamia, founded in the fifth century by the Uestorians, who went there to escape the persecutions of the church at Rome, and were afterward scattered into Persia and Arabia. From them, and from the Athenian philosophers exiled by Justinian, the Arabs received the first elements of a science which they afterwards restored ; and they, in Spain, first established hospitals like our modern institutions, in the eighth and ninth centuries, notably the one at Cordova with its famous school of medicine. The real origin of our present hospitals is to be found in the monastic establishments of the Middle Ages, each of which had its infirmary, which afterwards was placed in a separate building constructed for the purpose. The Hotel Dieu, in Paris, dates from the beginning of the ninth century. In England, the earliest distinct record is of two hospitals founded in 1080, by the Archbishop of Canterbury, and during the next two centuries some of the most noted establishments for the sick in England were established. Great abuses grew up in the monastic institutions: they were converted into bene- fices by the clergy, benefactions were misapplied, the welfare of the sick became of secondary importance, and the hospitals were badly managed and terribly unhealthy. It was not till after the Reformation that the way was opened for the founding of private and public charities for the sole benefit of the sick poor, and it was nearly two hundred years later, and after the beginning of the eighteenth century, that hospital construction received the great impetus which has developed the present system of treating the sick in such institutions. Many noted hospitals were built in England in that cen- tury, and the movement spread to the rest of Europe. The influence of the monastic age still held sway in the forms of these buildings, which were usually large, many storied, and badly arranged; and the sick were aggre- gated in them in a most unhealthful way. In America, a strict quarantine was established in Boston Harbor as early as 1647, against “ ye plague or like infectious disease” then raging in the West India Islands, and in 1717 a quarantine hospital was built, and has been maintained ever since on some one of the islands of the harbor, some- times being used for infectious diseases. Epidemics of smallpox were very disastrous in the colonies. Variolous inoculation was introduced into Ame- rica in 1721, in Boston, and the first public hospitals for smallpox were established there in 1764, in military barracks or like buildings constructed for the purpose. Soon after this it became the custom throughout the colonies to appoint secluded houses as temporary pest-houses for inoculating and treating the disease. The first hospital on Manhattan Island was built by the Hutch, early in the seventeenth century, with a capacity “ of five housesbut the first of the existing general hospitals founded in America, was the Pennsylvania Hospital, founded in 1751, though its new building, a part of the present hospital, was not opened till 1756. The insane were also treated there until a special department was built for the purpose in West Philadelphia, in 1841, and its massive linear plan of corridor wards became, with some modifications, the model for many large hospitals for the insane, in all parts of the country, built previous to 1880. The Hew York Hospital, chartered by George III. in 1771, was burned as soon as completed, and after being rebuilt received its first patients in 1791. The insane were also treated in the original building here, until 1808, when an annex, called the “Lunatic Asylum,” was added, the first establishment in the United States wholly for the care of the insane, except the one at Williamsburg, Va., opened in 1773, which was the very earliest. The department for the insane