GASTRO-HYSTEROTOMY, OR LAPARO-HYSTEROTOMY. 769 forty hours. The woman was a sextipara 41 years of age, whose pelvis was blocked by a fibro-myoma which grew from the posterior wall of the cervix, and whose puerperal condition was also complicated by the existence of cystitis and suppurative pyelo- nephritis. She had been in labor some eight or ten hours prior to the operation, and before its conclusion showed symptoms of collapse. An autopsy revealed hypostatic pneumonia of the middle and lower lobes of the right lung; cedema of both lungs; excessive pyelo-nephritis, with destruction of a great part of both kidneys; incipient peritonitis ; and an intra-mural fibroma, as large as a foetal head, growing from the posterior cervical parietes and fixed in the Douglas space by old adhesions. The operation was performed on September 11, 1882 ;l the child was living. It is not at all necessary to pare away portions of the uterine wall in order to turn in the peritoneum, as the reduced size of the uterus renders this layer sufficiently loose to be drawn over the edge of the wound by a proper stitch, such as that of (rely would be, if taken transversely on either side and then tied across. Dr. Leopold said before the International Medical Congress at Copenhagen, that he would in the future avoid the removal of muscular tissue as not essential to success.2 In three fatal cases in this country—fatal because of the condition of the women before the operation—in which multiple sutures, deep-seated and superficial, were used, and in which the peritoneum was drawn over the muscular edges of the uterine wound, the peritoneum was found to have fully united, and in one of them within twenty-six hours after the operation, as the result of a local peritonitis along the line of sutures. The Ctesarean operation has per se a certain measure of fatality, which varies very much in different countries, and in different localities in the same country. It has a moderate fatality in the United States, except in hospitalsand large cities; a very high one in Norway, Sweden, Denmark, and Great Britain; and it has been almost universally fatal in the large maternities of Paris, Milan, Naples, and Vienna. It has had again a moderate fatality in parts of Bel- gium, France, and Germany, among the peasantry. In the United States, where death or recovery largely depends upon the early management of a case, there is a vast addition to The fatal results through ignorance and sense- less delay. The large proportion of deaths in the children shows a want of proper management of the cases prior to the operation. Recently, in a case where the true conjugate diameter measured hut one and a half inches, one leg of the foetus had been brought down and wedged into the superior strait.3 Ignorance on the part of accoucheurs and midwives is shown all through our record, and particularly on the part of the former, who have done.much to increase the difficulties of the cases. In another instance, a young accoucheur mistook the promontory of the sacrum for the foetal head, 1 Loc. cit., Bd. xx. Heft 3, S. 409-424. s Since the above statement was made, Dr. Leopold has twice operated without resection of the muscular coat of the uterus. The first of these operations (his fourth) was performed on Nov. 28, 1884, upon a rachitic secundipara, after 22 hours’ labor, when feverish and having a pulse of 12o! The serous membrane was separated and turned in, and the wound closed with deep silver and deep and superficial silk sutures. The woman died on the fifth day of septic peritonitis. His fifth operation was performed on Dec. 5, 1884, the patient being » primipara of 23, in labor 16 hours, and in a favorable condition ; she had likewise a deformed pelvis. The uterine wound was managed without resecting the muscular coat, or peeling-up the serous one, the latter being simply drawn and turned in, as in the Garrigues and other American cases. There were used 6 deep-seated silver and 6 deep-seated silk sutures, with 10 superficial ones of silk. Both woman and child were saved. . Sanger’s method, with resection, has been performed six times in Germany, and without resec- tion twice, saving 6 women and 8 children. It has been performed once in Vienna by Dr. Eliren- dorfer, upon an unfavorable case after a labor of two days. The woman died on the sixth day of “ sanio-purulent peritonitis the child was saved. (Neue Beitrage zur Kaiserschnittsfrage, von Dr. M. Sanger.' Leipzig, 1885.) 3 Med. News, p. 256. 1885. VOL. VI.—49