9G0 SCROFULO-TUBERCULOUS AND OTHER STRUCTURAL DISEASES OF BONES. This hypothesis lias received considerable support from experimentation. Heitzmann has made herbivorous and carnivorous animals ingest lactic acid. The following are his conclusions : “ The result of my experiments on the con- tinued administration of lactic acid, is that, in carnivora, there are artifi- cially produced, at tirst, rachitis, and afterwards osteomalacia ; whilst in herbivora osteomalacia is seen to occur without the symptoms of rachitis having preceded it. Lactic acid, in contact with the osteogenic regions, or with completely developed bone, manifests its great affinity for lime, and succeeds either in preventing the formation of bone (rachitis), or in dissolving the bone already formed (osteomalacia).” Experiments on animals and clinical observations are still needed in order to be certain in regard to the part of lactic acid in osteomalacia. Is it cause, or is it effect? This is the question for it as for the microbes in so many diseases, tuberculosis among others. Diagnosis of Osteomalacia.—This can be deduced naturally from what has already been said, and from what I shall add about the osteitis deformans of Paget (which I call benign hypertrophic osteomalacia), about the pseudo- malaeia of young bones or of bones medullized by inflammation, about atrophy of bones (senile and fatty osteoporosis), and about idiopathic fragility of bones. I will only speak here of the differential diagnosis from some diseases with which osteomalacia has been confounded, and which I have not described. (1) Rheumatism is hard to distinguish from osteomalacia at the beginning. There are the same intermittent, shifting pains. But by paying some atten- tion to them, it will be noticed that in rheumatism the pains are less acute, and that they commence rather in the joints, or in the muscular masses, and not deep in the course of the bones. In rheumatism the urine contains urates in excess, in osteomalacia it often deposits phosphates. (2) Syphilis can give rise only to osteitis and periostitis which deform the bone by hyperostosis or by fracture (bone-gumma). Curvature from simple syphilitic softening is rare, if indeed it has ever been seen. The history and course of the disease will dissipate any doubts which may exist at the first examination. (3) Myelitis could only lead to hesitation in case of osteomalacia beginning in the spinal column ; but in myelitis, spinal pains, yielding, anti curvature of the column, are not the dominant symptoms. There may be weakness in the lower limbs, lightning-pains, formication, and cutaneous amesthesia. If there be locomotor ataxia, the gait will be abrupt and irregular, and not tottering as in osteomalacia affecting the lower limbs. Finally, there is neither deformity of the limbs by bending or by fracture, nor diminution of the stature. (4) The nervous osteopathies also are not characterized by bending of the long bones ; the articular extremities undergo a process of wasting, which deforms them and causes them more or less to disappear, being sometimes accompanied b}r colossal hydrarthrosis (of which I have seen one case, in the knee, in a neurotic patient with the morphia habit), and it gives rise to deformities which are distinguished from those of osteomalacia by being situated in the joints. (5) Pott's disease has been confounded with osteomalacia through errors of belief rather than of clinical observation. Thus Piorry and Souligoux place caries of the vertebrae with bone-softening, alongside of true osteomalacia. The deformities of the spinal column in Pott’s disease are distinguished from the rounded curvatures of osteomalacia by their angular shape, and by the ossifluent abscesses which often accompany them. (6) Cancer of the vertebrae merits more attention. In certain diffuse forms of cancer, the symptomatic picture may be altogether like that of osteo-