846 INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS OF THE BONES. normal bone-tissue in the growth of the bone; the vessels which leave the deep surface of the periosteum and pass into the superficial layers of the bone, are centres of lamellar formations which thus mark the boundaries of the Haversian canals. While this process is going on under the periosteum and by transforma- tions of the osteogenic layer, modifications occur on the surface of the bone and in the compact layer which it is the more important to describe be- cause they are characteristic of osteitis, properly so called. Regarded macro- scopically, the surface of the bone becomes rugous, and the canals of Havers which open upon its surface enlarge, giving this surface a honey-combed appearance which differs completely from the polish which it presents in the normal state. The rugosities of the bone are caused first by absorption of the bone-substance in the region of the canals of Havers, but soon they result from the deposit of new bone-tissue. The enlargement of the canals of Havers is the result of absorption of the bone-tissue by the medullary cells which normally line these osseous walls, and which under irritation proliferate with great rapidity in young subjects. Independently of this absorption along the canals of Havers, the compact tissue is eroded and irregularly perforated by medullary granulations which have the same origin, and which have a tendency to form lacunae in every direction (lacunar erosion). Absorption of the old bone-tissue by the medullary cells is then the first stage of osteitis, but, as we shall see, this absorption is only temporary, and is soon followed by reconstitution of the bone-tissue. We see already that the most active tissue in the process of osteitis is that made up of cellular elements which are susceptible of rapid vegetation, as they are found in the period of growth on the deep surface of the periosteum and in the canals of Havers. These elements have much analogy with each other; they have the character of embryonal tissue, and are made up either of small cells ((medullary cells), or of large cells with multiple nuclei (myeloplaxes of Robin). They are found alike under the periosteum and in the medulla, which leads Ranvier to say that the osteogenic layer is only a layer of the medulla, connected with the medulla of the central canal by the cells which line the walls of the canals of Havers. But, in spite of the presence of analogous cells in the marrow and under the periosteum, these tissues must not be considered as identical. The deep layer of the periosteum has osteogenic properties incomparably more marked. If, instead of the periphery of the bone, its central tissue be irritated—that is to say, the marrow which is contained in the cavity of the diaphysis—the following phenomena are observed: first, the perforation and the crushing of the medulla cause an effusion of blood, which is soon followed by induration of the medullary tissue. If the marrow is already yellow, the fat is absorbed, and the medullary tissue assumes the characteristics of foetal marrow. The medullary cells secrete only a more resistant intercellular substance, which increases the consistence of the tissue and gives it a sclerosed'appear- ance. At the same time, what we have observed in the periphery of the canals of Havers takes place in the periphery of the medullary canal; there is absorption of the bone-substance and increase of the space occupied by the medulla. Such are the phenomena which are seen after irritation of the different tissues constituting bone. But these phenomena represent only one phase of osteitis. When the process has once arrived at the point which I have just indicated, it may stop or continue, and in the latter case it may follow different courses. Either the process continues in the same direction, that is to say, in the way of progressive rarefaction ot the bone-substance, when we have a rarefying osteitis, or, to this rarefaction there soon succeeds pro-