765 GASTRO-HYSTEROTOMY, OR LAPARO-HYSTEROTOMY. interrupted sutures of carbolized silk. The deep sutures should pass down nearly to the uterine lining, and the superficial ones should he inserted between them so as to turn in the peritoneum and bring its serous surfaces in apposi- tion, to favor rapid union. From ten to twelve sutures of each form will be required, as the strain on each individual stitch will thus be less, and the welt will be made impassable to any uterine discharge. The next step is the cleansing of the abdominal cavity from blood and liquor amnii by means of carbolized sponges, after which the abdominal wound may be closed with silver-wire or silk sutures. The abdomen should then be carefully washed and dried, and dressed antiseptically, as after ovariotomy. The instruments used should all be placed prior to the operation in a two-per-cent, solution of carbolic acid ; the sponges likewise, and the hands of the operator and his assistants should be washed therein, and should be re-cleansed when soiled. Uterine Sutures.—In early operations, where the uterus is not diseased and where its muscular power has not been exhausted by expulsive efforts, closure of the uterine wound by stitches is not an absolute essential of safety, as many patients have recovered without it; but the experience of the past teaches us that it is safer to use sutures. Secondary inertia of the uterus may come on, and, without this safeguard, fluid may escape into the abdominal cavity; hemorrhage can be best checked by this form of haemostasis, and a better union can thus be secured as a safeguard against rupture of the uterus in a future parturition. The first operator upon record who used sutures in the uterine wound was Dr. Le Bas, of Mouilleron, France, who did so on August 27, 1769, and saved his patient.1 I find no record of a repetition of the measure until 1828, when an American charlatan was the operator.2 The third to use them was Dr. Wiefel, of Ilullesenbush, who used one suture only, and saved his patient. This operation was reported without date, in February, 1838, and must have taken place on August 22, 1837, or earlier.3 The fourth suture case was operated upon by Dr. Godefroy, of Mayenne, France, on March 27, 1840, the patient being a rachitic dwarf, 42 years old, who had been two days in labor. He used three stitches of waxed silk, and the woman recovered.4 Dr. Frank E. Polin, of Springfield, Kentucky, was the first to suture the uterus with silver wire, which he did in 1852; the patient recovered.5 Two suture cases were saved in the United States in 1867, one with silver wire6 and the other with thread;7 both were late opera- tions. The suture cases of this country now number 38, of which 7 were operated upon early, and 31 late. Of the early cases 3 recovered; and of the late ones only 9. The silver wire has saved 6 out of 12 cases. Catgut should never be used. New Methods of Performing Gastro-hysterotomy.—These are all of German origin, and have been introduced within the last four years, in the hope of attaining a better success than has resulted in Germany from Porro’s modification. They have been proposed, in order of time, by Drs. Cohnstein, Frank, Ivehrer, and Sanger. . w. Cohnstein’s Process.8—The proposition of Dr. Cohnstein, of Heidelberg, is still in theory only. His plan is to open the abdomen by a long incision 1 Journ. de Med., Chirurg., Pharmacie, etc., tome xxxiv. p. 177. 1770. 2 Amer. .Journ. Med. Sci., 0. S., vol. xviii. p. 257. 1836. 3 Casper’s Wochenschrift, S. 123. 1838. 4 Gaz. Med. de Paris, No. 28. 1840. 5 Medical Herald, vol. ii. p. 352. Louisville, 1880-81. 6 New Orleans Med. and Surg. Journ., vol, xxi. p. 454. 1868. 1 Med. Record, p. 1, 1868. 8 CentralbL fur Gynakol., Bd. v. No. 12, S. 290.