1098 APPENDIX. but the rule is that the water-closets should be detached, and entered by a lobby with swing-doors and opposite windows. A different arrangement will be seen in the plan (Fig. 1514) of a ward of the Johns Hopkins Hospital, where the lavatory serves as a lobby or intervening room through which is the entrance to the wTater-closet, the good ventilation of both rooms being considered a sufficient precaution. The advantages of this arrangement are those of convenience and avoidance of a considerable projection from the side of the building, that would obstruct the free flow of air along the outer wall. Three closets, two urinals, and three bowls in the lavatory, are an ample allowance for an ordinary ward for men of from 24 to 32 beds. There should be a special receptacle for chamber-utensils, and the best slop-sink is one which is large and funnel-shaped, of heavy tinned copper, and with a faucet above it, to which a short piece of rubber hose may be attached. This sink should stand free from the wall, on a tiled floor. Simple oval hopper-closets, with flushing rims and hinged seats, are very satisfactory. Automatic flushing apparatus may be used, that discharges water as often as may be desired ; and a modern device to produce the flow by pressure on the seat, by which a part of the flow occurs before using, works very well. All these appliances should be left exposed, without being inclosed by wood work, as should be the water and soil pipes, unless placed in a large central ventilating shaft arranged to be easily accessible. The soil pipes should extend of full size, upward through the roof, and at the foot of each there should be an inlet-pipe for fresh air ; and all the traps should be ventilated by separate pipes carried through the Fig. 1514. Ward in Johns Hopkins Hospital; scale 40 feet to one inch. A, C, private wards ; B, bath-room ; D, dining room; E linen closet; F, store-room for patient’s clothing ; K, kitchen ; L, lavatory ; N,'nurse’s closet; P, water-closets; V, ventilating shaft. roof. While the floors of all these rooms may be of wood, because it is not as cold for the feet as tiles or stone, the latter should be used around the slop-sink and urinals, and the walls of all such service-rooms should be covered with tiles to the height of five or six feet, with painted plastering above. Space should be provided for keeping, and arrangements for filling and discharging, a portable bath-tub on rollers for each ward. The plan which is here given (Fig. 1514), of a one-story sick-ward of Johns Hopkins Hospital, which with others has been kindly furnished by Dr. Billings, shows a very