869 DIFFERENT CLINICAL FORMS OF SPONTANEOUS OSTEITIS. and have called attention to rheumatic osteitis. Gosselin1 has shown that the long bones may be the seat of osteitis of this nature without implication of the terminal joints. Cases of this sort are those which are most convincing, and which ought to settle the question. I have for a long time seen incon- testable examples of rheumatic osteitis and osteo-myelitis, and I share entirely the views of Gosselin on the nature ot this atlection. Rheumatism of the bones is acute or chronic. The chronic form is the commonest, the acute form is the most serious. For a long time surgeons whose attention has been directed to this matter have been struck with the influence of cold upon inflammations of the bones. It lias been noticed that syphilitic osteitis develops itself preferably in the superficial bones which are exposed to cold and external influences. But the analogy between rheu- matic fever and the fever which accompanies acute osteitis has been equally noticed. Hence the name pseudo-rheumatic, given by Roser to the osteitis which constitutes so much of what is now known under the name of infec- tious osteitis. I have already spoken of this form of osteitis, and need not here return to it. The existence of rheumatic osteitis is not to be denied when it occurs in certain circumstances which suffice to determine its nature; when it breaks out, for example, in a patient who has already had one or two attacks of acute or subacute articular rheumatism, and when it manifests itself under the influence of cold, without any traumatism, and especially when it is accompanied by, or follows, inflammation of the fibrous parts of the joints. It is most apt to attack the periosteum, and then it constitutes a superficial inflammation of the bone, which may pass off without leaving any permanent trace, but which sometimes gives rise to sub-periosteal ossifications or to permanent osteophytic excrescences. Rheumatism may also attack the medulla and give rise to forms of osteitis which are painful, stubborn, and sometimes very hard to cure; but which may rapidly disappear after a certain time. The following is one of the most remarkable examples of rheumatic osteo-myelitis which I have ever had an opportunity to observe, and which have fixed my conviction upon this point:— A lady, 51 years old, who had had in her youth slight attacks of acute or subacute rheumatism, was caught in the rain on the 7th of December, 1863, and walked for the distance of a kilometre2 in the mud and water. She reached her home with her feet soaked. The next day she had swelling and acute pain in the anterior tarsal and tarso- metatarsal joints. For two nights she had a little fever. Eight days afterwards the foot had resumed its normal condition, but she had lancinating pains along the tibia, and especially in the interior of the bone. I saw the patient at this time. There was no perceptible swelling; there could only be felt, especially in the evening, a little heat along the bone. I prescribed blisters, leeches, and Dover’s powder. The pains were slightly lessened during several days, but then they came back with greater severity, and, for eight months, in spite of the most active revulsives, they were the despair of the patient, who lost all sleep. At the end of this time the tibia had not undergone any notable increase in size ; it had merely a slight arching, and on some days warmth, appreciable to the hand, along the inner face of the bone.' At one period the pains assumed such a character that I spoke to the patient about the necessity of trephining the bone. She at this time went to consult Nelaton and Laugier, who diagnosticated an osteo-myelitis, and also spoke of trephining. The patient refused any operation and continued to suffer. She was better and worse for several months, then, in the month of June following, eighteen months after the beginning of the attack, she went to take the waters of Saint-Sauveur in the Pyrenees, and came back completely cured. All 1 Clinique Chirurgicale de la Charite, 3e edition. Paris, 1878. 2 [Nearly five-eighths of a mile.]