469 VITAL AND ORGANIC LESIONS OF THE URETHRA. end a small metallic piece with the thread of a screw cut into it. This bougie is left in place for twenty-four hours, at the end of which time there is screwed to its extremity a conical sound of German silver, the diameter of which is, at its point, that of the flexible bougie, and the largest diameter of which cor- Fig. 1334. Holt’s divulsor. responds to number twelve of the scale of Charriere. This sound is then pushed into the canal, at the same time that it propels.before it the flexible bougie, which enters and curls up in the bladder. The sound is then with- drawn, and replaced, either the same day or the next by a sound, number 2, then by a sound number 3. This done, nothing more remains but to continue the dilatation of the stricture by means of ordinary bougies of progressively increasing size, and to advise the patient to maintain the cure by passing every day, then every two days, and then every week for several months, a flexible bougie, number 18.- (c) Forced Catheterization.—Already employed in the eighteenth century, forced catheterization was specially recommended by Desault, Chopart, Roux, and Boyer. Boyer used for this operation a conical catheter of moderate calibre, with very thick walls, and with a diameter diminishing insensibly from the handle to the further extremity, which terminated in a blunt point. With no other guide than the finger placed in the rectum, this catheter was pushed into the urethra with a force proportioned to the resistance it met with. When once it had entered the bladder, it was allowed to remain for three or four days, and then replaced with a flexible catheter which was changed every eight days, and the diameter of which was progressively increased. It is useless to insist upon the dangers occa- sioned by such a manoeuvre, by which there is a much greater chance of per- forating the urethra than of passing the stricture, and which, in spite of the favorable opinion of Yoillemier, is now completely abandoned. The procedure of Mayor differs little from the preceding. Mayor em- ployed seven pewter sounds, six of which were cylindrical in form and of a diameter gradually increasing to nine millimetres ; the seventh was conical, and, like Benique’s Ho. 1, was four millimetres in diameter at- its point. Mayor began by attacking the stricture with the small sound, and pushed into it successively each of the six others. This is another detestable opera- tion, which ought to be absolutely rejected. (d) Sudden Dilatation or Divulsion.—Divulsion is an operation which, like the rapid dilatation which I have just described, is applicable only when there is already a certain degree of permeability of the canal. The divulsor of Voillemier (Fig. 1835), which is without contradiction the most perfect of the instruments of divulsion, is composed, 1st, of a conductor made of two