TUMORS OF THE BONES. 976 deeper bones are harder to recognize. They are found preferably, however, on the long bones of the limbs, and on the bones of the skull and face. In a patient in the wards of the IIotel-Dieu of Lyons, I saw some years ago multiple exostoses. All the extremities of the long bones were the seat of hard tumors, of exostoses, some of which were the size of a fist. The patient, who was forty years old, was not incommoded by the tumors. These variously shaped osseous masses occupied the ends of the long bones—to be more exact, the juxta-epiphyseal portions—a point upon which Broca and Soulier have dwelt. They were also, by their greater development at certain juxta-epiphyseal portions, a new clinical demonstration of the laws formulated by Professor Ollier1 in regard to the growth of the long bones. Etiology of Exostoses.-—Sometimes, in consequence of a contusion, of a blow, there is developed on the surface of a bone a slow inflammatory pro- cess ending in the formation of an exostosis. Under other circumstances, in consequence of an inflammation of neighboring parts, as in certain cases of rebellious ulcer, masses of bone are formed, varying from an osteophyte to an exostosis. Syphilis often causes the production of exostoses; and gene- rally on the bones of the skull. These three classes comprise all the forms of exostosis which can be called symptomatic. By the side of these symptomatic exostoses, Soulier classes the idiopathic exostoses, which he divides into two categories : Osteogenic exostoses, or ex- ostoses of development, and autogenic. The latter are those in which none of the causes which I have mentioned are recognized. They have become more and more rare in proportion as a more rigorous investigation of the history and antecedents of the patients has been made. Heydenreich does not hesitate to exclude them. I believe that we may properly follow him, and retain in our classification:— Idiopathic exostoses, Symptomatic exostoses Osteogenic, or of development. ^ From a local cause, ( From a general cause, f Traumatism. 1 Nei Neighboring inflammation. Syphilis. Osteogenic Exostoses, or Exostoses of Development.—It is, as I have said, only since the thesis of M. Soulier that a clear idea has been formed of exostoses coming on during growth, and keeping pace with the development of the skeleton. These exostoses have sometimes been called epiphyseal exostoses.2 I shall reject this denomination, as it suggests the inference that these bone- tumors are developed habitually on the epiphyses—which is not the case— and as on the other hand it might cause them to be confounded with the exostoses which I have called epiphyseal, following Cornil and Iianvier. Under the name cartilaginous periosteal exostoses, Sir Astley Cooper did not have in view exostoses of development alone ; indeed, he gives this name to a bone-tumor occurring in a patient fifty years old. Osteogenic exostoses arise in the portion of the diaphysis in which the bone increases in length, in the part of the bone called juxta-epiphyseal. They have, indeed, as Broca and Ollier have shown, this seat in common with inflammatory and neoplastic lesions in young subjects. The name epiphyseal exostosis should then be supplanted by the name juxta-epiphyseal exostosis. Under the influence of any form of irritation, an excessive activity of the 1 Traits de la Regeneration des Os. Multiple exostoses are not rare ; and under certain cir- cumstances, as in the case of the patient referred to, it would seem as if the subjects were under the influence of a true osteogenic diathesis. 2 Compendium de Chirurgie.