813 UTERINE TUMORS. them. This plan of treatment is now practically abandoned, and twenty years ago was condemned by West as a relic of barbarous surgery. Ecrasement is most applicable to the removal of polypi and of pedunculated fibroids. It may be practised either with the chain-ecraseur of Chassaignac, the wire-ecraseurs of Simpson or Braxton Hicks, or the galvano-cautery wire. In either case the object is the same: to remove the tumor more slowly and with less hemorrhage1 than with knife or scissors. In this mode of treatment the patient is etherized and placed on her left side, and the tumor or cervix is exposed with Sims’s speculum ; if the growth is still intra-uterine, the cervix is cut or dilated until the tumor is reached; this is then drawn down with volsella, or with lion-toothed or Museux’s forceps, and the chain or wire is carefully passed around the pedicle; just before the chain or wire is tightened, additional traction is made on the tumor to be sure that as much of the pedicle as possible is included in the loop. Then the screw is worked, or the galvanic current is turned on, very slowly, so as to heat the wire only to a red heat, or to crush the pedicle only after gradual strangulation. Little or no hemorrhage should attend this step of the operation; if the tumor be too large to pass the vulva, it should be cut up and removed piecemeal. Ecrasement is preferable to the old method of excision ; but, except with the galvano-cautery, it is little practised in this country. Enucleation is adapted to the removal of interstitial fibroids and of such submucous growths as still retain a sessile base. It may be accomplished (1) by incision of the mucous membrane covering the face of the tumor, and then leaving its gradual expulsion to nature with such aid as ergot can give to the uterine contractions; (2) by detaching the tumor from its capsule by Emmet’s or Simpson’s nail-curette, by Sims’s enucleator, or by Thomas’s spoon-saw. By whatever method practised, enucleation is always fraught with danger to the patient, while to the most expert surgeon it is more difficult than ovariotomy. It should never therefore be attempted until all means of palliating the disease have been exhausted. Its steps areas follows: The patient is etherized and kept in Sims’s position on the left side. The cervix (previously dilated) is caught up with a stout tenaculum and divided bilaterally with scissors or thermo-cauteiy; prefer- ably with the latter. The tumor is now examined with the finger, and its attachments to' the uterus (previously examined with a flexible sound) are accurately determined. A deep incision is made through its mucous mem- brane and capsule at the most convenient point, a strong volsella or lock- forceps is buried in the neoplasm, and, while moderate traction is made, the enucleator or spoon-saw is inserted between the stretched tumor and capsule, and a steady effort is made to shell the former out of its bed. An assistant now grasps the fundus uteri through the abdominal wall and pushes it steadily down into the pelvis until the end of the operation. If the serrated scoop be used, separation is to be effected by what its author terms1 “ a gentle pen- dulum motion” of the handle which gives the teeth of the blade considerable play, but must sometimes be changed for a distinct sawing motion; if either of the enucleators, it must be made to scrape or work around the tumor so as gradually to force it loose from the capsule. In alb cases the tumor must be constantly “ hugged” by the instrument until it is completely separated. From time to time segments of the growth may have to be cut away with scissors, and a fresh hold taken wdth the volsella. The danger with all enuclea- tors is least in tumors near the cervix and greatest near the fundus uteri; and when the uterine walls are thin, this danger is enhanced. This is especially true of the spoon-saw, which has already been fatal in three cases in the Hew 1 Archives of Medicine (New York), Feb. 1879.