920 SCROFULO-TUBERCULOUS AND OTHER STRUCTURAL DISEASES OF BONES. affections of the joints and of the bones being entirely analogous, it is proper to say here, in support of the hypothesis of this mode of propagation, that, in an autopsy made at the clinique of M. Ollier, it was possible to trace the tuberculous infiltration of the lymphatic system even to the pelvic gan- glia, after a white swelling of the ankle. M. Gangolphe, chief of the clinique, following up this subject, has collected a large number of cases of tubercu- lous osteo-arthritis in which the swollen efferent ganglia were found to be tuberculous. lie believes that, in the generality of cases, adenitis following fungous articular or osseous lesions has this specific character. He has recently had a new opportunity to verify this remark, in a woman for whom I amputated a thigh for a white swelling of the knee. At the dissection of the limb I found a small popliteal ganglion, which nevertheless disclosed the same tuberculous elements as the fungus of the knee, and quite typical, as may be seen in the preceding illustration (Fig. 1451), which I owe to the pencil of M. Mondan, from a preparation of M. Gangolphe. Etiology of Tuberculo-Scrofulous Osteopathies.—The general causes which give rise to tuberculosis of the bones are those of the diathesis itself. Contagion, hereditary predisposition, and physiological weakness, constitute the etiology common to both external and internal tuberculosis. They need not be considered here. We shall study only the part of traumatism in the production of' tuberculous outbreaks in the bones. The experiments of Schuller are well known. After having rendered animals tuberculous by means of injections of tuberculous material, Schuller inflicted various trau- matisms upon their joints. In his experiments he saw fungous arthritis developed, with swelling of the extremities of the bones, enlargement and vascularization of the areolae of the spongy tissue, and sometimes suppura- tion. The same traumatisms, inflicted upon animals which had not been inoculated, caused only effusions of blood, the absorption of which took place in the space of eight days. These experiments prove the influence of traumatism in subjects rendered tuberculous. Clinical experience had for a long time indicated that contusions and strains were often the cause of white swelling in the scrofulous, in persons predisposed to tuberculosis or mani- festly under the influence of the diathesis. M. Ollier has been led, by clinical observation and by experimentation, to describe a juxta-epiphyseal strain in children, a name by which he designates the whole array of lesions produced in the j uxta-epiphyseal regions of the diaphyses of the long bones by violent movements of the joints. This kind of strain, hitherto but little understood, is more common than is generally believed, and is the point of departure in many cases of osteitis in childhood and adolescence, in patients who are ill- cared for or predisposed. This observation is full of instruction. One must not treat lightly blows and articular strains, which, in children, leave pain in the epiphyseal regions. For the traumatism, if not recognized or if misunder- stood, may be the exciting cause of tuberculous localization. The following is the way in which M. Ollier expresses himself on this point: “ Juxta- epiphyseal strain is usually without gravity, and amounts to no more than a painful indisposition to motion which soon disappears of itself. But if the child be not taken care of, and if it be scrofulous, or hereditarily predisposed to tuberculosis, j uxta-epiphyseal strain may be a frequent cause of rapid or slow osteo-myelitis, dependent on the giving way and trabecular fracture of the spongy tissue. All forms of osteo-myelitis may he the consequence of tne lesions of j uxta-epiphyseal strain.”1 It is moreover, as far as tuberculosis 1 Ollier, De l’entorse juxta-epipliysaire et de ses consequences immediates ou 61oign6es, au point de vue de l’inflammation des os. (Revue de Cliirurgie, Oct. 1881, p. 809.)