OPERATIONS ON THE (ESOPHAGUS. 35 some with attenuated or rat-tail extremities. These are usually cylindrical. As remarked by Mackenzie, however, inasmuch as the transverse diameter of the oesophagus ex- ceeds its antero-posterior diameter, bougies constructed upon that model (Fig. 1180) ought to be better theoretic- ally ; and Mackenzie has found his views confirmed by •experience. Whalebone stems with ivory knobs (Fig. 1181) are also much used. The knobs should be much more tapering at the top than those usually made, so as to present less difficulty in disengaging them from beneath a stricture. The knobs should be securely fastened, and the fastening should be thoroughly tested each time that they are used, lest they should be accidentally detached in with- drawal. Ivory and metallic knobs are sometimes so ar- ranged as to be screwed at will upon the guiding rod, a method of fastening much more secure than glueing or riveting. The safest instrument by far is the graduated ■oesophageal dilator of Trousseau (Fig. 1182), made of ca- theter material or of whalebone. It permits testing the capacity of the stricture, and systematic dilatation, without change of instrument. Dilating machines, constructed of split metallic sounds, the sides of which can be separated mechanically by the action of a screw at the free extremity, have been employed by some surgeons. It is questionable whether they are safe instruments. Another mode of dila- tation which may be mentioned, consists in using a thin rubber tube which is passed through the stricture by the aid of a rigid conductor, on the withdrawal of which the tube is to be distended with compressed air, with water, or with mercury. Fig. 1181. (Esophageal dilators. Fig. 1182. Graduated oesophageal dilator of Trousseaa. Operations on the (Esophagus. CEsophagotomy and (Esophagostomy.—Three operations are included under this head : (1) An incision from the exterior through the entire parietes of the oesophagus, for the purpose of reaching its interior to remove a foreign body, etc. (external oesophcigotomy), or to establish a fistula (oesojehag ostomy); (2) a nick or an incision through cicatricial or diseased tissue, or through the mucous membrane and as little deeper tissue as possible, by means of an instrument passed through the mouth, for the purpose of permanently enlarg- ing the constricted calibre of the gullet, or for facilitating subsequent dila- tation {internal oesophagotomy); and (3) a procedure in which the external wound is utilized to afford access to a cutting instrument within the oesopha- gus {combined oesophagotomy).