94 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF TIIE RECTUM. satisfaction this terminal arrangement of fibres, although I have examined many rectums for that purpose. Other fibres are said to pass between the bundles of the external sphincter, and to be inserted into the subcutaneous •connective tissue around the anus; while still a third set pass backwards towards the coccyx, into the anterior surface of which they are inserted by means of a very thin tendon. We now come to the circular fibres. Of these there is little to be said, except that, like the longitudinal, they are far better represented in the rectum than elsewhere throughout the intestinal tract. At the terminal inch and a half of the bowel they are collected in great numerical force, and constitute the internal sphincter. I have often observed how this muscle varies in different individuals, both in extent and power, while dilating it previous to operating on internal hemorrhoids. In some it readily yields after a moment’s effort, while in others I have to use my whole strength for a considerable time. The explanation probably is, that, in the latter cases, the muscle has been subjected to frequent contractions in consequence of the pre- sence of a fissure or an ulcer of the anus, which has produced an increase in its strength, and possibly in its bulk. A third sphincter has been described by O’Beirne, as situated high up, near the sigmoid flexure. Nelaton, too, has described a partial sphincter two and a half inches from the anal orifice. I must say that I myself do not believe in the existence of either the one or the other of these additional sphincters, except as an occasional, and, in my expe- rience, an exceedingly rare, anatomical curiosity. The submucous connective tissue of the rectum is abundant, especially at- its lower part, where it forms the nidus in which the rectal vessels ramify after having made their way through the muscular coat, as will be described hereafter. Strong septa pass between the bundles of muscular fibres, which form a kind of framework for them, to the fibrous stroma of the fat surround- ing the rectum. The mucous membrane lining the rectum does not materially differ, as far as I am aware, from that found in the remainder of the large intestine; like that it consists of closely packed Lieberkiihn’s follicles, with here and there a solitary gland which is only a circumscribed nodule of lymphoid tissue. Immediately over the solitary glands, Lieberkiihn’s follicles are absent. The muscularis mucosa—or unstriped muscular layer of the mucous membrane proper—is said to be well developed around the anus, and to counteract any tendency, should such exist, to prolapsus. Certain marks and folds of the mucous membrane are interesting, and will now be examined. First, there is the white line around the anus which marks the junction of mucous mem- brane and skin, as also the linear interval between the internal and external sphincters. jSText, the columnae of the rectum, or the pillars of GUisson or of Morgagni. These, from six to eight in number, commence at the point of union of skin and mucous membrane, and extend about three-quarters of an inch or more up the bowel. They are permanent—that is, they are present even when the anus and lower part of the rectum are distended—and in each is found one of the parallel rectal arteries, branches of the superior hemor- rhoidal, described by Quain. Little arches of mucous membrane, with their concavities upwards, unite the anal extremities of these pillars, and have been called “ anal valves.” They are often so indistinct as not to be recog- nizable. Lastly, I must just mention the so-called valves of mucous mem- brane described by Houston, in the year 1830, although I may at once say that I do not believe in their existence. He enumerates four, arranged in a spiral manner, the second, which is the largest, being on the anterior wall opposite the base of the bladder, and he ascribes to them the function of sus-