APPENDIX. 1136 medical officers, hospital stewards, and attendants remain with them, and that an ample supply of medical and hospital stores, dressings, and provisions be left for their comfort. After an engagement, the medical director of the army should be communicated with as to the means of transportation for the wounded to general hospital; he should be informed of the number, and of the time at which they will be ready for such transit; on receiving instructions, the necessary orders are given. The medical inspector generally attends to the shipment of wounded. During action, the duties of a medical director require his presence at corps headquarters, where he can be found, and where he can obtain the earliest information and receive orders and reports. As a general rule, therefore, he cannot stop to operate during an engagement; he should remember that lie is responsible tor all the wounded, and that there are occasions in which the delay of half an hour will result in the loss of his hospitals. The corps commander should be kept informed of the operations of the department both during and after engagements, and should always be consulted in matters of importance. As it is necessary for the medical director to visit his hospitals and field depots from time to time, he should always leave a competent medical officer at headquarters to represent him. When practicable, the hospitals of the different divisions should be located near together— each one, however, to be kept perfectly independent and distinct in its management. This will much facilitate the operations of the ambulance and medical departments, enabling the divisions to assist each other in taking care of the wounded. For instance, should one division suffer more than another, an operating staff, or more if necessary, with an Autenrieth wagon, can be ordered to the suffering division; again, should one division be deficient in shelter or supplies, they can be obtained from the other divisions; another advantage is the facility given for inspection, and for giving instruction, and in distributing the wounded as they come in; for instance, all available ambulances are used when wanted, without reference to their divisions. An ambulance reaches the hospital containing wounded of different divisions; no difficulty is experienced in distri- buting them, each to his own division hospital, thus enabling them to be treated by their own medical officers and to be registered in their own divisions. Again, in send- ing off the wounded to general hospital, the loading of the wagons will be much facili- tated, and a corps train readily found. When avoidable, the wounded should not be sent off from the field division hospital until they have been operated upon, properly dressed and fed, have obtained some rest, and have somewhat recovered from the shock of their injuries. In sending sick and wounded off to general hospital, the corps director gives the necessary orders to have the wagons or cars properly hedded with brush or hay, specifies the number of rations to be taken, and the number of medical officers, stewards, and attendants that should accompany the train, giving any instructions that he may deem important in reference to the roads, camping, etc. When the troops remain in camp some time, it will be found convenient to have near each division a few ambulances, with horses hitched up ready to convey patients to the hospital. These are known in the corps as picket ambulances, and are relieved every twelve hours. At this post there should be a medicine-wagon, under the charge of a steward, to issue medicines to the regimental surgeons. The post should be marked by an ambulance guidon; this wagon is to be relieved as often as emptied. As a large number of stretchers and lanterns are always broken or lost during an engagement, orders should be given after an action to have the deficiencies supplied as early as possible. Duties of the Medical Inspector of a Corps.—A medical inspector of a corps has but few specific duties assigned to him, and these, with one exception, are such as the medical director may direct to facilitate the management of the medical department, and to keep him informed of the deficiencies which need correcting, and of errors that should be recti- fied ; as his relative position to the medical director is analogous to that occupied by. an assistant adjutant-general to his commanding general, any authority he may exercise in the discharge of duty is entirely delegated power. The only reports made to him are the daily morning reports of each hospital from which the corps report is made. A monthly report of the inspection of troops has been used ; but since that has been aban- doned, reports, not in tabular form, have been made of the condition of the troops only to the medical director, calling his attention to any violation of sanitary rules that may have been observed. Previous to an engagement, or march, he sees that the direction