ELEPHANTIASIS OF THE VULVA. 705 The disease is essentially chronic, lasting for many years; when death re- sults, it is usually from peritonitis. According to the statistics presented by Taylor, treatment relieves more cases than it cures, but more cases are cured than entirely unrelieved. The patients do not suffer severe pain, but in the hypertrophic variety of the disease have great discomfort and difficulty in walking, and coition may be likewise interfered with; such a result, too, fol- lows healing of ulcerated surfaces at or near the vulvar opening, which is nar- rowed by the resulting cicatrices. Treatment—Most authorities attach little importance to constitutional remedies. Taylor uses few: he chiefly trusts to the bichloride of mercury in doses of one-twenty-fifth of a grain, in a tonic mixture. L. de Sinety ad- vises suitable hygiene and the administration of cod-liver oil and the potassic or ferric iodide, the two last-mentioned remedies being used separately; he also advises the employment of tincture of iodine, and he speaks favorably of sulphur waters and sea-bathing. The local treatment is of the first importance. In the serpiginous form of ulceration, cauterization is advised. Taylor recommends the acid nitrate of mercury ; Martin,1 strong nitric acid; Guerin,2 Vienna, arsenical, or cbloride-of-zinc paste,preferring the last; L.de Sinety,3 caustic potassa; the galvano-cautery and the thermo-cautery have been advised by others. In deep ulceration caustics cannot be used ; but here the parts may be brushed with tincture of iodine, and iodoform may be applied in powder. In the hypertrophic form (esthiomhie elephantiasic, lupus prominens) excision is usually resorted to. This has been done with the galvano- cautery, with Taylor’s crushing scissors, and with Cheron’s instrument—-forci- presseur d lames paraUMes—used to first pedunculize the tumors, after which they are cut off. The method of erasion, or scraping, as used by Volkmann in lupus of the face, has also been applied to vulvar lupus.4 * A small, long spoon, with moderately sharp edges, has been devised for the purpose of scrap- ing away the hypertrophied tissues. This scraping must be very complete; after the hemorrhage has ceased, the solid nitrate of silver is freely applied, and then the parts are dressed with lint dipped in carbolized oil; an anaes- thetic is advisable during the processes of erasion and cauterization. Elephantiasis of the Vulva. Elephantiasis affects the external genital organs next in frequency to the leg and foot. The disease is not of frequent occurrence except in tropical and semitropical countries. The first case of vulvar elephantiasis® clearly described, was observed by Saucerotte in 1776. The disease may occupy the entire vulva, or may be limited to a particular part, as, for example, the clito- ris. In the majority of cases it is found affecting one or both labia majora, either with or without other parts being involved. Mayer’s6 statistics, which include thirty-seven cases, show that the disease began in eighteen during the period between twenty and thirty years of age. Elephantiasis usually appears in the form of broad-based tumors, but they may be pedunculated. These tumors frequently grow to an enormous size; one may be as large as the head of an adult, and weigh from twenty to thirty pounds. Barron Larrey7 saw in Egypt a woman who had elephantiasis of 1 Billroth, Handbucli der Frauenkranklieiten. 2 Maladies des Organes Genitaux Extenies de la Femme. 3 Traite Pratique de Gynecologie. 4 Stowers, British Medical Journal, January 3, 1885. 6 Cellard, De l’Elepliantiasis Vulvaire cliez les Europeennes. 1877. 6 Die Elephantiasis Vulv*. 7 Relation historique et cliirurgicale de l’Expgdition de l’armee d’Orient en Egypte et en Syrie. VOL. VI.—45