831 OPERATIONS FOR OVARIAN AND UTERINE TUMORS. mined removal of large solid tumors, this should at first be short, and after- wards enlarged. There is no doubt that in cases of short explorative incision the ratio of recoveries is greatest, whatever be the fact in completed ovariotomies. In the latter, the forcible traction and other efforts to deliver a sac, which may contain more or less of solid matter, through a short incision, is fraught with more risk than a much larger section of the abdominal wall. Sir Spencer "Wells’s statistics show that no diminution of mortality follows the shortening of the incision below five inches, but that a higher death-rate always occurs when it exceeds six or six and a half inches. It is proper to begin, then, with a section three inches long (to be extended to five or six), in the median line, midway between the umbilicus and the symphysis pubis. This should pass boldly through skin and fat down to the linea alba; if the latter be missed, and the rectus muscle cut into, a probe must be pushed under the sheath to- wards the middle line until the linea alba is found, when the dissection is at once continued. The transversalis fascia is raised and cut on the director, and the extra-peritoneal fat is lightly divided down to the peritoneum. This is smooth, shining, and usually translucent, with the sac or intestines visible through it. Before proceeding further, all bleeding, which has until now been restrained by sponging, is to be securely checked with compression- forceps, of which four or five may have to be applied at once; and the bot- tom of the incision is also to be made even with that in the skin, unless (as should be done) this equality has been preserved from the first. The perito- neum is now to be caught up with a tenaculum, or forceps, opened obliquely with scissors, and then freely divided to the extremities of the incision with scissors upon a broad grooved director. The latter is invaluable for this purpose, as its smooth convex back pushes away adhesions and loops of in- testine without injury. Should vessels bleed in the peritoneal incision, they are at once caught up with compression-forceps and ligatured with catgut; ligatures on the vessels in the parietes or rectus muscle are best dispensed with. The glistening wall of the cyst is now exposed. The hand is then rinsed, in carbolic or bichloride solution, and two fingers are gently passed around the cyst—if possible, into the pelvis, to ascertain its uterine connection. If no adhesions exist in front, a steel sound or “ searcher” is carefully passed around the tumor, and its base is examined. If, for any reason, it be thought impossible to proceed, the tumor is not further disturbed ; a thin flat sponge is then introduced and held with forceps under the line of the wound, and upon this the peritoneum is closed with a cat- gut overstitch, which is tightened as the sponge is withdrawn, and the short abdominal wound is then closed. This will have been an explorative incision. If the tumor be removable, the adhesions are broken up with the sound as far as possible, and the surgeon passes at once to the second stage. (2) For the purpose of evacuating the contents of the cyst, various plans and appliances have been in vogue. Sir Spencer Wells employs an elaborate trocar with an attachment of rubber tubing to carry off the fluid; Dr. Keith prefers a large aspirator which works rapidly; Mr. Tait uses a trocar which is simply a modification of Wells’s; and many German operators simply cut in with a bistoury, and empty the sac by lateral pressure with the hands. In Kew York, almost evei’y one uses the Emmet trocar,1 which is simple, cleanly, and admirably efficient; one of large and one of small size should be at hand. The patient is gently turned on her side, facing the operator, as origi- 1 Emmet, op. cit., p. 728 ; Thomas, op. cit., p. 737.