624 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. The prognosis is serious: the morbid material may become encysted, but it is liable at any time to give rise to deposits in the bladder, kidneys, and lungs. Occasionally the peritoneum is affected. On the other hand, the deposits may remain localized, and though fistulee may form, they may eventually heal up. The epididymis is completely obliterated ; the discharge frocn the fistula very rarely contains spermatozoa. That traumatic, functional, or infective irritation may give rise to the formation of nodules in the testicle or epididymis, Billroth has no doubt; and when he meets with indolent nodules in subjects otherwise healthy, he adopts no treatment, or uses iodine inunctions or compresses soaked in lotio plumbi. He has never seen these nodules disappear spontaneously, and considers them incurable. At the urgent request of a patient who had been told by his medical attendant that he was impotent, owing to the pressure of the nodules on the vasa deferentia, he dissected the masses out with antiseptic precau- tions. The wounds healed by the first intention, but whether the operation had the desired functional effect was not ascertained, as the patient was lost sight of. Treatment.—These cases are to be treated by a generous diet, residence in a climate where the patient may live in the open air, and out-of-door occu- pation, when possible. Tonics, especially quinine, syrup of the iodide of iron, and cod-liver oil are useful. The genitals must be freely bathed with cold water night and morning. When the parts inflame, they must be rested and fomented, and when pus has formed it must be evacuated by a suitable incision. Unfortunately, instead of drying up, the abscesses continue to discharge thin, curdy pus, fistulas remaining. Strumous abscesses of the testicle have been opened by caustics instead of by the knife, and injected with astringent and alcoholic injections, or with tincture of iodine or other antiseptics. The caustic paste of Canquoin or caustic potassa has been intro- duced into the centre of the abscess. M. Chassaignac advocates free drainage with his India-rubber tubes, and in 1851 M. Malgaigne proposed resection of the affected parts, which in some cases has proved advantageous. M. Verneuil1 scrapes out tuberculous deposits from the testicle with the sharp spoon, and then applies the actual cautery, which is made cone-shaped. The application gives relief for a year or two, and delays the recurrence of the disease. If the discharge and irritation cause much local annoyance, or appear to be undermining the patient’s general health, or if the gland be deemed useless in consequence of its disorganization by abscesses and sinuses, it should be removed. A careful examination of the lungs should be made ; also of the prostate and vesiculae seminales, by means of the finger introduced into the rectum. The condition of the kidneys and bladder must also be noted. The removal of a source of irritation is likely to be attended by good results, and the possibility of general tuberculosis arising from a tubercular deposit in the testicle may furnish another reason for the removal of a damaged organ. Castration is, moreover, an operation fortunately unattended by much danger. Mention has been made elsewhere of the condition of the semen in these cases, and the absence of spermatozoa during the attack, and even in a very early stage of the complaint, has been noted. A careful examination of the semen of a middle-aged married man, whose sexual powers were failing, and who had an extensive deposit in each epididymis, failed to discover sperma- tozoa. He presented a well-marked angular curvature in the dorsal region of the spine, but was unaware of its existence, and was unable to give any account of it. 1 Gaz. Med. de Paris, Nov. 1871.