408 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE BLADDER AND PROSTATE. 6 Op. cit., p. 230. become an atonied one. On the occurrence of retention of urine, as indicated either by the signs which usually accompany a distended bladder, or by the occurrence of incontinence or overflow, regular catheterization must be em- ployed, with the view of rendering such assistance to the act of micturition as may enable the bladder to regain the power lost during its period of in- action. In this way many a patient may be saved the distress of an atonied bladder in addition to some other urinary complication. Careful and regular catheterization is the great remedy both for vesical paralysis and for the pre- vention of atony. The introduction of a catheter as often as may be necessary is to be pre- ferred to the retention of an instrument, for, as Hey,1 of Leeds, observed, “a patient sooner regains the power of emptying his bladder by the natural efforts, when the catheter is withdrawn after each extraction, than when it is suffered to remain constantly in the urethra.” For restoring the tone of the bladder, other expedients have been resorted to. The cold douche, applied over the region of the bladder, or to its interior by means of an irrigator, has been found of much service. In addition to this, medicines, such as iron,nux vomica, and strychnine, have been adminis- tered, with varying degrees of success. Dr. Glynn, of the Liverpool Royal Infirmary, speaks very highly of the tincture of cantharides, given in twenty minim doses, in cases of paralysis of the bladder arising from affections of the spinal cord; it is an old-fashioned remedy, which, in addition to its diuretic properties, probably exercises, as suggested, a direct, stimulating action on the bladder by its presence in the urine. Professor Von Langenbeck has found considerable benefit in these cases from the use of hypodermic injections of ergotine,2 and in two instances in which this mode of treatment was tried at my suggestion, the patients cer- tainly appeared to gain muscular power; both of them suffered from impeded micturition, with considerable prostatic enlargement. Galvanism has also been successfully employed in this class of affections, where disorganization of the nerve-centres controlling micturition has not taken place. Althaus3 has found benefit from its external application over the region of the bladder. Coulson4 considers that the induced current should alone be employed, one pole being introduced into the bladder, and the other applied over the lumbar vertebrae or the hypogastric region. The electrode for introduction into the bladder should consist of an elastic bougie, termi- nated by a metallic knob and having along its centre a conducting wire. The introduction of an ordinary flexible bougie along the urethra is often of service in these cases. Under ordinary circumstances, as the instrument is about to enter the bladder, most persons generally experience an urgent desire to micturate. This fact has been advantageously utilized in arousing the dormant powers of a temporarily paralyzed viscus. Spasm and neuralgia of the bladder are conditions of disturbed innerva- tion which, for the most part, are traceable to the presence of some other disease, or to a disordered condition of the urine. Spasm.—Pure spasm of the bladder has sometimes been observed in children suffering from other indications of chorea. In illustrating this affection, Van Buren5 speaks of it as a distinctly choreic condition of the bladder, which, though rare, has probably often been overlooked. 1 Practical Observations in Surgery, p. 430. 2 Medical Times and Gazette, April 7, 1877. 3 British Med. Journal, Nov. 18, 1871. 4 Op. cit., p. 271.