INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE URETHRA. 500 as possible, to fulfil this first indication by means of single or multiple incisions, penetrating more or less deeply into the corpora cavernosa in the neighborhood of the pubis. I have been able to ascertain, in a number of those on whom I have operated, that this straightening of the penis, even when it was at first incomplete, was completed afterwards in consequence of the development of the genital organ. Second stage: Formation of the new Canal from the Extremity of the Gians to the Neighborhood of the Fpispadic Opening.—In place of making use, as in the operation of Thiersch, of cutaneous fiaps taken from the upper and lateral parts of the penis, I have endeavored to form a canal sensibly approaching the normal conditions, by dispensing with any kind of fiaps, and by forming this canal almost exclusively at the expense of the corpus spongiosum and corpora cavernosa of the penis. In epispadians, indeed, the corpora cavernosa are united by a fibrous septum, often quite thin, and reflected from the bulb of the urethra and from the skin. By depressing this septum from above downwards, the corpora cavernosa are seen to approach one another, and to form a more or less deep groove, which is capable of lodging a catheter, and is well fitted to form a true canal by the union above the catheter of its upper margins. If its depth appear insufficient, an incision made in the median line makes it possible to increase it as much as is necessary. When this is done, I make, on the upper surface of the penis (Fig. 1349), on each side of Fig. 1349. Fig. 1350. Formation of new canal; shows raw surfaces and position of sutures. Modified quilled suture. the median line and at a sufficient distance from it, a vivification, quadri- lateral in shape, aa! bb', about half a centimetre in breadth, and extending from the extremity of the glans to the neighborhood of the epispadic open- ing. I afterwards secure perfect apposition of the vivified surfaces by means of^the quilled suture with single wire, which I have described in connection with hypospadia. (Figs. 1350 and 1351.) Although it is admissible to attempt to secure at one time the complete reproduction of the canal, from the glans to the neighborhood of the epi-