602 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. South1 writes that spermatocele is often a sore nuisance to young people; the testicle becomes so exceedingly tender that the mere pressure of the dress upon it causes pain. It is not followed by fistula, but it recurs at intervals of two or three months. The patient should rest and support the parts, and should apply cooling lotions. The disposition to the affection ceases after a time. Neuroses of the Testicle. The nervous affections of the testis which require notice are the irritable testicle, in which the parts are so sensitive that the least touch gives pain, and neuralgia of the testicle, in which the pain is more deeply seated, and, passing upwards along the spermatic nerves to the groin, gives rise to a neuralgic con- dition. The former is apt to come on after abuse of the sexual organs, and in young men with active sexual organs and inability to exercise them. In cases of debility, in which the patients are addicted to masturbation or are liable to seminal emissions, the parts must be soothed by the local application of seda- tives, such as aconite liniment or belladonna plaster, and protected by means of a well-lined suspensory bandage. The passage of a full-sized sound will lessen the over-sensitiveness of the prostatic urethra. The diet and the state of the bowels must be carefully regulated, and then tonics, suitable to the individual case, may be given. The parts should he well douched with cold water; ex- ercise and sea-bathing are also beneficial. If a varicocele he present, it must be treated according to its severity. The disease is not inflammatory, and a careful examination of the testicle, when removed, has failed to discover any morbid change. In the Hunterian Museum (Specimen 2440) is a testicle which was extirpated because it had been for many years the seat of the most severe pain. There is now no discernible change in its structure, hut when first ex- amined a small quantity of pus was found in the epididymis. Sir A. Cooper states that he was thrice compelled, solely at the request of the patients, to re- move their testicles because of irritability. The pain varies in character; it may he a numb, pricking pain like that caused by pressure on a nerve, and is much increased by handling the part. Sometimes the pain is relieved for the time by an emission, but returns with increased severity. In neural- gia of the testis the attacks come on at any time, coming and going in a capri- cious manner, as in neuralgia in other parts of the body. The pain may be very severe, and cause retraction of the organ, hut it is not superficial as in irritable testicle, and the part can be handled without pain, though swollen. Severe pain and retraction of the testicle, accompanied by vomiting, an irri- table condition of the bladder, and intense pain along the spermatic vessels and nerves, are met with when a renal calculus is passed. Indigestion and gout often distress the patient. General remedies, such as aperients, nerve- tonics, and sedatives, must he given ; the latter are the most important—such drugs as cannabis indiea, chloral, and bromide of potassium, in full doses. Locally, opium, conium, belladonna, chloroform, or menthol, either singly or in combination, may he applied. An ointment containing the muriate or acetate of morphia (gr. v-,?j) or aconitia (gr. j-9j) may be smeared on the cord twice a day (Curling). In some instances blisters prove useful; in all, evapo- rating lotions, or, still better, ice, may be applied. Castration is not to be recommended, although it has been done in certain cases. 1 Clielius’s Surgery, vol. ii. p. 295.