1199 HISTORY OF SURGERY. made to surgical pathology and practice. He was born in 1713, and died in 1788, having lived during three-quarters of the eighteenth century. As boy and man, or student and master, he served fifty years of his life in St. Bartholomew’s Hospital. His descriptions of caries of the vertebrae and spinal curvature were so accurate and vivid that they are regarded as truly classical, and will ever be remembered as long as the name of “ Pott’s Dis- ease” shall be written or spoken by surgeons. The beautiful engravings of spinal caries with which his book is illustrated are works of art. His treat- ment was conservative. He suggested relieving the lower limbs and spine from pressure, by using supports under the arms, and placed much reliance on the use of issues. Pott did not approve of “ back-board collars, steel- bodice, swings, screw-chairs, and other pieces of machinery,” which, he says, are used, “ but all to no purpose.” John Hunter was, unquestionably, the most distinguished anatomist and surgical pathologist of the eighteenth century. He was born in 1728, and died in 1793. He was a pupil of the celebrated Wm. Cheselden, and of the eminent Percival Pott, two of England’s greatest surgeons. He wrote a treatise on venereal diseases. His description of a true chancre was so graphic that the lesion in question will ever bear his name—The Hunterian Chancre. His “ Treatise on the Blood, Inflammation, and Gunshot Wounds,” is a monument of painstaking investigation and sound judgment; its in- fluence on surgical theory and practice was very important. Hunter’s ope- ration for aneurism was scientific and successful. His theory taught that the artery should be ligated at a considerable distance from the aneurism, on the cardiac side, in order to secure a sound portion of the vessel, since he had observed that the artery was generally diseased near the dilatation. He was the first surgeon who ever tied the femoral artery for popliteal aneu- rism. Hunter had a large experience as a surgeon in the Peninsular War. His enthusiastic love of comparative anatomy and natural history is univers- ally known. The formation of the Hunterian Museum of 14,000 specimens, at a cost of seventy thousand pounds sterling, was a great achievement for a single individual. It is a fitting honor that his remains lie under a monu- ment, erected by his professional friends in all parts of the world, and that remains and monumeut are placed with Britannia’s noblest dead in West- minister Abbey. It is also fitting that the Royal College of Surgeons should be the conservator of his museum, and that each returning year his merits and example should be extolled in an Hunterian oration. Pierre-Joseph Desault was born in 1744 and died in 1795. He was the first to give systematic courses of lectures on surgical anatomy, and clinical lectures on general surgery. He invented many surgical instruments and many pieces of surgical apparatus. The Desault fracture-splint wTas the first device for continuous extension. He also invented the straight ampu- tating knife. He divides with John Hunter the honor of pointing out the true method of curing aneurism. He was the editor of the “ Journal de Chirurgie,” the first periodical devoted to this department of the healing art. His sudden death is said to have been caused by poisoning, while in attend- ance upon Louis XVII. His successor, Chopart, and likewise Doublet, who also attended the dauphin, both followed Desault to the grave within four days. The surgical student of the present day ought to carefully read the history of the discovery of modern anaesthesia. Ages, indeed many centuries, pre- vious to the nineteenth, a considerable number of anaesthetics were known and used by surgeons. The poppy, henbane, mandragora, hemp, etc., were known to deaden pain. Herodotus says that the Scythians inhaled the vapor of hempseed to produce drunkenness. In the year 220, IToa-tho, a Chinese