INFLUENCE OF OSSEOUS INFLAMMATIONS ON THE GROWTH OF BONES. 883 In the same limb, the bones of the principal segments are in an inverse re- lation, and when the upper and lower limbs are compared, the analogous bones are in an inverse relation to each other. In the upper limb, the humerus grows in an opposite manner to that of the radius and ulna. The former grows most markedly from above; the latter especially from below. While the humerus grows principally from above, the femur, which is its analogue in the lower limb, grows chiefly from below. The radius and the ulna grow chiefly from below, while the tibia and fibula grow a little more from above. From this a formula may be derived for the large long bones of the limbs. In the upper limb, in the bones of the arm and forearm, the extremities distant from the elbow grow the most. In the lower limb, in the bones of the thigh and leg, the extremities at a distance from the knee grow the least. The relation which I have already noted between the activity of physio- logical growth and the frequency of neoplastic processes, should lead us to study the influence which may be exerted by inequality of growth in the two extremities of the bone upon the seat of election of such processes. Long ago1 I showed that the end of a bone which takes the most active part in its growth, is also the seat of election for neoplastic lesions, such as benign or malignant tumors. The same relation exists with regard to inflam- matory lesions, but it is much less striking. The rule seems even to have quite a number ot exceptions. This depends upon the fact that inflamma- tions of the bones are often caused by cold, and especially by traumatisms, such as juxta-epiphyseal strains, repeated frictions, and contusions of the bones, and that these latter causes act more especially in certain regions, such as the knee and the ankle, so as to set up inflammation exclusive of any special predisposition. Here, moreover, are some statistics which show what relations exist between the law of growth of the long bones of the limbs and the seat of neoplastic and inflammatory lesions. In by far the greater number of cases neoplastic lesions are situated in the extremity of election for growth in length. In fifty-six cases which I have gathered at random, as they came under my notice, I have found the following proportions for the seat of neoplasms in the large bones of the limbs:— (Upper third . . 3 Femur, 24 cases . . . . -j Middle third . . 2 ( Lower third . . 19 C Upper third . . 10 Tibia and fibula, 16 “ .... -j Middle third . . 3 (Lower third . . 3 (Upper third . . 7 Humerus, 10 “ . . . . -j Middle third . . 2 ( Lower third . . 1 Radius, 4 “ . . . . $ Upper third . . 0 Ulna, 2 “ . . . . £ Lower third . . 6 The seat of election for these tumors corresponds, then, exactly with the seat of election for increase in length; they are the lower end of the femur, the upper end of the tibia and fibula, the upper end'of the humerus, and the lower end of the radius and ulna. The same relation exists for spontaneous osteitis, hut it is not so striking; because, as I have said, the frequency of occasional causes of osteitis in certain regions counter-balances physiological predisposition. Repeated trau- matisms and the action of cold will set up inflammation preferably in that 1 Memoires de la Societe des Sciences Medicales de Lyon, 1863.