. EFFECTS OF IRRITATION ON THE VARIOUS CONSTITUENTS OF BONES. 847 gressive reconstruction of the bone-tissue by the ossification of the osteo- blasts found in the canals of Havers, and the bone-substance is seen to resume its original compactness and even to reach a state of greater condensation. Then we have a condensing osteitis, likewise called restitutive or 'productive osteitis. Under other circumstances the hyperplastic medullary tissue soon produces pus. Leucocytes are formed in greater or less abundance, and accumulate in appreciable masses under the periosteum or in the medullary canal. They are also formed in all the canals of Havers which contain embryonal cells, and the osseous matter, being bathed in pus, cannot continue to live, but becomes more or less rapidly necrosed. As soon as the process takes this direction we have a suppurative osteitis, which is acute or chronic, according as it progresses rapidly or runs its course slowly. These forms of osteitis often follow each other, or are found at the same time in the same inflamed bone. We may produce them experimentally, and determine in this way the relations which they bear to each other. By experimenting upon young animals these dif- ferent processes may be easily studied; they may be seen, according to the mode and degree of irritation, to proceed in regular succession or to follow an irregular course. By abandoning to itself a mild osteitis, produced with exclusion of septic agents, reconstruction of the bone is often seen to follow rarefaction, after which everything is restored to order, and at the end of a few weeks the irritated bone has so fully resumed its normal characteristics that it is difficult to distinguish it from healthy bone. If the irritation have been often re- peated and long continued—if, above all, it have been set up in an adult subject—reconstruction of the bony substance continues, a long time, and the productive osteitis is not onty reconstructive but also condensing. This is what is seen around old fractures. Excess of irritation, produced by exaggeration of the traumatism or by the introduction of septic matters, occasions the formation of pus. This suppura- tion usually brings on necrosis of a greater or less part of the bone. The vessels contained in the canals of Havers, being able to adapt themselves only with difficulty to the changes induced by the inflammation, are obliterated, and the circulation is interrupted, whence results death of the portion of bone which they nourish. But here again we must consider the age of the tissue, and I have shown1 that in young animals the compact osseous tissue may disappear by medullization in spite of suppuration of the marrow. A traumatism which will inevitably produce necrosis in an adult, will set up only a rarefying osteitis in a child. The different forms of osteitis which we shall hereafter find associated in the majority of subacute or even chronic cases seen in man, are artificially produced in animals, and vary with the degree and mode of irritation in different parts of the same bone. They may even be found in different parts of the same bone after a single irritation. The degree of irritation diminish- ing in proportion as we recede from the point to which the irritating agent has been applied, we can appreciate the influence of the degree of irritation on the form of the process. If a wound is made in a bone, and a foreign body is introduced by this wound and left in the medullary canal or in the spongy tissue of an epiphysis, the following disturbances will be observed: around the foreign body, the for- mation of pus; at a certain distance, rarefaction of the bone-substance and proliferation of the medullary substance; further off, the formation of new layers of bone under the periosteum, and ossification of the medulla. If the 1 Op. cit.