HISTORY OP SURGERY. 1193 Surgery was enriched by many improvements in the course of the event- ful sixteenth century. The surgery of war received particular attention, but it would be entirely impracticable to attempt an enumeration of all that was done in the held of military surgery. Neither will space admit of a list of the names of the authors, or of the treatises, both great and small, which were added to the literature of the subject during this period. A brief allusion to a few of the most celebrated is all that can be made in this place. Alfonso Ferri, Ferrus, or Ferrius, as we often find it spelt, was a native of Naples, and flourished about the middle of the sixteenth century. He arose to great eminence, being the first physician and surgeon of Pope Paul III., and was the author of several works on surgery as well as on venereal diseases, lie was the inventor of a very ingenious instrument for the extraction of deeply imbedded bullets, which device was employed by surgeons for many years, being always known as the Alfonsinum. It consisted of three spring steel branches, equal in size, and with sharp retractile teeth ; these were fixed in a handle, and held together by means of a sliding ring, and when closed the end was round and smooth, as was also the cylinder which was made by the junc- tion of the three branches. In this condition it was passed along the sinus made by the ball, which, when touched, was grasped, by sliding up the ring and permitting the branches to expand. Having thus been seized, the ring was pushed down tightly, and the instrument holding the bullet extracted. The Alfonsinum became the model for many similar prehensile instruments, some of which are still employed in surgery. In the year 1555, there was published in Latin, at Tigurium (Zurich), a magnificent folio of more than four hundred leaves, under the title “ De chirurgia scriptores optimi quique veteres et recentiores,” etc. The book con- tains the works of Jean Tagault, of Jacob Holler, of Marianus Sanctus, of Angelus Bologninus, of Michael Angelo Biondo, of Bartolommeo Maggi, of Alfonso Ferri, and of Joannes Langius, together with the treatises of Galen on bandages, and of Oribasius on fractures and luxations, and the machines for their adjustment. To all of which is added an account of the medicines employed in surgery, by Jacob Dond, and remarks on the excellence and antiquity of surgery, by Conrad Gesner. I mention this book •as an example of the ponderous treatises on surgery which were in use at the time which I am now considering. The work was amply illustrated with large woo,d engravings of many very interesting surgical instruments then in use. The volume is rich in treatises on the cure of wounds of all sorts, but particularly those made with fire-arms. I advise the curious reader to hunt in the libraries for this collection, wherein he will find a world of interest. There are figures of the Alfonsinum, and numerous other bullet-forceps, almost, if not quite equal to the best now in use. There also he will see the lithotomy instruments of Marianus Sanctus, his grooved-staff, his spoons, scoops, for- ceps, etc. John Woodall, a distinguished English military and naval surgeon, was born about the year 1549. He served in France as surgeon with the troops sent by Queen Elizabeth to the aid of Henry IY. He was a surgeon of St. Bartholomew’s Hospital, and surgeon-general of the East India Company. He wrote a book which became quite famous, entitled “ The Surgeon’s Mate” (1617), also the “Viaticum, or Pathway to the Surgeon’s Chest” (1620), and several other works. He was the first to suggest amputation of the leg as low as the ankle, in diseases and injuries of the foot. This hint he obtained from travellers in the. East Indies, who had seen cases of persons who had undergone the punishment of having their feet chopped off, and who had recovered, being able to wralk very well by putting the stumps