ORCHITIS. 609 Variolous Orchitis.—Mr. Curling lias failed, although he has made care- ful inquiries of the medical officers of the London Smallpox Hospital, to verify the statements of M. Gosselin1 and M. Beraud,2 that smallpox is associated with inflammation of the testicle. The latter observer describes two kinds, the 'peripheral variolous orchitis and the parenchymatous; the former is the more common. It must be remembered that orchitis may be due to malarial influences, when it should be treated by the use of quinine and by removal to a healthy locality. Dr. Ellis and Dr. Duffey3 have pointed out that orchitis may be a concomitant or sequel of Mediterranean fever. Epididymitis may occur at any time during an attack of gonorrhoea* Diagnosis of Orchitis.—An attack of acute orchitis may present some of the symptoms met with in a case of strangulated inguinal hernia, the most prominent of which are nausea, vomiting, and costiveness, with swelling of the spermatic cord and pain extending to the loins. In cases of congenital hernia, the testicle will be obscured by the presence of the contents of the hernia in the tunica vaginalis, but in ordinary cases it can be seen and felt at the bottom of the scrotum. As a rule, a hernia has a history of some duration; it occupies the inguinal region, becomes distended on coughing, and disappears under pressure, or when the patient lies down; it first makes its appearance in the upper part of the scrotum, and forces its way downwards. When it has appeared but recently it will be small, but may be so tender as to make an examination difficult, requiring the use of an anaesthetic. The testicle is large, hard, and heavy, retains its form, and can be isolated from the cord above. If a retained testicle be inflamed, there will be an empty and undeveloped scrotum on the same side, and there may be a history of the improper application of a truss, of a blow, or of a gonorrhoea. The vomited matter consists of the contents of the stomach only, there is no distention of the abdomen, and the pain is referred to the side affected, and is not general. A purgative enema will bring away some fecal matter and clear up the diagnosis. As a rule, a hernial swelling is not as painful as an inflamed testicle, but the two conditions may be combined. Prognosis.—The effusion into the tunica vaginalis, consequent on epididy- mitis, is soon absorbed, and the two layers of the membrane may become adhe- rent. Hunter says that the hardness of the epididymis may continue for some time, even for life, but that seldom if ever do any bad consequences result from it, if the vas deferens be not rendered impervious; and not even then if it is only in one testicle, the other being equal to all the purposes of generation. The testicle sometimes wastes away after an attack of inflammation, and the ducts of the glands may become obstructed. In cases of double orchitis, the patient may be rendered sterile, owing to the passage of spermatozoa being stopped. The inflammation runs its course in about a week, and then subsides; the testicle remains tender for some time, especially after connection, and is liable to a fresh attack of inflammation. Varicocele predisposes to repeated attacks of orchitis; and gonorrhoeal epididymitis, in its turn, aggra- vates the varicocele, and renders atrophy of the testicle more likely to occur. M. Gosselin has noticed a gonorrhoeal inflammation of the vas aberrans. A hard cord ran in a straight direction from below upwards for a short distance on the outer aspect of the epididymis, and terminated in a hard, tender swelling. The testicle was unaffected. 1 French Translation of Curling on Testis, etc. 2 Archives Gen. de Med., 5e ser., t. xiii. p. 274. 3 Lancet, 1881, vol. i. pp. 161-577. VOL. VI.—39 4 See Vol. II. p. 341, supra.