696 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE FEMALE GENITALS. 3 Billroth, Handbuch der Frauenkrankheiten. Instances where a foreign body has been introduced into the vagina by the cruel brutality of men, are not wanting. Such was the case coming under the care of Dupuytren, of a girl who, after being violated by some soldiers, was further subjected to injury by having a pomade-pot thrust into the vagina. A peasant forced into the vagina of his idiotic wife a broken wineglass ; a young man, after having intercourse with a girl, placed a large crystal of sul- phate of copper in her vagina ; three farm-hands tore the external sexual organs of a maiden, partly with their fingers, and partly with stones which were used to fill up the vagina. Among other abominable cruelties of this kind may be mentioned the introduction of a turnip, and of the cone of a fir tree. Most frequently the foreign bodies which the surgeon is called to remove are pessaries that have been improperly introduced, or that have been worn too long. A tampon, used to arrest uterine hemorrhage, has been forgotten, and has remained in the vagina for many months. The effects produced by foreign bodies in the vagina vary with the injury done in their introduction, with their size, form, and material, and with the length of time which they remain. There may be wounds of the external genitals or of the vagina, or the foreign body may through the vagina penetrate adjacent organs. Foreign bodies usually produce more or less irritation of the vaginal mucous membrane, with increased secretion. In many cases an obstinate leucorrhoea, compelling the patient to seek professional advice, leads to the discovery of the foreign body. The increased vaginal discharge is at first mucous, then muco-purulentor purulent, or it may be serous ; after a time it becomes more or less offensive in odor, in some cases so offensive as to suggest malignant disease, a suspicion which may be confirmed by the occasional or frequent occurrence of hemorrhage. The foreign body may interfere with the func- tions of neighboring organs, especially those of the bladder and rectum ; hence vesical irritability or dysuria, rectal tenesmus, and in some cases dysentery. The vaginal surface may be abraded, or ulceration of the walls may occur, from pressure of the foreign body; adding to these lesions the offensive charac- ter of the retained vaginal secretions, we have the conditions which may lead to septic infection. Kottman has reported a death from this cause in a woman twenty-five years old, who had introduced a spool into the vagina, and who had subsequently suffered from leucorrhoea for several years. The spool was found behind the cervix, in the vaginal vault, and removed ; symptoms of peritonitis were well marked, and the patient died ; an autopsy showed puru- lent exudation in the pelvic peritoneum, especially in the recto-uterine cul-de- sac, at a point corresponding with that which the spool had occupied in the vagina. Runnals1 has reported a case of death from pysemic pneumonia and peri- tonitis, occurring in a girl of twenty-four years, and caused by the retention of a piece of sponge in the vagina; the measurements of the sponge, removed after death, were three and a half by two inches. The offensive discharge, hemorrhage, pain, and emaciation observed, in many cases lead to the suspicion, or even to the diagnosis, of malignant dis- ease. Capuron2 has narrated a case in which such a diagnosis was made for these reasons, but in which upon examination he found a sponge in the vagina. Breisky3 has given a similar case as occurring in an unmarried woman ; although no confession was got from her, Breisky believed that the sponge had been introduced to prevent conception, and had been forgotten. Never- 1 British Medical Journal, 1882. 2 Bibliothfeque du Medecin-Praticien, tome i.