GASTRO-HYSTEROTOMY, OR LAPARO-HYSTEROTOMY. 761 As it has been several times performed with success in modern times by ignorant and excited women suffering the pangs of labor, it is reasonable to presume that the same may have happened at almost any period in the past. One of these self-inflicted and successful operations was performed by a negro slave near Kingston, Jamaica, in 1769.1 A second, was the work of a quad- roon of Uassau, Hew York,2 in 1822, who was but fourteen years old, and pregnant with twins: she was alive and well when seen at the age of twenty by the physician who had dressed her wound. A third case is still more in keeping with what we believe may have happened in ancient times. In 1879, a woman at Prischtina, Austria, not far from the Servian border, was in the pains of labor for three days, but to no purpose. Having no prospect of relief, she seized a razor and cut open her abdomen and uterus: the child was removed alive ; and she then got a neighbor to sew up her wound.3 Several months afterwards, she and the child were reported as well. As there have been also, in modern times, several well-authenticated cases in which women have been delivered of children by the “ untimely rip” of a cow’s horn, most of these escaping a fatal issue, we may naturally infer that the same animal must have long ago proved the possibility of success in this mode of delivery, and led to a hope in the promise of relief by the knife.4 We also learn through Robert Wr. Felkin, F.R.S.E., who witnessed an operation in 1879, that the natives of Uganda, in Central Africa, are in the habit of per- forming it. The woman he saw was a primipara of 20, who with her child was saved.5 6 Indications for the Operation.—In noting the causes of difficulty which have led to the employment of the Ctesarean section within the present century, in different countries, we are struck with the fact, that what has been considered a proper reason for the use of the knife in one country, has been denounced in strong terms as insufficient in another. The greater mor- tality after the early operation in Great Britain, as compared with the United States, must of necessity limit its adoption to such cases as present the greatest possible obstacles to craniotomy and evisceration ; and what might be considered, in the light of prospective success, a fair ground for abdominal delivery in the latter country, would not be in the former. Other reasons have been advanced upon the continent of Europe, which have led to the operation being performed, for the saving of the child, upon women having but a moderate pelvic deformity, or upon women in a dying condi- tion ; but these refer to questions of baptismal belief, and are not properly surgical. The fact must also be noted, that the operation presents a much more encouraging prognosis in country places and small towns in our own country, France, Austria, Germany, and Italy, than in large cities, and espe- cially in the large maternities of Paris, Berlin, Vienna, and Milan. In the United States, there have been in all only eight hospital operations, but all were fatal. The most common cause of dystocia leading to gastro-hysterotomy, is rachitic deformity of the pelvis, and next to it (in Europe), pelvic collapse from malacosteon. Other causes,‘are kyphoscoliosis.; dwarfing of the pelvis ; fibroid tumors blocking up the pelvis; exostoses from the ischium or sacrum; 1 Mosely on Tropical Diseases, p. 89. 1789. 2 New York Med. and Phys. Journ., vol. ii. p. 40. 1823. 3 Wiener med. Woehensehr., No. 13, 1880. 1 Of seven cases on record, all but one ended in recovery ; two children torn out at maturity were lost, as was one removed at six months ; one removed at eight months lived eight hours ; and three were ultimately saved. 6 Edinburgh Med. Journ., April, 1884, pp. 922-930.