URINARY CALCULUS. 168 main element of stone it is exceedingly rare, except in the case of prostatic concretions. The carbonate-of-lime calculus was first described by Brugnatelli, in 1819. It forms in the kidney as a rule, and is generally multiple. Among the most noted cases are those of Haldane, Hunstone, and AVaggstaffe, all carefully described by Roberts, who personally made a careful study of the specimens- passed from the patient under the care of Air. Hunstone. In Hunstone’s- case, says Roberts, “ myriads of minute calculi of carbonate of lime were voided with the urine,” “the largest of which were about the size of poppy- seeds, and the smallest only just visible to the naked eye as bright specks.” AVaggstaffe’s carbonate-of-lime calculus was a “large branching calculus” taken from the kidney after death. Usually these calculi are small, rarely larger than a nut. They may be white and friable (Prout), but are generally gray, yellowish, brownish, or even reddish, or bronzed, or amber-colored, and quite translucent (Roberts). They are exceedingly hard, and on section show a varying arrangement of curved lines about one or more nuclei, resembling in structure the mulberry calculus. Cystine or Cystic-Oxide Calculus.—This form is almost sufficiently un- common to claim a place in the third group of stones, those I have desig- nated as “excessively rare.” Arnaldo Cantani, in his essay on Cystinuriar etc.,1 states that cases of cystine stone have only been reported 59 times in medical literature up to the date of his paper. AVollaston discovered cystine in 1810, and believed it to be an especial and exclusive product of the walls of the bladder, but soon after Alarcet found it in a kidney-stone, and Scherer in the liver. In 1824, Stromeyer and Prout found it in the urine where there was no calculus. Owen Rees thinks it more common in dogs than in men. Cleotta found it in the kidney of the ox. Beneke, in 1850, found only 8 cystine calculi among the 649 of Hunter’s. Alusemn. Leroy d’Etiolles, among 1100 stones, found only 6 of cystine. Ivanchieh encountered 1 in 300 cases of lithotrity, and Dumreicher 4 in 105 operations. Golding-Bird found 11 among the 374 calculi in Guy’s Hospital Aluseum. Ultzmann has 8 in his table of 545 stones, 3 of which are in his special collection of 200 stones.2 Civiale, up to 1851, seems to have encoun- tered cystine only 8 times. Carter says that it forms less than 1 per cent, of the stones in the Aluseum of Grant College, Bombay. It is exceptionally uncommon in the United States. Buck’s collection in the New Arork PIos- ital contains one of large size removed by lithotrity. Cystine may form a calculus in the kidney or in the bladder, either consti- tuting the exclusive constituent of the calculus, or forming the nucleus. It is encountered in connection with the mixed phosphates, uric acid, and oxalate and carbonate of lime. All observers report heredity as an active cause in its production. Cystine stones occur singly, but are often multiple. They are generally small, but have been found in the bladder weighing several ounces. They are rounded, smooth, or occasionally worm-eaten on the sur- face. Generally yellowish, they may be white or quite dark. On section they are smooth, pale-green, waxy-looking, not laminated. The fracture looks semi-transparent, satiny, and glistening. Golding-Bird says that the yel- lowish color changes to a blue-green when the stone is long kept exposed to the light. 1 Cystinuria, Fettsucht und Gallensteine. Berlin, 1881. The German translation, by Seigfried Hahn, forms part of the third volume of the Specielle Patliologie und Tlierapie der Stoffweclisel- krankheiten. 2 Die Harnconcretionen, S. 41. 1882.