837 f OPERATIONS FOR OVARIAN AND UTERINE TUMORS. 2 Op. cit., p. 757. 1 Archives of Medicine, Feb. 1880. or six inches—is necessary. In a large minority of these cases the ovary and tube are closely adherent to the tumor; under these circumstances the sur- geon should consider the propriety of hysterectomy as a substitute. As to the clinical importance of Battey’s operation, it may be said to be still sub judice; but, in properly selected cases, each year’s experience shows its greater value, which is far higher to-day than when live years ago Munde1 and Thomas2 summed up its merits. Extirpation of Uterine Appendages; Tait’s Operation.—Mr. Lawson Tait, of Birmingham, has from the beginning contended that it is far more important, in all the cases for which Battey’s operation is recommended, to remove the Fallopian tubes than the ovaries; but that, for convenience of manipulation, it is best to remove, both. This is because the tubes have more to do with the function of menstruation, while the ovary is physiologically concerned with ovulation only. For twelve or fifteen years he has consis- tently followed in practice the conclusions that flow from these premises. His procedure, known as “ Tait’s operation,” is precisely the same as that last described, with one exception : instead of ligating and cutting away the ovary alone, he passes the ligature in the form known as “ the Staffordshire knot” so as to penetrate the broad ligament nearer the uterus, thus including both the tube and ovary. When the ligature is secured these are cut away “ en masse” the tube being first carefully aspirated if hydrosalpinx or pyosal- pinx seems to exist. The subsequent steps of the operation are the same, except that in Mr. Tait’s practice “ Listerism” has no existence, scrupulous cleanliness and general antisepsis taking its place. This modification of the “ Battey operation” is now generally adopted in Hew York. For the detail of Mr. Tait’s view’s and procedure, couched in much crispness of expression and pleasantly discursive writing, the reader is referred to his volume on “Diseases of the Ovaries,” 1883, which is an ampli- fication of his well-known “ Hastings Essay,” of 1873. Hysterectomy.—In describing the surgical treatment of uterine cancer reference has been made to hysterectomy, both by the vagina and by Freund’s abdominal method. Vaginal Hysterectomy.—This operation is performed as follows:— 1. Drag the cervix firmly clowm to the vulva with Museux’s forceps, in- cise the vagina in front of the cervix, and separate the bladder carefully from it, without opening the peritoneum. If quite healthy, this is done with the bistoury; if at all diseased, with the galvano-cautery. . Free the cervix posteriorly in the same manner. 2. Cut into Douglas’s space and pass two fingers of the left hand through it, over the fundus, down into the utero-vesical pouch. Upon these, as a guide, divide the peritoneum cautiously with blunt scissors, and separate the uterus from all its attachments except the broad ligqments. 3. How retrovert the womb, and bring it down, if possible, through the posterior vaginal incision ; this is not easy, but may be effected by grasping it near the fundus with stout volsella forceps. If the vagina be small, or the uterus very large, or hard, or if a complicating fibroid be in the way (as in a case which I once saw), this step is extremely difficult. 4. Transfix the broad ligament on one side with a blunt (aneurism) needle carrying a stout braided silk ligature, tie it in two parts, and put a separate ligature around the whole; divide each section with scissors, and, when the