227 LITIIOTRITY. When seized, the stone is carried to the centre of the bladder, and is dealt with as before. Last fragments are often very difficult to find. The lithotrite may be used as a searcher, tapping various portions of the bladder until a fragment is touched, but when the piece is thus located the tip of the lithotrite must be turned away from it, and the jaws then opened to be again rotated toward the suspected area for the purpose of embracing the stone. If the jaws are opened on the spot where they encounter it, one or other of the blades is pretty sure to displace the fragment. In old men, the bas-fond behind the prostate may constitute a veritable pouch out of which the stone or fragments will not roll, and the instrument must be made to pick them up within it. This is accomplished by reversing the lithotrite so that its beak looks downward, and commencing at the hack wall of the bladder to explore the floor by to-and-fro movements, as the beak is gradually drawn toward the vesical neck. A short-beaked instru- ment with square tip and broad male blade is suitable for this manoeuvre. As soon as a fragment is touched, the beak of the lithotrite is turned away from it, opened, and, returning over the same spot, again closed to grasp it. The operator may now rotate the beak entirely before crushing, or simply move it to one side, to be sure that he has not picked up a fold of the bladder along with the fragment. In all manoeuvres of the lithotrite within the bladder, particularly in the one last mentioned, great care should be employed in every movement, so as to jar, bruise, and scrape the tender soft parts as little as possible. Subsequent Crushings.—It was formerly the rule in lithotrity to keep the patient in bed after his crushing, and not to operate again until the disturb- ance caused by the first sitting had subsided; and the same rule is still applicable with all its force when more than one crushing is required. But in these days it is doubtful whether any stone is suitable for old fashioned lithotrity, unless it is so small that it can he easily crushed in two or three seizures. In those exceptional cases, however, where several sittings are required, each subsequent operation is to he performed after an interval of several days or a week, or such time as may be necessary for the bladder to rally from the irritating effects of the previous manipulations. It must here he remembered that in any case, if the inflammation run high after a given crushing, and considerable calculous debris remain in the bladder, especially if the fragments be hard and large, the proper treatment is to give ether and disembarrass the -bladder at once of the offending ele- ment by litholapaxy. After-treatment.—After the sitting, the patient is replaced in his bed, warmly wrapped, with hot bottles at his feet if he lias been chilled by the exposure of the operation, and a hot, dry application over the bladder, with perhaps a warm drink (without alcohol). He must not be allowed to pass water except upon his back, or rolled' over on his side, during at least the first twenty-four hours after the crushing, and in some cases, if there are to be several sittings, it is better for the patient always to lie down to pass water until the bladder has been entirely emptied of fragments ; otherwise he runs the risk of an angular fragment becoming impacted in the urethra. The urine should all be strained through a fine sieve or coarse cloth, and the sediment dried and collected for weighing. A suitable anodyne should be administered during several days, and should be pushed if there is any ten- dency to vesical spasm or inflammation. An alkali or diluent may be given with advantage in most cases. Milk forms a suitable diet. Any chilling of the patient is to be strictly guarded against. After forty-eight hours the patient may get up and remain about, avoiding cold, being careful of his