778 TIIE CESAREAN SECTION AND ITS SUBSTITUTES. the wound, and is then to he peeled from the fascia transversalis and fascia iliaca, and lifted up until the vagina is brought into view near its connec- tion with the cervix uteri. The second assistant, at the left of the operator, now introduces his hands guarded with a warm napkin so as not to let the parts slip, as happened in the second Baudelocque operation, and holds up the peritoneum with the intestines overlying it, so as to open the parts to the eye of the operator, while the first assistant, opposite to him, draws the uterus forcibly upward and to the left side, so as to expose the vaginal wall on the right. The third assistant, at the patient’s left hip, holds a female catheter in the bladder as a guide, and to lift this viscus from the vagina, while the operator, with a round-ended, wooden instrument, or, better still, with his fingers, forces up the vaginal wall as far as possible into the wound. I say, “ better still with his lingers,” because experience has shown the value of the touch in avoiding pulsating arteries and large veins. The next step, and a very important one, is to open the vagina. Dr. Garri- gues, of New York, has recommended that this should be done with the thermic or actual cautery, to avoid the risk of hemorrhage as happened in the first Baudelocque case, hut experience has shown that this precaution is unnecessary. The opening is to be made by a small incision, as far anterior to the cervix uteri as possible, or about one and one-half inches from it, so as to avoid the ureter and the larger vaginal bloodvessels. When the incision has been made, the index fingers are to be forced through, and then used as opposing tractors to tear the vaginal wall in different directions, care being taken not to open the parts too near to the neck of the bladder. This having been done, the catheter is to be removed, and if the membranes have remained intact they are to be ruptured. The uterus is next to be tilted to the left at the fundus, and drawn backward, while the os uteri is lifted to the right iliac fossa by means of a blunt hook, or, what has been thought preferable, the huger. The foetus is now to he delivered by the force of the uterus, by turning, by the forceps, or, if dead, by other instruments, and the placenta is to be expelled by expression, and removed through the wound. When the uterus is fully contracted, the iliac fossa should be cleansed by irrigation with warm carbolized water, the stream escaping through the vagina; if any vessels bleed, they should if possible be ligated, but if not, a cylindrical non-conducting speculum may be introduced through the wound and the cautery applied. Persulphate of iron may also be applied per vaginam if found requisite. To test the integrity of the bladder, which has frequently been slightly ruptured, it may be injected with warm milk, as recommended by Dr. Garrigues and since employed by others ; if any escape by the vagina, it will readily be recognized by its color. If any rupture is found it should at once be sutured, and a catheter should be kept in until the laceration has healed. These accidents are evidently unavoidable, as they usually occur in the additional stretching of the vaginal rent made by the passage of the foetus, and have happened where every care that experience could suggest has been exercised. Next, the abdominal wound is to be closed by inter- rupted sutures of carbolized silk, and dressed antiseptically as after ovariot- omy. As the wound will only partially close by the first intention, it has. been thought advisable to leave its lower part open, and it has been also recommended to use an abdomino-vagina 1 drainage-tube. Laparo-elytrotomy is not difficult of execution if the operator is conversant with the anatomical relations and appearances of the parts to be encountered. Much stress has been laid upon the normal direction of the ureters, and their relations with the uterus, vagina, and bladder, without giving due considera- tion to the fact, that in the subjects to be operated upon great deformity and