INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE URETHRA. 468 every clay, but the number of sounds introduced at each of them should vary. At the start only one or two are passed, but afterwards the number may be carried up to four or five, taking care to return each time to the two or three last numbers which have been used the day before, in order to thoroughly prepare the canal to bear a higher number. This procedure, which is simple and easy of execution, may nevertheless, if it is employed without precaution, provoke spasm,of the urethra, hrnma- turia, and cystitis of the neck of the bladder. Insufficient in itself, it is of very great utility to perfect the results obtained by other methods. In fine, its mode of action holds the middle place between that of atrophic dilatation, which I have described, and that of true mechanical dilatation, which remains to be spoken of. (b) Rapid Mechanical Dilatation.—In this method dilatation is obtained by means of instruments which, after having traversed the stricture, act in the manner of forceps the blades of which are separated. The dilators devised for this purpose by Michelenaand Rlgaud (Fig. 1333), are composed essentially of Fig. 1333. Rigaud’s dilator. two half cylinders of steel, united by means of small, articulated metallic strips,, and constituting by their union an ordinary sound of variable dimensions. A screw placed at the extremity of the instrument makes it possible to slide the two halves, one upon the other, in the direction of their length ; from this movement erection of the metallic strips results, and separation of the two halves of the sound. The dilator of Perreve is likewise a hollow sound split along its length, but its branches, instead of sliding one upon the other, are separated by means of stylets of different size. It is necessary to have dilators of different size. The complete series is composed of seven num- bers : number one is two millimetres in diameter, number seven is five. The stylets are three in number; they have diameters of two, three, and four millimetres. This instrument, which cannot be denied certain advantages, has the disadvantage of not having a form appropriate to that of the ure- thra. Cylindrical when the halves are side by side, it assumes, as soon as they are separated, an oval form with its large diameter antero-posterior, its small diameter transverse; so that the dilatation, instead of acting in all directions, is exerted only on the lateral walls of the urethra. Charriere lias tried to remedy this imperfection by constructing a dilator with four arms, having an antero-posterior diameter equal to the transverse diameter. But the instrument, even modified in this manner, is not capable of dilating the canal evenly. It has also, as well as the original instrument, a certain num- ber of sharp ridges which wound the walls of the canal, so that at each sit- ting one acts upon a urethra already inflamed by the preceding sittings, thus exposing the patient to most serious accidents. [Fig. 1334 represents the modification of Perreve’s instrument known as Holt’s clivulsor.] With this method may also be classed the procedure devised by Le Fort, and designated by him by the name of immediate progressive dilatation. One begins by engaging in the stricture a flexible bougie which has at its outer