738 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE FEMALE GENITALS. Eia. 1415. divided, tlie bladder being protected from injury by a straight sound which is held in it during this part of the operation. Haemostasis was effected by Huguier by means of curved needles, the point of the needle being broken after its introduction, and a thread thrown around its two ends; another thread in the eye of the needle permitted the ready removal of the latter after some three or four days. 1 hemostatic forceps have been suggested as a simpler and prompter means for the arrest of hemor- rhage. Apart from any other objections, the method of Huguier is liable to be fol- lowed by atresia or stenosis of the cervical canal. The number1 of operations done by Huguier, Chassaignac, and Gallard, was thirty-two; two patients died. One of Gallard’s had a normal pregnancy after the operation. In hypertrophy of the in- termediate portion of the cervix, an opera- tion similar to that of Huguier’s has been resorted to; of course it is attended with much less risk, since the disease involves only that portion of the cervix which is connected with the bladder, and there is, therefore, no danger of injury to the peri- toneum. The accompanying illustration (Fig. 1415), from Schroeder, shows his method of performing a supra-vaginal amputation in cases of malignant disease of the cervix. Supra-vaginal amputation of cervix uteri by Schroeder’s method, showing line of section and mode of introducing sutures ; o, i, internal os uteri. (After Schroeder.) Amputation with the Ecraseur.—The methods of amputating the neck of the womb yet to be described, have, theoretically, this advantage, that all immediate hemorrhage is prevented, and, on the other hand, the disadvantage that primary healing is impossible, the process of cicatrization requiring some weeks; moreover, after some of them, very dangerous or even fatal secondary hemorrhage may occur. The special objections to the chain- ecraseur are that it is difficult to apply the chain accurately to the place at which the section is to be made, and that, it is liable to slip, so that too little of the diseased part will be removed ; on the other hand, if the chain be too high, the bladder or the peritoneal cavity may be opened. To prevent slip- ping downward, Chassaignac passed a trocar through the cervix from behind forward above the place of amputation ; the trocar was then withdrawn, but the canula left, and upon it the chain rested. More recently Verneuil2 has used the canula for the transmission of a flexible bougie, to which two strong waxed threads are attached; these threads are used to draw through the cer- vix the chains of two ecraseurs, by which the neck is amputated in two halves; or a single ecraseur may be used, cutting oft' one-half first, and then the other. The section should be made very slowly; a single turn of the screw every thirty seconds, and toward the close every forty or fifty seconds, is sufficient. Verneuil directs that a two-per-cent, solution of carbolic acid should be gently thrown into the vagina until the fluid returns almost colorless. If hemorrhage occur, iced-water injections, or the thermo-cautery, may be used, and excep- tionally the application of a sponge dipped in an antiseptic and astringent solution, for a few hours only. If the peritoneal cul-de-sac has been injured, sutures are to be applied, and if all the diseased tissue has not been removed 1 Annales de Gyn6cologie, Aoftt, 1885. 2 Archives Gen. de Medecine, 1884.