ULCERATION AND STRICTURE OF TIIE RECTUM. 117 liness and the use of a tartrate-of-iron lotion; and though these patients have been seen from time to time for other ailments, no ulceration or stricture of the rectum has been found to ensue. There are no maladies more bathing to the surgeon than ulcerations and strictures of the rectum, and, as I have before said, they are often quite in- curable, and nothing affords relief save colotomy. It is not quite impossible that, after this operation, the ulceration and stricture may get well, and that then the surgical opening in the loin may be closed ; this I have now in three cases successfully accomplished, but, on the other hand, I have frequently tried it and failed. In cases of circumscribed ulceration, I have great confidence in the efficacy of rest in the recumbent position, and of a wholly, or nearly, fluid diet, and I consider that milk should be the essential element of food in these cases. When the ulceration is deep and contraction has commenced, the disease is much more serious, and a very doubtful prognosis should be given. Still, if only the patient will submit to proper treatment for a lengthened period, a good deal may be done in all cases. In these, rest is even more important than it is in the earliest stage of the affection. Often the ulceration induces such an irritable condition of the rectum that nothing will be retained—neither any injection, suppository, nor ointment; I have found that bismuth and char- coal, taken internally, will generally soon overcome this excessive irritability. Subcarbonate of bismuth may also be tried on the mucous membrane itself by means of insufflation. Iodoform also is a very potent remedy. This, when Fig. 1190. Eectal insufflator. continuously used, may soothe the rectum, relieve pain, and promote healing. As a rule, I prefer ointments to suppositories or injections. The improved American instrument for the application of ointments obviates all difficulties of introduction, and I am sure that this irritates less than other methods of Fig. 1191. Instrument for application of ointments to rectum. medication; all kinds of sedatives, opiates, and astringents may in turn be tried. I have seen the following formula most efficacious: Bismuthi subnitrat., 3ij; Hydrarg. subchloridi, 9ij; Morphise, gr. iij ; Glycerinse, 3ij; Vaselini, ,yj; this is a very sedative application, and sores seem to be benefited by it speedily. Subacetate of lead and milk (3j to f.lj), with belladonna and opium, will be found serviceable; all sorts of astringents may be employed ; rhatany, friar’s