TUBERCULOUS AND SCROFULOUS DISEASE OF TESTIS. 619 chyma of the gland, more or less globular in shape; they are commonly multiple; after a time they coalesce to form a single, irregularly nodulated, branching mass. The cheesy matter is peculiarly elastic until it softens down to form an abscess. The French school follows Laennec and Cruveilhier, who taught that tuberculosis might manifest itself by gray tubercle or by caseous inflammation. Tuberculous deposits, unlike syphilitic, have a preference for the epidi- dymis, are less often found in the substance of the gland, and, when present, are most abundant in the neighborhood of the rete testis, both glands being frequently involved. Syphilitic gummata are deposited in the substance of the testicle, the interstitial tissue between the seminal tubes being their seat. Caseous masses are found in the vas deferens, the epididymis, and the rete testis. The vas deferens, when attacked, is swollen and hard, the nodular masses affecting the duct, not throughout its whole length, but here and there, especially between the external abdominal ring and the testicle, and at its termination at the vesicula seminalis. When divided, a white creamy material may be squeezed out. The epididymis, converted into a caseous mass, may be felt capping the testicle, but more often it feels like an irregular mass, presenting here and there large, hard, bossy swellings, which may be situated indifferently in its upper or lower extremity. The epididymis is surrounded, and its relations with neighboring parts are masked, by adventitious flbi'ous tissue. The crude masses, with their irregular margins surrounded by apparently normal tissue, commonly break down and discharge their softened material, giving rise to fistulae ; but occasionally they undergo a cretaceous change. Reclus finds that the thickened and dilated tubes of the epididymis, when affected by tubercle, may present on section well-defined, regular alveoli, some filled with purulent matter, but others empty. Gosselin applies the term “ eccentric” to those tuberculous deposits which are intermixed with cretaceous material,and which are situated in the cellular tissue outside the vas deferens and epididymis, or in the vas aberrans. Chronic inflammation of the epididymis gives rise to yellow deposits unassociated with deposits of tubercle elsewhere. Fournier has observed a rare condition of the epididymis, which he has called pseudo-tubercular epididymitis. It is apt to occur in the course of a chronic urethral discharge, without any apparent exciting cause. The epidi- dymis may be at the onset subacutely inflamed, or a hard, irregular indura- tion, slightly sensitive when squeezed, may be the first indication of the change noticed. The epididymis is swollen and hard, but is not invaded by large bossy swellings, as it is in tubercular disease; and Reclus attaches importance to the fact that the loop formed by the vas deferens can be traced. The previous history of the patient assists the surgeon in his diagnosis, and the deposit, unlike a syphilitic one, is but little affected by treatment. The prostate is normal, and the patient’s general health is good. Caseous deposits soften here and there, and give a sensation of fluctuation, the skin becoming adherent and livid in color ; and, unless the matter be evacu- ated by the surgeon, they give rise to pain, arid, finally bursting, cause fistulie to form. Caseous tubercular masses differ from gummata in beitlg whiter, softer, more friable, and, as a rule, more easily enucleated from the surround- ing tissue than the syphilitic deposits, which are yellow, firmer, more exten- sive, and more firmly incorporated with the surrounding structures. The body of the gland may become ultimately affected through the extension of the dis- ease along the rete testis, but it may escape altogether, the epididymis being alone involved. In general, tuberculosis attacking a young subject, very small, gray, transparent, hard tubercles are deposited in the testicle itself, in a soft, loose tissue which is found between the seminal tubes. These deposits coalesce