INFLUENCE OF OSSEOUS INFLAMMATIONS ON THE GROWTH OF BONES. 889 it is seen that all the portion of the diaphysis formed since the osteitis, and comprised between the end of the diaphysis indicated by the prominence a and the connecting cartilage d, had from the beginning been drawn backward by muscular contraction. The result of this was a change of direction in the new portion, and the prominence which no doubt gave the limb the appearance of double-knee. Fig. 1435 shows a bending forward of the dia- Fig. 1435. f, femur; r, patella ; t, tibia. The tibia presents a flexion forwards of the diaphysis upon the epiphysis, which is itself slightly luxated behind the femur, a, juxta-epiphyseal sequestral cavity; b, epiphysis ; c, diaphysis ; D, angle pointiug backwards, indicating the displacement of the diaphysis upon the epiphysis. physis of the tibia upon its upper epiphysis. There is a re-entrant angle in front and a projection behind. This is the same lesion as in the preceding figure. When inflammation attacks one hone of a limb-segment with parallel bones, like the leg or forearm, various deformities result, which are expli- cable either by the arrest of development in one of the bones, or by its exces- sive development. In the forearm, for example, when the radius is arrested in its development by an inflammation which destroys the lower connecting cartilage, the ulna, continuing to grow and being held back by its attach- ment at both ends to the radius, is forced to curve or to twist. The two epiphyses are almost fixed, since they are united to the radius which does not grow any more; and the diaphysis, which continues to elongate by ossi- fication of the layers furnished by the connecting cartilages, necessarily takes a sinuous shape. I have shown experimentally1 these different effects of arrest of growth in one of the bones of the leg or forearm, and I have, by partial excision of the. connecting cartilages, reproduced all the deviations which are seen in man in consequence of the forms of osteitis which cause destruction of the connecting cartilages in childhood. In this way the knees may be made to deviate inward or outward, as well as the front and back feet.2 These experiments led me further to practise excision of the con- 1 Traite Experimental et Clinique de la Regeneration des Os. 2 De l’Accroissement Normal et Pathologique des Os. 1872.