946 SCROFULO-TUBERCULOUS AND OTHER STRUCTURAL DISEASES OF BONES. 2 Archives Gen. de Medecine. 1 See page 967, infra. The surface of the bones which are not altogether absorbed, is honey-combed with openings, from which pressure causes drops of blood or a red material to well up. The periosteum which covers them is very vascular, thick, and adherent; when it is detached, laminae of bone are pulled off. The shell of hone which remains appears rugose, and is filled with holes which give it a spongy appearance. The consistence of the bones varies with the degree of the disease. Some- times they are as flexible as a wand, sometimes as soft as a bone which has been decalcified in acid, sometimes as soft as a muscle, or as a pulpy substance in which the finger can penetrate as in the tissue of the spleen, or of a hepatized lung. The knife always cuts them easily. But before they come to resemble rubber-tubes, the bones have remained a long time more or less resistant and elastic, though friable, it is true, and likely to break on the least strain. Kalian has advocated distinguishing; two forms of osteomalacia: one characterized by friability of the bones (Halisteresis fracturosa, psathyra); the other characterized by softness {Halisteresis flexibilis, absatliyra cohcerens, cerea). Such a division cannot be accepted unless it ap- plies to a predominance of the character of flexibility or fragility; for thei’e are found at the same time, and in the same patient, bones which may be bent like a reed, without breaking, until they describe a half circle, and others which break like glass at the least touch, upon the patient’s sneezing, or upon his changing his position in bed. Cases of halisteresis exclusively of the fracturing kind, appear to me to pertain more legitimately to atrophy or idiopathic fragility of the bones.1 The weight of the bones in osteomalacia diminishes simultaneously with their consistence. To what extent? The classical books do not say. Here are some figures taken from the paper of Langendorff and Mommsen. The cranium of the patient, which was at the occiput a centimetre (.39 inch) in thickness, weighed 370 grammes (8 lbs. Av.), including the lower jaw ; while the normal cranium of a man weighs from 800 to 900 grammes (17.6-19.7 lbs. Av.). Of two equal pieces of the humerus, one from a patient with osteomalacia weighed 11.71 grammes (180 gr.); the other, taken from the body of a man of equal age who had died of acute tuberculosis, weighed 13.86 grammes (213 grs.); the mean difference was therefore 15.52 per cent. It cannot be objected, in regard to these weights, that the bone taken for comparison, from a phthisical patient, was ill chosen, because the bones of the phthisical are heavier. The increase in the density of the bones in phthisical patients, to which M. Charpy, director of the anatomical studies at Lyons, has given so much attention, is not constant on the one hand, and, on the other, is observed only in the chronic forms of'phthisis. The diminution of weight in osteomalacia is not constant. Bones may be found heavier in the first periods, and in certain slow forms of osteomalacia which do not pass beyond the first stage of the disease ; for example, in cases analogous to those of Sir James Paget. Further, accoucheurs have noticed that some osteomalacic pelves are very light, whilst others are heavier than usual. Diminution or increase of weight depends upon the form or phase of the disease, at the moment of observation. (2) Deformities of the Skeleton.—The constancy of these is such that they form an integral part of the symptoms of osteomalacia. A disorder which was absolutely free from them would not arouse a suspicion of the disease. Nevertheless, cases have been cited (Goodwin2) in which there were no defor- mities. It is not absolutely impossible that this may be the case in condi- tions where exceptional care is taken, and in a slight osteomalacia. But,