VAGINAL TUMORS. 713 usually of cylindrical, but sometimesof pavement epithelium. Graefe considers the origin of vaginal cysts under four heads: 1, these cysts may come from dila- tations of lymph-vessels ; this form is rare; 2, they may follow oedemas, contu- sions, or effusions of blood in the connective tissue ; such cysts are not of fre- quent occurrence, and they have no epithelial lining ; 3, they may be retention- cysts ; the presence of glands in the vagina, denied by most anatomists, seems to have been established by Von Preuschen and C. Ruge; the cysts thus formed are superficial, and have thin walls; 4, cysts may be formed from a part of Muller’s duct, or from Gaertner’s canal, which is the excretory duct of the Wolffian body, and which remains in some of the inferior animals, but ordinarily atrophies in the human female; this hypothesis applies espe- cially to large, thick-walled cysts.1 The contents of cysts vary ; in some cases the cyst contains a thin, light- yellow fluid, like that of a hydrocele, while in others it is as thick as starch or syrup, opaque, and dark-brown or chocolate-colored. Colpohyperplasia cystica, also called vaginitis vesiculosa, or vaginitis emphy- sematosa, was first described by Winckel from his observing the disease in three pregnant women. The disease is characterized by the occurrence of semi-spherical bodies, from the size of a millet-seed to that of a pea, situated in the vaginal mucous membrane; they have a grayish color, are placed upon a swelled, light-red base, and are irregularly grouped. Puncture causes the escape of gas, sometimes quite audible, and the collapse of the cyst; the escape of gas may be followed by that of a few drops of serous fluid. This disease has also been found in the non-pregnant. The origin of the cysts has not been satisfactorily explained, nor has the source of the gas in them. It has been suggested that the latter arises from the decomposition of trimethylamin in the secretion of glands whose efferent ducts have become obstructed. By some the presence of trimethylamin in the vaginal secretion has been denied, but this denial is an error, as the experiments of Zweifel2 conclusively show. The cysts found in colpohyperplasia cystica need no special treatment, for they disappear with the vaginitis with which they are associated; for this, antiseptic injections have been recommend- ed, and carbolized water, or a solution of corrosive sublimate or of sulphate of cop- per, may be used. Pedunculated cysts may be removed by ex- cision with the galvano-cautery wire, or with the ligature and scissors. The treatment of other cysts has usually been by puncture, but this, even when followed by injection of a solution of iodine, does not cure, the cysts refilling; incision and cauterization ot the cyst-wall with nitrate ot silver offers more hope ot cure, but still is not in all cases successful; the same may be said as to the treatment by seton or by drainage, and, even ’if a cure follows, it is protracted. Extirpa- tion of the cyst is the most reliable means of treatment. But if the cyst-wall be thin, or if the cyst be very high, Hegarand Ivalten- badl recommend Schroedei S method, this Removal of vaginal cyst by Scliroeder’s method. 1 Dr, Robert Watts (American Journal of Obstetrics, vol. xiv.) has reported a case of vaginal cyst developed from Gaertner’s canal. ‘ Archiv f. Gynakologie, Band xviii. Heft 3.