453 VITAL AND ORGANIC LESIONS OF THE URETHRA. a cicatricial stricture may also be produced in consequence of ulceration of any kind which has destroyed the mucous membrane, and has attacked the sub- mucous tissues. The chancroid very frequently causes this form of stricture. Ulceration in acute urethritis is, on the contrary, extremely rare, almost always superficial, and the resulting stricture, if any, not very pronounced. Pathological Anatomy.—The pathological anatomy of stricture of the ure- thra was completely unknown to the ancients, and all the manifestations which characterize retention of urine were charged to caruncles or camosities, situated in the neck of the bladder or along the canal of the urethra. These ideas were replaced, after the first years of the eighteenth century, by the theory of cicatricial contraction, following ulceration of an inflammatory nat ure which had destroyed the mucous membrane and a part of the subjacent tis- sues—a theory contradicted by facts, and for which modern authors have sub- stituted, in the last forty years, more exact notions about the nature of the lesions which give rise to strictures. I will consider separately each of the forms of stricture which I have admitted, and will take up first the inflam- matory or organic stricture. (1) Inflammatory Strictures.—In its mildest degree, and in cases in which the inflammation has attacked only the mucous membrane and a very slight thickness of the subjacent tissues, the stricture consists in a scarcely appre- ciable diminution in the calibre of the urethra, which is the result of a very slight induration of the submucous tissue, causing a trifling elevation of the mucous membrane. The little ridge thus formed usually occupies the anterior third of the penis, and only rarely extends over the whole of the cir- cumference of the canal. It may be single, but ordinarily there are two or three such ridges (Fig. 1325), which are separated by a space of one or two cen- timetres, and in the interval between which the urethra appears absolutely healthy. The mucous membrane which covers them is sometimes free and mobile; sometimes adherent, pale, a little depressed, and slightly puckered. But even this is not a true stricture. To produce this, it is necessary that inflammation should invade the urethral wall in its entire thickness, and cause an infiltration of plastic fluid, often even of blood, in the spongy tissue. This infiltration, which is especially abundant over a space of one or two cen- timetres, and which extends, gradually diminishing, in front of and behind this space, becomes organized as the result of a process similar to that of cic- atrization, and in its contraction presses together and condenses the tissues with which it is closely united. A stricture once established in this way, the following are the alterations which will be met with in a urethra which has been split open lengthwise (Fig. 1326). The canal presents a more or less pronounced diminution in cal- ibre over an extent of three or four millimetres. But these are not really the limits of the stricture. From the most constricted point, and for a distance •of about a centimetre in front of and behind this point, the narrowing extends, insensibly diminishing until the canal resumes its normal calibre, in such a way that the stricture, as a whole, presents the appearance of two cones, the two apices of which are blended, or are united by a neck several milli- metres long. The posterior cone is ordinarily more expanded than the ante- rior, in consequence of the excentric pressure exercised by the stream of urine against the walls of the canal; and sometimes it is even transformed into a sort of pocket. The mucous membrane which covers the constricted por- tion is pale, thickened, and firmly adherent to the subjacent tissues, from which it is impossible to separate it; it is altogether inextensible when an attempt is made to stretch it transversely. The external surface is often smooth; at other times it has a velvety, uneven aspect, which results from the considerable epithelial proliferation which takes place at this point. This