APPENDIX. 1110 together, for economy in steam and care of machinery, and should be placed at the rear of the grounds, with an entrance from the back street. The housing of kitchen and laundry servants should not be over the work- rooms of the two departments, and if possible a separate place should be provided for each. This should never be in the administration-building, but there may be an annex, in which the servants can have rooms, over base- ment and first-floor offices, etc. The dead-house is naturally placed in a building with the autopsy-room, and the rooms of one may be above those of the other; they should be pro- perly fitted for their purposes with tiled floors and walls, marble slabs, a ventilating autopsy-table, and a good skylight. For the nurses, the best plan is to have a separate “ home,” in which each nurse shall have her own bedroom. The superintendent of nurses should also have her rooms there, and the building should contain a class-room, a library, a pleasant sitting-room, a dining-room and kitchen, a sick-room, bath-rooms, etc. In default of such a building the nurses are usually placed in rooms next the wards, or in the upper rooms of the “head-houses” of the pavilions; in which case the rooms should be of good height, and the roofs should be built for proper coolness in summer. Nurses should not be placed in the administration-building. In smaller hospitals, much ingenuity can be used in adapting the more or less limited space to all their various requirements, but usually due regard may be given to the proper relation of things that should not be put together. A good example of a small hospital may be seen in Figs. 1525 and 1526, show- ing plans of the Barnes Hospital in Washington. Ventilating, Warming, and Lighting.—The “ natural ventilation” of hos- pital wards, which has been largely provided for in what has been described as proper for their form and construction, includes also the air-supply, and relates to the means employed in warm weather, when advantage is taken of the natural movements of the air, without the use of heat or other arti- ficial means. The favoring conditions required are best afforded in a large ward or room of the prescribed width, with opposite windows, through which and the doors, when open, the air may move freely in and out. The transom windows, and such appliances as the “Sheringham valves,” placed near the ceiling, arranged to deflect the air upward and prevent draughts from falling upon the patients, are useful. Fresh air may be introduced near the floor, behind the head of each bed, through perforated-brick or larger openings in the wall, with perforated metal screens on the inner surface to break up the currents of air. For the purposes of natural ventilation, use may be made also of openings in the upper part of the walls, or of the ridge ventilation of one-story wards; or of openings in the ceiling leading to a ventilating chim- ney, which has the advantage of affording means of applying heat to aid in the process of extraction. The amount of air-space prescribed for each bed, is based partly upon the requirements for natural ventilation; and it bears an important relation to all the questions of warming, ventilating, and the necessary air-supply, when the natural inlets to the ward must be closed or little used, as in cold climates. It is difficult to change the air in a room, with comfort to the occupants, of'tener than three times in an hour, and it will naturally be less, even in well-ventilated wards. I)e Chaumont says that the air-supply should not be less than 4000 cubic feet per bed, per hour, in ordinary cases of sickness, and this would re- quire an air-space of 1333 feet per bed, which agrees with the rule already given in regard to the construction of wards, as the space above 12 feet should not he reckoned. Billings defines ventilation as including, besides the securing a