OVARIAN CYSTS AND CYSTOMATA. 793 unusually bland fluid; otherwise nothing is more usual in the history of ovarian disease than for peritonitis and death to result from such an acci- dent. Should the fluid he thick and irritating, as that contained in polycysts usually is, fatal peritonitis is an almost certain result. More often, in case of rupture, the contents are discharged into neighboring organs. Here pre- liminary adhesions form between the cyst-wall and the organ adjoining, and ulcerative perforation occurs from pressure at the point of union. Thus, in recorded cases, the cyst-contents have escaped into the intestines, the bladder, the Fallopian tubes, and the vagina, below, and upwards into the stomach, the pleural cavity, and the lungs. Occasionally, extensive hemorrhages occur within the cyst-cavity, an accident most commonly seen in papillary cystoma, from the great vascu- larity of the papillae. Traumatic causes and twisting of the pedicle also lead to this unfortunate complication. If the latter occurs slowly and gradually, partial or complete atrophy of the cyst may result, or the pedicle may give way, and the tumor become free in the abdominal cavity, or form attachments to other organs and continue to grow; if rapidly, the veins of the pedicle are chiefly affected, the return of blood from the tumor is inter- rupted, and the intracystic hemorrhage is greater or less in accordance with the size of vessels that give way under the pressure. Often the cyst undergoes inflammation, either from causes affecting its nutrition, or from accidents or injuries from without. This may produce ulcerative perforation of the cyst-wall with consequent escape of its contents, or a puriform condition of the cyst-fluid. In the first case, septic peritonitis at once results. In the second, gradual septicaemia, which is frequently fatal unless ovariotomy is promptly performed. . Where none of these changes occur in the cyst, death sometimes results from simple asphyxia, due to prolonged pressure of the ascending mass upon the thoracic viscera. Symptoms.—The symptoms of ovarian cysts are both rational and physical. The important rational signs differ with the position and gradual develop- ment of the tumor, whether pelvic or abdominal, and vary greatly in dif- ferent individuals. Usually, when the cyst is small, its presence is unnoticed, hut often there is a sense of weight and bearing down in the lower abdomen, vesical tenes- mus, and pain in micturition, some interference with the functions of the rectum (although this is rare), and frequently dysmenorrhoea. Menorrhagia or metrorrhagia is usual. If the cyst be adherent to the pelvic walls, or inflamed, all these symptoms are aggravated, with the addition of much pelvic pain, often reflected to neighboring parts of the body, as usual in ovarian neuralgias. As fluid accumulates within the cyst, its adhesions become more distended and tender, defecation is painful, locomotion and every movement of the body is attended with discomfort, and dysmenorrhoea becomes a prominent source of complaint. In these cases the patient rapidly becomes an invalid, and I have on two occasions been compelled to remove inflammatory cysts no larger than an orange, on account of the constant and intense discomfort which they caused. As the cyst, when unimpeded by these conditions, rises into the abdominal cavity, the symptoms which it causes are quite different. In the majority of cases, the patient now for the first time becomes aware of its presence, either as “a lump in the side,” or by the commencing abdominal enlargement. Hence, at this stage, the surgeon is first consulted in all those instances in which the early development has been free from pelvic discomfort. The prominent symptoms are now due to pressure of the enlarging mass