INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE FEMALE GENITALS. 686 the interest of the child or mother; in cases in which immediate delivery is not required, the forceps may he so used as to save the perineum from a tear which would occur in natural labor. Considering in general the etiology of this injury, it may be said that, in the great majority of cases, it is due to too rapid delivery of the foetus—deli- very before the tissues have had time to undergo physiological softening and stretching. Varieties.—Lacerations of the perineum may be complete or incomplete. In the complete form the tear extends from the vulvar to the anal opening, and involves the rectal wall, usually for from about a half to three-quarters of an inch—rarely, according tollegar, an inch and a half; in the incomplete, the tear may extend half way to the anus, or as far as its sphincter; sometimes only the skin is torn; in some cases the perineum is perforated, the anal and vulvar sphincters being uninjured—the so-called central laceration ; in others the tear is in the posterior part of the perineum, and the injury extends through the anal sphincter and the recto-vaginal wall. It should be borne in mind that, as pointed out many years ago by the late Dr. Dewees,1 and more recently by Dr. J. Matthews Duncan, the perineum, though apparently perfect at the close of labor, may have been subjected to such injurious pressure by the long delay of the head at the vulva, that sloughing afterward occurs, and that in a few days a more or less complete laceration is evident. Frequency.—According to Kleinwachter,2 this accident occurs in between 15 and 40 per cent, of primiparse, and in from 1 to 10 per cent, of multiparse. Treatment.—The prophylaxis of this injury belongs so exclusively to ob- stetrics that it will not be here considered. The curative treatment includes the immediate or primary, and the secondary operation; the former, appropri- ately called perineorraphy, is an operation done within at most sixteen hours after the injury has occurred, and the latter, perineoplasty, is one done when involution of the sexual organs has taken place, six or eight weeks after labor. The intermediate operation, that is, one done between the fifth and tenth days, has been rejected from its liability to be followed by septicaemia. I. Perineorraphy.—The majority of obstetric authorities hold that a torn perineum should be, in all but exceptional cases, stitched as soon as practicable after the injury, or that, at least, the operation should not be delayed more than sixteen hours. The reasons for adopting the immediate operation are the serious hemorrhage which may occur from the wound, the risk of septic in- fection taking place through the raw surfaces, and the slight probability of spontaneous cure of the injury. The operator will need a disinfectant solution—one part of corrosive subli- mate to 5000 of water, for example—sponges, a pair of scissors for trimming off any ragged projections of torn tissue, needles, needle-forceps, material for sutures, and perforated shot with shot compressors, if this mode should be chosen for fastening the stitches. Horse-hair, silk-thread, silkworm-gut, cat- gut, and silver and iron wire have been used successfully for sutures ; probably silver wire has been oftener employed than any other material, though the continuous catgut suture, used as will be described in perineoplasty, presents many advantages. If no vaginal or rectal stitches are necessary, an ordinary large sewing needle, about an inch and a half in length, straight, and properly annealed, answers the purpose as far as external stitches are con- 1 System of Midwifery. 2 Real-Eucyklopadie der gesammten Heilkunde. Bd. iii.