993 SARCOMATA OF BONE. or the centre of the bone. Central tumors have a bony, or an osteo-fibrous shell, which is wanting in periosteal tumors, in which there is from the first only a fibrous shell furnished by the periosteum, which is usually consecu- tively involved. The consistence of these tumors is usually firm and elastic. They creak under the blade of the knife. On section, the surface appears smooth and shining. The color is light gray in some places, and rosy at others, and extravasations of blood are sometimes seen. When one of these tumors is left for some time exposed to the air, a little milky juice can be obtained by scraping. It is not unusual to find in the tumor bony trabeculae, radiating or in the form of needles. Microscopical Examination.—These tumors are made up of longer or shorter fusiform cells ; those with small cells are the softest. Myeloplaxes are found in them, as accessory elements. They undergo cystic degeneration more rarely than other neoplasms, and are but slightly vascular. Encephaloid Sarcomata.—Synonyms: Round-celled sarcomata; embryo- plastic tumors; globo-celluiar sarcomata; granulation-tissue sarcomata (Billroth). Situation.—Encephaloid sarcomata are situated in the extremities of the long bones, in the short bones of the foot and of the hand, and oftener than the fasciculated sarcomata in the diaphyses of the large long bones. Their shape is globular; they are smooth ; those which are developed at the expense of the central canal have an enveloping capsule, partly bony and partly fibrous; those which arise in the periosteum have a fibrous capsule which is soon invaded. When these tumors are cut, the surface of the section pre- sents an appearance which has been likened to the milt of fish, or to the cerebral substance. Exposure to the air makes it possible to collect on the surface a much more abundant juice than in the case of the preceding tumors. Microscopical Examination.—The fundamental element is the round, embry- onic cell, the size of the white corpuscles of the blood. As accessory elements we meet with connective tissue of the ordinary kind, or reticulated tissue— which has led Rindfleisch to give this variety the name of the lymphadenoid form—or a very vascular tissue determining a form called alveolar by Bill- roth. These tumors often undergo cystic and telangiectatic degeneration, and are the seat of interstitial hemorrhages. I shall now enter upon the study of conditions common to all the sarcomata. Condition of the Neighboring Articulations.—Gillette considered integrity of the joints as nearly constant, and as constituting a good diagnostic sign. Dr. Poinsot, who agrees in this with S. W. Gross, of Philadelphia, opposed this assertion at the Society of Surgery. The joints are affected in some cases, and more frequently by central than by periosteal sarcomata. At the begin- ning there are found more or less sanguinolent effusions. The cartilage resists a long time, but sometimes it is perforated. At other times it is detached in its totality, and the neoplasm, penetrating the peripheral parts, pushes out- growths into the interior of the joints. In some cases both articular extremi- ties are involved. Spontaneous Fractures.—Spontaneous fractures often occur in cases of osteo- sarcoma of the long bones. Two cases may present themselves: 1. The bone has already been invaded by a periosteal sarcoma, and the two fractured ex- tremities are lost in the midst of the "mass of the neoplasm ; 2. A central sar- coma has rarefied the bone, a fracture has taken place, and at the end of a few days a sort of expansion of the neoplasm occurs between the fragments, which expansion may be mistaken for callus in the process of formation. These fractures very rarely consolidate ; sometimes, however, callus may be formed, but it rarely comes to completion. The limb is removed, or the patient dies vol. vi.—63