792 OVARIAN AND UTERINE TUMORS. contents, divides the fluid contents into two distinct groups, mucous and albuminous. The elements of the first will be found predominant in young cysts with thin fluid, those of the second in the contents of old colloid cysts. (1) The first class consists mainly of mucous elements, variously altered, formed during a process of colloid degeneration, which, in reality, is a mucous metamorphosis, and in the course of which are developed— Mucine, insoluble (but hydrated) in water. Muco-peptone, easily soluble in water. Colloid substance, made turbid by acetic acid. Matter of colloid corpuscles, precipitated by acetic acid, soluble in dilute alcohol. (2) The albuminous group contains albumen in the two forms of free albu- men, and albuminate of sodium; the latter eoagulable only by acids. In col- loid tumors, albumen undergoes a gradual alteration into, first, paralbumen, eoagulable by acids, but not by heat; then into metalbumen, not eoagulable by acids ; and finally into albumino-peptone. This is analogous to the pro- cess of digestion. The elements of this group are therefore— Albumen. Paralbumen,) . , , , c ,T . y transitional states ol pure albumen. Metalbumen. j 1 Albumino-peptone. All of these contain traces of sulphur, and are precipitated from free solutions by neutral metallic salts. A clear and concise digest of Eichwald’s views is given by Thomas.1 The microscopy of ovarian cyst contents was carefully studied ten years ago by Koeberle2 and Thornton ;3 and has been more exhaustively investigated of late by Drysdale4 and Garrigues.5 Drysdale still maintains the value and diagnostic importance of the “ granular ovarian cell,” long associated with his name; while Garrigues thinks that the “most important elements in regard to diagnosis are columnar epithelial cells seen in side view,” and adds that “Bennett’s corpuscles, Drysdale’s corpuscles, nuclei with dark granules, and cholesterin, have no diagnostic value.” The issue of this controversy is still undecided ; and for the earlier and more elaborate history of the subject the reader is referred to the standard works of Wells, Atlee, and Peaslee. Course and Natural History.—The tendency of ovarian cystomata, if unchecked, is to grow more or less rapidly until the whole abdominal cavity is filled, after which they “ distend its walls, encroach upon the thoracic cavity, press up^the abdominal and thoracic viscera, and finally cause death by interfering with the nutrition of the body and the functions of the vital organs” (Williams).6 This, broadly stated, is the rule; but so various are the changes which affect the development of ovarian cysts, that, in practice, the rule is less important than the exceptions. Interruption to the growth of the cyst may occur from several causes; spontaneous absorp- tion, with rupture of the cyst-walls, is known to have occurred in a limited number of cases. Years ago, Dr. Tilt, of London, collected and published between 70 and 80 of these cases, of which the majority were either cured or improved. When the rupture occurs into the peritoneal cavity, this, however, can only be true of parovarian cysts, or of ovarian cystomata with 1 Op. cit., p. 686. 3 Med. Times and Gazette, 1876. 6 Am. Journal of Obst. 1882. 2 Archiv fiir Gyn. 1875. 4 Trans. Am. Gyn. Society, 1877 and 1882. B Reynolds’s System of Medicine, vol. v.