SARCOMATA OF BONE. 995 (b) Symptoms depending on the Proximity of a Joint.—The swelling assumes a peculiar shape which has been compared to that of an enormous leg of mutton. The limb, or the limb-segment, is in a position analogous to that which is assumed in cases of arthritis. There is a greater freedom of movement than would, at first thought, be supposed. It is important, however, to be careful not to confound movements of the joint with those which might result from a fracture near the articulation. (c) Symptoms peculiar to a Tumor of the Diaphysis.—The shape of the tumor may be globular, if the tumor is lateral; fusiform, if the tumor has in- volved the whole circumference of the diaphysis; club-shaped, if the tumor is near the epiphysis. In a patient fifteen years old, on whom I practised, at the Croix-Rousse Hospital, disarticulation of the left thigh for sarcoma of the diaphysis, the whole shaft was involved and was transformed into an enor- mous sarcomatous mass. On section, the two connecting cartilages were seen to constitute a barrier above and below. The consistence is hard to estimate on account of the layers of muscles. The neighboring joints are completely free. If the tumor is situated in a part of a limb containing two bones, the unaffected bone may be pushed aside, luxated, or consecutively implicated. (3) Stage of Cachexia and Infection.—It is to be noticed that this stage usu- ally coincides with that of ulceration. Elevations are formed upon the tumor; the distended skin becomes adherent, thinned, and assumes a purple color. A slough forms, ulceration succeeds this, and sarcomatous excrescences protrude. At this time various hemorrhages may supervene, either from the ulcera- tion of the skin, or from the sarcomatous excrescences. Fever is lighted up, and the patient rapidly grows weak under the influence of septicsemic complications. In extremely rare cases, abscesses have been seen to develop in the neighborhood. Then emaciation comes on,and the patient has an earthy, sub-icteric complexion, and dies. Death may occur from hectic, from hemor- rhage, from septicaemia, or from generalization of the affection. Generali- zation is especially apt to occur in the lungs, and this occurrence is sometimes revealed by haemoptysis, but often nothing would lead one to suspect it. These latent pulmonary lesions are sometimes hastened by operations under- taken for the removal of the tumor. When secondary masses are present in other organs, peculiar symptoms will be found according to the organ in- volved. Recurrence after operation may take place : in the operation-wound, in the cicatrix after healing of the wound, at a point higher up the limb, or in internal organs. The latter is not a recurrence but a generalization. Lym- phatic involvement of a sarcomatous nature is said to be rare. Some sur- geons even find in this absence of adenopathy a sign by which sarcomata may be diagnosticated from other varieties of malignant tumor. The obser- vation is correct; but the fact must not be lost sight of, that, when the skin is involved by the neoplasm, and ulcerated, swelling of the lymphatic glands is the rule. Course of Bone-Sarcomata.—Sarcomata of the periosteum seem to progress by interrupted stages; central sarcomata have a more continuous course. The duration of life, without surgical operation, has varied from two to forty-six months. The most malignant tumors seem to be the encephaloid. Melanotic sarcomata of the bones are usually seen in the stage of secondary cancer, from generalization; but in some cases the bone-tissue is invaded by continuity. Thus, in an old woman on whom I practised disarticulation at the ankle-joint for a melanotic sarcoma of the foot, the starting-point of which was the skin on the dorsum, the greater part of the bones of the tarsus were infiltrated with melanotic nodules.