SCROFULO-TUBERCULOUS AFFECTIONS OF BONES. 915 on successive destruction of the parts involved, either in the shape of necrosed fragments or in the shape of more or less voluminous sequestra. This affection may then be considered as an ulcerating osteitis, in this sense : that ulceration or disintegration of the portions of bone attacked by necro- biosis is its most prominent phenomenon.” At. Ranvier had given, as the characteristic sign of caries, pre-existing granulo-fatty degeneration of the bone-corpuscles. M. Ollier demonstrated that these alterations of the cor- puscles were consecutive and not pre-existent to the inflammation of the bone-tissue. There is nothing to be changed in the remarkable description of caries which M. Ollier has given. The question of its nature can alone be presented in a different way. I shall conflne myself to presenting the arguments which at the present time seem to favor connecting caries with osseous tuberculosis, and its admission to the number of those affections of the bones to which I propose to give the name of tuberculous osteopathies. The differential sign derived from the rarefaction or eburnation of the tissue of sequestra lias no value, as we have already seen. If the sequestrum is porous in caries, this depends on the fact that the disease has developed upon prepared soil, one already rarefied. Caries almost always shows itself in the articular extremities of bones, in consequence of a chronic affection of Fig. 1449. Section showing the lesions of caries. A, trabeculffi of bone bathed in pus which has flowed out, leaving them bare ; D, B, zone of tuberculous infiltration, the trabeculae are slightly condensed ; C, C, rarefied and hvpertemic bone-tissue. (After Ch. Nglaton } the corresponding joint. The wasting influence of this inflammation, as well as the immobilization of the limb demanded by pain or by treat- ment, causes simple rarefaction, or rarefaction with liypercemia of the epi- physes. This rarefaction explains at the same time the tendency to diffu- sion of the tuberculous principle in caries, and the porous condition of its sequestra, which preserve a certain vitality in the midst of the fungous tissue which surrounds and penetrates them.1 The clinical course and the macroscopic lesions being the same in caries and in tuberculous affections of the bones, we must look to histology and to experimentation for proofs of the tuberculous nature of the former. Histology has discovered tuberculous nodules in caries. Here is a microscopic preparation (Fig. 1450), borrowed from M. Du bar.2 1 Ollier, Vascularity des s^questres (Diet. Encycl., etc., Art. Carie) ; Traitd de la R^g^n^ration des Os. 2 Op. cit.