427 EXPLORATION OF THE URETHRA AND BLADDER. the thighs of the patient, and by exercising a very light pressure upon the instrument. Under normal conditions, the third stage of catheterization with a curved instrument blends with the second, of which it is the uninterrupted con- tinuation. So it is sufficient, under these conditions, to continue the rocking movement and the propulsion, in order to cause the catheter to pass through the prostatic portion of the urethra and to make it enter the bladder. Fig. 1314. — The most delicate stage of catheterization with a curved- instrument corresponds with the passage of the catheter through the curved portion of the canal; so that it may not be useless to point out just here tbe difficulties most frequently met with, and the way to overcome them. We shall return here- after to special cases. It may happen that, at the moment when the handle of the catheter is lowered, its beak, having pressed the bulb too far down, pushes before it the walls of the canal, the opening of which is thus closed. In such a case the instrument must be withdrawn a little, and the rocking movement be begun again. At the same time the left hand is set free, as it is no longer needed to support the penis, and it may be used to aid in this manoeuvre. It is to be placed under the scrotum, and the fingers, pressing on the convexity of the catheter through the perineum, furnish a point of support upon which it turns as on a pivot at the moment when the handle is lowered, so that its beak is elevated and enters the curved portion of the canal. (Fig. 1316.) In persons with considerable fat, it not rarely happens that at the moment when the catheter is lowered it is caught against the upper wall of the canal anti stopped. In such a case the manoeuvre spoken of in connection with exploratory sounding, and which consists in press- ing the soft parts of the pubes firmly down so as to relax the suspensory ligament of the penis, will make it easy to engage the beak of the catheter. Finally, when the instrument is stopped in the prostatic portion of the