1062 ORTHOPAEDIC SURGERY. Lateral curvature below the fourth dorsal vertebra consists generally in the formation of two curves, an upper or dorsal curve, and a lower or lum- bar curve; but although it is convenient to thus distinguish the two curves bv the terms dorsal and lumbar, these descriptive titles are not always accurate, for the upper curve may extend below the dorsal region and include one or more of the lumbar vertebrae, or again the lumbar curve may include some of the lower dorsal vertebrae. It is this variation in the length of the curves which gives rise to such a marked difference in the external characters of cases of lateral curvature ; to describe all the varieties which the deformity may assume would be impossible, but an examination of the condition presented in three types of the affection will give a fairly repre- sentative analysis of the changes which result from curvature of the spine below the fourth dorsal vertebra. The three conditions of deformity most frequently met with, differ as to the length of the curves in that, in the first, the upper curve is longer than the lower; in the second, the proportions are reversed, the lower curve being longer than the upper; and in the third, the curves are about equal in length. These three classes of cases show certain differences in their external characters: in each the curvature of the spine alters considerably the shape of the trunk, for the vertebral column, like the keel of a ship, is the foundation of the structure, but in the two classes which present an unequal length of the curves the changes are most marked, and of these two the greater deformity results in the first class, in which the upper curve is larger than the lower. 1. A case of lateral curvature in which a long upper curve to the right side and a short lower curve to the left have been formed, Fig. 1502. is represented in Fig. 1502; the most obvious change, and the one that first attracts notice, is ' the want of symmetry presented by the contour of the body, so that the outlines of the two sides are markedly different, and on neither is the natural shape of the body preserved. On the right side the wall of the thorax is unnaturally bowed out, whilst the hollow of the Hank is abnormally deepened; on the left the whole side is flattened, and the outline exhibits a shallow curve from the arm to the hip; the right shoulder is also higher than the left, and the right hip more prominent. This disturbance of the due proportions of the trunk is caused chiefly by displacement of the ribs, and a consequent alteration in the shape of the thorax ; in reviewing the pathological anatomy of lateral curvature it was noticed that the transverse processes of the “ rotated” vertebrae were on the convex side directed backwards, and on the con- cave side thrown forwards; in the dorsal region the altered direction of the transverse processes throws back the ribs on the convex side of the curve, causing their angles to bulge out posteriorly, whilst their shafts and sternal extremities are upper curve. drawn backwards, giving rise to a depression of the walls of the thorax in front. On the concave side of the curve the reverse conditions exist, the angles of the ribs are carried forwards so that the posterior wall of the chest is flattened, the shafts of the ribs are pushed forwards, the costal cartilages become bent, and an undue prominence of the thorax is the result. The condition of displacement here