336 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE BLADDER AND PROSTATE. for the purpose of covering in the protruding bladder, but further with the- view of providing some sort of receptacle for the urine. From a careful study of the results which have accrued from the practice of both these methods, it seems probable that most relief will eventually be obtained by their combination. One or other can only be regarded as a partial proceed- ing, for in the former no provision is made for the covering and protection of the mucous membrane, whilst in the latter, however perfectly integument from neighboring parts may be arranged so as to complete a receptacle for the urine, still in the absence of any valvular or muscular arrangement by means of which the contents may be retained or expelled at will, a state of incontinence must remain, which is only imperfectly provided for by artificial contrivances. It will be proper now to consider more in detail what may be regarded as the typical procedures in each of the two classes, which represent the opera- tive means at present at our disposal for remedying the various degrees of extroversion. The only instance I know of in which the attempt to divert the urine into- the rectum was to any extent successful, is one recorded by Mr. Simon,1 who, in this case, by means of threads passed from the ureters into the bowel, succeeded in establishing a free communication between them. Although a considerable quantity of urine made its way by the new route into the rectum, a portion of it escaped as before; nor does it appear to have been possible to prevent this. Hence the operation can only be regarded as hav- ing been partially successful. "For a similar object a seton was used by Mr. Lloyd,2 but with a fatal result, from injury to the recto-vesical pouch of peritoneum. With the view ot avoiding as far as possible, the last-mentioned risk, Mr. Llolmes3 has pro- posed establishing the communication by means of a pair of screw-forceps,, by which pressure can be exercised on the bladder and rectum. By screw- ing up the instrument, these two points are brought together, through the compression of the intervening tissues, and in this ingenious way an opening- is established by the formation of a slough. In the case, however, in which Mr. Holmes adopted this method, there seems to have been a difficulty in keeping the new route open, and urine continued to flow over the pubes in considerable quantities. More recently, Mr. Thomas Smith, of St. Bartholomew’s Hospital, has- recorded a case4 in which he attempted to establish a permanent connection between the ureters and the posterior surface of the colon. Though with considerable difficulty, he succeeded in effecting the communication on one- side, but when making a similar attempt on the other, a fatal result ensued. The following passage from Mr. Smith’s communication, having a general bearing upon this class of operations, may be quoted:— The kidneys seem to have been the organs to suffer by the operation, the secreting structure on one side, the left, being entirely removed by suppuration, while the func- tion of the right kidney was so quickly and seriously affected as to put an end to life within three days. The more rapid implication of the kidney in my own case was probably due to the more direct communication between the cavity of the bowel and the pelvis of that organ. The whole length of the ureter intervened in Mr. Simon’s case between the bowel and the kidney, whereas in my patient there were but two inches of ureter. In connection with this subject, it may be worth considering how far the function of the kidney might be influenced by the introduction of intestinal gas 1 Lancet, vol. ii. 1852. 2 Ibid., vol. ii. 1851. 3 Surgical Treatment of Children’s Diseases, p. 148. 4 St. Bartholomew’s Hospital Reports, vol. xv.