1079 LATERAL CURVATURE OF THE SPINE. of the muscles on one side of the spine, with a depression at the corresponding spot on the other side; and together with these external evidences of curvature, there will be compression of the intervertebral disks on the concave sides of the curves. There may be present with the local defect some interference with the general health, the most frequent fault being irregularity of the menstrual function ; when this or any other form of malady exists, it must of course re- ceive attention. As to the condition of the spine, the chief points to be gained are restoration of the normal state of the intervertebral disks and replacement to the straight line of the bodies of the vertebrae ; to meet these indications, the following course of treatment is generally applicable. The spine should be douched daily with cold water, and afterwards be well rubbed with a rough towel, and shampooed for about ten minutes with the hand; local circulation is thus stimulated, and nutrition is promoted. Standing about, or sitting on a stool or chair with a straight back, should be strictly prohibited (in either of these positions, leaning to one side or the other is certain to occur), and a chair with the back sloping to about half a right angle with the seat should always be used. All employments or games in which one arm is used more than the other must be interdicted, but a moderate indulgence in such pursuits as equally give exercise to the two sides of the body is to be recommended ; rowing, or rather sculling, is an excellent although perhaps somewhat man- nish exercise, and swimming also is beneficial. Walking is the most desir- able of all exercises, but nothing must be done which produces fatigue, and the recumbent position should always be assumed for about an hour after exercise. Such accomplishments as piano-playing need not be altogether given up, but these practices must be followed early in the morning when the spine has been strengthened by the night’s rest. In this early stage of deformity, it is generally considered that mechanical support of the spine is not required, but as to this point no universal rule should be followed: when the curves present are not of any great length, a mechanical appliance is not necessary, but when several consecutive vertebrae are displaced,it is advisable to order a light corset stiffened with small steel bands, which gives some support to the spine and limits lateral movement of the column. The general directions given thus far are intended to fulfil the following purposes: to permit of sufficient use of the spine to keep it in healthy action; to check unequal com- pression of the intervertebral bodies ; and lastly to allow those bodies which are deficiently elastic the opportunity of gradually recovering their normal state of expansion. The commencing stage of lateral curvature is not unfrequently treated by complete recumbency ; no doubt, constant lying on the back relieves the intervertebral disks from all risk of compression, but I believe that a limited use of any part, which is not affected with in- flammatory action but merely in a condition of atonic degeneration, is most beneficial to the disordered tissues. It is sufficiently familiar to all sur- geons that disuse is accompanied by wasting; to leave the intervertebral disks in a state of sluggish repose, is not calculated to induce the restoration of their natural elasticity. A contrary method of treatment is the employ- ment of free extension of the spine, either by causing the subject to swing on a trapeze, or by some other method of suspension: this procedure is unadvis- able, as it produces too great stretching of the fibrous tissue; and it is not better contrived to restore the elasticity of the intervertebral bodies, than would be constant expansion to renew that of a weakened spring. When lateral curvature is not arrested by the above measures, or when it is presented for treatment in a more advanced condition than that just con- sidered, it is necessary to employ some form of mechanical treatment. The most convenient method of using instrumental treatment is by means of an appliance fixed to the body, which shall exert a constant pressure upon the