327 RUPTURE OF THE BLADDER. the explanation being suggested, that in these instances the coats of the bladder have undergone some change by which their power of resistance has been sensibly diminished. I have recorded a case1 in which there were good grounds for believing that the injury wras caused in this way:— The patient, a young man, had been suffering from retention of urine for some days. When admitted into the Liverpool Infirmary, he was in a state of collapse from which he never rallied. A catheter was introduced into his bladder immediately after his admission, but only a few drops of blood-stained fluid escaped. At the post- mortem examination, a rupture was found in the posterior wall of the bladder, com- municating with the peritoneal cavity. The edges of the opening were covered by lymph, and the rent measured, when not stretched, an inch and a half in length. There were also signs of peritonitis. Though from tlie history of the patient there was no doubt that he had suffered from prolonged retention, no sensible diminution of the dimensions of the urethra could be discovered. Dr. Gouley2 records a case in which rupture of the funclus of the bladder occurred during etherization in a patient suffering from extreme retention of urine, consequent on a complete rupture of the urethra at the bulbo-mem- branous junction. He says that whilst the anaesthetic was being given the patient became greatly excited, and that during one of his struggling tits the abdominal tumor suddenly disappeared, and the former area of dulness became tympanitic. Dr. T. K. Cruse3 also furnishes particulars of six cases illustrative of muscular action as effecting this lesion. It must be remembered that this injury may be occasioned by external violence without its being indicated by any corresponding mark or abrasion, and further, that it may be complicated as well as caused by fracture of the protecting bone. I have known it happen where the pelvis had been broken by a horse falling on his jockey, whilst steeplechasing. These points are not unimportant to recollect, especially under circumstances involving medico- legal inquiries. Men are far more liable to this injury than women. The comparative immunity of the female is explained by Dr. Harrison4 as being mainly due to certain anatomical peculiarities, having regard to the greater size of the female pelvis and the direction of the bladder. Possibly the shortness and distensibility of the urethra in the female, by permitting a rapid emptying of the bladder on the sudden application of compression— a sort of safety-valve action—has more to do in explaining the rarity of the injury in women than has hitherto been conceded. A reference to any large number of collected cases of rupture of the bladder, seems to indicate that the lesion oftenest occurs in that part of the vesical wall which is least able, by reason of its structural relations, to adapt itself by yielding on the appli- cation of any sudden compressing force. Hence the frequency with which the tear is found at the junction of the posterior wall and the fundus. It is important to notice the kind of wound which is usually met with when a more or less distended bladder gives way under the effect of violence suddenly applied to it. When an examination has been made in cases proving almost immediately fatal, it has been found that the wound has been ot the nature of a fissure, varying in extent and direction. In one case which I examined, the opening, though complete, looked like a crack half an inch in length, whilst others have been found nearly two inches long. In the character of these wounds I have never seen anything which would lead me to believe that repair would not be probable on accurate coaptation of their 1 Lectures on the Surgical Disorders of the Urinary Organs, 2d ed., p. 39. 2 Diseases of the Urinary Organs, p. 245. 3 Medical Record, Aug. 1, 1871. 4 Dublin Journal of Medical Science, vol. ix.