SCROFULO-TUBERCULOUS AFFECTIONS OF BONES. 903 tubercle of the bones. It is beyond doubt that Relaton had not the least knowledge of this obscure dissertation, otherwise be would have cited it— he who had taken such pains to discover those who had preceded him in the most remote ages. It is not less certain that, if tuberculosis of the bones had had no other advocate than Suren, we might still be ignorant of it. Since the monograph of Aug. Relaton, many papers on tuberculous affec- tions of the bones have been published by Denonvilliers, Lebert,1 Robin,2 Malespine, Virchow, Ordonez, Gonzales Echeverria, Chassaignac, Cornil and Ranvier, Gerdy, Volkmann, Lazarus, Bennett, Goetz, Macnamara, Gosselin,3 Baumgarten, Abelin, Lannelongue, Ivraske, Parrot, Konig, Ivoster, Sonnen- burg, Heydenreich, Kiener, Poulet, Martin, Charles Relaton, Albert, Ollier, and others. I cannot mention all the authors. Among these, agreement is far from being complete. Some deny or limit, others accept and extend, the teachings of R^laton. The fluctuations of medical opinion relative to the nature of tuberculosis in general, have been felt at all times in the ideas of surgeons who occupy themselves with the pathology of the bones. In 1850, Reinhardt opened the campaign against the unity of phthisis, by affirming, on the evidence of the microscope, that the tuberculous infiltration of Laennec was only a catarrhal pneumonia, in which the lung was incapable of freeing itself from the products of inflammation. Then came Virchow, declaring with the authority of his name that the gray granulation was the sole and only criterion of tuberculous affections, and that the infiltrations called tuberculous, the caseous masses seen in the lungs of the phthisical, were only inflammatory products in scrofulous persons. There were, therefore, two varie- ties of phthisical persons, those whom gray granulation made truly tuber- culous, and those whom caseation of the inflammatory products of a pneumo- nia rendered merely phthisical. Ranvier was the ardent propagator of these trans-Rhenal ideas in France. Dualism substituted itself in this manner for unicism ; and consequently all caseous products infiltrated in the spongy tissue of the hones were considered as simple purulent collections in retrograde metamorphosis. Then nothing was spoken of but caseous osteitis; to admit tuberculous osteitis, the gray granulation was absolutely required. The restoration of unicism has now restored to the doctrine of Relaton all the ground lost, with more or less legitimate additions. To M. Grancher is due in large part the honor of having dethroned German dualism, and of having brought about the triumph of the principle of unicism established by Laennec. lie can write with full justice: “I have contri- buted, for my part, to overturn that doctrine of dualism, by showing the different stages of evolution of a tuberculous granulation, from its embryonic period to its old age; and also the various transformations which it may un- dergo, according to its evolutionary tendency, toward the caseous, or towards the fibrous state.”4 According to M. Grancher, the granulation of Laennec, the gray, semi-transparent granulation, is not an initial, but an adult pro- duct. “Other granulations, yellow and soft, are also adult products, in which the caseous state predominates, and the evolutionary tendency of which is toward fusion with other near granulations to form a giant tubercle. These, in their turn, unite, invade a lobe of the lung, or even an entire lung, and give rise to tuberculous pneumonia, then called caseous. The tubercle, then, exists before the gray or yellow granulation, and after it. Its definition ought not to be limited to the adult age, it deserves this name also in the earlier and later periods, that is to say, during the whole course of its evolu- 1 Traite Pratique des Maladies Scrofuleuses et Tuberculeuses. Paris, 1849. 2 Littre, Dictionnaire de M6decine, 15e tidition. Paris, 1884. 3 Clinique Chirurgicale de la Charite, 3e edition. Paris, 1884. 4 Diet. Encyclop. des Sciences Medicales, Art. Scrofule.