THR CJESAREAN SECTION AND ITS SUBSTITUTES. 762 epithelioma of the cervix; obliteration of the os uteri; cancer of the vagina; atresia of the vagina; and impaction of the foetus in a transverse position, generally with an arm protruding.1 The measure of pelvic deformity requir- ing the operation, is differently given by obstetrical writers in different coun- tries, it being reduced to a minimum in England, where the use of the knife is regarded as the last resort, and where the life of the foetus is considered of little value when that of its mother is in peril. In our own country, past experience with the Ctesarean section leads us to believe that the operation is less dangerous than craniotomy in pelves having a conjugate diameter of two inches or less. Having saved 75 per cent, of the patients operated upon in good season, we are not inclined to regard craniotomy as the preferable expedient, where the conjugate measures 1| or 1|- inches. And, besides, we hope for better results in the general average of cases, from antiseptic surgery and from the use of improved methods in suturing the uterus, whenever the whole medical profession in the United States shall have come to realize the importance of greater carefulness in the time and method of operating. Risk in Operating.—In measuring this fairly, we must consider, 1st, the danger of the operation per sc, and 2d, that which is superadded by the delay in operating, the prior attempts at delivery, and the physical condition of the patient before the commencement of her labor. If an operation is elective, the foetus alive, and the patient in a favorable condition, previously well nourished, and of temperate habits, the past record of the United States leads us to rate the prospect of success as 3 to 1. In Great Britain, on the contrary, we must look for the reverse, as her past record of early cases shows that the probability of death is as 3 to 1. This is inferred from the fact that of 28 women operated upon in the United States in good season, 21 recovered, while of 33 in Great Britain, only 8 were saved; the children delivered alive numbered 23 and 26 respectively. Here then we come to a difference which can only be accounted for by the relative advantages of the patients and their surroundings in the two countries. The American patient is, as a rule, better fed and housed, and far less given to beer or gin drink- ing than the English, and has rarely (only once in 19 times) been operated upon in hospital. The English, woman, being inferior in fitness for the operation, rarely recovers under the most skilful hands. In country and village practice, in parts of France, Belgium, and Germany, particularly where a number of operations have been performed by the same physician, the proportion saved has been unusually large. Thus, Dr. Decouene of Courtrai, Belgium, operated (1841-51) six times, and saved 5 women and 4 children.2 Dr. J. P. Hoebeke, a surgeon of Sotteghem, East Flanders, and afterwards of Brussels, reported (1829-39) eleven Caesarean operations, saving 6 women and 9 children. Two of these cases were laparotomies after rupture of the uterus, one resulting fatally, which reduces the true Caesarean opera- tions to 9, with 5 women saved (one of whom had twins) and 9 children. The operator stated in March, 1839, before the Societe Encyclographique des Sciences Medicales, of Brussels, that he had delivered 16 women by the Caesarean section, saving 11. In 1840 he published a surgical and obstetrical paper of 87 pages, in whiclqhe claimed that he had performed “gastro-hystero- tomy” 13 times, saving 10 women and 9 children.3 Prof. J. A. Stoltz, of Strasbourg, in 1854, credited him with 11 cases, 6 cures, and 9 children saved. I am therefore inclined to credit him with only the 9 true Caesarean opera- 1 Of eleven cases of impaction, in the United States, seven were saved. 2 Gazette des Hdpitaux, p. 221. Paris, 1852. 3 Memoires et Observations pratiques de Chirurgie et d’Obstetricie. Bruxelles, 1840.