INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE (ESOPHAGUS. 22 Some instances have been deemed congenital. It is probable that the excit ing cause, as in many morbid growths elsewhere, is to be attributed to topi- cal inflammation, possibly the result of pressure. Symptoms.—Dysphagia, emesis, cough, dyspnoea, imperfect articulation, and pain in the throat, chest, or back, are the chief symptoms that have been manifested, not all of them, however, in any individual instance. Theoreti- cally, dysphagia would he deemed a prominent symptom ; and in several in- stances progressive dysphagia has been experienced. Yet it has often been wanting, even when the tumors have been of the largest size.1 When pedunculated and situated high up, they are sometimes regurgitated into the pharynx,2 and, if at all large, may so threaten suffocation as to prompt the patient to his sole means of immediate relief—the swallowing of the tumor—so as to restore it to its safer position in the oesophagus. Dyspnoea, indistinct articulation, and great pain, have been experienced in individual cases. In several instances3 there have been no symptoms whatever to suggest the existence of a tumor. Diagnosis.—In most of the cases on record the affection has been diag- nosticated after death.4 In a few cases it has been recognized during life,5 once by spontaneous ejection6 of the tumor, and in other instances by its re- gurgitation into the pharynx,7 or even into the mouth.8 Some growths have been detected by exploration with the sound ;9 sometimes the diagnosis has been made by finding the trachea free on catheterization for dyspnoea,10 and once by oesophagoscopy.11 Spontaneous exhibition and instrumental explora- tion, then, constitute the means of diagnosis. Auscultation of the oesophagus, too, might.furnish additional indications of obstruction. Minute growths, even though they might give rise to dysphagia, would probably escape recognition. There are a few instances on record of tumors hanging into the oesophagus,12 their points of origin having been the epiglottis, the larynx, the pharynx, or the posterior nares. These are to he discriminated from essen- tial tumors of the oesophagus. Prognosis.—The prognosis is not unfavorable, provided that growths which give rise to dysphagia and to dyspnoea are amenable to surgical measures for relief. In the absence of such relief, the prognosis in such cases is unfavor- able. If dysphagia be progressive, and if the disease remain unrecognized or unrelieved, death ensues by inanition.13 Treatment.—Several instances have been alluded to in which the growth has been ligated. Operations of this kind are not easy of execution. In one case, the surgeon14 insured the appearance of the tumor by administering an emetic, and then, having seized it with Museux’s forceps, drew it to the left side to somewhat relieve the dyspnoea, and severed the polypus about three-fourths of an inch in front of the ligature, the entire procedure being performed in the midst of repeated vomitings and in the presence of great dyspnoea. The patient then swallowed the pedicle with the ligature, the ends of which were attached to the left ear for safety. The .vomiting, the oppression, and the dyspnoea immediately ceased, not to return. The loop of the ligature appeared in the mouth on the eighteenth day. The patient was 1 Rokitansky’s case. 2 Cases of Dallas, Middeldorpf, Hofer, and Dubois. 3 Those reported by Sclimieder, Eberth, and Fagge. I Cases of Sclimieder, Schneider, Graef, Pringle, Baillie, Arrowsmith, Coats, and Fagge. 5 Those of Vater, Dallas, Hofer, Dubois, Tonoli, and Middeldorpf. 6 Vater. i Hofer, Dubois, and Middeldorpf. 8 Dallas. 9 Middeldorpf, Tonoli. 10 Richards, Proceedings of the American Laryngological Association, June 12, 1879. II Mackenzie, op. cit., vol. ii. p. 100. 12 Gibb, The Throat and the Windpipe, p. 361. London, 1861 ; Warren, Surgical Observa- tions, p. 116. Boston, 1866. 13 Cases of Schneider and Graef. 14 Middeldorpf.