815 UTERINE TUMORS. III. Sarcomata of the Uterus.—By sarcoma of the womb is meant a solid tumor of mildly malignant type, originating in the connective tissue, as carci- noma originates in the epithelium, and myoma in the muscular fibre, of the uterus. It is generally found in the body or fundus of the womb, rarely in the cervix, and occurs in two distinct forms or stages of development:— 1. Diffuse sarcoma of the mucous membrane. 2. Sarcoma of uterine parenchyma (“fibroid sarcoma” of Schroeder). Pathology.—In the following brief statement of its pathology, reference will be made chiefly to the views of Virchow,1 Gusserow,2 and Cohnheim. In the first variety of sarcoma there is a proliferation of cells from the sub- mucous connective tissue of the cavity of the womb, or, as in Ivimert’s two cases and in one reported by Thomas,3 of the cervix. These cells are round, small, rarely spindle-shaped, “and under their influence a soft, flabby, or villous tumor develops, which grows inwards into the cavity of the uterus.” (Schroe- der.) Often, according to Gusserow, this growth assumes at an early stage of development a polypoid or circumscribed form, and so passes insensibly into the second or fibrous type of the disease. It rarely ulcerates until a late stage, unless pressure be made directly upon it; still more rarely, as in a case re- ported by Gusserow, it penetrates the uterine wall, throws out sprouting masses like true cancer into the abdominal cavity, and affects neighboring organs. As it spreads, it often becomes associated with the product of epithe- lial cell-proliferation, and the mixed form of growth results which is termed by Ivlebs carcinosarcoma. The second, or circumscribed, form of sarcoma arises also from the con- nective tissue, but from deeper layers in the muscular coat of the uterine wall; like fibroma, it may be interstitial, submucous, or subperitoneal, but it is never encapsulated. It is found in round or cylindrical masses, generally in the submucous tissue, but extending into the deeper uterine parenchyma. When it assumes a polypoid tendency, it is always, according to Schroeder, found to have been developed from a degenerated fibroma. Its connection with uterine fibroids is, indeed, exceedingly close; and a microscopic section generally shows all the constituents of the myo-fibroma, with here and there centres of cell-growth around which round and spindle-shaped cells are found in profusion. These nodules do not ulcerate or break down easily, and often grow to a very considerable size ; occasionally they become pedunculated and assume a polypoid form, when they may be extruded by uterine contraction like the fibroids which they so closely resemble. Generally remaining sub- mucous, they may infiltrate the entire uterine wralls. By metastasis, or by general systemic infiltration, they may affect neighboring tissues, though this rarely occurs; if removed, they are always recurrent in the same tissue. Etiology and Mode of Occurrence.—Of the causation of diffuse sarcoma of the uterus nothing definite is known. Of the circumscribed or fibrous form, Virchow and Schroeder think that there is good reason to believe it to be due to a special degeneration of myomatous or fibroid tumors. Either form may occur at any period of menstrual life, or in advanced age; neither has been observed before puberty. Sterility seems to have a bearing upon the development of uterine sarcoma: of seven cases reported by Emmet, six occurred in sterile subjects, and eight in a series of fourteen collected by Schroeder; but of four cases of which I have accurate notes, three were in 1 Die krankhaften Gescliwulste, Bd. ii. S. 350.' 2 Neubildungen des Uterus. Stuttgart, 1878. 3 Diseases of Women, p. 569. 1880.