1069 LATERAL CURVATURE OF THE SPINE. Fig. 1507. examination could detect no abnormality of the spinal column, either with respect to its mobility or to the position of the vertebree. The case was accepted as one of weak spine with lateral bending, and was treated accordingly. Having been a few weeks under treatment, she complained of pain at the seat of the second lumbar vertebra, and there was then found to be some rigidity of the spine at this spot; recumbency was ordered,and all other form of treatment withdrawn; at this time the photograph from which the accompanying illustration is copied was taken ; in the wood-cut, the letter A marks the situation of decreased mobility and pain. In three weeks’ time there was slight prominence of the spinous processes of the second and third lumbar vertebrae, and the case was clearly demonstrated to be one of Pott’s disease of the spine. The chief interest attached to this case belongs rather to the diagnosis of the early stage of caries of the vertebrae, than to that of lateral curvature; but it is nevertheless in- structive as showing the difficulty which occasionally attends recognition of the true nature of an affection of the spine accom- panied by lateral deviation of the column. It has already been remarked that, in the diagnosis of lateral curvature, some diffi- culty may be experienced in detecting the early stage of the deformity; as it is of course of the highest importance that the com- mencement of curvature should be recognized, it is necessary to be acquainted with the possible sources of error that exist. It is by no means uncommon for lateral bending of the spine, occurring to a slight degree, to be mistaken for lateral curvature, and also for the latter to be regarded as mere lateral deviation of the column from weakness; such want of discrimination has been frequently brought under my observation,either in hospital practice or in the examination of patients applying for surgical appliances to one of the London charities. In the early stage of both affections, there is no deviation of the spinous processes when the patient is lying down or bending forwards, and it may be here remarked that no just conclusion can be arrived at if the subject is only examined when erect. The history of the case is to some extent a guide to the surgeon; in lateral bending of the spine, there is always to be traced some cause of bodily weakness such as was described when considering the nature of that affection, but lateral curvature may be and indeed generally is preceded by no conditions that have produced debility. Again, the attitude of the patient when standing is worthy of notice; in the atonic lateral deviation of the column, the subject stands in a weary, drooping manner, the head is bent forwards, and the arms hang listlessly by the sides; in lateral curvature, on the contrary, the arms are usually kept erect, and tend rather to brace up the muscles of the back and give rigidity to the trunk. In both conditions of the spine there may be present some slight difference with regard to the scapulae, the bone on one side being a little more prominent and rather higher than its fellow; the shoulders, too, may be somewhat Lateral deflection of spine in early stage of Pott’s disease.