109 FISSURE AND PAINFUL IRRITABLE ULCER OF THE RECTUM. the sequel of a confinement, or the accompaniment, and occasional result,, of polypus. Syphilis is the origin of many fissures. In fissure the pain during action of the bowels is more or less acute ; some describe it as like tearing open a wound, and doubtless it is of a very excruciat- ing character. I have known patients who for hours could not bear to stir from one position, the least movement causing an exacerbation of the pain. This agony induces the sufferer to postpone relieving the bowels as long as possible, the result being that the motion becomes desiccated and hardened, and inflicts more grievous pain when at last it has to be discharged. After an action of the bowels, the pain may in a short time entirely cease, and not return at all until another evacuation takes place ; but often it continues very severe, and of a burning character, or it is of a dull heavy kind and accom- panied by throbbing, lasting for hours, sometimes even all day, so that the patient is obliged to lie down, and is utterly incapable of attending to any business. In some instances the pain does not set in until a quarter or halt an hour after the bowels have acted. In children and young persons, unless a polypus complicates the fissure, I think it is almost always curable without operation. In children suffering from hereditary syphilis, numerous small cracks around the anus are common, and they cause much pain. Mercurial applications and extreme cleanliness- soon cure them, but they will return from time to time unless antisyphilitic medicines be taken for a lengthened period. Fissure, although really so simple a matter, and its cure generally so easy, wears out the patient’s health and strength in a remarkable manner, the constant pain and irritation to the nervous system being more than most per- sons can bear. What under these circumstances is very extraordinary, is the length of time that people go on enduring the malady without having any- thing done for it. It is common for fissures to heal for a time, and then break out again, so that patients are apt to think that a perfect cure will presently result, and therefore defer proper treatment. The usual position on the right side is the best for making an examina- tion. The patient raises the upper buttock with the hand, and the surgeon then with forefinger and thumb gently opens the anus, telling the patient to strain down; at the same moment he will thus be able to see just within the orifice an elongated ulcer, shaped like a split grain of barley; its floor may be very red and inflamed, or, if the ulcer be of long standing, of a grayish color, with edges well defined and hard. Frequently the site of the fissure is marked externally by a small clavate papilla, or minute muco-cutaneous poly- poid growth; this must not be confounded with ordinary polypus, and is not the cause of the fissure, but the result of the local irritation and inflam- mation which have been going on. Sometimes the situation of the fissure is indicated by an inflamed and swollen piece of skin, and in this case ulcera- tion through this portion of integument not infrequently occurs, and a small but extremely painful fistula results. When operating for the fissure this club-shaped papilla ought to be snipped oft', or the case may not do well, as it falls down into the wound and retards or quite prevents healing. Of course, too, if a fistula exists, it also must be laid open throughout its whole length, as otherwise no recovery will ensue. Fissure is very commonly associated with uterine displacement. The suc- cessful treatment of this may be sufficient to cure the fissure (if no polypus exists), or at all events the ulcer will afterwards yield to local applications and general treatment. Even if the fissure be benefited by operation, as long as the uterine malady exists, there will be constant danger of a relapse taking place. If in combination with uterine displacement chronic cystitis and spasmodic pains in micturition are present, the surgeon may depend upon