AFFECTIONS OF THE SCROTUM. 557 Cleft Scrotum.—The scrotal variety of hypospadia is the most interest- ing to the surgeon, and the most formidable to the patient. The scrotum is cleft and presents a cul-de-sac, lined with a smooth membrane, ,at the bottom of which is the opening of the urethra. The penis is undeveloped, and the glans imperforate ; the prepuce is voluminous above but wanting below, giving the organ the appearance of a large clitoris ; the scrotal folds extend from the upper surface of the penis downwards on each side, and the parts resemble at first sight the vagina and labia of a female (Fig. 1362). This condition is often associated with the absence of testicles from the scrotal folds, and the presence of inguinal rupture. When passing water, the patient has to stoop in order to prevent it from running down his legs. When the testicles are present the patient has erections, but is unable to have fruitful intercourse. Fig. 1362. Cleft scrotum. P, ill-developed, clltoris-like penis; O, orifice of genito-urinary sinus; S, S, cleft scrotum contain- ing small but normal testicles. The condition called hermaphroditism is said to exist, but must be exceed- ingly rare; in these cases the unfortunate must possess the genital organs of both sexes. The sex of some of these patients with scrotal hypospadia is diffi- cult to determine during life, unless the sexual characteristics are well marked, and the testes are present in the scrotal folds; and many cases have been met with in which the sex of the individual has been mistaken. The error is often discovered and rectified on the advent of puberty. A man with this deformity passed as a woman until his father’s death, but then discarded his petticoats, and claimed a son's, instead of a daughter’s, share of his father’s estate. An endeavor must be made to discover the testicles in the cleft scrotum, if the patient incline to the male sex; or the uterus must be sought by introducing a sound into the bladder and a finger into the rectum, and feeling for it between the two, if the patient be of the female sex.