CYSTITIS. 343 cause retention, necessitating the operation of tapping. Diphtheritic inflam- mation of the bladder has been noted as occurring in association with the presence of diphtheria elsewhere. Billroth1 says that he has only met with this condition as a secondary affection, consequent on fracture of the spine, rupture or stricture of the urethra, or hypertrophy of the prostate. Both sloughing and abscess are sometimes, though rarely, met with as results of cystitis. Such destructive lesions as these are, as Charcot suggests, due, not as much to the intensity of the inflammation, as to the presence of causative or at least of coexistent changes in the spinal cord, particularly in the gray matter. Treatment.—The treatment of the various degrees of cystitis designated as acute, may be briefly summed up as follows. The exciting cause must, if possible, be'removed. Fragments of stone, pent-up gonorrhoeal matter in the urethra or in its lacunae, and urine made offensive by retention, or by the irritating foreign elements present in the excretion and derived from certain drugs in excessive doses, are all excitants of cystitis, which either may be removed, or the effects of which may be mitigated. The retention of a catheter under these circumstances can do no good, unless, from paralysis or otherwise, the bladder is incapable of voiding its contents. I have sometimes found the injection and withdrawal of small quantities of tepid water not only soothing, hut efficacious in removing possible sources of irritation. As a rule, local depletion by leeches, above the pubes or over the perineum, speedily relieves the feeling of tension of which patients complain at the onset of the disorder. Hot applications in the form of fomentations and hip baths, are also indicated. Among topical remedies which give the greatest relief, I believe that nothing can compare with hot bran poultices, well satu- rated with laudanum and laid over the abdomen. These are extremely light, and are very soothing and relaxing to parts invariably complained of as feeling tense. Opium in the form of suppositories will also be required. It is important that the patient should partake freely of diluent drinks and pleasantly flavored alkaline medicines, which quench thirst and are grateful to the palate. Hyoscyamus in full doses has long been regarded as probably the most useful, single remedy in inflammatory affections of the bladder. Chronic Cystitis.—Inflammation commencing in an acute or subacute form, not uufrequently merges into the chronic variety of this disorder, which is extremely common. Causes.—Vesical catarrh is a constant complication of various disorders of the genito-urinary organs. The kidney, or rather the digestive apparatus, is frequently responsible for its origin: we see this illustrated in certain gouty affections, in which the urine is rendered intensely irritating by the crystals it contains; and again we have cystitis provoked by the passage into the bladder of urine largely charged with pus derived from a suppurating kidney. Passing to the bladder itself, we find instances of inflammation produced by the presence of stone, by the formation of pouches or sacculi, in which urine lodges and decomposes, by paralysis from spinal disease, and by the irritation occasioned by intravesical growths. The enlarged prostate is probably the most frequent cause of chronic cystitis, as it leads to either partial or complete retention and urinary decomposition. In this way cystitis may be maintained almost indefinitely. Coming to the urethra, the gonorrhoeal poison is a frequent excitant of inflammation in the viscus behind it; whilst stricture, in the double capacity of a local irritant and a source of retention, is largely and very evidently re- 1 Clinical Surgery, New Sydenham Society’s Translation. 1881.