46 INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTION. Acute Intestinal Obstruction. Apart from strangulated hernia, which has already been fully considered in the fifth volume of this work,1 and need not, therefore, be again referred to, the most frequent causes of acute obstruction of the bowels are (1) congenital malformations, such as imperforate anus, occlusion or absence of the rectum, etc.; (2) the impaction of foreign bodies or abnormal concretions, such as gall-stones or enterolites; (3) the invagination or intussusception of one portion of bowel within another; (4) twisting or knotting of the bowel upon itself—volvulus; (5) interned strangulation by bands of organized lymph, adhesions, or diverti- cula, by protrusion of the gut through rents or other apertures in the mesentery or omentum, or by other forms of internal hernia ; and (6) vari- ous inflammatory affections of the abdomen, such as peritonitis and enteritis —that is, inflammation of the serous and muscular coats of the bowel. Acute obstruction may also be rapidly superinduced in chronic cases, as of intestinal stricture, by any cause which produces sudden blocking of the bowel’s whole calibre. The term “ Ileusf formerly much used by writers on intestinal obstruction, is so indefinite that it might well be abandoned: the ileus inflammatorius was the affection already referred to as serous and muscular enteritis, while the name ileus spasmodicus or miserere mei was in- discriminately applied to simple colic (when violent), to volvulus, to intus- susception, to internal strangulation, and in fact to all varieties of acute obstruction. That spasm of the bowel, without organic change, can produce obstruction, is more than doubtful; paralysis of the intestine, except as accompanying muscular enteritis, is rather a cause of chronic than of acute obstruction (ileus paralyticus), but fatty degeneration of the muscular wall is believed by Fourneaux Jordan to be a cause of both varieties. Congenital Malformations.—These will be properly considered in the article on Injuries and Diseases of the Rectum, and it will suffice to say here that, as an imperforate anus or absent rectum cannot possibly be remedied by medicinal treatment, the surgeon should lose no time, as soon as the nature of the case is recognized, in resorting to operative measures—opening the bowel from the perineum, when that can be accomplished, and when it is impossible having recourse to colotomy, seeking the intestine preferably, I think, by Littre’s method in the left groin. Impaction of Foreign Bodies, Gall-stones, Enterolites, etc.—Foreign bodies may enter the bowels and produce obstruction either by being swal- lowed and passing down into the gut, by being introduced into the rectum, or by entering through the abdominal parietes, as in the case of bullets lodging in gunshot wounds. Cases illustrating each of these modes of en- trance have been referred to in the article on Injuries and Diseases of the Abdomen,2 and many others are cited in Poulet’s curious treatise.3 They may produce acute obstruction by suddenly plugging a portion of bowel already narrowed by other causes, but are more likely, by leading to ulcera- tion and subsequent contraction, to give rise to intestinal stricture and thus lay the foundation for chronic obstruction, which may prove fatal long after their discharge either by vomiting or by defecation. Gall-stones are probably more often the cause of acute obstruction than foreign bodies. They are most 1 See Prof. John Wood’s Article on Hernia, Vol. V. page 1115, supra. 2 See Vol. V. pp. 991-994, supra. * Treatise on Foreign Bodies in Surgical Practice, vol. i. p. 167. New York, 1880.