PRURITUS ANI. 139 upwards, and circumferential diminution also takes place. In these cases, before operation, the sphincter muscles have quite lost power, and the anus is large and patulous ; by sawing through the anus with the iron, the muscles contract and regain their power, the patient having strength to cause the anus to close at will, and even to some extent to squeeze the linger when introduced. Sometimes when a large portion of the bowel comes down, there is much difficulty experienced in returning it. I have found that the passing up the bowel of a large flexible bougie, so as to carry before it the upper part of the descended gut, is of great service; gentle taxis should at the same time be practised. A tiresome diarrhoea is very commonly present, and there is often a dis- charge of mucus which keeps the linen damp and adds not a little to the general discomfort. One teaspoonful of powdered acorns in a tumblerful of milk, every morning, answers better than anything else that I know of, as a remedy for this, The frequent and bountiful application of cold water in. these cases is to be most strongly recommended, as it fulfils the same purpose as astringent lotions, and quite as effectually. Pruritus Ani. Pruritus aui, or painful itching of the anus, is frequently induced by habits of too free eating and drinking; it occurs thus in subjects of the lithic-acid diathesis. I am bound to say, however, that there are exceptions to this rule, as I have seen a most ascetic clergyman suffer dreadfully, as well as a lady who had been all her life a total abstainer, and a remarkably small eater. Hepatic affections with constipation, disorders of the stomach, and uterine diseases, are prolific causes of pruritus ani; and gout, especially latent gout with its accompanying eczema, is responsible for a great deal of suffering from this troublesome affection. Amongst local causes, the presence of in- ternal hemorrhoids, vegetable parasites, pediculi, and ascarides, are the most frequent. Doubtless there are many cases of pruritus for which we are unable to assign any cause, and it may then be considered as a pure neurosis. On examining the part, a distinctly eczematous rash is often seen, which is moist from exudation ; or the anus may be dry and rugose, with bright redness consequent upon scratching ; occasionally there are numerous minute scales to be seen, forming irregular rings; often there are cracks radiating from the anus and even extending up to the sacrum ; but what I consider the characteristic condition—which may always be noticed when the disease is severe and has lasted for any length of time—is the loss of the natural pig- ment of the part. To such an extent does this loss often occur, that patches around the anus, extending backwards as far as the sacrum and forwards to- the scrotum, are of a dull-white, parchment-like character, and have lost all the normal elasticity of healthy skin. When considering a case as to the question of treatment, it is always important to discover the cause of the irritation. I once had a patient who invariably got an attack of pruritus from eating lobster or crab, and another in whom salmon produced the same effect. There is but little doubt that excesses at table, combined with a want of active exercise, form not only a predisposing but also an exciting cause. Excessive smoking is another excitant of the disorder. When a tendency to the malady exists, over indul- gence in smoking may be immediately followed by an attack of pruritus. The surgeon should investigate closely the habits of his patient, and