EXOSTOSES. 975 (1) Eburnated Exostoses.—The lamellae of bone are parallel to the surface of the tumor. In the midst of the lamellae are seen bone-corpuscles, the canaliculi of which are almost all directed toward the periphery. No vessels can be distinguished in them. (Virchow, Co.rnil and Ranvier.) (2) Compact Exostoses.—The bone-tissue recalls that of the diaphyses of the long bones. The bone-substance is arranged in concentric lamellae surround- ing the vascular canals. The canals of Havers have a less regular direction than in the shafts of the long bones. The bone-tissue may be whiter, the osteoplasts more regular. (3) Spongy Exostoses.-—Their structure is that of the spongy or areolar tissue of the bones. The contained marrow is embi'yonic, gelatinous, fibrous, or fatty. Exostoses which are at first spongy may be modified, and may become compact, or conversely. If the seat of the exostoses be considered, and not their structure, they may be again divided, according to Cornil and Ranvier, into (1) epiphyseal exostoses, projecting on the surface of the bone like supplemental epiphyses; (2) paren- chymatous exostoses, developed in the thickness of the bone; and (3) enostoses, situated in the interior of the bone. (1) Epiphyseal Exostoses (Cornil and Ranvier).—This form of exostosis is met with on all the bones. It has been seen on the bones of the cranium, and in this case it is generally associated with syphilis. It has also been met with on the short bones. I saw in a young man of seventeen, in the Croix- Rousse Hospital, two symmetrical exostoses, situated on the internal surface of the calcaneum. These exostoses are also seen on the phalanges; witness the sub-ungual exostoses of the great toe, and of the phalanges of the fingers. The new tissue and the old are easy to recognize in a section. The new tissue is applied over the lamellar systems of the old bone, without their destruc- tion. These exostoses are generally developed under the periosteum in con- sequence of a proliferation of the sub-periosteal medulla; the direction of the lamellse, being determined by that of the osteo-periosteal vessels, is per- pendicular to the surface of the bone. (2) Parenchymatous Exostoses.—This form of exostosis has its birth in the thickness of the bones. In consequence of a rarefying osteitis, there occurs a loss of substance, filled up by inflammatory medullary tissue, which becomes the starting-point of an exuberant production of bone. (Cornil and Ranvier.) (3) Enostoses.—These tumors, which are usually formed of compact tissue, more or less fill the central canal of the bone. Sometimes they form simple nodules ; sometimes they are diffuse. They are not perceptible on the out- side, except as they have thrust out the bone which surrounds them, and which incloses them with a bony capsule which may afterwards be perforated. Certain authors have designated as enostoses tumors which protrude into a cavity like that of the cranium. I believe that the name ought to be reserved for growths which are inclosed within bone, and not applied to such as protrude from it. In some cases enostoses may be, at the same time, parenchymatous exostoses. If we regard the shape of exostoses, they are seen to present numerous varieties. Some have the shape of an appendix, a spine ; others are peduncu- lated, or sessile ; and, finally, there are some which by their extent resemble hyperostoses. The size of an exostosis may in some cases equal that of an adult’s fist. These tumors are sometimes propagated from one bone to another. They have been seen to fill up the space occupied by a suture, or by an interosseous ligament. They often respect the vascular canals. In chemical composition, the exostoses contain more phosphates and less carbon- ates than normal bone. They have been observed on all the bones of the skeleton, but more frequently on the superficial bones; perhaps those of the