522 INJURIES AND DISEASES OP THE URETHRA. infiltration has developed in a patient with old urinary disorder, who is being consumed by the slow form of urinary fever ; but the diagnosis is very difficult when infiltration of urine is complicated with pyeernic manifesta- tions, the febrile type of pyaemia bearing a very strong resemblance to that of urinary fever. These are very difficult cases, but, happily, they are rare. (1) Spontaneous Fever.—Urinary fever is seen especially in chronic diseases of the urinary passages: strictures, prostatic hypertrophy, calculi; and even then it does not appear until an advanced stage of the malady, when trou- bles of micturition and consecutive lesions of the urinary apparatus have come on. Thus it is that, in patients with stricture, and in those with pros- tatie disease, it appears at that period of the malady in which the bladder can no longer empty itself completely. Chronic cystitis, which is usually due to incomplete retention, constitutes a frequent condition of urinary fever. As to vesical calculi, their influence in relation to the production of urinary fever varies with one subject or another, without it being possible to fix the reasons for these variations. Certain calculi remain for a long time without febrile complications, others soon show symptoms of fever in its slow form. As to neoplasms of the urinary organs (fungus, cancer, tubercle), it is the secondary lesions which they determine, that provoke urinary fever. (2) Provoked Fever.—All operations, even the most simple, may provoke urinary fever : sounding, or simple dilatation, either temporary or permanent, of a stricture of the urethra, suffices to provoke a frank attack of urinary fever; fruitless efforts to pass a bougie through an impassable stricture, too prolonged or too rough manipulations, the introduction of too large an instru- ment, constitute so many possible causes of the appearance of fever. Frank attacks are the consequence of internal urethrotomy in a third of the cases, according to Guyon ; they usually break out between the second and third day, in the twelve or eighteen hours which follow the removal of the catheter; they appear more frequently when no retained catheter is used after the opera- tion. A clumsy or brutal evacuatory catheterization may cause an attack, which may likewise supervene, although more rarely, after the most irre- proachable use of instruments. Complete evacuation of a bladder which has been long distended by urine, is a condition quite favorable to the production of an attack. In lithotrity urinary fever is almost constant, especially after the first two sittings, and its severity is generally proportioned to the length and difficulties of the sitting; the engagement of an irregularly shaped cal- culus in the urethra, necessitating great efforts in urinating, may very rapidly provoke the appearance of an acute attack. Pathogenesis of Urinary Fever.—Four principal theories have been proposed to explain the pathogenesis of urinary fever. Although Velpeau, after having indicated certain urinary accidents, and discovered the pathological bond which connected them with alterations of the urinary apparatus, attempted to explain them “by the re-entrance into the current of the circulation of some of the constituents of the urine,” he was not followed in this path, and the majority of surgeons invoked, with Chassaignae, phlebitis of the very vascular tissues of the region. At a somewhat later period, Reybard first, and then Bonnet, of Lyons, struck especially by the symptoms of general exhaustion and of depression of strength, invented the theory of nervous ex- haustion by reflex action, analogous to the theory of shock, invoked to explain the general accidents which accompany great traumatisms. The third theory, which has nowadays a great number of partisans, is that of urinary absorp- tion., expressed for the first time by Velpeau, and defended in the thesis of one of his pupils. In his work, which reflects the opinions of his master, Perdrigeon plainly attributes the febrile manifestations to the introduction of a certain quantity of urine into the blood, but he leaves unsettled the