977 EXOSTOSES. connecting cartilage may, at some point of its circumference, give birth to an exostosis. aS'eat, Size, Shape, etc.—These exostoses occupy the ends of the long bones, and especially the lower extremity of the femur (principally on the internal surface, above the condyle), the upper end of the humerus, the tibia, etc. They are met with on the pelvis, the scapula, the junction of the sphenoid and the basilar portion of the occipital bone. Usually these exostoses are small —the size of a cherry. Still, a number of larger ones have been reported, one of which attained the size of the head of an adult. According to Dr. Soulier, they are sometimes wart-like, sometimes tuberculated, sometimes in the form of an apophysis, or actually coracoid. They are often multiple, and may or may not be symmetrical. Symmetry is of real importance in the diagnosis of this variety. The course of exostoses of development is slow; they follow the development of the skeleton, and especially that of the bony extremity upon which they are situated. Structure.—At an early period osteogenic exostoses are composed of, (1) a layer of periosteum ; (2) a layer of cartilage; (3) bone-tissue apparently analogous to that of the bone itself. At a later period the cartilage has generally disappeared, the bone-tissue has become spongy in the centre, and sometimes it is hollowed out by a medullary cavity communicating with the medullary canal of the bone. When the exostosis of 'development is situated on the diaphysis of the bone, it is the rule to see it recede from the articular extremity as the bone increases in length. This fact is sometimes noticed by the patient him- self ; it is more manifest as the exostosis has made its appearance at a period more remote from that of the cessation of growth. The same occurrence is not noticed when the exostosis is upon the epiphysis. Friction sometimes occasions the production, on the surface of these exostoses, of adventitious serous bursre, which sometimes communicate with the synovial membranes of the neighboring joints. Etiology.—The etiology of these exostoses is little understood. It seems that inheritance plays a certain part in some cases. Traumatism has been sup- posed to be concerned in their production, and pressure, fatigue, rheumatic periostitis (Virchow), and rachitis; but none of these causes is absolutely demonstrated. They are usually developed from the 11th to the 30tli year. Symptoms.—The beginning of these exostoses is usually insidious, and they are generally discovered by accident. Sometimes, however, slight pain or interference with certain movements, has been noticed. On exploration there is found a rounded tumor, generally a little mammillated, and well cir- cumscribed. It is of a peculiar consistence, and of bony hardness. The ad- herence to the bone is absolute. On the contrary, the skin and the superficial tissues move freely, and have undergone no change. Painlessness is almost always complete. In their development, exostoses act upon the surround- ing organs and may give rise to certain accidents. Thus there have been observed acute and chronic hygromata of the newly-formed serous bursEe which sometimes cover the tumors more or less completely. Compression of the neighboring nerves sometimes gives rise to extremely violent irradiating pains. Coote1 operated upon an exostosis of the transverse process of the seventh cervical vertebra, in a patient 26 years old. The tumor had caused numbness, and pains in the hand, fingers, arm, and shoulder of the same side. I saw, in a woman 22 years old, a little exostosis the size of a pea, situated on the external surface and almost at the median part of the eighth right rib. This tumor was painful on being touched, and was ac- 1 Union medicale, 1861. VOL. VI.—62