INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE URETHRA. 472 wise, the surgeon, to avoid accidents, ought to incise the lower wall, and as far as possible in the median line. Urethrotomy may be complicated with serious accidents, which may cause death. Hemorrhage always occurs, sometimes |ibundant enough to endan- ger the life of the patient. Urinary infiltration is but rarely observed, doubtless because of the precaution which most surgeons take, after having incised the urethra, of retaining in it a catheter. In some rare cases the edges of the incision, instead of quickly uniting, as is usually observed, remain separated the one from the other, and there is found at this point a true cavity, which Voillemier, who has seen a number of examples of this complication, has designated by the name of “ urethral pocket.” Urethro- tomy may also be complicated with more or less grave urinary fever, sometimes followed by rapid death. Finally erysipelas, phlebitis, and purulent infection have been seen to follow internal urethrotomy, and likewise constitute serious complications of this operation. Even a large incision of a stricture cannot suffice to restore to the urethra its normal calibre, and it is indispensable, as soon as the operation is ended, to place in the urethra a catheter large enough to till the canal and to per- mit the separate cicatrization of the two faces of the incision. This cathe- ter should be withdrawn at the end of forty-eight hours, and the wound left to itself for twelve or tifteen days. At this time the cicatrix is still soft enough not to offer very great resistance to dilatation, without which a relapse would not be long in taking place. This dilatation is practised in accord- ance with the rule which I have indicated, either with flexible bougies, or, better, with the metallic instruments of Benique, takiftg care always to pro- ceed with extreme slowness. 2. External Urethrotomy.—This operation consists in dividing from with- out inwards—from the skin toward the urethra—the various tissues, the alteration of which constitutes the stricture. The perineal boutonniere, with which urethrotomy was long confounded, has no other object but to permit the escape of urine by an incision in the healthy part of the urethra situated behind the affected parts. It is therefore a purely palliative operation, which, as J. L. Petit first clearly showed, cannot effect a cure except when the obstruction is included iu the incision. External urethrotomy, which towards the middle of the eighteenth cen- tury enjoyed a certain amount of favor, was energetically combated by De- sault, Boyer, and Roux, whose attacks caused it to fall into complete dis- credit. Some English surgeons, Arnott, Brodie, Liston, etc., endeavored to preserve it from oblivion ; but it was Syme who, in 1844, succeeded in call- ing attention anew to this operation, and securing for it a definitive entrance into practice. Urethrotomy is practised with or without a guide, according as the stricture does or does not admit of the passage of a sound. (a) External Urethrotomy with a Guide.—A grooved, curved sound having been introduced into the urethra, and the patient having been placed as for the operation of lithotomy, an incision four or five centimetres long is made in the median line, and the soft parts are divided until the sound can be felt. This done, the point of a bistoury is engaged in the groove, and the stricture is divided through its tvhole thickness. It then remains only to withdraw the sound, and to replace it with a catheter to be left in the urethra. ([b) External Urethrotomy without a Guide.—This operation differs from the preceding one chiefly in the difficulty, sometimes insurmountable, which is experienced in discovering the posterior opening of the urethra. The fol- lowing is the ordinary method of procedure:— A sound is carried up to the face of the obstruction and held by an assist- ant. Then an incision three or four centimetres long is made in the median