359 TUMORS OF THE BLADDER. Amongst the most characteristic instances of these growths are those recorded by Mr. Crosse and by Mr. Savory.1 In the former, the bladder, on being opened, was found tilled with polypi, in every way resembling those of the nose. Their removal could only be effected by the finger and a pair of scissors, and death occurred after violent fits of tenesmus within forty-eight hours. In Mr. Savory’s case, the patient, a female child aged thirteen months, had suffered from symptoms resembling those of stone. This case was further complicated by the existence of a patent and suppurating urachus, a condition probably attributable to the passage of urine by the urethra having been obstructed by the tumor within the bladder. Post-mortem examination showed this to consist of a pendulous growth, identical in structure with nasal polypi, attached to the inner surface of the bladder behind the orifices of the ureters, which were much dilated. The specimen will he found in the Museum of St. Bartholomew’s Hospital. It has been said that a growth of this kind may be mistaken for eversion of the bladder, or for a vascular tumor of the urethra. Careful examination with the finger or the probe, for the purpose of tracing the l’elations and connections of the protrusion, will insure a correct diagnosis. Fibrous growths or fibromata are, as the name implies, firmer and more fibrous in their structure than the tumors already considered. These growths appear to take origin in the submucous tissue of the bladder, being circum- scribed in their attachment, or even pedunculated. One of the best exam- ples of this kind of growth, to which reference has been made in connection with cystotomy for intra-vesical tumors, is recorded by Professor Humphry.2 It is as follows:— W. N , aged 21, light-complexioned, healthy-looking, was admitted into Adden- brooke’s Hospital, Cambridge, on September 17, 1877. Six weeks previously he had begun to feel pain at the root of the penis after micturition, and the desire to pass water had become frequent. At the time of his admission he had, in addition, blood in the urine after any exertion; but this subsided completely, or nearly so, when he remained in bed. He several times made the attempt to get up ; on his doing so, however, the blood invariably reappeared, and the other symptoms were aggravated. Occasionally the flow of water suddenly stopped during micturition. There were pus and blood- corpuscles in the urine, also crystals of oxalate of lime and epithelial scales, but no casts from the kidneys. I sounded him on two or three occasions, but could not discover a calculus, nor obtain any other information as to the nature of the disease. The sounding was always fol- lowed by bleeding. Under treatment, the oxalate crystals disappeared, but no improve- ment in the other symptoms took place. On the contrary, they became more severe, especially the pain and straining, which were relieved only by opium. A flexible cath- eter was left in the bladder, but it could not be borne. A flrmish mass could be felt above and behind the pubis, and from the rectum ; it appeared to occupy the position of, and to be connected with, the bladder. The patient wasted, and his sufferings were so great that I determined to make an incision into the bladder, for the purpose of ascer- taining the precise nature and situation of the disease, and of taking any further steps which might offer a prospect of relief. If the disease were merely inflammatory and ulcerative, a free exit for the contents of the bladder might prove beneficial. If, as there was much reason to believe, a growth had taken place into the bladder, the opera- tion would do no harm, and there might be a possibility of removing the growth. Accordingly, on October 17, I cut into the bladder on a staff introduced through the urethra, making the usual incision for the lateral operation of lithotomy, and, intro- ducing my finger, found the bladder occupied by a firm mass, about the size of an orange, with a ragged surface. It was attached by a pedicle as thick as my finger, to the inte- rior of the bladder, near the orifice of the right ureter. Partly with the finger, and 1 Med. Times and Gazette, vol. ii. 1852. 2 Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, vol. lxii.