723 RECTO-VAGINAL FISTULAS. ally met with, and may be fatal, or, when this rare result does not occur, will probably prevent the success of the operation. If the bleeding can be arrested by the introduction of one or more sutures, this method should be employed. But it may occur at night, and the use of sutures may be impossible, when dependence must be placed upon thorough vaginal tamponing, with the use of an abdominal bandage and a large compress firmly applied over the bladder. Special Methods Necessary in Different Varieties of Fistula.—If two vesico- vaginal fistulse are situated near to each other, it is better to divide the bridge of tissue intervening between them, making a single fistula to be denuded and united, than to operate upon each separately. If a vesico- vaginal fistula be very large, it may be necessary to unite the margins in different lines, as, for example, one longitudinal, and two oblique and diverg- ing from it, presenting an appearance somewhat like that of the sagittal and lambdoidal sutures of the foetal head. Vesico-uterine fistulas, which, according to Emmet, result from anterior lacerations of the cervix which have healed over, leaving sinuses between the uterine canal and the bladder, are treated by laying the track of the sinus open, denuding the tissues with scissors or a small scalpel, and approximating them with sutures introduced with a long straight needle. This is the method of Emmet. Kaltenbach operates by splitting the cervix up to the vaginal junction, then drawing the uterus down to the inferior third of the vagina; denudation and the introduction of sutures follow. Hysterocleisis, or uniting the lips of the womb together, is an operation which was em- ployed by Jobert, while episiostenosis, or closure of the vulva after making a recto-vaginal fistula so that the urine might be passed through the rectum, was practised by Rose in a case of genito-urinary fistula believed to be other- wise incurable. Colpocleisis, or obliteration of the vagina, is also another method of treating such fistulte, but it is only indicated, according to Ifegar and Kaltenbach, when in “ addition to the impermeability of the canal cer- tain complications are present, such as absolute inextensibility of the lips of the fistula, their invasion by cicatricial tissue complicating a fistula situated very high, the adherence of the fistula to the pelvic bones, or the danger, in operating, of wounding important organs.” Uretero-uterine fistula has been treated by Hahne and by Simon by making a vesico-vaginal fistula, and then closing the vagina below this point; by Zweifel and by Crede, by extirpation of the corresponding kidney. In 18671 I operated successfully upon a uretero-vaginalfistula of fourteen years’ duration, by making first a vesico-vaginal fistula—cutting from the ureter into the vagina—then after a few days denuding a comparatively large surface of the latter, and finally inverting that surface so as to throw the ureteral orifice into the bladder. At that time I had never seen any report of a similar lesion, and the diagnosis was not readily made; the treatment was still more difficult, and it was not until after more than one failure that I finally succeeded. Even now the literature of the subject is scanty, and I cannot find any method of treating this lesion more promising, though others may be more ingenious, and are more complicated, than that which I have described. Recto-Vaginal Fistulje. Recto-vaginal fistulse are openings between the rectum and the vagina. They are much rarer than uro-genital fistuke, and probably a smaller propor- 1 Western Journal of Medicine, October, 1867.