137 PROCIDENTIA AND PROLAPSUS OF THE RECTUM. Procidentia and Prolapsus of the Rectum. True procidentia is the descent of the upper part of the rectum, in its whole thickness, or all its coats, through the anus. True prolapsus is a descent of the lowest part of the rectum, the mucous membrane and submucous tissue being turned out of the anus. A third variety consists of an intussusception, the upper part of the rectum descending through the lower part. It is easily diagnosed from ordinary procidentia by there being a more or less deep sulcus around the inner column of the intestine ; so that there are, as it were, two cylinders of rectum, one inside of the other. The expression prolapsus ani is often loosely applied to protruding in- ternal hemorrhoids, thus giving rise to unnecessary confusion. Internal hemorrhoids come down as distinct and separate tumors, with a smooth and shiny surface, and are hard to the touch. True prolapsus has no folds, except one towards the perineum (which indeed may be absent), and feels to the linger soft and velvety. But the most common cause of prolapsus is un- doubtedly the presence of internal hemorrhoids. I have seen it also as the result of straining, in fissure, and in conditions of the urinary tract accom- panied by difficulty of micturition, such as urethral stricture, the presence of a stone in the bladder, enlarged prostate, cystitis, etc. In children, diarrhoea, often the result of strumous inflammation of the bowels, worms, and phimosis, are responsible for a great many cases. Polypus may be the cause of either prolapsus, procidentia, or intussusception. It must be well under- stood that, as procidentia is only a more advanced degree of prolapsus, all the causes above mentioned will, if they act long enough, produce it also. When procidentia occurs conjointly with internal hemorrhoids, removing them by either crushing or ligature will almost certainly cure it. Procidentia of the rectum is more often seen in children than in adults, although it is by no means a rare affection in women—particularly those who have borne many children—and in men advanced in years. Procidentia in children is much favored by the formation of the pelvis, the sacrum being nearly straight. Moreover, all infants strain violently when their bowels act, even when their motions are quite soft; there appears to be some phy- siological necessity for this, which I do not pretend to explain or understand. But these facts are not quite sufficient to account for the proneness of children to this malady; there must be, in addition, some inherent weakness or ex- traneous source of irritation present, by which excessive straining is produced. There are many cases, however, in which we can assign no special cause, where the child is not manifestly unhealthy, and where no source of irritation can be detected. I am sure that the very bad custom of placing a child upon the chamber-utensil, and leaving it there for an indefinite period, as practised by many mothers and nurses, is a fertile cause of procidentia. In children the treatment is generally successful: it should first be addressed to the removal of any source of irritation; this accomplished, a cure is speedily effected. Where no source of irritation can be discovered, the general health must be attended to. The child should never be allow©! to sit and strain at stool; the motions should be passed lying upon the side, at the edge of the bed, or in a standing position, and one buttock should be drawn to one side, so as to tighten the anal orifice while the feces are passing; this device I have found to be very useful. When the bowels have acted, the protruded part ought to be well washed with cold water, and afterwards a solution of alum and oak-bark, or infusion of matico, should he thoroughly applied with a sponge; the bowel must then be returned by gentle pressure, and the child should remain recumbent for some little while, lying upon its face on a