251 LITHOTOMY. rather than the prolonged endurance of the certain torture and slow death which would have followed had no operation been performed. I have not seen atony of the bladder follow litholapaxy, nor heard of it. Thompson1 speaks also of chronic cystitis with phosphatic deposits as coming on in some cases as an after-complication of litholapaxy, when it did not exist before the operation. The same complication has arisen in in his hands after lithotomy, lie says further, that “one of the most per- sistent examples of phosphatic cystitis” which he has seen of late years followed an operation of rapid lithotrity done two years before, in which he removed with great ease in six minutes a small uric-acid calculus weigh- ins: 84 grains, lie refers also to live other cases in which there was more or less chronic cystitis prolonged for a period of several months, in all of which “ the calculus was uric acid, and cystitis was not present before the operation.” When this complication occurs, it is to be met according to the general principles governing the conduct of a case of chronic cystitis with tendency to phosphatic accumulation. Applicability of Litholapaxy to Women and Children, and for the Removal of Substances other than Urinary Deposits.—The applicability of litholapaxy to children has already been considered (page 211). Females of all ages are admirably suited for the operation. I have employed it at both extremes of life. Generally, the known existence of any substance in the bladder other than a urinary concretion, has been looked upon as a bar to the crushing operation, but with strong instruments and large tubes, certain exceptions must now be made. Pieces of bone, wood, wax, lead-pencil, slate-pencil, pipe- stem, or catheter, known to be acting as nuclei of stone, may be disregarded, crushed up, and washed away with the rest of the debris., I was present at an operation at the New York Hospital, in which Dr. Peters removed with some phosphatic debris quite a large piece of wax. Bigelow, in his first set of cases, removed a portion of catheter which was the nucleus of a stone. I have done the same. Holt C. Wilson2 has quite recently reported a case in which he removed successfully by litholapaxy, from a patient of 42, a phos- phatic stone and six inches of an English web-catheter, of size No. 8 (No. 15 French). Lithotomy. Lithotomy, like so many of the surgical terms which have been conse- crated by usage, is a misnomer. We no longer cut the stone, as history tells us was done by Ammonius, but we cut the soft parts, more or less, and extract the stone whole, or after it has been broken. The first known attempts at extracting stone from the bladder of the male seem to have been made long before the Christian era by the Hindoos. Doubtless, the idea first suggested itself to some one who witnessed the spon- taneous expulsion of a calculus through the perineum, or perhaps liberated a large stone from a perineal fistula by a stroke of the knife. Certain it is, that the operation known as “ cutting on the gripe”—the apparatus minor, as it was afterwards called on account of the small number of instruments required for its execution; also christened the method of Celsus, on account of the accurate description which that writer gave of the operation in the first century of our era—was the earliest ever performed, and that in spite of its rudeness and manifest imperfections, this, more or less modified, was 1 Op. cit., 6th ed., p. 94. 2 Med. Record, Dec. 23, 1882, p. 709.