564 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. expansion of the lower and larger part of the tunica vaginalis, contrasting with the upper, smaller, constricted portion which runs up towards the cord. When inflammation has taken place, the hydrocele may be of an irregular shape, owing to adhesions. The most interesting cases of hydrocele, from a diagnostic point of view, are those in which the tumor runs up the cord and makes its way into the abdomen, presenting a swelling which obscures the cord, and has, like hernia, an impulse transmitted to it on coughing. Vaginal hydroceles not only reach to and distend the external abdominal ring, but, when a hernia is present, may act as a plug and keep the rupture within the abdomen, and it is interesting to note that eases of hydrocele, generally of the cord, which pass into the abdomen through the inguinal canal, are not associated with a rupture, and do not give rise to one when cured by operation. Sir Joseph Lister1 has reported an interesting case in which a vaginal hydrocele passed through the inguinal rings into the abdomen, where it formed a swelling in the hypogastric and iliac regions, and assumed in consequence an hour-glass shape. It differed from a hernia in that it fluctuated; it was only partially reducible, and there was an interchange of size between the internal and the external swelling when they were alternately pressed upon. After death an hour-glass shaped tumor, formed by a single cyst—the left tunica vaginalis—which passed over to the right side, was removed. The lower part of the hydrocele was somewhat stomach-shaped, with a large projection above connected to it by a narrow neck which passed through the left inguinal canal, and a small one on the right which projected over to the right external ring. The tumor, which was partially distended with cholesterin-bearing fluid, was beneath the peritoneum lining the iliac fossa and the lower part of the anterior wall of the abdomen. It was lined with a smooth serous membrane, and the testicle, smaller than usual, pro- jected into the cavity, covered by its lining membrane. An interesting example of hydrocele with hour-glass contraction is described by Dupuytren. A portion of the tumor occupied the scrotum, whilst*the other part was in the abdomen, and spread itself above the ring which, by its constriction, caused the tumor to assume an hour-glass shape. When the patient stood up the visible portion of the tumor filled, and it became distended when he coughed ; but it became emptied, on the other hand, when he was in the horizontal position or when it was pressed. The abdominal portion of the tumor, and the right iliac region, then became raised and dis- tended. Incision was the method of treatment adopted. Dr. Kocher,2 of Bern, calls special attention to a form of hydrocele in children, in which the fluid is forced by pressure into an intra-abdominal sac, and not into the peritoneal cavity. Dr. Kocher’s cases were cured by iodine injection. Treatment.—Spontaneous cure is common in cases of infantile hydrocele, but is very rare in the adult, although a few cases are on record. In infants it is only necessary to apply a piece of lint which is kept well saturated with a muriate-of-ammonium and spirit lotion. If this fail, the tunica vaginalis may be punctured in a few places with a needle (acupuncture), and should further treatment be necessary, a few threads of silk passed through the swelling, and allowed to remain for a few hours, will drain the hydrocele and set up enough irritation to bring about a cure. But, as a rule, the use of the lotion, or the application of weak tincture of iodine or collodion to the scrotum, as recommended by Mr. Curling, will suffice. In the adult, stimu- lating applications and blisters are of so little use that it is a waste of time to attempt a cure by their means. When a hydrocele has accidentally burst, a large swelling ensues from extravasation of the fluid from the tunica vaginalis; this becomes absorbed, but collects again in the tunica vaginalis, the rent in which heals in due time. 1 Edinburgh. Medical Journal, Sept. 1856. 2 British Med. Journ., vol. ii. 1878.