VITAL AND ORGANIC LESIONS OF THE URETHRA. 451 preceding case. If the foreign body be a pin, one may begin, as above, by pushing it through the walls of the canal; then it may be cut off even with the skin, and the head extracted through the natural passage with the forceps of Hunter or of Cusco; The following method, proposed by Gaudmont, may also be attempted: instead of forcing the pin through the walls, an attempt is made to disengage it; then a large wax bougie is introduced into the urethra, into which the point of the pin is to be thrust, and then the whole is to be drawn out together. There have been devised a number of instruments for the urethra, analo- gous to those employed to extract metallic bodies of small dimensions from the bladder. But these instruments are only very rarely used. To extract ends of catheters, which are generally lodged in the membranous portion of the urethra, the forceps of Hunter may be used with great advan- tage. Further, it very often suffices to shake the fragment of a catheter a little, in order to secure its discharge by the stream of urine. I will men- tion, also, the ingenious method devised by Voillemier in a case in which one of the sections of a pocket-catheter was left in the canal. Having intro- duced a finger into the rectum to furnish a point of support to the catheter, he insinuated into the cavity of the latter a small catgut bougie, which he allowed to remain for two hours, until it had time to swell up; and with it he withdrew the end of the catheter. If, finally, the size, the shape, and the situation of the foreign body make extraction by the preceding manoeuvres impossible, a small opening may he made at the level of its anterior extremity, and through this opening it may be extracted with forceps. Vital and Organic Lesions of the Urethra. Inflammation of the urethra, or urethritis, will not be referred to here, as it has already been fully considered in the article on Gonorrhoea in the second volume of this Encyclopiedia. Stricture of the Urethra.—There are a great many causes capable of diminishing the calibre of the urethra; tumors of the penis and of the perineum, foreign bodies, and calculi, may by their presence occasion a more or less complete obliteration of the lumen of the canal, to which, however, the name of stricture could only be applied by a veritable abuse of language. True strictures, the only ones which deserve this name, are those in which the cause of the coarctation resides in the very walls of the contracted channel; and here again several divisions should be admitted. Urethritis is accompanied in certain cases by a more or less marked tume- faction of the urethral mucous membrane and of the subjacent tissues, which effaces to a greater or less extent the lumen of the canal, and thus produces an acute inflammatory stricture, which disappears with the disorder which gave it birth. Further, stricture results from modifications, brought about by the fact of inflammation, in the structure of the normal walls of the urethra- modifications which survive the primary inflammation, lessen the elasticity of the tissues, and give them a persistent tendency to contraction. Hence the formation of an organic or chronic inflammatory stricture, as it has some- times been called. In another form, the walls of the urethra have been ruptured by a traumatism, or destroyed by ulceration. In both cases the interposition between the lips of the wound of a tissue of new formation is the origin of a stricture called cicatricial. These last two varieties alone will