782 THE CAESAREAN SECTION AND ITS SUBSTITUTES. Puerperal Laparo-cystotomy, Laparo-cystectomy, and Elytrotomy in Ectopic Pregnancies. Puerperal Laparo-cystotomy.—The removal of an extra-uterine foetus by opening the abdomen and the containing cyst, is, in its most simple form, a very old operation, the nature of the condition and the propriety of the measure being established by the pointing of an abscess in the abdominal wall, with the subsequent escape of foetal hair, broken down tissues, and perhaps bones. To deliberately incise a sound abdomen for the removal of a foetus after its death, is a more modern operation, although one case is on record which dates back to the close of the sixteenth century, the surgeon having been led to operate because one of two foetal cysts (the woman being pregnant with twins) had previously suppurated, and had opened spontane- ously through the abdominal wall. After two such operations there does not appear to have been any until that.of Paul B. Calvo, of Prance, in 1714. To operate for the delivery of a living and viable foetus is still more hazard- ous and uncertain, and no attempt of this kind appears to have been made until the beginning of the present century. The oldest known operation of opening and evacuating a foetal abscess of the abdomen, is that credited to Christopher Bain, of Castrum Pomponii, and described by John Sclienck, of Grafenberg, in 1609, the operation bear- ing the date of March, 1540. In this case the abscess contained little of the foetal remains except the skeleton, which was readily removed. Such opera- tions have been very numerous and rarely fatal, the parietal adhesions saving any exposure of the peritoneal cavity. Laparotomy in cases of extra-uterine pregnancy is divided into two varie- ties, which are chiefly distinctive in the great disparity of their relative mortality. If the foetus is living and at a viable age, the operation is denominated primary; if it is dead and has been so long enough to aftect the placental circulation and its vascular supply, it is denominated secondary. If the foetus is alive, but not. yet viable, and if the state of health of its mother appears to demand its extirpation, the case will be primary in its prognostic character, although not strictly belonging to this class of operations. If the foetal cyst is so connected that it may be ligated and removed as in ovari- otomy, the operation becomes one of much less risk, and may be called a cystectomy. Should the foetus die prematurely, its removal may be a secondary laparo-cystotomy, or a cystectomy, according to the form of extraction, either being less hazardous than a true primary operation. While the foetus is living, if near maturity, the vascular connection between it and its mother, through the placenta, constitutes the basis of risk in its removal, the exfolia- tion of the placenta giving rise to either a fatal hemorrhage, or to so great a sanious and purulent discharge as to bring the woman to the verge of the grave. After the foetus is dead, whether mature or premature, a change commences in the placental sinuses, the tissue of the placenta, and the vascular connections between it and its seat, wherever that may be, which in time renders it capable of exfoliation after the removal of the foetus, without giving rise to hemorrhage, the act of separation being usually more rapid and attended with less discharge than after a non-fatal primary operation, such as that of Mr. Jessop, to be hereafter described. If decomposition of the foetus should commence soon after its death, the placental changes may take place rapidly, and removal may be safely accomplished in a few weeks (live in one case); hut if the foetus remains sound, twice this time may be required to render the operation safe. Three months after foetal death may • be regarded as a good time for the operation.