991 SARCOMATA OF BONE. are a transition stage between benign and malignant growths. Verneuil and Marchand consider them as belonging clearly to myeloid tumors. They rest upon the bone, with which they have cellulo-vascular attachments. The bone-tissue at their seat may show only superficial erosions, but sometimes the depression penetrates to the medullary canal. Intra-osseal tumors are by far the most frequent. They are encysted or diffused. In the encysted form, in proportion as the bone is destroyed by the encroachments of the tumor, a sub-periosteal new formation forms a more or less thick shell of bone around it. When this shell is wanting at any part, the wall of the cyst is osteo- fibrous. In the diffuse form, neoplastic masses of variable size are spread through the much enlarged areola; of the bone. The bone then acquires a peculiar cavernous appearance. Vascularization is very abundant, and inter- stitial hemorrhages, by filling the areolae with blood, produce a resemblance to aneurism. Nelaton has spoken of a form called perforating, which is re- markable for the rapidity with which central tumors perforate the bone and spread outside of it. The neighboring tissues—aponeuroses, muscles, tendons, vessels, and nerves —are pressed backwards and asunder, and hollow out for themselves depres- sions and grooves in the neoplasm without being involved in the degenera- tion. The cartilages oppose an almost insuperable barrier to invasion, and, in order to penetrate to the joints, the neoplasm goes around them. E. Nelaton has spoken of two varieties of myeloid tumor: one in the crude state, the other in the state of softening. Sub-periosteal myeloid tumors have a firm and resistant consistence, sucli as is rarely presented by intra-osseal tumors. The tissue in the intra-osseal form is at first firm, elastic, and quite coherent, but is at a later period transformed by softening into a substance without more cohesion than the substance of the brain. When in this stage hemor- rhages occur, they transform the morbid growth into a brownish mass which might be mistaken for clots. Tumors composed of myeloplaxes have on section a red, or reddish-brown, color. Those which are made of medullo- cells have a yellowish-gray tinge. Histological Structure.—Myeloplaxes and medullo-cells are the funda- mental element of these tumors. In such neoplasms they have the same form as in the medulla, but often their size is larger. Fibrous trabeculae traverse the tumor, and form a sort of reticulum, in the meshes of which the myeloid cells rest. But this fibrous tissue is only accessory, and its greater or less quantity modifies the consistence of the tumor. In the centre of the mass there is often found a trabecular network of perfect bone-tissue. (Ver- neuil and Marchand.) These tumors present multiple degenerations: fatty, cystic, telangiectatic. Cavities are found in them, filled with blood from interstitial hemorrhages; and masses of bone, which have sometimes led to their being considered as ossifying tumors. Etiology.—Myeloid tumors are usually developed below the age of thirty years, and oftener in men than in women. Traumatism has been noted as a predisposing cause, as well as repeated irritations of one point of the skeleton. Symptoms.—These tumors are developed either in the mouth, inside or out- side of the dental arches, or—but much more rarely—in an epiphysis or even a diaphysis of a long bone. They are adherent to the bone, and are not movable at any period of their evolution. Peri-osseal myeloid tumors are hard and firm. Vo notion can be formed of the consistence of intra-osseal tumors until they have perforated the compact substance; a little before which occurrence, parchment-like crepitation may sometimes be perceived, even on light pressure. The consistence varies also with the points examined; there are few tumors which exhibit differences of consistence in different points in