664 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE FEMALE GENITALS. Table for Examination ; General Preparations ; Position of Patient. —Many ingenious gynaecological tables and chairs have been invented, and offer certain advantages and conveniences. Nevertheless, an ordinary table of wood, about thirty inches in height, will answer in most cases quite as well as the often expensive and complicated furniture referred to, and will be less likely to frighten a nervous patient. This table is covered with a thick blanket or comforter, folded upon itself, so as make the artificial couch less hard while it remains sufficiently resisting ; a sheet is laid over the blanket or comforter, and one or more pillows are provided. Two chairs are neces- sary, for the patient to rest her feet upon when her hips are brought to the foot of the table, and a sheet is at hand to protect her person from exposure during the examination. If she be examined in bed, this should be of such firm, resisting material that her hips will not sink in it. The bladder and bowels should be empty, and if their evacuation be recent, and just after they have been distended, the resulting relaxation of the abdominal Avail greatly facilitates abdominal palpation. An anaesthetic is sometimes necessary, as in cases of hyperesthesia or of great resistance of the abdominal wall, in certain painful affections of the external organs of generation, in very nervous, sensi- tive patients, or where dilatation of the passages may be necessary for ex- ploration ; it is also recommended in the case of young girls, to protect their modesty from shock. Penal disease, idiosyncrasy, great exhaustion, or fatty disease of the heart may forbid its use. When an anaesthetic is used, of course a third party is necessarily present; and in most cases, especially if the examination be protracted, it is advisable to have one or more persons in the room, prudence and self-protection suggesting this precaution. It is rare that it is advantageous or advisable to make vaginal touch when the patient is standing, though some displacements of the uterus or of the vagina may be better appreciated if the examination be thus made than if she be recumbent. In making it, the patient stands with her hips against the wall or other firm object, and her body slightly inclined, while the examiner occupies a low seat, or rests one knee upon the floor, directly in front of her; one hand, the index finger being covered with car- bolizecl oil, soap, or something similar, is passed beneath her clothing, and the finger is introduced into the vagina. Vaginal touch is usually made with the patient lying upon her back, the lower limbs moderately flexed, and the head supported by a single pillow. This also is the position taken for external as well as for internal touch, and for conjoined touch, or the bimanual examination. Modifications of the dorsal position are known as the lithotomy and the dorso-sacral position. In the former, the patient’s hips are brought to the edge of the table or bed, the legs are flexed on the thighs, the latter are strongly flexed upon the trunk and supported by assistants, and the pelvis is then flexed upon the vertebral column while the head rests upon one pillow; in the latter, the lower limbs are only moderately flexed, but the head and shoulders are raised so that the woman is placed in a position between that of sitting and that of lying. The abdominal position is that in which the trunk and limbs are extended, so that the former rests upon the abdomen and the thorax; it is used for exami- nation of the vertebral column, the posterior wall of the basin, and the back. There are different modifications of this position, the two extremes being that in which the patient rests upon her knees, the thighs being at right angles to the pelvis, and upon her hands; and that in which, the knees occupying the same position as before, the anterior part of the trunk is sup- ported by the head, or by the upper part of the thorax. In the first of these modifications the plane of the trunk is nearly or quite parallel with that of the examining table, while in the other they make an angle varying from