970 SCROFULO-TUBERCULOUS AND OTHER STRUCTURAL DISEASES OF BONES. malacia among the atrophies; these are pure and simple rarefactions of the bone, whilst in osteomalacia the decalcification appears to be primary, and to constitute the predominant phenomenon. According to Curling, senile atrophy is also due to a defect of nutrition. It begins in the neck of the femur because this part of the skeleton is but slightly vascular. Senile atrophy resembles that of mollifies ossium, he says, although to a less degree ; and as there is usually a superabundance of phos- phates in the bone-tissue, fractures are more frequently seen than softening. These propositions rest upon gross appearances. The two processes are abso- lutely different, as we have seen. All the osseous system of old persons is more or less affected with atrophy ; but, when this physiological condition is quite accentuated, it becomes a morbid condition. Then it is that frac- tures occur with the greatest facility. Old persons have been seen to break their jaws while eating. The inferior maxilla, which is always reduced in size (concentric and eccentric atrophy), may be no more than a rim of bone. The scapulae, the iliac bones, and the bones of the cranium, may be thinned to such a degree that parts of them may be placed directly under the microscope. (Volkmann.) They are sometimes even pierced with quite large openings.1 Similar atrophies may be met with in patients who are cachectic although young. It is perhaps in this category that should be placed the perforated cranium (of a girl from 13 to 16 years old) which M. Charpy showed me. Aplasia and atrophy contribute to the same result in young cachectic persons. Senile atrophy, whether premature or coming on at the time fixed by nature, predisposes, it will be understood, to fractures, among which that of the neck of the femur is the most common. Fatty osteoporosis, brought about by inaction, also creates a predisposition to fracture, though less marked. The prognosis of fractures in atrophic states of the bones is sufficiently un- favorable, because of the general condition of the patients; and it is made more gloomy by the danger of sudden death from fatty embolism. It is a matter of observation, also, that bones in fatty atrophy supply one of the most favorable soils for the evolution of septo-pysemic processes (acute septic osteo- myelitis), when, in a compound fracture, in an amputation, or in a resection, etc., the precepts of the antiseptic method have not been followed. These accidents, very happily, pertain somewhat to ancient history. The anatomico- physiological conditions of the vascular circulation and the absorbing power of the osseous medulla, and the increase of the latter, explain the rapidity of septic poisoning. Treatment is disarmed in the presence of senile osteoporosis, as in the presence of an inflexible law of nature. It should be limited to improving the patient’s food and hygienic surroundings, if this be necessary, especially when the atrophy is very pronounced. When fractures occur, they should be treated as those of normal bones, always remembering, in order to palliate them, the inconveniences of confinement to bed in old persons (pneumonia, fatty embolism, digestive disturbances, eschars). In fatty osteoporosis caused by inaction, in non-senile patients, it may be hoped that good food and better hygienic conditions may renew the vitality of the tissues. After and during the employment of these general meas- ures, recourse should be had, as soon as possible, to means of curing the disease which condemns the patient and the limb to inactivity ; that is to say, curing the anchylosis, the osteitis, the arthritis, etc. In operative pro- cedures it is important to remember the fragility of the bones, in order to avoid breaking them. 1 See Fer6, Atropliie senile des parietaux. (Progres M6d., 1882.)