974 TUMORS OF THE BONES. myeloplaxic and medullary tumors, spindle-celled sarcomata, epitheliomata, encephaloid and other carcinomata, lymphadenomata, simple cysts, hydatid cysts, and vascular or pulsatile tumors. I shall describe these different varieties separately; their study will thus be more simple and more classical. I cannot, indeed, tor reasons already given, adopt a classification according to the degree of benignity. Yet I would remark here that, from a clinical point ot view, exostoses, lipomata—which are so rare that their existence is questioned—cysts, and pulsatile tumors—sometimes called aneurisms of the bones, and also very rare—belong to the category of benign tumors. Other tumors which are often benign, are sometimes malignant: fibromata, myxo- mata, chondromata; and the same is true of certain neoplasms called myelo- plaxic and medullary tumors, grouped under the name of myeloid growths. Finally, the really malignant tumors are: sarcomata, epitheliomata, carcino- mata, and osteoid tumors. Exostoses. By the name exostosis, is meant an abnormal and circumscribed production of bone-tissue, on the surface or in the interior of a bone. (Duplay.) In the latter situation, the masses protruding into the interior of the bone have often been designated by the name of enostoses ; but usually the name exos- tosis is employed in the general sense which I have attributed to it in the definition. Before entering upon the study of exostoses, it will be well to differentiate them first from other abnormal productions of bone. In the first place, when a long bone is more or less uniformly increased in size in its whole length, or in a considerable part of its extent, by the formation of new layers of bone, the name hyperostosis is given to the lesion. On the other hand, in the neighborhood of old bone-lesions, or even sometimes of lesions of the soft parts, as in old ulcers of the leg, masses of bone, to which the name osteophytes have been given, are seen to form. In a word, in order to have exostosis, it is necessary: 1. To really have a tumor.1 2 2. This must be made up of true bone-tissue (this is why odontoma is entirely distinct from exostosis). 3. The tumor must have its starting-point in one of the constituent elements of bone; which enables us to eliminate certain neoplasms called parosteitic osteomata by Virchow. This author has designated by the name apophyseal exostoses, exostoses beginning as ossifications in the portions of tendons attached to the bone; the production of bone is afterwards pro- longed into the tendons in the shape of long needles. In some cases, from twenty-five to fifty such prolongations have been found upon the skeleton. History.—The older authors, and more lately J. L. Petit, Boyer, and Sir Astley Cooper, confounded under this title different tumors, grouping under the same designation both sarcomata and carcinomata. More recently the different varieties of exostosis have been confounded. The first precise account of the exostoses of development, appeared in the thesis of Dr. Soulier, in 1864,2 and in regard to this variety, the thesis of Dr. Labarthe3 and the clinical lectures of Professor Gosselin4 may be consulted with advantage. Pathological An atomy.—Exostoses were formerly divided into eburnated ex- ostoses and spongy exostoses. Cornil and Ranvier divide them, like the osteo- mata into: (1) eburnated exostoses, (2) compact exostoses, (3) spongy exostoses. 1 Heydenreich, Diet. Encycl, etc. 2 Du paralliilisme parfait entre le developpement du squelette et celui de certaines exostoses (These.) Paris, 1864. 3 These de Paris, 1871. 4 Clinique Chirurgicale de l’Hopital de la Charity, 3e edition. Paris, 1878.