441 TRAUMATIC LESIONS OF THE URETHRA. 1 See p. 413, supra. meets the immediate exigencies, protects the patient against subsequent com- plications. To this the preference should be given. The following is a brief description of this operation: The patient being laid upon his back, in the lithotomy position, the perineum is incised, layer by layer, in the middle line and at an equal distance from the two ischia. In this way the effusion of blood is tirst reached, the clots being turned out with the finger, and then the ruptured urethra. When this is done, and in order to introduce the catheter which is to be retained, the two ends of the divided urethra must be sought for. The anterior one presents little difficulty. A sound introduced by the meatus readily discloses it. It is quite otherwise with the posterior end, the search for which constitutes the most delicate part of the operation. Sometimes it is possible, if the rupture is not total, to enter the bladder by following with a guide the little tongue which still persists at the upper wall of the canal. Or the patient is instructed to make efforts which may lead to the escape of a certain quantity of urine; or, yet again, it may be possible, by pressing gently but with some force on the hypogastrium, to effect the passage of some drops of urine. If none of these plans succeed, it is possible, as Demarquay has advised, to discover the urethra at some distance from the lesion by means of an incision like that of bilateral lithotomy, to divide the canal at this point, and through this open- ing practise retrograde catheterization. If even this attempt should fail, and if retention should persist, the bladder should be punctured above the pubis with a trocar, so as to permit, immediately or at a later time, a search for the vesical orifice, and the introduction through this orifice of a catheter which shall come out at the proximal end of the divided urethra. [Another plan is to open the urethra at the apex of the prostate, and therefore behind the usual seat of rupture, by what is known as Cock’s method,1 introducing a broad director into the bladder, and using this as a guide for the passage of the catheter.] Afterwards the patient may present himself with the ordinary consequences of a rupture of the urethra—stricture or fistulse. The treatment of these sequehe will be indicated hereafter. Traumatic Lesions of the Urethra produced from within outwards (False Passages).—When a foreign body is introduced roughly into the urethra, or when a fragment of calculus is arrested in this passage, more or less extensive lacerations are observed, followed or not by accidents. These lesions will be studied hereafter. At present we have in view only perfora- tions or contused wounds of the urethra, caused by instruments in catheteri- zation. It is to these lesions that the name “ false passages” is given. Pathological Anatomy.—The location of false passages is very variable. They have been found in all parts of the urethra, from the fossa navicularis to the neck of the bladder; but they are oftenest met in the deeper parts of the canal. Sometimes they are shallow, sometimes they penetrate more than ten centimetres into the depth of the tissues; most frequently they are incomplete, and end in a cul-de-sac; sometimes, on the contrary, after having burrowed out from the urethra, they find their way back into the bladder, and are then called “ complete.” It is rarely that false passages are found in a normal urethra, in which there is no obstruction to cathe- terization. Some, however, have been observed under these conditions, and this is the way in which they may occur: Either when the catheter has reached the cul-de-sac of the bulb, it is pressed straight on without the handle being lowered, when it pierces the lower wall of the canal and