1081 LATERAL CURVATURE OF THE SPINE. much employed in the present day. The principle upon which they act is by no means a bad one, and in a few cases I have employed a method of somewhat the same nature, and with some measure of success. The patient lies in the prone position upon a firm mattress; the pelvis is fixed by a belt which is itself attached by means of cords to rings fitted to the floor, or to heavy weights, so as to steady the body. The arms are fully extended, and a rod is grasped with the hands in such a manner that the patient can exercise a slight amount of self-extension of the spinal column. Upon the seats of curvature, bags of shot are laid along the sides of convexity, the weight being regulated by the feelings of the patient, and just such an amount of shot being used as can be borne with perfect comfort. By this method the vertebrae are pressed forward into position whilst the spine is slightly extended, and thus in a simple manner is obtained the action of the cum- brous spinal couch with its formidable-looking levers and extension-racks. The most effectual method of acting upon the displaced vertebrae is by manipulation ; this treatment, employed many years ago, has been almost entirely discontinued, yet to its use we are indebted for the first discovery of the fact that lateral curvature of the spine is something more than a mere lateral deflection of the column, for Dr. Dodds, in using manipulation, found that the vertebrae were twisted as well as displaced to one side. The use of manipulation, and the advantage thereby gained in the treatment of various other conditions of distortion, have been frequently described in this article; and the same agent, in my opinion, is of equal value in the treatment of lateral curvature, for no mechanical appliance can act with the same precision, and give such well-directed pressure, as the hand. The patient may lie in the same position as that described for the employment of weights during slight extension ; instead of acting upon the displaced vertebrae with bags of shot, an attendant steadily presses with the hand upon the convex side of the curve. The upper and the lower curves are worked at simultaneously, a hand being placed on each, commencing at the lowest vertebra and gradually going upwards through the curves, and continuing the exercise for about half an hour. The employment of manipulation, with the application of the lever spinal support, and the observance of the general rules laid down for the treatment of the early stage of curvature, constitute the most efficient plan to adopt for the relief of curvature existing in the conditions illustrated in Figs. 1502, 1504, and 1505 ; modifications in the treatment are required according to the seat and length of the curves. When there is either a long upper or a long lower curve, the precautions as to rest, etc., must be most strictly adhered to, for the greater the number of vertebrae consecutively involved in a curve, the greater is the risk of increase of the deformity, and the more necessity there is for relieving the spine from unequal compression. In the more advanced conditions of lateral curvature, reduction of the deformity can never be completely obtained, but usually a considerable amount of improvement can be effected by the use of mechanical appliances. The most suitable instrument to be used in such cases is that illustrated in Fig. 1510; this support consists of a framework somewhat similar to that of the lever instrument already described, the pubic belt and arm-crutches, with the hip-pieces, being the same in each appliance. Instead of the movable levers, a central bar of steel is carried up the back, being con- nected to the arm-crutches by two bands of steel passing across the scapulee. The acting portion of the appliance is found in two shields of strong jean, which can be tightened by means of a lace; these shields are attached to the side crutches and the central bar, and can be made to produce any degree of pressure upon the thorax and spine by lacing them up to the required tightness. From the strength of its framework, and from the ease with