1024 ORTHOPEDIC SURGERY. The reduction of the inversion of the foot, in a case of moderate severity,, usually takes about three weeks to accomplish. The method of treatment employed is very simple ; a flexible metal splint, well padded on one side and sufficiently long to reach from the knee to half an inch below the toes, with some soft narrow bandages, are all the mechanical appliances required. After the operation the foot is kept at rest, and in the state of deformity which was present before the tibial tendons were divided, for five days, at the end of which time the small punctures are quite healed ; the leg is then covered with a bandage from the toes to the knee, and the splint, bent at a point cor- responding to the ankle-joint, is placed on the outer side of the leg, and fixed by rolling the bandage around it and the limb, from the calf to the end of the toes. By gradually straightening the splint from day to day, the foot is brought out until it is in a line with the leg, and as soon as it will remain in this position without support, the case is converted into one of equinus, and the second stage of treatment may be entered upon. In cases of se- vere distortion, four or five weeks are required to overcome the inversion of the foot, and in no case should the treatment of the equinus be commenced until the distortion of the foot is completely relieved. Some surgeons, in slight cases of congenital varus, divide the Achilles tendon at the same time as the tibial tendons, but beyond saving a little time in the treatment of the- case, no advantage is gained by this method of procedure ; on the other hand, there is always the possibility of the distortion of the foot itself not yielding as readily to treatment as was at first anticipated, and should such happen in a case in which simultaneous section of the three tendons has been per- formed, the difficulties of treatment will be much increased; it is in my opinion much safer to divide the operation into two stages, in all cases of congenital varus which are sufficiently severe to require tenotomy at all. The second stage of the operative treatment adopted in congenital varus is the same as that already described for the treatment of talipes equinus, but the mechanical measures employed' are not quite the same, for it is not only necessary to overcome the extension of the foot on the leg, but care must also be taken to maintain the foot in its improved shape, and to prevent it from becoming again inverted. Tor the instrumental treatment of varus in this, stage, many different sorts of appliance have been invented and used with success; the particular form of instrument is of no great consequence, pro- vided that it is so designed as to enable the foot to be gradually flexed on the leg, and at the same time to prevent its relapsing to the condition of inver- sion. The splint which best fulfils these requisites is one introduced by Mr. Adams, and illustrated in Fig. 1476 ; it consists of thigh and leg trough- pieces, a and 6, connected by a free joint at a point corres- sponcling to the knee ; to the leg-piece is attached a plate for the foot, with a cog-wheel at d, which supplies the movements of flexion and extension ; a toe-wire with a strap is fixed to the front part of the foot-plate on its outer side. The method of applying this appa- ratus will be best understood by studying the drawing ; the same manner is followed of first fastening the heel, and then the thigh and leg, before placing the front of the foot in position, as has already been described when treating of the mode of applying Scarpa’s shoe in the treatment of talipes equinus ; with congenital varus, the further precaution has to be observed of keeping the sole of the foot well extended, and the inner border quite straight, by drawing the toes over to the outer side of the instrument, with the strap and toe-wire. Fig. 1476. Adams’s varus splint.