613 ORCHITIS. pinkish in color. This variety generally follows an acute attack, but orchitis may be chronic from the first. Reel us proposes to restrict the term chronic ■orchitis to a sclerosed condition of the testicle. This sclerosed condition, which tends towards atrophy, is rare after gonorrhoeal epididymitis, but not uncommon after an injury. An interstitial proliferation takes place, which contracts and obliterates the seminal tubules. The testicle or testicles, for they are at times both affected, enlarge slowly, and without pain, and are often much enlarged before the patient seeks the surgeon’s advice. The term atheroma testis has been applied by Forster to cases of chronic inflammation of the testicle. The sac of the tunica vaginalis propria is oblit- erated by adhesions, and the tunica albuginea is much thickened. A large cyst with several small ones is formed, and is filled with a semifluid, atheromatous pulp, containing crystals of cholesterin, oil globules, granular cells, and yellow pigment. The wall of the cyst is covered with vascular granulations, and is at times incrusted with calcareous matter. The lining material resembles granulation-tissue, but when closed the cyst does not secrete pus, but granular cells, which may be seen in all stages of fatty degeneration. The process begins by causing a hyperplastic thickening of several main septa, which cause by their contraction portions of the testicular parenchyma to become strangulated, and to undergo fatty degeneration. Chronic orchitis going on to suppuration was met with nine times by Billroth.1 The disease usually occurred in healthy men, between the ages of twenty-one and sixty, and generally without known cause, though in one instance it followed a blow. Abscesses slowly formed in different parts of the parenchyma, and became filled with cheesy pus and lined with spongy granulations. The testis usually was completely destroyed, the general health being unaffected. In two cases the disease, which was unattended by pain, had existed for twelve and fifteen years respectively. Twice the abscesses were opened up and scraped, and then healed. All the patients were free from pulmonary phthisis, nor was there any history of gonorrhoea or syphilis. This form of chronic orchitis can only be diagnosed by the history of the case; sometimes even by anatomical examination it cannot be distinguished from tubercular or syphilitic orchitis. Syphilitic Sarcocele, or Syphilitic Orchitis.—The best description of syphilitic orchitis, and the one generally adopted by writers, is that given by Virchow, in his work on the Pathology of Tumors. There are two forms of the complaint: the simple and the gummatous. In slight cases there is a chronic interstitial inflammation of the intertubular connective tissue, which is often associated with periorchitis (albuginite syphilitique of Ricord), and gives rise at times to a considerable, even cartilaginous, thickening of the tunica albuginea, associated with hydrocele. The cavity of the tunica vaginalis may become obliterated by complete adhesion of its walls. In interstitial orchi- tis, conical white bundles penetrate from the, thickened tunica albuginea to the interior, and the intermediate tissue becomes dense and callous. These bundles are often lobulated, and are at times confined to one portion, but at others are spread throughout the testicle. This white compact tissue causes the disappearance of the seminal tubes, which it replaces, and, contracting after the manner of cicatricial tissue, causes a depression on the surface of the gland. When the complaint is more intense, yellow gummatous tumors are devel- oped, sometimes in the thickened tunica albuginea, and at other times in the substance of the testicle itself. The jellow mass is seen clearly to result from the proliferation and subsequent fatty degeneration of the cells of the connec- 1 Clinical Surgery, New Syd. Soc., 1881.