861 GENERAL SYMPTOMATOLOGY OF ACUTE INFLAMMATIONS OF BONE. present believed that I had opened the joint, but I had done nothing of' the kind: the liquid was of bony origin. When I emptied the upper part of the tumor, some oil-globules were seen mingled with the ropy fluid. A stylet introduced into the sac revealed a small extent of denuded bone, a centimetre square at most. After having emptied the sac I closed the little wound by bringing its edges together, and it united. The joint remained untouched, and there was no threat of articular suppuration. The ropy liquid formed again in its periosteal sac, which opened spontaneously some months afterwards. There resulted a small fistulous track which conducted the stylet down to a small denuded portion of the juxta-epiphyseal region of the dia- physis. This portion was cast off afterwards in the shape of a small frag- mentary sequestrum, and the suppuration never invaded the synovial membrane, although the nearness of the osteitis had led to a slight propaga- tion of the inflammation to the fibrous tissues of the joint. Flexion of the knee was not complete. Between the transparent liquid with an albuminous appearance, and opaque creamy pus, all the intermediate forms may be met with; the albuminous liquid is often only the first degree of an inflammation which is going to end in suppuration; but not every sub-periosteal suppuration begins by the accumu- lation of an albuminous liquid in appreciable quantity. There is often found from the beginning, under the periosteum, pus looking like that which is found in other tissues. It is in liquids rapidly formed under the periosteum, or outside of it, that this serous or albuminous appearance is found. Several times, on opening collections of fluid over bone affected with acute inflamma- tion, with severe febrile phenomena, I have seen, instead of true pus, a sero- sanguinolent fluid, barely rendered turbid by a few leucocytes; and patients themselves sometimes mention, in their recital of their ills, the issue of a watery or slightly sanguinolent fluid. The presence of oil-globules may be noticed in these different liquids, what- ever may be their consistence; but in greater abundance in serous, than in thick and viscous liquids. These oil-globules are due to the trans- udation of the medullary fat in consequence of increase of intra-osseous pressure and rupture of the fat-vesicles. This transudation is produced experimentally when a stick is driven into the medullary canal of a long bone (Hartmann) immersed in a liquid at the temperature of the body. As the presence of oil-globules is far from constant in osteo-myelitis, the fat being speedily transformed in the inflamed tissues, it must be acknowledged that special physical conditions are necessary, the chief of which seem to be interference with the venous circulation and greater or less friability of the walls of the fat-cells. The conditions differ according as the inflammation comes on suddenly, with all its intensity, in a previously healthy medullary tissue, or as it declares itself in a medulla already influenced by a slight degree of irritation. In the latter case the fat has already gradually disap- peared, and the medullary cells are united by an intercellular substance more resistant and less suited to permit the passage of oil-globules through them. The medullary tissue, contained in an inextensible envelope, whether it be the medulla of the central canal or of the areolse of the spongy tissue, is especially disposed to strangulation as soon as it is inflamed. It cannot undergo the increase in size which is caused by hyperremia and inflammatory proliferation without being exposed to strangulation and mortification. Hence arise the deep and persistent pains which accompany acute or chronic inflammation of the medulla, and which have always attracted the attention of observers. These pains are of different types; they are called osteo- copic pains, and have been particularly described under this name in connec- tion with syphilis; but they are present more or less in all the acute or