INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. 548 Cases of diffuse inflammation of the scrotum were described by Mr. Liston1 as acute anasarca of the scrotum. Some mild cases are met with in adults,, in which the skin is pinkish, shiny, tense and oedematous; there is slight fever. The redness and swelling also affect to some extent the penis and groin. Most of the patients are in a debilitated state of health. In some cases, slight abrasions, sores, or eruptions situated in the groins, genitals, or insides of the thighs, or fistula about the perineum or anus, take on a violent, erysipelatous, inflammatory action; pus is formed, which, instead of becoming circumscribed and forming an abscess, is diffused throughout the cellular tissue of the scrotum, penis, and groins ; the constitutional and local symptoms are very acute, the patient being attacked with nausea and vomiting, and having a quick pulse and high temperature; locally the parts are painful, red, shining, and oedematous, and the rugee of the scrotum are quite obliterated. The swell- ing, which is great, passes into the penis and abdomen; the perineum will be free from swelling when no extravasation of urine has taken place, and a full-sized catheter can be passed. AY hen extravasation of urine is present, much the same symptoms will be noted, but there will be, in addition, a brawny swell- ing in the perineum, and a history of injury, or of stricture—such as difficulty in passing water, or retention of urine—when a catheter will demonstrate the locality of the lesion. In young children a stone may be impacted in the urethra, and give rise to irritation, retention of urine, and an abscess in the perineum with scrotal oedema. A sound will generally detect the stone, which must then be removed ; but when sloughing has taken place, the stone may slip into a pocket and elude the instrument. Mortification of the scrotum is most frequently caused by extravasation of urine following an injury to the penis or urethra, or from ulceration of the urethra due to a stricture or to an impacted calculus ulcerating its way out to the surface. Mortification is a sequel of diffuse cellulitis, when severe, and is liable to follow in patients debilitated by exhausting illnesses. The symptoms of diffuse inflammation become exaggerated, the parts becoming livid and violet-colored, and covered with asli-colored spots which are associated with an ill-smelling discharge. The scrotum but very rarely suffers from morti- fication caused by a frost-bite, but there is in the Anatomical Museum of St. Thomas’s Hospital a cast (Ho. 116) of a testis exposed by the sloughing of the scrotum after this accident; the penis was much swollen, as its absorbents were divided by ulceration. Mr. Curling has only met with one instance of frost- bite of the scrotum; the case was not a severe one; the patches of mortification were small and soon healed up. The most important point in the treatment of the cases we have been considering is to make early and free incisions into the affected tissues. The patient is to be confined to bed, the affected parts being kept well elevated. If the case is a bad one, a water-bed, to pre- vent bedsores, is most desirable. Carbonate of ammonium, bark, beef-tea, milk, eggs, brandy, etc., are to be given freely. Locally, the parts are to be fo- mented and poulticed; disinfectants, such as charcoal, carbolic acid, salicylic acid, iodoform, chloride of zinc, etc., are to be freely used ; and sloughs are to be removed as soon as possible. At a later stage of the case, stimulating lotions and ointments, and nitrate of silver, will be found useful. The testi- cles become satisfactorily covered when denuded of their envelopes by lacera- tion of tbe integuments, or after their loss by sloughing. Mr. Alexander Edwards2 met with a case in which the whole testicle protruded through an opening which followed a scrotal abscess. The testicle was returned, a 1 Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. xxii. p. 288. 2 Edin. Med. Journ., November, 1860.