29 DILATATION AND SACCULATION OF THE (ESOPHAGUS. Prognosis.—This is usually favorable, unless there be some serious disease of the nerve-centres, or of some other important organ. Treatment.—The first passage of the bougie often permanently cures the spasm. Should the relief be but temporary, the procedure can be repeated from time to time. Pelaxants, anodynes, and antispasmodics are indicated as medicinal remedies. The periodic warm bath is an excellent measure for children. Painting the pharynx with a weak solution of iodine or of silver- nitrate, every few days; deglutition of these substances in glycerine or in ointment; or their passage along the oesophagus on the probang, cures many obstinate cases. Electrization, sometimes successfully employed, is objec- tionable for the reasons indicated in speaking of oesophageal stricture. Paralysis of the (Esophagus.—This may be partial or complete. It may be, and often is, associated with paralysis of the pharynx, palate, tongue, or larynx, with so-called bulbar paralysis, and with general paralysis. Etiology.-—It may be due to disease of the oesophagus ; to mechanical restraint by external adhesions ; to disease or injury of the fibres of the pneumogastrie nerve; to external pressure; to neurasthenia from hemor- rhage or from protracted disease; to septic poisoning in syphilis, diphtheria, or plumbism. It may occur suddenly, from shock by fright, or from reaction by chilling the overheated body. Symptoms.—Partial paralysis may afford no symptoms at all. Dysphagia, deglutition easiest in the erect position, escape of saliva, and, towards the end, escape of fluids and food into the air-passages, constitute the charac- teristic symptoms. Diagnosis.—The differential diagnosis rests on the absence of pain and regurgitation, symptoms present in dysphagia from mechanical occlusion of the oesophagus. Auscultation of the bolus may indicate the position and extent of the paralysis. Prognosis.—This is favorable in idiopathic cases, and in those due to cura- ble diseases or injuries, especially when the paralysis is confined to the oesophagus; but recovery is rarely rapid. The prognosis is unfavorable under almost all other conditions. Treatment.—-Surgical treatment is restricted to the passage of the stomach- tube, when required to insure due supplies of nourishment. Preparations of strychnine are indicated for internal administration. Electric treatment is almost as likely to increase the paralysis as to diminish it, and internal electrization is liable to induce fatal syncope. Dilatation and Sacculation of the (Esophagus. Dilatation of the oesophagus, or oesophagocele, may be general or partial. General dilatation involves the whole of the oesophagus from pharynx to stomach, the organ often being stretched as well as dilated (complete general dilatation). Partial dilatation presents itself in three forms. (1) It may in- volve the greater portion of the oesophagus from the cardiac orifice to the cervical portion ; a form pathologically allied to general dilatation (incom- plete general dilatation). (2) It may be circumscribed—a limited, circum- ferential dilatation, forming an ampulla {annular dilatation). (3) It may in- volve but a portion of the periphery in a diverticulum or pouch {diverticu- lum, pouched dilatation, sacculation). General dilatation is usually fusiform or spindle-shaped, whether complete or incomplete, the greatest enlargement being where the normal diameter is greatest. Complete dilatation varies from