253 LITHOTOMY. Marianus did not, however, cut into the neck of the bladder. He coun- seled strongly against it, asserting that a division of the constricting muscles of the bladder would be unavoidably followed by incontinence of urine. The operation was essentially an incision in the left side of the perineum upon a grooved staff; by some operators it was made upon the extreme right. The urethra was opened to the breadth of the nail of the thumb, and the parts beyond were dilated and torn rudely with rough instruments. Some- times the stone was broken before extraction. Joannes de Romanis advocated this modification, but Marianus objected to it. Extraction was effected by forceps and scoop. Ottavien da Villa, a pupil of Marianus, came to France and communicated his method to the surgeon Laurent Colot, and Henry II., in 1556, created for the latter the position of Court Lithotomist. The Colot family retained the secret, and practised lithotomy as specialists for more than a hundred years, and it is related that in the seventeenth century the secret was stolen from Jerome Colot (who died in 1684), by some ambitious surgeons who bored through the ceiling of the operating room at La Charite, in order to watch the great operator at his work. They were not a little surprised and disgusted to find that the operation so long kept secret, was only a slight modification of the apparatus major of Marianus, which was every-where known. Thus it appears that the apparatus major was essentially urethrotomy with dilatation of the neck of the bladder and extraction of the stone, often after it had been broken, an operation which in our own day has been slightly modified, but much improved, as the perineal lithotrity of Lolbeau. After the adoption in the apparatus major of the staff, or itinerarium, all sorts of variations in the incision, external and internal, began to appear. Franco sustained the prejudices of his time, and feared to cut the raphe. His mind was actively occupied with devising better means for penetrating the bladder. He even suggested the use of a double cutting instrument re- sembling the double lithotome, which was then in use for enlarging wounds. With this he proposed to incise transversely the neck of the bladder, although there is no evidence to show that he ever actually did it. To Franco is ascribed remotely the origin of the lateral operation, somewhere near the middle of the sixteenth century, although to Frere Jacques undoubtedly the distinction more properly belongs. Franco, however, certainly did discover the supra-pubic operation, and described it quite graphically in 1561. He was at that time cutting habitually in the perineum, when it happened to him to be called upon to extract a stone as large as a hen’s egg from an infant two years old. He cut in the perineum and vainly tugged at the monster stone, but was unable to get it out, and then, actuated by the solici- tations of the parents and friends, who wished their child to die rather than suffer longer—and driven to it, as he himself confessed, by a false pride, lest he should be reproached with having been unable to get the stone away—he cut the child over the pubes, and the infant recovered. Attempts to fix the origin of the supra-pubic operation at a date earlier than this have failed, and historians now generally agree in giving Franco the credit of the origination of the operation in 1560. In 1581, Rosset first described a regular operative method of reaching the bladder by cutting above the pubis, but he never practised it; and although occasional cases are recorded, or alluded to (Pietre, Colot), and although there was considerable discussion about the operation, it was not until Frere Come, with his “sonde adard”and other accessories (12 in all, which he considered essential to the proper performance of the task), had operated a number of times between 1758 and 1779, that the operation took veritable shape. Frere Gome’s operation has been the one commonly employed up to a late date.