INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE BLADDER AND PROSTATE. 390 2 Op. eit., p. 351. 1 Lancet, June 24, 1882. the lungs, and that histologically the new growth was a large-cell spindle- celled sarcoma. The patient was 51 years of age. The following is a. description of the appearances:—- The prostatic portion of die urethra and neck of the bladder were entirely surrounded by a soft, encephaloid new growth, which formed a round, elastic swelling as big as a medium-sized orange, between the bladder and the rectum, and which had evidently commenced in the prostate. The growth was almost in a sloughy state, and so friable that it could be squeezed through an incision as easily as the contents of a sebaceous cyst. The bladder itself was fairly healthy. In children these growths usually advance with great rapidity, whilst in adults their progress may be slow. Symptoms.—As the disease has been known to occur in a prostate already hypertrophied, the early symptoms may be very obscure. They are gener- ally associated with some impediment to micturition. As a rule, the disease- develops with far greater rapidity than any other form of prostatic growth. There is irritability of the bladder, and often repeated and considerable hem- orrhages at the close of micturition. Rectal examination usually discloses some prostatic irregularity or outgrowth, very unlike what is met with in the innocent forms of enlargement. In addition, some glandular swelling may be detected. When the tumor assumes a considerable size, symptoms resulting from pressure on the rectum, such as a distended colon, may arise. Under these circumstances colotomy has been suggested.1 As the disease advances, the appearance to which the term “cancerous cachexia” has been applied, becomes marked. In the case observed in my own practice, to which I have referred, on passing a cath- eter for the purpose of exploring the bladder, the instrument became blocked with a brain-like substance, which could be afterwards squeezed through the urethra by press- ure on the prostate from the rectum. Scirrhous carcinoma is still less frequently observed than the encephaloid variety. Of my own personal knowledge, in a district which furnishes abundant cases of every form of cancer, I am aware of only three instances. Two occurred in my own practice in the Liverpool Royal Infirmary, the post- mortemand histological examinationshaving been made by Mr. Rushton Parker. Though presenting a resemblance to ordinary hypertrophy of the prostate, the induration of the gland, coupled with the discovery of secondary deposits—in one instance in the liver, and in the other in the lung—left no doubt as to the nature of the disease. The third instance I have elsewhere recorded.2 The distinguishing feature of scirrhus of the prostate is its extreme hard- ness, which is generally associated with irregularity in outline, as detected by rectal examination. The early symptoms of the disease are vague, and, beyond what may be revealed by the linger, are not distinguishable from those of prostatic hypertrophy. A case of colloid scirrhus of the prostate has recently been reported by Mr. S. Boydd The symptoms had extended over two years. The prostate was found infiltrated by a new growth, which extended back and implicated the bladder, leaving only the poste- rior part of that viscus unaffected ; both vesicul* seminales were filled with colloid ma- terial, and the opening of each ureter was situated at the summit of a nodule of the growth. The microscopical examination showed the growth to consist of a fibrous stroma, with numerous alveoli ; the stroma was nowhere so dense as in scirrhus of the breast; there was extensive colloid degeneration. In the treatment of malignant growths of the prostate, beyond relieving: the symptoms of obstruction to micturition which may arise, there is nothing 3 Trans. Path. Soc. Lend., 1882.