116 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE RECTUM. The patient being in the lithotomy position, the surgeon passes his finger through the stricture as a guide, then introduces a long straight knife, and, when its point is fully above the stricture, cuts firmly down right through it in its whole depth, even to the sacrum if necessary, and brings the knife out at the tip of the coccyx. By keeping to the median line the bleeding is but trifling, and the whole of the diseased structure will have been cut through. So rapidly beneficial is this operation that in forty-eight hours 1 have seen night-sweats arrested, and a patient who seemed about to die rally, and eat and drink, and get well from that moment; morbific discharges, instead of being absorbed, run out, and the patient is not poisoned. The wound should be well syringed, and the parts kept perfectly clean by injecting a very weak carbolic lotion (1 in 60). I always use dry absorbent cotton- wool as the dressing, sometimes carbolized, and I only want my patient washed at most twice in the day ; too frequent use of any fluid, carbolized or not, soddens and weakens the granulations; dry dressings are those which I advise. Many of these patients have done well, and I have a record of at least fifteen permanent cures; but in others the operation has failed, and I have seen a return of the disease after even three or four years. In the after- treatment I often place a tube in the wound, keeping it in at night, which tends to prevent contraction. Many of my cases have been treated by dilatation, assisted in some instances by small incisions; stricture of the rectum, however, is a disease infinitely more uncertain, more prone to relapse, and more difficult to treat, than stric- ture of the urethra. In some few cases, immense good has resulted from the long-continued administration of iodide of potassium and perchloride of mer- cury ; but on the other hand, often when it has been expected to be of benefit, no curative result has followed. On the whole, therefore, I place no great faith in specific remedies, although I always use them with tonics when I feel that the ulcerations are of syphilitic origin. On summing up my own cases, hospital as well as private, I can in brief state that in women rather more than 50 per cent, have suffered from un- doubted constitutional syphilis, and that in men about 40 per cent, have been in the same position. Among the causes of the ulceration, etc., in those who showed no evidence of syphilis, I may mention tuberculosis (not so uncommon as is generally supposed); dysentery and diarrhoea, usually following prolonged residence in tropical climates; obstinate, long-standing constipation; injuries to the uterus and vagina in parturition; and operations on the rectum in per- sons of bad constitution; but will these causes account for all the cases? I am obliged to say that I do not think so, and to confess that in many of these cases I do not know the cause. If we could answer the question why ulcera- tion and stricture are so much more frequent in the female than in the male, we should possibly have a clue; but for my part I cannot see that any satis- factory reply has been given to this question, more than it has to another, viz., Why is epithelioma comparatively seldom found in the rectums of women? In connection with this part of the subject, I may say that I am altogether at variance with some French authorities, such as M. Gosselin, and some eminent American surgeons, such as the late Dr. Erskine Mason, who hold that the vast majority of cases of stricture and ulceration, not cancerous, result from contamination by the discharges from “soft sores” or “chan- croids.” I have gone very carefully and fully into the consideration of this matter, and I cannot too strongly and emphatically express my opinion that the ulceration which leads to stricture is the result of tertiary syphilis, and not of chancroid. My experience of soft sores near the anus is that they speedily heal under proper treatment, and I have seen many cases cured in a few days by clean-