1173 HISTORY OF SURGERY. 1 Ibid., lib. ix. cap. 41. 2 Ibid., lib. ix. cap. 47. that this procedure has the sanction of no less than nine centuries. In drop- sies Haly disapproves in general of paracentesis. He says that he never saw it performed but once, and that then it failed to save the patient. He adds that Galen relates that he knew of but one case in which it had proved successful. Haly tells us to select a point, about three fingers’ breadth below the navel, in the linea alba. In enlargements of the liver, or the spleen, the puncture is made on the side opposite the diseased organ.1 In hydrocele, he directs us to open the tumor and dissect out its tunics, and then to apply incarnative dress- ings. This treatment, he adds, the moderns prefer to the escharotic applica- tions used by the ancients.2 In cases of imperforate pudendum, whether con- genital or the result of disease, Haly gives directions for an operation to be performed by a midwife. The delicate sense of the Arabians would seldom permit a man to perform a surgical operation about the genital organs of a woman.3 In imperforate anus, Haly directs us to make an opening, and intro- duce a piece of sponge or a leaden tube to prevent its closure. When an artery has been wounded in bleeding, the surgeon is directed to dissect away the surrounding parts, and, having applied a silk thread on each side of the wound, to divide the artery in the middle. In aneurism Haly makes a longitudinal incision, exposes the tumor and the vessel on each side of it, passes beneath the vessel a needle armed with a double ligature, ties it above and below, and lays open the sac and evacuates its contents. In fractures of the lower jaw, Haly advises that the teeth should be secured together with a ligature, before using compresses or bandages. He gives good directions for making splints of certain kinds of wood, shows how to avoid placing them over processes of bone, and forbids their use in fractures where inflammation is present. The above are a few selections from the surgical teachings of Haly Abbas ; the body of his work is a repetition of the surgery of previous ages. He cpiotes much from the Greeks, and generally acknowledges the sources from which lie has drawn his material. A perusal of his work will satisfy the reader that the principles and practice of surgery were fairly well understood in Arabia and Persia during the tenth century. The next surgical authority who in the order of time claims our attention, is Avicenna, surnamed the Prince of Physicians (980-1037). The Canon of Avicenna was to the healing art, for a period of over five hundred years, what the Koran was, and is, to the followers of the prophet of Islam. The works of Hippocrates, the vast medical commentaries of Galen, and the writings of Avicenna, have exercised a greater and a more continued in- fluence over the minds of medical men than any and all other authorities the world has ever produced. The classic works of this immortal triumvirate were, for many ages, the great store-houses of facts and observations, as well as the oracles, the code, the judicial authorities in everything that related to the nature and cure of all human maladies. The Canon of Avicenna accom- panied the armies of the Crusaders, and was still used as a text-book in the Universities of Louvain and Montpellier as late as the year 1650, or there- abouts. The multiple editions of this work which appeared after the art of printing was established, ■attest the immense popularity which it enjoyed in Europe from the fifteenth to the close of the seventeenth century. Avicenna, in common with all the Arabic surgical writers, drew largely from the works of his predecessors, adding some personal experiences, and much obscurity in the way of commentary. He was very partial to the use of the actual cautery, and employed it freely in many diseases. Cancer of the breast was treated by three methods: By corrosive applications, by burn- 3 Ibid., lib. ix. cap. 66.