LITHOTRITY. 229 contain more or less blood, and it is wiser before withdrawing the catheter to wash the bladder out with a hot borated solution. One passage of the catheter may be all that is required—or its use may have to be persisted in for several days. In the latter case, the bladder should be washed after each instrumental withdrawal of the urine, but if there be no retention, vesical irrigation is not called for in ordinary cases. (2) Urinary fever may complicate lithotrity. It is always announced by a chill, and full of uncertainty as to its issue. It may come on promptly, be attended by suppression, and end in speedy death. Generally, if the chill does not occur until near the end of twenty-four hours, the fever will not be very intense, and if its advent is postponed as late as the second twenty-four hours, little harm may be expected from it. Any chill occurring later than forty-eight hours is more likely to portend some graver complication than urinary fever, such as active cystitis or surgical kidney. When a chill occurs it is always a grave matter. Its significance is necessarily involved in doubt. It may be followed only by a slight rise in temperature, with a critical sweat, after which order is restored and no further annoyance ex- perienced, unless perhaps an outcrop of “fever-blisters” on the lips or else- where—an appearance always to be bailed with delight as indicating that the worst is over. On the other hand, the sweat following the fever may be de- lusive, higher temperature may succeed, and pytemia, cellulitis, surgical kidney, or some other grave complication may follow. It is presumed that all the precautions to avert urinary fever laid down in the section on preparation of the patient have been taken, but over and above these precautions, if the surgeon is at band when the chill occurs, a subcu- taneous injection of a small dose of pilocarpine and morphia may be given (gr. yL in Riv of Magendie’s solution), and a hot drink containing some ammo- nia or alcohol—more or less, according to the patient’s condition. Warm applications of various kinds may then be made, and the remainder of the treatment conducted symptomatically. The patient requires close watching. His temperature should be often taken, and any physical complication which arises to explain the chill dealt with according to its needs. After a chill, the patient should be kept upon quinine, gr. v-xxx daily. (3) Hemorrhage.—-Moderate hemorrhage is customary after lithotrity, and need cause no uneasiness. Occasionally it is excessive. Thompson has re- ported two fatal cases, in one of which villous growths in the bladder were the •cause, while in the other a post-mortem examination showed that “the whole mucous membrane of the bladder was greatly congested.” Generally the urine ceases to be bloody after a short time, and no special treatment is called for by the bleeding in any case, except an anodyne to quiet the con- tractions of the bladder, and warm borated irrigation, if retention or atony demands the use of the catheter. (4) Impaction of a Fragment in the Urethra.—This disagreeable accident ought never to occur. If the fragments left in the bladder are not small enough to pass easily, either the operation has been imperfectly done, or the case should have been treated by litholapaxy. But it is possible for a frag- ment to be left under any circumstances, and urethral impaction may ensue. If a fragment does become lodged in the urethra, the impaction is likely to take place at the bulbo-membranous narrowing of the canal, more rarely at the middle of the pendulous urethra, or near the meatus. In the first- mentioned situation it gives the most trouble, occasioning sometimes severe pain, and producing muscular spasm of the cut-off muscles even to the extent of causing retention. The removal of urethral calculi lias already been considered (page 178), and to that section the reader is referred for the different methods of remov-