VITAL AND ORGANIC LESIONS OF T1JE URETHRA. 461 purpose) the calibre of the stricture is ascertained. Finally, with the same bougie-a-boule which passes the stricture, the length of the latter may be determined by a very simple procedure. If, after having passed the stricture with the bougie-a-boule, this be gently withdrawn, its projecting shoulder, which is set almost perpendicularly to its axis, is arrested at the point where the coarctation ends. By measuring the length of the bougie introduced, from the base of the shoulder, the distance between the deep oritice of the stricture and the meatus is learned. The distance between the anterior orifice and the meatus being already known, it is only necessary to subtract the latter quan- tity from the former, to get the total length of the strictured portion. Thus, for example, if the first measurement, from the meatus to the anterior open- ing of the stricture, were thirteen centimetres, and the second measurement, from the meatus to the posterior opening, were fourteen and a half centi- metres, the conclusion would be that the length of the stricture was a centi- metre and a half. By the mode of exploration which has just been described, therefore, the position, length, and degree of narrowness of a stricture may be learned. It is obvious that the bougie-a-boule makes it possible, according as it is arrested once or encounters several obstructions, to recognize whether there is but one stricture or several; and in the latter case, the various manoeuvres already indicated will furnish data for determining the seat, the length, and the nar- rowness of each stricture. In addition to these data, Voillemier has thought that it would be possi- ble to recognize certain excentric strictures, limited to one part of the cir- cumference of the canal, by making use of a bougie terminated with a halt- bulb. Having reached the level of the strictured point, the surgeon, by turning the bougie between his fingers, could ascertain the wall upon which the constriction was placed. I have supposed, up to this time, that the stricture is permeable by the bougie-a-boule ; it will be understood that, in cases in which this condition does not exist, the data furnished by the bougie-a-boule are limited to estab- lishing the situation of the stricture, and that it becomes impossible to deter- mine what is the extent of the coarctation, and whether or not others exist, situated more deeply. Further, it is well to know that, while quite exact notions in regard to the number, the seat, the length, and the degree of nar- rowness of strictures of the urethra, may be arrived at by means of the bou- gie-a-boule, these notions are only approximative, though perfectly sufficient for the wants of practice. [If greater accuracy is needed, Dr. F. N. Otis’s ure- thrometer (Fig. 1331) may be employed.] I have elsewhere dwelt already upon the signs which make it possible to distinguish between a true coarc- tation of the urethra and spasm of this passage, or of the neck of the bladder, as well as hypertrophy of the prostate. These two affections are, indeed, the only ones which could be confounded with organic stricture ; all the more because, in the first especially—contracture of the neck of the bladder and of the urethra—in addition to the observation of functional troubles analo- gous to those of organic stricture, the results furnished by exploration with the bougie-a-boule seem identical at first sight, and require to be carefully interpreted if one wishes to avoid error.