256 URINARY CALCULUS. operation of Celsns was bilateral, the external incision being transverse, with the curved ends of the incision looking backward, while the aim of the in- ternal incision was to divide the neck of the bladder transversely. Ch a ussier and Beclard both had the idea of a double lithotome, and the latter in 1818 had such an instrument constructed, but he did not use it upon the living- subject, and to Dupuytren, in 1824, belongs the credit of having formulated and executed the bilateral operation as it exists to-day. The median operation dates back into the age of the apparatus major, where operations were done on one or other side of the raphe (para-rapheal). The deeper incisions have been variously modified, as in Civiale’s medio-bilateral method, but the median operation as practised to-day was first performed early in the present century by Manzoni, of Verona ; afterwards by Borsa and Rizzoli, also in Italy ; and more lately still by Allarton, in England. Markoe has been active in bis efforts to introduce it in this country. It has achieved a distinct'position among the recognized operations of lithotomy. The medio-lateral (Raynaud, 1824) and medio-bilateral (Civiale, 1828) were special operations which have not created for themselves any fixed position, while the quadrilateral cystotomy of Vidal (de Cassis), 1828, has fallen into entire and well-merited oblivion. The same may be said of the attempt to perform lithotomy with the thermo-cautery, introduced not long since by Mallez, and employed several times by him. Verneuil and Anger both tried it for the superficial incisions, and in this country, on one occasion, L. A. Stimson. The manoeuvre has no merit to recommend it, and many disad- vantages. Redo-vesical lithotomy remains to be considered. This is an operation which no longer finds a place in most text-books, yet its claims deserve notice in a historical way. In 1817, Sanson proposed two operations through the rectum; one above the prostate, through the trigone ; the other through the body of the prostate and neck of the bladder. The operation in either case is easy. The lower fibres of the rectum are cut in the middle line, upon a sound pre- viously passed, and having a central groove. Then the bas-fond is perforated, or the urethra just in front of the apex of the prostate, and a central incision is made along the groove of the sound, through the prostate in one case, one inch backward through the trigone in the other. A large stone may be readily extracted by this method, but difficulties in the way of closing the wound result. The operation has been nowhere received with general favor. One of its strongest defenders was Vacca Berlinghieri, in Italy, who divided a portion of the perineum as well as the rectal wall. Death or permanent rectal fistula has been found to be so constant a sequel of the recto-vesical operation, that it has, at the present day, few if any advocates. Section of the ejaculatory duct is a matter of necessity in the prostatic variety of this operation. The substitution of the ecraseur for the knife did not enhance its value. Sims proposed direct section of the bladder behind the prostate, and imme- diate application of metallic stitches. Schaeffer formulated rules for the per- formance of the operation and for subsequent suture, using the latter both for the method involving the prostate and for that interesting the trigone. He employed thread coated with rubber, instead of silver. Eo efforts have succeeded in establishing rectal lithotomy as a justifiable operation. Its sta- tistics are worse than those of the high operation, with the additional disad- vantage that, among those who recover, a certain proportion retain permanent fistulous communications between the rectum and the bladder or the urethra. A recent effort has been made by Bauer, of St. Louis, to advance this operation into general favor by detailing a case of recto-vesical lithotomy in