APPENDIX. 1196 of Hieronymus Fabricius ab Acquapendente, by Latinizing the name of bis place of nativity, was born in Hilden, near Cologne, in 1560, and died in the year 1634. He was the most eminent German surgical writer of the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries. He wrote a large number of treatises on different subjects relating to this department of the healing art. He was the first to collect and report interesting cases of surgical diseases and operations. Six centuries, as he styled each of his series of one hundred cases, were published at different times, and these, with his other treatises, were collected together and published, under the title of Opera Omnia, in a ponderous folio, in 1646, forming a work of great interest and value. About this time there was in- stituted in Germany a serial, annual publication, under the name of JEpheme- rides. It was continued for many years, and until medical and surgical journals were established. This work became the repository of many very important surgical cases, and constitutes a valuable addition to the surgical literature of the period. Johann Scultz, or Joannes Scultetus, was born atUlm in the year 1595, and died in 1645. He was an eminent surgeon, and author of a work on the instruments employed in surgery, which bore the title “Armamentarium Chirurgicum XLIII. Tabulis vEri elegantissime Incisis, etc.” It is a work that was of great importance, and so renowned that it was published in various languages and countries, and for a period of nearly a hundred years. Ho less than a score of editions were published from 1653 to 1748 ; two were in folio, five in quarto, and thirteen in octavo. It was first published at Ulm, in 1653, in folio, eight years after the death of the author. In the forty- three plates there are beautifully illustrated many hundreds of ingenious surgical instruments, both ancient and modern. Here can be seen almost all instruments, or at least the suggestion of nearly all, that are now used in surgery, among which are many that are in these days known by the names of very recent inventors. It is an old quarry which has been extensively worked. This is the pioneer of surgical “ armamentariums,” of which a large number have since appeared, mostly from instrument-makers to advertise their wares, Hot so, however, with the grand folio of Seerig, with its 145 plates containing over five thousand figures of surgical instruments (1835-8). The invention of gunpowder and of fire-arms marks an epoch in the history of surgery. While the soldier was struck with consternation by the whole- sale slaughter which resulted, the surgeon was equally dismayed by the mor- tality which was occasioned by this novel variety of wounds, and at the same time much perplexed and greatly baffled in his attempts to treat them. Pierre Dionis, a French surgeon, who wrote a treatise under the title of “ A Course of Chirurgical Operations,” which first appeared in 1707, thus speaks of the invention of gunpowder: “ Some ages since there came out of Hell a Monster, in the Habit of a Monk, who trying chymical experiments, invented a Com- position of Saltpetre and Sulphur, which we call Gunpowder. This diabolical invention,” etc. The great obstacle to the proper treatment of this class of wounds arose from the erroneous conception that gunpowder was poisonous, and that the velocity of the ball generated so great a heat as to destroy the tissues with which it came in contact in its course through any portion of the body or limbs. These errors were difficult to correct, and many years of time were required, unspeakable tortures were needlessly inflicted, and thou- sands of human lives were sacrificed, before the world learned to trust to nature, to cleanliness, and to simple dressings. Thus the treatment of wounds passed from the safer plan of expectancy, through the medium of charms, prayers, and incantations, to the course of barbarous interference, by the use of boiling hot oils, the actual cautery, and the vilest of irritating unguents.