INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE FEMALE GENITALS. 716 or more of these fistulse are united; thus the lesion may occupy the urethral and the vesical wall, and then the fistula receives the name of urethro-vesico-vagi- nal. Fig. 1403 represents diagrammatically three fistulous openings from the urinary into the genital organs, viz., urethro-vaginal, vesico-vaginal, and vesico-uterine. Congenital fistulse, designated as cloacal uro-genital fistula?, are omitted from this classification. Etiology of Uro-Genital Fistul2E.—Winckel,1 and recently Levrat2 has followed his example, divides uro-genital fistulse, in regard to their causes, into puerperal and non-puerperal; he includes among the former not only all those which occur in labor and in the lying-in state, but also those which may occur in pregnancy. This etiological classification seems arbitrary and of doubtful value, and it would be better to exclude from the class of puerperal fistulse those which occur before confinement. Probably eighty per cent, of all these lesions, requiring professional treatment, are produced in labor, although not becoming manifest in many cases until a few days afterwards. They usually result from the violent and continued compression of the tissues concerned between the child’s head and the mother’s pelvis; this compres- sion may be brief or protracted—in the majority of cases it is the latter—but even if it lasts only twenty or thirty minutes, the death of tissue may be as certain as if it had continued for hours. The obstetric forceps has some- times been unjustly reproached as the cause of the injury; but when we remember that the blades of this instrument are most frequently applied with reference to the sides of the mother’s pelvis, the improbability of their causing this lesion is obvious. Moreover, the statistics of Emmet, including 202 cases, show that in less than fifty per cent, of cases of puerperal fistulae has the forceps been used, delivery in the majority having occurred without instrumental aid. Emmet furthermore positively asserts that he has “never met wifh a case of vesico-vaginal fistula which, without doubt, could be shown to have resulted from instrumental delivery.” The accident is not limited to cases of cranial presentation, but has occurred in labors where the shoulder or the pelvis has presented. Bandl3 states that the long duration of labor in a narrow pelvis, or the unyielding condition of the soft parts, is by far the most frequent cause of these fistulse. All authorities agree that accumulation of urine in the blad- der is an important factor in causing the injury; and Emmet urges that, before instrumental delivery, the bladder should be emptied by aspiration, if the introduction of the catheter is impossible, in case there is impaction of the presenting part. In a very large proportion of cases the urine has not escaped from the fistulous opening until some days after delivery, but in some the escape has been observed immediately after. Beside impaction of the head, or other presenting part, in labor, leading to necrosis of the tissues, other causes of this accident have been wounds of the vesico-vaginal wall by fragments of the foetal skull, in craniotomy, and the accidental opening of a cystocele which had been mistaken for the bag of waters. Deroubaix4 refers to ulcerations occurring in the puerperal state as causes of these lesions; he says that while such ulcerations may be observed in an otherwise normal condition of the subject, and generally have their origin in some wound made in delivery, yet that the danger of loss of sub- stance is much greater in epidemic puerperal fever. 1 Die Kranklieiten der weibliclien Harnrohre und Blase. (Billroth’s Handbuch.) 2 Nouveau Dictionnaire de Medecine et de Cliirurgie Pratiques, tome xxxviii. 3 Real-Encyklopadie der gesammten Heilkunde. * Traite des Fistules Uro-Genitales de la Femme.