783 PUERPERAL LAPARO-CYSTOTOMY, ETC. According to the researches of Prof. Richard Worth, of Kiel, Germany, made in 1884, there have been 17 true primary operations with 15 deaths, the two non-fatal ones having been performed within ten years. It is true that the late Dr. Parry recorded in his work on “Extra-uterine Pregnancy” 20 “primary” operations with 6 recoveries, but his definition of “primary” does not express the meaning generally attributed to the term, and his six recoveries do not all belong to the primary class, even according to his own understanding of it. As the term is used in this article, not one of his six was primary, as is shown by a careful examination of the original reports. Two of the cases were one and the same, one was evidently uterine, and the other three were unquestionably secondary. In no instance has a woman been saved after a primary operation performed when the foetus was at full maturity; the two successful operations took place early in the eighth month ; I give the reports in abstract:— Case I 1875. Operator, Mr. Jessop, of Leeds, England.1 This case is well known, and I shall only refer to it very briefly. The patient was a quartipara of 26, and pregnant about 7^- months. The diagnosis of her condition was evident, as the feet, nates, and spine of the foetus could be distinctly felt under the median line of her thin abdominal wall ; and the dangers which threatened her life were such that an opera- tion was regarded as imperative. She was emaciated, feverish, and constipated, had a dry tongue, great thirst, and a rapid feeble pulse, and vomited after everything swallowed. The operation was performed on August 14, 1875. The foetus sat vertically in the abdomen, with its head under the stomach, and there was no trace of a cyst. The placenta covered the pelvis like a lid, and extended upward posteriorly. The child, a female, was living, and did well until eleven months old, when it died of croup and pneumonia. The cord wras cut and secured in the lower angle of the abdominal wound. Bloody discharges commenced after five days, and esdS^ed at the rate of from one to ten ounces a day. On the eighth day the fluid became ofSJsive, being thick, like treacle, dark, and grumous. Vomiting occurred from the tenth to the fifteenth day. The cord was thrown off in twenty-one days, and six or eight ounces of fluid followed its removal. During the fourth and fifth weeks the patient had attacks of agonizing abdominal pain, twm, three, and four times in twenty-four hours, which w'ere relieved by an outpouring of coffee-colored putrescent fluid, sometimes to the measure of half a pint, and un- bearably offensive. The placental slough came aw'ay in a month, at which time for four days there were symptoms of a slight crural phlebitis on the right side. After the placenta came aw'ay the discharge became purulent, and gradually diminished in quan- tity. The wound closed in seventy-six days, and the woman finally recovered her health. She was no doubt saved in her worst condition by being fed by the rectum. The case was treated in hospital. Case II. 1881. Operator, Prof. August Martin, of Berlin, Germany.2 I am in- debted to Prof. Werth, of Kiel, for kindly sending me the reference to this case. The subject of the operation was 39 years old, and pregnant for the third time ; she was moderately robust, and does not appear to have been in any immediate danger, as was Mr. Jessop’s patient. Prof. Martin operated on July 9, 1881, when she had been preg- nant seven months. When the cyst w'as exposed, it w'as found to be crossed in front by a portion of adherent intestine, which required to be dissected off. The foetus was a male, with a large encephalocele of the occiput, and flat feet. It barely showed signs of life, breathed feebly, and its long, thin cord pulsated. The placental attachments w'ere such that the operator w'as able to cut off its vascular supply witli three ligatures, after which he readily peeled off the placenta and removed it, making the case one of laparo-cystectomy, and thus removing the main source of danger. The operation lasted one and a quarter hours, by which time the woman was in a state of moderate collapse, but rallied and made a good recovery, there being no period of anxiety during ber con- valescence. A drainage-tube was inserted, but removed in a week ; the discharges 1 Trans. Obstet. Soc. London, vol. xviii. pp. 261—277. 1876. 2 Berliner klinisclie Woclienschrift, No. 52, 26 Deo. 1881, S. 776, 777.