INJURIES AND DISEASES OE THE BLADDER AND PROSTATE. 350 urged by Dr. R. F. Weir,1 who in a brief history of the operation furnishes a table of forty-seven cases, with the following results: By median perineal section, there were ten cases, six patients being cured, three relieved, and •one dying. By the lateral section there were thirty-two cases, thirteen patients being cured, four relieved, and eleven dying, while in four cases the operation failed. By the bilateral section there were five cases, four ending in cure, and one in death. In the selection of the precise mode of proceeding, the median incision will be found to have an advantage by reason of its greater immunity from hemorrhage. Care, however, must be taken, when it is ■adopted, to secure urinary incontinence for some days at least, either by in- serting through the wound a lithotomy tube by which urine can constantly escape, or by over-distending the prostatic urethra with the finger, or with a dilator. Where the lateral incision is practised, incontinence naturally fol- lows, as after the removal of a stone from the bladder in this way. Dr. Hayes Agnew2 has suggested that, in hopeless cases of chronic cystitis, the patient might be made comfortable by separating the connection of the ureters with the bladder, and bringing them out through the abdominal walls, estab- lishing fistulie either in the iliac or in the lumbar region, and thereby divert- ing the urine entirely from the bladder. Dr. Agnew supports this very formidable suggestion by a reference to the experience of persons suffering from certain urinary fistulie occasioned by accident. Though the feasibility of such a proceeding has been tested on the dead subject, it has not hitherto been illustrated clinically. Ulceration of the Bladder. This is an occasional result of inflammation. I have known it occur as a consequence of the retention in the bladder for some days of a catheter ill adapted for the purpose. Most frequently it happens in bladders which have become inflamed whilst in a paralytic condition, when it is probably associated with some changes in the spinal cord. Where catheterization is employed under these circumstances, extreme care is necessary in consequence of the insensitive condition of the patient, not to occasion any damage to the mucous membrane of the bladder which may lie followed by ulceration. Hilton3 re- fers to a case of this kind, in which, after death, three ulcerated patches were found at points corresponding with those which the catheter touched daily. The same author al*> relates a case in which a patient was in the habit of daily catheterizing himself. One day, on being sent for, Mr. Hilton found him dying of peritonitis brought on by perforation of the bladder. After death a perforated ulcer was found corresponding with the very spot upon which the end of the catheter must have pressed. Similar care is required to avoid any- thing like continuous pressure on the vesical wall when a catheter has to be retained. The possibility of ulceration of the bladder, when associated with ■stricture of the urethra, being followed by rupture and extravasation of urine into the surrounding tissues, should not be lost sight of. Though such an -occurrence is extremely rare, there are instances in which it is most likely that this took place. This was probably the nature of the case recorded by Dr. T. K. Cruse.4 Exfoliation of the mucous membrane of the bladder has occurred in association with ulceration. Cases5 are recorded in which the entire lining has 1 On Cystotomy for Cystitis in the Male, New York Med. Journ., June 12, 1880. 2 Philadelphia Medical Times, Feb. 12, 1881. 3 Guy’s Hospital Reports, 3d series, vol. xi. A Rupture of the Bladder dependent on Stricture of the Urethra. Medical Record, Aug. 1, 1871. '■* Trans. Path. Soc. Loud., vol. xv.