ORTHOPAEDIC SURGERY. 1020 dition of the ligaments. Of the bones, the os calcis is affected chiefly as regards its position, which is so changed that the long axis of the hone, instead of being horizontal, is directed vertically, the posterior surface point- ing upwards and a little outwards, whilst the anterior surface is turned downwards and slightly inwards; in shape the bone is not altered. The astragalus is thrown forwards and downwards, so that its superior articular surface, which is normally in direct relationship with the under surface of the tibia, appears on the dorsum of the foot, while the anterior articulating sur- face, which enters into the formation of the astragalo-scaphoid joint, is directed downwards and inwards ; the inward direction of the head of the bone is contributed to by the neck being slightly twisted that way, an interesting •change in the shape of this bone which was first described by Adams.1 The scaphoid bone is greatly displaced: not only does it follow in direction the head of the astragalus, but it is still further pulled away from the articular surface thereon, in a direction upwards, inwards, and backwards, so as to be brought into apposition with the internal malleolus; the anterior surface of the scaphoid thus points inwards instead of forwards, and its posterior surface outwards instead of backwards; the tubercle on its inner surface is also directed upwards, and its outer surface is turned downwards. The other bones of the foot—the cuboid, cuneiform, and metatarsal bones— merely adapt themselves in position to the changed situation of the os calcis and scaphoid. The ligaments are naturally affected by the marked change in the shape of the foot; their points of attachment are, according to their position, either more closely brought together or unduly separated; the former is the case with the deltoid or internal lateral ligament, the plantar fascia, and the ■calcaneo-cubold and calcaneo-scaphoid ligaments of the sole; as a consequence, these ligaments are all shortened and contracted, while the astragalo-scaphoid ligaments and the anterior ligament of the ankle-joint are stretched and weakened. The m uscles of the leg and foot are generally well developed in cases of con- genital talipes varus, but those which by their action extend and adduct the foot upon the leg are structurally shortened and contracted. The gastro- cnemius and soleus muscles are in this respect affected to a degree which corresponds to the amount of equinus existing in the particular case of de- formity ; when the heel is much raised, the tendo Achillis is firmly con- tracted and somewhat displaced to the outer side of the leg. The tibialis posticus and anticus muscles are shortened to an extent depending upon the amount of inversion and adduction of the foot which is present; the former is usually very tense, and its tendon is considerably displaced, for, owing to the changed position of the scaphoid bone, it passes directly downwards to its point of insertion ; the tibialis anticus is also affected in the same manner from the altered situation of the cuneiform bones, and its tendon is deflected considerably to the inner side of the leg and foot. The other muscles of the leg present no peculiarities deserving especial notice except in cases of severe deformity, when the extensor proprius pollicis is somewhat contracted, while the extensor longus digitorum and peronei muscles are small and ill- developed. Etiology of Congenital Varus.-—Much difference of opinion has existed amongst authorities as t'o the etiology of congenital varus: the principal theories of causation that have been advanced are, the influence of maternal impression, the pressure of the uterus, arrest of development, and the exist- ence of nervous disturbance. The influence which maternal impression may 1 Op. cit., page 152.