DIFFERENT CLINICAL FORMS OF SPONTANEOUS OSTEITIS. 867 skeleton; but it is sometimes met with after the consolidation of the epiphyses. Apart from traumatisms, I have seen, in patients of thirty or forty years, a number of cases of suppurating osteo-myelitis of the tibia, humerus, etc., which occurred with the grave phenomena of osteitis of adolescence. In 1865 I resected the lower end of the femur in a man thirty-eight years old, in whom I found the epiphysis detached. The symptoms were amelio- rated for several days after the operation, but the patient died on the tenth day from hemorrhage. Separation of the diapliysis from the epiphysis in adults, although the whole of the connecting cartilage may have disappeared, is made possible by the per- sistent independence of the lamellar system of the spongy tissue ; at any age, up to the most advanced, the trace of the connecting cartilage may be recog- nized. It is represented by an ossified line, which keeps its direction exactly, and which separates the longitudinal system of lamelbe of the epiphysis from those of the diapliysis. The circulation goes on unequally in these different parts of the bone ; the epiphysis is less vascular, while the circulation is more active in the juxta-epiphyseal portion of the shaft. This is what makes the latter region always a seat of election for osteitis even in adults. We have already seen how much reservation is necessary as to the nature of the agent which produces infectious osteitis, and even as to the mechanism of infection. The study of post-febrile osteitis shows, in fact, that there are numerous conditions in which multiple inflammations of the bones may be developed simultaneously or successively under the influence of general infec- tion. All the eruptive fevers—measles, variola, and especially typhoid fever— may be followed by multiple osteitis, which comes on either at the time of evolution of the disease, during convalescence, or some time afterwards* In these different affections there is an alteration of the blood which, dur- ing the period of growth, particularly predisposes to affections of the bones. In all times observers have pointed out the gravity of measles in children in this respect, and many affections of the bones are, in popular theory, referred to attacks of measles or other febrile affections in childhood. These attacks of post-febrile osteitis differ very much in their course, and are of unequal severity. There are some which are benign; some are sub- acute, and some even chronic; while others are met with which are of the greatest gravity, which progress rapidly, invade successively different bones, and are from the commencement accompanied by septic and pysemic compli- cations. This difference in course indicates a difference in nature, and, in certain cases only, an inequality of infection or a greater resistance of the soil in which the morbid germ may have its evolution. The forms of osteitis which are developed in the course of fever and without any appreciable occasion, are those in which infection plays the principal part. Those which occur during convalescence, or after recovery, are often produced by a slight traumatism or by cold. These causes, which would be insufficient in a healthy subject, cause juxta-epiphy seal inflammations in one weakened by disease, who is thereby made to offer less resistance to cold, and in whom, besides, the solidity of the skeleton is diminished, as much by the feebleness of the muscles as by the, alteration of nutrition which the bone-tissue has under- gone during the febrile period. During convalescence, a fall, or a violent movement, may produce juxta- epiphyseal strains which cause those forms of chronic osteitis that develop slowly and are afterwards taken for scrofula. The same causes (traumatism, susceptibility to cold), in convalescents, lead to the development of tuberculosis, to which they may be predisposed by their hereditary antecedents. Under