DIFFERENT CLINICAL FORMS OF SPONTANEOUS OSTEITIS. 863 been compelled to recognize the good foundation of the popular belief which attributes these pains to growth itself. When children are intelligent enough to give an account of their sensations, they assign these pains to the juxta-epipliyseal regions; sometimes, however, they point out a part of the shaft more or less remote from the epiphyses; and in some cases—in the hip, for instance—they indicate the joint as the seat of pain. These different seats of pain are explicable by what I have already said about the organs of growth of the bone. If the most active zone of physio- logical proliferation is found at the juxta-epipliyseal region, it must not be forgotten that under the periosteum, all along the diaphysis, there is a deposit, continuous although unequal in its different parts, of osseous layers for the increase in thickness. On the other hand, there are diaphyseal ex- tremities, that is to say, juxta-epipliyseal regions, which are found included inithe joint itself; and the hypersemic process of which they are the seat may easily be confounded with a pathological process in the articulation; hence arises in these regions, in the hip, for example, an inevitable confusion of osteitis and arthritis. Growing pains are usually apyretic. In the evening, after having played all day, or having been fatigued in one wTay or another, the child complains of more or less acute pains in the bones. There is no appreciable heat or swelling; sometimes a little heat. The child goes to bed, and the next day the pains are gone. At other times these pains continue several days, or at least return at different intervals, and then go off as they came. Finally, under other circumstances, the pains invade a number of joints simultaneously, or the same joints in the two limbs, and are accompanied by a more or less marked febrile movement. This transient condition is distin- guished from ephemeral fever, with pains in the limbs, by the fact that the pains are here more acute, and that they are fixed in the juxta-epipliyseal parts. The mistaken tendency to attribute to growth the majority of the diseases of children, which prevailed at one time, has brought distrust on the theory of the pains and fever of the growing period. It cannot be denied, however, that these pains exist, with the characteristic of having a juxta- epiphyseal location ; but the significance of the febrile movement which often accompanies them might form a subject for long discussion. Is it an inde- pendent febrile state, occurring accidentally, and coinciding with an increased growth in the skeleton ? Or is it a fever having its source and cause in the organic process which takes place in the zones of growth of the bone ? What gives greater weight to the former theory, is that growing pains are often associated with fatigue, violent exercise, chilling, movements which produce juxta-epipliyseal strain; in a word, with all the causes which, carried a degree further, may produce a true inflammation of the hone. Act- ing in a slight degree, these causes induce slight hypersemia, or a few tissue- lesions which are easily reparable; pushed further, and occurring in a sub- ject predisposed to morbid processes by hereditary antecedents or alteration of the general health, they are the commencement of those forms of acute or chronic osteitis which we shall study hereafter. There is scarcely a child which, in the course of its growth, has not had to complain of these pains, which are most frequently located in the lower limb, particularly above or below the knee; they are observed especially at the time of the sudden advances which occur in the period of growth, and which are evidenced, in some cases, by an increase in height of from twelve to fifteen centimetres a year. While more frequent in the lower limbs, they ai-e also observed in the upper: at the upper extremity of the shaft of the humerus, the lower end of the radius, etc. But, as I have just said, this exaggeration of the physiological fluxion to