1019’ CLUB-FOOT. Congenital Varus.—This presents many degrees of distortion, but the char- acteristic features of the deformity are that the foot is adducted, inverted, and extended: the adduction and inversion consist chiefly of displacement of the forepart of the foot from the astragalus and os calcis; the extension is mainly due to altered relationship of the foot with the leg. The forepart of the foot is so changed in position that the sole is turned backwards, and the dorsum forwards, and that the toes point directly inwards; the inner border is twisted upwards, and forms about a right angle with the inner surface of the leg; the outer border is directed downwards. The heel is raised, and is unnaturally small in size; the outer malleolus is unusually prominent, whilst the inner malleolus is partially hidden by the inverted foot, and is also often ill-developed. The integument of the foot is implicated in the deformity ; on the inner border it is tense and shiny in appearance, bearing some resemblance to cicatricial tissue, and there is frequently a deep sulcus which runs into the sole of the foot and corresponds to the position of the transverse tarsal joint; along the outer border, and on the dorsum, the skin is loose and apparently over-abundant, whilst at the heel, usually on the inner side and just above the insertion of the tendo Achillis, there occurs a second sulcus with contraction of the superficial tissues. From the above description it will be seen that congenital varus consists really of the combined forms of varus and equinus; the extent to which these conditions of deformity may exist is, however, very variable, as may be observed from an examination of the following figures, taken from casts of the distortion. Fig. 1473 illustrates a condition of slight varus with an Fig. 1473. Fig. 1474. Fig. 1475. Congenital talipes varus with Congenital talipes varus with Congenital talipes varus with extreme equinus. extreme varus. severe equinus and varus. extreme degree of equinus, the deformity here consisting chiefly of extension of the foot on the leg; Fig. 1474 shows a marked state of varus with but little elevation of the heel, the principal distortion being at the transverse tarsal joint; Fig 1475 represents a severe degree of both varus and equinus. Anatomical Changes in Congenital Varus.—The changes in the anatomical structure of the foot which occur in congenital varus, consist in an alteration in position and shape of some of the bones, together with an abnormal con-