612 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. practised by Mr. Henry Smith; that it gives instant relief there is no ques- tion. The testicle does not, it is true, form the chief hulk of the swelling, hut that it is not at all affected has not been demonstrated. MM. Demarquay and Salleron were certainly unfortunate in their experience. The objections urged against the proceeding seem based upon theory rather than experiment. That a testicle will waste after acute inflammation, however caused, is not questioned, and if a puncture will relieve the inflammation, its influence must be for good and not for evil. Treatment by Compression.—Since Dr. Fricke, of Hamburg, first advocated the treatment of orchitis, whether acute or chronic, by compression by means of strapping, his method has become universal, since the relief of pain, and the diminution of the swelling by absorption, ai’e undoubted. Some surgeons apply the strapping in acute cases; others wait until the acute symptoms have subsided. Care must be taken lest the strapping cause irritation or sloughing of the scrotum. Very effective compression may be made by using Esmarch’s or Martin’s elastic bandage. An instrument has been designed by Dr. O. N. White,1 for securing safe and pain- less pressure on the testicle in cases of orchitis. It is made of hardened rubber, perfo- rated with holes, as thin and as light as possible. The swollen testicle is placed within a shell-shaped shield, down the front of which a cleft runs which allows the two thin edges to overlap, and the pressure is regulated by means of a lace passed through small holes. Professor Thiry,2 of Brussels, has, for thirty years past, treated acute orchitis by methodical compression of the testicle. He applies a starched bandage combined with a spica of the groin, enveloping almost all the abdomen, and acting directly on the cord, which is swollen and tender, by means of graduated compresses. The patient is kept in bed, and given small doses of bromide of potassium and opium every three hours. In five or six days the dressing is changed for a suspensory bandage, and in a few days more the patient is well. Acute inflammation of a testicle retained in the groin gives rise to a swelling like an inflamed inguinal gland, or a strangulated inguinal hernia; the scrotum on the affected side will be not only empty, but probably unde- veloped. The treatment should be energetic, lest the peritoneum inflame, and should be carried out as already described. A puncture in a ease of this kind would be advantageous, as it would give early relief, and if followed by wasting of the gland no harm would result. Chronic Orchitis.—Acute orchitis is, as a rule, followed by resolution; the chronic form of the complaint is generally due to tertiary syphilis, and may be the only symptom of the disease present. Chronic epididymitis may be the sequel of an acute inflammation, or it may be chronic from the commencement. The epididymis becomes increased in size, and hard to the touch. .Obliteration of the canal is often present, and although it may occur at any part of the epididymis, is most common at the tail, where may be felt a hard fibrous nodule, which gives rise to a dilated condition of the canal. The swelling, unlike that caused by tuber- culous deposits, is smooth, and not irregular and bossy. A hydrocele may be present, of a size sufficient to obscure the swollen epididymis. Reclus attaches much importance to the fact that the loop and sulcus formed by the vas deferens can be distinctly defined. Chronic orchitis gives rise to but slight pain and swelling of the testicle, the surface of which is irregular. The seminal fluid is said to be slightly 1 Boston Med. Journ., vol. cii. p. 99. a Presse Med. Beige, 5 Nov. 1876.