(973) TUMORS OF THE BONES. BY A. PONCET. PROFESSOR OF OPERATIVE SURGERY IN THE FACULTY OF MEDICINE OF LYONS. TRANSLATED BY CHARLES W. DULLES, M.D., SURGEON FOR OUT-PATIENTS TO THE HOSPITAL OF THE UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA, AND TO THE PRESBYTERIAN HOSPITAL IN PHILADELPHIA. Among surgical affections, tumors of the bones are quite common lesions, ancl the same neoplasms are met with in bone-tissue as in the soft parts. It is hard to classify these tumors satisfactorily. Pathological anatomy, taking into consideration the elements which compose them, their form, and their disposition, furnishes many distinctive signs which are of great importance; but there are certain problems of which it cannot yet be expected to furnish the sole solution. The grand and eminently practical division of tumors into benign and malignant, should then be maintained for the neoplasms of bone. Indeed, whatever may be the progress realized in the domain of pathological his- tology, it is important not to lose sight of the fact that it cannot at the present time furnish by itself a positive indication of the course, evolution, and prognosis of a tumor. Clinical surgery can see in it only a new means of investigation, and, under the present order of things, is most often obliged to draw its materials for judgment from signs long familiar. Yet if we seek to class tumors of the bones in the ranks of benignity or of malignity, we shall not be long in discovering that, as is also the case in every general classification of tumors, a variety which is usually benign may, under some more or less well-defined circumstances, become malignant. The name of the tumor alone—myxoma, chondroma, sarcoma, for example—-cannot furnish sufficiently exact indications in regard to its evolution. Thus a chondroma of the phalanges, or of the metacarpal bones, may for long years, or even during the whole life, cause only functional disturbances, while a chondroma of the lower end of the femur, or of the upper end of the humerus, may rapidly increase in size and behave like a malignant tumor, infecting the whole system, and often becoming generalized. I could multiply illustrations of this sort in regard to sarcoma, as it occupies the gums, the edges of the alveoli, or the ends of the long bones ; but I shall have occasion to return to facts of this nature. What it is important to know is, that tumors of the bones behave differently, and have a different prognosis, according to the age of the patient and his hereditary condition, and according to the seat of the lesion and the particular bone affected. Considering only pathological anatomy, tumors of the bones include: exostoses, fibromata, myxomata, lipomata, chondromata, osteoid tumors,