CLUB-FOOT. 1007 as to the occurrence of this deformity at birth, are set at rest. The cases quoted by Dr. Little are of especial value, since in two instances the subjects were the sons of a surgeon; the eldest child of the family was affected with the deformity, and was treated with success by Dr. Little, and the youngest and eleventh child was also born with equinus, which, although not of a severe grade, was sufficiently marked to necessitate the employment of me- chanical treatment for its relief. A case of congenital equinus has never come under my own notice, but on page 1019 (Fig. 1473) will be found an illustration of equino-varus existing at birth, and in which the complication of varus was very slight indeed—only sufficient to warrant the classification of the case as one of equino-varus and not of simple equinus. Paralytic Equinus.-—The most common form of non-congenital talipes equinus results from paralysis of the extensor muscles of the toes, the pecu- liar liability of which muscles to become affected in infan- tile paralysis has already been alluded to. The condition of the foot in this particular form of the affection will be found to vary according to the nature of the muscular defect; Fig. 1465 illustrates the external appearances pre- sented in one variety of the distortion. In this case the foot was extended to an extreme degree upon the leg, the heel was raised, and the dorsum was directed forwards and slightly downwards; such a condition results from com- plete paralysis of the flexor muscles of the foot, the power of flexion being thus lost, and the foot falling into the position of full extension. When the cast of the foot, from which this drawing is copied, was taken, the paralysis had existed for about four years, during which time no recovery of the affected muscles had taken place ; and from the unbalanced action of the gastrocnemius and soleus muscles the heel had become raised, and the foot extended much beyond the normal degree. It will be noticed that the toes were di- rected somewhat backwards, and that the arch of the foot was unnaturally deep; in walking, the foot became folded up so that the front of the toes and part of the dorsum of the foot were placed on the ground, and, had the deformity re- mained unrelieved, the foot would gradually have become retroverted on the leg, the sole being directed upwards and backwards, and the dorsum of the foot turned directly downwards. The condition of equi- nus here represented is the least common variety of the paralytic affection; as a rule, the flexor muscles partially regain their power of contractility, or they are not completely paralyzed when first attacked, in which cases the foot presents different characters of distortion. The partial restoration of the extensor longus digitorum and proprius pollicis muscles, causes the toes to be drawn up towards the dorsum of the foot as shown in Fig. 1466 ; the parts of the foot which then reach the ground are the ends of the metatarsal bones and the extremities of the toes, and on the surface of the skin corresponding to the ends of the metatarsal bones, the cuticle becomes hardened and thickened to much the same condition as that of the normal heel. The weight of the body is carried directly through the foot, and from the pressure thus thrown upon it the arch becomes greatly deepened, and the sole of the foot is much shortened. This shortening of the foot is entirely a mechanical process, and is not due to active contraction of the muscles and fasciae of the sole, although these tissues acquire a condition of confirmed contraction from their points of attachment being brought abnormally near to one another. The establish- ment of this feature of the deformity is clearly shown in Fig. 1466, where Fig. 1465. Paralytic equinus ; complete paralysis.