822 OVARIAN AND UTERINE TUMORS. Douglas’s pouch may he opened with impunity behind. At the sides of the cervix the connective tissue is denser and more vascular, and here scissors must be used, and ligatures'perhaps applied to vessels. When the cervix is now freed, it is incised in front as high as may be needed, and as deeply as into the canal. The anterior wall of the cervix is stitched to the anterior vaginal wall, which secures the cervix against retraction, while the posterior wall is divided and the amputation finished. It is further steadied by the sutures passed through the anterior wall, which are purposely left long. The posterior cut surface of the cervix is then sewed to the posterior vaginal wall,, and the operation is completed by uniting the lateral ends of the vaginal wound with sutures passed deeply into the uterine tissue to guard against hemorrhage. By maintaining steady traction upon the cervix during the entire operation, there is no danger of wounding either the bladder or the ureters. As to the value of this operation, it may be said to be not very dan- gerous to life, and yet not very satisfactory in its results, although the future will doubtless make it more so. In October, 1885, Dr. M. Hofmeier reported1 that, at the Berlin Institute, there had been performed up to January 1, 1884, altogether 83 supravaginal amputations of the cervix: 8 patients had died; in 19 cases the result re- mained doubtful; in 35 relapse had occurred within two years; 21 patients had remained free from disease for two years or longer. In 1882, Dr. W. H. Baker,2 of Boston, published the results of his experience in removing a much larger segment of the diseased uterus. His procedure is analogous to Schroeder’s, but more radical ; he does not open the peritoneum behind the cervix, and, instead of excising the neck at the internal os, he takes a large conical section out of the uterus with the apex approximating the fundus. Of six patients thus treated all were living at the end of six years, and the disease had returned in only one within that time.3 After excision of all the diseased tissue, Baker uses the Paquelin cautery thoroughly upon the raw surface. (4) Extirpation of the uterus may be done by the vaginal method, or by abdominal section (Freund’s operation). For the technique of vaginal hysterectomy we are mainly indebted to Schroeder, although A. Martin, of Berlin, has up to the present time per- formed the operation most frequently (72 cases, with 14 deaths). Its appli- cability and its advantage over amputation of the cervix, where cancerous disease has infiltrated most of the uterus, must be obvious. The mode of performing this operation will be described hereafter. Affections likely to be Mistaken for Ovarian or Uterine Tumors. Under this heading will be described certain affections which may be mis- taken for ovarian or uterine growths, and which may themselves become the subject of operative treatment. Cysts of the Broad Ligament.—Parovarian cysts, or cysts of the broad ligament, are comparatively rare; but, at all periods of development, and especially at an early stage, they are liable from their position and their ready fluctuation to be mistaken for ovarian cystomata. Indeed, at an early age, it is well-nigh impossible to distinguish between them. They are reten- tion-cysts only, and originate in the parovarium, Wolffian body, or body 1 Amer. Journ. of Obst., Feb. 1886, from Centralblatt fur Gyn. 2 Amer. Jouru. of Obst., April, 1882. 3 Trans. Amer. Gyn. Soc., vol. ix. p. 229.