HISTORY OF SURGERY. 1163 2 Ibid., lib. viii. cap. iv. 1 Ibid., lib. viii. cap. iii. which has led some persons who have merely read this chapter to conclude that the ligation of arteries in amputations was not practised in the days of Celsus. This I believe to be an error. This author had already discoursed extensively on the means of arresting hemorrhage, in the twenty-sixth chapter of his fifth book, and incidentally elsewhere in his works. In his chapter on wounds, after speaking of various styptics and of pressure, he adds: “ But if these remedies are also ineffectual in restraining the hemorrhage, the bleeding vessels are to be taken up, and two ligatures to be applied, one on each side of the wound, and then to be divided between the ligatures, that they may both unite together by anastomosing branches, and effect an oblite- ration of their orifices." That the ligature was preferred to the searing-iron, may be plainly seen by the sentence which follows immediately after the above quotation: “ When the case does not admit of this last remedy, we may employ the actual cautery.” The first chapter of the eighth hook of Celsus is an excellent epitome of osteology as studied in his age. It is followed by a discourse on diseases of the bones, the removal of dead bone by rasping, scraping, and the use of the trephine. Hippocrates mentions, but does not describe, the trephine. Celsus describes it as follows: “ The modiolus is a hollow, cylindrical instrument, the lower edge serrated, through the middle of which a centre- pin is introduced, which is also surrounded by an inner circle.” He mentions two kinds of perforator: “ one is similar to that which is used by carpenters ; the other with a larger head, etc.”1 He says that the trephine is revolved by a strap, like a perforator, as we see nowadays with old-fashioned drills. He instructs as to pressure, speed, time to remove the centre-pin, etc. When large pieces of diseased bone are to be removed, perforations are to be made at short intervals around the borders. The dust must be inspected to deter- mine the sound or diseased condition of the bone. The chisel and mallet were also used. Celsus’s directions for trephining the skull are more precise, and in- dicate a better knowledge of anatomy, than those of Hippocrates. The two tables of the skull are here mentioned. In speaking of the diagnosis of frac- ture of the skull, and the liability of mistaking a suture for this injury, he takes occasion to commend the ingenuousness of “the Father of all Medicine.” Hippocrates has recorded that he was himself deceived by the sutures; this candid acknowledgment of error is truly noble in the characters of great men, who have a just estimate of their own superior ability ; for little minds never abstract anything from themselves, because they have nothing to spare ; while the ingenuous admission of an error is congenial to a great mind, which will still have enough for us to admire, especially in the discharge of a duty which is handed down to posterity for its benefit, that it may not be deceived in the same way that another was deceived before it. Nothing but the merits of this eminent professor could have led us into such a digression.2 The remainder of the work is taken up with an account of fractures and dislocations of nearly all of the bones of the body. There is no considerable improvement in the treatment given by Celsus on that practised in the days of Hippocrates. In fact, he often quotes from, or refers to, the opinions of the old Masters. He entertained the same fears as to the danger attending re- duction of compound dislocations that Hippocrates did. I will close my review of the surgery of Celsus by a quotation from chapter tenth, of book eighth, where he treats of ununited and badly united fractures. But if at any time the bones have not united, in consequence of the dressings being frequently removed and the parts disturbed, the treatment to be adopted is obvious ;