CONSTRUCTION AND ORGANIZATION OF HOSPITALS. 1115 The buildings are of brick, the central one three stories, and the pavilion wings two stories high. The wards of 12 beds each are 50 feet long, 24 feet wide, and 15 feet high. The heating is by coils of cast-iron pipe for hot water, placed in fresh-air cham- bers in the basement, as shown in the plan. A large brick air-duct leads under the building from a shaft 8 feet in diameter, and 30 feet high, placed 74 feet west of the building. At the junction of the base of this shaft with the fresh-air duct, is placed a fan 8 feet in diameter, which drives the air along the duct at a velocity of from 400 to 600 feet per minute. Foul air is removed by two aspirating chimneys, about 5 feet in diameter, in the central building. These chimneys are heated by iron smoke-flues in their centres, and into them open the foul-air ducts, placed above and below the centre of each ward, with which they communicate by registers. A good description of this excellent building may be found in Dr. Billings’s valuable work on “Ventilation and Heating.” In the smaller rooms and in all separation-wards it is desirable to have out- lets, leading to a warmed ventilating shaft or chamber, at the bottom as well as the top of the room, but these should be on the opposite side from the inlet. The upper opening can be closed when in very cold weather it may be diffi- cult to warm the room, and the lower one will work when the fireplace may not be in use. All the service-rooms should be independently ventilated. A central pipe-shaft, as suggested for the water-closets, may be large enough to serve as a ventilator, and, containing the soil pipe, may be extended upward through the roof. Besides the usual hot-water pipes, the gas-jets may aid in ventilation, by being placed within the shaft, with small windows to let out the light for the room ; and the waste heat of the water-boiler for the building may be utilized in the same way, by inclosing the apparatus in the basement so that its escaping heat shall pass up the shaft. In general, all heat- producing flues, like smoke-pipes, should be of iron, and should be placed within larger shafts or chimneys, to promote the process of aspiration, for which such shafts may be useful if judiciously arranged. For the additional ventilation of the whole system of drainage-pipes and sewers, it is of great value to run a branch pipe to the boiler-house chimney, in which there is constant heat. In hospitals for the insane, nurses’ “ homes,” etc., where small rooms are used chiefly as chambers and require to be only partially warmed, this is sufficiently and economically done by introducing air from a well- warmed hall or corridor, through transoms over the doors. The warm air passes along the ceiling, at the same time being diffused downward, to the windows, where the chilling it receives is a motive power that aids in maintaining the process of circulation. The air thus cooled, falls and flows along the floor to the inner end of the room, where, near the floor, are the ventilating openings essential to this system. Through these the foul air is conveyed "to a venti- lating chamber or shaft, and is replaced in the rooms by the continuous entrance of warm air through the transoms. The air-supply of the hall or corridor should be liberal, warmed by indirect radiation, and allowed to escape only through the transoms into the rooms. For this reason all stair- ways should be cut off by doors, and ventilators near the ceiling of the cor- ridor should he used only when there is excess of heat, or for changing more quickly all the air of the place. With the introduction of recent plans of separating pavilions and making them of only one story, there is a tendency to rely upon the simpler means of natural ventilation. The lighting of wards is most commonly and safely effected by the use of gas. In large wards there should be a light over the head of each bed, and, whether there, or suspended from the ceiling in the centre of a room, a spe-