INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTION. 58 occurs, often relieves the patient's suffering temporarily. There is complete constipation, and in some cases tenesmus, but no discharge of blood. Tym- panites and meteorism occur early and increase rapidly, often causing dyspnoea by pressing on the diaphragm. The tympany is usually at first limited to the left side. There is less prostration than in internal strangulation. There is usually a history of previously existing constipation. Obstruction by gall-stones is most common in elderly women. It begins suddenly, with severe pain, free vomiting, which ultimately becomes sterco- raceous, and complete constipation. The patient is not prostrated as in other forms of acute obstruction. There have usually been previous attacks of a somewhat similar character. If a foreign body cause obstruction, a history of its having been swallowed can ordinarily be obtained. Enterolites often form such large masses that they can be detected by external palpation. It is hardly necessary to say, that, in every case of acute intestinal obstruc- tion, a careful examination should be made of all the localities in which external hernia may occur ; in obstruction in new-born children, also, the anus and rectum should be examined to ascertain if there is any congenital malformation. Differential Diagnosis in Chronic Obstruction.—In cases of chronic intestinal obstruction, it is important to distinguish between fecal accumula- tions, strictures of the bowel, and chronic invagination. The other forms of chronic obstruction are rare, and can usually be recognized by careful inquiry into the previous history and general condition of the patient; thus, in the case of inflammatory changes from traumatism, there will be a history of injury; in that of tuberculous peritonitis, there will be evidence of tubercle in other organs ; while if the obstruction be due to the pressure of an ovarian or uterine tumor, the diagnosis may be made by noting the symptoms characteristic of those affections. Fecal accumulations, as a cause of intestinal obstruction, are most common in adult women, and especially among the subjects of hysteria or insanity. In a case of this kind there is a history of long-continued constipation, gradually increasing in obstinacy, with swelling of the abdomen, distended coils of intestine being sometimes plainly visible on external inspection. As the swelling increases, the abdomen may become painful, and at a late period vomiting may occur, seldom, however, becoming stercoraceous. The most important symptom is the appearance of a doughy tumor, often pitting on pressure, and usually occupying the position of the ctecum. Intercurrent attacks of complete constipation are not infrequent, hut readily yield to the use of enemata. Acute obstruction may follow as the result of paralysis of the gut (ileus paralyticus). Stricture of the small intestine may be suspected if in a middle-aged person there have been frequent attacks of painful indigestion, with nausea or vomiting, occurring at fixed intervals after the ingestion of food, and with long intervals of entire freedom from suffering. The patient gradually becomes emaciated, and the intestinal movements can then often be traced through the abdominal wall. There is usually, but not invariably, constipa- tion. If the stricture be of a malignant character, a tumor may be detected. Acute obstruction may occur as the result of sudden plugging of the con- stricted bowel with masses of undigested food, gall-stones, etc., or from the formation of a secondary volvulus, or from “ kinking.” In stricture of the large intestine, no connection can be traced between the occurrence of painful paroxysms and the ingestion of food ; there is commonly tenesmus, and occa- sionally a discharge of blood from the rectum; and there is often marked