234 URINARY CALCULUS. unfortunate death of Napoleon III., under a second sitting of lithotrity—. which might indeed have been called litholapaxy, for chloroform and Clover’s evacuating suction-apparatus were used—with other circumstances, seemed suddenly to divert him from his progressive course. Up to this time Thompson had been teaching and practising longer sittings, more fre- quent use of amesthesia, and more constant recourse to Clover’s evacuating apparatus. He had also been urging as a proper course, in the event of active inflammation of the bladder following a first sitting, that the patient should be etherized without delay and his bladder at once cleared of debris by the use of the washing bottle, as a proper treatment of the cystitis. Surely this was litholapaxy, but Thompson did not seem to appreciate it or to accept the spirit of the method, for we find him in March, 1878, three months after the appearance of Bigelow’s first announcement of litholapaxy, reading a paper before the Royal Medical and Cbirurgical Society of London, advocating shorter intervals between the sittings, it is true, but concluding that in future more stones must he cut for and fewer crushed; and that only small stones were suitable for lithotrity—such as could be dealt with in three or tour sittings. Bigelow appears, from his own writings, to have arrived at his perfected operation partly by inductive reasoning and partly by experiment. The views of Otis as to the calibre of the urethra, and the patient tolerance of that canal under very wide distention, were being freely noised abroad. Bigelow had been in the habit of prolonging his sittings of ordinary litho- trity for from ten to fifteen minutes, and no harm had come from it, and the further lengthening of the sittings, the recognition of the value of prompt removal of the detritus, the adoption (practically) of the Otis standard of urethral calibre, and the construction of some large, thin-walled metal tubes with an ingenious suction apparatus at the distal end, made his operation,, which only needed to be modified by experience to become perfect. This operation is to-day accepted by Thompson, and is described in the last edition of his Lectures to the exclusion of old-fashioned lithotrity, which he apparently no longer performs. Indeed, the new operation promises in a few years to displace the old one entirely, and for the most part to do away also with lithotomy for males who have passed the age of puberty. Irish surgeons have seemed inclined to ascribe the origin of the idea of litholapaxy to Sir Philip Crampton,1 who at the opening of the Meath Hos- pital, in Lublin, showed an evacuating bottle (Fig. 1222) which he had Fig. 1222. devised for drawing away the urine from an atonied bladder in which litho- trity had been performed. The bottle was of glass. The air was exhausted from it and its stopcock turned. Then a Heurteloup’s large-eyed steel cathe- ter was introduced into the atonied bladder full of water and crushed stone, 1 Dublin Quarterly Journ. of Med. Science, vol. i. p. 1. 1846.