HISTORY OF SURGERY. 1197 To all of which must be added the “ vulnerary beverages,” “ weapon salves,” and “ sympathetic” and “ magnetic powders.” Among the many surgical writers of the seventeenth century was Matthew Godfrey Purmann (or Purmannus), who was styled “chief chirurgeon of the city of Breslau.” He wrote several important surgical treatises which were published at Frankfort, and at Jena. Purmann served in the army from 1674 to 1679. His works were written in “High Dutch,” and only one of them was translated into English, viz : his “ Chirurgia Curiosa ; or the newest and most curious observations and operations in the whole art of chirurgery,” etc., which appeared as a folio, at London, in 1706, having been first pub- lished at Frankfort, in quarto, in 1694, and lastly at Jena, in quarto, in 1715. The English edition was “ illustrated with large chirurgical figures, of patients as well as instruments, invented by Dr. Solingen, curiously engraven on copper plates.” This work is curious indeed, and must have been useful in its time; it is replete with cases, and sets forth the secret and other remedies, as well as operations of that day. I mention it partly on account of its rarity, and partly to refer to the strange notion which once extensively prevailed among surgeons, concerning the cure of wounds by sympathy, by transplantation, and by the use of “ weapon salves.” These are treated of in Book III., Chap. V., of Purmann’s work. He gives the for- mula for the weapon salve, among the ingredients of which are earth worms, human mummy, swine’s brain, magnet, and “ the moss of a man’s skull that was either kill’d or bang’d, and gather’d when the star Venus is predominate.” He tells us, “ this Unguent I had always with me in the camp, and have often used it with good success.” The following are the directions for its employ- ment: “ Take the weapon or instrument wherewith the patient was wounded, while it is bloody, or instead of it a stick put into the wound that it may be bloody. Anoint it with the unguent about a hand’s breadth, and wrap it up in a clean linen rag or paper, your hands being very clean, and then lay the weapon or stick in a place neither too hot nor cold ; two or three days after anoint it again, and so for four or five times till the wound is well. The patient in the mean time must keep the wound clean, and cover it with a fine linen rag, without applying any medicine to it.” Then follows a case cured in this manner. This delusion of magnetical and sympathetic influence, when ex- ploded, must have had a great effect in simplifying the treatment of all kinds of wounds, since it was made manifest that thorough cleanliness and exclu- sion of the air were the only elements requisite to aid the natural cure. Space will not admit of further detail regarding this myth. The reader will find much that is curious on the subject in the works of Purmann, Sir Kenelm Digby, Paracelsus, and Van Ilelmont. It would require a volume to tell the story fully. The history of surgery would be very incomplete if the name and works of Richard Wiseman were omitted. He was sergeant-surgeon of Charles II., and enjoyed the advantages of a long and valuable service in the civil wars of England. lie became very eminent, and has been styled the Ambroise Pare of the Britannic nation. His “ Eight Chirurgical Treatises” constitute the most valuable contribution to surgery that had ever been made in that country down to the time at which they appeared. They have been, and ever will be, regarded as the most precious monument of English surgery. They were published four times in folio, 1676-1705, and twice in octavo, 1719-1734. These treatises abound in very sensible and highly practical observations. Among other precepts is the following, which relates to the important ques- tion of the propriety of immediate amputation in cases of severe gunshot wound, and which was laid down almost two hundred years in advance of its final confirmation and adoption by modeni military surgeons. Wiseman