898 INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS OF THE BONES. ration which may exhaust or poison the patient, this necrosed portion should be removed. Fig. 1440. Fig. 1441. Fig. 1442. Fig. 1440. Case of necrosis from the Musfee Dupuytren. Almost the whole of the diaphysis of the humerus has perished. The new bone is completely solidified. Cloacae are seen, openings which expose to view a large, mov- able, invaginated sequestrum, free in the cavity of the new bone.' (Musee Dupuytren, No. 346.) Fig. 1441. Invaginated necrosis of the lower part of the femur. The bone is represented eut in three pieces. A, the upper fragment; at its lower part is seen a large hole made with the trephine. B, is the lower fragment ; the sequestrum is seen to be invaginated at the end toward the condyles. C, is a section of the bone which shows the areolar structure of the ossification. Fig. 1442. Necrosis of the calcaneum; ossification of the periosteal sheath around the necrosed bone. (After Gerdy.) In necrosis of the maxillae, for example, the flow of pus into the mouth is a constant source of poisoning; in necrosis of the whole diaphysis of the tibia, suppuration over so extensive a region exhausts the organism. Then the cause which keeps up the suppuration should be removed, whatever effect the operation may have upon the properties of the periosteum. Regenera- tion of the bone is of secondary importance here; to save life is the first con- sideration. To conclude, necrosed parts ought to be removed if they are doing harm, and their separation should be waited for if they are not causing serious trouble. The longer one waits from the time when fever and constitutional symptoms have come to an end, the better the chance of finding the periosteum in possession of all its osteogenic properties. As soon as the fever declines, the destructive processes are arrested, and the plastic processes become more active. The periosteum thickens more and more, increases in consistence, and becomes like cartilage. The dead bone keeps up, it is true, a certain degree of