RETENTION AND INCONTINENCE OF URINE, ETC. 409 2 Op. cit., p. 47. 1 Practitioner, vol. ix. p. 98. Vesical tenesmus or cramp frequently accompanies various inflammatory diseases. As occurring in rheumatic and gouty subjects, this affection has already been referred to, as described by Civiale, Mercier, and other French authorities, under the title of contracture du col vesical. Met with in such subjects, the distressing symptoms of cramp or contraction felt about the neck of the bladder are generally traceable to some condition of the urine, which is capable of exciting irritation. In the great majority of cases, when the muscular parts concerned in micturition are in this way disturbed, careful examination will disclose some cause. Hence it is better to speak of vesical spasm as a symptom rather than as a disease. In the treatment of this affection, everything will depend upon whether a cause for it is discoverable or not. When it occurs as a symptom of chorea, tonics, cod-liver oil, and country air will be indicated. In other cases, a careful examination of the urine will generally point out the proper treat- ment to be employed. Belladonna is probably the most useful medicine for controlling vesical spasm. It may be administered either internally or by local application to the perineum. Dr. Reliquet, of Paris,1 has advocated the use of the continuous electric current in certain spasmodic affections of the bladder. Neuralgia of the parts constituting the neck of the bladder, including the prostate, sometimes occasions much distress. It is generally met with in nervous subjects who are disposed to take a very gloomy view of their pros- pects. Like other forms of neuralgia, it may be the result of some lesion, as when damage is done to the neck of the bladder by unskilful or forcible catheterization. Patients who suffer from oxaluria frequently complain of severe pain, obviously neuralgic, about their bladders. Again, there are cases in which there seems to be an entire absence of any cause for these pains, and which, for the want of a better name, have been referred to as in- stances of “insanity of the prostate.” In neuralgia of the vesical neck, the pain is paroxysmal and intermittent in character, in this respect resembling similar affections in other parts of the body. It is often met with in persons who for a considerable period of time have either naturally or unnaturally stimulated, and given unrestrained license to, their sexual desires. This affection may be accompanied with frequent desire to urinate, and it is often associated with one or other of the conditions which have been referred to as excitants of an irritable bladder. The character of the vesical irritability which accompanies this disorder is peculiar. It is seldom nocturnal, and during the daytime it is largely influenced by circumstances which tend agreeably to distract the attention of the patient. Persons who suffer in this way are, as already mentioned, of a highly nervous temperament, and we find. them frequently inspect- ing their urine and taking alarm at a variety of appearances which it may quite naturally present. Climate and the presence or absence of dyspepsia exert the most powerful influence for good or ill over disorders of this nature. On one day these patients are comparatively well, whilst the next finds them sunk in the depths of despair, and under the impression that they are suffer- ing from stone or some mortal affection. That many cases of this kind are occasioned by some malady which is the source of the disordered sensations, there can be no doubt, but even allowing for these, there still remains a con- siderable proportion which cannot be thus explained. It has been observed by Dr. Owen Rees,2 that improved pathology is rapidly lessening the number