632 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. accompanied by pain, which radiates from the testicle to the loins; the patient becomes cachectic, and is worn out by pain and gastric disturbance; painful oedematous swelling of the lower limb, and sometimes ascites, complicate tbe case. Tbe tunica vaginalis becomes thickened from cancerous infiltration, and adherent to the gland. The tumor is very hard, creaks when cut, and shows fibrous bands, which radiate from the mediastinum throughout the organ. In the fibrous stroma are alveoli, which are filled with groups of cells, rounded or irregular in outline, and containing large oval nuclei. Small round cells are found in the intercellular tissue. The cells in places undergo a fatty or granular change.1 The different names—such as medullary, brain-like, or encephaloid tumor, fungus lisematodes (from its springing forth from its coverings as a soft, fun- gating, vascular, bleeding mass)—which have been applied to the growths which used to be considered carcinomata of the testicle, but many of which are now included among tbe sarcomata, give a good idea of the general appearance presented by medullary cancer or medullary sarcoma of the testis. The disease invades the body of the gland, which, owing to the tension caused by the tough, unyielding tunica albuginea, becomes very hard; eventually the morbid growth affects the whole of the organ, including the epididymis. Cur- ling and Kocher consider the starting-point of medullary carcinoma to be the rete testis, whereas Robin places it in the tail of the epididymis. The epi- didymis and cord have been observed to be diseased, in cases of medullary sarcoma, when the testicle has escaped infection. The swelling is at first globular, with flattened sides, but subsequently causes thickening of the spermatic cord, and, when associated with a hydrocele, becomes more pyri- form in shape. In some cases the lower part of tbe tunica vaginalis is oblit- erated, apparently from the pressure exercised by the large and heavy tumor. In some instances the surface is even ; in others, smoothly nodular, owing to the irregular thinning of the tunica albuginea. At the onset there is no pain; as the glandular structure is displaced by the morbid growth, testicular sensation is lost. Blood-cysts, which are unlike those of cystic disease, being irregular instead of smooth and well defined, are caused by rough handling or by blows, when tbe tumor is soft. At first the patient is appa- rently in good health. The tumor grows to a large size in the course of a few months, and the veins of the scrotum become enlarged, and the cord much thickened. The testicle becomes so soft and elastic, and the skin so adhe- rent and discolored, that the surgeon may be tempted to puncture tbe growth. The enlargement of the cord is associated with darting pains in the tumor, and up the cord to the lumbar region, where, if the patient be thin, the tender and enlarged glands may be felt by making firm pressure through the abdo- minal walls. The growth may burst through the tunica albuginea and be- come adherent to tbe scrotum, which finally gives way and allows tbe pro- trusion of a fungus haematodes, tbe foul discharge and bleeding from which exhaust the patient’s strength. The pressure of the enlarged lymphatic glands may cause a painful swelling and oedema of the legs. In the course of the complaint the patient suffers from dyspeptic symptoms, diarrhoea, nausea, vomiting, and distension of the abdomen; his rest at night is disturbed ; be becomes cachectic and emaciated. The tumor on removal is oval in shape, and slightly uneven on its surface; on section it presents a number of fibrous septa, which inclose deposits of morbid tissue well supplied with blood. In some instances the gland-tissue 1 In the Hunterian Museum are two specimens. No. 2390 A is entered as a case of fibrous can- cer of the testis in a child of four years (T. H. Curling, 1875) ; No. 4243 A, as a hard cancer of the testis (T. Macready, by A. A. Bowlby, 1883).