1164 APPENDIX. for union may yet take place. If the fracture be of long standing, the limb is to be extended, in order to produce a fresh injury ; the bones must be separated from each other by the hand, that their broken surfaces may be rendered uneven by the grating against each other; and if there be any fat substance, it may be abraded, and the whole reduced to a recent accident; yet great care must be employed, lest the ligaments or muscles be injux-ed. Sometimes, however, the bones are accustomed to unite in an oblique direction; and by this the limb becomes both shorter and deformed, and if the ends be very much pointed, continual prickings will be felt. For this reason, the bones ought to be frac- tured again, and again set. It is effected in this manner. Then follow minute directions for refracturing bones, and for the subse- quent. treatment, all of which are very good. And here endeth our brief summary of the surgery of the first century of our era, as furnished to us in the admirable treatises of Aurelius Celsus. Soranus, surnamed the younger, a native of Ephesus, was a student of the Alexandrian school, and a distinguished disciple of the methodic sect.of Themison; he located himself at Rome, and practised with high reputation under the reigns of Trajan and Hadrian (98-138 A. D.). The writings of Soranus have perished, with the exception of certain fragments, unless it be true, as has often been alleged, that the work of Cselius Aurelianus, the Numidian, is nothing more or less than a Latin version of Soranus. In his treatise “ De utero et pudendo muliebri,” Soranus assures us that he had dissected the human cadaver and not merely monkeys, and speaks of the use of the vaginal speculum and of the uterine sound. He gives a lucid account of the differential diagnosis of pregnancy from ascites and solid tumors, by means of percussion, palpation, and succussion. His works give evidence of im- provements in obstetrics and gymecology. He also wrote a treatise on frac- tures, a portion of which is still extant. This work, “_De signis fracturarum,” was printed in Greek and in Latin at Florence, in folio, in 1754, with notes by Antonio Cocchi. Antyllus was a distinguished and skilful Italian surgeon, who flourished in the latter part of the first or in the early part of the second century. His works have also perished, but from the fragments which are preserved by the quotations of subsequent writers, we are enabled to learn that he made important-additions and improvements in surgery. He was the first, of whom we have any knowledge, to recommend bronchotomy in cases of cynanche, or other inflammations attended with tumefaction, which threat- ened suffocation. He advised arteriotomy in preference to venesection, where free blood-letting was indicated. He speaks of the operation for cataract by extraction of the lens, but advises it to be done when the cataract is small, from an apprehension that, if large, it could not be extracted without the escape of all the humors of the eye. He operated for the radical cure of hydrocele by free incision of the parts. The intimate relations of surgery to anatomy render any improvement of the latter an important means of advancing the former. This leads me to make a brief allusion to the distinguished anatomist and surgeon, Rufus of Ephesus, who unquestionably flourished under the reign of Tiberius, about the years 96-117 A. I). His little treatise, still extant, “ De appteliationibus jpartium corporis humani,” is the earliest example of lexicography relating to our profession which we possess. The purpose of Rufus was to furnish a correct general idea of anatomy, and to end the perplexities which the student of that day encountered in reading ancient medical authors, from the many appellations which had been given to the same parts. Rufus mentioned the recurrent nerve, which had then been newly discovered, and declared that it