643 FUNCTIONAL DISORDERS OF THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. the sexual organs makes them and the parts of the nervous system associated with them more and more irritable; it increases the secretion of the seminal fluid, and hurries its discharge. Masturbation and sexual excesses act on the genital organs primarily, and secondarily on the general health of the patient, the parts becoming irri- table and diseased owing to repeated excitations. The presence of semen in the receptacles in which it is stored causes reflex irritation, which gives rise to erection and ejaculation. The antagonism which naturally exists between the propulsive and retentive muscles is weakened; the former are more easily excited by central and peripheric stimuli, and the relaxation and enlargement of the ejaculatory ducts also favors an easy flow of semen. Ejacu- lations, instead of giving relief, act as stimulants to the genital organs, causing renewed secretion. Inflammation of the urinary passage, whether due to gonorrhoea or any other irritation, causes erections and emissions, especially in those who have a tendency to seminal discharges. Excessive coitus and masturbation are at times followed by urethritis and inflammation of the prostate, the testicle, and ejaculatory ducts; but on inquiry I find that at lunatic asylums, where cases of masturbation unfortunately abound, stric- tures and orchitis do not occur more frequently than they do without the asylum walls. The quantity of semen lost at the time of emission is slightly lessened in quantity and coagulability, the odor is fainter, and the sperma- tozoa are fewer in number than in the normal state. The act of sexual intercourse is attended by great excitement of the nervous system, which commences with the erection of the penis, culminates just prior to the ejaculation of the semen, and ceases on the occurrence of this reflex action. The nervous excitement is followed by reaction, which, how- ever, in a strong and healthy man, soon passes off, but in those who are sexu- ally weak, leaves a feebleness and irritability behind, which give rise to troubles of function. So great is the nervous shock that the term epilepsia brevis has been used as synonymous with the sexual orgasm. It is said that too much stress has been laid by some on the nervous shock to the system, and it is asked how it is that the health of a certain class of women does not break down under the stimulus of excessive sexual intercourse. The reason is that the sexual act in the majority of women is not so intense, nor of such long duration, as it is in men, and that those who indulge in sexual inter- course with many men, restrain their feelings, and give way to sexual pleasure only with the few who find favor in their sight. It is probable, moreover, that many obscure cases of nervous disorder in the female are due to ungratified or abnormally gratified sexual feelings. Surgeons are not infre- quently called upon to remove from the urinary bladder foreign bodies, such as hairpins and the like, which have been introduced for the purpose of exciting sexual feelings, the patient being incited thereto by some irritation of the part, which gives rise to sexual thoughts and a desire for sexual gratification. Eckhard, by his dissections and experiments, has made.the important dis- covery that certain spinal nerves govern erection ; and Goltz has placed the primary centre in the lumbar region of the cord ; the movements of the seminal ducts and vesicles seem also to be connected with the same part. The secretion of semen is arrested by injury of the spinal cord (Longet). Eckhard produced erections in rabbits by electrical stimulation of the pons, and of the points where the crura cerebri entered the cerebrum, while similar irritation of the cerebellum had no such effect. He concludes from this experiment that the “nervi erigentes” have their origin in the cerebrum, and that the cerebellum does not govern the sexual organs, as Gall used to teach. The cerebellum is not developed in proportion to the sexual propen-