ULCERATION AND STRICTURE OF THE RECTUM. 115 It also probably will have travelled downwards close to the anus, and there the pain is sure to be very severe, because the part is more sensitive and more exposed to external influences and accidents. When the disease has reached this stage, of course stricture and most probably fistula will be present, as I have already mentioned ; and possibly, but not frequently, perforation into the bladder, the vagina, or the peritoneal cavity, may occur. The state of the patient is now "most lamentable; his or her aspect resembles that of a sufferer from malignant disease, and no remedy short of lumbar colotomy offers much chance of even prolonging life. You may relieve these patients, but you can rarely do more; a cure can scarcely be expected. I have seen ulceration utterly destroy both the anal sphincters, so that the anus was but a deeply ragged hole. A low form of peritonitis is a not uncommon complication of ulceration and stricture. It is attended with considerable pain in the abdomen, often intense for a short period. There are generally one or more tender spots, tympanites, and often vomiting, especially on first assuming the erect posi- tion in the morning ; generally the pain is brought on by standing or moving about. These attacks are sure to end in diarrhoea. When making a post-mortem examination in such cases, I have observed effusion into the peritoneal cavity and often numerous old and recent adhe- sions between the intestines; the peritoneum is also thickened. In bad cases the whole of. the rectum and even the sigmoid flexure may be involved in ulceration, and great thickening and contraction of the calibre of the bowel, caused by the attempts at repair, may be observed; in various parts, large bridges of indurated muscle are exposed, and the mucous membrane is strangely roughened. I have seen more than one case in which necrosis of the sacrum had taken place. In the treatment of these attacks there should be perfect rest in bed, with spare diet; opium may be given freely; fomentations relieve pain, but I have not seen any benefit result from counter-irritation, except by an ordinary lin- seed or mustard poultice. I have often found that calomel and opium, given for some time, are advantageous in these cases. From the notes of my cases in St. Mark’s Hospital, I find that out of 110 patients with ulceration and stricture, 92 were females and 18 males. Out of the 110, 49 had undoubtedly suffered from constitutional syphilis, while 9 had some syphilitic symptoms, but not such as were decisive, so that I think that this number should be deducted from the whole number, 110, before considering the statistics of the remaining 101; we then find 49 who were most undoubtedly syphilitic, and 52 who as undoubtedly had never contracted syphilis, and many of whom had never had any venereal disease at all. These statistics differ from those published in my work on Diseases of the Rectum, showing a less proportion of syphilitic patients; but this may be merely acci- dental, and a further series may again reverse the results. Many of my patients have been subjected to colotomy in the lumbar region, and for the most part have done well, and I believe several (eight or nine) are now alive. Two of the women have married since the operation, and one has borne a child. For the relief of stricture and ulceration I have performed colotomy thirty-five times. In sixteen cases I have performed Verneuil’s operation of linear rectotomy, but always with the knife, never with the ecraseur or galvanic cautery, as he has recommended. This is the essence of Prof. Verneuirs operation : The whole stricture must be divided from its upper edge down to the coccyx, and through its entire depth. Thus a deep drain is made, from which all discharges freely flow, and as this heals up, the ulceration ceases, and the stricture is sometimes cured.