412 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE BLADDER AND PROSTATE. 1 Lancet, Dec. 19, 1863. Op. cit., p. 287. The following case in the practice of my colleague, Mr. Mitchell Banks, illustrates the employment of supra-pubic puncture, under*circumstances of emergency, in connection with a rupture of the urethra :— F. J. A., a man aged 27, received an injury to his perineum while at sea, followed by the passing of blood, and other signs of rupture of the urethra. Four days after the accident it was found necessary to empty the bladder, in consequence of the swollen condition of the penis and scrotum. The surgeon of the ship tapped the bladder above the pubis, and inserted a tube into the opening. On arriving at the Liverpool Infirm- ary, six days after the accident, the patient was found to be suffering from rupture of the urethra and extravasation of urine. Mr. Banks made incisions where necessary, and substituted for the supra-pubic puncture a communication with the bladder by perineal incision. The patient made a good recovery. A modification of the supra-pubic puncture was some years since intro- duced by Sir Henry Thompson,1 for the treatment of certain advanced cases of prostatic disease, attended with much vesical irritability. Here the opera- tor cuts down, immediately above the pubis, on the end of a sound passed into the bladder by the urethra, and by means of this introduces an elastic tube, which is then permanently fixed within the viscus. Provision is in this way made for reaching a bladder which might not present any promi- nence above the pubis, and when, consequently, tapping with the trocar and canula, as previously described, could not he undertaken with safety. Subpubic Operation of M. Voillemier.2—This consists in plunging a tro- car into the bladder through the anterior wall, entering it above the penis after having drawn that organ downwards and backwards. The suspensory ligament is thus put upon the stretch and perforated, the instrument enter- ing the viscus in the median line and beneath the arch of the pubis. This proceeding does not seem to have at all commended itself to surgeons. It is not easy of performance ; the position of the opening is neither a convenient nor a comfortable one; nor can I imagine the existence of any circumstances which would seem specially to indicate its selection. Puncture through the Symphysis Pubis.—Puncture of the bladder through the symphysis was first proposed by Dr. Brander, of Jersey, in 1825 ; hut although it lias been successfully performed on several occasions, it is not a proceeding which has found general favor. The operation consists in perforating the symphysis with a trocar at about its middle, and thus entering the bladder at a point where it is uncovered by peritoneum. The instrument should be directed obliquely downwards and backwards towards the sacrum. A piece of flexible catheter is then intro- duced through the canula, and retained by a tape. It should not he forgot- ten that, in a person of advanced age, considerable difficulty might be expe- rienced in penetrating the symphysis by reason of the ossification of the intra- pubic cartilage. It would, however, as Coulson suggests, be possible to over- come this difficulty, should the operation be selected for other reasons as the most appropriate to the case under consideration, by drilling a hole through the ossified cartilage by means of a suitable instrument. Tapping the Bladder from the Perineum.—From this position the blad- der maybe reached, either indirectly by opening the membranous urethra, or directly by puncture, either through or by the side of the prostate gland. There are certain conditions of obstruction in which, for several reasons, an opening from the perineum may be the one most desirable to secure. The