402 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE BLADDER AND PROSTATE. stricture, and it generally happens in the following way. Every person who suffers from stricture finds out by experience the maximum quantity of urine over which he can successfully exercise expulsive power; and as long as this quantity is not exceeded, the ability to expel the urine remains, although the stream may be exceedingly small or may even issue in drops. Should urine, however, from any cause, be allowed to collect in the bladder beyond the accus- tomed limit, the propulsive apparatus becomes disarranged by being called upon to do unaccustomed work, and irregular, spasmodic efforts take the place of that combined muscular action, which is necessary in the case of a person who, at the best of times, voids his urine under difficulties. This con- sideration is offered as explaining how retention may be regarded as an acci- dent occurring in the course of a case of stricture, and how it is that spasm becomes superadded to permanent urethral obstruction. Urethral spasm, independent of any organic change in the walls of the canal, is quite capable of occasioning retention of urine. Instances of this form of retention are most frequently seen in young men who, when suffering from gonorrhoea, have indulged freely in intoxicating liquors, or have exposed themselves to cold, as by lying or sitting on the grass or upon a damp seat. Spasm is thus excited in the muscles surrounding the membranous portion of the urethra; a condition not unlike that which we speak of as cramp, is aroused; the mechanism connected with micturition is disorganized; and thus the bladder is rendered incapable of voiding its contents. A predisposing cause to this variety of retention is a highly acid condition of the urine. Similarly, I have seen the same effect produced in the gouty by the passing of urine highly charged with crystals of uric acid, of a shape such as to irritate the mucous membrane and produce spasm of the muscular walls of the canals along which they have to pass. Hence, in all cases of this kind, it is important to free the urine from all probable causes of irritation. Retention may be caused by inflammation and suppuration around the urethra ; these effects are most frequently seen in cases of acute gonorrhoea, and are often traceable to the use of irritating or too potent injections, or to the employment of bougies or other such like instruments during the acute stage of the disorder. Amongst the rarer causes of retention may be mentioned the pressure of a displaced kidney. Dr. Gouley1 has illustrated this by a case in which com- pression was exercised on the ureter (there being only a single kidney), partly by the kidney and partly by the bladder. After death the pelvis of the kidney was found enormously dilated and filled with urine, and encroaching upon the space behind the bladder. Hysteria sometimes takes the form of retention of urine; numerous instances are recorded of deception with reference to this symptom, evidently prompted by the mental condition which in a large measure constitutes this peculiar neurotic disorder. It is sufficient to mention them. Treatment.—When the bladder is incapable of being emptied spontaneously, it must be relieved artificially of the urine which it contains. Though the condition of the urine is frequently sufficient to convert impeded micturition into complete retention, the circumstances are exceedingly exceptional, under which treatment other than that of catheterization should be employed. After retention has once been relieved by the introduction of an instrument into the bladder, medical treatment may prevent the recurrence of such an emergency. It has been remarked by Sir James Paget, that “ one of the best things about strictures to be learnt in the out-patient room, is the value of medical treatment, and of rules of living, in alleviating the occasional urgen- cies of the disease, and in enabling the patient to live in comfort and without 1 Diseases of the Urinary Organs, p. 235.