URINARY CALCULUS. 226 by the large prostatic lobes may make its vertical capacity greater than usual, and give the operator the impression that the beak of his instrument is in the bladder while it is still in the prostatic sinus. Sudden depression of the handle at this point is a serious blunder. It may always be avoided by remembering to continue the sliding motion until a lateral turn proves the beak to be free in the vesical cavity, when the handle may be depressed at will. Once within the bladder, the lithotrite, still closed, is advanced gently until it reaches the posterior wall, and here it usually encounters the stone. The closed jaws are pushed beyond the stone, a tap by rotating the handle locates its position accurately, the beak of the instrument is turned away from the stone without moving the heel from its position, the male blade is withdrawn sufficiently far to seize the stone, whose diameter is known by previous measurement, and then by gentle rotation the open blades are thrown over so as to embrace the stone. The male blade is now pushed in until the stone is grasped, then the button is moved, the screw connected, and at the same moment the whole instrument containing the stone in its grasp is rotated upwards and drawn outwards so as to carry the stone toward the centre of the bladder. If a fold of the bladder has been seized with the stone, this last movement frees it, or at least informs the operator of what has happened. The stone once safely raised from its bed, the screw power is applied. If the stone is soft, the male blade advances at a uniform rate. If the stone is hard, and badly caught, it shoots out of the bite of the instrument. If it is well caught, but very hard, the screw cannot be turned. There is in such a case a very palpable rebound communicated by the stone to the male blade, which an operator soon learns to distinguish, and judgment about which is the measure of his sagacity, for if he attacks such a stone clumsily he may break his lithotrite and jeopardize his operation. If the operator concludes that his instrument will not crush the stone, he drops the latter and tries a heavier lithotrite. If he determines to continue, he holds the cylindrical handle firmly, and makes repeated, light, forward and backward motions with the screw in a jerking manner, thus communicating to the stone the effect of a blow as well as sustained pressure, or he may screw the male blade as firmly as he dare, and hold it so until suddenly the stone splits. One of these manoeuvres will succeed if the instrument is powerful enough for the stone in question. The large fragments of the first fracture fall on either side of the closed jaws, but one at least usually drops into the spot where the stone was first seized. The opening and shutting of the jaws is therefore again repeated as before, and again, and again, as many seizures being effected as the patient will tolerate, for presently his power of endurance fails and he demands relief. The jaws being disengaged, and free from debris, the instrument is now gently withdrawn. The limit of time formerly agreed upon, during which a sitting might be prolonged, was three minutes; and as many seizures as possible were made, perhaps a dozen, enough to crush a small stone completely, or so to reduce it that it could pass the urethra. Another method often called into play, is to make the stone cr fragment gravitate into the jaws of the instrument. This is done by pressing the female blade with moderate force against the back wall of the bladder, while the male blade is held forward. This position alone may insure success through the action .of gravity upon the stone lying loose in the bladder, so that when the jawrs are closed the stone will be seized. If the stone, however, does not voluntarily seek the female blade, it may be jarred into position by gently striking the pelvis.