LITHOLAPAXY. 243 the bladder and held there. If it is pushed too far in, it does not return the wash properly, and the back wall of the bladder flaps inconveniently, perhaps painfully, against its open end, being drawn upon it by the suction of the evacuating bottle. On the other hand, if it is held close to the vesical neck the orifice of the tube may slip out into the prostatic sinus during the work- ing of the bottle, and there bruise the membrane and fail to do its work. The tube therefore requires some care in its use, and for continuous work is not as valuable as those generally employed, but as an extra tube it has a function of its own, which I have found of value in shortening the operation. Furthermore, in introducing the tube the operator must be quite certain that its tip has penetrated into the vesical cavity before he attaches the bottle, as otherwise, if he leaves the end of the tube in the prostatic sinus, he will wash in vain ; I have known this accident to happen in able hands, and to produce a low opinion of this tube’s value in the mind of the operator. Finally, because a straight tube renders debris so much more readily than a curved one, I have had a curved tube made (Fig. 1243), with a large eye Fig. 1243. on its straight part, and a stopcock for protecting the bed from wetting while entering and withdrawing the obturator, which should always be used when the eye is very large, for fear of drawing out an impacted fragment. This tube is curved as far as introduction goes, but straight for all purposes of delivery. It works very well in my hands. Joseph H. Warren has devised a spiral revolving tip, for attachment to the end of curved and particularly of straight tubes, in order to facilitate their introduction. Experience at my hands does not justify the claims made for this addition to the instrument. As to size, Bigelow advocates the use of the very largest tube that will pass. Undoubtedly, the larger the tube the more satisfactorily does it render the debris to the washing bottle. But most operators rather shrink from distending the urethra to its utmost capacity, and use only as large a tube as the urethra will admit comfortably, perhaps after incising a bridled meatus. This is a sound rule to go by, and one generally followed. The meatus, if constricted, or with a pocket at its lower commissure, should be incised rather freely, and then as large a tube should be used as will go easily past the point of physiological narrowing in the third inch of the pendulous urethra, and nothing larger. This physiological point of narrowing almost invariably exists, and should not be cut or even over-stretched to accommo- date a tube. Perfectly effective work is constantly being done through tubes of moderate size. Thompson rarely goes above 16 English—27 French—and has smaller tubes for those who require them. Guyon uses about the same size. I have performed the whole washing, in an old man whose urethra I was particularly desirous of sparing, with a No. 20 (French) curved tube. The tubes I employ run from 20 to 32 (French). #