939 RACHITIS. lungs with a tuberculous osteopathy contraindicates operation only when it is malignant, when it is progressing rapidly to disorganization of the lung. Even in this case, if the pains of tuberculous osteitis or osteo-arthritis were excessive, one might, after the example of M. Ollier, operate merely for their relief. In the discussion upon this question which took place at the Societe de Chirurgie, in 1878, M. Trelat laid down the following rule of conduct: It is right to operate as soon as a tuberculous lesion is recognized, whether the affection be independent of any alteration of the lungs, or developed in a phthisical patient; since, in the tirstcase, the external lesion is cured, and the patient is enabled to build up his organism by being freed from a centre of infection; and because, in the second case: 1st, the external lesion is cured; 2d, he is given a chance to have his pulmonary lesion improve. M. Ollier, after having considered this question with the broad- ness of view which is habitual with him, in the memoir just cited, has for- mulated the following conclusions, which I shall reproduce in part:— “ 1st. Resections of the joints practised upon tuberculous subjects may give durable results. They make it possible not only to secure a local cure, but also to put a stop to the general disorders which have their source in absorption of the products of tuber- culous centres in the joints ; . . . 4th. Resections of the joints, in patients who had manifested all the anatomical and clinical signs of a tubercular affection, have enabled me to obtain recoveries which have been maintained for fifteen years and more ; . . . 6th. Theoretically, amputations are a better protection against secondary infection than resections ; but they never constitute a radical operation. The deep and inaccessible lymphatic glands which are already invaded by tuberculosis remain behind in both cases. 7th. Resection, followed by complete local recovery, that is to say, by final cicatrization of the wound, leaves no greater risk of secondary tuberculous infection than amputation. 8th. Hygiene and general medication are of very great importance in modifying the soil in which tuberculosis may be developed. Local modifiers may destroy the tuberculous tissues and transform them into stable cicatricial tissue; this transformation, moreover, takes place spontaneously in many patients, especially in children.” Rachitis. Rachitis has been already described among constitutional diseases by Dr. Lewis Smith,1 and my task is thus much simplified ; indeed, I should have had nothing to say if Dr. Smith had recognized the occurrence of rachitis after the earliest childhood. He confines himself to stating that Glisson, Portal, and Tripier, observed the appearance of rachitis near the time of puberty, and that Sir William Jenner has seen children seven or eight years old having a first attack of the disease. He himself knows of no case occurring after the first years of life, and the way in which he speaks of the observations of Glisson, Portal, Tripier, and Jenner, leaves us to suppose that only the authority of the observers prevents him from rejecting them. Nevertheless, the occurrence of this late form of rachitis cannot be denied. Rachitis of Adolescents; Late Rachitis (Ollier).—In my opinion, rachitis may appear at all stages of the growth of the skeleton, and its mani- festations are in direct ratio to the activity of the physiological processes peculiar to the age of the patient. In other words, the younger the subject, the graver the rachitis; the greater the osteogenic activity, the greater will be its perturbations, the more marked the rachitis, all other things being equal. During the whole period of growth, the work of increase of the 1 See Vol. I. page 251, supra.