GENERAL SYMPTOMATOLOGY OF ACUTE INFLAMMATIONS OF BONE- 857 epiphyseal spongy tissue. There are then two distinct centres of suppura- tion, one at each end of the bone. This is the variety of osteitis which I designate under the name of bipolar. This invasion of the two juxta-epiphy- seal regions of the same bone is frequent in the tibia. General Symptomatology of Acute Inflammations of Bone. Inflammations of bone are sometimes very difficult to diagnosticate, because the organs attacked lie so deep. In some cases chronic inflammations follow so slow a course, and give rise to so little pain, that they are not diagnosti- cated until the cold abscesses which they cause appear in sight. As to acute inflammations, they may be confounded with phlegmons of different origin. We shall here study especially acute and subacute inflammations ; chronic inflammations are associated with scrofulous and tuberculous lesions, or with syphilis, and are described in other articles. The name periostitis is applicable to an inflammation of the totality of the periosteum; but, as I have already said, it is on the deep face of the perios- teum, in the osteogenic layer in young subjects, and in the deep lamellar layer in old subjects, that the phenomena of inflammation oftenest occur. The fibrous external layer is only exceptionally the primary seat of inflam- mation, and still more exceptionally its exclusive seat. Inflammation may nevei'theless develop on its external surface, and outside of it, in the parosteal layers. Especially after traumatisms may there be observed over superficial bones, such as the tibia, the ribs, the cranium, etc., external inflammations which may simulate true osteitis. An abscess forms, it is opened, and the bone is not found denuded, but only the periosteum thickened at this point. These are the inflammations which have been called external periostitis by Gaujot and Duplay, and which I long ago described under the names of inflamma- tion of the parosteal layers, and of parostitis. This variety of inflammation undoubtedly exists, but one must not be in too great haste to admit its pre- sence when there are at the same time signs of periostitis or of osteitis. One often believes at first that the bone is intact; but on searching carefully, a little denuded point is found which has been the origin of the abscess that was found spread in front of the periosteum. In consequence of a con- tusion, the periosteum may have been bruised over a considerable extent, and torn in a single point alone, where the force has been more directly applied. From this point the inflammation starts, and this osteitis, notwithstanding its slight extent, will keep up suppuration in the future. Therefore it is not well, in these parosteal inflammations, to be too quick to deny the par- ticipation of the bone. Whenever suppuration, developed on the surface of a bone, continues for a long time, it is advisable to search carefully for its starting-point, and to suspect that it is in the bone itself. Search conducted with this in view will usually be crowned with success. In case a contusion of the periosteum, or spontaneous inflammation of its external layer, should give rise to a persistent swelling around a bone, the subjacent osseous layers, those which are immediately under the periosteum, feel more or less the effect of the propagation of the inflammation. There may be produced here secondarily a subperiosteal abscess ; or, if the inflam- mation do not go so far as suppuration, layers of osteophytes are formed under the periosteum. Chronic inflammations developed around a bone pro- duce this latter result; old ulcers of the leg give rise ultimately to hyper- trophy of the bone, or at least to signs of plastic periostitis. There may then be described two varieties of periostitis, external perios-