INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. 576 cord. The testicle would be felt at the bottom of the scrotum, and, if an operation for strangulated hernia should become necessary, the hydrocele-sac would be cut into, a quantity of fluid discharged, and then the hernia would be sought for and found, still covered by a process of tunica vaginalis.1 In the following case an encysted hydrocele of the cord coexisted with an irre- ducible omental hernia:— A young man presented himself with an elastic, transparent swelling of the left sper- matic cord, with no obvious impulse on coughing. A lirm swelling could be felt run- ning up the inguinal canal. An incision with antiseptic precautions was made into the hydrocele, which lay in front of the inguinal process of the tunica vaginalis, this remaining behind and still occupying the inguinal canal instead of collapsing. An incision was carefully made into the firm swelling, which was about the size of a ring- finger ; the wall was thick, and contained a large mass of omentum, very tightly packed in the inguinal process of the tunica vaginalis. The omentum was ligatured in sections and removed, the sides of the hernial sac were brought together with catgut, and the sides of the inguinal canal were approximated with kangaroo tendon passed through both pillars of the external abdominal ring. Hydrocele of the hernial sac is apt to result after the radical cure of a hernia by the pressure of a truss, causing adhesion to take place between the sides of the neck of the sac, or between the latter and a piece of omentum. The cord would be obscured by the presence of a fluctuant swelling extend- ing up the inguinal canal, receiving a transmitted impulse when the patient coughed. The swelling is said to be transparent, but, judging from the thickness of most hernial sacs, this symptom would not often assist the surgeon; the contained fluid is also dark-colored. The early history of the case—a hernia cured by a truss long worn—would be of great use if it could be obtained. At Guy’s Hospital,2 a case of hydrocele of a hernial sac which simulated ordinary vaginal hydrocele, was treated by frequent tapping. An operation was done, and unfortunately an incarcerated bowel was opened ; this was followed by peritonitis and death. The case was one of congenital irreducible hernia, with hydrocele of the hernial sac. The bowel was so changed in appearance that it was not recognized. There was no marked change in the muscular coat, but the serous and subserous coats were greatly hypertrophied and hardened. There was no resonance on percussion. The best plan of treatment is, if the patient be of a suitable age, to dissect out with antiseptic precautions the sac of the hernia, tie its neck as high as possible, and bring the walls of the inguinal canal together with thick cat- gut ligatures. A spurious hydrocele of the hernial sac ensues when a large quantity of fluid is associated with a hernia; a case of the kind may require an operation. Tbe bowel and fluid may be returned into the abdomen, but both reappear when the finger compressing the ring is removed. The case may be one of congenital hernia. Tbe operation for the radical cure of hernia may be done if the case be considered suitable. A young man, who bad been in the habit of wearing a truss for a hernia which was readily reducible, applied for assistance, finding one day that he could not reduce his rupture. He presented a medium-sized hernia in the right inguinal region, non-reduci- ble, very tense, with no impulse on coughing, but with a sense of fluctuation and with some translucency. The diagnosis was an omental hernia with effusion into the hernial sac, and absence of impulse owing to excessive tension. Two drachms of yellow fluid 1 Mr. Rivington (London Hospital Reports, vol. ii. p. 371) has reported a case in which a her- nial sac containing ileum dipped down into a hydrocele of the cord, invaginating, as it were, the upper wall of the hydrocele. 2 Med. Times and Graz., vol. i. p. 617. 1878.