WRY-NECK, OR TORTICOLLIS. 1083 can produce no result, since the spine is already rendered inextensible by the fixing support; on the other hand, if extension of the column can be obtained, then the jacket is an insufficient support, because any reduction of the curvature which results from the daily exercise is not maintained, for the spine must sink back to that condition in which it was when the jacket was applied. All forms of jacket which incase the body are unsuitable appliances to use in the treatment of lateral curvature, because they prevent the employment of those physiological measures which have already been described; valuable as the jackets may be in the treatment of caries of the vertebrae, when the one object of treatment is to fix the spine, their use in the reduction of lateral curvature is distinctly contra-indicated, for in this affection the object to be gained is not fixation of the column, but its restora- tion to the normal condition. The treatment of lateral deflection of the spine resulting from simple bending, is best conducted by the use of exercises which strengthen the muscles of' the back, and by attention to the general health. Mechanical appliances should if possible be avoided, but in cases such as that illustrated in Fig. 1506, an instrument with laced shields will give the necessary amount of support. Lateral bending combined with lateral curvature, as in the case shown in Fig 1508, should always be treated as one of lateral curvature only, since the improvement of the curvature will be accompanied by increasing strength of the muscles, whilst if the muscular weakness alone receive attention, the displacement of the vertebrae, the most serious part of the condition, will be liable to advance. The case in question (Fig. 1508) was treated on this principle, and resulted in complete recovery ; the patient, when first affected with lateral curvature, had been treated with the plaster-of-Paris jacket, the retentive qualities of which appliance had induced muscular wasting, and had superadded lateral bending to the already existing lateral curvature. The possibility of this result from using the jacket is another reason for objecting to its employment in cases of lateral curvature; the case above quoted is by no means one of uncommon occurrence, several similar instances having come under my observation. Wry-FTeck, or Torticollis. Wry-neck results from contraction of the muscles on one side of the neck, the contraction being generally spasmodic in its nature, and either of con- genital origin or developed in early infancy. The sterno-mastoid muscle is usually the most affected, but the scaleni and deeper muscles of the neck may also be implicated; in some few cases the latter muscles are the chief cause of the deformity. In the usual condition of wry-neck the chin is raised and directed towards the shoulder opposite to that of the contracted muscles, the head being so turned that the lobe of the ear on the side of contraction is brought forwards and downwards, whilst that on the other side is turned backwards and upwards, the distance between the two ears and the centre of the sternum showing a considerable difference on measurement. The usual position of the head in this deformity is illustrated in Fig. 1512. When the muscular contraction is allowed to remain unrelieved, the features become implicated in the deformity as age advances. This complication results from acquired contraction of the platysma muscle and the muscles of the face; the corner of the mouth is drawn downwards, the cheek is flattened, the lower lid is depressed, and the eyebrow is on a lower level than that of the opposite side. The occurrence of this distortion of the face necessitates the early removal of the contraction of the muscles of the