96 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE RECTUM. simultaneously. After an operation for internal hemorrhoids, it is usually necessary to pass a catheter the first night, in order to empty the bladder. I am not quite clear in my own mind how far the levator ani is directly re- sponsible for this, or whether the retention is due to nervous influences. The nerve supply of the levator ani is from the fourth sacral and from the internal pudic. The transversus perinei arises from the inner surface of the descending- ramus of the pubis, close to the ischial tuberosity, and is inserted into the central tendon of the perineum. Its action has been described by Cruveilhier as assisting that of the external sphincter in compressing the anus. It has, however, always appeared to me to be mainly concerned in steadying the central tendon while the other muscles inserted into it are in action. Its nerve comes from the internal pudic through the perineal nerve. Vessels of the Rectum and Anus.—The blood supply of the rectum is derived from two sources, the inferior mesenteric and the internal iliac artery. The first terminates in the superior hemorrhoidal artery, which passes down behind the rectum between the two layers of meso-rectum, and soon divides into two branches, which in their turn break up into seven or eight—the parallel rectal arteries which are found in the pillars of Glisson already referred to. The internal iliac usually gives oft' the middle liemor- rohidal, through the inferior vesical, and the inferior hemorrhoidal through the internal pudic artery. Both these arteries are small, and are distributed to the lower part of the rectum and anus only. The veins correspond to the arteries, that' is to say, there are three sets—superior, middle, and inferior— which, according to my observation, communicate freely in a plexus around the lower part of the bowel, the hemorrhoidal plexus. The superior hemor- rhoidal vein is, like the artery, single. It is the commencement of the inferior mesenteric, and so joins the portal system ; like the other veins of this system, it is devoid of valves. Verneuil, who has devoted a great deal of time and labor to the elucidation of the anatomy of these veins,says that they commence at the upper border of the internal sphincter, and lie under the mucous membrane of the rectum. At a definite height of about four inches, they perforate abruptly the muscular coats of the bowel through “ veritables boutonnieres musculaires,” and unite to form five or six large veins found in the meso- rectum ; these then join the inferior mesenteric vein, as already explained. Verneuil is also of opinion that little or no anastomosis takes place between the superior and the other hemorrhoidal veins, and that, at least as far as this region is concerned, the portal and general systems are practically dis- tinct. I have already said that I by no means participate in this view. The middle hemorrhoidal veins, one on either side, join the internal iliac veins; they arise from the hemorrhoidal plexus,and, according to Buret, are formed by two venous trunks, one in front of and the other behind the rectum. The inferior or external hemorrhoidal veins are also connected with the above- mentioned plexus, and empty themselves into the internal pudic veins. Herves.—The sensory nerves which supply the skin around the anus are the inferior hemorrhoidal and the posterior superficial perineal—branches of the internal pudic—and the posterior branches of the lower sacral nerves. The nerve supply of the muscles has already been referred to in the descrip- tion of these. The mesenteric and hypogastric plexuses supply many branches to the rectum, the muscular coat of which is provided with Auerbach's plexus, an offshoot of that first mentioned. The external sphincter is maintained in a state of tonic contraction by a centre in the lumbar portion of the