63T EXCISION OF THE TESTIS. any rupture that may be present having been reduced, the surgeon stands on one side of the patient, and, having made the diseased testicle prominent, and having separated it from its fellow with the left hand, punctures it carefully to ascertain its nature : if he finds his diagnosis correct, he enters the point of his knife just below the external abdominal ring, and carries it downwards quite to the bottom of the scrotum, through all the coverings of the testicle ; this wound enables him to turn the testicle out readily from its connective tissue, and provides for good drainage, and it is advantageous, as enabling the surgeon to verify his diagnosis, and to diminish the bulk of the tumor. Some operators, however, prefer not to open the tunica vaginalis. If the testicle be torn out with the fingers, there will be less bleeding than when the knife is used, but the instrument will be required to divide the mesorchium, which attaches the testicle to the lowest part of the scrotum. The cord should be left to the last, in case total extirpation of the testicle should be deemed, for some reason, undesirable. It is to be prevented from slipping up into the abdomen by passing through it, above the point at which it is to be divided, a tenaculum, or a piece of stout string, which may be left for forty-eight hours. The cord may be cut through at once, and all the vessels carefully tied, espe- cially the artery of the vas deferens (which may cease to bleed at the time of the operation); or the cord may be all divided except the vas deferens, which is severed after the vessels have been securely ligatured. I have seen Mr. Henry Smith, at King’s College Hospital, effectually use the clamp and cautery to divide the cord, and have successfully followed his example. The old plan of tying the cord en masse has been rightly abandoned, as it was painful, and in some cases followed by tetanus. When adopted, however, the cord should be transfixed with a strong double ligature, and the two halves tightly tied, as the ligature is slow in separating. When the scrotum is adherent to the tumor, it is advisable to remove a portion. This is done by making two semilunar incisions over the growth, instead of a single straight one, and by removing the skin and the testis together. Some surgeons remove the skin even when it is healthy, in order to avoid the bag left after the removal of a large tumor, but this is unnecessary. The arteries of the cord and scrotum may be tied with thread or catgut, or twisted, as the surgeon may please. Chassaignac has em- ployed the eeraseur, to divide not only the cord but also its envelopes. Ver- neuil and others have secured the vessels with small leaden damps. The edges of the wound are to be carefully brought together with silk or silver sutures, over a good-sized drainage-tube, which will expedite the cure. Before the introduction of anaesthetics the early division of the cord rendered the operation less painful and more expeditious, and it was recommended by Sir A. Cooper. Cases have been recorded in which retraction of the cord into the abdomen took place, after the removal of a heavy testicle which had dragged it down, and in which the surgeon was obliged to open up the inguinal canal in order to secure the vessels. The wound should be dressed with an absorbent dressing, and the parts carefully supported on a pillow. If the case be com- plicated by an inguinal hernia, this should be returned into the abdomen, the neck of the sac tied with stout catgut, and the boundaries of the inguinal canal brought together with silver wire or thick catgut. Sir A. Cooper describes another method of amputating the testicle: An incision is made down upon the cord, just as it emerges from the external ring, but only large enough to permit the passage of a ligature between its bloodvessels and the vas deferens, so as to secure the cord from being retracted into the inguinal canal. An assistant then takes hold of the healthy testicle, including between his fingers not only the corresponding half of the scrotum but also the septum, while the operator with his left hand draws the diseased testicle in the opposite direction—so as to separate it as widely as he can from