193 PREVENTIVE TREATMENT OF STONE. tutional or diathetic origin, and requires general measures to counteract the tendency to its production; the other, secondary, is of local origin, and local preventive measures are here vastly more important. The latter are almost too obvious to require mention. They involve all the physical means employed for the relief of obstructive urethral and prostatic disease—removal of nuclei, the use of the catheter, vesical irrigation, medicated injections, and other means for controlling vesical catarrh—for without catarrh it is impossible for secondary stone to form. In the kidney and ureter it is often impossible to apply local measures, and here it is, therefore, that secondary stone once originated most often goes on, uninfluenced by any measure brought to hear against it. A somewhat brighter future for these conditions is promised by nephrotomy. There are certain general measures, however, which seem to oppose secon- dary stone formation even in the kidneys; these are the use of— (1) A milk diet, when well borne by the stomach ; (2) An abundance of bland, diluent drinks; (3) Tonics; (4) Mineral acids (sometimes); (5) Alkalies (sometimes); (6) Benzoic acid—occasionally—or the salicylates. (1) A milk diet, if well borne, sometimes reduces catarrhal inflammation of the urinary mucous passages to a remarkable extent. Should a nucleus be present, however, no amount of milk diet can cure, although it may mod- erate, a local catarrh of that portion of the membrane upon which the foreign body lies. (2) Diluents act by lessening the irritation of the mucous surface through the greater blandness of the fluid which bathes it. In this way most of the mineral waters act which seem to have power in reducing chronic catarrhal urinary conditions. Such waters as the Bethesda, Poland, Olysmic, Glen Sum- mit, Mountain Valley (Arkansas), certainly do not act by virtue of any min- eral ingredients, and are not, as a rule, much more valuable than filtered rain water taken very freely. They wash out the urinary passages and reduce irri- tation, but they do not dissolve stone, either alkaline or acid. The waters of AVildungen and Contrexville probably act in a similar manner, although an especial claim is made for the latter that it dissolves mucus and tends to cause a diminution in the excretion of phosphates. I have no personal knowledge of the truth of these claims. (3) Tonics act by improving the digestion and the vitality of the tissues, and (4) mineral acids act in the same way, and not directly through the urine. In a catarrhal condition of the urinary organs the administration of acid generally does not render the ammoniacal urine acid, but, by making the urine more dense, it may increase the grade of the catarrh, and conse- quently intensify the alkalinity of the urine. (5) Alkalies, on the other hand, sometimes agree very well, and by diminishing the acidity and acridity of the urine at the kidney, lessen the grade of the catarrh, and sometimes even gradually restore normal acidity to the urine. (6) Benzoic acid in 10-grain or even larger doses, in capsules, will sometimes arrest ammoniacal changes and allay catarrh, but it is a substance not well borne by most stomachs. Salicine, salicylic acid, the salicylates, and even oil of wintergreen, chlorate of potassium, and naphthaline, have been found serviceable in some cases. Sometimes useful, they are generally powerless to do good, but where they do act their influence is antagonistic to secondary phosphatic stone formation. Concerning the formation of primary acid stone something more may be VOL. vi.—13