RUPTURE OF THE BLADDER. 329 where its effects can be seen. "With the view of narrowing the principles of treatment, it is important carefully to analyze these two conditions. (1) Where the rupture has extended into the peritoneal cavity, I cannot find any evidence to warrant the belief that life has ever been saved without the intervention of surgery. In the few instances in which recovery lias taken place, it has been directly traceable to the aid which nature has received from the surgeon’s hand. It will be desirable to ascertain under what circumstances a favorable issue has thus been brought about. There is sufficient evidence to conclude that catheterization alone has in some instances been effectual. The cases recorded by Mr. Chaldicott1 and Dr. Thorp2 illustrate this. For in these there can be no doubt that large quantities of urine were drawn oft! from the peritoneal cavity, which, if allowed to remain, would, it is reasonable to suppose, have induced fatal consequences. Dr. Macdougall3also records two cases of recov- ery after rupture of the bladder where catheterization afforded important aid in bringing about recovery. The view taken that the use of the catheter has, in these and other instances, determined the satisfactory result, is strength- ened by what has been observed in cases which have terminated fatally. There are reasons for believing that the peritoneum is more tolerant of the presence of healthy urine than we might at first sight be inclined to suppose. In fact we may go further, and say that in these cases the fatal peritonitis set up, is due, not as much to the entrance of healthy urine within the cavity of an uninjured peritoneum, as to the decomposition of the urine which follows its confinement by, or even contact with, tissues more or less disintegrated by violence. Menzel’s4 experiments are confirmatory of this view, as they de- monstrate that healthy urine does not,of itself, necessarily cause destruction, and that its effects on the tissues are harmless as long as an escape is pro- vided for it. Subcutaneous injections of fresh healthy urine, made experi- mentally by Keyes,5 in man, were followed by no irritation whatever. It is when urine becomes retained, and decomposes, that it manifests its destruc- tive powers upon the tissues with which it is in contact. If no extensive damage be done to the abdominal parietes, if the urine which finds its wav into the cavity of the peritoneum be not largely contaminated with blood or other readily putrefiable matter,and if escape,as by catheterization, be provided for urine so effused, peritonitis need not necessarily be provoked. In Dr. Thorp’s case, to which reference has been made, in addition to catheteriza- tion, washing out of the peritoneum with tepid water, through the catheter, was employed. In the majority of cases of intra-peritoneal rupture of the bladder, one or other or all of these conditions necessary to recovery are usu- ally absent. The effused urine, often largely mixed with blood, comes in contact with bruised and lacerated tissues, and, unprovided with any way of escape, decomposes and gives rise to that rapid and destructive inflammation, probably septicaemia in its nature, which, in spite of all treatment, brings about a fatal termination in the course of a few days. Again, as already mentioned, cases of rupture of the bladder have been suc- cessfully treated by cystotomy, and, since these injuries are obviously hopeless if left to themselves, it has been further proposed to perform abdominal section for the purpose of allowing the opening in the bladder to be closed with sutures. Air. Ileat-h6 and Mr. Willett7 record cases in which this was done, and though the results were in neither instance successful, this might have 1 Provincial Med. and Surg. Journal, 1846. 2 Dublin Quarterly Jour, of Med. Sci., 1868. 3 Edinburgh Medical Journal, Jan. 1877. 4 Wiener med. Wochenschrift, Nos. 81-85, 1869. 6 Van Buren and Keyes, Diseases of the Genito-ITrinary Organs, p. 144. New York, 1874. 6 Med.-Cliir. Transactions, vol. lxii. 7 St. Bartholomew’s Hospital Reports, vol. xii.