INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE BLADDER AND PROSTATE. 366 prostate. Occasionally the elevation is so marked that it forms, as it were, two compartments, an upper and a lower one, in the wall of the bladder. Although the obstruction is structurally unconnected with enlargement of the prostate, it is rarely seen except in company with it. In explaining the production of this muscular barrier, there are grounds for regarding it as an illustration of a partial hypertrophy of the muscular coat of the bladder. As the prostate enlarges, a pouch often forms immediately behind it, in which urine is disposed to lodge. It is not unreasonable to suppose that, by an increase in the muscular fibres of the trigone, some provision is made, or attempted, for the evacuation of a part of the bladder, which, by the enlarge- ment referred to, is placed at a disadvantage so far as outlet is concerned. Treatment.—In reference to the treatment of the two latter varieties, it is, as already stated, exceedingly difficult, if not impossible, to disassociate their symptoms from those of the prostatic enlargement which almost invariably coexists. Guthrie appears to lay most stress, in the diagnosis of this affec- tion, on the detection of an obstacle to the passage of an instrument through the prostatic urethra, in addition to other symptoms of impeded micturition in elderly persons. Where there are reasons for entertaining the belief that such an obstacle •exists, endeavors must first be made to overcome it by the judicious employ- ment of prostatic dilatation, care being at the same time taken to avoid con- sequences arising from urine being retained and allowed to decompose in the bladder. The form of dilator presently to be referred to in connection with the early treatment of prostatic obstruction, will be found best suited for ful- filling the object now in view. Where relief is not possible by other means, section of the obstacle by some form of urethrotome, or concealed knife, has been practised and recommended by several surgeons of experience, including Guthrie, Mercier, Teevan, and Gouley. Such operations are not, however, to be lightly undertaken. As this subject will again come under notice in connection with the treatment of enlarged prostate, further reference to it will be for the present postponed. Experience, however, justifies the conclusion that the persistent employment of suitable bougies, where there is reason to believe that some structural barrier exists, such as a band, an enlarged prostate, or both, is capable, in the great majority of cases, of giving permanent relief without resorting to more strictly operative proceedings. Fissure of the Bladder. A fissure or crack at the neck of the bladder is an occasional cause of much distress, both to male and female patients; it is most frequently met with in the latter. The symptoms are very similar to those observed when fissure exists at other orifices. There is frequent micturition, with a sensation, often described as resembling alternating dilatation and contraction, at the close of the act, which is very significant. Sometimes a few drops of blood escape after the urine has been expelled, followed by a sharp, stinging pain, referred to the neck of the bladder. The pain varies in degree in the same patient, being usually intense when the urine is highly acid, diminishing in severity as neu- trality is approached. Examination of the prostate in the male, and of the neck of the bladder in the female, invariably produces, on pressure, a sharp, lancinating pain, as if a knife were being inserted, which is very characteris- tic of the affection. Similarly, the passing of an instrument into the bladder is attended with much distress. Occasionally these cases are referred to some