249 LITHOLAPAXY. litholapaxy is performed to use a lithotrite which will not clog, to operate with all possible care, to employ tubes which do not stretch the canal too decidedly, and to dislodge impacted fragments before withdrawing the tube. Hemorrhage during litholapaxy commonly occurs to a moderate degree, but the final wash, usually, is hardly, if at all, bloody. In some cases, on the other hand, the hemorrhage is profuse from the very first introduction of the lithotrite. I have had a case in which, on introducing the tube, pure blood flowed out, and only stopped after coagulation within the tube had made a plug large enough to occlude it. This plug was drawn out as a complete, long cast of the tube. The bleeding did not continue uniformly at this rate, and the washing was successfully followed up, but the amount of blood lost made it necessary to arrest the sitting before all the debris had been removed. Ten days subsequently the remaining two drachms of fragments were suc- cessfully removed, the remarkable fact being that on this occasion the amount of hemorrhage during the operation was exceptionally small. The patient was 75 years old; the stone weighed 513 grains; recovery was prompt and complete. In a case of hemorrhagic diathesis, or if the bladder happened to contain a villous growth along with the stone, very serious hemorrhage might occur. I am not aware that any case thus far has been reported in which a fatal result after litholapaxy has been ascribed to hemorrhage. Ultzmann, how- ever, has expressed the fear that serious, even fatal, hemorrhage may result from the operation.1 Clogging and Breakage of the Lithotrite.—The lithotrites commonly in use at the date of introduction of litholapaxy were of two kinds, both dangerous. The fenestrated lithotrite had a cutting edge along both sides of the male blade, and the male blade fitted snugly into the fenestra of the female blade. With this instrument, if the bladder was seized at all, a piece was quite cer- tain to be cut out. The bladder could not be pinched and dropped, and con- sequently the fenestrated instrument was used only on rare occasions and with special care, when a very hard, large stone had to be fragmented into large segments preparatory to final pulverization. The danger of using the instrument freely was well known, and was ex- pressed by Thompson before the Royal Medical and Chirurgical Society of London, March 16, 1878, when he said that he had not used a fenestrated instrument in the bladder for ten years. The non-fenestrated, pulverizing lithotrite would not readily catch the bladder or harm it much, if it did pinch up a fold ; but it had its own espe- cial danger in that it was quite sure to clog with debris after a few seizures had been made, and that it was generally next to impossible to free the blades when once they had become firmly impacted at the heel of the jaws. Conse- quently it was taught that, after from three to six successful seizures, the in- strument must be removed -and its jaws disgorged, to avoid inflicting serious damage upon the urethra. In fact, at the meeting of the Royal Medical and Chirurgical Society, already alluded to, both Thompson and Coulson laid great stress on this im- paction as sometimes “ preventing the withdrawal of the instrument,” and as having required, “ in one case, incision in the perineum.” With such instruments, manifestly, litholapaxy could not be properly performed. But since the introduction of the new operation a number of lithotrites have appeared whose claims consist in three elements: (1) strength; (2) blunted roughness and lateral bevelling of the male blade, so that the bladder, if caught, need not be seriously damaged; (3) fenestration, with a 1 Centralblatt f. Cliirurgie, No. 24, S. 393. 1882.