957 OSTEOMALACIA AND ERAGILITAS OSSIUM. results. Schutzenberger, Moers and Muck, and Volkmann, have not found any increase in the phosphates. Pagenstecher even found a diminution of the earthy salts in cases which progressed rapidly. Langendortf and Mommsen also have seen a considerable diminution of the phosphates. These differ- ences may be explained in two different ways. Phosphates have not been found in excess in the urine, because the examination was made during a period of calm. They have been found diminished, because, the work of decalcifica- tion being ended, there was no or scarcely any bone left; and because, being deprived of this source of supply, the combustion of the organism would necessarily be characterized by a lessened phosphatic waste. The other explanation would be to say that the earthy salts were eliminated by other secretions or excretions than the urine; by the sweat, by the tears, or by the saliva. It has indeed been observed in some cases that these liquids, when allowed to stand, deposited a white sediment like that of the urine. In nursing women, might not the milk also be an important route of elimination ? Pagenstecher did not find, it is true, any excess of phosphates in the milk, but he did not find it anywhere in his patients. This is a point to be verified, like so many others, in this difficult and complex subject of osteomalacia. Pagenstecher believes that the principal route of elimination is the bronchial and intestinal mucous membranes; and that thence arise the pulmonary catarrh, the digestive disorders, and the diarrhoea which are almost constant in this disease. It would he well in future to analyze the urine, and all the excretions and secretions from the beginning to the end. The great diffi- culty would be to establish a diagnosis soon enough. However it may he in regard to the constancy and degree of elimination of phosphates by the urine, there have been observed in several cases phosphatic deposits in this fluid, renal gravel, and calculi in the bladder. Among the abnormal substances in the urine, chemical analysis has also revealed a substance which its finders have called deutoxydhydrate of albumen. (Prout aud Bence-Jones.)1 Mommsen has thrice found the ordinary reac- tion with albumen, and at other times the reaction attributed to the deutoxydhydrate.2 The presence of albumen might be due solely to a calculous nephritis. More important in the interpretation of osteomalacia is the presence of lactic acid in the urine. It was first noted by Moers and Muck,3 according to Mommsen. Its quantity varies with the severity of the disease. Mommsen found lactic acid in treating the urine of the patient of Czerny by the method of Hoppe-Seyler (whiting, alcohol, sul- phuric acid, ether, oxide of zinc). But what somewhat impairs the value of these observations is the fact that normal urine sometimes contains lactic acid. (Lehmann, Brucke, Mommsen.4) Brucke believes even that to this substance should be partly attributed the acid reaction of normal urine. Etiology and Nature of Osteomalacia.—The etiology and nature of osteo- malacia are full of obscurity. There are distinguished three orders of causes:— 1. Predisposing Causes„ (1) Age.—It is said to be rarely observed below twenty years. Nelaton says that the cases of osteomalacia which are believed to have been seen in the new-born were very probably only cases of rachitis. Nevertheless, if by the term osteomalacia is understood the softening of already existing portions of bone, the possibility of its occurrence even in the new-born and in children, must be admitted. I have under observation at the present time, at La Charite, in a little girl twenty-one months old, a case of softening of the diaphyses of both femora and of both humeri, which 1 Lancet, 1847. 3 Deutsch. Arch. f. klin. Med., Bd. v. 2 Mommsen, loc. cit., p. 14. 4 Mommsen, loc. cit., p. 16.