456 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE URETHRA. Inflammatory stricture occupying almost the whole length of the urethra. (After Voillemier.) Cicatricial stricture. (After Voillemier.) rarely invaded by deposits of plastic material, which then occurs in the form of irregular bands, or of little kernels of size varying from that of a grain of rice to that of a large pea. (2) Cicatricial Strictures.—These strictures, as I have indicated, follow ulcerations or traumatisms. Ulcerations of the urethra are generally superficial, involving only the mu- cous membrane and the subm 11- Fig. 1327. cous cellular tissue, and only very rarely attacking the spon- gy tissue. The resulting stric- tures vary notably with the seat and the nature of the ulcerations. Ulcerations in acute urethritis are extremely rare, and are situated almost exclusively in the fora- mina which exist in the upper surface of the canal, and two or three centimetres from the mea- tus. They give rise to very Fig. 1328. small cicatrices, one or two millimetres in diameter, slightly depressed, and which in contracting draw upon the neighboring mucous membrane. (Fig. 1328.) The latter becomes puckered on each side, and finally forms, in the most pronounced cases, a sort of diaphragm, open at its centre. Such a stricture, when single, others but a slight obstacle to micturition, as a valve of this kind falls down before the stream of urine. But usually this alteration coexists with a more or less extensive organic stricture. Chancroidal ulceration may be met with anywhere in the course of the canal, but its seats of predilection are the meatus and the fossa navicularis. Even when it does not extend to the whole circumference of the mucous membrane of the urethra, it always occupies a portion large enough to mate- rially diminish the calibre of the canal. If the urethra be divided longitu- dinally (Fig. 1329), the cicatrix is seen to have the shape of a triangle, the apex of which protrudes into the canal, while its base is hidden in the spongy