1158 APPENDIX. the origin, early development, and progress of our Art, and of the several sects in medicine which existed in his time. He speaks of many surgeons and their works, concerning whom we at present have no other knowledge, and compliments some of his immediate predecessors. He mentions the names of no less than ninety authors, some of whom he refers to many times ; thus I find him quoting the opinions of Hippocrates in seventeen different places, those of Erasistratus in fourteen, and those of Asclepiades in twenty. But, in that branch of medicine which treats of manual operations, it is evident that all the advantage (although assistance may be derived from other means) is to be effected by these. Now although this part is the most ancient, yet it was cultivated more by Hippocrates, the father of all medicine, than by his predecessors; afterwards, being separated from the other branches of the healing art, it commenced to have its own distinct professors, and received considerable improvements in Egypt, principally by the authority of Philoxenes, who had treated of surgery most carefully in several volumes. Gorgias also, and Sostratus, Heron, and the two Apollonii, Ammonius of Alexandria, and many other celebrated men, all contributed by their researches to surgery. At Rome, also, professors of no mean talent, and, particularly of late, Tryphon the elder, and Euelpistus, and Meges, the most learned of them all, as it would appear by his writings, he having changed several things for the better, also contributed con- siderably to the art.1 It is quite obvious that human dissection was practised in Celsus’s day, though he condemns both human and animal vivisection, saying: “ To dissect the bodies of living animals is both cruel and superfluous; but the examina- tion of dead subjects is imperatively necessary for students, for they ought to know the position and order of the parts, which are demonstrated with greater facility in dead bodies.” His osteology is particularly accurate, and many of bis descriptions of the different organs, though quite brief, are fairly good. lie employed the Greek names for parts, which are the same as those still in use. Among them may be mentioned, diaphragm, peritoneum, omentum, jejunum, pylorus, ureter, zygoma, vertebra, femur, and cartilage. Before proceeding to analyze his surgical writings, it will be well for the reader to know what Celsus regarded as the necessary qualifications of a surgeon:—2 A surgeon ought to be young, or at least not far advanced in years; to have a firm, steady hand, and never liable to tremble ; to be no less dexterous with the left than with the right; to have an accurate and penetrating sight; an intrepidity of mind sufficient to bear up against the shrieks of his patient, yet compassionate to him whom he has undertaken to cure; he should neither hasten more than the case requires, nor cut less than is necessary ; but effect his purpose in every case, as if he were immovable by the importunities of his patient. He gives minute directions for the removal of arrows and other weapons which have been driven deeply into the soft parts of the body, and also into the bones and joints. He advises the greatest caution in enlarging the wounds, or in making counter-incisions, with a scalpel, to observe the posi- tion of the nerves, veins, and arteries; but “when any of these is exposed, it must be seized by a blunt hook, and held aside from the knife.” He speaks of using forceps, “ as in drawing a tooth.” If the arrow or other missile is driven into the bone, and is so firmly impacted that it cannot be extracted, he remarks, “ The last resource, when we have failed to remove it, is to perforate the bone near the part with a trephine, and from that opening to excise the bone in the form of the letter V, so that the lines may converge towards the point of the weapon; this being done, it must necessarily give way, and be easily extracted.” 1 Medicin. lib. vii. Praefatio. 2 Ibid.