TRAUMATIC LESIONS OF THE URETHRA. 433 attempted to establish a new theory. According to him, the urethra, fixed by the triangular ligament about two centimetres from the lower border of the symphysis, could not possibly be crushed against it; it could at best only be compressed against the face of the pubis, which, in the erect position, makes an angle of from 30° to 35° with the horizon, but this would be a rare mechanism. According to Cras, the contusing force scarcely ever comes directly upon the median line of the perineum; it acts most frequently upon one of its sides, forcing the urethra away laterally, so that the latter is squeezed between the contusing body and the highest portion of the descend- ing ramus of the os pubis. There exists at this point a sharp ridge, which can be felt through the skin, and which rises several millimetres above a plane resting on the anterior face of the symphysis. On the other hand, A. Poncet, of Lyons,1 concludes from investigations made upon the cadaver with Ollier, that the theory of Velpeau (crushing against the pubis) is applicable to lacerations of the bulbous portion of the urethra. As to lacerations of the membranous portion, they are the result of a true section of the canal against the sharp edge of a special ligament (the trans- verse ligament of Idenle), a kind of fibrous bridle with an acute edge, slightly concave, extending transversely between the two descending portions of the pubis, the height of which is from 10 to 12 millimetres. The urethra, in the experiments of Ollier and Poncet, was found to be divided at this level, but only at the expense of its upper wall. We shall see that this fact is in formal contradiction to the results of many autopsies. Finally, quite recently, Terrillon taking up in turn this question, has arrived at the following conclusions, likewise based on experiments on the cadaver. (1) Falling astride upon a narrow body, easily capable of being included in the sub-pubic angle, causes rupture of the urethra according to the mechanism pointed out by Cras (crushing of the urethra upon the sharp edge of the ischio-pubic ramus), and the rupture is situated at the middle portion of the bulb, on the lower lateral wall of the canal. (2) When a fall takes place astride on a voluminous body, which is with difficulty included under the pubic arch, the urethra is crushed against the anterior face of the pubis, or even against the lower edge of this bone, and the rupture is situated in the anterior portion of the bulb, or in the spongy body, and involves the lower wall of the canal. Blows on the perineum produce results analogous to the preceding. (3) Rupture of the Urethra by Fracture of the Pubis.—It can be easily conceived that the urethra, which is separated from the pubis by a distance which never exceeds fifteen or twenty millimetres, may be subjected to more or less con- siderable injury in consequence of a fracture of the bone, and even a slight displacement of one of the fragments. It can be conceived equally well that, while the spongy, the bulbous, and even the prostatic portion, which has a cer- tain mobility, escape rather easily the action of the contusing body, the mem- branous portion, fixed by the triangular ligament, cannot evade it. Expe- rience demonstrates, in fact, that it is most frequently this membranous por- tion which is injured by the lower border of the displaced bone. It is cer- tain, however, that in a large number of fractures of the pubis, the rupture of the urethra is produced by a different mechanism : I refer to rupture “ by traction”—by displacement of the urethral walls, held fast by aponeuroses. A fragment of the pubic bone, breaking ii^ from the side of the pelvis, drags with it the triangular ligament, which drags upon the wall of the urethra, and tears it. Finally, fracture of the pelvis may, by still another mechanism, 1 Note sur le siege precis des ruptures de l’urethre et sur leur meehanisme Lyon Medical, p. 709. 1871. vol. vr.—28