583 VARICOCELE. observations, and noticed that when no valves existed either at the orifice or a little below the orifice of the left spermatic vein, valves were present in the renal vein within half an inch of the opening. A dissection for which I am indebted to Mr. Hugh Smith fully corroborates the above statements. Gray1 states that a few valves are found in the spermatic veins, and one also at their point of junction with the renal vein or inferior vena cava in both sexes. The division of the right spermatic vein into several branches before it empties itself into the inferior vena cava, has also an important bearing on this question. This division and the presence of a valve are rendered necessary to stem the unbroken column of blood in the inferior vena cava. Varicocele is most prevalent between the ages of fifteen and thirty-five, during the season of the greatest activity of the sexual organs, when they demand for the exercise of their function a free supply of blood ; and it is said that the affection may result from excessive venery and masturbation. Exertions in which the abdominal muscles are called violently and suddenly into play, predispose to the disease, which is increased by much standing and by constipation. Mr. Maunder reported the case of a man who suffered from hrematocele of the cord from rupture of a vessel during coition. The influ- ence of varicocele on the nutrition and function of the gland is of much prac- tical interest, and most surgeons are agreed that a wasting of the testicle takes place, and that it becomes softer when varicocele is present. Sir James Paget, however, doubts the production of these injurious effects. Sir A. Cooper, who considered that varicocele hardly deserved the name of a “ disease,” yet met with some cases which he thought justified the performance of a severe opera- tion—excision of the scrotal tissues—for their relief. Mr. Ivey actually per- formed castration at the request of a patient who preferred parting with his testicle to enduring the pain caused by the disease. Sir William Fergusson cured a varicocele for a patient who requested him to remove the gland, by thrusting a red-hot awl into the varicose mass of veins. Varicocele is a very common complaint, but usually passes unnoticed, or at any rate untreated, as it commonly gives no pain. In many cases, patients complain of pain and discomfort only on the day succeeding sexual intercourse. There is no rela- tion between the size of the tumor and the amount of pain experienced by the patient. M. Gosselin says that, in the case of a man whose right testicle was useless owing to obliteration of the efferent duct, and who had varicocele of the left spermatic vein, no spermatozoa were found in the semen. Mr. Curling reports the case of a man, aged 29, with double varicocele, who was moderately robust, and in whom both testicles were small and soft, who had occasionally strong sexual feelings and emissions, but whose semen was destitute of spermatozoa. In another case, a man aged 38, of weak sexual powers, had the right spermatic duct blocked after epididymitis and abscesses on the right side, followed by softening of the right tes- ticle. He had a varicocele on the left side, and on this side the testicle was soft and flaccid. The fluid emitted in intercourse was destitute of spermatozoa. Landouzy records a case of varicocele in an infant, and another in a child of seven ; Bryant several cases which occurred before puberty, and one in a boy aged seven ; and Pearce Gould the cases of a boy aged four and of one aged eleven. The veins enlarge slowly and without pain, so that the varicocele is of some size before it is noticed. Eventually there is a sense of weight and uneasiness in the testicle and cord of the affected side; the dragging pain extends up to the loins, and is aggravated by standing for any length of time, or in a constrained position, and by violent muscular exertion. On stripping the patient, a flaccid condition of the scrotum is noticed, and the 1 Anatomy, Descriptive and Surgical. London, 1858.