LITHOTRITY. 225 jaws. I therefore determined to use always a fenestrated lithotrite, and as the only instruments of that sort then in existence, within my reach, had sharp cutting edges upon the male blade, and were dangerous instruments for rapid use, I simply took the Thompson’s non-fenestrated instrument, and had cut in its back a fenestra large enough to allow the sole of the male blade to pass through it. This instrument never clogged; it was almost impossible to catch the bladder with it; and by its aid all my earlier operations of lithola- paxy were performed. But it proved by no means large enough or strong enough for heavy work, wherefore I had the back of the female blade cut out of the Beliquet’s instrument. This gave great satisfaction, and out of it grew the instrument I use. I have had one large instrument made with the forward curve at the toe of the female blade, as advised by Bigelow, for ease of introduction ; but although this object is attained, yet I look upon the second curve as a disad- vantage, because this irregularity in the length of the blades makes it impos- sible, when the instrument is reversed in the bas-fond of the bladder, to pick up very flat or small fragments. I have demonstrated this on several occa- sions, using first the lithotrite with the double curve in vain, and then a similar instrument without this forward curve, with prompt success. In the handle of my larger lithotrite, I have placed two buttons, so that any finger of either hand, in any position, may strike a button easily, and promptly connect the screw. Either button works alone, or they work together. They are saddle-shaped, high, and much easier to work than those of the older models. All instruments now have the thread of the screw more oblique than for- merly, to increase the rapidity of action. I have very materially enlarged the wheel, thus more than making good the consequent loss of power- The larger instrument will lock upon a stone two and a half inches in diameter. For old-fashioned lithotrity, no instrument except the lithotrite is required, unless it be a searcher, and instruments for removing impacted fragments from the urethra. Mode op Performing Lithotrity.—All the preliminary steps laid down under the head Preparation of the Patient (p. 21b), having been attended to, the patient is placed on a hard couch or a table, upon his back, with the head comfortably raised, the shoulders low, and the hips elevated upon a hair cushion, so that they shall be higher than the shoulders. This allows the stone to roll away from the neck of the bladder toward the fundus, and favors the manipulation of the jaws of the instrument at the point of greatest safety, as far as possible from the neck of the bladder. The bladder should contain, if possible, from two to four ounces of fluid, and, unless an operator has accustomed himself to work in a bladder empty as well as full—which it is not difficult to do—a little borated warm water, at 100° F., may be injected through a soft catheter before the sitting commences. If thought proper, the bladder and urethra may first be injected with a four-per-cent, solution of cocaine. The operator stands upon the right side of the patient. The lithotrite is introduced as if it were a searcher, that is, after its beak passes the hole in the triangular ligament, its heel is made to slide along the membranous urethra and floor of the prostatic sinus by pressing the shaft in the direction of its axis, at the same time that the handle is being slowly depressed. The penis may be pulled upon, or its suspensory ligament relaxed by pressure with the left hand, while executing this manoeuvre. The only precaution necessary is not to depress the handle too rapidly, for by so doing the roof of the prostatic urethra might be injured. When the prostate is large, and its urethral segment lengthened, the lateral compression of the urethra VOL. vi.—15