572 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. It has been suggested that the presence of spermatozoa is due to the wound of a duct in the performance of the operation. Sir James Paget has explained the presence of the spermatozoa in the cysts by saying that “ certain cysts, seated near the organ which secretes semen, may possess the power of secret- ing a similar fluid.” Mr. Curling, who has long worked at the subject, points out that the cysts are connected with the excretory, and not with the secre- tory portion of the organ, and that cysts developed in cellular tissue would not secrete fully developed spermatozoa. He also contends that the cysts are not formed, as some surgeons have supposed, from the dilatation of the seminal tubes, but are independent formations in the connective tissue between the efferent- ducts and their investing membrane; and that the presence of spermatozoa is probably owing to the rupture of one of the tubes of the epi- didymis, and their escape into the hydrocele cyst. Spermatozoa are not dis- covered in small cysts, but in those of large size, into which they escape by rupture of the duct from a blow. Dr. Menzel,1 of Trieste, has described a case of spermatocele in which a direct com- munication with the testicle was proved to exist. When the latter was compressed, the cyst became distinct, and vice versa. In the museum of the Royal College of Surgeons there is a preparation presented by Mr. Curling, showing the ducts of the epididymis ramifying over the cyst-wall ; and an opening, through which a bristle is passed, is demonstrated passing from a duct to the cyst. The aperture is oval, and is evidently of some standing. Mr. Bryant tapped, for a man aged sixty, three cystic hydroceles. The first two cysts contained spermatozoa, and a milky fluid, while the third yielded a clear fluid but no spermatozoa. Encysted hydrocele of the testicle situated between the tunica vaginalis and the tunica albuginea is rarely met with. A case is figured in Mr. Curling’s work on diseases of the testicle, and the section of the testicle may be seen in the Hunterian Museum. The cyst, which is thick and dense, and which contained about two drachms of fluid, is situated in front of the testicle, which is depressed by it. Other cases are described by Mr. Hutchinson2 and Sir B. Brodie.3 Symptoms.—-The formation of an encysted hydrocele in the neighborhood of the epididymis is gradual and unattended with pain, and at times it ceases to grow. It is generally single, and does not attain to such a large size as a vag- inal hydrocele, hut is attached to the upper part of the testicle, which can be felt readily, and with which it moves. Its shape is irregular, its broadest- part being at times from side to side; it fluctuates or not according to the tension of the sac, which when thick may prevent the transmission of light. The fluid is clear or milky, and may contain spermatozoa. The cysts are at times multilocular. Treatment.—The best treatment for these cases is to inject the cysts with iodine, but they are liable to recur, and may require severer methods for their cure. They will generally yield to a seton, hut I should myself prefer to open the cyst with antiseptic precautions, and to stitch its wall and the skin to- gether with a few sutures. Diffused hydrocele of the cord is a rare condition described by Pott and Scarpa. The sheath of the cord is thickened, and the cellular spaces of the connective tissue are distended with serum, which gives a sense of fluctua- tion ; the swelling may extend upwards through the external ring. The tes- 1 London Medical Record, 1877. 2 Trans. Path. Soc. Lond., vol. vii. 3 Lond. Med. and Phys. Journal, vol. lvi. p. 522.