HYDROCELE. 575 be readily felt above, and is free from pain or enlargement. The patient, it observant, states that the swelling commenced at the bottom of the scrotum, and, forming without pain, was of some size when it was first noticed. In some instances the testicle is to be distinctly seen and felt at the lower part of the scrotal swelling, just as in cases of hernia. A hernia may appear suddenly, after a strain, and, commencing above in the abdomen, it forces its way down into the scrotum, travelling along the spermatic cord, which it obscures. When first noticed it is small, and returns into the abdomen at night. In congenital cases it fills the tunica vaginalis and obscures the testicle, but in ordinary non-congenital cases the testicle is readily seen and felt at the bottom of the scrotum, instead of being obscurely felt at the hack part of the swelling, as in a case of hydrocele. The hernial swelling, if it contains intestine, is resonant on percussion; it is not trans- parent, and, if reducible, returns into the abdomen with a gurgling sound when manipulated. The abdominal rings become dilated, and readily admit the finger. The impulse on coughing, which is so characteristic of hernia, may be present in a hydrocele which runs up the cord ; it is, however, less strong and distensile. The diagnosis is sometimes difficult, but may be ren- dered clear by making an antiseptic incision or puncture into the swelling. A malignant tumor of the testicle may resemble a hydrocele when the latter has very thick walls and its fluid is dark-colored. The tumor may be soft enough to give a sense of fluctuation, and there may be associated with it some fluid in the tunica vaginalis. A tumor grows continuously, and at times rapidly, occupies the situation of the testicle, and, if recent, may be painless, and the cord free from tenderness or swelling. The cord and ingui- nal glands eventually become enlarged. A solid tumor is believed by most surgeons to feel heavier than one formed of water; but M. Nelaton strongly questions this belief. As a rule, the surface of a tumor will not be abso- lutely smooth, but will be irregular here and there; besides, testicular sensa- tion is lost. A large hydrocele will probably have the longer history, and a puncture will solve the question if it cannot he otherwise decided. Complications of Hgdrocele.—(1) A vaginal hydrocele is often associated with an encysted hydrocele of the testicle in the neighborhood of the epididymis. When the vaginal or larger hydrocele has been tapped, a cyst which fluc- tuates and is transparent remains behind ; the former yields a yellow, the latter a limpid or whitish fluid which at times contains spermatozoa. When a vaginal hydrocele has been tapped and injected without success, search must be made for a second cyst which is often the cause of the vaginal hy- drocele, the size of which has masked its presence. (2) A vaginal hydrocele may be associated with an encysted hydrocele of the cord; the former is below the latter, and often separated from it by a well-marked constriction. The fluctuation in the two cysts is distinct. (3) A vaginal hydrocele, when accompanied by a diffused hydrocele of the cord, would present a swelling of the tunica vaginalis below, and a distended, thickened condition of the cord which would prevent the ready introduction of the finger into the inguinal canal. Fluctuation would be felt independ- ently in both swellings, and acupuncture or the introduction of Dr. Southey’s trocars would disperse them. (4) A hernia may be associated with a vaginal hydrocele ; this is not at all an uncommon combination. The hernia, which is not transparent, and which has an impulse on coughing, is situated at the upper part of the swell- ing, and has the hydrocele in front of it; it may be reduced, and the hydro- cele may then be treated in the ordinary way. (5) A hernia may push its way down through an encysted hydrocele of the