INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE BLADDER AND PROSTATE. 420 into the prostate of no inconsiderable quantity of shrinking or cicatricial tissue. I see that Dr. Gouley1 claims priority for the proceeding just de- scribed ; what is of more importance is that it has received his approval. Rupture of the Prostate and Bladder. An instructive case of extra-peritoneal rupture of the male bladder by crushing, has been reported by Dr. R. F. Weir.2 The patient having been etherized, an incision three and a half inches long was made under sublimate irrigation in the median line, midway between symphysis and umbilicus, until the subperitoneal plane was reached, where a large cavity was found containing at least a pint of bloody, undecomposed urine. The finger could be carried its full length behind the symphysis, but nothing was detected. To permit a more complete diagnosis, as well as to allow of the carrying, if possible, of a drainage-tube from the hypogastric opening down and out of the perineum, the patient was placed in the lithotomy posi- tion, and, on a staff introduced into the bladder, a median incision was made, opening the urethra just anterior to the prostate; the finger, passed in here towards the bladder, revealed a rent running along the left side of the roof of the prostate, which was lost in the wall of the bladder itself. Its upper limit was not defined, purposely, to avoid extra damage to the part. Through the supra-pubic incision a large silver catheter was carried, and, aided by the finger in the perineal wound, was caused to pass through the laceration of the bladder and to emerge from the lower wound. To the eye of this catheter a thread was attached, and a large rubber drainage-tube was pulled through as the silver instrument was withdrawn. Each end of the tube was secured by a suture to the skin, and a second drainage-tube was then passed into the bladder, and its external end also fastened in the perineum, The cavity which had contained the extravasated urine and the bladder were carefully washed out with a warm sublimate solution of 1 to 2000, and iodoform gauze was placed over each wound, though so lightly that urine could readily flow through the dressing. The patient made an excellent recovery. Tliis case illustrates not only the value of the perineal incision under such circumstances, but the importance of providing the most perfect kind of urine-drainage as a fundamental principle in the treatment of ruptures of the bladder. Additional prominence has been given to this point in Mr. Rivington’s recent and important work.3 1 New York Medical Journal, May 2, 1885. 2 Medical Record, March 29, 1884. 9 Rupture of the Urinary Bladder, based on the Records of 300 cases. London, 1884.