471 VITAL AND ORGANIC LESIONS OF TIIE URETHRA. one, in which the stricture is incised from within outwards—this is internal urethrotomy ; the other, in which the incision is made from without inwards— this is external urethrotomy. 1. Internal Urethrotomy.—The idea of overcoming by means of a cutting instrument the obstruction which is offered to the emission of urine, goes back to the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries; and various instruments, which I will not describe, were devised for this purpose by Ferri, Ambroise Pare, Diaz, and Yiguerie. Those of Physick (1795), of Arnolt (1819), and of MacGhie (1823), were much less imperfect; but it is to Amussat that we owe the first urethrotome really meriting the name. It was in 1824 that this surgeon presented to the Academy of Medicine a urethrotome suit- plied with a conductor, to divide strictures from before backwards ; and some time after a scarificator, having for its object the practice of the same opera- tion from behind forwards. Since this epoch a large number of urethrotomes have been devised, among which I will cite those of Leroy d’Etiolles, of Rey- bard, of Ricord, of Charriere, of Civiale, of Caudmont, of Maisonneuve, and of Voillemier. The urethrotome of Maisonneuve (Fig. 1336), the most simple, and that generally employed, is composed: 1st, of a curved, grooved tube, from one to three millimetres in diameter and thirty centimetres long, having several millimetres of the outer surface of its internal extremity cut with a screw- Fig. 1336. Urethrotome of Maisonneuve.—A, complete instrument; a, grooved catheter; b, handle carrying the blade c of the instrument; d, conductor ; e, screw, co which the conductor is attached. B, blade of the urethrotome the apex of which, a, is blunt; b, shaft supporting the blade ; ec, cutting edges in the shape of a ploughshare. thread ; 2d, of a delicate, gum-elastic bougie, with a conical point, and bear- ing on its outer end a small cap, cut inside with a screw-thread which tits very exactly with that of the tube; 3d, of a flat blade, resembling very closely an isosceles triangle, having a blunt apex, cutting sides slightly hol- lowed, and prolonging by its base the extremity of a metallic stylet, thirty centimetres long, intended to slide in the hollow tube. The extensible por- tions of the urethra admitting of being lifted up by the blunt angle, the cutting side cannot reach them, and section of the mucous membrane is effected oidy at points where the calibre of the canal is diminished. This, then, is the way ot proceeding: the bougie having been previously introduced into the urethra, the grooved tube is screwed to'Tts extremity and pushed into the bladder. This done, the penis is stretched firmly on the canula with one hand, while with the other the stylet is engaged in the groove of the catheter, and driven in so that its blade traverses the whole length of the canal. Then there is nothing left but to withdraw the instru- ment, and to place in the urethra a catheter which shall be allowed to remain. Urethrotomy furnishes a satisfactory result only when the stricture is incised through its entire thickness; superficial incisions, even practised at a number of points, do not sensibly augment the calibre of the canal. Like-