324 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE BLADDER AND PROSTATE. removal of an enormous uterine fibroma. The bladder was cut across for several inches,, as it was extensively spread out over the anterior face of the tumor. The wound of the viscus was closed with fine silver wire. The patient died a few hours afterwards of shock and hemorrhage. Dr. Thomas reports a case where he found the bladder closely attached to the anterior face of an ovarian tumor. There was some doubt about it, and he cut into the bladder, passed his finger in to clear up the diagnosis, and then closed the incision by suture ; the patient quickly recovered. Punctured wounds are by no means common. They are generally caused by falls from a height, the patient being impaled on stakes, spikes, or other sharp projections. These injuries are usually accompanied by a considerable amount of laceration, which frequently involves the rectum and neighboring structures. When recovery follows, a fistulous opening is often left. Punc- tured wounds of the bladder are sometimes made by the surgeon with an aspirator-needle or a trocar, for the relief of retention of urine, advantage being taken of the anatomical disposition of the parts to open the viscus without wounding the peritoneum. Consequently this operation is almost invariably practised with impunity, its results thus contrasting with those which usually follow accidental wounds of the organ. Lacerated wounds, like those of the last variety, are very fatal. When the peritoneum is involved, they are always most serious; other parts in the neighborhood are often injured; and, if recovery takes place, some permanent inconvenience, such as a fistula, is almost unavoidable. The possibility of a wound of the bladder being complicated with fracture must not he lost sight of; and in making explorations with the finger, care should be taken to remove any fragment of bone which may be separated, or is at all likely to become necrosed. Instances are on record where pieces of bone have made their way into the bladder, either by penetration at the time of injury, or subsequently by exfoliation and ulceration, and have formed the nuclei of vesical calculi. Dr. Banister1 has recently published an account of a patient in whom two vesical calculi, formed on nuclei of bone, resulted from a gun- shot wound of the pelvis. The possibility of the bladder being wounded must always be remembered where fracture of the pelvis exists ; for in this way it has been both punctured and lacerated with fatal results. Hence, it has become a rule in all cases of injury to the pelvis, when the violence has been considerable, for the surgeon to make a careful examination of the bladder with the catheter, for the purpose of ascertaining this point. Gunshot wounds are, for the most part, met with in military practice, although examples of them are not wanting in civil life. The damage that is thus occasioned, not only to the bladder but to adjacent parts, is often very extensive, and it seems remarkable that recovery should be as frequent as statistics show it to be. In 131 cases of gunshot wound of the bladder, complicated with fracture of one or other of the adjacent bones, collected by Dr. Bartels2 and quoted by Coulson,3 there were only 38 deaths; from which we may infer, that these wounds by their extent afford a facility for the escape of urine and pus, which is favorable to recovery, a deduction rendered still more probable by the figures showing double wounds of the bladder to be somewhat less dangerous than single ones. Military experience furnishes many examples in which the bladder and rectum having been shot through, recovery has followed—a result which has been generally attributed • 1 American Journal of the Medical Sciences, January, 1882. 2 Archiv fiir klin. Chir., Bd. xxii. 3 On Diseases of the Bladder and Prostate, Gth ed., p. 86.