7 FOREIGN BODIES IN TIIE (ESOPHAGUS. verse rupture1 being on record. The length of the tear in recorded cases varied from half a centimetre to five centimetres. The mucous coat often suffers to a greater extent than the muscular and fibrous coats. The edges are usually clean cut. In six out of the fourteen cases alluded to, the left pleura was opened, and in one2 of these the diaphragm was ruptured in addi- tion. The contents of the oesophagus, food and blood, may he discharged into the pleura when that cavity is penetrated ; otherwise they are discharged into the mediastinum. The immediate cause of rupture is violent vomiting, when the stomach is well filled, whether the vomiting he spontaneous or produced by emetics. In two instances it has followed voluntary efforts to dislodge a foreign body. Al- though the healthy oesophagus has occasionally undergone rupture,3the acci- dent usually occurs in the diseased organ, and especially in intemperate subjects.4 Symptoms.—The symptoms are sudden acute pain in the oesophageal region during vomiting, with the sense of something having given way inside, htema- temesis, great distress and anxiety, emphysema of the neck, and rapid collapse from the shock. The emphysema may extend beyond the neck, over the trunk, and even over the greater portion of the body. Diagnosis.—This seems to he very obscure despite the characteristic features of the symptoms, the nature of the lesion having been hut once recognized during life.5 Prognosis.—The prognosis is unfavorable. The patients die within a few hours from collapse, usually in from four to eighteen hours. One patient has been known to survive twenty-four hours, one fifty hours, and one seven days and a halt'.6 Treatment.—The fatal character of the accident shows that treatment is useless, except to relieve suffering. Rectal alimentation and stimulation seem indicated, with the hypodermic use of anodynes and diffusible stimu- lants, and the local use of ice to relieve thirst. The body and the injured organ should be kept as completely at rest as possible. Foreign Bodies in the (Esophagus. Foreign bodies often become temporarily lodged in the oesophagus, and frequently become impacted in the organ; usually singly, sometimes in numbers. Although in most instances the result of accident in deglutition, the lodgment may be intentional, whether the foreign body he introduced in jugglery; or swallowed in concealment of coins, jewels, or dispatches; or inserted or swallowed as a means of suicide. ■ Matters which are vomited occasionally become lodged in the oesophagus, and, exceptionally, missiles from firearms. The objects most frequently lodged in the oesophagus are alimentary boluses, chiefly fragments of bone, of meat, or of vegetable, masticated or unmasticated, which have been swallowed inadvertently, and often matters swallowed in masses too large for descent by ordinary peristalsis. Extraneous bodies of the most varied character have become lodged in the oesophagus, such as coins, fish-hooks, pins, tacks, nails, blades, knives, forks, spoons, keys and key-rings, beads, sponges, dental plates with false teeth, palate-obturators, seat-worms, 1 Boerhaave’s case. 2 Williams, Trans. Path. Soc. London, vol. i. p. 151. * Boerhaave, Van Swieten’s Commentaries, vol. ii. p. 102. Edinburgh, 1786 ; Oppolzer, Vorlesungen iiber specielle Pathologie und Therapie, Bd. ii. Lief. 1, S. 151. Erlangen, 1872 ; Fitz, Am. Jour. Med. Sciences, Jan. 1877. 4 Charles, Dublin Jour. Med. Sci., p. 311, Nov. 1870. Cites in addition Dryden, Medical Commentaries, vol. ii. Decade 2, 1788, and gives several other references. 5 Meyer, Med. Vereinszeitung v. Preussen. Nos. 39, 40, und 41. 1858; cited by Mackenzie. 6 Fitz, case of Allen (Am. Jour. Med. Sci., Jan. 1877, p. 17).