341 CYSTITIS. variety, indicating the exceptional character of the displacement. [An eighth case, complicated with prolapsus of the rectum, in a child sixteen months old, came under the editor’s observation in the spring of 1884.] In a paper on this subject, Mr. John Croft1 briefly describes the appearances and symptoms of the affection, as follows: “ A small, pyriform, red, vascular, elastic tumor, situated between the labia, below the clitoris, and in front ot the vaginal orifice; the urethra not distinguishable ; the ureters exposed, and perhaps distilling urine; a history of more or less incontinence previous to the ap- pearance of the tumor; these symptoms should lead one to recognize an inversio vesica;, and to distinguish such an affection from a solid polypoid growth.” In the case recorded by Mr. Croft, rupture of the inverted bladder, and escape of peritoneal fluid took place owing to the violent expulsive efforts set up by the protru- sion. In spite of this serious complication, after return of the bladder had been effected by manipulation under chloroform, the patient made a good recovery, which, from a subsequent report, appears to have been permanent. In a similar case recorded by Dr. Lowe,2 it is stated that treatment by actual cautery was employed, and occupied eleven months ; there was no relapse, but some degree of incontinence remained. Sufferers from this displacement have, on account of its rarity and resem- blance to a polypoid growth, been exposed to some risks connected with false diagnosis. Mr. Crosse,3 under the impression that the inverted viscus was a vascular tumor, was contemplating its removal by ligature before he discovered its true nature. The affection appears to be due, not to any malformation of the parts, but to a condition of relaxation as a predis- posing cause, and to some violent expulsive effort, attendant on micturition or the discharge of feces, as the exciting cause. Treatment.—The individual cases to which reference has been made indi- cate what may be done towards remedying this extreme!}7 rare displacement. Cystitis. Cystitis, or inflammation of the bladder, is met with in varying degrees of severity, being usually described as acute or chronic; but between these ex- tremes all shades of the affection are to be seen, and hence this classification must only be accepted as representing typical examples. Acute cystitis may be provoked in any of the following ways, which are selected as examples of causation, rather than as including all the circum- stances under which the disease may arise: by extension of inflammation from some adjacent part, as in gonorrhoea ; by changes in the urine resulting from its decomposition, as in retention from stricture; by injuries of various kinds, not excepting surgical operations; by the irritation caused by frag- ments of calculi; and by the presence in the urine of certain elements foreign to its composition, of which those derived from cantharides, oil of turpentine, and other stimulating drugs, furnish illustrations. In reference to the causation of cystitis, it has been well remarked by Dr. Owen Rees,4 that “ it may indeed be regarded quite as an open question whether we have a right to believe in inflammation occurring in the bladder, 1 St. Thomas’s Hospital Reports, New Series, vol. ii. 2 Lancet, March 8, 1862. 3 Transactions of the Provincial Medical and Surgical Association, New Series, 1846. 4 Croonian Lectures on Calculous Disease, p. 47.