304 LITIIOTKITY. displaced, its small volume may be conjectured. Its free or encysted condi- tion may be inferred from the ease or difficulty with which, when once touched, it can be touched again. If soft and friable, the sound elicited by striking against the stone may be dull and muffled; if the “click” be a sharp one, it is usual to conjecture that the stone is hard. If, on touching it, the instrument can be sent in every other direction without feeling others, it is likely that the stone is single. It is often found that a change in the position of the patient will facilitate the detection of stone. Ity some an examination in the erect posture is sub- mitted to more readily than if lying down. It looks less formidable. It is the one I usually begin with, and, if unsatisfactory, the patient can be easily induced to assume a reclining position, or, if necessary, both in succession. On one occasion when I suspected stone, an examination in either posture was fruitless, and it was only when the patient bent forward in a kneeling position that the calculus could be felt. When a patient is examined in the standing posture a running conversation should be kept up to divert his attention, and also to give early intimation of dizziness, faintness, or sickness. But no patient should lie allowed to pass an instrument for himself when in the erect position.1 Sometimes, when all these methods fail with a full blad- der, they may be successful with an empty or partially empty one. As the urine escapes, the instrument being just within the bladder, the calculus is drawn in against it when washed towards the urethra. When ordinary sounding fails to detect stone, it has been recommended to apply the stetho- scope above the pubes while the bladder is being explored, when calculi of small size may be heard when they are too small to be felt. Another plan is to apply a sounding-board at the end of the instrument itself. In explor- ing for stone, however, the finger is more delicate than the ear, and the appre- ciation it makes of a calculus is more reliable. Some years ago Professor Andrews, of Chicago, exhibited to the Illinois State Medical Society a stone-searcher, which utilized both the sense of hearing and that of touch. The instrument which he used consisted of a tube, hollow or solid, which was attached to an ordinary Thompson’s searcher, and the free end, mounted with an ear-piece, was placed in the surgeon’s ear. The suggestion is an ingenious one, but I doubt if the educated and sensitive sense of touch is much aided by this contrivance. Sand or grit which can be heard, may also be felt. But these methods, although usually successful, are sufficiently often unsuccessful to make it our duty not to pronounce too emphatically against the existence of stone after one or two, or even several examinations, when the symptoms point in that direction. Sometimes the calculus is small and eludes detection; sometimes it lies securely imbedded in a pouch; some- times the bladder is so dilated as to present the appearance of a second viscus ; sometimes the stone lies in a kind of cul-de-sac of its own; sometimes, and especially in old men, the stone lies below an enlarged prostate; and some- times it eludes detection for a time, and, when found, can be touched again at pleasure. Desire Bayard, aged 22, and presenting all the signs of calculus, was admitted to the Hotel-Dieu Hospital. On introducing a sound the calculus was at once felt. Next day the patient was placed upon the operating table, and chloroform was admin- istered preparatory to operating. The sound was again introduced, but a long and careful examination failed to establish the presence of stone. The patient was af’ter- 1 The members of the profession in Montreal will remember the sad result to one of the most distinguished of their body, in the prime of life, of an attempt of the kind. Before the metallic instrument had reached the bladder, he fainted and fell forwards upon it. Severe injury of the- urethra was caused, with extravasation of urine, gangrene, and death.