OVARIAN AND UTERINE TUMORS. 840 5. In certain cases of tumors surrounded by free fluid, the result of peritonitis, pro- vided that the fluid shows a tendency to reaccumulate after two or three punctures. These (says Dr. Keith) embrace every form of case in which I have yet ventured to interfere by operation. The ordinary operation of hysterectomy (as distinguished from Ilegar’s method) is performed as follows :— The patient being etherized and recumbent, and the usual antiseptic pre- cautions taken, an incision is made in the median line of the abdomen as for ovariotomy. But this incision must be much longer than in the latter case —from six to ten inches at once. The peritoneum being divided, the adhe- sions around the tumor, which nearly always exist, are to he quickly exam- ined, and those which are densest and offer most resistance to the mobility of the tumor are grasped with stout long clamp-forceps, and divided at once on the distal side; the tumor is then rotated and drawn up, if possible, through the abdominal wound. At this point it will often be necessary to enlarge the latter to fully twelve or fourteen inches; nor need there be any scruple in this, for no clinical evidence shows that long incisions retard recovery, if their closure be equable and complete. As the tumor is raised, or extracted through the abdominal wound, its connection with the bladder must be carefully examined. This can easily be detected if, contrary to the usual rule, the bladder be left full of urine before ether is given., In an in- structive case narrated by Emmet,1 this sagacious departure from established custom probably saved him from the misfortune of cutting; into the bladder, which has often befallen others. If adherent, the bladder is rapidly sepa- rated, and the broad ligaments and their contents are ligatured as far from the uterus as possible, with two stout ligatures, and divided between the two points. If tightly adherent to the tumor, they should not be dissected off but removed with it above the clamp. Then, dealing with the posterior pelvic adhesions as with those first described, a temporary clamp, or Koeberle’s serre-nceud, or an elastic ligature, is made to constrict the base of the tumor, and the mass above it is rapidly cut away. The adhesions must now at once be attended to. They are all inspected carefully in succession ; fresh ligatures of catgut or Chinese silk are applied where necessary; the clamp- forceps are cautiously removed and the bleeding points within their grasp tied with more ligatures ; the entire cavity of abdomen and pelvis is thoroughly sponged and cleansed, and then the permanent clamp2 is applied to the pedicle. If possible, this should go just below the temporary clamp or ligature, and yet not so far down as to make undue traction when placed outside the abdominal wound. The surgeon shaves down the pedicle to within a quarter of an inch of the clamp; burns or “ cooks” the surface thoroughly with the actual cautery (Paquelin’s); if there be any cause to apprehend the slipping of the pedicle through the clamp, thrusts two long steel pins (as advised by Thomas) through the pedicle obliquely just above the clamp ; examines the pelvis once more for oozing bloodvessels ; and, if all seems dry, closes the abdominal wound at once. This is done as in ovariotomy, the flat sponge being kept under until the sutures are in situ, the peritoneum closed separately with catgut, and the walls with silver wire or Chinese silk; the sutures should be numerous, about four to the inch, and must include the entire thickness of the walls. The dressings are the same as after ovariotomy. The clamp usually becomes loosened about the seventh or eighth day, and the patient sits up in bed at the end of two weeks. 1 Op. cit., p. 612. 2 Dawson’s or Thomas’s clamp is employed in New York. I prefer the former, hut both are excellent.