110 ULCERATION AND STRICTURE OF THE RECTUM. that long-continued pressure of the child’s head in labor has been the exciting cause, bruising of the bowel having perhaps taken place. Possibly, also, in- flammation may be induced by the passage of very dry and hardened feces, though doubtless this condition may obtain for years, as it often does in old people, without producing stricture. I have seen one case in which the frequent and rather rough use of an enema-pipe produced a stricture. It is stated in some works that the stools in stricture are thin, long, and pipe-like. According to my experience, such stools occur far oftener in spasm of the sphincter, enlarged prostate gland, enlarged retroverted uterus, and tumors of the pelvis generally. In true stricture, on the other hand, the stool is in very small broken pieces, the feces having no actual form, and looseness often alternating with this lumpy condition. The discharge in simple stricture is like the white of an unboiled egg, or a jelly fish, and is passed when the bowels first, act. There is no discharge looking like coffee-grounds, such as is constantly seen in ulceration, nor is there the morning diarrhoea which we find in that complaint. The pain is generally referred not to the bowel itself, but to distant parts, notably the penis, the perineum, the lower part of the back, the thighs, under the but- tocks, and occasionally the stomach. A stricture of the rectum, resulting entirely from muscular spasm, is a thing that I am very much disinclined to believe in. I am of opinion that these stric- tures exist only in the mind of the surgeon, who has been misled by the bougie catching in a fold of the gut, or against the promontory of the sacrum. If in doubt as to the existence of a stricture, the surgeon should use a long and very elastic enema-tube, and inject fluid as he passes it, so as to distend the gut and remove any intussusception of the upper part of the rectum. This condition, I think, has often been mistaken for stricture, as unless the bougie goes directly into the aperture of the invaginated portion of the gut, it gets into the sulcus at the side, which is a cul-de-sac, and which prevents the in- strument from passing. In exploring the rectum, I use vulcanite balls olive-shaped bodies of different sizes, mounted on pewter stems, with flattened, roughened handles. Fig. 119 Instrument for detecting rectal stricture. They bend easily to any form; and by their use I can he certain of detecting a stricture. For when they pass, or on quietly withdrawing them, the bad is felt to come suddenly, and perhaps with some difficulty, through the constriction. Fig. 1193. Rectal syringe. In cases of stricture where there is great spasm with a small amount of organic disease, much good may be done by the use of conical bougies. Opium or belladonna with oil should be injected previously, and the bougie should be smeared over with blue ointment, which is tenacious and lubricates