1058 ORTHOPAEDIC SURGERY. by Mr. Vm. Adams, of which a detailed account will be found in the work already referred to ; from my own personal experience of this method of treatment, and from having fortunately been able to watch the practice of Mr. Adams himself in the management of a large number of cases, I can assert that all conditions of this affection, of whatever severity they may be, are capable of relief. To obtain success, however, some knowledge of the use of mechanical appliances, and an aptitude in the performance of the sub- cutaneous section of contracted tissues, are necessary ; for there is perhaps no condition of contraction, the treatment of which so much requires facility in the employment of orthopaedic practice, as does that of JJupuytren’s con- traction of the fingers. Taking, for the purpose of description, a case similar in its nature to that illustrated in Fig. 0035, the operation is commenced by first dividing the contracted bands of fascia which are present in the palm, and afterwards deal- ing with the prolongations upwards to the phalanges. An anaesthetic must always be given unless there is some grave objection to its administration; in the first place the operation is a very painful one, and in the second it is very necessary that the hand should he kept perfectly still, and that the surgeon should have complete command of his knife. The knife used must be one with a very small blade and a straight-cutting edge ; the fascia is first divided as near the “wrist as can safely be done without risk of wound- ing the superficial palmar arch. The puncture is made about an eighth of an inch to the ulnar side of the contracted band ; the blade is worked forwards between the skin and the fascia, and when the band is quite covered by the knife, the edge is turned and the fascia is divided. Care must be taken not to depress the point of the knife so as to wound the digital arteries or the flexor tendons; but of this there is little danger, as the contracted fascia is tensely strained across the hand, and is quite a quarter of an inch above the deeper structures. Having perfectly freed the contrac- tion at this point, the wound is covered with a small pad of lint or other material, and pressure is kept up by the finger of an assistant. A second section is made about midway between the first incision and the base of the flexed finger, the same mode of procedure being followed. These two incisions will probably completely overcome the contraction in the palm, but if necessary a third or fourth must be made, until this part of the hand is quite relaxed. The surgeon will best assure himself of the completeness of this part of the operation by extending the fingers as far as possible, and carefully feeling with the point of the finger for any small fibres of fascia that may have escaped his notice. Having completed the palmar portion of the operation, the pads over the wounds are fixed by strapping ; extra pres- sure is made by a few large pads over the smaller ones, and the whole are firmly, not tightly, secured with a bandage. The prolongations to the fingers are next divided ; usually, lateral bands will be found on each side of the first phalanges, and must be divided by separate incisions, each cut being closed as soon as the section is completed, as was done in the palm. The first phalanx should now be capable of being brought into its normal posi- tion with the hand ; if the second phalanx is drawn down upon the first, more lateral bands will be found extending to its base, and must also be divided. The pads on the wounds are next secured, and the bandage is carried round the fingers that have been operated upon. A flexible metal splint, long enough to reach about three inches up the forearm, and to the ends of the fingers, is next applied as in the case of tenotomy ; the fingers may be straightened as far as can be done easily, but it is not desirable to attempt to get them quite straight at this stage. The extra-pressure pads may be removed on the day following the operation, but no haste should be