858 INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS OF THE BONES. tit is and internal periostitis, or endo-periostitis. The latter is the more common and the more important, because of the anatomical relations of the deep layer of the periosteum with the other constituent tissues of the bone. Besides, this layer is never inflamed without more or less participation of the fibrous layer in the inflammation ; so that it is not worth while to try to separate that which is always more or less united. It is best simply to dis- tinguish from periostitis proper, inflammation of the parosteal layers, which in certain cases is found to have peculiar characteristics, remaining indepen- dent of the hone and without appreciable influence upon it, unlike true inflammation of the periosteum, which is always propagated more or less to the other elements of the bone. In bones which are superficial and easily accessible, osteitis manifests itself by an increase in size, and by pains which in certain bones are characteristic. The bone swells, but this increase in volume is not due to the bone-substance itself; it is the result either of thickening of the periosteum or of infiltra- tion of the parosteal layers, that is to say, of the cellular tissue which surrounds it. Under the influence of this double cause a diaphysis may attain an enor- mous size ; if the irritative process he long continued in a tibia or femur, the diameter of the bone may, after a certain time, appear at the central part double or even treble its normal size. This thickening is only apparent; it is made up in its deepest part by the osseous layers under the periosteum, which themselves are covered by the thickened fibrous layer of the perios- teum, and more externally by the thickening and infiltration of the parosteal layers (muscle and connective tissue). This last constituent of the swelling of the bone is very variable, and tends moreover to disappear gradually as the inflammation subsides. When the bone is subcutaneous, this thickening of the periosteum, diffuse or limited, is accompanied by heat appreciable to the hand. It is more or less painful, according to the course of the inflam- mation. Painless, or nearly so, in the slow and chronic forms, the perios- teal swelling is accompanied by acute pain, with nocturnal exacerbations, when the course of the affection is acute or subacute. These pains are in- creased by pressure, and may become very severe in certain region. They increase in intensity when pus is formed under the periosteum. They are of a nocturnal type, but in certain regions they are almost continuous, and are accompanied by high fever and all the signs of deep inflammations. The periosteum, which forms a continuous membrane around the bone, constitutes a barrier which is long impassable to the products of inflammation. There is, therefore, strangulation of the inflammatory tissues; and, although the resistance of the periosteum is infinitely less than that of the bony case of the diaphysis, it is easy to understand the acuteness of the pains and their per- sistence, as long as the periosteum is not naturally perforated or artificially incised. There is nothing so variable as the general symptoms and reaction in inflammations of the periosteum; wanting, or almost wanting, in syphilitic periostitis and in some cases of periostitis of traumatic origin, these symptoms develop with rapidity, and assume a very grave appearance, in the acute peri- ostitis of childhood and adolescence. Sometimes, indeed, the general pheno- mena precede the local symptoms, as we shall see in connection with infectious periostitis. What characterizes in a general way inflammation of the periosteum, is the tumefaction of the bone, which appears as the initial phenomenon, or at least at the very beginning of the local manifestations, and, further, the superficial seat of the pain. As to its intensity, it is rela- tively less than in the more deeply seated osseous inflammations. These two characteristics are manifested often enough at the outset of the inflammation to justify the statement that the part affected is the periosteum.