878 INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS OF THE BONES. applicable to all forms of osteo-myelitis, the predominant characteristic of which is intense and stubborn pain. It is also applicable in some cases to acute osteo-myelitis with grave general symptoms, as a means of aborting the inflammation. These intense and stubborn pains are not peculiar to a single variety of osteo-myelitis. The neuralgic character accompanies the most diverse lesions of the medulla, either apyretic or febrile, and it is the result of strangulation of the inflamed medulla by the bony walls which sur- round it.” If it is necessary to go in search of the pus, in cases of intra-osseous abscess in which the diagnosis rests upon rational symptoms alone, still more is it proper to give exit to it when incision of the periosteum, permit- ting examination of the bone, reveals a spongy tissue infiltrated with pus, or when, on the other hand, the signs of retention have not yielded to the perios- teal incisions. Trephining the denuded spongy portion is the best way in such cases to put an end to the retention of pus, and to the infectious phenomena of which it is the cause. The diaphysis is sometimes found separated from its connecting cartilage, and pus accumulated between this cartilage and the layer of spongy tissue which is next to it. This is what is seen in juxta- epiphyseal osteitis which has begun exactly at the junction of the diaphysis and the cartilage. But, in spite of this separation, the opening of the puru- lent collection will not sufliceto put an end to the strangulation of the medul- lary tissue. The pus cannot flow freely, and the medullary cells must be opened through a certain extent to facilitate its escape; and if there is sepa- ration of the periosteum higher up, corresponding to already necrosed por- tions of the diaphyseal sheath, the trephine should be used at this point in order to penetrate to the central canal of the bone. When the surgeon then intervenes at the outset, be may be content with opening the periosteum freely; but he must not hesitate to go even to the medulla, if infiltration of the spongy tissue, and a gray, dull, non-vascular appearance of the compact tissue, bathed in pus, indicate necrosis of the diaphysis. In such a case pus will be found in the medullary canal, and its evacuation will be the only means of bringing to an end the phenomena of infection, and of preventing more extensive necrosis. In a word, it is neces- sary always to be guided by this idea, that the bone-tissue must be treated like the soft tissues, and to penetrate to every point where pus may be sus- pected to be shut up. One opening with the trephine will not be enough in central osteo-myelitis of the large bones of the limbs; several must be made along the bone ; and, if the arrangement of the parts permit, the bone should be perforated from side to side, so as to prevent all stagnation of the pus. These trephinings do not cause necrosis; on the contrary, they constitute the .best means of preventing or limiting it, and may obviate the necessity for total extirpation of the bone, or for amputation of the limb. Chassaignac, as I have already mentioned, extolled amputation of the limb as the only rational mode of treatment in acute suppurative osteo-myelitis. For a long time these ideas were dominant in science, and they have had too many advocates among surgeons. Amputation appeared to them, indeed, the best means to rescue the patient immediately and definitively from the pypemic infection which threatened him. And yet, formerly at least, the successes of amputation practised when the symptoms were acute, were very rare. At the beginning of my practice, when I had not the same confidence that I have to-day in trephining or in simple ablation of the diseased bone, I did a certain number of amputations of this sort, and I saw almost all of my patients perish, either from a continuation of the original infection, or from pyaemia resulting from the amputation. In these cases the patients are espe-