INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE FEMALE GENITALS. 748 ning near the urethra, hut leaves it attached above, so as to make a partial diaphragm in the form of a crescent; three sets of sutures—one in the vagina connecting the free margins of the flap, another, a deep set, extending to its hase, and Anally a superficial set—are then introduced. Episiorraphy is now rarely resorted to. In some cases perineoplasty is supplemented hy a partial episiorraphy, and then the operation is an episio-perineoplasty. Vaginismus; Reflex Cramp of the Muscles of the Pelvic Floor. The profession is indebted to the late Dr. Marion Sims for the first de- scription of an affection of women which he called vaginismus, although brief reports of individual cases of the disorder had been previously given ; Burns1 had referred to the disease, and had advised surgical treatment not very unlike a part of that subsecpiently directed by Dr. Sims. The latter’s paper describing this affection was presented to the London Obstetrical Society in 1862. He defines vaginismus as an involuntary spasmodic closure of the mouth of the vagina, attended with such supersensitiveness as to form a complete harrier to coition ; inflammation may he present, but the disorder does not depend upon it; the gentlest touch with the finger, a probe, or a feather, produces agony. It is thus seen that in vaginismus, as originally described hy Dr. Sims, the essential ideas included were pain and spasmodic contraction of the entrance to the vagina. It is a mistake, however, to regard the affection as limited to the muscular structure concerned in closing the mouth of the vagina; moreover, there may be a vaginismus which is not painful. According to Luschka, the constrictor vagime only indirectly lessens the vaginal entrance: it is a double, flat, muscle, ascending externally to the bulb of the vestibule, and its two halves uniting partly above, partly below the clitoris ; it has little importance as a constrictor, hut its action is to cause engorgement of the bulb, and to draw the two parts toward each other. The real sphincter of the vagina, according to Luschka, “ is a ring-like, flat muscle lying immediately behind the bulb, encircling the lower part of the vagina and also inclosing the urethra, so that it might be appropriately called the musculus sphincter vaginae atque urethrae.” But in addition to the contraction of these muscles in vaginismus, the •external anal sphincter, the transverse perineal, and the levator ani may also be concerned ; indeed, in one form of the disorder only the latter muscle, or even a portion of it, may be affected. According to Beigel, no constriction of the vaginal canal can he directly caused by the contraction of the levator ani, but only from its then elevating the anus. Nevertheless, Hildebrandt’s2 ex- planation of the narrowing of the superior part of the vagina by the action of this muscle, is generally accepted, and has been recently shown by Henrich- sen3 to rest upon a correct anatomical basis, and to he confirmed by clinical facts. There are thus two forms of vaginismus, the one at the vaginal orifice, and the other four or five centimetres above; the one vaginismus inferior, the other vaginismus superior. The one prevents the introduction of the penis, the ' In speaking of the vaginal sphincter, he says (Principles of Midwifery, seventh edition, p. 41. London, 1828) : “ This sphincter is sometimes spasmodically contracted, and the nerves so sensible that pain is felt in coitu, and at last some degree of permanent circular stricture is produced. The cure in all stages is division in a lateral direction of the affected parts.” Huguier, in 1834, described spasmodic contracture of the vaginal sphincter. 2 Billroth, Handbucli der Frauenkranklieiten. 3 Strictur der Sclieiden-gewdlbes, bewirkt durcli Krampf der Musculus Levator Ani (Arcliiv ftir Gynakologie, 1884).