HISTORY OF SURGERY. 1159 In the treatment of indolent ulcers and chronic fistulie, Celsus recommends the excision of the indurated borders of the former, and the laying open of the latter, by the guidance of a probe, the free excision of the callous portions along their track, and treating both with wine and other applications which were believed to promote the growth of new and healthy granulations. What more sensible course could be pursued at the present time? In the treatment of fistula in ano, he resorted to the knife in some cases, as well as in others to the ligature, which latter, as we have already seen, was used by Hippocrates. Chapter VII. of Book VII. is entirely devoted to “ diseases of the eyes, and those which are cured by manual operations.” It concludes a wide range of subjects, tumors of the lids, pterygium, adhesion of lids, inversion of eyelashes, bagging of eyelids, staphyloma, cataract, etc. As Celsus is the most ancient writer who has described the operation for cataract, I will transcribe his account of it:— Previous to the operation, the patient ought to be put on a spare diet, to drink nothing but water for three days, and the day previous to abstain from everything. After these preparations, he is to be seated in a light place, with his face towards the light in such a manner that the physician may sit opposite to him, a little more elevated ; but an assistant should stand behind the patient that he may hold his head immovable, for by a slight motion the sight may be lost forever. Besides, the eye to be operated on must be held more steady by applying wool on the other eye, and binding it on. Now, the left eye must be operated on by the right hand, and the right eye with the left hand. Then a sharp-pointed needle, perhaps not too slender, is to be directed straight through the two external tunics, at the intermediate between the pupil and the temporal canthus of the eye, opposite the centre of the cataract, care being taken to wound no vein. It should not be introduced with timidity, because it enters a void space; for a person of very moderate skill cannot but know when he has touched it, as there is no longer any resistance to the instrument. When it has reached the part, the needle is to be inclined towards the cataract itself, and gently moved up and down there (or rotated), and the operator ought to depress gradually below the region of the pupil; when it has passed the pupil it should be pressed a little more forcibly, that it may sink to the inferior part. If it remain there, the operation is completed ; if it rises again it must be more cut with the same needle, and divided into several pieces, which being in separate portions are not only more easily concealed, but obstruct vision less. After this the operator must withdraw his needle in a straight direction, and the white of eggs, spread upon wool, is laid on [the eye], and over that something to restrain inflammation, and so bound up. Then follow explicit directions for the after-treatment. This is certainly a very remarkable and an extremely delicate surgical operation to have been performed in so remote a period of antiquity. The instructions for the per- formance of the operation as given by Celsus are a model of conciseness, accuracy, and simplicity. It is impossible to contemplate the skill of the Roman surgeon of the first century of our era without emotions of astonish- ment and admiration. In following the regular order of his surgical writings we next come to Chapter IX. of Book VII., which is taken up with “the mode of repairing defects in the ears, lips, and nose.” This includes the operation for harelip: the edges having been pared, the margins are to be brought gently together, but, in cases where they cannot be coaptated, semilunar incisions are to be made beyond the parts to be joined in order to aid their approach to each other. Stitches, and not pins, were used in such plastic operations. The tenth chapter directs the treatment of nasal polypi by incision with a sharp knife, and plugging the nostrils with compresses of lint wet with a styptic liquid to arrest the hemorrhage. Chapter XII. relates to oral surgery.