LATERAL CURVATURE OF THE SPINE. 1075 freest powers of movement both in the antero-posterior and lateral directions ; in the dorsal and lumbar regions, the range of motion from before backwards is about equal; but in the latter region lateral movement is more limited than in the former. The variation in the amount of movement of which the separate regions of the spine are capable, depends upon differences in the shape and direction of the articular processes, and upon the thickness of the inter- vertebral disks. The free movements of the cervical vertebrae are gained by the articular processes being so shaped as to permit of a good deal of motion between the bones, apart from that given by the soft intervertebral disks; in the dorsal region, the movement is derived about equally from the inter- vertebral disks and from the play between the surfaces of the joints on the articular processes; in the lumbar region, the intervertebral disks afford the greatest freedom of movement, the lateral motion being entirely gained from these structures. The property of elasticity possessed by the spine lies wholly within the intervertebral bodies ; the structures, on being compressed, have the power of self-expansion, a power that the tissue of which they are composed is not capable of exercising immediately, but which it requires some little time to exert, so as to restore the disks to their full size; the longer the compressing force is applied to these bodies, the slower will be their return to their proper thickness. The loss of length which occurs in the spine of an adult who has been for some hours in the erect position, is due to compression of the intervertebral bodies, the loss amounting to about one inch; after some few hours in the recumbent position this loss is regained by the gradual expansion of the fibrous tissue, so that as the total thickness of all the intervertebral bodies is rather less than four inches, the elasticity of these structures is able to overcome the effect of a pressure which reduces them more than one-fourth of their proper size. The nature of the anatomical changes which occur in lateral curvature of the spine has already been fully described, but attention may again be called to the fact that in the early stages of the deformity the structural defects in the column are limited to the intervertebral disks and ligaments, and that the bones are not altered in shape until the curvature is in an advanced con- dition. The clinical characteristics of lateral curvature may be summarized as follows:ѥ (1) It commences at one of two periods of life, early childhood or early adolescence. (2) It affects girls much more frequently than boys. (3) It is not of traumatic origin, nor is its onset accompanied by any local symptoms which indicate the presence of active morbid changes in the structures of the vertebral column. (4) It may be associated with debility and with muscular weakness, but it not unfre- quently occurs in subjects who are robust and strong. (5) It is often combined with defective menstruation when commencing at the age of puberty. (6) It prevails in certain families, and is often hereditary. Iu reviewing the various theories which ascribe the development of lateral curvature to the influence of external agents, such as muscular action, an attempt has been made to point out in what respects these theories fail to satisfactorily account for the origin of the deformity ; so also objection has been made to the explanation which refers to absorption of the articular pro- cesses the formation of confirmed curvature. In attempting to solve the important problem of the etiology ot lateral curvature, attention must be especially directed to the fact that mere constant bending of the spine to one side will not induce a condition of structural change ; so that there must exist,