802 OVARIAN AND UTERINE TUMORS. rian.1 What was true then should not necessarily be true to-day ; but the correctness of Sir Spencer Wells’s declaration that, even after explorative incision, only a darker and more vascular look of the surface is indicative of a libro-cyst, has never yet been disputed. (2) Fibroma, or uterine fibroid, can only be mistaken for a cystoma when much ascites complicates the case, or when the abdominal walls are unusually thick. Ordinarily the sub peritoneal fibroma (which alone need concern us) is lobular or of irregular outline, of stony hardness, often multiple, so that dis- tinct lumpy masses can be felt in the lower abdomen, and inseparable from the uterus which moves with it. The growth is slow in formation, never causes progressive emaciation or affects the general health except by its pressure or the metrorrhagia which it may excite, and is rarely painful or tender. Uterine exploration shows the cavity to be deeper than usual, sometimes tortuous or deflected, and the womb to be pushed down or to one side. The lower pelvis is often filled by the lobular masses of the tumor, and the rec- tum or bladder is much compressed. Usually the growth is sessile, a volu- minous outgrowth from the sides or fundus of the womb ; but in rare cases it is pedunculated. Some years ago Dr. Hunter, my colleague at the Hew York State Woman’s Hospital, removed a large uterine fibroid under the supposition that it was ovarian. It was freely movable, and was attached to the uterus only by a long and slender pedicle which was easily ligated. (8) Sarcoma of the womb is rarely as distinct an outgrowth as fibroma. Generally developing in the uterine cavity, it causes distention only by symmetrical enlargement of the womb. In the exceptional cases where out- growths occur into the pelvic or abdominal cavity, these can only be infe- rent.ially distinguished from fibromata by their greater softness and the cachectic condition of the patient. In the former case the uterine sound, in the latter the absence of fluctuation and the peculiar impairment of health characteristic of malignant disease (and without much emaciation), will guide us in the diagnosis. (4) Carcinoma of the uterine body is often indistinguishable from sarcoma, except in the more rapid course which it runs. With cancer of the cervix we are not concerned ; and whether it affect the neck or the cavity of the womb, it is as Dr. Henry Bennet long since pointed out, only after ulcera- tion begins, that the patient applies for advice. Then hemorrhage, and foul watery, or ichorous, discharges from the vagina, indicate too clearly the nature of the disease; and, as has well been said, make the diagnosis as obvious as before it was unsuspected. Only when it involves the fundus or the upper uterine walls, then, is cancer likely to be mistaken for a cystoma. Here proliferating masses are often thrown out in the pelvis, contiguous organs are soon involved, and attachments rapidly form with the intestines, peritoneum, and omentum, until the entire contents of the lower abdomen become amalgamated into a tumor-like mass with irregular outline and much accompanying ascites. With care, however, an accurate diagnosis can usually be made. The hard, nodulated, and irregular surface, the absence of fluctua- tion in the tumor while obscure fluctuation is often obtained around it, the greater degree of pain and aching in the growth, and, above all, its rapidity of development and the corresponding impairment of the patient’s health, with fixation of the uterus, or its restricted mobility with the abdominal mass, are all indicative of this type of malignant disease. Cystic disease of other organs sometimes proves a source of great embarrass- ment to the diagnostician, and requires brief consideration. Thus renal, splenic, and hepatic cysts, cysts of the broad ligament and of the omentum, 1 New York Med. Journal, Nov. 1871.