GASTRO-ELYTROTOMY OR LAPARO-ELYTROTOMY. 779' displacement of parts usually exist. The operator is obliged to rely much upon his eye and touch, and should be able to use them understandingly. The time required for the operation will vary with the case. The delivery has been accomplished in ten minutes, but it may take the greater part of an hour, particularly if the os uteri be found less dilated than had been expected. In some cases of pelvic deformity, labor will continue for even a day or two without the os being dilated, and the use of Barnes’s dilators will have to be resorted to; but in some cases of extreme pelvic collapse even their aid will be inadmissible. If the os lias to be dilated digitally after the incision has been made, the time of delivery may be much prolonged. In estimating the applicability of this operation in obstetric practice, wre must bear in mind that in a large proportion of the cases in which the Caesarean operation has been performed, delivery through the cervix has been impossible. This is par- ticularly true of the operations under the old method in the United States. Speculations upon the possibility of operating a second time have been made,, and doubts have been expressed as to the feasibility of a left-side operation;, but as the latter has been already twice performed upon the living subject without encountering any difficulty, the bladder in neither case having been injured, the question of two operations need no longer be considered. Cases may, indeed, be met with in which an operation on the left side will be greatly preferable, as, for example, where the right liip-joint is anchylosed, the thigh much tiexed, and the corresponding ilium flattened and dwarfed; or in a case of scoliosis, with the larger part of the superior strait to the left. For convenience in operating, the left-side incision has been highly recom- mended by Dr. Taylor, of Cincinnati. Statistical Record.—Laparo-elytrotomy, after the improved method of Prof. Thomas, has been performed 12 times, 10 of the operations having been in the United States, and nine of these in ISTew York (3) and Brooklyn (6). Prof. Thomas has operated on 2 women; Prof. Skene, of Brooklyn, on 4; Prof. Charles Jewett, of Brooklyn, on 2; and Dr. Thomas W. Ilime, of Sheffield, Eng., Dr. Arthur W. Edis, of London, Dr. Walter R. Gillette, of Yew York, and Drs. Dandridge and Taylor, of Cincinnati, each on one. Six of the women recovered, and seven of the children were saved. In the six fatal cases, one patient was moribund when operated on, and died in an hour; a second had been forty-eight hours in labor and craniotomy had been attempted, her pulse was feeble and over 130, and she died of shock in seven hours; a third (Dr. Hime’s) had cancer of the recto-vaginal septum, was a victim of intemperance, and had been bedridden for eleven weeks—she died delirious and violent in two hours; a fourth (Dr. Edis’s) was in bad health,, and had oedema of the lower extremities—she died in forty hours; a fifth had been four days in labor, and also died in forty hours; and the sixth had been in labor a week, and died of septicaemia in seventy hours. The children of these six women were all lost except in the two English cases.. The six women that recovered had been in labor, respectively, 8 hours, 11 hours, 16 hours, 22 hours, 4 days, and a week, and all of their children were saved but that of the last, which had been destrpyed by craniotomy and was putrid. The bladder was slightly lacerated in five women, and in a sixth it was opened accidentally with the scissors. Dr. Skene saved three women and their children by his four operations. Of the 12 operations, 3 may be regarded as having been hopeless, and of the 9 others, 5 were quite unfavor- able; notwithstanding which, the nine operations saved six women and five children. This last I regard as a fair estimate of the statistical value of the operation per se. In comparing its results with the very unfavorable ones- of the old Caesarean operation in Yew York and Brooklyn, we must