INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE (ESOPHAGUS. 28 This hint might be utilized in suitable eases by allowing the patient to swallow some easily distensible substance (sponge, leather, or other suitable material) secured to a string, so that it might be promptly and safely with- drawn. Proper care would be required to avoid risk of rupturing the ■oesophageal wall in thus doing. If the stricture be impassable by bougie or inaccessible to cesophagotomy, gastrostomy may be practised. Internal •cesopbagotomy and digital divulsion are sometimes practised through the wound of gastrotomv. Cauterization and electrolysis are claimed as legiti- mate procedures, but both are risky—the former as likely to increase the stricture, and the latter as liable to excite fatal syncope by irritating the pneumogastric nerve. Coarctation-Stricture, (jExtraneous Stenosis.)—This form of stricture is due to compression outside the oesophagus, forcing one wall close to the other, or into actual contact. It may be due to abscess, enlarged bronchial glands, enlarged thyroid, morbid growth, aneurism, or pericardial effusion. It is to be carefully discriminated from intrinsic stricture. The diagnosis is made by exclusion, and by the recognition of cervical or thoracic disease outside of the gullet. The characteristic symptoms are dysphagia and pain. The prognosis, dependent upon the curability of the primary disease, is on the whole unfavorable. The treatment consists in management on general principles, and in careful attempts at dilatation and catheterization for the better supply of nourishment. Cure, or even amelioration of the causal affection, will relieve the constriction. In all cases, however treated or of whatever origin, the importance of keeping up nutrition by rectal alimentation even before this procedure is imperatively necessitated, cannot be too strongly insisted upon. Spasm and Paralysis of the (Esophagus. Spasm of the (Esophagus, or (Esopiiagismus.—This is a neurosis which may exist alone or in association with plmryngismus. It may affect any portion of the tube. The inability to swallow, or rather to complete the process of deglutition, may be transient, or persistent during consecutive series of hours. It is usually manifested irregularly, often suddenly, but maybe definitely intermittent, or may even precede every effort at deglutition. In some sub- jects it occurs only on attempts to swallow certain sorts of food, hot or cold, soft or hard. It is often associated with regurgitation of air or of flatus, and with the globus hystericus. It may be painless or painful. When severe, there may be spasm of the glottis, cardiac disturbance, and syncope. Etiology.—(Esophagismus occurs in diseases of the oesophagus, but it is usually a reflex neurosis excited by disease of the viscera, genital organs, or nerve-centres, as in hydrophobia. It occurs at all ages, and principally in females, especially hysterical and nervous ones. Symptoms.—The symptoms are sudden dysphagia, giving way as suddenly as it begins, either at once, or after a prolonged interval which may comprise several hours; and regurgitation, immediate or nearly so when the spasm is located high up, delayed for hours or even for days when the spasm is low down. Diagnosis.—The suddenness and intermittence of the paroxysms will suggest the diagnosis, and successful catheterization of the oesophagus will confirm it. The tube or bougie is usually arrested at the seat of spasm, hut after a few moments’ or a minute’s rest will glide readily onward on the occurrence of relaxation. The differentiation of nervous spasm from spasm of organic origin, rests in the main on the conservation of good nutrition.