LATERAL CURVATURE OF THE SPINE. 1067 The abdominal viscera, when the curvature is severe in the lower dorsal and lumbar parts of the spine, are much affected by the limited space in which they are inclosed. The walls of the abdomen, being flaccid, can to some extent accommodate themselves to the shortening of the spinal column in this region ; the front of the abdomen becomes protuberant, but the sides are compressed by the descending ribs, especially on the convex side of the lower curve. The chief trouble that results is from compression of the liver and stomach, giving rise to sickness, constipation, and other symptoms of disordered digestion. This mechanical derangement of the abdominal and thoracic cavities renders severe lateral curvature a most formidable complaint. The amount of relative distortion of the chest and abdomen will depend upon the nature of the curves; the severest condition of thoracic contraction occurs when the dorsal curve commences high up in the column and extends through the whole of the dorsal region; the abdomen will be most com- pressed when the lower curve commences in the middle of the dorsal region and extends to the last lumbar vertebra. The former condition, of severe deformity of the thorax, is the graver complication of the two: exercise becomes almost impossible ; shortness of breath, palpitation of the heart, and giddiness, all arise at the slightest attempt at exertion, and often the patient is unable to lie in the recumbent position; haemoptysis may terminate an ex- istence which is scarcely endurable. Diagnosis of Lateral Curvature.—The diagnosis of lateral curvature, owing to the characteristic nature of the deformity, would appear to be an easy matter; such certainly is the case if the surgeon clearly appreciates the fact that lateral curvature, much as it varies with respect to the situation and length of the curves formed, is always to be distinguished by the struc- tural changes which occur at the seat of deformity. Unfortunately this im- portant point is too often lost sight of, and other conditions of the spine, in which deviation of the column to one or other side is present, are confounded with true lateral curvature. To avoid this error, it should be remembered that the constant feature of true lateral distortion is greater displacement of the anterior portion of the column than of the posterior—the rotation of the vertebrae which has been so frequently alluded to. With this fact before us, an error of diagnosis is scarcely possible, except perhaps in the early stage of the affection; but before endeavoring to decide in what manner the com- mencement of curvature is to be detected, the spurious conditions of lateral curvature must be reviewed. A state of lateral deviation of the spine that is very generally mistaken for lateral curvature, is met with in growing girls who live in a condition unfavorable for the healthy development of their bodies ; the maid-of-all-work of the small tradesman, the drudge of the cheap lodging-house, school-girls economically received at “establishments”-—all such as are overworked and miserably fed—are very commonly found to present lateral deviation of the spine when examined in the upright position. JNor is this condition peculiar to the class above quoted ; the weakening effect of acute illness, disordered digestion with imperfect assimilation of food, and all those states of defective health which are so conveniently described as “general debility,” may give rise to a weakened condition of the spine in young girls of any class of life, and produce the same result. This condition is at once distinguishable from true lateral curvature, for no structural change of the spine is developed; if the subject, when under examination in the erect position, is directed to stoop forwards without bending the knees, the spine will at once lose its lateral deflection, and the same occurs when the horizontal position is assumed. There is then, in such cases, merely lateral deviation of the spine from want