STRUCTURE OF STONES AND NATURE OF NUCLEI. 159 of ammonium, triple phosphate, amorphous phosphate of lime, fusible calcu- lus, urostealith. Structure of Stones and Nature of Nuclei. All true calculi are composed of a nucleus, single or multiple, and layers more or less concentric of the same or another material arranged around it. This is the case for large as well as for microscopic calculi, those requir- ing a magnifying power of 250 diameters (Beale)1—Hoffman says 2002—to make out their lamination. This fact of lamination alone differentiates calculus from gravel, the latter being crystalline dust or concretions of crystals more or less large, but not possessed of definite structural arrangement. The nucleus of a stone may consist of whatever, among the organized, crys- talline, or earthy constituents of normal or pathological urine, is capable of concreting into a more or less solid mass; or it may be a foreign substance coming from within the body, or introduced from without. Among the familiar examples of nuclei are separate rhomb-crystals of uric acid and clusters of them; spheres of uric acid; dumb-bells of oxalate of lime, urates, etc.; a lump of inspissated pus, mucus, or blood, perhaps drying out and leaving a central cavity in its place; lumps of tissue-debris (casts, epithelium, fibrin); eggs of entozoa; portions of bone, teeth, or hair, which have escaped from a neighboring dermoid cyst by ulceration into the bladder; bullets, shreds of clothing, and other foreign matter shot into the bladder; portions of bone from fractures of the pelvis; foreign material from the rectum entering the bladder through fistulous communications; portions of catheters, etc.; and, finally, foreign bodies in endless variety which have been intro- duced through the urethra, usually under the impulse of depraved erotic fancies. Ultzmann’s celebrated collection of 545 single vesical calculi gathered from various quarters, for the purpose of examining the nuclei, yielded 441, nearly 81 per cent., in which the nuclei were composed of uric acid, while from a further study of multiple calculi and those passed spontaneously he concluded that among primary stones the nucleus was composed of uric acid in 94 per cent.3 Hoffman and Ultzmann declare, in their work on the analysis of urine,4 that 90 per cent, of urinary calculi have uric-acid nuclei. Ord5 states that two-tliirds of all calculi (this estimate includes secondary stones) “are in bulk composed of, or start from, concretions of uric acid.” From the specimens in the museum in Guy’s Hospital, Golding-Bird finds the percentage of nuclei of uric acid and urates to be less than 50. In con- sidering the question of nuclei entirely apart from the nuclei of large stones, it must be remembered that a great number of acid nuclei are voided by the urethra; the patients passing them do not enter hospital, and their minute calculi do not find their way into museums. Roberts estimates that uric acid forms five-sixths of all primary calculi. Klein found that alternating calculi were most common in Russia, the nucleus being for the most part uric acid or urates, quite often covered with a layer of oxalate of lime. Beale states that two-thirds of all calculi in the different British museums are composed of uric acid,6 that dumb-bell crystals of oxa- late of lime are frequently found as the nucleus of uric-acid calculus, and 1 Kidney Diseases, Urinary Deposits, etc., 3d ed., p. 405. 1869. 2 Hoffman und Ultzmann, Anleitung zur Untersuclmng Harnes, Zweite Aufl. S. 109. 1878. 3 Op. cit., p. 149. 4 American translation, p. 264. 1879. 5 Op. cit., p. 60. 6 Kidney Diseases, Urinary Deposits, and Calculous Disorders, 3d ed., p. 409. London, 1869.