LITHOTRITY. 312 Preliminaries to Lithotrity.—Surgical writers, generally, have recom- mended (1) that the irritable bladder should be depiived of its irritability by emollient injections before the operation ; (2) that the urethra should be habituated to the passage and presence of metallic instruments before using the 1 ithotrite; (3) that the bladder should he partially filled with tepid water or other fluid; and (4) that, when the bladder cannot retain urine for two or more hours, recourse should not be had to this procedure. (1) In the first place, the readiest way to diminish the irritability of the bladder is to remove therefrom the calculus which has given rise to it. Emollient injections are useless, and are sometimes a source of mischief. (2) If the urethra can be accustomed to, and become tolerant of, the sound or metallic bougie, it can as readily become accustomed to and tolerant of the lithotrite at the time of the operation. But it must he borne in mind that there are, on the part of the urethra, periods of tolerance and times of intoler- ance of the presence of instruments, independent altogether of the duration of their employment. At one time the urethra will hear the presence of an instrument, and at another it will not, and this without regard to the size of the instrument. It is difficult to account for this varying tolerance of instru- ments. It is a fact, however, known to all surgeons, and alluded to by many. Gouley says: “The instrument may have been passed at regular intervals for weeks or months without any very great amount of pain, and without giving rise to any discomfort; or it may have been followed on one or two occasions by a mild attack of fever; but finally the same careful catheteriza- tion is practised—but on the wrong day perhaps, when the patient’s functions are temporarily disordered—and in a few hours he is suddenly and unexpect- edly seized with a severe rigor from the effects of which he may never rally.” A surgeon of distinction in this city had completed very successfully the operation of lithotrity, and the patient, relieved of his sufferings, had left the hospital and had returned to his home in the country. Some months afterwards the surgeon, being near the residence of his patient, called to see him and suggested an exploration of the blad- der. A metallic sound was carefully introduced, but ere it had reached the bladder the patient was dead. On August 20, 1881, A. B., aged 13 years, was admitted to the Hotel-Dieu suffering from symptoms of calculus. Chloroform was used, and a metallic No. 6 sound was introduced; the bladder was explored, but no stone could be detected. No inconvenience whatever resulted from the examination, and the little fellow continued to run about the ward as if nothing unusual had occurred. Three days afterwards he was subjected to an examination of about the same duration. No difficulty was experienced in entering the bladder, no difficulty was experienced in the easy movement of the sound when within it, and no hemorrhage followed. Later in the day I was summoned to the patient’s bedside, and found his condition to be alarming. He had had a rigor which liad lasted a couple of hours ; he had now a pale and anxious countenance, and a weak, thread-like pulse (140), and cold extremities. From this condition he did not rally, and he died in the afternoon of the following day, twenty-eight hours after the second exploration. The anaesthetic (chloroform) and instruments (No. 6 long, curved, silver sound, and Sir H. Thompson’s explorer) were the same in both in- stances, and employed by the same persons ; and the duration of the examination on both occasions (about six minutes) was about the same, and on both occasions in pre- sence of the same class, in the same surgical theatre. The body was so quickly claimed by the relatives that no post-mortem examination was obtainable. (3) The suggestion to fill the bladder with tepid water, or at least to intro- duce eight or ten ounces, is made under the impression that the movements of the instrument will thus be freer, and that the detection and seizure of the stone Avill be easier. But this impression arises from a misconception of the true state of the bladder. That viscus is but sparingly supplied with mus-