( 1120 ) PREPARATION OF MILITARY SURGEONS FOR FIELD DUTIES; APPARATUS REQUIRED; AMBULANCES; DUTIES IN THE FIELD. BENNETT A. CLEMENTS, M.D., BREVET LIEUTENANT-COLONEL AND SURGEON, U. S. ARMY. In 1861, the United States of America suddenly entered upon a great war, almost wholly unprepared by experience or training for the novel and respon- sible duties that it entailed. During its progress, millions of money and many hundreds of lives were sacrificed to ignorance and inexperience. Before it was concluded, there had been developed a system of administration and a completeness of knowledge in the art of military administration that left but little to be desired. Twenty years have since passed, and the men who learned practically the great lessons of that war are themselves passing away, and the duties which they performed will in the future devolve on a new generation, for “Per- petual Peace is a Dream,” and, however much we may cherish the hope that our country may in the future escape the calamities of war, “ no man,” as General Sherman has said, “ is wise enough to foretell when soldiers may be in demand again.” All experience teaches nations to be prepared for war, and never was the inculcation of this lesson more necessary than at present. The changes made of late years and now in progress in the art of war make prior preparation indispensable. We have in very recent years seen an army of a million of men brought from their barracks and homes, and concentrated on a distant theatre of war, in the short period of two weeks; and one of the mightiest of modern European wars was begun and ended in the brief space of six weeks. Whilst the conditions of European warfare may not exist in full degree in our own country, yet the modern and increasing facilities for rapid trans- portation would render the concentration of large bodies of troops on our northern frontier in a short time entirely feasible. Nor is it useless to regal'd as possible the occurrence of riots or insurrection in our larger cities, which would equally demand prior preparation of troops for their speedy and effi- cient suppression. It will therefore be apparent that every administrative branch of our armies should be provided beforehand with at least the knowl- edge of the means and methods of conducting its operations ; and especially is this necessary in the medical department, where the great mass of surgeons must be taken from civil life, and without experience in their new duties. It will be the purpose of this article to present to the inexperienced medical officer such instructions, and to supply such practical information, as will serve to guide him at the outset of his career, and enable him to avoid the