TUMORS OF THE BONES. 996 Diagnosis.—Fibroma of the bones is rare. Its slow course and hard consist- ence may make its presence probable, but not certain. Chondroma has nodes and bosses; it is often situated on the fingers, does not infect the lymphatic glands or the viscera, and has a slow and benign course. Cysts may be re- cognized by exploratory puncture. Carcinoma develops very rapidly, but a diagnosis cannot always be made, unless one can find on the patient other tumors of the same nature. Osteo-sarcoma may be diagnosticated by taking into account the course of the affection, its manner of development, and the characteristics of the tumor. A valuable sign, when it can be perceived with the fingers, is the bony crepitation of which I have already spoken. Treatment.—The only rational treatment is ablation, whenever it is possible. But it is necessary to remove absolutely all of the new growth. Every sar- coma has a local and benign stage, says Schwartz. It is advisable therefore to operate as soon as possible. If thei’e are enlarged lymphatic 'glands, they should be removed; if their removal is not possible, one may hesitate to inter- fere, since the operation will necessarily be an imperfect one. Generalization, whether visceral or osseous, contra-indicates operation. One may, however, be induced to interfere if the principal tumor be easy to operate upon, or if it be the seat of grave symptoms, whilst the secondary tumors do not im- mediately threaten life. In a child six years old, afflicted with an enormous ulcerated sarcoma of the right femur, a painful tumor and the seat of repeated uncontrollable hemorrhages, I did not hesitate, in spite of large lymphatic glands in the groin, to practise amputation in the middle of the thigh. By means of the antiseptic method I secured complete union by the first inten- tion. Three weeks afterward, the child could not be recognized ; his general condition had become excellent; he laughed, and played upon his bed. He died five months afterwards, carried off by visceral generalization. Is it per- missible to amputate in the continuity of the affected bone ? This question can be answered in the affirmative in cases in which there are well-circum- scribed, benign tumors, and sometimes also when the tumor is situated in the femur, since disarticulation at the hip-joint is too grave an operation for one not to hesitate to practise it at the outset. Nevertheless, in the majority of cases recourse should be had to remote disarticulation. Resection is appli- cable to benign tumors alone. Ligation of the! large arterial trunks has seemed to succeed two or three times.; but it ought not to inspire any con- fidence. Osteoid Tumors. The name of osteoid tumors is applied by authors to tumors of very diverse nature; and this confusion of terms is the cause of much obscurity. (Heydenreich.) Muller, in 1843, was the first to study them, and he con- sidered them as malignant. Lebert, in 1845, classed them with homologous tumors, and looked upon them as benign. Stanley insisted on their malig- nancy. Virchow, studying the development of the bones, found in the bones of rachitic children a tissue which he called osteoid, and which he errone- ously considered to be bone-tissue in the process of physiological formation, but which is peculiar to rachitic bones. Osteoid tumors will, in these pages, be regarded as neoplasms formed of the osteoid tissue of Virchow. The following are the terms in which Cornil and Ranvier describe these growths: “An osteoid tumor is made up of trabeculae of different form and dimensions, composed of a homogeneous or obscurely fibrillated refractive substance, often infiltrated with calcareous granules, containing angular cor- puscles. The trabeculae are separated by fibrous tissue in which the ves- sels run.” “ There are almost always scattered through them islets of carti-