INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE FEMALE GENITALS. 752 tincture of aconite root; in some cases, probably, the use of muriate of cocaine would be successful. Seeligmiiller speaks very highly of electric treatment; he makes use of Faradization, the metal electrode being applied to the cervical portion, and the sponge electrode to the vicinity of the coccyx. The surgical treatment includes two methods: one is the division of the fibrous attachments of muscles and tendons to the coccyx; the other is the extirpation of a part, or the whole, of the bone. The former, though priority is usually attributed to the late Sir James Y. Simpson, was first done, accord- ing to Seeligmiiller, by Peter Krukenberg, in Halle. As to the method of operating, Simpson directed that a tenotomy knife should be introduced under the skin, at a short distance from the coccyx, passed along the posterior aspect of the bone, and then turned so as to divide the muscular and tendinous attach- ments, first on one side, then on the other, and finally all around the tip of the bone. This operation has not proved invariably successful. (Gosselin, Yela- ton, Thomas.) Extirpation of the whole, or of part, of the coccyx, for this affection, was first done by Yott. His method was, after introducing the left index finger into the rectum so as to press the coccyx firmly outward, to make an incision with a short, strong scalpel in the median line down to the bone, extending a little below the tip and above the articulation. The attachments of the bone were divided on each side, then the knife was passed through the articu- lation so as to completely separate the bones, the left hand was disengaged, the upper end of the detached bone was seized with Fergusson’s lion-jawed forceps and pulled firmly outward, while the knife was used to complete the separation. Usually the hemorrhage is not great after extirpation of the coccyx. Lamb, however, reports two cases in which there was such considerable arte- rial bleeding that a tampon of tarred jute was pushed into the cavity.1 Sterility. If a woman in the reproductive period of life has no living or viable children, notwithstanding frequent cohabitation, normal spermatozoids being discharged into the vagina, she is sterile. As in the great majority of cases the first child is born within eighteen months after the beginning of married life, a wife who remains two years childless is called sterile; but this is only relative sterility, for she may reproduce subsequently to the first two years. If a woman in the conditions first stated, has no child, the sterility is called congenital; but it-is acquired if, after having borne one or more children, she remains childless for three years. Congenital is nearly twice as frequent as acquired sterility. According to Matthews Duncan, one marriage in ten in Great Britain is sterile. S. W. Gross’s statistics, though including too small a number of cases to be conclusive, show that in one out of six sterile marriages the hus- band is at fault, while L. de Sinety makes the proportion one in four. Reproduction is a much more complex and protracted process, and there- fore much more liable to be disordered, in the female than in the male. The function of the latter ends with the discharge into the vagina of normal sper- matozoids, while the former must not only have the potentia coeundi, but also 1 See New Orleans Medical Journal, 1844; American Journal of Obstetrics, vol. i. ; Simpson (Medical Times and Gazette, 1859, 1860) ; Seeligmiiller (Real-Encyklopadie der gesammten Heil- kunde, Band iii.) ; Worms (Dictionnaire Encyclopedique d-es Sciences Medicales, premiere serie, tome xviii.) ; Lamb (Centralblatt fur Gynakologie, 1882).