914 SCROFULO-TUBERCULOUS AND OTHER STRUCTURAL DISEASES OF BONES. to a new formation of bone, but to a simple accumulation of calcareous salts in the areolie of the spongy tissue and in the canals of Havers,, According to Lannelongue, the hypertrophy of the sequestra is apparent only; they lose their compactness by remaining in pus or in the liquids of the cavities which contain them. (3) Disseminated Tuberculosis.—In some cases there has been observed a sort of general granulation of the skeleton. In all the bones there are seen, in the midst of the marrow of the spongy tissue or of the medullary canal, tuberculous granulations in variable numbers. Isolated tuberculous granula- tions are, according to M. Rauvier, quite frequent in the skeleton of the phthisical. Examining the bones of persons who had died of phthisis with- out any apparent evidence of tubercle of the bones, Rauvier found, six times out of twenty, granulations in the adult. I am convinced that a simliar investigation in children would be even oftener rewarded with success. It is probable that, among the many cases of juxta-epiphyseal osteitis following grave pyrexias, a certain number are of tuberculous origin—are cases of osseous granuloma. Here is an open field for investigation. M. Parrot has published a case of miliary tuberculosis. Inoculability and Parasitic Nature of Tuberculous Osteopathies.—After hav- ing shown the presence of the different histological forms of tuberculosis in the osteopathies called tuberculous, it remains, in order to complete this chapter on pathological anatomy, to prove that they are also inoculable and parasitic. The inoculability of the products of bone-tuberculosis is demon- strated by the experiments of Schuller, Volkmann, Ilueter, Konig, and others. M. Ollier, in 1873, caused the successful inoculation, in the laboratory of M. Chauveau,1 of fungous material from the joints. But I ought to mention particularly the experiments of MM. Kiener and Poulet, which have been published, to the number of ten, by M. Charles Nelaton.2 In all cases of inoculation of the products of tuberculous bone-lesions, generalization has taken place, and the histological manifestations of tuberculosis have been reproduced in the infected animal. The presence of a parasite in these osteopathies is no longer a matter of doubt. MM. Schuchardt and Fedor Krause3 looked for it for a month in all the cases which came into the clinique of Prof. Volkmann. “ The presence of the tubercle-bacillus,” they say, “has been established in forty cases of tuberculosis of the bones, joints, etc. We have determined with certainty tnat in all cases of surgical tuberculosis it is as easy to discover the bacillus tuberculosis with the microscope, as in the sputa of the tuberculous or in the nodules of acute miliary tuberculosis.” There were not usually a large number of bacilli discovered, because in none of the cases examined was the lesion found in the stage of onset, the time at which the bacilli are probably most numerous and easiest to recognize. Here is a whole world to explore. (See general remarks upon tuberculosis, p. 901 et seq.) II. Osteopathies which are Probably Tuberculous.—I wish to speak here especially of caries and of spina ventosa. (1) Caries.—M. Ollier in his authoritative article has thus defined caries:4 a chronic, suppurative inflammation of the bone-tissue, with a slow course, and usually progressive, without any distinct tendency to recovery, developed under the influence of an internal cause, characterized by retrograde processes which accompany the inflammatory processes, induce suppuration, and bring 1 Roux, Arthrite tuberculeuse. (These.) Paris, 1875. 2 Le tubercle dans les affections chirurgicales. (These d’agregation.) Paris, 1883. 3 Fortschritte der Medicin, von K. Friedlander, Bd. i., No. 9„ 4 Dictionnaire Encyclopedique, etc.