INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE FEMALE GENITALS. 722 1 Emmet. suit eacli individual case. It should not touch the fundus of the bladder, yet it ought to be of sufficient length to be properly balanced in the urethra, and to lie close up behind the pubis. If the fundus of the bladder rests on the point of the catheter, as it often does when the instrument is not properly Fig. 1410. Sigmoid catheter. curved, it will have a tendency to turn to one side.” . . . “It must be withdrawn, and the necessary change made in its shape until the proper curve has been gained. A want of attention to this point will lead to much irritation of the bladder, and will cause a failure of the operation. Perfora- tion of the bladder, and even death, may result from neglect of this, as I have known to happen in one instance.” “ The catheter is generally made five inches long before being bent to the proper curve; a greater length, how- ever, is necessary if the patient is unusually fat. As a receptacle for the urine, a large-sized oval cup, such as is found in bird cages, may be used, or one of any other convenient shape, with a bottom too broad to turn over.” Or instead of the receptacle for urine being in the bed, a piece of flexible rubber-tubing may be attached to the external end of the catheter, and thus the urine may be conveyed into a vessel by the side of the bed. The patient should be carefully watched, since any cessation of the urinary discharge requires the immediate withdrawal of the catheter, and its thorough cleans- ing from all obstruction; meantime another catheter takes its place. The catheter in all cases requires frequent cleansing during each twenty-four hours. The patient should lie upon her back most of the time ; the bowels are to be kept confined by the daily use of opium; liberal diet is to be directed. The sutures may be removed in from eight to ten days, and then the bowels are moved. “ The catheter1 may be continued in use for a few days longer, according to circumstances, and after from the fourteenth to the twentieth day the patient may sit up.” In rare instances the bladder is intolerant of the permanent catheter; in these, therefore, the urine should be drawn off at regular intervals, usually once in three or four hours. Some operators have dispensed with the catheter altogether, allowing the patients to spontaneously empty the blad- der (Simon and Meadows); but the practice would probably succeed only in cases where the fistula was small, and it has rarely been followed. Cystitis may occur within a few days after the operation. The ropy dis- charge then often clogs the catheter, and the patient suffers from more or less vesical tenesmus; if this be great, the probability is that a part at least of the newly united surfaces will^give way. The use of opiates and diluent drinks, washing out the bladder with warm water containing a little salt or potassic chlorate, and scrupulous care that the catheter shall be kept entirely pervious, chiefly constitute the treatment of this condition. Hemorrhage "during the operation can generally be controlled by hot-water vaginal injections, or by the use of ice. Secondary hemorrhage is occasion-