313 PRELIMINARIES TO LITIIOTRITY. <cular tissue, and it is not contracted upon its contents, as is the uterus. The walls of the bladder lie in easy apposition, and the lithotrite can move about as readily in an empty bladder as in a full one. This experiment may be easily performed on the dead subject. Indeed, of the two, I prefer the empty or nearly empty bladder to a full one. I do not request the patient to void his urine, but I do notask him to retain it too long. It is a matter of indifference. (4) It follows as a corollary, from what has been said, that the circum- stance that the bladder cannot retain urine for some hours is not a reason for rejecting lithotrity for lithotomy. It often happens that the subjects of stone cannot retain their urine for more than a few minutes, and some, not for a moment:— In 1872, Mr. W. S. came to me from Quebec, for the removal of stone. For seve- ral years lie had been unable to retain his urine. Incontinence was complete. A caoutchouc bag was attached to the penis, and a tube led from it to a larger one which he carried in the leg of his boot. The parts were so excoriated and his sufferings so great that I advised him to submit to the knife. To this he would not consent, and, contrary to my judgment, I was constrained to use the lithotrite. At the first sitting I crushed two large-sized uric-acid calculi, and repeated the operation three days afterwards. After the first operation, and before any of the debris had passed away, the patient could retain his urine two hours; after the second sitting he retained his urine a much longer period ; and after the third and last sitting, he was able to retain his urine as long as ever in his life, and, as far as I know, his condition has continued comfortable ever since. Injections.—There was, in the early years of lithotrity, remarkable unanim- ity of opinion in favor of drawing off the urine and injecting into the bladder a certain quantity of warm water, as a preliminary to the use of the litho- trite. There was also remarkable unanimity of opinion as to the quantity and not less than four ounces, and usually not more than six ounces, was regarded as the cycloid within which it was deemed safe and wise to oscillate. It was also considered necessary to know what quantity of water the blad- der would tolerate within it, and, this quantity being a known quantity, the bladder’s capacity, ascertained in this way, became its known capacity. It was also imagined and taught that, tepid water being less irritating than urine, the bladder would be tolerant of the presence of a greater amount of the former than of the latter fluid. But urine is proper to the viscus which contains it, and is less irritating to its coats than any foreign fluid, however bland, just as the secretion of the lachrymal gland, more irritating than water is more grateful to the eye which it bathes; moreover, as Pollock says, •“other things being equal, there is no benefit in tepid water over urine as a medium in which to crush a calculus.” In later years the orthodox four or six ounces was reduced to two ounces, and still more recently some distin- guished operators have discontinued the use of injections altogether. I have never practised filling the bladder with warm water: it seems to me but a mischievous and unnecessary meddling, and the reasons for the use of injec- tions have never appeared to me cogent. On the contrary, I have always observed that when practised by others the procedure is a painful and distress- ing one, not free from danger, and of a nature to arouse patients from appa- rently deep sleep. Indeed, I have generally noticed that the injection causes more pain than the sound or lithotrite, and that even when chloroform is used, there is rarely an occasion on which the sleep is so sound as not to be easily disturbed by the injection. Some surgeons, however, run into the ex- treme of operating only when the bladder is full, and when the patient is expe- riencing a strong desire to micturate. It is preferable to operate when the