RETENTION AND INCONTINENCE OF URINE, ETC. 407 cealed under the clothes, will be found best adapted for the purpose. Unless great care he taken in keeping these bags clean, they are apt to become very offensive. Paralysis of the bladder has already.been alluded to in connection with retention of urine, of which it is a frequent cause. Reference has only been made, however, to those cases in which the paralysis is due to some injury or disease involving the cerebro-spinal centres; under such circumstances the affection of the bladder is secondary, and although the progress of the case will be much influenced by the manner in which the vesical lesion is man- aged, the return of power to the bladder is necessarily conditional upon the restoration of function to the nerve centres primarily involved. It is to paralytic conditions depending on purely local causes that I would now draw attention. Just as we find that paralysis of a limb or a muscle may be determined by some temporary nerve-pressure, or the like, so may the bladder be similarly affected. Paralysis of the bladder, either temporary or permanent, is a not unfrequent consequence of retention of urine and over-distension of the viscus. There can be no doubt that in many of these cases the subsequent want of power is distinctly traceable to the pressure which has been exercised, not only upon the nerves supplying the bladder, but also on the involuntary muscular fibres which they control. In this respect the bladder resembles what not unfrequently takes place in a portion of intestine which has become strangulated. After the constriction has been relieved by operation, the gut may remain in a paralytic condition which does not disappear although gan- grene may not occur. In other instances, many days may elapse before the intestine recovers from the senji-paralyzed state which remains as a conse- quence of the compression exercised upon it. In the corresponding condition of the bladder we have no structural alteration, function is suspended, and no ill results need follow. We have illustrations of this form of local par- alysis at all ages, and it is not to be confounded with those senile changes to which the term atony is more correctly applied. In the same way can be explained those cases of temporary paralysis of the bladder following labor, where the viscus may not only have been compressed by retained urine, but also by the head of the child during its descent through rhe pelvis. Atony of the bladder is a condition coincident with either natural or premature senility. A badly-used organ will often assume the features of an old one. In true atony, there is a distinct weakening or thinning of the mus- cular coat of the bladder. It may come on in what maj be called the ordi- nary course of wear and tear of the organ. The bladder, in this affection, may gradually lose the power of emptying itself, and, independently of any obstruction, may present itself as a swelling above the pubes: or this condition may come on, as it most frequently does, during the progress of an enlarge- ment of the prostate gland when the bladder either fails gradually or suddenly breaks down. In many cases of prostatic enlargement, with distended bladder, the latter has been found to be little else than a flaccid bag, with scarcely a trace of normal muscular fibre remaining. We have, therefore, many points of resemblance between the temporarily paralyzed bladder and the atonied one. The first, however, may recover its normal condition; the other can do so but imperfectly. As the disused muscle may shrink in bulk, and become struc- turally altered for the worse, so may the unused bladder. Hence, in all cases of temporary paralysis, efforts should at once be made to arouse action and avert structural retrogression, for in this way the paralyzed bladder may