334 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE BLADDER AND PROSTATE. It will be proper to mention here that a few eases are on record where most exceptional substances have found their way into the bladder. Ovarian and dermoid cysts have been known to empty themselves into it. A case is recorded by Sir Henry Thompson1 in which some foetal remains were removed from this organ. Then again instances are occasionally met with where fecal matters and flatus have been discharged into the bladder, often occasioning much distress. For the most part these cases have been due to cancerous ulceration between the bladder and intestines, and can only be temporarily remedied by colotomy. For these symptoms alone, resort has frequently been had to this operation with the greatest relief to the patient. It is alleged that in addition to the modes mentioned, foreign bodies may find their way into the bladder from the intestines by ulceration. The following case is recorded by Mr. A. Roberts, of the Sydney Hospital, New South Wales.2 The patient, aged 47, had swallowed a piece of slate-pencil two and a quarter inches long, which w-as subsequently successfully removed by lithotomy. Commenting on this case, the author says : “ 1 have left no stone unturned to elucidate the truth in this very interesting case, and can only state that, after much hesitation, I have arrived at the conclusion that the pencil was swallowed by the mouth, and made its way by inflammation and ulceration into the bladder.” As exemplifying a more probable mode by which a foreign body may enter the bladder, and form the nucleus of a stone, a case recorded by Mr. A. J. Cumming3 may be mentioned, in which the patient had been treated for vesical disease. At the autopsy, tlie bladder was found to contain a large stone, the nucleus of which was a pin. The pin had evidently made its way from the appendix vermiformis into the bladder, and had left a fistulous commu- nication through which also worms had been enabled to crawl into the viscus. [A precisely similar case was recorded by Dr. Kingdom4] Malformations and Malpositions of the Bladder. Of the various deformities which come under the notice of the surgeon, it will be generally admitted that, in the production of discomfort and in the denial of the gratification of natural desires, none can compare with those which will now be brought under consideration. These malformations, for the most part, occur in male subjects, often well developed in other respects. Complete absence of a bladder, or of an independent receptacle for urine, is occasionally, though very rarely, met with. Under these circumstances the ureters open by the umbilicus, in the urethra or vagina, or into the rectum. It is possible that this last-mentioned condition first suggested the expediency, in extroversion of the- bladder, of endeavoring by operation to make the ureters discharge into the gut, and thus carry the urine into the rectum. Where the bladder has been completely absent, I am not aware of attempts having been made, with any degree of success, to construct one; nor can I, after a careful examination of the literature relating to the subject, suggest any surgical procedure which would be at all likely to ameliorate so unfor- tunate a condition. Dr. Oliver5 records a case of absence of the bladder in a woman who died at the age of fifty-three. Throughout the whole of the illness which proved fatal to her, frequent micturition is reported as being one of her symptoms. At the post-mortem examina- tion, the ureters, only one of which was pervious, were found to open into the urethra, 1 Lancet, Nov. 22, 1863. 2 Med. Times and Gazette, July 30, 1859. 3 British Medical Journal, Oct. 22, 1881. 4 Trans. Provine. Med. and Surg. Association, vol. x. p. 198. 6 Lancet, Dec. 6, 1879