UKINARY CALCULUS. 254 Much discussion relative to the high operation occurred among surgeons in the early part of the present century, and more favor came gradually to be accorded to it. Cheselden performed it, before finally adopting his per- fected lateral operation. Souberllielle became its champion in 1840. Vidal (de Cassis), in 1852, made a modification by doing the operation in two sittings, to avoid infiltration. Valette, in 1858, attempted to operate by cauterization; Cbassaignac,and afterwards Tisseire, tried theecraseur. Baudon made a special study of suturing the vesical walls. Petersen, in Germany, Poland, in England, Guyon, Monod, and Perier, in France, and Dulles, in this country, have of late years been its warm advocates. Van Goudoever, in a communication made to the Medical Congress at Amsterdam, in 1879, made a strong plea for the operation in the case of infants, and Petersen,1 of Kiel, by the introduction of the rectal colpeurynter, as one of the steps of the operation, and Guyon,2 of Paris, by further modifications, have given a still stronger impetus toward a resuscitation at home and abroad of the old operation of Franco. It has not yet been made clear, however, by statistics or otherwise, that the operation is a good one for any cases except those of adult men with very large or encysted stones, or with vesical tumors of large size, and for the extrac- tion of certain foreign bodies. If it is a good operation for general adoption in all cases that are to be cut, the point has not yet been proved. Dulles, its chief advocate in America, has not, as far as I can learn, recorded any opera- tion of his own. Iiis advocacy seems to be based upon reasoning. E. Bouley, in a monograph of 260 pages (Paris, 1883), gives an excellent historical sketch of the operation. The lateral operation dates its definite existence to Jacques Baulot, com- monly known as Frere Jacques, the greatest of all the itinerant lithotomists. lie was born in 1651, and entered the army as a common soldier at the age of sixteen. Here he encountered a travelling lithotomist named Pauloni, and followed him for about six years, assisting him in his operations. Then Jacques set up for himself and had a most notable career. He adopted a monastic garb in order to distinguish himself and gain more power over the people, but he never made any pretensions to being a monk, although he accepted the appellation “ Frere.” He went to Paris in 1697, being at that time 46 years old, and possessed of considerable reputation in the provinces. His instruments were simple—a large staff without groove, a long pointed bistoury, a dilating conductor, and a heavy pair of rough forceps. His early work' in Paris was varying in its success, until finally, in 1698, he was selected to do the spring operating at the Charite Hospital. He cut 60 patients: 23 died, 24 remained in the hospital with in- continence, fistula, or other serious disorders, while only 13 recovered. The ordinary death-rate in that day was about 1 in 7, by the common operation as practised by surgeons generally, and therefore Jacques, covered with confu- sion, yielded to the public condemnation and left Paris. He now, when 48 years old, began to dissect and to study under Fagon, at Versailles, and made such good progress, adopting the grooved sound, etc., that in 1701, at Ver- sailles, he cut 38 patients consecutive^, and with success in each instance. In 1702, he published his method in pamphlet form, and in 1704 was lauded on all sides, loaded with testimonials, and feted in every quarter; portraits were made of him, medals were struck off, gold sounds were given to him, and various other demonstrations were made of his wide-spread popularity. He died in 1714.3 1 Langenbeck’s Archiv, S. 572. 1880. 2 Ann. des Mai. des Organes Genito-Urinaires, Dec. 1882, p. 1, et Janv. 1883, p. 97. 3 These details, and many other facts in connection with the history of lithotomy, are taken from Chauvel’s masterly article, “ Cystotomie,” in the Dictionnaire Encyclopedique des Sciences Medicales.