502 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE URETHRA. just described furnishes a truly admirable result (Fig. 1352), and one which is incomparably superior to that secured by the operations of Nelaton and Dolbeau, or even by that of Thiersch. In regard to the urinary functions, incontinence, as I have already said, is ameliorated after the earliest operations. From being continuous, as it was at first, it becomes intermittent, and ends by disappearing completely. A num- ber of those on whom I have operated, whose cure was finished a long time ago, hold their water day and night; micturition is voluntary, and the urine is projected with force. Finally, the only patient who has been able to furnish me with informa- , tion on this point, acquired, after the operation, the faculty of practising coitus, and his genital functions are accomplished in an absolutely normal maimer. Conditions which may Complicate Diseases of the Urethra. Urinary Infiltration.—We say that there is infiltration of urine whenever this liquid, leaving its natural passages, escapes into the cellular tissue, and tends to invade progressively the neighboring regions. Etiology and Pathogenesis.—From the terms of this definition it is easy to perceive that urinary infiltration may be produced under the influence of very many causes, and may occupy extremely various situations. When the kidney has been ruptured by a traumatism, or when a large and old calculus inflames and perforates this .organ from within outwards, a greater or less quantity of urine will be extravasated into the perinephric cellular tissue, and a urinary infiltration, thus occurring in an unusual situation, will lead to a ;perinephritis with a special course. Ruptures of the bladder•, either trau- matic or spontaneous, and accidental or surgical wounds of this organ, cause the appearance in the pelvic cellular tissue of analogous lesions, and it is hardly necessary to recall here how many methods, since the time of Frere Come, have been employed by surgeons to prevent infiltration of urine after supra- pubic lithotomy. But it is lesions of the urethra which are the most frequent causes of urinary infiltration. If they are situated in the prostatic urethra, like the incisions of lateral lithotomy, and like some false passages in old men, they cause infiltration of the upper part of the perineum ; they cause it, on the other hand, in the lower part, between the triangular ligament and the superficial fascia, whenever, as is usually the case, they are situated in the anterior urethra, at the level of the perineo-bulbar portion of this canal. If rupture of the urethra in consequence of falling astride on any object, may be the cause of urinary infiltration, more frequently, and in almost all the cases in which it has been observed, it supervenes upon an old and neglected stricture. The mode of production of this long-discussed accident has been cleared up in a remarkable manner by Voillemier, and I have sufficiently described it in the pages which treat of organic stricture of the urethra. I will only re- call the fact that this rupture of the urethra is due, on the one hand, to a previous alteration of the canal behind the stricture, and, on the other hand, to energetic contractions of the bladder. On account of this latter condition, it will be understood that urine may be extravasated in large quantity, and that it may infiltrate, to a greater or less distance, the substance of the tissues, since it is not restrained by any obstacle. Still, it is necessary that it should have caused quite a large lace- ration of the canal, as otherwise it filters little by little into the cellular tissue, and sets up before it an adhesive inflammation which limits its pro- gress, urinary abscess then following. Is the greater or less quantity of urine extravasated into the cellular tissue