SOLID TUMORS OF THE TESTIS. 635 2 Clinical Surgery, p. 295. 1 Rindfleisch, op. cit., vol. ii. p. 196. sections of seminiferous tubes lined with thin epithelium.1 Mr. Butlin, in his critical lecture on the relations of sarcoma to carcinoma, delivered at the Royal College of Surgeons in June, 1880, accepts Waldeyer’s theory of the epithelial origin of carcinoma, and defines this as a tumor of epithelial origin, having generally an alveolar structure, and sarcoma as a tumor of connective- tissue origin, formed generally of embryonic tissues, and without alveolar structure. The cells of carcinoma generally resemble those of the epithelium from which it grows, there is little inter-cellular substance, the vessels run in the fibrous tissue, and multiplication of cells is by endogenous formation ; on the other hand, sarcoma is composed of round, fusiform, or giant cells, which are packed in a more or less abundant basis-substance, the vessels are mere fissures between the cells, and the cells increase in number by division. The most common forms of sarcoma met with in the testis are the round-celled and the spindle-celled, which originate in the tissue between the tubules. The sarcomata are associated with a great number of histoid growths in the testicle, such as cartilage, mucous and adipose tissue, and striped and un- striped muscular fibres. It is not possible to distinguish without the microscope a carcinoma from a soft sarcoma ; the former when cut yields a milky juice, the latter only after its removal. Professor Billroth2 writes that the peculiar structure of the testicle causes most of the growths which originate in it to assume a lobu- lated, cancer-like, alveolar nature. The tissue of these new formations is usually soft. It is often impossible to say whether the growth originates from the delicate cellular tissue of the organ, from the endothelium of the lymph-spaces contained therein, or from the epithelial cells of the seminal ducts. I have much pleasure in quoting Mr. Butlin’s analysis of his vain able table bearing upon carcinoma and sarcoma testis, which teaches many important points:— The round-celled tumors occurred in persons aged between eight months and sixty- five years, but most often before the age of ten, or between fifty and sixty years.. Both testes were not infrequently affected. None of these tumors contained cartilage, or any organized tissue other than fibrous. Glandular affection was absent in two post- mortem examinations out of six, and in these two cases the disease had existed for two months in one case, and five months in the second, and the lungs were the seat of secondary growths in one case only ; yet in five cases there was widespread generali- zation in the bones and skin or subcutaneous tissue. And with the skin the liver was in one patient affected. Several of these round-celled tumors, especially in those cases in which both testes were affected and generalization was extensive, were examples of what has been called ly mpho-sarcoma or lymphadenoma of the testis, on account of tlie- delicate reticulum which can be discerned amid the cells. The subjects of spindle-celled sarcoma were from ten months to forty-five years old ; but the disease was most frequent in patients under ten, or from thirty-five to forty- five. In no case were both testes affected. Cartilage was present in more than half of the cases. The total duration of the disease was rather longer in patients with spindle-celled than in those with round-celled sarcoma ; several of the former lived three years ; most of the latter only two. Affection of the glands occurred in every case in which the body was examined after death, and in two cases in which no exami- nation could be made, a like affection was indicated by the presence of a large tumor in the pelvis and abdomen. The lungs contained secondary growths in every case but one, and in that case a large tumor occupied the situation of the kidney. In noinstance was there extensive generalization similar to that occurring in the fatal cases of round- celled tumors. With regard to carcinoma, there was only one patient under twenty years of age, a* child of two years ; the disease was most frequent between the ages of thirty and forty-