729 DISEASES OF THE CERVIX UTERI. laparo-liysterotomy. The diagnosis of these tumors by vaginal touch, or by bimanual examination, usually presents no difficulty. As in the case of fibroids of the body of the womb, a cervical fibroid may become pedunculated, and thus constitute the so-called fibrous polypus. The removal of tumors which have become pedunculated, either in the cervical canal or in the vagina, is generally quite easy. The pedicle, if thin, may be broken by torsion or divided with scissors; for the division of thick pedicles, Thomas’s spoon-saw is an excellent instrument. Enucleation is necessary if interstitial tumors are to be removed, while those which are subperitoneal can only be reached by abdominal section. Polypi of the Cervix.—While the cervix is very rarely the seat of fibroid tumors as compared with the body of the womb, this comparative exemption is reversed in regard to the presence of polypi, these being found very much more frequently in the former than in the latter situation. Mucous Polypi.—These are local hypertrophies of the mucous membrane of the cervical canal. Different varieties are described, according as the hypertrophy affects particular elements of that tissue. Thus, if the glandu- lar portion is specially involved, the polypus is glandular; if the tumor be chiefly formed by a retention cyst, it is called cystic; and, finally, a remark- able development of the bloodvessels, which are often varicose, causes the tumor to be called a vascular polypus. After the removal of a mucous polypus, examination with the microscope would prove its origin, racemose glands with cup-shaped epithelium showing conclusively that the growth had originated in the mucous membrane of the cervical canal. These tumors rarely attain the size of a hazel-nut, though, occasionally, a cystic polypus may be found much larger. That which has been described by Oldham, as a channeled polypus, may be as large or larger than a pigeon’s egg; this tumor presents an uneven surface, marked by several openings, and lias been compared to an hypertrophied tonsil; it contains numerous canals occupied by a viscid fluid. Most of these tumors can be removed by seizing them with polypus-forceps, and twisting the pedicle until it breaks; the base may then be touched with the tincture of the percliloride or with a solution of the persulphate of iron. If the tumor be large and have a broad base, removal may be effected with the wire-ecraseur, or with the wire of the galvanic cautery. Papillary Polypi.—Siredey and Danlos1 describe under this name vegeta- tions of a benign character developed at the surface of the os uteri. Their origin is 'often the same as the vulvar or vaginal vegetations, which in many cases are also present; they occur especially in women affected with chronic metritis or utero-vaginal blenorrhagia, or in the course of pregnancy. They cause profuse leucorrlioea, and sometimes hemorrhages after slight trauma- tisms, as from coition or digital examination. Except in case of pregnancy, their removal is indicated. This may be effected by the same means as those advised for the ablation of mucous polypi. Malignant Disease of the Cervix.—The two fbrms of malignant disease which may affect the neck of the uterus, are sarcoma and carcinoma. The former but rarely, the latter very frequently, originates in this part. 1. Sarcoma.—According to Bandl, three cases have been observed of cede- matous spindle-celled sarcoma (sarcoma hydropicum, papillare) of the vaginal portion of the cervix. As in the body of the womb, so sarcoma of the neck 1 Nouveau Dictionnaire de M6decine et de Chirurgie Pratiques, tome xxxvii.