810 OVARIAN AND UTERINE TUMORS. Sterility and abortion are both, under different conditions, attributable to fibromata. Pregnancy, indeed, very rarely occurs where a submucous or interstitial fibroid has attained any degree of development. Schroeder attributes this to the diminution of the cavity of the womb; in one hun- dred and forty-nine cases in married women, he found that in more than thirty- three per cent, the patients were sterile, while in the remainder only a very small number of children had been born. Emmet’s experience has been similar to this, and the ratio of sterility which he gives is still higher. Where concep- tion happens to occur, early abortion or miscarriage is likely to follow from the uterine irritation above described ; and, should pregnancy continue to full term, labor is almost sure to be complicated by the presence of a large growth :— In the American Journal of Obstetrics for January, 1886, is a well-reported case by Dr. C. A. Kirkley, of Toledo, Ohio, in which an unsuspected submucous fibroid in a primipara impeded the descent of the foetus ; as a last resort craniotomy was employed, and even then the child was removed with the utmost difficulty. After this a large sessile fibroma was found projecting from the anterior wall, filling nearly one-third of the uterine cavity, and tightly wedging the child’s body against the uterine walls. The patient died in twenty-four hours. In this and in similar cases, as the author remarks, the Caesarean operation (or even Porro’s) would have given a better chance of survival, had the complication been known beforehand. Physical Signs.—These, of course, differ in the three several groups of fibromata above referred to. The submucous fibroid, if pedunculated, and if in the lower segment of the womb, can readily be felt with the finger, as a firm, round, or elongated mass projecting from the uterine wall. If above the internal os, the cervical canal must be dilated before this can be done. When sessile, the lumpy fulness and projection of the uterine wall which it causes may, perhaps, be mistaken for uterine displacement. The direction of the uterine sound, and bimanual palpation, will serve to exclude this source of error; and, by the careful use of a flexible (whalebone) sound, as suggested by Thomas, the outline of the growth may almost always be determined. Interstitial fibroids in the lower segment of the womb are difficult of diag- nosis; they cause bulging and distortion of the lip of the cervix, and thicken- ing and localized hardness or induration of the uterine wall, while by rectal examination the womb is found to be not displaced. When higher up, the sound is invaluable as an aid in diagnosis; after it is gently passed, the womb is made to impinge against the examining finger in the fornix vaginae, and afterwards in the rectum. If there be a fibroma of appreciable size, the finger will soon detect the globular thickening and peculiar sense of density which the healthy uterine wall never yields. Here too the direction of the sound saves us from mistaking an anteflexed or retroflexed uterus with thickened fundus, for a tumor. Still, it will always remain true that small interstitial, or subserous, fibroids are extremely difficult of detection ; and that, when complicated by inflammatory deposits, their certain diagnosis is impossible. When large, subperitoneal fibromata are almost unmistakable. They are hard, solid, with well-defined outline, dull on percussion, intimately con- nected with the womb and moving with it, and present the “ uterine souffle” on auscultation. By vaginal touch, the tumor, if pelvic, is felt to be hard, nodular, often multiple, and inseparable from the womb, which is gene- rally pushed or dragged high up, so that the cervix lies behind the symphysis pubis; the cervix is also indurated, and the uterine cavity elongated. Diagnosis.—Uterine fibroids are most apt to be mistaken, when small, for anteflexion or retroflexion of the womb, for early pregnancy, or for the results