EFFECTS OF IRRITATION ON THE VARIOUS CONSTITUENTS OF BONES. 851 Minute Phenomena of Osseous Inflammation ; Absorption of Bone-sub- stance by Medullary Cells ; Action of Osteoplasts.—We have seen that enlargement of the canals of Havers and absorption of the hone-substance constitute the first macroscopically appreciable phenomenon, and therefore form the first stage of osteitis. But how does this absorption take place? By what mechanism is it accomplished? What is its essential organ? In this process it is the most recent bony lamellae, the most newly-formed layers of osteoplasts, which are first absorbed. In the lamellar system of the Haversian canals, the most central are the most recent, and those which of necessity disappear first. Under the periosteum, the fundamental lamellae are absorbed in like manner, the most recent first. It was believed for a long time, following Virchow, that the cells of the osteoplasts contained in these lamellae took an active part in this absorption, and were the point of departure of a new proliferation. But the most recent researches do not favor this hypothesis. It has not been possible to detect these transformations of the osteoplasts, which had been acknowledged more from analogy perhaps than from direct observation ; and Ranvier, who some years ago had adopted the first theory, now acknowledges that it is very difficult to recognize this pro- cess, that is to say, the return to vegetative life of the cells contained in the bone-corpuscles. “ It is very difficult,” say Cornil and Ranvier,1 “ to compre- hend the exact cause of the absorption of bone in osteitis. If, in intense osteitis, there are sometimes bone cavities which contain a large cell or several cells, resulting from multiplication of the primitive cell, in such a manner that the enlarged cavity may open into a medullary space, nevertheless this is not the habitual method of absorption of the bony trabeculae.” Kolliker, Wagner, Busch, and others, in Germany, and Loven, in Sweden, have combated the theory of Virchow, and have arrived at the conclusion that the bone-corpuscles disappear without leaving any trace, and especially without returning to the state of young cells fitted for proliferation. It was then asked, what was the agent of this absorption, and Kolliker suggested that the large cells of the medulla, the cells with multiple nuclei or myeloplaxes of Robin, were its essential agents. These cells, which are endowed with special chemical properties, have for their function to dissolve the contiguous bone-substance, whence the name osteoclast or osteophage which he has given to them. The special action of these cells does not appear to me to have been demon- strated : the rapidity of the absorption of bone is not in proportion to their number or their dimensions, and they are not always found at the peri- phery of the medullary granulations which penetrate into the lacunae of Howship. According to Ranvier, these cells, the so-called osteoclasts, are found in the course of osseous trabeculae in the process of growth, as well as in the course of those which are being absorbed in inflamed bone. I do not, therefore, attribute the property of absorption of bone-tissue to any par- ticular cell of the medulla, but to all the young cells which constitute medul- lary granulations, and especially to the vascular element of these granula- tions. In regard to the changes which take place in the soft parts of the bone (periosteum, medulla), they are analogous to those which are seen in all inflamed tissues, while having certain peculiarities dependent upon their structure. The external layer of the periosteum is infiltrated and thickened, but it is in the osteogenic layer that the most important phenomena take place, which determine the form of the osteitis. These elements return to the embryonic state, and, according to the direction which the process takes, 1 Cornil et Ranvier, Manuel d’Histologie Patliologique, 2e 6dit., p. 391.