603 ORCHITIS. Injuries of the Testicle. "Wounds of the testicles are not frequent, as the glands, contained in their tunicse vaginales, are loosely suspended at different levels, and so movable that they elude injury. Punctured wounds are generally caused by the surgeon accidentally wounding the testicle with a trocar or lancet when evacuating a hydrocele. The pain, sharp for a moment, soon passes off, the puncture gen- erally causes no after-trouble, and the effused blood becomes absorbed; occa- sionally, however, a haematocele or inflammation of the testicle ensues. The patient should rest, take an aperient, and apply pressure and a hag of ice. A wound from a cutting instrument, when of any size, is dangerous, as the tubuli seminiferi are apt to protrude. The thread-like protrusions must not be touched, as they might be readily drawn out. The wound should be stitched carefully with tine catgut over the tubes. If inflammation super- vene, the whole of the secreting structure of the testicle may. suppurate or slough out. Contused wounds are of serious import, as the subsequent inflammation is- intense, and leads to sloughing of the gland and its coverings. When the testicle is lacerated to such an extent that it is past recovery, it should be removed at once. In the King’s College Museum is an interesting specimen, removed by operation from a man who had met with a severe accident. The lower two-thirds of the secreting structure of the testicle are seen to have been forcibly squeezed out of the ruptured tunica albuginea, which is gathered in folds at the upper third of the gland. At the lower part the tubuli seminiferi are seen as dark, blood-stained shreds, and at the upper part the outlines of the lobules are distinct. Contusions of the testiUle cause extravasation of blood into the cellular tissue of the scrotum, and the parts become of a dark purple color. The pain from testicular contusion is excruciating ; the skin becomes pale and clammy ; the patient vomits, and often faints away, and may sometimes even die from shock. The local symptoms may subside under cold applications ; or inflam- mation, followed by suppuration or atrophy, may result. Hcematocele of the testicle, caused by an effusion of blood under the tunica, albuginea, sometimes follows a blow. Orchitis. Orchitis is the term applied to acute or chronic inflammation of the testicle,, generally associated with inflammation of the epididymis or tunica vaginalis. In the majority of cases it is the epididymis that is attacked, and that causes the greater bulk of the swelling; epididymitis or hernia humoralis is then said to be present. The greater number of swelled testicles which come under our notice are due to gonorrhoea, or to some irritation of the urethra, the- epididymis being the part affected; but orchitis may he due to a squeeze or blow on the testicle, and I have known acute orchitis to follow a severe blow on the outside of the thigh, when the testicle has not been touched. Inflam- mation of the testicle may also be consequent on an attack of mumps, or may- be due to constitutional causes, such as gout or rheumatism. Acute Orchitis.—As cases of orchitis are not fatal, but few post-mortem examinations have been reported. Mr. Curling1 examined two patients who Op. cit., p. 249.