INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE URETHRA. 476 be observed at all ages, and even in infancy. It attacks especially individuals of a nervous temperament. % According to the opinion of Leroy d’Etiolles, and of Caudmont, contrac- ture of the neck of the bladder is to be considered a frequent manifestation of the rheumatic diathesis, and the observation of a number of patients has enabled me to verify the exactitude of this assertion. The disease often ap- pears to be developed under the influence of various causes, some of which act as predisposing, and others as determining causes; such are sedentary occu- pations, living in cold and wet places, the impression of cold, excesses of coitus, masturbation, excesses at table, etc. Symptomatology.—Contracture of the neck of the bladder generally mani- fests itself by two sets of symptoms: troubles in micturition, and a variety of sensations, most frequently painful, felt by the patient. Nevertheless, it sometimes happens that the troubles of micturition exist alone, without being accompanied by true pains. Hence the necessity of distinguishing, as I have said already, a painless contracture and a painful contracture; the second variety being, however, much the most frequent. I will begin, then, the description of the symptoms of contracture of the neck of the bladder with the troubles of micturition which exist alone in painless contracture. The patients have frequent desires to urinate, which increase under the influence of cold and of dampness, and which manifest themselves especially during the night. In addition to being frequent, the inclinations to urinate are so imperious that the patients are obliged to satisfy them immediately, and that, if they are prevented by any cause whatever from doing so, the urine escapes involuntarily. Important modifications are manifested in the form, the size, and the force of the stream of urine—modifications analogous to those which are seen in strictures of the urethra; but what gives this symptom a peculiar character in contracture of the neck, is principally, and especially at the outset, its irregularity and its intermittence. Whilst the modifications of the stream of urine are constant in stricture of the urethra, in contracture, on the contrary, the stream of urine is sometimes large, rapid, and expelled with force, sometimes small, filiform, twisted, interrupted, and without projec- tile force to such a degree that the patients “ wet their boots,” according to the common expression; besides, they are compelled to make reiterated efforts, and to wait a longer or shorter time, either to start the first flow of urine, or to expel the last drops. Finally, in consequence of the obstruction to the flow of urine, and also in consequence of the gradual weakening of the contractile power of the bladder, micturition is often very prolonged. In order to omit nothing from the enumeration of the functional troubles which characterize contracture of the neck of the bladder, I ought to mention a symptom which it is not rare to see accompany various troubles of micturi- tion ; I wish to speak of erections, which by their persistence, especially dur- ing the night, become a source of fatigue. In one of my patients, affected with contracture of the neck of the bladder, this symptom became extremely painful. To these various functional troubles come to be united very often, as I have said, more or less marked painful phenomena, which characterize the second variety of contracture of the neck of the bladder. The pain felt by the patients manifests itself at the beginning and during the whole con- tinuance of the micturition. It is more or less acute, according to circum- stances, that is to say, it presents intermissions ; in general, cold, fatigue, and excesses of all kinds exasperate it. Sometimes localized in .the glans, be- hind the pubis, or in the perineum, it radiates often through the whole length