486 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE URETHRA. In the second case, seen in a child of eight years, the penis presented an almost analogous conformation. The tumor, more voluminous than in the preceding case, was prolonged from the fossa navicularis to the arch of the pubis ; its capacity was great enough to contain all the urine of one micturition, and the child emptied it by com- Fig. 1337. Congenital urinary pouch, flaccid, and distended with urine at the moment of micturition. (After Angers.) pressing it strongly with both hands. Exploration with a stylet made it possible to ascertain the normal state of the upper wall and the absence of the lower wall, from the fossa navicularis to the arch of the pubis. The following is the manner in which Hendriksz proceeded to remedy this deformity. The tumor was included between two semi-elliptical incisions, the skin being first divided, and then the proper mem- brane of the pouch, constituted by the distended and thinned mucous membrane of the urethra. It was then ascertained that this mucous membrane formed near the anterior and posterior extremities of the sac, two valvular folds, which the surgeon incised and destroyed. This done, and a sufficient portion of the walls having been cut away, the lips of the mucous membrane and those of the cutaneous wound were united separately, the first by means of points of interrupted suture, the other by means of the glover’s suture; and a catheter was left in. In both these cases there was not a dilatation of the urethra, hut a vice of conformation closely allied to hypospadia, having the same pathogenesis, and only differing from it in the conservation of the mucous membrane and the skin. The following deformities are likewise worthy of being mentioned :— ' (1) Abnormal Opening of the Meatus.—The meatus may open on the dorsal aspect, or at the side of the glans. A number of varieties of this sort have been observed by Malgaigne, and Guillon presented, in 1843, to the Academy of Sciences, a subject in whom the meatus urinarius opened at the extremity of a sort of pouch, with cpiite thin walls, placed at the right side of the glans. The stream of urine described almost a right angle with the penis, and divided like the water which escapes from the nozzle of a watering-pot. To correct such a vice of conformation it suffices to create a new meatus at the end of the glans. (2) Abnormal Opening of the Ureters into the Urethra.—This malformation is always accompanied by a more or less complete absence of the bladder.