INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE RECTUM. 112 The patient should be thoroughly anaesthetized, and then the two thumbs should be introduced, one after the other, taking care to press the ball of one thumb over the fissure and the other directly opposite to it; this prevents the fissure from being torn through,and the mucous membrane from being stripped off’. The thumbs are gradually separated, and the stretching is then repeated in the opposite direction, that is, at right angles, and then in other directions until every part of the anus has been dilated. Considerable pressure should then be applied to the sphincter muscles all around, pulling apart the anus with four fingers, two on each side, and kneading the muscles thoroughly ; by thus gently pressing and pulling, the sphincters completely give way, and the muscle, previously hard, feels like putty. This will occupy at least five or six minutes to do thoroughly ; there is scarcely more than a drop or two of blood seen, but for a few days extravasation is noticed about the anus. This operation appears, as far as I know, to be quite safe, and very little pain follows, much less indeed than one would expect. Many years ago I was in the habit of subcutaneously dividing the sphincters in cases of fis- sure, and just recently Mr. Pick, of St. George’s Hospital, has spoken favor- ably of the method; for my own part I gave it up, because there is great difficulty in knowing whether enough of the sphincter muscles has been divided ; also, when the patient is under ether, the muscle has no teusion,. and it is really impossible to cut with precision. I also found much pain after the operation, and very uncertain results. Abscess occurred in more than one instance. If the surgeon wants to avoid cutting, dilatation is on the whole very satisfactory, and I have very rarely failed to cure a simple fissure in this way. It is well to put half a grain of morphia into the rec- tum, and to apply cold water very freely, which soon does away with suffer- ing. It happens sometimes that the patient derives more relief florn hot water than from cold. After the stretching, the bruising looks really alarm- ing, but it soon passes away, and I have only rarely seen an abscess follow. Proctitis. Inflammation of the rectum may occur in both a chronic and an acute form.. The symptoms are a sensation of heat and fulness in the rectum, frequent desire to go to stool, and great tenesmus; there may be a discharge of blood and mucus. With these symptoms impaction may be suspected, but a digital examination will settle that point. The acute form of the disease is very rare in this country, and is generally produced by some mechanical cause, such as the introduction of a foreign body. I call to mind a case of acute proctitis which resulted as a conse- quence of an unnatural offence committed by a husband on his wife. Here there was no doubt of the rectum being acutely inflamed, as there was a well-marked blush around the anus and over the buttocks, as well as severe pain and tenderness in the rectum. But I saw no discharge. The most obstinate constipation was present, but was overcome by the use of O’Beirne’s long tube as soon as it could be passed. Idiopathic acute inflammation of the rectum resembles dysentery in its symptoms, but is distinguished from it by the absence of abdominal pain or tenderness and of severe constitutional disturbance; the pain is generally confined to the sacrum and perineum; the bladder is often sympathetically affected, and there is not infrequently difficulty in passing water. The most effective treatment for this condition would be the use of leeches around the anus, hot baths, injections of water in small quantities as hot as could be borne, to which might be added a drachm of Battley’s sedative. A