INJURIES OF TIIE PROSTATE. 371 prostate are usually inflicted in the course of some surgical procedure, as in lithotomy, or by the penetration of a blunt instrument, as in forced catheteri- zation for prostatic obstruction. Lithotomy-wounds of the gland for the most part heal kindly, and are seldom followed by urinary fistula or by any impediment to micturition. Some cases are recorded in which it is probable that contraction of the prostatic cica- trix has resulted in interference with the action of the vesical sphincter, and has caused a more or less permanent condition of urinary incontinence. In Dr. Goodhart’s1 case, the prostate, eleven years after a lithotomy, was found much distorted by a large and puckered cicatrix. From an examination of this specimen, the incision into the neck of the bladder appears to have been very extensive. The patient had suffered from incontinence since the operation. As long as the incision is kept within the limits of the proper structure of the prostate, but little constitutional derangement is likely to he occasioned by it. Where, however, the wound extends so as to divide the capsular investment, the most serious complications, including pelvic infiltration, cellulitis, and peritonitis, are likely to follow. The proper incising of the prostate is one of the most important steps in the operation of lithotomy. Lacerated wounds and ruptures of the prostate have been caused by what is termed “ forced catheterization,” undertaken for the relief of retention of urine, when the en- larged gland has formed the obstacle to micturition as well as to the introduc- tion of an instrument into the bladder. Though this proceeding has received the sanction of some surgical authorities, and has been frequently practised with impunity, it is one which cannot commend itself to any scientific prac- titioner of the present day, except under special circumstances. The conse- quences which sometimes follow the forcing of a catheter through any portion of the prostate, are very disastrous. Not only may the bladder become in this way filled with blood, which has no way of escape, hut the damage occasioned to the surroundings of the gland by the force necessary to drive a blunt catheter through such an obstacle, may cause fatal pelvic cellulitis. Improved instruments, as Avell as improved methods of tapping the bladder, presently to be described, have removed the necessity for a proceeding which can hardly he regarded as a legitimate one. When hemorrhage into the bladder follows laceration of the prostate by the catheter, it may be sufficient in amount to form a hard, globular tumor, immediately above the pubes, which is exceedingly painful on pressure. When this is accompanied by an urgent and ineffectual desire on the part of the patient to micturate, relief may be given by the introduction of a catheter with a large eye, and having for its stylet an accurately fitting gum-elastic bougie. An instrument similar to Clover’s catheter for removing debris from the bladder answers the purpose exceedingly well. Aided by the injection of tepid water, the clot may in this way be broken up and dis- charged. Or the aspirator may he employed above the pubis. From an observation of Dr. Weiss,2 it appears that not only urine but clots can be removed through a comparatively fine needle. In a case of hemorrhage into the bladder after forced catheterization, where it was found impossible to reintroduce the instrument, rather than repeat the proceeding a median cystotomy might be practised, with the subsequent introduction of Mr. Buckston Browne’s3 tampon, as used for bleeding after lithotomy. Where hemorrhage from the prostate into the bladder is unat- tended, as it most frequently is, with symptoms either of retention or local 1 Trans. Path. Soc. Lend., 1876. 3 Lancet, September 15, 1879. 2 American Clinical Lectures, vol. ii. No. 8.