OVARIAN AND UTERINE TUMORS. 818 tion begins early at the original site of the disease. The pain is dull and throbbing, in the back and pelvis, or lancinating and acute, and felt in the groin and thighs, in accordance with the nerves affected; and it may usually be distinguished from that of the concomitant peritonitis by the tenderness and tension of the abdominal walls in the latter condition. The vaginal discharge is characteristic, and almost pathognomonic. It is copious and watery in certain forms of epithelioma, but usually thin, mucoid, brownish, or streaked with blood, and peculiarly stinking in odor. In the former case there is little or no odor, and the flow is simply “ a transudation of serumin the latter the foul smell is due to the rapid necrosis of tissue. Like the pain, it is chiefly found in the later stages of cancer, when ulcera- tion is rapidly progressing, with molecular death of the newly-formed tissue. It is often acrid, and excoriates the pudenda and thighs; its distinctive odor makes the unfortunate patient offensive to all around her. The general or constitutional symptoms of carcinoma uteri scarcely call for comment, as they are common to all forms of the disease. The most obvious are wasting or emaciation, and the peculiar cancerous cachexia or cancerous facies. The former of these is due only in slight degree to the drain made upon the system by the cancerous discharge; it is mainly caused and maintained by disturbances of appetite and digestion, from the excessive toxaemia of the disease, and from the poisoning of the atmosphere which the patient breathes by the foul discharges from the womb. The cancerous facies is indicated by a peculiar dingy-yellow hue of skin which, once acquired, is never lost. This is less yellow than in jaundice, and the white of the eye is not affected. It is caused in part by simple anaemia, and partly by a special form of blood-poisoning not fully understood ; Barnes ascribes it to the decomposition of fecal matter and its absorption into the blood, and terms it coprcemia. Probably uraemic conditions of the blood have much to do with its causation. Diagnosis.—After the stage of ulceration begins, diagnosis is comparatively easy ; in its earliest period, the microscope alone will decide the nature of the scrapings removed by the curette. Few patients, however, in actual practice, apply for relief before ulceration has begun. Then a vaginal examination discovers the cervix enlarged, indurated, and with everted lips; and springing from one of them a spongy mass, soft, friable, with dense, hard edges, either projecting free into the vaginal cavity, or creeping down the anterior or pos- terior vaginal Avail. This may bleed slightly at the gentlest touch, and its contact leaves upon the examining finger a fetor which is unmistakable. The persistence of this odor is remarkable, although a few applications, notably flaxseed meal and ground coffee, will promptly remove it. When with- drawn, the finger may be stained with blood or bloody mucus. The specu- lum should not be used, as it causes needless pain, and is liable to cause hemorrhage which is most difficult of arrest in some cases; the rectum should always be explored, both to ascertain if the malady has yet spread to it, and to obtain a better appreciation of the state of the upper pelvic cavity than can be acquired through the vagina. If there be much tenderness, a solution of cocaine should be freely applied. Finally, if doubt still remain—and cases on the border line will often occur in practice—the microscope should always be employed, and the debris thoroughly examined. Here the diagnosis will be confirmed by finding large aggregations of epithelial cells, with one or more nuclei, in a fibrous stroma Avith alveolar spaces. This may be said to be typical of cancer, although there is certainly no distinctive cancer-cell. In a word, before ulceration begins all of these tests will be requisite for a diag-