^PARTY' DINNER FOR MARCH. 39^ 5. Stuffed Lorn of Mutton.—Qone a fine loin of mutton, trim off some of the fat, and beat the mutton with a rolling-pin to flatten it and to make it tender. Make a stuffing with a lb. of mutton suet chopped fine, h an oz. of sweet almonds boiled ten minutes and pounded to paste, an oz. of crumbs of bread, a tea-spoonful of chopped parsley, a salt-spoonful of mixed sweet herbs, -i a salt-spoonful of pepper and the same of salt, a grain of cayenne, a grate of nutmeg, a grate or two of lemon-peel, and 2 eggs, leaving out one white ; mix these well together, and spread the stuffing equally over the inner side of the mutton; roll it neatly lengthways, skewer it up, and roast before a fire, at a distance, for an hour and a half, basting continually. Put the bones into a saucepan, with a black onion, i shalot, a piece of garlic the size of a pea, half a carrot, half a head of celery, and a pint of water; stew three hours. Strain, and add a table-spoonful of baked flour, a dessert- spoonful of mushroom ketchup, a tea-spoonful of soy, half a salt- spoonful of salt; boil up for ten minutes ; add a wine-glassful of port wine. Pour the gravy over the mutton, and serve very hot. 6. New Potatoes a?td (7) Spinach.—Rub off the skin with a rough cloth; let them stand half an hour in cold water; put them into boiling water with a salt-spoonful of salt, and boil about ten minutes. Drain quite dry, and serve with an oz. of fresh butter in the centre of the potatoes, or on a hot napkin, neatly folded. Pick off the stem of each leaf, and avoid using any that are old or discoloured; wash the spinach in several waters, and put it into a quart of boiling water, with a dessert-spoonful of salt; press it down, and let it boil rapidly (uncovered) for ten or twelve minutes; drain it through a sieve, and press out all the water; mince quite fine, and put it into a stewpan, with 2 oz. of butter, a salt-spoonful of salt, hah the quantity of white pepper, and a tea-spoonful of sifted sugar; stir for six or eight minutes. Place the spinach on a vegetable-dish, smooth it over with a knife, and cut it into triangles ; garnish with fried sippets. Cut a slice of bread into small three-cornered pieces, and fry to a pale brown colour in plenty of butter or oil. 8. Teal and Sea Kale.—Rub the liver over the breast till red; roast before a very brisk fire, basting frequently with butter (3 oz.) till done, from sixteen to twenty-five minutes. Dissolve an oz. 01 fresh butter; add to it 3 grains of cayenne and the strained juice oi 2 lemons (for 2 birds). Score the breast down to the bone at quarter-inch distances; pour the sauce over, and serve at once. 9. Venetia7i Cream.—Make a cream as directed in the foregoing receipt, but instead of flavouring add 8 oz. of apricot jam, or any kind of preserved or candied fruit cut into small pieces. Stir till the cream begins to set, that the fruit may not sink to the bottom.