484 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. for some time; but if the scalp becomes sore, use it less frequently, 01 discontinue it for a time. An excelletit Water to prevent Hair from falling off, and to thicken it.— Put 4 lbs. of unadulterated honey into a still, with 12 handfuls of the tendrils of vines, and the same quantity of rosemary-tops. Distil as cool and as slowly as possible. The liquor may be allowed to drop till it begins to taste sour. To prevent the Hair from falling off, sponge the head lightly every day with cold tea. For the Growth of Hair.—Simmer 4d. of rosemary till of a dark green colour; then to each quart of the liquid add ^ a pint of rum. If the hair is inclined to dryness, mix castor oil with the rum before putting it with the rosemary. Bottle it ready for use. Some add a little of the oil of cantharides. Oil of Roses for the Hair.—Otto of roses, i drachm; oil of rosemary, I drachm; olive oil, i quart, mixed together. It may be coloured red by steeping a little alkanet root in the oil (with heat) before scenting it Castor Oil Pomade for the Hair.—Pour a quart of boiling water over 1 a lb. of fresh lard; stir it that it may be well melted. WTien cold, take it off the water, squeeze it dry, and beat it to a soft cream with a wooden fork; then add by degrees oz. of fresh castor oil and 25 drops of essential oil of bergamot, or any other perfume; beat it till it is like a thick cream. Put it into covered toilet jars. Marrow Pomade for the Hair.—One quarter of a lb. of marrow, 4 oz. of lard, 6 oz. of castor oil, 6 oz. of salad oil, id. of palm oil. Scent the whole with essential oil of bergamot, or almonds, etc. Melt the lard and palm oil together, then strain it, and strain the marrow. Mix all well together until nearly cold, and put in pots. A good Wash for cleaning and promoting the Growth oj Hair.—Take of distilled vinegar, 2 oz.; salt of tartar, 2 drachms; sphit of lavender, \ an oz.; spirit of rosemary, i oz.; spirit of nutmegs, ^ an oz.; essence of essential oil of almonds, i drachm; essence of violets, i drachm; pure spring water, 20 oz. Mix and bottle for use. This is not only the best wash for cleaning, strengthening, and promoting tire growth of the hair, but is a cool and refreshing perfume. For Whitening the Hands.—a wine-glassful of eau-de-Cobgne, and another of lemon-juice; then scrape 2 cakes of brown "Windsor soap to a powder, and mix well in a mould. When hard, it will be an excellent soap for whitening the hands. .... Ironmould in linen or calico may be removed by dipping it inmcdi- ately in cold water. ..... To 7vhiten Lace.—Lace may be restored to the original whiteness by first ironing it slightly, and then folding it and sewing it into a clean