159 BILL OF FARE FOR MA V. 2 table-spoonfuls of mushroom ketchup, a couple of glasses of sherry, season with salt to your taste, return the meat to the soup, warm up all together, and serve with toasted bread. 2. Capon a la Duchesse.—TxM%% the capon for boiling, and blanch it; put it into a stewpan with parsley, green onions, and mushrooms chopped fine; cover the breast with slices of bacon, moisten with fresh stock, add a little butter, pepper, and salt; simmer gently on one corner of the stove, and when done, strain some of the liquor, thicken it with yolk of egg and cream beat up ; add a little lemon juice to make it a little sharp, and mask the fowl, or serve with Dutch sauce. 4. Carrot Pudding.—Scrape raw carrots very fine, till you have a lb. weight of them, grate white bread fine till you have an equal quantity; in half a pint of cream beat up the yolks of 8 and the whites of 4 eggs; melt f lb. of fresh butter in a pint of sherry and a couple of spoonfuls of orange-flower water; add half a grated nutmeg, and sweeten to your taste. Mix all the ingredients well together, and pour them into a dish previously lined with a light paste. It will require one hour’s baking in a moderately-heated oven. MAY SO. ‘ Thy life is no idle dream, but a solemn reality. It is thy own ; it is all thou hast to front eternity with.'—Carlyle. X. Spring Soup. 2. Calf’s Head, Tongue, and Brains. 3. Cauliflower. 4. Gooseberry Tart and Custard. 1. Spring Soup.—Put in a clean stewpan some parsley, onions, chervil lettuces, and butter, to i pint of water, and let them simmer till tender. Season with salt and pepper; when done, strain off the vegetables, and put two-thirds of the liquor they were boiled in to the stock; beat up the yolks of 3 eggs with the other third, give it a toss over the fire, put it all together, and add to the soup. It takes about three-quarters of an hour to cook. ' 2. Calf's Head, Tongue, and Brains {save the liquor in which it is boiled). Thoroughly clean the head and remove the brains; then soak in warm water, and the brains as well, for about an hour. Put the head into a stewpan with cold water enough to cover; when it boils, add a little salt. Carefully skim as it boils until perfectly tender. Boil the brains chop them, and mix them with melted butter, minced parsley, pepper and salt to taste. Skin the tongue, and put it in a small dish with the brains round it. 3. Caulifloiuer.—YL^y'mg picked them into small pieces, which is