BILL OF FARE FOR SEPTEMBER. 2C1 pickled cucumber, red cabbage, and chives or parsley, small, and put in separate heaps over it. 3. Vegetable Marrow.—Choose a fine marrow, and boil it in salt and water from twenty to thirty minutes, according to size. The best pot to boil it in is a mackerel-kettle, because it can be lifted out on the strainer easily. Take up the marrow when cooked, keep it on the strainer over the hot water, and scrape off all the skin very carefully. Cut the marrow in half lengthwise, and then across; remove all the seeds, and let it drain, keeping it hot during the process. Have a large slice of toasted bread buttered and cut into four pieces; place on each a part of the marrow, and smother with white sauce. It forms a delicate and nice supper dish by itself. If preferred, thin toasted sippets may take the place of the buttered toast. 4. Babel Arrowroot Pudding.—Mix into a rather thick smooth batter 3 spoonfuls of arrowroot with a little cold milk. Put the remainder of the milk into a clean saucepan with the peel of half a lemon, and sugar to taste. When it boils, strain it gradually into the batter, stirring it all the time, adding a piece of butter the size of a walnut. When nearly cold, stir in 3 well-beaten eggs, and pour the whole into a pie-dish, round which has been placed a border of puff paste. Grate a little nut- meg over the top, and bake it in a moderate oven. If boiled, it will take the same time, about one hour. —0— SEPTEMBER 7. ' Husband and-wife should no more struggle to get the last word, than they would struggle for the possession of a lighted bomb-shell. Married people should study each others weak points, as skaters look after the weak parts of the ice, in order to keep off them. By attention to this apparently small matter, the course of wedded life will run more smoothly, and thus ensure happiness.'—Dr. Parr. 1. Cray-Fish Soup. 2. Roast Partridges. 3. Calf’s Liver a la Mode. 4. Vegetables. 5. Wafer Pancakes. I. Cray-fish Soup. Wash 50 or 60 river cray-fish; put them into a stewpan with some beef or fish stock, not enough to cover them; stir them over a brisk fire, without ceasing, for about a quarter of an hoJr, or until they are of a fine red, and take them out. Let them cool: pick the meat from the shells and the gut from the belly, that runs to the end ot the tail, which throw away; reserve the flesh from the tails and pound the rest with the shells and the crumb of a French roll, or a slice o oread fried quite brown and crisp, in a mortar, to a fine paste, using the broth (being first strained) in which they were boiled to moisten it