THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 1S2 cooked. Grease the bottom of the dish with butter to prevent its sticking; chop some shalot and parsley; spread lightly; add salt and pepper, a little wine or brandy. Lay the sole upon it, and spread the same things over the top of the sole, and some lumps of butter, with some button mushrooms or a table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, and a little gravy that you may have by you. Rasp over some bread- crumbs, and cook gently in the oven for about half an hour; it will take longer if a thick fish. Only one sole can be cooked at a time. ^ Asparagus Pudding.—ZvX up, about the size of peas, the green tender parts of asparagus, \ pint; put them into a basin with 4 eggs well beaten, i table-spoonful of ham minced very finely, 2 table-spoon- fuls of flour, pepper and salt to taste, and i oz. of butter. Mix well together, and moisten with sufficient milk to make the pudding of the consistency of thick batter. Put it into a pint buttered mould tie it down with a floured cloth, place it in boiling water, and let it boil for two hours; turn it out of the mould on to a hot dish, and pour melted butter round, but not over the pudding. Green peas substituted for asparagus, may be made in exactly t e same manner. , 4 Almond Pudding.-Ni^r,c\s 6 oz. of sweet almonds and 12 bitter ones; beat them in a marble mortar with orange-flower water, add the juice and rind of i lemon grated, I lb. of butter melted, yo s e£2S and 4 whites, a pint of cream, with sugar to the tasta Bake hllf an hotr in puff paste, or butter some cups and fill them half full, and bake. JUNE 21. ‘ She neglects her heart who studies her glass.'— I. Mutton Soup. 3, Stone Cream and Tartlets. 2. Breast of Mutton Grilled. I Mutton Soup.—?v.t 7 lbs. of neck of mutton into a stewpan with 7 • of water a large bunch of sweet herbs, an onion, 3 turnips, 3 “iM^P^per and salt, Le. . done, take out the meat, which a hair- garnished with carrots and turnip . J ^ P sieve, and when cold take o > _ cnmoth and stirred gta- and 3 dessert-spoonfuls of arrowroot mixed smooth, and stirred , dually in to thicken it.