BILL OF FARE FOR OCTOBER. 301 dry it well; boil the liver, chop and mix it with the stuffing, which make of sage and onion and a few bread-crumbs, pepper and salt. Sew the goose up close, and hang it up for a day; after which, boil slowly for an hour in a closely-covered pot, and serve smothered in onion sauce. It is an excellent dish, and prepared with much less cost than roasting. 2. Oxtails Stewed.—Three tails, half a tea-spoonful of pepper, a little cayenne, 8 or 10 cloves, 2 small onions, 2 large carrots, a large bunch of parsley, a little butter and flour; salt to taste. 4. Apple Charlotte.—Peel, core, and cut up 12 good apples; put in a stewpan, with two-thirds their weight of sugar, the grated rind and strained juice of i lemon, and sixth part of a nutmeg grated; boil and stir till in a marmalade, then add 2 oz. of fresh butter; cut 4 slices of bread the sixth of an inch thick; cut them into two-inch squares, and then across into triangles; put them on a dish, and pour over 4 oz. of dissolved fresh butter. When well saturated and cold, butter a plain mould, stick in the bread so that the points meet in the centre, fit one piece in the other round the sides, press in the apple, cover with a dish, and bake in a quick oven for about three-quarters of an hour. Turn out carefully, and serve hot. ‘ The mind ought sometimes to be amused, that it may better return to thought and to itself.'—Phaedrus. I. Gajne Soup.—Cut a knuckle of ham into thin slices, and put over the bottom of a stewpan; on this put a knuckle of veal cut small, or an old rabbit, and 2 or 3 lbs. of shin of beef, with any remnants of game or poultry which may be left. On the top place 3 or 4 partridges whole; moisten with a little water, or the liquor in which a joint has been boiled; sweat this over a slow fire until reduced to a glaze, then fill up with more liquor, and skim carefully. Add 3 or 4 leeks, a carrot, 2 or 3 turnips, a head of celery, and 2 or 3 onions, with a bunch of sweet herbs, thyme, marjoram, basil and parsley, and spice, and boil till the game is tender. Take off the fillets, and put them into a clean stewpan; strain the broth, and put with them. The carrot, leeks, and celery may be cut into dice and added to the rest; let it boil by the side of the stove, and skim off all the grease. Season with cayenne OCTOBER 23. 1. Game Soup. 2. Roast Partridges. 3. Stewed Sweetbreads. 4. Egg Fritters. 5. Vegetables.