477 } I HINTS ON TRAVELLING. —♦— ‘ Peregrinations charm our senses with such unspeakable and sweet variety, that some count him unhappy who never travelled—a kind of prisoner; and pity his case that from his cradle to his old age, he beholds the same still, still—still the same, the same.'— Burton. TEAVELLING may be said to be a state of great pleasure, mixed with great annoyance \ but by management the former may be much increased, and the latter proportionally diminished. In whatever way you travel, I particularly recommend you to guard against the cravings of hunger, both for your health’s sake, and in order the better to preserve placidity of temper, which, with every precaution, is exposed to frequent disturbance. When your mind is ruffled, you can neither see with pleasure nor profit, and the natives are pretty sure to revenge themselves for your ill-humour by imposing upon you. On setting out on the last long journey I made, which was in a private carriage with one companion, I bought a small basket, and caused it to be filled with cold provisions, bread, and fruit, and I kept it constantly replenished during ten months, whenever we were upon the road, to which circum- stance I mainly attribute the fact that we never had the shadow of a disagreement or an uncomfort. There is nothing like a basket of this sort for diminishing the dreadful tediousness of uncertain distances at the end of a long day, and it is a great consolation in case of accidental stoppages. In aid of it, I purchased two clasp-knives, and forks at- tached, a couple of tumblers, and a snuff-box, with an almanac on the lid, by way of salt-cellar. A quarto French dictionary served for a table, and so equipped we almost defied fortune. At the inns where we slept, I always made special mention of the basket over-night, and the consequence was it was frequently specially filled, particularly with excellent game, which, with bread and grapes, or figs, we found ex- tremely palatable and wholesome. Where the wine was good, we generally carried off a bottle or two; but wine, and indeed any liouid