191 BILL OF FARE FOR JUNE. 5. Asparagus Omelet.—Boil 12 of the largest and finest asparagus; cut off the green portion, and chop it in thin slices; season with a spoonful of salt and about a fourth of that quantity of soluble cayenne ; beat up 6 eggs in cream; melt in the frying-pan ^ lb. of butter; pour half the batter into the centre of the pan as soon as the butter is quite hot, then place the asparagus tops upon the eggs, and cover the vege- table over with the remainder. Let this omelet be sent to table on a round of buttered toast. JUNE SO. ‘ We ought to take the titmostpains in every unde7-taking to make a good begitinmg. ’—PoLYBlUS. 1. Asparagus Soup. 3. Vegetables. 2. Veal Cutlets en Papillottes. 4. Cabinet Pudding. 1. Asparagus Soup.—To any good and well-seasoned consomme (jelly broth) you may add asparagus tops, boiled separately, and put into the tureen when you pour in the soup for serving. 2. Veal Cutlets en Papillottes.—Cut the cutlets rather thin from the best end of the neck or leg of veal, and put them into a souse for a couple of hours made with parsley, green onions, a few shalots, and mushrooms chopped fine ; also add 2 or 3 bay leaves and spices, a little oil and lemon-juice. Take out the cutlets and bay leaves, trim them neatly, and put some of the souse on each side, over which place a thin slice of ham and udder. Wrap the whole in oiled or buttered writing paper, letting the end of the bone of the cutlet remain uncovered. Broil them over a moderate fire. When done, serve them in the papers with some white Italian sauce, in a boat, for which any remaining por- tion of the herbs from the souse may be used. 4. Cabinet Pudding.—Add ^ lb. of grated bread to the same quantity of cut and stoned raisins. Boil a small quantity of lemon-peel, cinna- mon, and sugar in half a pint of milk, strain it off^ and add 4 eggs well beaten up; then pour in a glass of Madeira and another of brandy. Butter a mould capable of holding a pint and three-quarters, put in the ingredients, place a piece of writing paper at the bottom of the mould, and steam it for an hour.