238 THINGS A LADY WOULD LUCE TO ENOW. august 10. ‘ “ W/iat a pleasure it is to pay one's debts!" I remember hearing Sir Thomas Lyttleton make this observation. It seems to flow froin a combination of circumstances, each of which is prodtictive of pleasure. In the first place, it removes that uneasiness which a true spirit feels from dependence and obligation. It affords pleasure to the creditor, and therefore gratifies our social affection. It promotes that future confidence which is so very interestmg to an honest mind; it opens a prospect of being readily sup- plied with what we want on fiUure occasions; it leaves a consciousness of our cnun virtue; and it is a measure we know to be right, both in point of justice and of sound economy. Finally, it is a main support of simple reputation.'—Shenstone. 1. Scotch Broth. I 3- Vegetables. 2. Rump-steak. 4- Plain Boiled Custard. 1. Scotch Broth.—Time, two hours. Six lbs. of flank of beef, 6 quarts of water, ^ lb. of barley, 3 heads of celery, a bunch of sweet herbs, a small onion, 2 carrots, 2 turnips, and a little chopped parsley. Take 6 lbs. of the thick flank of beef, and cover it with 6 quarts of water, and ^ lb. of barley; boil it gently for an hour, skimming it frequently. Then add 3 heads of celery, 2 carrote, 2 turnips cut into pieces, I onion, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a little parsley; boil all together till you find the broth very good. Season it with salt. Then take out the beef, the onion, and sweet herbs ; pour the broth into the lureen, and put the beef in a dish garnished with carrots and turnips. 2. Btmp-steak.—Time, twenty minutes. Broiling is the best mode of cooking steaks and chops ; if, however, you prefer a steak fried, do not cut it quite as thick as for broiling, and leave a little fat on it. Put some clarified dripping in the pan and let it boil; then lay the steak in the boiling fat and fry it, moving the pan about to prevent it from burning. When one side is well done, turn it on the other with your meat tongs; if you do not possess a pair, turn it with a fork, but take care not to stick the fork into the juicy part of the steak; put it in the fat or in the edge of the meat. When the steak is done, lay it on a hot dish, with a little made gravy, or a lump of butter and a table- spoonful of ketchup. Season with pepper and salt. Tomato sauce is sometimes eaten with beefsteak. 4. Plain Boiled Custard.—Time, about twenty minutes to infuse the peel; ten or fifteen minutes to stir the custard. One quart of milk, 10. eggs,' peel of one lemon, 3 laurel leaves, ^ lb. of sugar. Pour a quart of milk into a delicately-clean saucepan, with 3 laurel leaves and the peel of a lemon ; set it by the side of the fire for about twenty minutes, and when on the point of boiling strain it to cool. Then stir in i lb. of loaf sugar, and the 10 eggs well beaten ; again strain it into a jug, which place in a deep saucepan of boiling water.