THE GARDEN, AND GARDENING. and planted very thickly in trenches in a sheltered place, where they can be well protected in hard weather; or if dwarfs, dry litter or fern may be fastened round or packed among the plants; and it standards, fern may be tied about their heads. When taken up as above stated, and planted in April in fresh friable soil, they generally bloom splendidly. See that beds of Ixias, Gladioli, and Lilia are well protected by a cover- ing of half-decayed leaves. Dust over the beds and patches of hardy annuals with quick-lime, soot, and wood-ashes in a dry state; slugs are apt to be very destructive to them in mild weather, and in severe weather some evergreen twigs stuck among them will greatly help them. Most of the deciduous trees will now have shed their leaves, and there- fore the whole of the lawns should be thoroughly swept, the borders well raked over, and the grass and gravel kept constantly well rolled. In most gardens the leaves obtained from these sweepings are most invaluable, first for hot beds, and then as part of compost; and, as a general rule, the driest soil and the driest air are ever the warmest, although we never forget the seeming exceptions, that the air is some- times so dry in a severe frost as to be as destructive, when at once admitted among tender plants, as the heated fire from a furnace. Trench up all vacant beds, and leave them rough, to become well frosted; choice and tender herbaceous plants should also be protected from severe frost by a mulching of half-decayed leaves. Now is a good time to see if the drainage of the garden is perfect; if not, let it be seen to at once, for the frost will always have more effect upon plants where the drainage is imperfect. Do not neglect former directions with regard to the store pots of bedding plants—the next six weeks is a critical time for them; after that time, potting off will again commence, and it is amazing how fast they will grow when more heat and a little room can be given them. Many with limited space keep the whole of their flower-garden stock in store pots until March, when they can make more room, and then, when pretty well established, they are turned out of doors with a slight protection. The half of the general directions to pol off Scarlet Geraniums, Verbenas, etc. etc., in autumn, are just so many tantalizing doses to the bulk of practitioners, who, if they did so, would never find room in winter for a tithe of the stuff they want* though they may manage by having fine lots ot store pots, with 20 or •^o plants in a pot instead of one.