123 BILL OF FARE FOR APRIL. tender by the water boiling very gently. It is an admirable dish either hot or cold; and at this season of the year may with advantage be dressed over night, and served next day with a salad or pickles. 4. Ground Rice Pudding.—Boil a cupful of ground rice in a pint of new milk, with lemon-peel and cinnamon. When cold, add sugar, nutmeg, and 2 eggs well beaten. Bake with a crust round the disln —0— APRIL 16. ‘ 0 grant me, Heaven, a middle state. Neither too humble nor too great; More than enough for natiire's ends. With something left to treat my friends.'—Mallet. 1. POTAGE A LA ReINE. 2. Curried Fowl. 3. Vegetables. 4. Spanish Fritters. I. Potage d, la Reine.—Boil a couple of young fowls, with a bunch of parsley, in enough water. When done, take them out, skin them, and cut ofiF all the flesh. Return the skin, the bones, and sinews to the broth, and let all boil together till well reduced. Then strain off; chop up the flesh of the fowls as fine as you can, and then pound it in a mortar with half a dozen blanched almonds, a couple of hard egg- yolks, and some cruinb of bread soaked in the broth. While pounding, gradually moisten with broth, and work till all is smooth enough to press through a strainer. Add this fntrie to the chicken broth, stirring in at the same time a pint or more of cream, and seasoning lightly with pepper and salt. Before pouring the soup into the tureen, toasted or fried bread-dice may be laid at the bottom; but the soup is kept whiter by only adding rice or vermicelli, ready cooked, in the broth. 2 Curned Fowl.~Cui the fowl or rabbit into small pieces; melt i- lb. fresh butter in a stewpan, and, when dissolved, put in the meat, and a Spanish onion cut into thin slices. When the meat becomes bro^vn, pour in about half a pint of veal stock, and stew over a gentle fire for a quarter of an hour. Mix a table-spoonful of flour with a spoonful of salt m water then add 3 tea-spoonfuls of curry powder and the juice of a lemon to the meat; stir all well together, and give it twenty minutes’ more stewing. Serve with boiled rice. of a French roll into lengths as thick as your finger, in which shape you will soak in some cream nut- meg, sugar, pounded cinnamon, and an egg. When well soaked, fry of a nice brown, and serve with butter, wine, and sugar sauce ' ^