225 BILL OF BABB FOB AUGUST. easily separate the fish from the bone. This will allow for a /arge, thick fish about eight minutes to the lb., six minutes for a thin fish. The fish should be served on a hot napkin, with a garnish of cut lemon and parsley, and lobster or shrimp sauce. 2. Staved Oxtails.—Cut these into joints and parboil them ; put them into a stewpan with enough cold water to cover them; add a spoonful of salt, a spoonful of mixed, powdered allspice, powdered mace, and soluble cayenne pepper, 4 cloves, and an onion chopped fine. Stew gently for an hour and three-quarters ; strain off the liquor, boil it up, and pour it, quite hot, over the meat Garnish with sippets of toast, and serve with a fresh lemon and Reading sauce. 3. Boast Babbit.—OviQ. large rabbit, pepper, salt, nutmeg, i lb. of butter, 4 dessert-spoonfuls of milk, i table-spooriful of flour, yolks of 2 eggs, brown gravy, the peel of half a lemon grated. 4. French Beans.—Having boiled beans as usual, warm them up again in parsley and butter. 5. Barotiess Pudding.—Three-quarter lb. suet, | lb. raisins, weighed after being stoned, f lb. flour, 1 pint milk, ^ salt-spoonful salt Mode: Prepare the suet by carefully freeing it from skin, and chop it finely; stone the raisins, and cut them in halves, and mix both these ingredients with the salt and flour; moisten the whole with the above proportion of milk, stir the mixture well, and tie the pudding in a floured cloth which has been previously wrung out in boiling water. Put the pudding into a saucepan of boiling water, and let it boil without ceasing four and a half hours. Serve with plain sifted sugar only, a little of which may be sprinkled over the pudding. Great attention must be paid to the time of boiling, which should never be less than that mentioned. AUGUST 2. * Pleasures are like poppies spread. You seize the flower, its bloom, is shed; Or like the snowfall in the river, niofnent white—then melts for ever ; Or like the borealis race. That flit ere you can point their place ; Or like the rainbow's Icmely form Evanishing amid the Burns. 1. Garden Soup. 2. Roast Wild Ducks. 3- Neck OF Veal. 4. Alexandra Pudding. 5. Vegetables. ed to taste, 4 onions, a head p