509 HINTS FOR DEPORTMENT, ETC. ‘ Beware lest thou from sloth, that would appear But lowliness of mind, with joy proclaim Thy want of work,—a charge thou couldst not hear From other lips without a blush of shame. Or pride indignant: then be thine to blame, And make thyself of worth ; and thus enlist The smiles of all the good, the dear to fame : 'Tis infamy to die and not be miss’d, And let all soon forget that thou didst e’er exist: ‘ Rise to some work of high and holy love. And thou an angel’s happiness shalt know; Shalt bless the earth, while in the world above, The good begun by thee shall onward flow In many a branching stream, and wider grow: The seed, that in these few and fleeting hours Thy hands unsparing and unwearied sow. Shall deck thy grave with amaranthine flowers. And yield the fruit divine in heaven’s immortal bowers.’ —Carlos Wilcox. EXAMPLE TO OUR SERVANTS. Example, is of the greatest importance to our servants, particularly those who are young, whose habits are frequently formed by the first service they enter. With the mild and good, they become softened and improved j but with the dissipated and violent, are too often disorderly and vicious. It is therefore not among the least of the duties incum- bent on the heads of families, to place in their view such examples as are worthy their imitation. But these examples, otherwise praiseworthy, should neither be rendered disagreeable, nor have their force diminished by any accompaniment of ill-humour. Rather, by the happiness and comfort resulting from our conduct towards our domestics, should they be made sensible of the beauty of virtue and piety. What we admire we often strive to imitate; and thus they might be led on to imbibe good principles, and to form regular and virtuous habits.—Mrs. Parkes. fenelon’s advice to housekeepers. Women run a risk in being extreme in eveiything; it is good to accustom them from their very childhood to have something under their government and management,—to keep accounts, to see the man-