288 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. let the whole heat through; when at the point of boiling, serve very hot in a covered tureen. 3. Baked Codling Pudding.—Roast half a dozen large codling apples, and take out the pulp. Beat up the yolks of 8 and the whites of 4 eggs; add a pound of powdered white sugar, the same weight ot clarified butter, the juice of a lemon, its rind cut very small, an ounce of candied orange and lemon peel cut into small portions, a wine glass of brandy, and the crumb of a French roll finely grated. Mix up these ingredients well together. Line a pie-dish with paste, put in the materials, and send to the oven. Before serving, cover the top wnth powdered sugar, and garnish the sides with candied fruit —0— OCTOBER 7. 'Immoderate ossura7ice is perfect licentiousness.'—Shenstone. 1. Red Mullet. 3. Cranberry Tart. 2. Stewed Fowls. 4. Vegetables. 1. Red Mullet.—Place the mullets in a sautd-pan with the butter, sauce, and wine. Bake them in the oven slowly for ten minutes. Take the fish out of the pan; strain off their liquor •, add to it the truffles, mushrooms, parsley, shalot, nutmeg, lemon-juice, and flour; stir all together over the fire for six or eight minutes, then add a liaison of 3 . well-beaten yolks of eggs and a spoonful of cream. Take 2 sheets of letter paper, oil them well, lay the mullets on them, and spread an equal proportion of sauce over each. Then fold the papers over them and roll the edges together to fasten them. Broil the mullets over a slow fire, sufficiently to brown them on both sides, and warm them through, but be careful not to burn the paper. When done, serve them on a napkin. 2. Stetved Fowls.—Order a pair of fowls to be sent without being trussed, and let the heads and necks be sent with them. Take one of the fowls, cut the leg and thigh into 2 pieces, each wing into 2 pieces, the back into 3 pieces, and the breast into 2 pieces. These, wfith the merry-thought, making 14 pieces. Cut a Spanish or other onion up small; put it into a stewpan with 2 oz. of butter, and a little salt and cayenne; stew it about an hour, till it is a complete pulp. Half an hour before you want it, put in the 14 pieces of chicken ; let them stew half an hour, and when done, put into your silver dish a tea-spoonful of French or Spanish garlic vinegar, or the juice of half a lemon. Mind it requires no water; the fowl will be done in its own gravy. Cut the other fowl the same way, into 14 pieces. Let the heads and