THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 190 tlicm into plenty of boiling W3.ter with some sa.lt a.nd a. little bit ot soda. When they are soft, which will be in about a (quarter of an hour or ' twenty minutes, strain them through a sieve, and serve them with melted butter. . 5. Rhubarb Pie.—As a vast improvement to its flavour, let a table- spoonful of green lime juice be poured over the stalks before the crust is put on. In default of this, squeeze the juice of a lemon, and that of a Seville orange. JUNE 29. * Put this restriction on your pleasures: Be cautious that they injure no being which has life.'—Zimmermann. 1. Vegetable Soup. 2. Mutton Cutlets Grilled. 3. Roast Pigeons. Asparagus Omelet. Vegetables. I. Vegetable Soup.—i:\iQ vegetables should be nicely prepared for these soups. Cut carrots in thin rounds, with the edges notched; grated, they give an amber colour to soup. Wash parsley carefully, and cut it small. Cut turnips into thin slices, and then divide the round in four ; cut leeks in slices; cut celery in half-inch lengths—-the delicate green leaves impart a fine flavour to the soup. Take the skins from tomatoes, and squeeze out some of the seeds. Add a lump of sugar to soups of vegetables or roots, to soften them and improve the flavour. 2 Mutton Cutlets Grilled.—Tskt a well-kept neck of mutton ; cut it into cutlets, with a bone to each; trim them neatly, cutting off the chine bone and nearly the whole of the fat; make them of a good shape, ^d scrape the ends of the bones bare about an inch. Wash, pick, and chop some parsley fine with a little thyme; add these to some bread-crumbs, pepper, and salt; brush them over with egg, and cover them with the Lasoned crumbs; they may be dipped in clanfied butter, and again covered with the crumbs. Broil them on a hot gridiron over a clear fire, dish them en miroton (in a circle, the half of one overlapping t e other), and serve them with plain gravy in a boat; or fill the centre \vith India pickle, and pour sauce round. ..i, • u ^ , Roast Pigeons—"Chat good flavour depends much on their bein, cropped and drawn as soon as killed. No other bird requires so much wasUng When wiped dry, each bird should be stuffed wi h parsley, either fut or whole, pepper and salt, and J oz. b-«er .0 keep ttou moist. Baste them well the whole time at a brisk fire, they will take from twenty to thirty minutes to roast. Serve with parsley and butter, or with breld-sauce and gravy, or egg sauce. Peas or asparagus should be dressed to eat with them.