498 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW Formosum to flower late in the autumn. Commence digging up the borders in the rougher parts of the mixed flower garden; and where the background is formed of shrubs, let them be thinned out, re- arranged, and blanks filled up as may be found necessary; some nice rotten leaf mould pricked in amongst the choicer sorts of shrubs will be very beneficial, MARCH. All the autumn stores of bedding plants must now be potted off with- out delay,, and the stock continually increased by spring-struck cuttings. Have some turf-pits in readiness for pricking out, at three inches apart, all the spring-struck Verbenas. These pits must have a moveable water- proof covering; glass is best, but wooden shutters will do. Nothing is better than calico strained tight, but in very frosty nights some more covering of litter or branches will be necessary. See that hardy annuals sown in pots last month are getting hardened off for planting out. Sow Sweet Peas in pots in a gentle heat, to be hardened off quickly and planted out for early flowering; sow the same in the open border for succession; also sow some hardy annuals in the open ground, and protect the ten derest by placing a pot over them, which should be lifted on one side, or taken off on fine days. This is a good plan when a fine regular bed is wanted, or to form patches at regular distances. Prick out German ten-week Stocks, and sow more seed. A general sowing of hardy annuals may be made at the end of the month if the borders are ready. Sow also /awn grasses in showery weather. Plant out seeding Pansies; top-dress Pinks and Carnations; stir the soil amongst Tulip, Hyacinth, and Ranunculus beds, and protect them from snails. When digging the borders of herbaceous plants, reduce the size of all overgrown specimens, and fill up vacancies from the reserve garden. Finish pruning all Roses, manure them well, and replace rotten stakes. Keep grass and gravel well swept and rolled. Plant out bulbs of the beautiful varieties of Gladiolus. Throw up a dung bed the last week, for tender annuals early next month. APRIL. Let the principal sowing of hardy annuals be made immediately, if it were not done last month. The manure bed recommended last month will now be ready, and may at once be filled with pots or pans sown with tender annuals,—such as French and African Marigolds, Spanish and Indian Pinks, German and French Asters, Zinnias, Nolana’s, Tropoeola, Maurandyas, Lychospermums, and many others which will be found enumerated in catalogues, most of which will be required to be