174 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 4. Eve's Pudding.—Pare and chop half a dozen apples, take 6 oz. of finely-grated bread-crumbs, the same weight of picked and washed currants, 6 oz. of loaf sugar, a salt-spoonful of salt, and a quarter of a nutmeg finely powdered, half a dozen eggs beat up, a table-spoonful of lemon-peel cut very fine, and a tumbler of brandy. Mix all these well together. Boil in a cloth for six hours, and pour melted butter over the pudding just before serving. JUNE 11. ‘ IVe are all a kind of chameleons, taking the hue of our moral character from those ■who are about usd—LoCKE. 1. Filleted Soles. 4. Buttermilk Curd Pudding. 2. Boiled Leg of Lamb. 5- Canary Pudding. 3. Vegetables. 1. Filleted Soles.—YiWtX. 2 or 3 soles, stew the heads and bones in about \ pint of water j put the fillets in a flat pan in about a wine-glass of this water, simmer for two minutes and a half each side. Make a sauce with 2 oz. butter, the remainder of the water, a little cayenne and salt, and chopped parsley, thickened with arrowroot j add the juice of half a lemon, or a tea-spoonful of esclialot vinegar, and pour over the fish. 2. Boiled Leg of Latnb.—Tzkt care to immerse the joint in cold water, and let it boil very slowly. A leg of 6 lbs. will require two hours and twenty minutes before it is properly done. Cauliflower or broccoli are both applicable vegetables; but you cannot do better than send this tender and delicious meat to table reposing on a verdant bed of spinach. 4. Buttermilk Curd Pudding.—Ymsi 3 quarts of new milk, warm from the cow (or made lukewarm), with a quart of buttermilk ; drain off the whey through a sieve, and when the curd is dry pound it m a marble mortar, with ^ lb. of fine sugar, i oz. of sweet and 2 or 3 bitter almonds, and a lemon boiled tender. When these are well beaten and mixed together, add 2 oz. of grated bread, ^ lb. of butter melted, the juice of a lemon, a little salt, a tea-cupful of thick cream, 5 eggs with but half the whites, well beaten, and a glass of rose-water ; stir well, and bake in a dish or cups well buttered; turn out carefully, and sift sugar over it c Canary Puddmg.—YfkQ the weight of 3 eggs m sugar and butter, the weight of 2 eggs in flour, the rind of i small lemon, 3 eggs Melt the butter to a liquid state, but do not allow it to oil'; stir to this ti sugar and finely-minced lemon-peel, and gradually dredge ^ the flour keeping the mixture well stirred ; whisk the eggs, and add them 0