455 THE ART OF PICKLING. Indian Pickle.—Lay a lb. of white ginger in water one night, then scrape, slice, and lay it in salt in a pan till the other ingredients shall be ready. Peel, slice, and salt a lb. of garlic three days, then put it in the sun to dry. Salt and dry long pepper in the same way. Prepare various sorts of vegetables thus:—Quarter small white cabbages ; salt three days, squeeze, and set them in the sun to dry. Cauliflowers cut in the branches ; cut off the green from radishes ; cut celery in three- inch lengths; cut young French beans whole, likewise the shoots of elder, which will look like bamboo. Apples and cucumbers choose of the least seedy sort; cut them in slices or quarters if not too large. All must be salted, drained, and dried in the sun, except the latter, over which you must pour boiling vinegar, and in twelve hours drain them, but no salt must be used. Put the spice, garlic, of a lb. of mustard-seed, and as much vinegar as you think enough for the quantity you are to pickle, into a large stone jar, and i oz. of turmeric, to be ready against the vegetables should be dried. When they are ready, observe the following directions :—Put some of them into a 2-quart stone jar, and pour over them i quart of boiling vinegar. Next day, take out those vegetables, and, when drained, put them into a large stock-jar, and, boiling the vinegar, pour it over some more of the vegetables; let them lie a night, and do as above. Thus proceed, till each set is cleansed from the dust which has fallen on them by being so long doing; then to every gallon of vinegar put 2 oz. of flour of mustard, mixing, by degrees, with a little of it boiling hot. The whole of the vinegar should be scalded, but set to be cool before put to the spice. Stop the jar tight. This pickle will not be ready for a year; but you may make a small jar for eating in a fortnight, by giving the cauliflower one scald in water, after salting and drying as above, but without the preparative’vinegar; then pour the vinegar that has the spice and garlic boiling hot over. If at any time it be found that the vegetables have not swelled properly, boiling the pickle, and pouring it over them hot, will plump them. Mixed Fickle.—{Tht pickle-liquor to be made in May or June.)— Have a large jar (with a tightly-fitting lid), in which put as much vinegar as required, reserving a little to mix the various powders to a smooth paste. Put into a basin the mustard, turmeric, pepper, and cayenne j mix them with vinegar, and stir well till no lumps remain j add all the ingredients to the vinegar, and mix well. Keep this liquor in a warm place, and thoroughly stir every morning for a month with a wooden spoon, when it will be ready for the different vegetables to be added to it. As these come into season, have them gathered on a dry day and put into the pickle, after wiping them with a dry cloth to free them from moisture. The cauliflowers must be divided into small