348 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. DECEMBER lO. * JVe overstate the ills of life, and take Imagination, given us to bring down The choirs of shining angels, overshone By God’s clear glory,—down our earth, to rake The dismal snows instead: flake followingflake. To cover all the corn. We walk upon The shadows of hills, across a level thrown. And pant like climbers. Near the alder brake We sigh so loud, the nightingale within Refuses to sing loud, as else she would.' —Mrs. E. Barrett BROWNiKa 1. Broiled Carp. 4. Apple Soufflee. 2. Roast Turkey. 5. Vegetables. 3. Tongue. 1. Broiled Carp.—When your fish is scaled, emptied, and wiped thoroughly dry, smear it with a little oil, and lay it on the gridiron. When done, you may serve it either on a bed of sorrel, or -with caper sauce, or with a maitre-d’hotel sauce, or simply with oil and vinegar. Either way, it is light and digestible. 2. Roast Turkey.—If the weather be very cold, a turkey will hang for a week, and will prove to be all the better, however young it may be; but take great care not to let it be the least thing gone. Pluck, draw, and singe it with care; wash and wipe the outside well, and pom- water through the inside. Fill the breast with sausage meat, seasoned with minced herbs, lemon-peel, mace, and cayenne. Truss the bird, roast it at a clear fire, baste constantly with butter, and serve it when done with brown gravy and bread sauce. A chain of fried sausages is often placed round a turkey. 3. Tongue.—Soak it all night before using, and be careful to wash out the salt which is put into various crevices to preserve it Boil it in plenty of water from two hours and a half to three hours. Remove the skin before sending it to table, and garnish with parsley. 4. Apple Soufflee.—Ten or 12 large apples, peel of half a lemon, whites of 4 eggs, 3 oz. of loaf sugar, half a pound of puff paste. Well-butter the outside of a tin or pie-dish, cover it with good puff paste, and bake it a nice light colour. When done, take out the dish carefull)^, and fill the inside of the paste with 10 or 12 large apples, 3 oz. of pounded sugar, and the peel of half a lemon stewed until perfectly soft Whisk the whites of 4 eggs very stiff, pile it on the apples, strew sifted sugar over it, and brown it lightly in a gentle oven. Serve hot, wth a napkin round it