441 RECEIPTS FOR SALADS. Pod's Receipt for Salad.— ‘ Two large potatoes, passed through kitchen sieve, Unwonted softness to the salad give ; Of mordent mustard, add a single spoon. Distrust the condiment that bites too soon ; But deem it not, thou man of herbs, a fault. To add a double quantity of salt; Three times the spoon with oil of Lucca crown, And once with vinegar, procured from town; True flavour needs it, and your poet begs The pounded yellow of two well-boiled eggs ; Let onion atoms lurk within the bowl. And, scarce suspected, animate the whole; And, lastly, in the flavoured compound toss A magic tea-spoon of anchovy sauce; Then, though green turtle fail, tho’ venison’s tough, And ham and turkey are not boiled enough. Serenely full, the epicure may say : Fate cannot harm me—I have dined to-day.’ —Rev. Sydney Smith. An Excellent Salad of Young Vegetables.—Pare off the coarse fibrous parts from 4 or 5 artichoke bottoms, boiled quite tender, well drained, and freed carefully from the insides; cut them into quarters, and lay them in the salad-bowl; arrange over them some cold new potatoes and young carrots sliced moderately thin; strew minced tarragon, chervil, or any other herbs which may be better liked, thickly over the surface, and sauce the salad with an English or French dressing just before it is sent to table. Very young French beans, cut into short lozenge-shaped lengths, or asparagus points, can be added to this dish at pleasure; or small tufts of cauliflower placed round it. When these are put, the herbs may be omitted. A little of the liquor of pickled Indian mangoes is an improvement; or, in lieu of it, some Chili vinegar, or cayenne pepper. Walnut Salad.—This is a common summer salad in France, where the growth of walnuts is generally abundant, but is not much served in England, though the sweet flavour of the just-formed nut is very agree- able. Take the walnuts when a pin will pierce them easily; pare Siem down to the kernels, and toss them gently, just before they are served, m a French or English salad dressing (the former would generally be preferred, we think), and turn them into the salad-bowl tor table. Water-cress Salad.—These are best before the frosts have touched them. It IS not usual to mix anything else witli them hut only to have