BILL OL BARE FOR ABRIL. IT7 sugar sifted over them, and the following sauce; dish flavoured with essence of lemon instead of sweet almonds. Almond Sauce.—Moisten a dessert-spoonful of arrowroot with a little cold water; boil 3 do. of sugar in a gill of water for ten minutes, mix it with the arrowroot, and stir it over the fire for two minutes ; add 2 table-spoonfuls of brandy, and essence of sweet almonds 20 drops. Serve in the dish, not over the pudding. -0— APRIL 9. •/would not rob your sex of a single advantage you possess from nature, providence, or legitimate custom, /would not divest you of the smallest ornament that judgment hus^et on, that prudence allows, or that decency warrants.'—Rev. James Fordyce, 1. Mulligatawny Soup. i 3. Vegetables. 2. Leg of Veal Boiled. | 4. Ratafia Pudding and Sauce. I. Mulligatawny Soup. — ^Xxc^ and peel 12 good-sized onions; fry them in butter, with a full table-spoonful of curry-powder. Put them into a stewpan with 2 quarts of good veal stock and a small quantity of mace, thickening with flour. Stew for an hour, and strain it. If not thick enough, add a little more flour and butter. Cut up a cold chicken into small pieces, and put it into the soup with a tea-cupful of cream Live a final boil, and serve. Take out the bone, and fill the space with a stuffing made of bread-crumbs, minced salt pork, suet chopped fine parsley, sweet herbs, pepper, and salt; sew up the opening, or Lw the flap over It, and skewer it down. Put it into a long pot, and cover it with cold water mth a table-spoonful of salt; skim it well, and let it ITk'into r i done enough which maybe ascertained bypassing a fork m o it Serve with parsley and butter, or oyster sauce. The liquor will make excellent soup or broth with the addition of vegetables and Sauce.—^olk in half a pint of boiling milk 4 gill of Lallf'half 4 fresh eggs well beaten, half a g U of cream, half a wine-glassful of ratafia, and 2 oz. of blanched sweet witlf. except the almonds, and beat for ten minutes with a wooden spoon; butter a basin, and stick it in lines widi the atTtlVrinVJ^ butter out clrefullv ^ \ f over fast-boiling water. Turn carefully, and have ready to pour in the dish the following sauce!