PRELUDE OF MOTTOES EXPRESSIVE OF WHAT ALL GOOD MEN THINK OF WOMEN. In garnering together these few mottoes, expressive of what all true and good men think of the gentle sex, I have had no difficulty. The brave and generous spirits of all times have ever been ready to speak out of the simple abundance of their hearts; hence I have had rather to curtail riches of literature on this theme, than delve for it. And the motive I have for binding this bouquet together as a free-will offering to the maidens, the mothers, and the matrons of the world, is simply to let them know that loving specimens of each have ever existed, and will exist, to bless and humanize our rougher sex. A loving woman is an angel in the house, her presence and influence have ever been on the right side. From our earliest infancy woman moulds us, and the greatest men have ever willingly and cordially acknowledged a mother’s love and early training. How great, then, is your responsibility ! As you plant, so shall the harvest yield; as you bend, so shall the tree grow. Our future is undoubtedly in the hands of woman; and it coidd not be better hands. How truly Shakspeare thought, when he wrote of you as ‘ the books, the arts, the academies, that show, contain, and nourish all the world ’! Assuredly this is so, and with all my heart I endorse his most excellent judgment. I cannot do better than close these few proemial observations by quoting the inspired words of the wisest man who ever lived:— ' A virtuous woman ! her price is far above rubies. The heart of her husband doth safely trust in her, so that he shall have no need of spoil. ‘She will do him good, and not evil, all the days of her life. •She seeketh wool and flax, and worketh willingly with her hands, ^ She IS hke the merchants’ ships ; she bringeth her food from afar. norfinn tn night, and giveth meat to her household, and a portion to her maidens. vineyrrS ^ ‘he fruit of her hands she planteth a I She girde* her loins with strength, and strengtheneth her arms. She Perceiveth that her merchandise is good ; her candle goeth not out by night. ^ She layeth her hands to the spindle, and her hands hold the distaff. needy ‘he poor; yea, she reacheth forth her hands to the with scarii."°‘ household : for aU her household are clothed ‘She maketh herself coverings of tapestry ; her clothing is silk and purple Her husband ,s known in the gates, when he sitteth among the elders of the land She maketh fine linen, and selleth it; and delivereth girdks unto the mer“