390 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. through a fine sieve. Cut the meat off the head into inch square pieces ; put it into the soup, add the strained juice of a lemon; simmer for twenty minutes. Put in the Madeira or sherry, and serve immediately. Cut lemons and cayenne should be handed. 2. Baked Cod with Supreme Sauce.—Have a piece out of the middle of a fine cod weighing about 4 lbs.; wash it in salt and water; rub it over with a wine-glassful of vinegar, and let it stand an hour; roll it in a cloth to dry. Mix together 2 oz. of fine crumbs of bread, a tea- spoonful of mixed herbs in fine powder, a salt-spoonful of salt, a salt- spoonful of pepper, the eighth part of a nutmeg grated, the peel of half a lemon grated, half a grain of cayenne. Beat i fresh egg, brush the fish over with the egg, and dredge it with the crumbs. Slice an onion and a carrot, and put them into a tin dish with a small cupful of water and a wine-glassful of vinegar. Put the fish on a drainer and place it over the vegetables, but neither the water nor the vegetables must touch the fish. Put it into a moderately-heated oven, and bake about an hour, basting it frequently with dissolved butter. When half done turn the fish, then strew over some more crumbs, and baste with the butter. 3. Brisket of Beef Stewed with Pickles.—Have a nicely cut piece of brisket, about 6 lbs. ; hang it before a good fire to roast for one hour; dredge it lightly with flour, and baste well. Chop one onion, cut into half inch squares, i carrot, i turnip, and a small head of celery; put them into a stewpan, with 2 oz. of butter, and fry till brown; lay in the beef, with a pint and a half of stock or water; boil up quickly, skim, then simmer very gently for two hours. Mix together a table-spoonful of flour, a tea-spoonful of mustard, a tea-spoonful of sugar, a tea-spoon- ful of curry-powder, a salt-spoonful of pepper, a dessert-spoonful of soy, a dessert-spoonful of anchovy sauce, 2 table-spoonfuls of Harvey sauce, a table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, and 2 table-spoonfuls of the vinegar of mixed pickles; stir these into the gravy, and continue the simmering two hours longer, skimming frequently; add a break- fast-cupful of mixed pickles, cut into inch lengths; simmer another hour, then serve very hot. , • o 4. Lobster Patties.—yi'Y&s: a paste, and proceed as directed in the foregoing receipt, using lobster instead of oysters. Take the meat out of a good-sized hen lobster, and chop it small; put the shells into half a pint of milk, with half an inch of mace, the thin rind of half a lemon, the tenth part of a nutmeg grated, half a gram of cayenne, a gram of white pepper, a ^ of a salt-spoonful of salt, and simmer for ten minutes, then strain. Put the lobster into the milk, and simmer for five minutes. Stir a dessert-spoonful of Oswego flour into ^ a gill of thick cream, and add to the re.st; stir till it thickens, then fill the patties as directed.