4S2 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. cheek with unsightly blotches, convert its fine cuticle into a motley scurf, blear the eyes, discolour the teeth and destroy them by caries, and tip the nose with cranberry red. That effects of this descrip- tion often result from gastric and hepatic derangement, every practi- tioner of medicine knows, and it is a well-ascertained fact that such derangement is produced by corsets. But tight stays make still more fatal havoc of female beauty, by imprinting on the countenance marks of the decay of mental beauty—I mean deep and indelible lines ot peevishness, fretfulness, and ill-temper, the bitter result of impaired health. Woman bears fevers, consumption, fractures, wounds, and other forms ot injury, with a patience and mildness which, if they do not improve her personal beauty, increase her loveliness, and add tenfold to the sympathy and sorrow felt for her suffering; but dyspeptic affec- tions, when brought on by wearing corsets, are submitted to in a very different spirit, and no complaints pour into the temper such acerbity and bitterness as those of the digestive organs. I should rejoice indeed if what I have here said may have the effect of destroying the abomi- nable practice which destroys health, peace, and loveliness. Eurs, Feathers, a?id WooEens not in constant use should be wrapped up in linen washed in lye. From May to September they are subject to being made the depository of the moth-eggs. They should be looked too, and shaken and beaten, from time to time, in case some of the eggs should have been lodged in them, in spite of every precaution; laying them up again, or rather folding them up as before, wrapping them in brown paper, which is itself a preservative. Furs preserved from Moths.—Place pieces of camphor, cedar-wood, Russia leather, tobacco-leaves, bog-myrtle, or anything else strongly aromatic, in the drawers or boxes where furs or other things to be pre- served from moths are kept, sewn up in linen bags. To clean Kid Gloves.—To clean kid gloves, have ready a little new milk in one saucer and a piece of brown soap in another, and a clean cloth or towel, folded three or four times. On the cloth spread out the glove smooth and neat. Take a piece of flannel, dip it in the milk, then rub off a good quantity of soap to the wetted flannel, and commence to rub the glove towards the fingers, holding it firmly with the left hand. Continue this process until the glove, if white, looks of a dingy yellow, though clean; if coloured, till it looks dark and spoiled. Lay it to dry, and the operator will soon be gratified to see the old glove looks nearly new. It will be soft, glossy, smooth, and elastic. To clean White Ostrich Feathers.—Four oz. of white soap, cut small, dissolved in 2 quarts of water, rather hot, in a large basin; make the solution into a lather, by beating it with birch rods or wires. Introduce the feathers, and mb well with the hands for five or six minutes. After