THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 142 tion to these simple directions, the fish will be served to table of a beautiful auburn tint. Garnish with slices of lemon, 2. Iris/i Stew.—Cut the fat off half a dozen mutton chops, peel and divide into quarters 2 lbs. of potatoes, peel and cut into thin slices 3 good-sized onions; mix two-thirds of a tea-spoonful of salt with one- third of soluble cayenne; rub the chops over with this on both sides. Place part of the potatoes at the bottom of a stewpan, and lay the chops on the vegetables, covering with the remainder. Pour in water till both are covered; you may use veal stock or mutton broth, if you have it made, instead of water. Set your stewpan on a slow fire for two hours, now and then lifting the cover and pouring off the water attached to it. 4. Vermicelli Pudding.—Chop up the rind of half a lemon, and break a stick of cinnamon into bits; boil these in a pint of milk, then sweeten with sugar to your taste, and strain through a sieve; put ^ lb. of vermi- celli into the milk, and let it boil for ten minutes ; beat up the yolks of 6 eggs, add half the whites, pour all into a dish, and bake for half an hour. —0— MAY 6. ‘ Live well; and then, how soon soier thou die. Thou art of age to claim eternity d—Randolph. I. Scottish Hotch-potch. 2. Mashed Potatoes. 3. Ipswich Puddixo. I. Scottish Hotch-potch. — Make the stock of sweet fresh lamb or mutton; grate the outer rind of 2 or 3 young carrots, slice down as many more. Slice down also several young turnips, young onions, lettuce, and parsley. Have a full quart of these things when finally shred, another of green peas and sprigs of cauliflower; put in the vegetables, withholding half the peas till near the end of the process. Cut down 2 or 3 lbs. of ribs of lamb into small steaks, trimming off superfluous fat, and put them to the stock. Boil well and skim carefully, add the remaining peas, white pepper, and salt j and when thick enough, ser\e the cutlets in the tureen with the hotch-potch. 3. Ipswich Pudding.—Ydk.es some bread-crumbs, steep in a pint of Bright’s vegetable custard; pound into a paste ^ pint of blanched almonds, and flavour with vanilla. Beat up the yolks of 4 or 5 eggs with ^ lb. of white sugar pounded sinall. Mix these together with ^ lb. of butter melted ; stir well over a slow fire till the mixture is tolerably thick, place puff paste at the bottom and round the sides of your dish, pour in the ingredients, and bake for half an hour.