BILL OF FARE FOR JUNE. 2. Soast Lamt.—L^mh requires to be well roasted, as, if not snfli- 2. Fowls d, la Perigord.—Y\W them with veal, force or sausage meat, with some sliced truffles added to it. Three or four days will be long enough for the fowls to hang in moderate weather. 3. Mmced Veal.—Cui a few slices of the cold veal (roast), very fine indeed, sufficient to make i lb., or rather more, weighed after being minced. Make a pint of bkhamel (white) sauce, and put in the veal, witli half a tea-spoonful of minced lemon-peel, and warm all gradually through. Dish it at the point of simmering, and garnish the dish with fried sippets of bread and forcemeat-balls. 4. White Sauce.—It is seldom necessary to buy meat for this sauce, as the proportion of that flavour is but small. The water that has boiled veal, fowls, or rabbit, or broth that may be in the house, or raw or dressed veal, or the feet and necks of chicken, will suffice. Strew with a little milk and water any of these, with some sliced onion, a piece of lemon-peel, some white peppercorns, a little pounded nut- meg or mace, and a bunch of sweet herbs, till the flavour be good; then add a little good cream, a little flour, a piece of butter, and salt to the taste. Add a squeeze of lemon when taken off the fire, stir- ring it well. Yolk of egg is often used instead of cream, but it is apt to curdle. 5. Peas.—The time they will take depends on their age; in general, about twenty minutes is enough. When done, strain them through a sieve, and pour them into a vegetable-dish over a good lump of butter. A few sprigs of green mint should be boiled and served up with the peas. —0- JUNE 2. The more ue limit and concentrate happiness, the more certain we are 0/ securing itl—Deverant. 1. Macaroni Soup. 2. Roast Lamb. 3. Mint Sauce. 4. French Beans. 5- Italian Cream and Tartlets. 1. Macaroni Prepare the macaroni without breaking or cutting It; let It boil in the broth until it bursts, when it can be easily pulped • tnen rub it through a sieve or tammy into a clean stewpan, add 3 or 4 Pannesan cheese; stir until it boils and is well mixed, adding about a quart more consommi, or sufficient to make it of the >vraE Sam. ^ ““d