THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW, i??r) JUNE 23. ‘ ’ Tis never woman's part Out of her fond misgivings to perfilex The fortunes of the man to whom she cleaves : ’ Tis hers to weave all that she has of fair And bright in the dark meshes of their web Inseparate from their windings.'—Talfourd. 1. Oxtail SOUP. I 3- Vegetables. 2. Vegetable Stew. 1 4- Alderman s Pudding. I Oxtail Soup.—Cut 3 or 4 oxtails into pieces (all but the tips) bv dividing them at the joints, and cut the largest pieces again into two or if very large, into three or four pieces; put these into a stewpan,and co’ver them with water. Let them come slowly to the boil, take off all the scum carefully, and boil gently by the side of the stove, adding a few black peppercorns, allspice, and 2 or 3 cloves ; keep the pan close covered. When the meat is tender, take out the pieces of tail, put them into a clean pan, and strain the liquor to them, which put aside. The roots should be prepared as below. When a basin or two of soup is required, it is only necessary to take some of each and put m o a stewpan with sufficient water to reduce it; then boil, scum, and season with salt and pepper, and serve. Thus, with a ^ ment, this, as well as several other soups, may be kept on hand witho Z danger of their being soon spoiled, and served at five mmutes’notice Pare off the rind of 5 or 6 turnips, scrape 3 or 4 carrots, and peel 2 or 3 dozen of button onions; cut the carrots and turnips into pieces about an inch long and half an inch square, and tnm each m the form 0 crescl !et the carrots be done first, and put them into a ste.^an with sufficient water to boil the whole of the vegetables, let t ese ten ^ or a quarter of an hour, then add the turn.ps, w.th the peeled button onions; boil until tender, then dram the water from Ihertd put them to the tails previously prepared, brown veal cmsommi to make 3 or 4 quarts of soup, e "" rntly in this until well done, season with pepper and salt, and serte. Ihtle omon, t .et.uce,and a cucumber sliced into a quantity of butter, pepper, and sal quantity of boiled L vegetables have been stewed ““ meat peas and some meat into ‘''= P ’ y jish round the meat. is ready to serve in this manner; and it is Mutton, lamb, and veal are excellent a very good way of using up cold meat.