BILL OB BABB BOB BEBBUABY. 75 to the meat a Spanish onion chopped fine, a couple of anchovies, 4 cloves, a blade of mace, a tea-spoonful of salt, and half that quantity of soluble cayenne. Set the saucepan on a slow fire, and let it simmer for at least four hours. Meantime roast the other hare in the usual manner, until it is about half done; then cut it into joints, and the meat of the thighs or haunches in large pieces ; put the head, spare bones, and stuffing of hare the second into the saucepan containing hare the first, and let all simmer for another hour you may then strain off the liquor. When the soup is required, put in the roast meat, with a tumbler of port wine, and warm it on a quick fire for about ten minutes. 2. Mole, made of Ihe Beinams of the Turkey.—Take what’s left of the turkey, and cut up in small pieces; put it in the stewpan with just enough broth to cover it, seasoning it. When tender, take it out and strain the gravy j then take some tomato sauce and a couple of capsicums and pound in a mortar. Put gravy, tomato, and capsicum with the turkey into the stewpan again, with a clove of garlic split in two, and let all simmer together. At serving, sprinkle over a few coriander seeds. 4. Baked Apple Budding.—Peel and slice half a dozen apples, scald them, and steam off the water; beat them up with 2 oz. of butter, the juice of a lemon, and its peel grated; sweeten to your taste; when cold, add the whites of 3 eggs, and the yolks of 5; put a thin crust in the dish, and bake in a slow oven. FEBRUARY 22. ‘Against diseases here the strongestfence. Is the defensive virtue abstinence. Rd. Herrick. 1. Herrings. 2. Rabbit a la Jardiniere. 3. Mashed Potatoes. 4. College Pudding. 1. Herrmgs.~Yz.\i them as fresh as possible. With a sharp pen- knife make 3 or 4 incisions the fish on each side; cut an onion in thin slices; place both on the gridiron, and turn them occasionally till done. Have melted butter ready, in which 2 table-spoonfuls of mush- room ketchup has been poured, and a little fresh mustard. 2. Babbit h la fardinilre.-TIh]oxrA your rabbit, and put it in your stewpan, with onions, celery, and potatoes. Fill up your stewpan lith both, and if you have any good beef or mutton gravy, add it to the Lnd = let all simmer together till the rabbit is ender. Fry some thin slices of bacon, and lay them round the dish.