^33 BILL OF FARE FOR APRIL. APRIL 2 3. ‘ I hate to see a thing done hy halves ; if it be right, do it boldly ; if it be wrong, leave it tindone.'—Gilpin. 1. Chicken Broth.—Cut up a lean fowl into joints. An old one makes better broth than a young one, but it takes a longer time to stew. Put it in a well-closed saucepan, with a beef or veal bone, onions, caiTOt, a sprig of parsley, a pinch of salt, and plenty of water. Skim as soon as it boils up, and simmer gently afterwards. 2. Bmif d. la Flammanade.—Select a rib of beef of sufficient thick- ness to weigh at least 8 lbs. Let the meat be well larded, and braized over a slow fire; then add a pottle of fresh mushrooms (forced at this season), 2 lbs. of ruffles, two dozen forcemeat-balls made with plenty of eggs, and half a pint of Madeira. 4. Amber Puddmg.—Put a lb. of butter into a saucepan with | lb. of loaf sugar finely powdered. Melt the butter, and mix well with it; then add the yolks of 12 eggs well beaten, and as much fresh candied orange as will add colour and flavour to it, being first beaten to a fine paste. Line the dish with paste for turning out, and when well filled with the above, lay a crust over as you would a pie, and bake it in a slow oven. 'Sobriety is a sort of spiritual vesture entirely void of show, substantial, home-sptin, and hardy—itot unfit for any place where a reasonable being ought to appear.' Rev. James Fordyce, D.D. 1. Cai7ot and Onion Soup.—Cut up a lb. of lean beef into small pieces. Put it into a stewpan with chopped onions and carrots, a few thin slices of bacon, and half a tumbler of water. Let them simmer and stew for a quarter of an hour, till they begin to stick to the bottom of the stewpan, then add a quart of boiling water. With a pinch of salt boil three-quarters of an hour. Strain and serve. 2. Pig's Head Roasted.—Divide the head of a young porker in half, take out the brains, and cleanse the interior thoroughly. Put stuffing of bread-crumbs, sweet herbs, and lemon-peel, into the space once occupied by the brains ; tie the head together carefully; a stitch or two r. Chicken Broth. 2. Bceuf a la Flammanade. 3. Vegetables. 4. Amber Pudding. APRIL 2 9. 1. Carrot and Onion Soup. 2. Pig’s Head Roasted. 3. Vegetables. 4. Bread and Butter Pudding.