BILL OB BABE BOB MAY. 143 MAY 7. * Live thy better, let thy worst thoughts die,'—SiR Walter Raleigh. 1. Green Pea Soup. 4. Blanc Mange and Raspberry 2. Lobster a la mode Francaise. Tarts. 3. Vegetables. r. Green Pea Soup.—A good-sized tureen of soup cannot be made with less than a peck of peas. Half fill a large saucepan with water; as soon as it boils put in 3 table-spoonfuls of salt, skim the scum off, and then put in the peas j let them boil for five-and-twenty minutes, drain off the water. Put 3 quarts of broth, made from mutton or veal, but without herbs or spices, into a stewpan; add the peas to this with a dozen leaves of mint, cover down tightly, and let all stew for an hour and a quarter; season to your taste with pepper and salt, rub it through a coarse sieve with a wooden spoon, and serve it quite hot with toasted bread cut into dice. 2. Lobster d, la mode Bratifatse.—Pick the meat from the shell, and cut it up into small square pieces. Put the stock, cream, and seasoning into a ste\vpan, add the lobster, and let it simmer gently for six minutes. Serve it in the shell, and have a border of puff paste. Cover it with bread-crumbs, place small pieces of butter over, and brown before the fire. 4. Blanc Mange and Baspberry Tarts.—Boil i oz. of pickled isinglass, till it is quite dissolved, in pints of milk; add the peel of half a lemon cut fine, half a stick of cinnamon broken up, a blade of mace, oz. of finely powdered white sugar; blanch and pound in a mortar 10 bitter and ^ oz. of sweet almonds, beat together in a spoonful of rose- water; mix all these with the milk whilst quite hot, and let it simmer very gently for five minutes. Strain through a fine sieve, let it stand for half an hour, and then pour it into a mould. MAY 8. * So live, that when the sun Of your existence smks in night. Memorials sweet of mercies done May shrineyotir name in memory's light; And the blest seeds you scattered, bloom A hundredfold m days to come. ’—Bowring. 1. Green Pease Soup. 3. Vegetables. 2. Chump of Veal. 4. Fondue. 1. Green Pease Soup.—Tut i lb. of butter at the bottom of a large stewpan. When hot, throw into it three pints of young green peas, two