BILL OF FARE FOR DECEMBER. 361 Moisten with a tea-cupful of mutton broth and half a glass of wine (white or red). Let the cover of the stewpan fit down as close as possible. Simmer very gently over a slow fire, giving a shake from time to time, to make sure that nothing sticks to the bottom. It takes a considerable time to do thoroughly, but has the advantage of being able to be kept hot, and always remaining in readiness. 3. Omelet Glace.—Six eggs, a little salt, 5 or 6 macaroons, the peel of half a lemon. Break and separate the yolks from the whites of 6 fresh eggs; add a pinch of salt, the peel of half a lemon minced fine, and 5 or 6 pounded macaroons; mix all well together. Then whip the whites to a stiff froth ; beat them well into the yolks, and then pour the mixture into a pan of hot butter; stir them round, and raise the edges to separate it from the pan; turn them over, and then turn the omelet on a dish; sprinkle sugar over it, and lightly brown with a salamander. Serve quickly. —0— DECEMBER 24. ‘ The best sort of revenge is not to be like him who did the injury.'—ANTONINUS. 1. Tapioca Soup. 3. Cream Omelet. 2. Beefsteak Pudding. 4. Vegetables. 1. Tapioca Soup.—Put as much ready-boiled tapioca into your stock as will bring it to the consistency of good pease soup. There ought never to be a mere sediment of tapioca at the bottom of your tureen, covered and drowned by an ocean of broth. The tapioca should per- vade the soup. Flavour with whatever you like. The ordinary vege- tables are most commonly employed. 2. Beefsteak Pudding. Line a basin with a well-made light paste, not too thick ; put in half the quantity of beef required, each piece having been seasoned with a little salt and soluble cayenne pepper; then put in 12 oysters with their liquor, 2 table-spoonfuls of mushroom ketchup, 2 tea-spoonfuls of shalot vinegar, and the rest of the meat. Let your top crust be well secured to the basin, the whole carefully tied up. Boil according to the size of your pudding. 3. Cream Omelet.—Ten eggs, 3 table-spoonfuls of rice flour, a piece of butter the size of an egg, 4 oz. of loaf sugar, peel of half a lemon, i pint of cream, i oz. of bitter and sweet almonds mixed. _ Boil a pint of cream with 3 large spoonfuls of rice flour mixed smooth m a little of the cream, 4 oz. of powdered sugar, and a piece of butter the size of an egg. When thick, set it to cool, and then stir in the yolks of 6 eggs, the grated lemon peel, and the almonds blanched and pounded in