462 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. thing should be prepared an hour before it is wanted, and placed near the fire or upon a stove; the flour thoroughly dried and warmed; the cun-ants, sugar, carraway seeds, and anything else required, treated in the same way. Butter and eggs should be beaten in basins fitted into kettles, or pans of warm water, which will give them the requisite degree of temperature. Without these precautions, cakes will be heavy, and the best materials, with the greatest pains, will fail to produce the desired results. The following directions should also be strictly attended to :— Currants should be nicely washed, dried in a cloth, and then set before a fire. Before they are used, a dust of fine flour should be thrown among them, and a shake given to them, which causes the cakes to be lighter. Eggs should be very long beaten, whites and yolks apart, and always strained. Sugar should be pounded in a mortar, or rubbed to a powder on a clean board, and sifted through a very fine hair or la™ sieve. Lemon-peel should be pared very thin, and with a little sugar, beaten in a marble mortar to a paste, and then mixed with a little wine or cream, so as to divide easily among the other ingredients. The pans should be of earthenware; nor should eggs, or butter, and sugar be beaten in tins, as the coldness of the metal will prevent them from becoming light. Use no flour but the best superfine; for if the flour be of inferior quality, the cakes will be heavy, ill-coloured, and unfit to eat; but if a little potato flour be added, it will improve their lightness. Cakes are frequently rendered hard, heavy, and uneatable by misplaced economy in eggs and butter, or for want of a due seasoning in spices and sugar. After all the articles are put into the pan, they should be thoroughly and long beaten, as the lightness of the cake depends much on their being well incorporated. Unless you are provided -ivith proper utensils as well as materials, the difficulty of making cakes will be so great as in most instances to be a failure. Accuracy in proportioning the ingredients is almost indispensable; and therefore scales, weights, and measures, down to the smallest quantity, are of the utmost import- ance. When yeast is used, a cake should stand for some time to rise before it is put into .the oven. All stiff cakes should be beaten with the hand ; but pound and similar cakes should be beaten with a whisk or spoon. • Madeira Cake.—Whisk 4 fresh eggs until they are as light as possible; then, continuing still to whisk them, throw in, by slow degrees, the following ingredients in the order in which they are ™tten :—Six oz. of dry, pounded, and sifted sugar \ 6 oz. of flour, also dry and sifted; 4 oz. of butter just dissolved, but not heated ; the rind of a fresh lemon ; and the instant before the cake is moulded, beat well in the third of a tea- spoonful of carbonate of soda. Bake it an hour in a moderate oven.