THINGS A LADY WOULD LLKE TO LCNOW. 310 DESSERT FOR THE MONTH OF OCTOBER. Flowers in the centre. 1. Preserved Golden Pippins. 2. Compote of Siberian Crabs. 3. Meringues Ordinaires. 4. Quince Paste. 5. Biscuits aux Avellines. 6. POMMES A L’ALLEMANDE. Walnuts, Grapes, Filberts, Apples, PeapvS. I. PRESERVED GOLDEN PIPPINS. Pare, core, quarter, and boil to a pulp with water a quart of golden pippins; pass them through a jelly bag. Boil the rind of a Seville orange in plenty of water until it is quite soft, slice it, and add it to your apple pulp. Peel and core 12 choice pippins. Boil down 2 lbs. of loaf sugar with a little water, skim it, and put in your pippins; boil pretty fast until the sugar is almost a candy, then add the jelly and orange-peel; squeeze in the juice of a lemon. Simmer all till the syrup looks clear, and put it into a mould or into pots to keep. 2. COMPOTE OF SIBERIAN CRABS. Strip your fruit from the stalks, weigh it, and for i lb. of crabs boil together a tea-cupful each of juice of a lemon, and bake them until they form a pulp; add to them their weight of loaf sugar, place them in a preserving-pan, and do them over a clear fire until they are ex- ceedingly thick. Make them into lozenges, or dry them slowly in small moulds. Sift sugar over them to keep. 3. MERINGUES ORDINAIRES. Beat the whites of 8 eggs until they are a very stifi' froth, then mix with them 8 oz. of pounded and sifted white sugar. When quite a smooth paste, place spoonfuls of it upon sheets of paper rubbed t\-ith a little oil or butter; put them quickly into the oven; and directly they are sufficiently set, retire them and press the back of a spoon upon the under side of each, so as to make them hollow in the middle ; replace them in the oven, and when they are perfectly firm take them out Let them grow cold, and fill them with marmalade fruit jelly or whipped cream ; fasten two together by moistening the edges with white of egg ; rub the outsides also with the egg, roll them in gifted loaf sugar, and let them dry in an airy place.