THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. i8 GENERAL REMARKS ON THE ART OF COOKING. ‘ Pythree, read H thy right wits.'—Shakspeare. It is a true though trite remark, that ‘ God is the Giver and the devil s the Cook,’ in too many cases; and all for want of attendon to a few general laws, if I may so speak, that rule all good cooking. I have gathered together the following excellent remarks on the various modes of cookery from esteemed authorities, well worthy of study, and from their common sense most practicable. SOUP-MAKING. The chief art in making good soup lies in the judicious blending o the different flavours, so that nothing shall predominate. ^ The scum should be taken off before the soup boils, or it will not be clear. All the fat is to be taken off. . ,, , j Simmer very softly. If soup be suffered to boil quickly, the goodness of the meat can never be extracted. Put the meat into cold water; let it be long on the fire before it comes to a boil; allow about 2 table-spoonfuls of salt to a gaUon of soup, if it have many vegetables ; less, if the vegetables be few. From 4 pints to i quart of water to every pound of meat will make ®°if th^water waste, and more is to be added, use boiling water. Cold or lukewarm water will spoil the soup. Keep the saucepan in which your soup is boiling closely covered, 0 the strength will fly off with the steam. , j * ,.1 ~ Soup will be as good the second day as the first, if heated to the boiling point. It should never be left in the saucepan, but should be turned into a dish or shallow pan, and set aside to get cold. Never rover it up, as that will cause it to turn sour very quickly. Be^^ a second time, remove all the fat from the top. It this be melted in, the flavour of the soup will certainly be spoiled. Thicirened require nearly double the seasoning used for thin souDS or broth. . - , Brown soup is made chiefly of beef; white soup of veal. _ It should be observed, that split peas will not soften m salt hqu , *ere?orif you make yob soup of salt pork or salt beef liquor, it va be necessary to boil the peas by themselves m a small quantity of so t watefuntiUhey are melted l the vegetables meanume wiU be cooking