356 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. dish, intermingling with them a small proportion of fat. A few pieces of veal, with 2 or 3 hard-boiled eggs in quarters, make an agreeable variety in the contents of the pie. Pour over these a little well-seasoned stock 5 cover with a good stout crust, and bake thoroughly. 4. Chocolate Cream.—One bar of chocolate, pints of cream, yolks of 5 eggs, I table-spoonful and a half of good moist sugar. Break a bar of chocolate into small pieces, and pour over them a pint and a half of cream; let it remain until it is dissolved, and then boil it slowly for ten minutes. Well-beat the yolks of 5 eggs with a spoonful and a half of good moist sugar, mix it with the cream, and pour it into cups. Stand them in a stewpan of boiling water, which must only cover half way to the edge of the cup, and let them remain simmering twenty minutes with the cover of the stewpan kept on. When done, place them in a very cold place. Milk may be used instead of cream if a less expensive cream is required. DECEMBER 19. *yudge before friendship i then confide till death.'—YoUNG. 1. Fish Stf.w. 3. Ratafia Cream. 2. Giblet Pie. 4- Vegetables. T, Fish Slew.—Take cod, mullet, whiting, turbot, or any other fish you like ; cut them cross-ways, in pieces from 2 oz. to a of a lb. each. Slice 2 good-sized onions, and place them in a stewpan large enough to contain all the fish at the bottom; a shallow pan is best. Add 2 table-spoonfuls of olive oil; fry the onions a light brown; put in the fish with as much warm water as will cover them well, a tea-spoonful of salt, a tea-spoonful of pepper, ^ a bay leaf, the flesh of a peeled lemon cut in dice, 2 tomatoes cut in slices and their seeds removed (when no ripe tomatoes are to be had, bottled tomato sauce will do), 2 small glasses of sherry or other white wine, a few peppercorns, and J a clove of garlic. Set on a fierce fire, and boil very fast for twelve minutes, or till the liquor is reduced to one-third. Then add a table-spoonful of chopped parsley; let it boil one minute longer, and pour it into a dish over slices of bread. 2. GiUel Tie.—After very nicely cleaning duck or goose giblets, stew them with a small quantity of water, onion, black pepper, and a bunch of sweet herbs, till nearly done. Let them grow cold, and if not enough to fill the dish, lay a beef, veal, or 2 or 3 mutton steaks at bottom. Strain the liquor off the stew and bake with the above; and when the pie is baked, pour into it a large tea-cupful of cream. Sliced potatoes added to it eat extremely well.