BILL OF FARE FOR JANUARY, 45 Serve surrounded with any fish sauce that is preferred—not on a napkin. 2. Saddle of Mutton, Roasted.—If wanted to be underdone, will take seven minutes to each lb.; with the gravy in, ten minutes to the lb.; well done, quarter of an hour to the lb. In frosty weather, add a quarter of an hour extra to the joint. The saddle should be hung about ten days. The rump should be split and skewered back on each side; raise the skin and skewer it on again, but take it off a quarter of an hour before serving; dredge it with dry flour; put it into a sheet of paper, thickly spread with sweet dripping. Being broad, it requires a high and strong fire; hang it quite close for twenty minutes, then at a distance till done. A quarter of an hour before, take off the paper; put ^ salt-spoon of salt into a tea-cupful of boiling water, pour it over the mutton, then baste till slightly browned. Pour off the fat, and serve the dripped gravy in the dish. Send to table very hot, and turn out a pot of red currant jelly on glass dish. 5. Baked Rice Pudding.—Put a quart of milk into a baking-dish; wash and pick i tea-cupful of rice, put it in the milk, and add 2 table- spoonfuls of white pounded sugar, half a tea-cupful of minced veal suet, a little nutmeg and salt. Bake for two hours in a slow ovei? JANUARY 18. ' If I am right. Thy grace impart, Still in the right to stay: If I am wrong, oh ! teach my heart To find that better way.'—Pope. 1. Calf’s-head Soup. I 3. Vegetables. 2. Pigeon Pie. | Plum-pudding. 1. Calfs-head Soup,—Boil the head in just enough water to cover it; when tender, remove the bones, cut the meat in small pieces, and season with sweet herbs, cloves, pepper, and salt. Put all back into the pot with the liquor, and thicken it with a little batter; stew gently for an hour; and just as you dish it up, add a glass or two of sherry wine, and the yolks of a few eggs boiled hard. ^ 2. Pigeon Pie. Place at the bottom of a dish a rump-steak well flat- tened and cut to the size; sprinkle a salt-spoonful of mixed salt and soluble cayenne over the steak. Stuffy dozen pigeons with bread-crumbs well mixed with sweet herbs and egg; rub the birds over with fresh butter, and place them on the meat, filling up the spaces with the yolks of eggs boiled hard; when this is done, pour in veal stock till you nearly reach the brim ; put on the top crust, and bake in a slow oven