270 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. pieces about an inch and a half long, and put them into the soup ; add the pulped vegetables; pepper and salt to your taste, and stew it for another half hour, or until the celery is quite tender. When done, serve it with toasted bread cut into small pieces, and put into the tureen. 2. Croqtids of Beef.—Force and braize them, or take any which may be left from dinner; cut them in half or in slices; dip them in batter, and fry them, a nice brown in hot lard; dish them en miroton (in a circle, the half of one overlapping the other), and serve them with fried parsley in the centre, or with peas, French beans, or asparagus peas. 4. Welsh Pudding.—^ lb. of butter gently; beat with it the yolks of 8 and the whites of 4 eggs, 6 oz. of loaf sugar, and the peel of a grated lemon. Put a puff paste into a dish for turning out, pour in the above, and nicely bake it. SEPTEMBER 17. ‘ Some men would like a sprightly companion in marriage, but none a dissipated one; and all of them, to a man, dread a woman of expense.’—James Fok- DYCE, D.D. 1. Baked Haddock. 1 3- Vegetables. 2. Roast Goose. 1 4- Apple Charlotte. 1. Baked Haddock.—Ont haddock, some veal stuffing, bread-crumbs, and I egg. 2. Roast Goose.—picked, drawn, and singed the goose, cut off the head and neck, leaving sufficient skin to tie over the neck- bone. Take off the legs and wings at the first joint Stuff Avith chopped sage and onion, and a few bread-crumbs seasoned with pepper and salt Cut off the end of the vent, and make a slit sufficiently large to admit the rump through, in order to keep the stuffing in. Tie the skin of ffie neck securely to prevent the gravy from running out, and tie a string round the goose over the wings, and another over the legs. Paper the breast for a short time. Rub a few pieces of butter in the shoulders and back, to baste with; but, as it is naturally greasy, it will soon yield sufficient fat for that purpose. It will require full two hours roastmg. It should be well done. Serve it with plenty of gravy and apple sauce. 4 Apple Charlotte.—and cut up 18 good cooking apples; put them into a skillet, with two-thirds their weight of loaf sug^, _the fourth part of a nutmeg, 2 doves, the rind grated and strained juice of 2 lemons, and a wine-glassful of Marsala; boil and stir till in a malade, then rub through a fine sieve. Cut off the ends of .8 Savoy biscuits, butter a plain mould, and stick the biscuits closely round it in