39 BILL OF FARE FOR JANUAR Y. JANUARY lO. ‘ T1 choose time is to save time; and an unseasonable motion is but beating the air'—Bacon. 1. White Soup, 2. Corned Shoulder of Mutton. 3. Mashed Potatoes. 4. Broccoli. 5. Nesselrode Pudding. 1. White Soup.—Take i quart of veal broth, and flavour it with nutmeg, lemon-peel, bay-leaf, etc., to the taste preferred. Strain very carefully into a stewpan, and let it boil; then put in i oz. of sago, and boil gently for hventy minutes. Skim well. Take the yolks of 4 eggs; beat well; add to them a gill of cream or milk; take the stewpan off the fire; stir in the eggs and cream quickly, and serve. Note.—Q2xt must be taken not to allow the eggs to boil, or tlie soup will be curdled and spoilt, 2. Cor7ied Shoulder of Mutton.—A shoulder of mutton, not too fat, well powdered with salt for four days, boiled, and sent to table with plenty of onion sauce, is the thing. 5- Nesselrode Pudding.—Put a pint of new milk, i oz. best isinglass, 2 inches of stick vanilla, 5 oz, loaf sugar, into an enamelled saucepan, and boil gently for ten minutes. Beat the yolks of 6 fresh eggs into the milk while hot, but not boiling; stir over the fire till at boiling heat, then strain into a basin. Cut into ^ inch squares 4 oz. preserved pine- apple, I oz. of angelica, 2 oz. of candied apricots without stones, 2 oz of candied cherries, 2 oz. of orange peel, and i oz. of ginger; pour over the fruit a wine-glassful of either Cura9oa, brandy, or Maraschino, and let It stand half an hour. Beat a pint of double cream to froth, stir it into the custard when nearly cold, put in the fruit, and stir it rapidly for five minutes. Rinse a mould in cold water; put in the pudding, and place it m a pan on and surrounded by rough ice. Stir till it begins to set, to prevent the fruit sinking to the bottom. Let it remain till quite firm, turn it on a glass dish, and serve immediately. JANUARY 11, ‘ The wise andpnident conquer difficulties by daring to attempt Rowe, 1. Haunch of Mutton. 2. Stewed Celery. 3. Mashed Potatoes, 2. Haunch of Mutton.—Order a haunch of South Devon mutton that has been kep, some days, and le, the butcher trim i, for dressl^T; 'ub 4. Broccoli, 5. Marmalade Pudding.