si-3 BILL OF FARE FOR JULY. JULY 2 1. * Love is an image of God, the living esseftce of the divine nature which beams full of all goodness.'—Martin Luther, 1. Lobster Stewed. I 3. Vegetables, 2. Veal Cutlets a la Maintenon. | 4. Fruit Fritters, 1. Lobster Stetved.—Pick the lobster, put the berries into a dish that has a lamp, and rub them down with a bit of butter, 2 spoonfuls of any sort of gravy, i of soy, or walnut ketchup, a little salt and cayenne, and a spoonful of port Stew the lobster cut into bits with the gravy as above. 2. Veal Cutlets h la Mamtenon.—Chop some parsley, mushrooms, and a little shalot, and put into a stewpan with fat bacon cut into dice, and a little butter; pass these over the fire for a few minutes, and put in the cutlets (which should be cut rather thicker than for the last) to stew a short time with the herbs without being allowed to be quite done, and let them cool. Spread over each cutlet, with the herbs and bacon they were done in, seasoned with pepper and salt, to which may be added a few bread-crumbs j fold each up in buttered paper, and broil them over a slow fire. Serve them with m\x^\)xoom, piquant, or Italian sauce in a boat. 4. Fruit Fritters. Make a batter of flour, milk, and eggs, of whatever richness you desire; stir into it either raspberries, currants, or any other firuit. Fry in hot lard the same as pancakes. —0—• JULY 2 2. ‘ Duties are ours ; events are God’s.'—Cecil. 1. Red Mullets. 2. Roast Goose. 3. Vegetables. 4. Fritters of Pine Apple. 1. Red Mullets. Take 3 red mullets, place them in a tin in the oven, with 4 spoonfuls of anchovy sauce, a little pepper, and salt. Put into a deep sautd-pan a table-spoonful of chopped shalot, the same of parsley, the same of chopped mushrooms, 4 table-spoonfuls of claret, a piece of glaze the size of a walnut. Stew them well together. When the fish is baked, pour this sauce over them. ^ 2. Roast Goose.~Uavmg paid due attention to the cleaning, picking and singeing of the bird, let the following stuffing be prepared Two oz. of undressed onions, and i of sage leaves, must be first chopped small; a salt-spoonful of salt, and a third of that quantity of pepper us be mixed with 4 oz. of finely-grated crumbs of bread, the whole