3S3 'PARTY' DINNER FOR JANUARY. on the rinds of the Seville orange and the lemons to extract the essence ; bruise the pine-apple and press out the juice; express and strain the juice of all the oranges and lemons ; put the sugar and the juice into the tea; boil up; skim carefully; add the isinglass, and stir rabidly till it is quite dissolved, then drain through a jelly-bag. Add the spirits and wine; pour the mixture from one basin to another rapidly, to soften the flavour; put it into a quart mould, and let it remain in a cool place till set, or an hour on ice will improve it. Note.—Calf-foot stock may be used. In this case, | oz. of isinglass will be sufficient. 14. Charlotte Russe.—Beat the yolks of 5 fresh eggs, and strain them into ^ a pint of good cream; put this into an enamelled saucepan, and stir over a slow fire till it begins to thicken, but not to boil. Turn it into a basin to get quite cold. Dissolve 5 oz. of loaf sugar and | oz. of the best isinglass in | of a pint of new milk ; add 2 oz. of sweet almonds blanched and pounded to paste, two inches of vanilla, and boil slowly for twelve minutes; then rub through a sieve, and stir it into the eggs while warm; whip | of a pint of cream, and add to the rest; stir till it begins to thicken. Trim off the ends of 18 or 20 new Savoy biscuits ;,rub a plain quart mould with fresh butter; stick the biscuits round in an upright position, close to each other, so as to form a wall (the flat side inwards); place the mould in a pan of ice, pour in the cream, cover over, and let it remain till quite firmly set When about to serve, dip the mould in hot water, wipe off the droppings, and turn out carefully. 15. Italian Cream.—Dissolve | oz. of the best isinglass a;nd 5 oz. of loaf sugar in ^ of a pint of new milk by boiling it slowly for ten minutes; strain it into a basin, and add a pint of rich cream and 35 drops of the essence of vanilla; turn it rapidly with a whisk till it begins to thicken. Dip a mould in cold water, put in the cream, and place it on ice till firmly set Turn out carefully, and serve immediately. 16. Savoury Macaroni.—Blanch 6 oz. of Naples macaroni in 2 quarts of boiling water with a table-spoonful of salt in it; let it remain till cold, then drain on a sieve. Put it into an enamelled saucepan with 2 oz. of butter, and stir over the fire till the butter is absorbed; then add a quart of new milk and simmer very gently till quite tender (about an hour and a half); add a tea-spoonful of flour of mustard, a salt-spoonful of white pepper, the sixth part of a nutmeg grated, a grain of cayenne, 3 oz. of grated Parmesan cheese, and 2 fresh eggs beaten with a gill of thick cream. Place it on a dish, and sift grated Parmesan cheese diickly over (3 oz.); on that lay an oz. of butter in small pieces; bake m a quick oven, or before the fire, till of a pale brown colour (from twelve to fifteen minutes). Serve very hot