THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 262 with. Rub all through a tammy, using between 2 and 3 quarts of broth to moisten the pulp. Let it boil about a quarter of an hour; add the tails cut in two ; colour the soup with some pounded lobster spawn as for sauce, or with a little red beetroot-juice. This is made by rasping or pounding the root, and squeezing the juice through a cloth. Season with salt and a little cayenne, and serve with fried bread cut m dice. Noie.—Y.\i& soup must not boil after the spawn is added. 2. Roast Partridges.—Pick, draw, singe, and clean them the same as fowls Make a slit in the neck and draw out the craw; twist the neck round the wing, and bring the head round to the side of the breast The legs and wings are trussed the same as fowls, only the feet are left on and crossed over one another. Put them down to a clear fire, and baste well with butter. When about half done, dust a little flour over them; let them be nicely browned. They will require to roast from twenty minutes to half an hour each. Serve on toasted bread dipped in the gravy, with gravy and bread sauce. TCalf's Liver i llMode.-K calfs liver, 7 or. of bacoo 4 or. of buter, a bunch of sweet herbs, 2 onions, 6 cloves, i clove of 8“''0. a ca"oi 2 turnips, r wine-glass of brandy, . of wme, . table-spoonful of ^ After well'washing the calfs liver, soak it for a short time in cold water, then wipe it dry, and insert lardoons of bacon in the interior part of the liver; put it into a stewpan “ 2 of butter a small bunch of sweet herbs tied together, half a blade of Ice and a small onion stuck with 6 cloves, and fry it a nice brown; then'add 3 carrots. 2 turnips, an onion cut into wheels class of brMdy, with sufficient water to just cover the whole; baste glass 01 uicuiu^, clTTimer slowly for two hours, frequently with its own gravy, and let it simmer siow y _ When done take out the liver and put it on a dish garnis ^ veaetabies, strain and skim the gravy, add the sauce and glass 0 wine, boil it to the quantity required, pour it over the liver, an serve with 2 large spoonfuls of tar cnLofcream t o of p^eredta^ on a dish with grated sugar between each pancake, sugar and a lemon.