BILL OF FARE FOR JANUARY. 35 take all the meat out of the tail and claws, cut it in small square pieces, and put it aside. Put into a saucepan a spoonful of anchovy- liquor, a spoonful of ketchup, a blade of mace, a bit of horseradish, a gill of gravy, a little butter rolled in flour, just enough to thicken it, and some butter nicely melted. Boil it gently for six or seven minutes; then take out the horseradish, mace, and lemon, squeezing the juice of the latter into the sauce; just simmer it up; then put in your lobster and spawn, and allow it to get hot through. 3. FriedAUerlee.—Chop the remains of the meat to the consistence of sausage-meat; flavour to the taste with dried savoury herbs rubbed fine, nutmeg, ground-pepper, and salt; mix well with the above ingredients the yolks of 2 eggs ; roll into balls and flatten, dip them in the whites of the eggs with bread-crumbs, and fry of a light brown. Serve hot Garnish the dish with parsley. 4. Roast Breast of Vzal and Bacon.—dredged with flour, put it at a little distance from a bright fire, basting it constantly. Pour some good melted butter over it when done, serve a piece of boiled bacon with it, and garnish with cut lemon. 6. Boiled Marmalade Pudding.—Pour some boiling milk over a break* fast-cupful of vermicelli, and let it remain covered for ten minutes ; then mix 1 lb. raisins stoned, 2 table-spoonfuls of marmalade, 3 eggs well beaten, and sugar to taste. Stir all well together, put all into a buttered mould, boil for one and a half hours, and serve 7. Custard Sauce for which put ^ pint milk in a clean saucepan, and let it boil. Beat 2 eggs, stir to them the milk and 3 oz. of pounded sugar, and put the mixture into a jug, which place in a sauce- pan of boiling water, stirring well till it thickens; but do not let it boil, or It will curdle. Serve in a tureen, stir in i table-spoonful of brandy! and grate a little nutmeg over the top. with JANUARY 6. Walk in felt shoes to do a good action.’ 1. Remains of Turbot. 2. Staffordshire Beefsteaks. 3- Mashed Potatoes. 4. Stewed Apples. 5. Custard.