229 BILL OF FARE FOR AUGUST. 2 oz. of butter j 2 lumps of sugar ; 5 pints of clear soup, or medium stock. Weigh f Ib. of the above-named vegetables, and cut them into strips of about an inch and a half long, taking care they are all the same size; wash them in cold water, and drain them very dry; then put them into a stewpan with the butter, and the sugar pounded. Set it over a quick fire for a few minutes, tossing them over frequently until they are covered with a thin glaze, but on no account allow the vegetables to burn ; then add 5 pints of clear soup, or medium stock ; cut the lettuce, sorrel, and chervil into pieces, and put them into the soup, and let it all stew gently for an hour or more. 2. Roast Loi7i of Mzdton.—Roast it at a bright fire, and baste carefully about every quarter of an hour. Brown and froth. 3. Grouse.—WAX require at least fifteen minutes’ roasting before & bright fire , these birds, if in good condition, do not require any addition to their own exquisite flavour, except a little gravy and a squeeze of lemon. 5. Hasty Puddmg.—^t\. some milk on the fire, and when it boils put in a little salt, and stir in by degrees as much flour as will make it of a proper thickness \ let it boil quickly a few minutes, beating it constantly while on the fire; pour it into a.dish, and eat it with cold butter and sugar, or treacle. Eggs may be used with it if preferred. —0— AUGUST 6. ‘ Love is Slick an affection, as cannot so properly be said to be in the soul as the soul to be in I'/iaZ.’—Bishop South. 1. Stewed Conger. | 3. Vegetables. 2. Rolled Loin of Mutton. | 4. Norwich Pudding. 1. Stewed Conger.—K conger eel, a bunch of sweet herbs, i onion, pepper, salt, and mace, water or broth, a little flour. Cut the conger into pieces as for frying, dry and flour the pieces, and brmvH them in a frying-pan. Put them into a stewpan with a bunch of veet herbs, an onion cut in quarters, seasoning of pepper and salt, and Of spice, if It be liked, and enough water or broth nearly to c'over the VIA fiour, just enough to take off the richness that may have risen to ne top, and serve the conger with the gravy round it. saur. be flavoured with tomatoes, chutney, or any other .a. r* Vhe stewed conger is nice with oysters; open them and save as nilessarv'let' ^t li't T “ “ ^ravi, as much them ““"Si’