345 BILL OF FARE FOR DECEMBER. DECEMBER 7. ‘ In such a world so thorny, and where none Finds happiness unblighted; or, if found, I Vithout some thistly sorrow at its side. It seems the part of wisdom, and no sin ylgainst the laws of love, to measure lots With less distinguished than ourselves, that thus We may with patience bear our mod rate ills. And sympathize with others suffering more.'—COWPER. 1. Perch. 3. Hasty Fritters. 2. Mutton Cutlets a la Jardi- 4. Vegetables. NIERE. 1. Perch.—Scale (which is a troublesome operation with perch, ren- dering the fishmonger’s assistance acceptable) and empty them. Mari- nade them several hours in a mixture of olive oil, parsley, pepper, salt, and sweet herbs minced very fine. When wanted, smear them with egg, and sprinkle them well with a mixture of grated crumb of stale bread and fine-minced sweet herbs. Broil them over a gentle fire until thoroughly done and nicely yellow-browned on both sides. If any sauce is served with them it should be of the simplest, as a little lemon-juice, or oiled butter with a dash of vinegar. 2. Mutton Cutlets a la Jardiniere.—Boil in stock or good mutton broth some fresh haricots, green peas, sprigs of cauliflower, all sorts of roots cut into short lengths or punched into shapes, with a few mush- rooms. When cooked, throw them into a stewpan in which you have made a roux, and let them simmer. Meanwhile, fry your cutlets in butter; arrange them on a hot dish, and pour over them your ragout of vegetables. Of course, you can only employ such vegetables as take the same time to cook; any others must be cooked apart, as also should potatoes, if used. 3. Hasty Fritters.—Take pint of ginger beer, and stir into it by degrees as much flour as will make it a stiff batter; put in a few currants or chopped apples; beat up quickly, and fry in butter j drop a large spoonful for each into the pan, taking care that they do not stick together; turn them, and when of a fine brown, lay on a dish, and strew sugar over.