I So THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 4. Boiled Arrowroot Pudding.—"Siti a pint of milk on the fire; mix 2 oz. of arrowroot with a little cold milk quite smooth, like starch; when the milk is near boiling, pour it upon the arrowroot, sttrtmg all the time; return it into the pan, and set it on the fire a few minutes to thicken stirring it briskly, but do not let it boil; when cold add 3 eggs well n„ien and a little salt; boil it an hour in a buttered basin. Serve with melted butter and currant jelly. 6. Strawberry Cream and Tartlets.—K quart of cream will be required for two pottles of strawberries; the small pines should be selected, as possessing most flavour. Carefully pick away the leaves and stalks and mash up the fruit in a basin; boil the cream, and add the fruit whilst i remains hot; sweeten with powdered sugar to your taste; let it become quite cold before you put it into glasses. JUNE 18. * One's thoughts are heard in heaven.'— 4. Vegetables. 5. Arrowroot Pudding. 1. Flounders. 2. Parsley and Butter. 3. Green Goose. I. Floimders.—Lei the fish be carefully cleaned, the fins cut off, then washed, and well dried in a cloth; put a handful of salt “to the water in which they are boiled; the time they take must be regulated by their size and thickness; serve them with parsley and butter. ^ _ 3 Green Instead of the stuffing of sage and onions given to the more mature bird, bread-crumbs mixed with pepper and salt are used. Three-quarters of an hour’s roasting will be sufficient. Send it to table with a boat of gravy, another of apple sauce, and some ne^% }- "^^flTZtot Pudding.-To a pint of boiling milk add 2 oz. rooi, previously mixed smooth with a little cold milk; set it on the fire to boil, constantly stirring it; when cool, add 3 almonds blanched and beaten, lemon-peel, and sugar; bake in a mo .. rate oven. -0— JUNE 19. ‘ One always has time enough, if one will apply it Goethe. -D 1 4. Blanc Mange. I. Scotch Barley Broth. i ^ 2. Leg of Mutton Farced. 3. Bakewell Pudding. 5. Vegetables. SM £roi;,.-nroy, the ^ when thoroughly cleansed, place it with a knuckle of veal m a steupan