3 = 7 BILL OF FARE FOR NO VEMBER. NOVEMBER 20. ' LiR is a short day ; but it is a working day. Activity may lead to evil, but inactivity ca7inot be led to good.’—H. More. 1. Prince Arthur’s Soup. 3. Beetroot and Onion. 2. Roast Leg of Mutton. 4. Baked Codling Pudding. I. Prince Arthur's Soup.—Twelve turnips, i lump of sugar, 2 spoon- fuls of strong veal stock, salt and white pepper to taste, 2 quarts of very- bright stock. Peel the turnips, and with a cutter cut them in balls as round as possible, but very small; put them in the stock, which must be very bright, and simmer till tender. Add the veal stock and seasoning. Have little pieces of bread cut round, about the size of a shilling; moisten them with stock; put them in a tureen, and pour the soup over without shaking, for fear of crumbling the bread, which would spoil the appearance of the soup, and make it look thick. To clarify Stock.—The whites of 2 eggs, pint of water, 2 quarts of stock. Supposing that by some accident the soup is not quite clear, and that its quantity is 2 quarts, take the whites of 2 eggs carefully separated from their yolks, whisk them well together with the water, and add gradually the 2 quarts of boiling stock, still whisking. Place the soup on the fire, and when boiling and well-skimmed, whisk the eggs with it till nearly boiling again ; then draw it from the fire and let it settle till the whites of the eggs become separated. Pass through a fine cloth, and the soup should be clear. Note. The rule is, that all clear soups should be of a light straw colour. 3- Beetroot and Onion.—A root of beet well boiled, and its outside coat taken off, served to table with a Spanish onion boiled, are admir- able accompaniments to either beef or mutton roasted. If cream can be readily procured, stew the onion in it; the beetroot requires only plain boiling. These vegetables should be eaten with a little salt and soluble cayenne, with the gravy of the joint poured over them. In dressing them, you can judge by the outside skin of the beetroot being easily detached, and from the softness the onion attains either in water or cream. 4. Baked Codling Puddmg.—^oz.'iX 6 large codling apples, take out the pulp; beat up yolks of 8 and whites of 4 eggs; add ^ lb. of pow- ered white sugar, the same weight of clarified butter, the juice of a lemon, its rind cut very small, i oz. of candied orange and lemon peel cut into small portions, a wine-glass of brandy, and the crumb of a i^rench roll finely grated. Mix up these ingredients well together.