176 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. kettle, make a couple of incisions half-way down to the bone, upon the back of the fish. This will prevent the cracking of the skin, as the fish swells in hot water. Fill your kettle three parts with cold water, and then throw in a liberal handful of salt; place the turbot upon a tin or earthenware strainer, and put it into the water; as it begins to boil take off the scum, and then set your kettle by the side of the fire, so that the water boils very slowly for twenty minutes or a quarter of an hour, according to the size of your fish. A turbot of 9 lbs. will require at least twenty minutes, and so in proportion. Take it out of the water very carefully, and place it on a coarse cloth ; then cover the dish you mean to send to table with a napkin, place the turbot upon it, strew whole capers over it, and serve with lobster sauce and slices of lemon. You may, if you prefer it, strew the fish with the pea of lobster forced through a sieve. 2. Pigeons.—^These birds cannot be dressed too fresh; let them be stuffed with chopped parsley and seasoned bread-crumbs, roast for five- and-twenty minutes, and serve with gravy sauce. 3. Loin of Miction en Fricandeaii.—Trim and lard a loin of mutton and braize it, or put the trimmings of the mutton into a stewpan that will hold the loin, with some beef and veal; on this place the loin, also a few carrots, onions, and a bunch of sweet herbs; cover with broth, and stew gently until done 3 drain, and glaze the loin well. 4. Baked Batter Pudding with irz/zV.—This pudding is very good baked with fresh fruits, adding 4 spoonfuls of cream and a tea-spoonlul of powdered ginger. JUNE 14. ‘ The consiitution of the female mind shows that loving obedience is her prescribed course. Her happiness is never to be found in assuming the reins, or striving to com- mand.'—W. B. Mackenzie. 1. Grey Mullet. 4- Batter Pudding with Eggs. 2. Brown Minced Veal. 5- Vegetables. 3. Pigeon Pie. I. Grey Mullet.—?vX this fish into cold water and bring gradually to a boil, if very large j if the fish is small, put it in boiling water. In either case, to each gallon of water put ^ lb. of salt Serve with plain melted butter and anchovy sauce. 2 Brown Minced Veal.—Cut the meat off the bones, and put them into a saucepan with a quart of water; stew till you have about ^ pint of liquor left. Whilst the gravy is drawing, chop the meat, both fat and lean, small; season with pepper and salt, the juice of a lemon, and