344 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. together. Season to your taste with pepper and salt. Let it boil slowly for five or six hours, adding the ketchup. When done, take out the herbs, and serve the vegetables in the soup. It is always better (as all soups are) made the day before it is wanted. 2. Roast Snipes.—Pluck and wipe them very clean outside; truss them, with the legs close to the body, the feet pressing upon the thighs; skin the head and neck, and bring the beak round under the mng. They must be trussed without being drawn. Tie a thin layer of bacon over them; put 3 or 4 of them, skewered, on to a spit or jack, and roast before a clear fire for about a quarter of an hour to twenty minutes; baste continually with butter, with some bread toasted and buttered, placed underneath for the trail to drop on. When the birds are nicely floured and frothed, cut the toast in quarters; put the birds on it, with the bills outwards. Garnish with slices of lemon, and pour some good brown gravy round the dish. Be particular in basting that the butter should drip on to the toast and trail, as it is considered a deli- cacy. A piece of toast, with the trail equally spread on it, should be placed under each bird, and served with it to each person. 3. Beefsteak Pudding.—Rub ^ lb. of dripping, or lard, or suet into lbs. of flour, with a pinch of salt, and make it into a stiff paste wth as little water as possible; then, having greased the inside of your basin, lay a thin crust over the same, except just the bottom, as it will else absorb all the gravy; now have ready some pieces of steak or beef- skirt, well seasoned with pepper and salt; put a piece of fat at the bottom, then lay in all your meat; after which, pour in about a tea- cupful of broth or water, then moisten the edges of the crust round the basin, and lay on a cover of the remainder of the paste, pinching the two edges together; dip your cloth in hot water, flour it well, and tie it tightly over the pudding. Put it into a saucepan of boiling water; make it boil up quickly, and keep it boiling from three to four hours. 4. Plum-Pudding.—An excellent pudding can be made from the following ingredients :—Half a lb. of flour, | lb. of grated bread, a lb. of currants well washed and dried, a lb. of raisins well stoned and cut, tlie peel of a lemon finely chopped, oz. of mixed spice, i oz. of butter, 2 oz. of sweet almonds cut small, 6 oz. of candied orange, lemon, and citron peel, 4 eggs, a tea-spoonful of salt, 2 of sugar, and 3 wine-glasses of brandy. Mix all these together well, adding as much milk as neces- sary to make the mixture a proper consistency. Boil in a melon-shaped mould for eight hours. Sauce for Plum-Pudding.—Into i pint of thick melted butter put a table-spoonful of powdered sugar, a quarter of a nutmeg grated, a tea- spoonful of lemon-syrup, 2 glasses of Madeira and one of CuraQoa; stir all well together, and pour it quite hot over the pudding.