175 BTLL OF FARE FOR JUNE. pudding; beat all together till thoroughly blended, then put into a buttered mould or basin, and boil for two hours. Serve with sweet sauce. —0— JUNE 12. ‘ Beware of entrance into quarrel.'—Shakspeare. r. Fish Salad. I 3. Bread Hasty Pudding. 2. Sweetbreads with Peas. 4. Vegetables. ' » 1. Fish Salad may be made with the remains of turbot. Cut the fish into very thin slices; have also 2 young cos lettuces, which separate into leaves and cut lengthwise; add a few leaves of tarragon, a little chervil; season with a little pepper and salt, 6 or 8 spoonfuls of salad oil, and 2 of vinegar, or according to taste; mix well together, turn into a salad bowl, and serve. The above salads are excellent for dinner upon a hot summer's day. 2. Sweetbreads with Peas. — Put 3 heart sweetbreads into warm water, to disgorge the blood, and make them as white as possible; blanch them firm, and braize them. When done, take them up and mask them with some good white bechamel. Cut some French beans, boiled nice and green, into leaves and stalks; make a border round each sweetbread with them, and a neat sprig in the middle; put them into a stewpan, as they are done, to keep hot; when wanted, cover the bottom of the dish with young peas or asparagus, and the sweetbreads on diem. Garnish with sippets of fried bread. 3. Bread Hasty Piiddmg.—^t\. a quart of new milk on the fire, and when scalding hot put in grated bread, till it is about the thickness of common hasty pudding. Beat the yolks of 2 eggs with a little salt; take out a few spoonfuls of the milk before you put in the bread, to mix with them; then put it to the bread and stir it over the fire two or three minutes. It must not be suffered to boil. Eat with sugar and cold butter. It is very good without the eggs. JUNE 13. ‘ All love is sweet, given or returned.'—Shelley. I- Turbot. 2. Pigeons. 3- Loin of Mutton en Fricandeau, 4. Baked Batter Pudding WITH Fruit. 5. Vegetables. • hours before you intend to cook it, let it be put in 0 fresh spring water; and just as you are about to put it into the