5o6 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. decay; m dry soils we have known them stand for years, with a ridae ot dry ashes placed over the rows; it is a long time before a conical row of such dry ashes gets wet through. Let the stems be cut off from the beds or patches of Japan Lilies, and then cover them with about four inches of decayed leaves: a similar covering should be put over die beds of Alstroemerias. Dahlia roots will now be matured, and may be carefully lifted, taking care to secure the labels to the roots with wire; lay them out to dry previous to storing them away tor the winter and if a sharp frost comes before they can be lifted, place a little earth round the stem, that the buds at the top of the bulb may not be injured. Plant Tulips, and finish off the planting of Turban Ranunculus, Hyacinths, Narcissus, Crocus, Jonquil, and Scilla; choose the warmest and most sheltered situations for the Hyacinths, and they will well repay any extra care. Put a little heap of finely-sifted coal-ashes over plants of doubtful hardiness, such as Salvia Patens, Tagetes Lucida, and Fuchsias : if neatness and efficacy are to be combined, nothing answers better than a thin layer of green moss; it requires a sharp continued frost to get through it. Bedding plants in store pots will require constant attention paid to the removal of decayed foliage, and a free circulation of air; a shelf near the glass in a heated pit or greenhouse is about the best place for them, but the difficulty is to get such a position for the myriads now required. Great care must be exercised in watering, as they must neither be allowed to get dry, nor yet be saturated; when water is necessary, if the drainage is good, give them enough to wet the soil, and then wait till they require it again; never water at this season unless absolutely necessary, or unless early in the forenoon, and let it always be a few degrees warmer than the temperature of the house. When such plants are kept in cold frames and pits, it is well to take out a pot when dry, water, and allow it to drain before replacing it; damp in such cases is as injurious as cold. In watering all houses, let as little be spilled as possible, as, unless where a high temperature is kept, and the air, as in severe frost, is exceedingly dry, we must neutralize the in general too great dampness of the atmosphere in places where little or no artificial heat is given. Continue to plant Roses of all the hardy sorts, and let them be well mulched with rotten manure after planting. Alterations in pleasure-grounds must be vigorously followed up in favourable weather. DECEMBER. Beds of Roses, both standards and dwarfs, should be well dressed with good decomposed stable manure. Tenderer varieties in open beds, particularly tea-scented, may with great advantage be carefully lifted