329 BILL OB BABjE BOR IVOVEMBEIC. the dripping pan, and when the bird is roasted, place it on the prepara- tion, and surround it Avith Florida oranges. 2. Vea/ Curry.—Cut a Spanish onion, or two small ones, into very small pieces, and a large sour apple into thin slices; put them into a steAvpan Avith the butter, and stir it about until lightly browned. Then mix in the curry poAvder, the flour, and a pint of water j add the veal cut into very small square pieces, seasoned Avith salt, and stir it round several times, that it may be well covered with the curry mixture. Put it over the fire to steAv sloAvly for an hour and a half, or until the veal is tender. Squeeze in the juice of half a lemon strained, stir it round, and serve with rice in a separate dish. 3. Baked Apple and Almond Pudding.—Quarter of a lb. of SAveet almonds and lb. of loaf sugar; pound all well together, then add the well- beaten yolks of 6 eggs. Grate the peel of i lemon, add the juice of it and I table-spoonful of flour. Mix Avell all together ; whip the whites of the 6 eggs to a stiff froth, and mix them with the other ingredients before baking. Pour the whole upon a thick layer of stewed apples already prepared in a baking-tin, and bake in a moderate oven until brown. ‘Avoid all affectation and singularity. What is accordin" to nature is best, and •what is contrary to it is always distasteful. Nothing is graceful that is not our own.'— Jeremy Collier. 1. Quails.—Take a steAvpan and put into it 2 oz. of fresh butter; prepare spring onions, say a dozen, as for salad, and fry them, dusting in a little flour in the steAvpan, till they are nicely browned, then add a Avine-glassful of stock or water, and the same quantity of Avhite wine; let it come to the boil, then put in 4 quails, adding a little chopped parsley, a bay leaf, 3 cloves, and 6 more onions; stew till the birds are sufficiently done. Dish the quails, strain the gravy and pour over; garnish with toasted sippets. 2. Beefsteak Budding.—One lb. of flour, 6 oz. of finely-chopped beef suet, I a tea-spoonful of salt, and ^ a pint of cold Avater. Mix tlie whole into a smooth, firm paste. Take | of this paste, mould it into a ball, and then Avith a rolling-pin roll it out sufficiently large to line pint basin, previously Avell greased or buttered. Next, season about i-i- lb. of tender steak, free from bone, with ^ oz. of salt, and nearly oz^. of black pepper. Lay the steak in the basin in neat pieces, Avith a table-spoonful of walnut or mushroom ketchup, and a | of a pint of 0— NOVEMBER 23 1. Quails. 2. Beefsteak Pudding. 3. Rice Dumplings. 4. Vegetables.