THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 3 = JANUARY 3. ‘ Proportion and propriety are among the best secrets of domestic wisdom; and there is no surer test of integrity than a well-proportioned expenditure.'—More. 1. Gravy Soup. 2. Roast Fowls AND Mashed Pota- toes. 3. Gravy for Fowls. 4. Bread Sauce. 5. Tongue. 6. Apple Fritters. 1. Soup. Put the remaining meat and bones, with 2 lbs. of leg of beef, 2 onions, 2 turnips, i parsnip, 2 carrots, i head of celery, i small tea-cupful of rice, pepper and salt to the taste, and 4 quarts of water, in a stewpan. Simmer all gently for four hours, or till the goodness is drawn from the meat. Strain it, and let it stand till cold. When wanted for use, skim off the fat, and serve with toasted bread. . , 2. Roast Fowls.—or 4 slices of fat bacon, not too thick, may be attached by skewers to your fowl for roasting; it answers all the purpose of larding, and saves the time and trouble required for that operation. The frizzled bacon makes an appropriate garnish for the dish In drawing the fowl, be careful not to break the gall-bag. -> * Gravy for Boil the neck of the fowl, after having cut it small in half a pint of water, with a seasoning of spice and herbs; let it stew very softly for an hour and a half. When the bird is just ready for the table, take the gravy from the drippmg-pan and dram it off the fat; strain the liquor from the neck into it, mixing them smoothly; pass the gravy again through the strainer, heat it, add sea- soning if necessary, and send to table hot. ^ 4. Bread Sauce.—Boil a large onion, cut in four, with some black peppers and milk, till the onion is quite a pap. Pour the milk strained on grated white stale bread, and cover it; in an hour, put it m a sauce- pan with a good piece of butter mixed with a little flour; boil the whole up together, and serve. t. Tonnie.—Put the tongue into cold water, enough to well cover it, boil up slowly, and skim ; simmer very gently till done. A la^e tongue will require six hours, a small one from four to five. Take off the skin, trim the fat, and cut off the rough part of the root To keep it a good shape, it should be sewn with a broad strip of calico to a straight board about the length of the tongue. _ 6. Apple Fritters.—and core, without dividing the apples, slice