SSG THINGS A LADY V/OULD LIKE TO KNOIV. of a lb. of veal suet, scrape an oz. of lean ham, boil 3 fresh eggs twelve mushroom chopped, ^ a lettuce, 2 cloves, a small blade of mace, 4 allspice, a salt-spoonful of salt, | a salt-spoonful of pepper, a tea- spoonful of moist sugar, and f of a pint of water; cover the larding with writing paper, thickly spread with butter; simmer as gently as possible lor three hours ; take off the paper, baste the veal, and continue to simmer halt an hour longer. Take out the veal; skim off all the fat; and rub the gravy and vegetables through a hair sieve; add a table- spoonful of French brandy, or a wine-glassful of sherry, and serve the gravy over the veal. 6. Croquets of Fowl with Piquant Sauce.—Rub 2 oz. of fresh butter into 6 oz. of dried flour; beat the yolks of 2 fresh eggs with 4 table- spoonfuls of cold water, and stir into the flour till in a stiff paste ; knead till quite smooth, roll it out twice, then let it stand in a cool place for five or six hours. Cut up about ^ a lb. of cold fowl (roast or boiled) free from skin ; put the bones and trimmings into a saucepan, with a piece of garlic the size of a pea, and ^ a pint of water, and stew for gravy; pound the fowl to paste; add 2 oz. of either ham, hung beef, or tongue, pounded; season with the sixth part of a nutmeg grated, ^ a salt-spoonful of white pepper, the grated rind of a ^ of a lemon, ^ a salt-spoonful of flour of mustard, and a J of a salt-spoonful of salt; add sufficient gravy to moisten. Continue to pound till all the ingredients are well mixed, roll out the paste the eighth of an inch thick ; divide it into eight equal- sized pieces, about three inches square ; brush over the surface with cold water; put an eighth part of the pounded meat into each piece, in the form of a sausage; fold the paste over; press the edges to make them adhere; then fry in plenty of boiling lard or clarified dripping (i lb.) till of a yellow-brown colour (about ten minutes); drain on a sieve before the fire, and serve on a neatly-folded napkin, with or without fried parsley in the centre. 7. Curried Lobster with /?/<:<?.—Take the meat from the shell of 2 mode- rate-sized fresh hen lobsters; cut it into half-inch square pieces; chop quite small a good-sized onion ; knead 2 table-spoonfuls of curry powder and a dessert-spoonful of baked flour with 3 oz. of fresh butter. Fry the onion and butter together till nicely browned; stir in a gill of cocoa- nut milk, or thin cream ; put in the lobster, and stir for eight minutes, add a salt-spoonful of salt and the strained juice of a lemon. Serve on a bed of rice. Well wash and boil \ a lb. of the best rice in a quart of water for twenty minutes; drain on a sieve, and separate each grain with a wooden fork; place the rice on the dish in the form of a we , put the lobster in the centre, and serve with mixed pickles or chutney Ca/>on.—ScTape i a lb. of lean veal from the fillet, chop a