^93 BILL OF FARE FOR OCTOBER. and a quarter; rub them through a coarse sieve into a dish; stir in an oz. of butter, a spoonful of salt, and a few drops of soluble cayenne; beat up the yolks of a couple of eggs, and mix these well with the peas, etc. Tie up the pudding in a well-floured cloth as tightly as you can, and give it another hour’s boiling. 4. Apple and Ctistard Pajicake.—Pare and slice some apples thin; fry them in good butter; beat 4 eggs with 6 spoonfuls of cream, some rose- water, sugar, and nutmeg; stir them together, and pour over the apples ; fry a nice brown, then turn it carefully. Serve with fine sugar sifted over. OCTOBER 13. *Natu7-e is mighty. Art is mighty. Artifice is weak.'—AUGUSTUS Hare. 1. Soup. 3. Vegetables. 2. Roast Sucking Pig. 4. Soufflee Pudding. 1. Soup.—Pour 2 quarts of medium or common stock over the bones and remains of any cold game (as pheasants, partridges, etc.), and sliced vegetables, 2 small onions, 2 carrots, i turnip, r head of celery. Simmer all for two hours. Skim off all fat, and strain it. Have ready washed | lb. of pearl barley, which has been previously boiled in 2 or 3 waters, put it in the soup, and finish simmering in it; and when the barley is done, take out half, and pound the other half with the yolks of 3 hard-boiled eggs. Rub it through a clean tammy when pounded ; add I pint of cream, salt if required; put in the barley that was taken out first, boil up once, and serve very hot. 2. Roast Sucking Fig.—An oz. and a half of onion finely chopped, 2 oz. of sage leaves cut small, must be mixed in 5 oz. of finely powdered bread-crumbs, the yolk of egg, and a spoonful of salt, and a third of one of soluble cayenne pepper; fill the belly with the stuffing, and sew it up. As the extremities will require more fire than the middle, hang a flat- iron in the centre of your grate, and be sure to have a fine brisk fire for roasting: an hour and a half will be time sufficient. Baste with fresh butter, or best Florence oil. The most rigid attention must be paid to the pig whilst roasting; if left for a second, it may be blistered or burnt, and very soon spoiled for the table. About ten minutes before the time allowed for cooking has elapsed, cut off the head, the body still remain- ing before the fire. Split the skull in half, take out the brains, and beat them up finely with a dozen sap leaves, previously boiled and chopped small; this can be moistened into sauce with the juices that followed me cutting off of the head, if the cook has been prudent enough to place a basin under the neck. Split the body down the back; lay the sides