447 RECEIPTS TOR SAUCES. gradually. Do not let it boil, and serve directly it is ready; or if bottled immediately, it will keep good for a fortnight. German Pudding Sauce (a delicious).—Dissolve from 3 to 4 oz. of fine sugar in half a pint of Madeira or sherry, but do not let the wine boil \ stir it hot to the well-beaten yolks of 6 fresh eggs, and mill or whisk the sauce over a gentle fire until it is well-thickened and highly frothed. Pour it over a plum, or any kind of s (veet boiled pudding, of which it much improves the appearance. Half the quantity is sufficient for one of moderate size. The addition of a dessert-spoonful of strained lemon-juice to the wine is a great improvement. Note.—The Germans use a small mill—like a chocolate mill—to froth their sauces. It may be had at a very trifling cost; or, on an emergency, 2 silver forks fastened together at the handles may be used instead. Care must be taken that these sauces do not curdle. It is safer to put any preparations of this kind into a white jar, placed over the fire in a pan of boiling water, and to stir {one way) or mill it till sufficiently thickened. The jar should not be half filled, and be large enough to allow the sauce to be worked easily. The water should not reach to within two or three inches of the brim. A German Sauce.—This is a general favourite for made dishes. Put ^ pint of sauce tournee into a stewpan, heat it, and stir to it the beaten yolks of 2 eggs, which have been' previously strained. Let it just simmer, but not boil, or the eggs will curdle; and after they are added to the sauce, stir one way without ceasing. This sauce is used for many made dishes. Gooseberry Sauce for a large Dish of Boiled Mackerel.—May to July.— Boil till tender a pint of green gooseberries in water, then strain and rub them through a sieve (they should boil from twenty minutes to half an hour); put 3 table-spoonfuls of Bechamel (or good veal gravy) and 2 oz. of fresh butter into a saucepan, with pepper, grated nutmeg, and salt to taste; mix all these well together with the pulp of the goose- berries, and heat gradually through. It is considered an improvement to add a little pounded sugar to this sauce. Green Sauce for Ducklings or Green Geese.—From June to August.— Boil half a pint of green gooseberries in water until quite tender; mash and press them through a sieve; put the pulp into a saucepan with i tea-spoonful of pounded sugar, pint of sorrel juice, i oz. of fresh butter, I glass of sherry. Simmer for three or four minutes, and serve very hot. Horseradish Grate very small a stick of young horseradish; then, with a couple of table-spoonfuls of it, mix a small tea-spoonful of salt^ and 4 table-spoonfuls of cream ; stir it briskly, and add by degrees a wine-glassful of vinegar. Excellent to serve with cold roast beef.