2o6 27IIjVGS a lady WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. pint of milk and put to it, let it stand till cold, sweeten it with white sugar, and add 2 spoonfuls of rose-water mixed with 4 eggs well beaten ; beat all together till it is a fine batter ; butter a wooden dish and put in the batter, dredge a little flour on the top, tie a cloth over, and boil an hour. JULY IS. There is small chance of truth at the goal, where there is not a childlike humility at the Coleridge. 1. Celery Soup. 2. Minced Veal. 3. Vegetables. 4. SouFFLEE Pudding. 1. Celery Soiip.—h-i\.tr cutting your celery into pieces of about an inch long, put it into a stewpan of boiling water, seasoned with a little salt and°sugar 3 put it over a clear fire, and when very tender take out the celery and pulp it through a sieve; add it to the stock, and let it stew slowly for nearly three-quarters of an hour; 4hen stir in a pint of nice firesh cream, make it very hot, but do not let it boil, and serve it in 3, tlirG0Il» 2. Minced Veal.—To have this a white dish, let the cold veal be cut into slices, pare off the brown edges and fat, and then chop the meat into square pieces; flour these well, and put them into a saucepan, with a tea-cupful of cream, the juice of a lemon, a little of die peel chopped very fine a very small quantity of salt, mace, and white pepper \ keep shaking it over the fire, but do not let it boil for more dian a minute, or you will render the meat hard. • x. c 4 Soiifflee Pudding.—NoxY with your hands i lb. of butter with 6 oz. of flour • have i pint of milk boiled, flavour with lemon-peel, and add the milk to the butter and flour ; when this boils, add 6 yolks of eggs, sweeten with pounded loaf sugar; put this by till cold ; then whip up 4 whites of eggs to a strong froth, add to the former mixture; have a Dlain mould papered and ornamented with dried cherries, citron, etc., Ind boil or steam two hours. This pudding will rise 4 times its original height so that great care should be taken to have the mould or stewpan lar|e enough. \et it stand ten minutes before turning it out Ser^-e with brandy sauce.