324 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. NOVEMBER 16, ‘ Toil, feel, think, hope. We are sure to dream enough before we die, without making arrangements for the purpose.'—STIRLING. 1. Macaroni Soup. 3. Pain a la Duchess^ 2. Breslau of Beef. 4. Vegetables. 1. Macaroni Soup.—Break up a lb. of Naples macaroni into inch lengths, and soak it in cold water for half an hour; drain. Put it into a stewpan with 3 pints of boiling hot stock, 2 table-spoonfuls of grated Parmesan cheese (or Stilton), a tea-spoonful of fresh-made mustard, a salt-spoonful of salt, a spoonful of loaf sugar, and simmer gently for an hour, stirring frequently. Add another quart of stock, and a wine-glassful of Marsala. Boil slowly ten minutes longer, and serve, with a separate dish of grated Parmesan or Stilton. 2. Breslau of Beef.—Trim the brown edges from the beef, shred it very small, and mix it with fine bread-crumbs, minced parsley and thyme, the grated lemon-peel, and butter broken into very small pieces ; pour on the mince a cupful of gravy (or, if you have it, a cupful of cream); add the 3 eggs thoroughly beaten. Season it well with pepper, cayenne, salt, and nutmeg, if to your taste. Butter some coffee-cups or the tin cups sold for poaching eggs in, put the Breslau into them, bake it for half an hour, and serve. Garnish with egg-balls, sauce Espagnole, or good gravy. 3. Pain a la Duchesse.—Boil in a quarter of a pint of milk half the rind of a lemon, a small stick of cinnamon, and a bit of butter the size of a nut. Strain it, and set on the fire in a stewpan. When it boils stir in 2 spoonfuls of flour and half a glass of brandy. Take it off and rub it well together. When quite cold, add 4 eggs, one at a time, rubbing well all the while. Divide the mixture into tea-spoonfuls on a plate, let it stand to grow firm, then fry in plenty of boiling lard. NOVEMBER 17. ‘ To cultivate sympathy, you tnust be among living creatures, and thinking about them.'—Ruskin. 1. Guinea Fowl. 3- Charles Douglas Pudding. 2. Round of Boiled Beef. 4. Vegetables. I. Guinea Slices of fat ham should be skewered over this bird whilst roasting, and it should also be plentifully basted, the meat being peculiarly dry. A guinea fowl and pheasant are advantageously dressed together when the latter is in full season.