263 BTLL OF FARE FOR SEPTEMBER. SEPTEMBER 8. "‘Now," is the constant syllable ticking from the clock of time. “Now," is the waichivord of the wise ; “ now," is on the banner of the prudent. Let us keep this little word always in our mind, and whenever anything presents itself in the shape of work, whether mental or physical, we should do it with all our might, remembering that “ now " is the only time for us.’—Dr. Parr. 1. Mulligatawny. 3. Vegetables. 2. Boiled Duck. 4. Rice and Apples. 1. Mulligatawny.—Prepare 2 fowls or rabbits. Use only the prime parts for the soup, cut into moderate-sized pieces. On particular occasions the flesh should be taken from the bones before it is served in the soup. Take 6 or 8 middling-sized onions, peel and chop them rather small; put them into a mortar, with lb. of butter, half a blade of ginger grated, half a nutmeg, and a small tea-cupful of India pickle. Pound the whole well, adding 3 table-spoonfuls of good curry powder and lb. of flour. The addition of a cocoa-nut grated or cut small and pounded with it will much improve the flavour. When reduced to a perfectly smooth paste, take it out into a clean stewpan, place it over the fire, and add gradually 2 quarts of good stock; mix well, and let it be perfectly smooth. Place it on the comer of the stove, to boil gently and throw up the grease; skim well, and add 2 quarts of veal or fowl consomme; pass the sauce through a tammy, or sieve, into a clean stew- pan ; add the prepared members of fowl or rabbit, and let the whole simmer gently for about half an hour. Season with a little salt, and serve with rice. 2. Boiled Duck.—A duck boiled, and smothered in onions, is a delicacy fit for the table of an empress. Twenty minutes is quite sufficient time, and be sure that the onions have been twice boiled before you make them into sauce. 4. Rice and Apples.—Boil the rind of a quarter of a lemon in a quart of milk for a few minutes; take out the peel \ boil 6 oz. of rice (sweetened to taste) till quite soft, then let it cool. Peel, quarter, and core 8 apples in ^ lb. of sugar and \ pint of water, and, when soft, put on a sieve to drain. Then in the centre of your dish put a middling-sized gallipot; lay the rice all round to the top of the gallipot, smoothing it with a spoon, then stick your apples in rows, one row sloping to the right, the other to the left. Put it in the oven to colour the apples; remove the gallipot, garnish the rice with preserved fruits, and in the middle pour boiled custard till level with the top of the rice Serve quite hot Lemon rind flavours custards deliciously, or a few drops of vanilla, Bet a pmt of milk, about 3 oz. of lump sugar, and 3 laurel leaves,