BILL OF FARE FOR AUGUST. 243 thin slices of ham neatly trimmed. Fry the cutlets a nice brown; dish them en 7niroion (in a circle, the half of one overlapping the other), alternately a slice of ham and a cutlet; or, instead of the ham, small pieces of bacon may be fried and put round. Serve them with mush- room sauce in the middle. 4. Arrowroot, Blancmange, and Tartlets.—Mix the 2 oz. of arrowroot with a large cupful of the milk into a smooth thick batter; boil the remainder of the milk with three laurel leaves until sufficiently flavoured ; flien strain the milk into a jug and pour it over the arrowroot, stirring it constantly • add sugar to taste, and stir it over a clear fire until very thick j add a table-spoonful of brandy or of noyeau, and pour it into an oiled mould. Set it in a cold place, or in ice if you have it. When firm, turn it carefully out on a dish, and garnish it with fruit or flowers. AUGUST 2 2. ‘ One’s own home is the best home, tho' never so ’—Bishop Percy. 4. Cauliflower. 5- Lemon Pudding. 1. Salmon Sauce. 2. Roast Rabbit. 3. Sauce. I. Scilmon Sauce.—Sit^v very gently 2 or 3 slices of salmon (laid in a small kettle with a strainer) in a quart of veal gravy and a gill of Harveys sauce for twenty minutes; or lift out the strainer with the fish, pour off the gravy into a stewpan, return the strainer with the fish to keep warm; thicken the gravy with arrowroot, season with pepper and salt; add a gill of capers, \ pint of sherry, and 12 pickled gherkins cut m slices; and pour the whole back again over the salmon. Simmer five minutes, and serve immediately, very hot skin roasting should be trussed like hare; then leJ. fill line the inside of the rabbit with them fill up the vacuum with veal stuffing, to which the rabbit’s liver has been added ; sew the stuffing in, smear the rabbit over with butter of ^ "^^dy three-quarters b ownT' ^ dredge with flour, froth up, and serve with Wn gravy and red currant jelly. small rabbit will only take half an hour. Slices of fat bacon tied over can be used insteL of ^^""san removed in time to froth the rabbit, sle^ cnt l proportion of par- ^iuL^ait,