204 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. flat upon a dish, with half the head at the top and the other half at the bottom. Serve with currant sauce, and a sauce-boatful of good gravy. 4. Soiifflee Pudding.—\ lb. of sifted loaf sugar, | lb. of flour, ^ lb. of fresh butter, the yolks of 6 eggs, and i table-spoonful of orange-juice; beat ingredients well together until very smooth, then beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth and add them to the rest. Pour into a dish— take care not to fill it—and bake in a moderate oven. —0— OCTOBER 14. * Too low they build who build beneath the stars'—Young. 1. Stewed Pheasant. 3* Northumberland Pudding. 2. Roast Loin of Veal. 4- Vegetables. I. Stewed Pheasant.—Cut up a pheasant into 14 pieces, i.e. each wing into 2 pieces, the back into 3 pieces, the leg and thigh into 2 pieces, the breast into 2 pieces, and the merry-thought. Stew them in 2 oz. butter, some cayenne and salt, the oyster liquor of 2 dozen oysters thickened with a spoonful of arrowroot. Just before serving, throw in the oysters merely to plump them. ■ 2. Roast Loin of Veal.—Ydkt about 7 lbs. of the kidney end of a loin of veal, fasten the flap over the kidney with a small skewer, run the spit through the thick end lengthways, cover the veal with buttered paper, and place it before a good fire to roast. Just before serving, remove the paper, and froth it up by dredging it with a little flour, and basting it with butter. Pour melted butter over it when placed on the dish, and serve. The kidney and fat may be sent to table separately on a toast if preferred, but it is not very usual to do so. 3. Northumberland Pudding.—Boil i pint of milk, then stir in it a little salt, and as much flour gradually stirred in as will make it like hasty pudding; boil three minutes, and pour into a basin; when cool, add 4 well-beaten eggs ; mix and boil in a clean cloth an hour. Serve with melted butter and currant jelly. OCTOBER IS. ‘ We learn to treasure what is above this earth: we longfor revelation ! —GoETilE. 1. Hashed Wild Duck. 3- Raisin Pudding. 2. Stewed Sirloin of Veal. 4- Vegetables. I. Hashed Wild Duck.—i:\so glasses of port wine, i table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, i of Harvey sauce, a little flour, pepper, salt, and cayenne to taste, a little weak stock, or water.