490 2TIINGS A LADY WOULD LIIvE TO lOVOW. disease of the heart, half a tumbler of rather strong brandy and water cold, and an upright sitting position. For Spots, Phnples, etc. on the Face (INVALUABLE).—One oz. of aquafortis, i oz. quicksilver; put these into aii earthe7i vessel; i oz. hard soap to mix readily, i oz. prepared chalk, i lb. lard, i tabu-spoonful of spirit of turpentine; aquafortis, quicksilver, and hard soap dissolve together; prepared chalk mixed with lard (mco7porated). The above, by putting the aquafortis and quicksilver into an earthen vessel, and when done efervescing, mix with the other ingredients, putting the chalk in last, afid spirit of turpeiitine tinted with camnine. Cure for Neuralgia.—Five grains of citrate ot quinine and iron, dissolved in a small wine-glass of water for a dose; to be repeated three times a day during the attacks. Lotion for Chilblains (not broken).—Take a tea-spoonful of common alum and the same quantity ot purified white copperas, dissolve them in half a pint of white wine vinegar, and add a wine-glass of gin. Apply the lotion with a camel’s hair brush or feather, and allow to dry without wiping. Gout.—Take of acetic extract of colchicum, i grain; compound powder of ipecacuanha, 5 grains; compound colocynth pill, 4 grains. Make two pills—to be taken at bed-time. Send six. Take of compound tincture of senna and peppermint water, of each oz.; mix and make a mixture. Take a third part early in the morning after the pills. Ringwor7n.—Ointment of nitrate of mercury, i part; clarified hog’s lard, 3 parts: to be mixed thoroughly, and applied in small quantity night and morning. The above ointment, more or less diluted with clarified hog’s lard, is an excellent application for the cure of many skin affections. Toothache.—One drop of pure liquid carbolic acid upon a phlet of cotton wool, placed carefully in the caries of the teeth, will be found of great value both in allaying pain and arresting decay. When free from pain and sensitiveness, the tooth may be stopped either by a dentist, or, if the caries be too large, a temporary stopping of gutta-percha. The last-named may be found highly useful, and can be readily applied by one’s own self as follows :—Take a piece of either white or brown gutta-percha of the required size ; immerse it in warm water, and when quite plastic, fill the tooth, and trim off before the filling hardens. The gutta-percha indicated may be obtained at any chemist’s. Car77iinative Mixture for Infants.—Turkey rhubarb, 8 grains ; mag- nesia, 16 grains; laudanum, 2 drops; syrup, a table-spoonful; dill water, three table-spoonfuls. The above ingredients to be put into a bottle, and shaken before use. Dose: a tea-spoonful once, twice, or thrice daily, or during the night;