532 things a lady would like to know. many and great offerings, bring to Him what thou hast and mayest, with such good will, and holy desires and wishes, that He may cheer- fully accept thy godly service.—Johan7i Arndt. FAITH, ITS POWER. St. John spoke of faith as the instrument of the conquest over the world—as the spring which sets in motion our efforts to be virtuous, which quickens their vigour and directs their aim. In this position, the apostle has not done what his interpreters are prone to do j he has neither perplexed what is distinct, nor united what is irrelative. Faith, exercised on the evidence and laws of religion, sets before you the beauty of holiness, the deformity of sin, the chorus of God’s mercy, and the terrors of His wrath. It lays open to us the excellence of heavenly joys, which we ought to pursue; the hollowness of earthly gratifications, which we ought to abandon; the severity of hell-torments, which we ought to shun. It represents to you the various offices of Christ, and the relation severally resulting from them. If He be our teacher, we should be careful to follow His instructions. If He be our redeemer, we should be anxious not to forfeit our portion in the blessings of re- demption. If He be our judge, we should be indefatigable to secure His approbation.—i?r. Sa^nuel Parr. HOPE. Hope is one of the angels of our life, and a most blessed one too. Hope has golden wings, and always bears us to a more congenial clime. It smooths the rugged parts of our pilgrimage, and fills us with a joy that few things else could do. It adapts itself to all circumstances, and so gives courage to dare and to do, shedding a radiance over all our attempts, and thus lighting up our struggles, our misfortunes, our very being. The few extracts that follow on this subject, I trust may be useful, and develope in the mind a hope that cannot be deceived: HOPE, THE FORETASTE OF GOOD THINGS TO COME. Our actual enjoyments are so few and transient, that we should be very miserable beings were we not endowed with this passion, which gives us a taste of those good things that may possibly come mto our possession. Hope quickens all the still parts of life, and keeps t e mind awake in her most remiss and indolent hours. It gives habitual