37 BILL OF FARE FOR JANUARY. warm it up when required; add more Harvey’s sauce and flavouring, if necessary, to the taste, as it should be a dark brown colour. A vegetable cutter should be had for chopping the vegetables for soups, etc. 2. Roast Hare and Sauce, or Red Currant Jelly.—A hare, after being properly stufied, is basted for the first seven minutes with strong salt and water; a fresh dripping-pan is then put under it, and milk is used, in which about half a pound of butter has been dissolved. The animal is dredged with flour occasionally j when the eyes start from the sockets, the hare is fit to be sent to table. Stuffing Jor Hares. — Use the liver—see that it is quite fresh; an anchovy, some fat bacon, a little suet, herbs, pepper, salt, nutmeg, a little onion, crumbs of bread, and an egg to bind it all. 4. Lemon Dtmplings and Sauce.—The juice of a lemon and half the rind, ^ lb. of bread grated, ^ lb. suet chopped very fine, lb. loaf sugar, and 2 eggs, mixed together, and made into balls, tied in cloths, and boiled halt an hour; served up with wine sauce. -0— JANUARY 8. ‘ The harvest and vintage come not every day, therefore be provident.' 1. Boiled Salmon. 2. Shrimp Sauce. 3. Roast Beef-heart. 4. Mashed Potatoes. 5. Plum-pudding. 1. Boiled Salmon.~Z\t2.xs it carefully; boil it gently, and take out of the water as soon as done; let the water be warm if the fish be split. 2. Shrimp Sauce.—Take ^ a pint of shrimps, pick and lay them aside; put the pickings into a little water, stew it a short time, then strain off the liquor, with which make your melted butter; put in your shrimps, add a spoonful of anchovy liquor and a little lemon-juice, and let It simmer all together for a few minutes. ^ 3. Roast BeeJ-heari.—The heart must be stuffed with the same mate- nals used for fillet of veal, well basted with fresh butter, and allowed ^enty-five minutes to the pound. Make some beef gravy to serve with It, and melt a pot of red currant jelly in a gill of port wine, to be sent quite hot to table. > ^ uc sent 5- Plumpudding.—The same proportions of flour and suet, and half milk ; boil as long as you can—the longer the better.