155 BILL OF FARE FOR MAY. slow fire for half an hour, skim it constantly, season it with salt to your taste, put in four cloves, and keep it over the fire for another half hour j strain through a muslin sieve, and serve with toasted bread. 2. Veal Cutlets.—Care should be taken that the meat be cut at least half an inch thick, and well flattened with the rolling-pin; smear them over with egg, and then cover them with finely powdered bread-cmmbs. Fry them in fresh butter for a quarter of an hour, turning them till both sides are well browned. Send them to table with a fresh lemon and some mushroom ketchup. 4. Macaroni.—Boil in milk, and when quite tender drain off the liquid; place the macaroni upon the dish you intend to send to table, put it before the fire whilst you rub fresh butter over the top, and then cover the surface with grated Parmesan cheese, about a quarter of an inch thick; put it into a Dutch oven, and let it remain for ten minutes before sending to table. Some epicures have macaroni plain boiled, and instead of cheese use a good rich brown gravy. MAY 24. ‘ Rage is essentially vulgar, and never vulgarer than when it proceeds frosn mortified pride, disappointed ambition, or thwarted wilfulness. ’—Hartley Coleridge. 1. Broiled Mackerel. 3. Vegetables. 2. Haricot Mutton. 4. Macaroni. 1. Broiled Mackerel.—K good-sized fish, with a hard roe, split, broiled, rubbed over with fresh butter, and eaten with Reading sauce, soluble cayenne, and salt, will be found by no means unsavoury. 2. Haricot Mutton.—Cut up the remains of a cold leg of mutton, and take off the fat; slice onions, and fry them with a little butter with the mutton till they are of a brown colour; add the gravy; stir in some flour, and let it stew gently nearly an hour. In the meanwhile boil some carrots, turnips, and a head of celery, until nearly tender; slice them, and add them to the mutton a quarter of an hour before servin'^ Season with pepper and salt, add the ketchup, give one boil, and serve. 4. Macaroni. 2 pints of milk, 3 oz. of macaroni, some lemon-peel 3 eggs, sweetened to taste; add some grated nutmeg and 2 tabled spoonfuls of brandy.