450 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW ground mustard and curry powder, each 2 table-spoonfuls, the same of anchovy sauce, 3 table-spoonfuls of moist sugar, and i green capsicum finely chopped. Mix all these well, and add to the contents of the stewpan. Boil slowly, keeping it stirred for half an hour; mash through a hair sieve, and when cold, bottle for use. If well made and closely corked, this sauce will keep for an indefinite time, and be found a capital relish for cold meat, as well as an excellent flavouring for gravies. Onion Sauce.—Peel, and cut in four, 6 good-sized onions, and boil them till tender with i turnip. Strain and chop the onions (the turnip is only used to make the onions milder). Press them through a sieve, and boil up in a pint of melted butter, made with milk instead of water. Orange Sauce for Diplomatic Pudding.—Dissolve 3 oz. of loaf sugar in the strained juice of 2 oranges; boil till it becomes a thick syrup, then add 2 table-spoonfuls of rum. Serve in the dish. Oyster Sauce.—Beard the oysters, and stew them in their own liquor, with enough mace to cover the point of a knife. Beat up the yolk of an egg in melted butter, and then add the oysters and liquor. White Oyster Sauce.—Rub 2 table-spoonfuls of flour into a piece of butter the size of an egg; melt these gently in a stewpan, and add | of a pint of stock to thicken, with \ a spoonful of salt, the juice of ^ a lemon, and a gill of cream. The oysters should be bearded and stewed in their own liquor separately; when the sauce is as thick as melted butter, add the fish, and stir them together. This is applicable for boiled turkey, fowl, or cod-fish. Parisian Sauce for Parisian Pudding.—Beat the yolks of 3 fresh eggs; add 2 oz. of sifted loaf sugar and ^ a pint of Marsala; stir over a slow fire till it thickens; add | gill of cream stirred in by degrees. Serve directly. Parsley, a good substitute for Caper Sauce.—Boil slowly some parsley to let it become a bad colour; cut, but do not chop it fine; put it to melted butter, with a tea-spoonful of salt and a dessert-spoonful of vinegar. Boil up, and serve in a tureen. Piquante Sauce.—Tut 2 oz. of butter into a stewpan, with 6 shalots and I small carrot, both cut into small slices. Add to it, minced rather finely, 2 slices of lean ham, i small bunch of savour}' herbs and parsley, ^ a bay leaf, 2 cloves, i blade mace, 3 whole allspice, 6 pepper-corns, and let them simmer over a slow fire till the bottom of the stewpan is covered with a brown glaze. Keep stirring with a wooden spoon, and add ^ a pint of stock, 4 table-spoonfuls of vinegar, some salt, ^ salt-spoonful of cayenne, i small lump of sugar. Simmer very gently for a quarter of an hour; skim off all fat; strain the sauce through a sieve, and serve very hot.