2 66 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. lent any way. A good flavouring, for a change, is a table-spoonful of' lemon-pickle, the same of walnut ketchup, and a dessert-spoonful of soy. 2. Ducks.—Choose a fine fat duck, salt it for two days, then boil it slowly in a cloth ; serve it with onion sauce, using milk instead of water in its preparation. 3. Onion Sauce.—The proportions for making this soup are as fol- lows : To a quart of beef gravy add i large onion, that has been previously boiled in three waters, and then finely chopped ; season with soluble cayenne and salt; put in the vegetables; let all simmer for an hour \ strain before serving. 5. Eve's Pudding.—?axo and chop 6 apples; take 6 oz. of finely- grated bread-crumbs, the same weight of picked and washed currants, 6 oz. of loaf sugar, a salt-spoonful of salt, and quarter of a nutmeg finely powdered, 6 eggs beat up, a table-spoonful of lemon-peel cut very fine, and a tumbler of white wine. Mix well together; boil six hours. —0- SEPTEMBER 12. ‘ The tallest pine feels most the power Of wintry blasts : tlu loftiest tower Comes heaviest to the ground. The bolts that spare the mountain's side Bis cloud-clapt eminence divide,. And spread the ruin round.'—CoWPER. 1. Carrot Soup. I 3- Vegetables. 2. Curried Chicken. 1 4- Alice Pudding. 1. Carrot Soup.—liquor in which you have boiled mutton or veal, or a gravy drawn from beef bones, will make sufficient foundation for this excellent soup. Put a couple of quarts of either of these into a stewpan, then scrape 6 large carrots, and cut off the red portion; put that, with a head of celery and onion both cut up, into the stewpan, cover down close, and set it near the fire, or on a very slow one, for two hours and a half; if you do not find the carrots quite soft by this tune, give them another half-hour’s simmering ; force the vegetables tlirough a sieve by the aid of a wooden spoon, and if you find that the pu p mixed with the liquor is too thick for soup, add more broth; season with salt and pepper to your taste. It must be warmed up again before sending to table. Serve with toasted bread. ^ .1 2. Curried Chicken.-'S^^ct a chicken and cut it up, dividing the legs and wings into small joints. Mix with \ oz of curry PO'^der i tab^ spoonful of flour, and roll the chicken m it Slice 2 onions, and r>