33 BILL OF FARE FOR JANUAR Y. them in rounds the full size of the fruit; their flavour is much improved by soaking them for three or tour hours in a little wine mixed with lemon juice. For the batter, pour less than ^ pint of boiling water upon 2 oz. of good butter, cut into small pieces; when dissolved, add f pint of cold water, so that the whole shall not be quite milk-warm; mix it by degrees smoothly with 12 oz. of fine dry flour, and a small pinch of salt; stir into it the whites of two eggs, beaten to a solid froth (just before used). Previously to this, add a little water, should it appear too thick; heat some butter in a frying-pan, dip each slice separately in the batter, fry a pale brown, turning them if required; when done, lay them before the fire on a piece of blotting paper to absorb the greasy moisture; serve them upon a folded napkin, piling the fritters one above the other; sift pounded sugar over them, and nutmeg, if liked. JANUARY 4. ‘ Th’piire in heart are slow to credit calumnies.'—Jane Porter. 1. Fried Soles. 2. Roast Leg of Mutton. 3. Celery Sauce. 4. Spinach and Potatoes. 5. Victoria Pudding. 6. Sauce to Victoria Pudding. 1. Fried Scrape, but do not skin them; wash them and wipe them dry, and let them remain in the cloth till time to dress them; dredge the soles with a little flour; dip them into, or brush them over with, beaten^ egg, and cover them with bread-crumbs; fry them of a light brown in boiling lard or dripping, and turn them but once; take them out carefully, and lay them before the fire on a napkin, or on a reversed sieve, and soft paper to absorb the fat (Particular attention should be paid to that.) Dish them on a hot napkin, and garnish with fried parsley and cut lemon, and send to table with shrimp sauce or plain melted butter. Allow about ten minutes for large soles. 2. Roast Leg of Mutton.—it before a large brisk fire, quite near for a quarter of an hour; baste it well, withdraw it to a distance, and let it roast slowly, basting it constantly. Half an hour before serving, dredge it slightly with dried flour, and sprinkle over a salt- spoonful of salt, and continue to baste; have ready a very hot dish • pour off the dripping; add a tea-cupful of boiling water to the gravy dripped from the meat, and pour into the dish. Allow a quarter of an hour to the pound, but if frosty, add eighteen minutes to the time 3- Celery Wash and boil 4 heads of celery in salt and water