THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 140 stewpan put a few slices of bacon ; on. this place the fowl, and add an onion stuck with 3 or 4 cloves, a sliced carrot, a bay leaf, and a few ]ieppercorns, with as much water or fresh broth as will nearly cover the bird j boil and scum it, then add about ^ lb. of butter, and when the fowl'is about half done, ^ lb. of picked and washed rice; let it cook very gently. When done, dish the capon with the rice round, and pour some bichaincl or sauce supvcine over the capon. 4. Cabinet Pudding.—4 spongecakes into small pieces ; add 3 or 4 bunches of raisins cut and stoned, a table-spoonful of candied citron, 2 oz. of ratafia cakes; beat up 5 eggs with 2 glasses of brown sherry and i of brandy; add enough fine Lisbon sugar to sweeten it. Boil a pint of milk, with half a dozen cloves and a quarter of a stick of cinnamon; strain, and add the milk to the above. See that the mould be well buttered, and boil for the same time. -0— MAY 8. ‘ Love has its instinct. It knows how to find its way to the heart, as the feeblest insect moves to its flower, with an irresistible will, which nothing daunts:—Qklzkc. 1. Collared Mackerel. 2. Calf’s Head Hashed. 3. Vegetables—Broccoli Sprouts. 4. Ground Rice Pudding. I Collared Mackerel.—Bone a large mackerel, but do not skin it; mix pepper, salt, mace, allspice, and a clove or two, in the finest powder, and rub over the whole inside; bind it tight with a coarse tape. Boil in salt and water till done; then add vinegar, and when cold keep the collar in pickle. Serve it either whole or m slices. Chopped sage, a little fennel and thyme, knotted marjoram and savoury mixed with the spices, greatly improve the taste. 2. Calf’s Head Hashed.—Cn\. the meat into slices, and put the bones and trimmings into a stewpan, with a quart of liquor m which the head was boiled yesterday; add a bunch of savoury herbs, an onion, a carrot, and a strip of lemon-peel, some mace, salt, and white pepper to taste, with a very little cayenne, a glass of sherry, a table-spoonful °f lemon- juice, and a table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup. Garnish the dish with forcemeat-balls and toasted rolls of bacon, placed alternately. It takes about an hour and a half. , , 3. Broccoli sprouts.—!\A and wash them well, and boil them m plenty of water, with salt in it; when they are tender, strain and let Aem cool; when cold, to heat them again dredge them ttnA flour, and fry them in butter of a light brown, sprinkle them with a little salt, an serve them up.