BILL OF BABB FOB FEBBUABY. 6i melt a. good deal of fresh butter, and bruise in the spawn of one or two lobsters, and the meat cut small, with a spoonful of anchovy liquor; then give it a boil, and pour it into boats. Now lay the turbot in the dish, and garnish with scraped horseradish and lemon. 2. Boiled Bibs of Beef.—Bone and roll the meat round, secure it with wooden skewers, and, if necessary, bind it round with a piece of tape. Spit the beef firmly, and place it near a nice clear fire; let it remain so till the outside of the meat is set, when draw it to a distance, and keep continually basting until the meat is done, which can be ascertained by the steam from it drawing towards the fire. As this joint is solid, rather more than a quarter of an hour to the lb. must be allowed. Send the joint to the table with gravy in the dish, and garnish with tufts of horseradish. 4. Plum-pudding.—Half lb. of flour, ^ lb. of grated bread, i lb. of currants well washed and dried, i lb. of raisins stoned and cut, the peel of a lemon finely chopped, oz. of mixed spice, i oz. of butter, 2 oz. of sweet almonds cut small, 6 oz. of candied orange, lemon, and citron peel, 4 eggs, a tea-spoonful of salt, 2 of sugar, .and 3 wine-glasses of brandy. Mix all these together well, adding as much milk as necessary to make the mixture a proper consistency. Boil in a melon-shaped mould for eight hours. 5. Sauce to Ditto.—The yolks of 3 eggs, 1 table-spoonful of powdered sugar, I gill of milk, a very little grated lemon-rind, 2 small wine-glass- fuls of brandy. Mode : Separate the yolks from the whites of 3 eggs, and put the former into a stewpan; add the sugar, milk, and grated lemon-rind, and stir over the fire until the mixture thickens, but do not allow It to boil. Put in the brandy; let the sauce stand by the side of the fire, to get quite hot; keep stirring it, and serve in a tureen separately, or pour it over the pudding. FEBRUARY 2. ‘ Be check'd for silence. But never tax'd for speech. Shakspeare. 1. Broiled Haddocks. 2. Haunch of Mutton and Cur- rant Jelly Sauce. 3. Brussels Sprouts. 4. Mashed Potatoes. 5. Remains of Plum-pudding FRIED IN Slices. _ I. Broiled Haddocks.-Sc^le, gut, and wash them clean Do not np open the bellies, but take out the guts with the gills; diy them in a