BILL OF FARE FOR SEPTEMBER. 265 bones and meat into a stewpan ; add a little rice whole, a few sweet herbs, some pepper and salt; let it simmer over a slow fire for an hour, skimming every ten minutes. Strain it before serving. 2. Boiled Fowl.—Beard and wash some oysters in their own liquor; stuff a young fowl, trussed for boiling, with them; sew securely the ends of the fowl, put it into a jar, and plunge the jar into a saucepan of boil- ing water. Let it boil for nearly one hour and three-quarters. Take the gravy that has flowed from it, add to it some oysters scalded in their own liquor, the yolks of 2 eggs and ^ pint of cream, and a blade of powdered mace. Stir this sauce all together till quite hot, but do not let it boil; put part in a sauce tureen, and part pour over the fowl. 5. Apple Pancakes.—Pare and cut some apples in thick slices, fry them in butter a light brown, keep them as whole as possible; when tender, take them out, melt some butter in the pan, and put in some batter as for a pancake, then put in a layer of apples, then a little more batter; fry a nice brown, and strew sugar on each pancake. SEPTEMBER 11, ‘ She who holds fast the golden mean. And lives contentedly between The little and the great. Feels not the wants that pinch the poor, Nor plagues that haunt the rich man's door, Embittering all his state.'—COWPER. 1. Baked Conger. 4. Vegetables. 2. Boiled Ducks. 5. Eve’s Pudding. 3. Onion Sauce. I. Baked Conger. Take such a piece of fine conger as would be chosen for boiling; make a stuffing, and stuff it as mentioned for boiled conger. Put it into a pie-dish or a baking-dish, with a pint of water; lay pieces of butter over the fish, flour it well, and put it into a moderate oven. Baste it often with the liquor while it is cooking, and when it is almost done, thicken the liquor with flour, just enough to correct any little richness that may float on the top of it, not more. Baked conger may be varied in many ways. It is very nice with potatoes baked under It 3 but as there must be liquor in the dish with which to baste the fish, to prevent the skin getting dry and hard, they will not brown on the outside. The gravy may be thickened with tomatoes, or with tomato sauce, and this is particularly nice. It may be taken from tlie liquor and eaten with dressed cucumber and early potatoes. It may be flavoured with, or eaten with, any sauce that is nice, and it will be excel-