370 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 2 Roast Pigeons.—birds should be killed by having their necks broken, and should not be bled. When they are plucked, drawn, singed and trussed, cover them with 3 or 4 thin slices of bacon, and as many vine leaves tied around them with a coarse thread. Roast them on a spit, and baste them with good veal broth and a slice of butter. It they are young and tender, half an hour is long enough to cook them. If they are to be eaten hot, dish them up as they are, simply taking off the thread which confines the vine.leaves and the bacon, and serve them with a sauce piquante, made by mixing a little mustard, salt, tarragon, vinegar, and pepper with the gravy which comes from them. If the gravy is poor or short in quantity, add a little very Florence oil. . , u 3 House-lamb Steaks.—Some steaks from a loin of lamb, pepper, salt, and nutmeg, peel of half a lemon, a sprig of parsley, i egg, a large cup- fal of rich gravy, 3 oz. of butter, i tea-spoonful of flour, 2 dessert-spoon- fuls of port wine, 12 oysters. , , j- Cut some nice steaks from a loin of house-lamb ; dip them into the yolk of a well-beaten egg, and then season them with a sprig of parsley chopped very fine, the peel of half a lemon grated, and a little pepper, salt, and nutmeg. Fry the steaks a nice light brown in some butter then thicken a large cupful of rich gravy with about an oz. of butter rolled in flour; add 2 dessert-spoonfuls of port wine, and a dozen oysters bearded and washed clean ; let the gravy boil, and then put in the steaks. When they are thoroughly hot, serve them with forcemeat-balls or plain 4. Batter for Fritters.—YKfcA oz. of flour, i pint of water, 2 oz. 0 ^""mTx loTof fine flS'r with about i pint ofwater into a smooth batter; dissolve the butter over a slow fire, and then stir it by degrees mto the flour. Then add the whites of 2 eggs whisked to a stift froth, and them lightly in. DECEMBER SI. ‘ Firtue alone can ^ive true joy; The sweets of virtue never cloy: To take delight in doing good, 2n justice, truth, and gratitude. In aiding those whom cares oppress, Administering comfort to Dewart, 1. GibletSoup. 2. Pork Cutlets. 3. Tomato Sauce. 4. Vegetables. ... , T Ablet Soup-YL^-v^ a set of goose giblets nicely cleaned an ^ "•. . „ Inches long. Put them mto a stewpan with 1^ cut into pieces two incnes loug. 5. Swiss Pudding. 6. Cocoa-nut Sauce. 7. Cheese.