446 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. chop the fennel quite fine (leaving out the stalks); knead 3 oz. of butter with a table-spoonful of baked flour, and stir into ^ a pint of boiling water. Boil ten minutes; stir in a table-spoonful of the chopped fennel, and serve at once. EisA Sauce for Fried Salmon.—Boil 5 eggs for twelve minutes, and when cold, pound the yolks to powder; mix in a tea-spoonful of flour of mustard, a ^ of a grain of cayenne, and a salt-spoonful of salt; beat the yolks of 2 fresh eggs, and stir in till quite smooth (always turning the same way); then add 7 table-spoonfuls, drop by drop, of the finest salad (Lucca) oil, 3 table-spoonfuls of French vinegar, and 3 tea-spoon- fuls of tarragon vinegar; set the mortar in a cold place, or on ice, for an hour ; then stir in a tea-spoonful of finely-chopped chives or shalot, and pour in the centre of the dish. This sauce requires care, and should be made half an hour before the fish is commenced; it must be of the consistency of very thick cream and perfectly smooth. Fish Sauce.—A gill of India soy, a wine-glassful of shalot vinegar, \ a pint of mixed mushroom and walnut ketchup in equal proportions, the juice of a lemon, and its peel chopped very fine, a couple of anchovies boned, 2 tea-spoonfuls of soluble cayenne pepper, a table-spoonful of horseradish vinegar, and a tumbler of port wine. Let all these be put into a bottle and corked down close; place it where it will be con- stantly seen, and whenever opportunity arises, give the bottle a good hearty shaking, but do not think of using the contents till they have been at least a month mixing; you may then fill small sauce bottles with the mixture, strained. If fowls are of a bad colour, make a sauce as follows :—Cut the livers, slices of lemon in dice, scalded parsley, and hard eggs; add salt, and mix them with butter j boil them up, and pour over the fowls. This will do also for roast rabbits. Sauce for Wild Fowl.—Simmer a tea-cupful of port wine, the same quantity of good meat-gravy, a little shalot, pepper, salt, a grate of nutmeg, and a bit of mace for ten minutes; put in a bit of butter and flour, give it all one boil, and pour it through the birds. Fruit Sauce for Puddings.—Half a pint of any kind of summer fruit, a ^ lb. of loaf sugar, and a wine-glassful of water; boil and skim till the juice is a rich syrup, then strain it over the pudding; jam or jelly may be dissolved and strained when fresh fruit is not to be had. Christopher North's Sauce for Game or Meat (excellent). — !Mix thoroughly together 2 table-spoonfuls of Harvey’s sauce, i glass of port wine, I dessert-spoonful of pounded white sugar, i dessert-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, i table-spoonful of lemon-juice, half a tea-spoonful of salt, half a tea-spoonful of cayenne pepper. Place the vessel in which it is made in a saucepan of boiling water, and heat the sauce