334 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. the paste to prevent its burning, and bake it in a moderate oven. Whisk the whites of 3 eggs to a stiff froth, lay it on the pudding when baked, and put it again into the oven for a few minutes before serving. —— NOVEMBER 2 8. * A deity believed, is joy begun ; A deity adored, is joy advanced; A deity beloved, is joy natural.'—Young. 1. Pike. 3. Citkon Pudding. 2. Pheasant. 4. Vegetables. X. Pike.—Prepare, stuff, and tie in a circle. Put it in a baking-dish with a little flour and water at the bottom, and lay lumps of butter along its back. Set it in the oven, and when the butter is melted, baste the fish with its own gravy from time to time. When nearly done, add to the gravy a dessert-spoonful of capers and their vinegar, and a few olives. When quite done, dish the fish, put the gravy into a saucepan, and finish it off by adding stock if necessary, thickening and smoothing it with a sprinkle of flour, and seasoning with salt and pepper. Pour hot over the dish, and serve. Pike may also be thus baked at full length if preferred. 2. Pheasant.—A pheasant requires to be well hung before dressing, or it will be dry and tasteless. It is best hung in its feathers until it is fit for dressing. Do not wash pheasants before dressing; wipe them inside with a clean damp cloth; roll a small piece of butter in pepper and salt, and put it inside the bird. Hang it down to a quick, brisk fire. It will take from three-quarters of an hour to one hour to cook. Baste it well with butter, and bring it to table nicely frothed, and with a little good beef gravy in the dish. Send a tureen of bread sauce and a tureen of gravy to table with the bird. Hen pheasants are the most delicate. They should be hung till blood drops from the bill—a sign that the pheasant is ready for dressing. Sometimes a few of the finest tail feathers are stuck in the dressed bird as an ornament, but it has rather a savage appearance. 3. Citron Piiddmg.—Grate sufficient stale bread to fill a pint basin; pour over it a pint of boiling milk, or cream. When cold, slice into it a lb. of beef marrow very thin; add 4 well-beaten eggs, sugar and nutmeg to taste, and a wine-glassful of brandy. Mix all well together, and boil it in a buttered mould two hours. Cut the citron into very thin shreds, and when the pudding is served, stick the citron over it