BILL OF FARE FOR JANUARY. 49 meat and gravy), i gallon of cold v^ater; and when it boils and has been skimmed, add 2 oz. of salt, 3 onions, i large head of celery, and 3 carrots, oz. of black peppercorns, and a few cloves. Gently stew this for three or four hours, then take up the principal joints, cut the meat from them, mince and pound to a paste, with the crumb of 2 penny rolls that has been soaked in a little of the boiling soup, and then pressed dry in a cloth; strain, and mix smoothly with it the stock from the remainder of the hare. Strain the soup, season with cayenne, and serve it when at the point of boiling. 2. Boiled Fowl.—Having your fowl properly trussed, let it be well floured; rub the quarter of a nutmeg, grated, in a piece of butter the size of a walnut; put this, a pinch of powdered mace, and your fowl into a bladder, then pour in a dozen oysters with their liquor ; leave the body of the bladder loose, but tie the neck of it very tight, and you may then boil in a saucepan containing any other meat j about five-and- tvventy minutes is quite time enough j have a deep dish ready, and you will find sufficient and excellent sauce made to your hand when you take the fowl out of its case. 3. Oyster Sauce.—Unless the party is very large, never allow less than 6 oysters to each person. Save the liquor in opening the oysters, and boil it with the beards, a bit of mace, and lemon-peel. In the meantime throw the oysters into cold water, and drain it off; strain the liquor, and put it into a saucepan with them, and as much butter, mixed with a little milk, as will make sauce enough; but first rub a little flour with it. Set them over the fire, and stir all the time; and when the butter has boiled once or twice, take them off; keep saucepan near the fire, but not on it: if done too much, the oysters will be hard. Squeeze little lemon-juice, and serve. If for company, a little cream is a great improvement. Observe, the oysters will thin the sauce, so put butter accordingly. 5. Comarquis Pudding.—Excellent. Five eggs, 3 table-spoonfuls flour, 2 do. powdered sugar, rind of i lemon, | pint of cream, different kinds of preserve. Mode : Beat the whites and yolks of the eggs separately, and put them into different basins; stir the flour, sugar, and lemon- ,peel into the yolks; whip the cream very thick, and put it on a sieve to harden; then add it with the whites of the eggs to the other ingredients, and pour the mixture into little deep saucers just before putting into the oven. Bake about half an hour. When they are taken out, a very thin layer of different kinds of preserve should be put upon each, piled one above another. A little whipped cream placed here and there on the pudding as a garnish much improves the appearance of the dish. D