BILL OF FARE FOR MA K 157 for ten minutes, and put in the juice of half a lemon just before serving. 2. Lam3 Cutlets and Cucumbers—YL-wt ready a bright fire, lay the cutlets on a gridiron, and broil some eight or ten minutes; season with pepper and salt; garnish with crisp parsley. 4. Currant Dumplings.—i lb. of flour j chop 6 oz. of suet finely cut, mix it with flour, and add the currants after washing them; then divide into several dumplings, and drop into boiling water. Serve with a cut lemon, cold butter, and crystallized sugar j boil for about three-quarters of an hour. MAY 2 7. ‘ Lave sought is good, but given tmsougkt is better.'—ShakspeARE. 1. Asparagus Soup. I 3. Vegetables. 2. Lamb Pie. I 4. Ground Rice Pudding. 1. Asparagus Soup.—To any good and well-seasoned jelly broth add asparagus tops boiled separately, and put into the tureen when served. 2. Latnb Fie.—Cut the meat off in slices from a loin of lamb. Put the bones into a saucepan with a spoonful of salt, half that quantity of pepper, and a pinch or two of dried sweet herbs; cover these with cold water. An hour and a half will be sufficient to draw a well-seasoned gravy; strain this through a sieve. Brown the meat by frying it lightly in fresh butter; line a pie-dish with light paste, place the lamb in the dish, then fill it with the gravy from the bones; squeeze half a lemon over it, put on the top crust, and bake in a slow oven for an hour. 3. Vegetables.—Oxt off the stalk, and strip off the outer leaves, quarter, and wash them in plenty of water, and leave them to soak, top downwards, with a little salt in the water, for an hour or two. Put them into plenty of boiling water, with a good handful of salt and a bit of soda, and boil them till the stalk feels tender. Cabbages require boiling from twenty to forty minutes, according to their age and size. Drain them through a cullender. Greens may be pressed between two plates. ^ 4. Ground Rice Pudding.—\n a pint of new milk boil 3 oz. of ground rice, with half a stick of cinnamon, and the peel of half a lemon chopped fine; keep it well stirred whilst boiling, set the saucepan on the hob, and then beat up 4 eggs and 2 table-spoonfuls of powdered sugar; mix these with the rice milk; butter a pie-dish, pour the ingredients in\o it, taking out the spice, and grate nutmeg over the top. Half an hour's baking will be enough.