THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 3^ ing Lay the fillets in a baking-dish, with sufficient butter to baste. Bake tor a quarter of an hour, keeping it well moistened with butter. Well drain the fish from the butter, have ready the remains of lobster sauce, adding a little grated nutmeg and lemon-juice, make it hot, and pour over the fish. The fish warmed thus in the remains of the sauce will be found much nicer than putting it again m water. 2. Staffordshire Beteaks.a table-spoonful of flour, half a tea-spoonful of salt, half a tea-spoonful of ground pepper and allspice together. Mix well. Have 2 lbs. tender beefsteak; rub it in the flour seLonin^. Slice a large onion thin, take a little fat from the steak, and use it to°fry the onion a light brown; then lightly fry the steak. Cut into moderate-sized pieces, put the steak in a stewpan, with just enough water for sauce, and stew very gently for half an hour. Add a little ketchup, or sauce, and serve hot. 4 Stewed Aj>ples.—Seyen good-sized apples with the stalks on, the rind of half a kraon, quarter of a lb. of sugar, three-quarters of a_ pint of water • pare and take out the cores of the apples, without dividing them Bod the sugar and water for ten minutes, then put in the apples with the lemon-rinds, and simmer gently until they are ^en^r, tafa g care not to let them break ; dish them neatly on a ’ the syrup by boiling it quickly for a few minutes; let it cool a httle then pour i/over the apples. When they are quite cold, a few cloves, or almonds, blanched and stuck in the apples are pretty; they take from twenty to thirty minutes to stew. j- c. HaveVite ready Bright’s Vegetable Custard, use as directed the IS. box, and pour it round, not over the apples. JANUARY 7. * T/ie aids to noble life are all IMatthew Arnold. 1, Vegetable Soup. 2. Roast Hare and Sauce, and Red Currant Jelly. 3, Mashed Potatoes. 4. Lemon Dumplings and Sauce. rr . 1.1 Q PppI and cut into small pieces 2 or 3 large turnips I. VegaaHeSmp.-ViA z.^^^ ^ ^ large slice or 4 small, 2 ^ a muslirooms.it obtainable! i small °b’’''olrrofsalt i do. ground black pepper, 2 tea-spoontuls ot salt-spoontul ot salt, . Qo g SmllmSituU^Sied .0 a^ulp! then pass it through a sieve!