HINTS FOR DRESSING AND THE TOILET. 485 linen bag, which is placed for 24 hours in pure olive oil. Afterwards the bag is boiled in a solution of soap and water for fifteen minutes, then well rinsed in lukewarm water, and finally dipped in water containing a slight proportion of starch. The lace is then taken from the bag, and stretched on pins to dry. Mildew hi Linen.—Rub the linen well with soap; then scrape some fine chalk, and rub it well on the linen. Lay it on the grass. As it dries, wet it a little; the mildew will generally disappear with a second application. To revive old Crape, (mourning).—Place a little water in a tea-kettle, and let it boil till there is plenty of ,steam from the spout; then, hold- ing the crape in both hands, pass it to and fro several times through the steam. Stains are removed from mourning dresses, such as bombazines, cloth, crape, etc., by rubbing them with a sponge dipped in a mixture com- posed of a handful ot fig-leaves, boiled in 2 quarts of water till reduced to a pint. To remove Paint jrom Silk Cloth.—If the fabric will bear it, sharp rubbing will frequently entirely discharge a newly-made paint-stain ; but, if this is not successful, apply spirit of turpentine with a quill till the stains disappear. PE RFUME S. ‘ Perfumed as if Arabian imids scattered their spices loosely on the face of some rich earth fruitful with aromatics.'—Nodes. Eau-de-Cologne.—Half a pint of spirits of wine, 15 drops of the oil of orange flowers, and a few drops of the essence of lavender and bergamot. ^ A French Perfume.—’Msx. together the fresh petals of roses, jessamine pinks, or clove-carnation, and violets. Take an upright glass jar, such as is used by confectioners to display sweets in their windows ; at the bottom of the jar put a layer of mixed petals, then a thin layer of pounded lump sugar, then another layer of petals, and so on till the jar is full, pressing all down tight. Cover the jar close, and set in the sun for a week. Then empty its contents into a woollen cloth, squeeze out the liquid by means of a press, and bottle it in phials for use, corking them tightly. ’ Lavender Water (good).—Oil of lavender, i an oz.; essence of musk, i an oz. ; ambergris, ^ an oz.; essence of bergamot, 40 drops; recti- fied spirits of wine, ^ a pint. Note.—Quarter of an oz. is just 2 drachms and 25 drops.