BILL OF FARE FOR MAY. US half or three parts done, drain off the water, take out the onion and spice, cut it in pieces, and put it into two quarts of boiling misommL Season with salt and a little cayenne pepper. Let the macaroni be well done, but not enough to burst, or the soup will be spoiled. Serve it with some grated Parmesan cheese on a separate dish. 2. Boiled Leg of Lamb.—Take care to immerse the joint in cold water, and let it boil very slowly. A leg of 6 lbs. will require two hours and twenty minutes before it is properly done. Cauliflower or broccoli are both applicable vegetables; but you cannot do better than send this tender and delicious meat to table reposing on a verdant bed of spinach dressed as above. 3. Brussels Sprouts.—They should be put into boiling water, in which a table-spoonful of salt has been dissolved; twenty minutes on the fire will be sufficient. Drain them well, and serve with melted butter. 4. Cheesecakes and Blanc Mange.—Boil a quart of milk, pour it quite hot into a basin, and mix well with it a table-spoonful of runnet. In about an hour break up the curd, drain off the whey, and spread the curd on the back of a sieve till it is quite free from liquid. Dissolve 2 oz. of powdered sugar in i|- oz. of butter, then add the yolks of a couple of eggs, a glass of sherry or Madeira, and a quarter of a nutmeg grated; have an ounce of currants well washed and picked; let all these be now mixed with the curd. Line your pattypans with light paste, pour the mixture into each, and bake in a slow oven for twenty- five minutes. MAY 10. The friends thou hast, and their adoption tried. Grapple them to thy soul with hooks of steel; But do not dull thy palm with entertainment Of eaeh new-hatchld, unfledgldcomrade.'—Shakspeare. 1. Boiled Salmon. 2. Lobster Sauce. 3. Beef Kidneys. 4. Vegetables. 5. Ground Rice Pudding. I. Boiled Salmon.—Put the salmon in cold water with salt; put 6 oz. salt to each gallon of water; bring it quickly to a boil, take off all the scum, and simmer gently till done, which will be when the meat sepa- rates easily from the bone. If done before wanted, keep it warm with hot cloths laid over it, but do not let it remain in the fish-kettle. Serve on a hot napkin, the dish garnished with cut lemon and parsley, with obster or shrimp sauce and plain melted butter.