394 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. put in the mullet, and roll the edges neatly and closely, to prevent the butter escaping, and broil over a gentle fire, or fry in plenty of boiling lard, for twenty or twenty-five minutes (according to size). Serve in the paper. 3. Sauce for ditto.—Pound the 3^olks of 3 hard-boiled eggs with a tea-spoonful of flour of mustard, ^ salt-spoonful of salt, \ a salt-spoonful of white pepper, a table-spoonful of baked flour, a dessert-spoonful of French vinegar, and 3 oz. of dissolved butter; add ^ a pint of cold water. Rub a saucepan three times across the bottom with fresh-cut garlic; put in the sauce, and stir over a brisk fire till it boils; add a table-spoonful of finely-chopped parsley. Boil up, and serve at once. 4. Fricandeau of Veal.—Order the butcher to cut a piece of veal from the prime part of the fillet, six inches long and four broad; trim off the skin and corners, and make it a compact, neat piece ; lard it deeply with good fat bacon all over the top and sides; rub a stewpan six times across with fresh-cut garlic; put in 2 slices of fat bacon, place the veal (larding uppermost) on it; spread a ^ of a lb. of good butter on half a sheet of foolscap paper, and place over the veal; peel and slice a large onion, a small carrot, ^ a head of celery, 2 large mushrooms, i large truffle, and of a small turnip; put these, with the veal trimmings, round the veal; add three-quarters of a pint of stock or water, a tea- spoonful of salt, a salt-spoonful of white pepper, the eighth part of a nutmeg grated, a bay leaf, a laurel leaf, 2 cloves, the thin rind of ^ a lemon, a tea-spoonful of sifted sugar; boil up quicklj^, skim, then simmer very gently for three hours. Remove the paper, baste the veal, and continue to simmer half an hour longer. Take out the veal, skim off all the fat, rub the gravy through a fine sieve; add the strained juice of a lemon, and serve with the gravy in the dish, or with either spinach, sorrel, or young green peas, and mixed with a tea-cupful of the grav.y. ^ 5. Pork Cutlets with Spanish Sauce.—AA2.V& 6 chops off the fore loin cut the third of an inch thick; trim off all the fat Season 3 oz. of fine bread-crumbs with ^ a salt-spoonful of salt, a salt-spoonful of pepper, the sixth part of a nutmeg grated, and a salt-spoonful of mixed herbs; dip the cutlets into beaten egg, and then into the crumbs; let them stand in an airy place for a quarter of an hour; dip them again into the egg and crumbs; place them on a tin dish, with 3 oz. of butter, and bake in a moderate oven for an hour. Serve with the following sauce: Peel and cut up i large Spanish onion, a small clove of garlic, 4 acid apples; put them into a saucepan, with the strained juice of 2 lemons, a grain of cayenne, 2 grains of powdered ginger, a table-spoonful of moist sugar, and stew for an hour, stirring frequently; add a wine- glassful of Madeira or sherry, and serve—the cutlets round the dish, and the sauce in the centre.