193 DESSERT FOR JUNE. a preserving pan, and stir it over the fire until it is pretty hot. Then form it into small rolls, which are to be cut into slices ; dust your hands with a little flour, and lay the cakes upon wafer or sugar papers ; slightly press them, sift powdered sugar upon them, and put them into a slow oven to harden, 4. CONFITURE DE GROSEILLES A MAQUERAUD. Take some large green gooseberries, cut them at the stalk end in 4 quarters ; take out the pips, and string 5 or 6 gooseberries one upon another, fastening them together with thread, so as to resemble hops. Put them into a saucepan between layers of vine leaves, with enough water to cover them. Scald them, let them grow cold; scald them again, and if of a good green colour, drain them, and put them into a strong sugar syrup to steep until the following day. Give them a boil up for three days successively. Take them out of the syrup; reduce and skim it thoroughly, adding a little finely-shred lemon-peel and ginger. Put your gooseberries into jars, and pour the syrup over them. The gooseberries may be afterwards candied, if required. 6. GUIRLANDES PRINTANIERES. Beat the whites of 3 eggs until they are a snow; add to them a tea- spoonful of eau-defleurs d'Granger and ^ lb. of loaf sugar powdered and sifted; you may likewise add a tea-spoonful of any flavouring essence you fancy. Put some of this mixture into a tun-dish, and let it drop upon paper slightly greased; let it fall in circles similar to wreaths in shape. Stick upon them halved almonds or pistachio nuts, to resemble leaves; among these attach a few coloured comfits to represent flower- buds. Place your garlands in an oven just warm enough to fix them. When cold, remove them carefully from the paper. y. SAVUY CAKE. Crush & pound of very white loaf sugar; put it into a saucepan, with 2 table-spoonfuls of rose-water. Beat separately the yolks of 12 and the whites of 4 eggs ; mix them together; add to them a wine-glassful of eau-de-vie.^ Pour in the sugar that you have just melted over the fire • ^^eat it continually until almost cold; then stir in 12 oz. of dried flour.^ ut It into a buttered tin into which you have strewn a little powdered sugar, and bake it for a good hour.