THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. J04 MARCH 2S. ‘ That which is to he laved long is to be loved with reason rather than with passion.'— Dr. Johnson. 1. Boiled Herrings. 1 3- Mashed Potatoes. 2. Broiled Fowls. 1 4* Sponge Pudding. 1. Boiled Herrings.—Yl&rxmgs that have been well powdered with salt for three days, and then plain boiled, will be found extremely delicate, served with parsley and butter. , . 2. Broiled Foivls.—Split them down the back; pepper, salt, and broil \ serve with mushroom sauce. • , • n A. sponge Budding.—Besit up 2 eggs with their weight m flour, m good tresh butter and in pounded sugar; add 2 drops of essence 0 lemon : when well mixed, pour it into 4 tea-cups, previously well buttered, and bake in a moderately quick oven. To be served with wine sauce in a boat, not poured over the puddings. march 26. ‘ Jt is the prerogative ministry and glory of womanhood to consecrate the meanest things by a which is not for self:F. W. Robertson. 1. Beef Soup. 2. Giblet Pie. 3. Potatoes. 4. Boiled Apple Dumplings. I. Beef Soup.-Cei0^p up \ lb. of gravy beef quite free from fa^ a put it into pints of water, cold; let it simmer over a slow fire for half In hour, skim it constantly, season it with salt to your taste, put in 4 cloves, and keep it over the fire for another half-hour; stram through muslin sieve, and serve with toasted bread. ^ _ 2 Gidlei Bie.-Tvto sets of giblets are requisite to make a moderate y- sized pie; let these be properly cleaned and half stewed; cut the liver into tLe pieces, the gizzard into tour, and divide the J separate the feet from the legs ; strain off the liquor, and put bo* t and the meat by till perfectly cold; strew a moderate “ pepper and salt over the giblets, and do the same steak the size of the bottom of your pie dish; arrange the gizza , n over the steak, pour in about a tea-cupful of veal stock, paste, and bake in a slow oven for an hour and a half The liquor Lm the stew will by this time be quite cool enough to skim away the