THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 220 paste with water that has had a little yeast stirred in it. ^ Cover it, and let it stand an hour or two; then make up the dumplings about the usual size of yeast dumplings, and boil them about twenty minutes. Serve with melted butter and sugar. JULY 31. * Sure He that made us with such large discourse. Looking before and after, gave us not That capability and God-like reason To rust in us unused.'—Shakspeare. 1. Salmon Pudding. 2. Haricot of Mutton. 3. Vegetables. 4. Souffle Pudding. 1. Salmon Pudding.—\ lb. of cold boiled salmon ; put it into a mortar; pound it fine, with 4 oz. of crumb of bread soaked in milk and squeezed dry, or 3 oz. of flour may be used instead; add the yolks of 5 eggs, i oz. of butter, a little essence of anchovy, and about half a pint of milk, or part milk and cream, and mix the whole well. Season with salt, pepper, and a little grated nutmeg; put it into a well-buttered mould; steam or boil one hour. Serve with white sauce in which a little essence of anchovy has been mixed, or, instead 0 anchovy, add some chopped capers and a little vinegar, or mth cucum- ber sauce. Any fish pudding may be made in the same manner; or, 1 made into a firm paste, it may then be formed into cutlets, egged bread-crumbed, and fried, and served as a side dish with either of th above-named sauces, or with sliced cucumbers. ^ 2. Haricot of Mutton.—and cut into thin slices 2 good-si carrots; put these into a saucepan containing 2 quarts ot boiling water; let it simmer over a slow fire for twenty pare and cut into squares, the size of dice, 2 turnips; add a head of Llery cut small, and a little pepper and salt. _ Whilst the ^ege a are stewing, put half a dozen mutton chops, with their fat cut off and well Ittenid, into the frying-pan, with sufficient butter to fry them a light brown, without risk of burning. When this is ““““f ’ put the meit with the vegetables, and let all stew together for half three-quarters of a pint of new milk into a stewpan, and when it boils ^^^“ThertS'ffilVote ot’Teggfwell tl7;1ir *em in, and the whites whipped to a very stiff fr®. When all are thoroughly well muted together, butter baking-dish, put it in, and bake it in a quick oven.