504 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. struck plants will beat the old plants now flourishing in the beds. One thing is essential to success, and that is, that the plants should have previously been little injured by frost. Those things that spread their roots far, as Heliotropes, are better secured in the shape of young plants. Scarlet Geraniums do well in many ways ; for instance, if you want a few tall ones for the centre of beds, raise and pot the plants, in the smallest pots in which the roots will go; remove most of the leaves, and, after watering, place them anywhere where they will be free trom frost and damp; if they had a little bottom heat, they would break away in no time. Another plan is useful for those who cannot keep young plants: take up the Geraniums (at least, as soon as the top leaves are touched with frost); cut the plants down to five to six inches in height, which will remove all the soft stems, and leave each head, like so many stag horns; then thin off all the roots to three or four inches in length, cut the tops close to a joint, and dip all these cut parts in a pot of lime, to dry up the wounds, after removing every leaf; then take these skeleton Geraniums and pack the roots as closely as possible in largish pots or shallow wooden boxes, every pot or box looking like a little faggot. A good-sized bed may thus be squeezed into a 12-inch poL Water, and when fairly drained and settled, cover the surface over with dry soil; and in any dry airy place, from whence frost is excluded, and even where there is little or no light, these plants will keep alive, and scarcely show any movement of growth until the month of March, when they must have light; and as the leaves get the size of a shilling, they must be turned out, and be potted or planted separately. Under such treatment, if after the pruning they were potted separately, or packed together, and placed in heat, they would soon begin to grow; but then they must have care all the winter. The rougher process minimizes care, position, etc. The variegated kinds do rather best when potted separately, and after more slight pruning and removing the large leaves, it is best to place them in pots just large enough to hold the roots, and in light soil, rather sandy than otherwise, and put them into a pit near the glass, and give them for a short time a gentle heat to start them afresh, and then gradually expose them to harden, when they may be placed on shelves and other vacant places in the greenhouse. When such treatment cannot be given the old plants, it would be wisest to let them alone, and secure nice young plants, by inserting cuttings in the end of July and the beginning of August. No cuttings of bedding plants will do much good now, unless they have the advantages of bottom heat and dry heat when necessary; and this involves much more labour and attention than if the plants were, like Geraniums, struck in the open air in August, or like Verbenas and Heliotropes in a cold frame or pit, at the same time where they could be shaded when necessary