BILL OB BABE BOB MABCIJ. 09 have ready a little onion boiled in 2 or 3 spoonfuls^of water; add to it some gravy, and the meat seasoned, and make it hot, but not to boil. Serve in a covered dish. 4. Bich Baked Apple Pudding.—Pare 12 large apples; take out the cores, and put them into a saucepan with 4 or 5 spoonfuls of water; boil them till they are soft and thick ; beat them well, and stir in i lb. of loaf sugar, the juice of 3 lemons, the peel of 2 lemons cut thin and beat fine in a mortar, 2 drops of oil of cinnamon, and the yolks of 8 eggs beaten up; mix all together, put it in a puff paste to bake it: when it is nearly done, throw over it a little grated loaf sugar. t •—0— MARCH 18. ‘ Where there is much light, the shade is deepest.'—Goethe. 1. Macaroni Soup. 2. Wild Fowl. 3. Sea Kale. 4. Lemon Pudding. 1. Macat oni Soup. Into a pan of fast-boiling water throw 4 oz. of macaroni, add i oz. of butter, and an onion stuck with a few cloves. AVhen the macaroni has swelled to its full size and become tender, drain it, and put it into 2 quarts of clear gravy-soup; let it simmer for seven or eight minutes, and it will be ready for the table. Serve ^Tated Parmesan cheese with it. ^ 2. Wila The flavour is best preserved without stuffing; put pepper, salt, and a piece of butter into each. Wild fowl require much less dressing than tame. A rich brown gravy should be sent in the dish; a squeeze of lemon, with pepper and salt, is a great improve- ment to the flavour. To take off the fishy taste which some wild fowl ave, baste m the first instance with hot water, with an onion and salt for about ten minutes ; then take it away, and finish with butter bastinu ^ Lemon Pudding.-H^V^ the yolks of 6 eggs well beaten, with 4 lb. of sugar; take \ lb. of butter melted in as little water as possible be careful not to oil it; keep stirring it till cold; then mix all together ivith the juice of 2 lemons, and the peel grated in. Cover you? dish with a thin puff paste, pour in the mixture, and bake it for half an hour.