3i6 things a lady WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. micelH, broken rather small, of boiling bouillon or clear gravy soup; let it simmer for half an hour over a gentle fire, and stir it often. 2. Vea/ Cutlets.—Take about 2 lbs. from the best end of a neck of veal, and divide it into cutlets all of the same size—that of a crown-piece, and rather more than a quarter of an inch thick. Dip them into the yolks of some beaten*eggs, and then cover them with bread-crumbs mixed with a little cayenne, salt, and nutmeg, a table-spoonful of minced herbs, and the peel of half a lemon chopped as fine as possible. Fry them a nice brown in butter. Toast an equal number of very thin slices of bacon, or ham, as near the size of the cutlets as you can, and roll them round. Arrange the cutlets in a pile in the dish; surround tliem with the rolls of bacon. Pour a little good gravy into the centre, and serve with mushroom sauce or without. 3. Maud Pudding.—EezX the butter to a cream, then add gradually the sugar pounded, and the grated lemon-peel; stir in the eggs well beaten, and then the flour dried before the fire. Beat all well together j half fill some cups or moulds, well-buttered, with the mixture, and put them into the oven the moment the flour is added. Bake them in a quick oven for half an hour, or longer should it be a slow one. Serve them quickly, with wine sauce poured over them. 4. Spinach.—Pick and wash the spinach carefully, then put it in an inner saucepan, without any water, and cover closely. Keep the outer saucepan nearly filled with water, which keep boiling. ^^Tlen the spinach is done, put it to drain where it will keep hot, but do not press it. Chop it small; add hard-boiled eggs chopped in, any quantity you desire; flavour it with a dash of nutmeg and some pepper; add a piece of fresh butter: beat the whole up with a fork, and return it to the inner kettle to stew for twenty minutes. Serve on buttered toast, and, if liked, add curled rashers of bacon, or chopped ham. Spinach juice for colouring is obtained by pounding raw leaves ; the juice must then be strained and boiled up. NOVEMBER 7. ‘ There is no action in this lije which is not the beginning of so long a chain of con-^ sequences, as that no human providence is high enough to give us a prospect to the end. —Thomas of Malmesbury. 1. Curried Cod. 3- Leche Crema. 2. Venison Pasty. 4- Vegetables. I. Curried Cod.—Take a piece of cod, pull it into large flakes, and fry it till brown ; put this into a stewpan, with half a fried onion. Pour over it sufficient good stock to cover it; add a tea-spoonful of curry