95 BILL OF FARE FOR MARCH. skim it carefully, and season the broth with salt and pepper to your taste; peel and cut into quarters half a dozen large and sound potatoes and 3 turnips; slice up 4 onions, chop up 3 heads of celery, and throw these into the broth, with a liberal handful of sweet herbs. Let all stew for four hours and a half over a low fire; strain off the liquor, take out the mutton, and force as much of the vegetable as possible through a sieve with a wooden spoon. Beat up the yolks of a couple of eggs in pint of cream, stir all well together, and warm it up for sending to table. 2. Savoury Omelet.—Cold fowl, veal, or veal kidney, are the best ingredients for this excellent dish; whichever you select must be chopped veiy fine, with an equal quantity of the lean of ham ; add i shalot, a little parsley, and pepper and salt. Mix the yolks of 3 eggs, and 2 tea-spoonfuls of flour, in a tea-cupful of milk. Beat up the whites of eggs separately; see that the frying-pan be quite hot, and the lard boiling, before you put in the meat and yolks, well mixed together; as soon as you begin to fry, add the whites, and mix them well with the other ingredients. Ten minutes over a slow fire will be sufficient. Brown with a salamandei; before you send it to table. 3. Apple Fritters.—Make batter as above, only thicker; pare apples, cut them in quarters, and core them ; then take up a quarter of apple, with some batter, and fry them on both sides, in hot fat, the same as pancakes. 4. Amber Pudding.—(Make this when eggs are cheap.) Put i lb. of butter into a saucepan with lb. of loaf sugar finely powdered; melt the butter, and mix well with it; then add the yolks of 15 eggs well beaten, and as much fresh candied orange as will add flavour and colour to It, being first beaten to a fine paste. Line the dish with paste for turning out; and when well filled with the above, lay a crust over as you would a pie, and bake in a slow oven. It is as good cold as hot. march 13. ‘ To love for the pure sake of loving is almost the characteristic of an ancreV— Lamartine. X. Fried Haddocks. 3. Potatoes. 2. White Fricassee of Rabbits. 4. Herefordshire Pudding. I. Fried Haddocks. —good-sized haddocks; wash and clean h m well; le, them lie .11 nigh, in ealt. When you 'are going ,o dress em, wash and wipe them dry; cut off the head, tail, Ld fins; skin