THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. j 62 4, COMPOTE DE PECHES. If you have not enough peaches to make a handsome dish of whole fruit you may cut them in half and stone them, using the blanched ker- nels’as an addition. Should you, however, be provided with an ample number, they are better dressed whole, extracting the stone or not at discretion. . ,, Scald the peaches for a few minutes, and then plunge them into cold water; remove the skins, and lay the fruit in a preserving-pan with a breakfast-cupful of water, a little currant or other juice to add colouring, and 12 oz. of refined white sugar. Do them very slowly, and when tender, put them into your dish. Boil down the syrup, let it cool, and pour it upon the fruit. C. BISCUIT SOUFFLES, Take the whites of 10 eggs, beat them to a snow, and add to them T2 oz. of powdered and sifted loaf sugar, and 3 oz, of candied citron chips beaten to a paste in a mortar, and moistened with white of egg; or in place of the citron, use an equal quantity of candied orange flowers reduced to a paste. Make up your biscuits in paper cases, glaze the tops with sifted loaf sugar, and bake in a slow oven for ten minutes. 6. PATE CROQUANTE A l’iTALIENNE. Beat in a mortar i lb. of blanched sweet almonds, i oz. of bitter almonds, the grated rind of a fresh lemon, a tea-spoonful of powdered clramon, and the white of an egg; make this into a paste. Boil down a pound and a half of loaf sugar with half a pint of water; withdraw 1 iwm the fire ; add your almonds, etc.; replace it on tlie fire, and con- tinue stirring until the paste adheres together and detaches itself from the sides of the saucepan. Be very careful that it does not burn Tmn it out into a dish, and when cooled enough, make it into small cakes, and bake gently. 7. BITTER ALMOND MACAROONS. Beat !n a mortar half a pound of bitter almonds and the whites of s ems ■ add a pound and a half of sifted loaf sugar, and, if required ■ IMe’more white of egg, to render it of the requisite moistness. Mai !.tto v“ry"mall bafs,’arrange them on paper, and place them mi gentle oven. When they are well set, glaze them, and return the oven to finish baking.