BILL OF FARE FOR APRIL. 1 = 5 which it touches bitter; a fowl should be so cleanly drawn as to require no washing, but merely to be wiped out with a clean dry cloth. Singe them; then press down the breast-bone. Break the legs by the middle of the first joint, draw out the sinews, and cut off the parts at the break. Put the gizzard in one pinion and the liver in the other, and turn the points on the back; put a skewer in the first joint of the pinion, and bring the middle of the leg close to it; put the skewer through the middle of the leg and through the body, and the same on the other side; put another skewer through the small of the leg and the sidesman, and another through the other side. Cut the head off close to the body, leaving sufficient skin to tie on the back Suspend it neck down- wards. Baste with butter for some time after putting to the fire. They will require from half an hour to an hour, according to the size. When fowls are large, they are very good stuffed like turkey. Serve roast fowls with melted butter or gi'avy sauce. Before you send them to table, remove all skewers and strings which may have been used in trussing. Fowls and all other feathered animals are served with the breast upwards. 2. Boiled Leg of Mullon.—If your pot be not long enough to let the leg lie straight, you may cut the tendon at the joint and bend round the shank. Do not put in too much water, as the liquor will make good broth. Throw a little salt into the water when you put in the mutton, as that will make the scum rise, which must be taken off clean. Let it boil slowly and equally; a good-sized leg of mutton, say of 8 lbs., will be done sufficiently in two hours. Do not boil turnips or any other vegetable with the meat, as they will flavour it, and prevent its keeping so well when cold. Dish it with a very little of the liquor, as, if the meat be good, and not too much boiled, it will yield sufficient gravy when cut. Mashed turnips form the appropriate vegetable to this dish with caper sauce. ’ APRIL 19. ‘ Sorrows rememhered sweeten present joy. ’ PoLLOK. 1. Pease Soup. 3. Vegetables. 2. Fricandeau OF Veal. 4. Rice Flummery. I. Pease Soup.—'S^odk. the peas all night in soft water; put them on with the water cold, and without salt. When quite tender and fallino- to pieces, squeeze them with the back of a wooden spoon through a large-holed cullender into a bowl; the skins and hard bits will remahi in the cullender.