177 BILL OF FARE FOR JUNE. a little peel; add a table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, warm it up in the same manner as the white mince, and garnish with sippets. 3. Pigeon Pie.—Place at the bottom of a dish a rump-steak well flattened and cut to the size; sprinkle a salt-spoonful of mixed salt and soluble cayenne over the steak. Stuff half a dozen pigeons with bread- crumbs well mixed with sweet herbs and egg; rub the birds over with fresh butter, and place them on the meat, filling up the spaces with the yolks of eggs boiled hard; when this is done, pour in veal stock till you nearly reach tlie brim; put on the top crust, and bake in a slow oven for an hour and a half. Before sending to table, make a small hole in the crust, and pour in some richly-seasoned gravy, boiling hot. It is usual to distinguish a pigeon pie by placing a pair of claws in the centre of the top paste. 4. Batter Pudding with Eggs.—Mix i lb. of flour with a pint of milk ; beat it till quite smooth; add a little salt and some powdered ginger. Boil it in a cloth one hour and a quarter. If prepared ginger be used, not quite a tea-spoonful; if the common powdered ginger, double the quantity. ‘ Every wife should knew the exact state of her husband's finances, understand his plans, and aid him, if possible, with her counsels.'—PROFESSOR WILSON. 1. Broiled Salmon.—Oil the fish in slices an inch thick, and season with pepper and salt. Lay each slice in half a sheet of white paper well buttered, hvist the ends of the paper, and broil the slices over a slow fire six or eight minutes. Serve in the paper with anchovy sauce. 2. Pork Kahob.—'&t\tz\. 4 pork chops, not too fat; peel 2 dumpling apples, and cut 2 slices from the centre of each, avoiding the core; cu° a Spanish onion into slices, select 4 of the largest; attach with small skewers to each chop a slice of apple and a slice of onion; fasten them together with twine, and roast before a bright fire for half an hour basting well. Serve them quite hot, with some fresh mustard, soluble cayenne, salt, and mashed potatoes. 4- Bakewell Pudding—Coyer a dish with thin puff paste, and lay on It any kind of jam an inch thick; then beat up the yolks of 8 eggs and he whites of 2, with ^ lb. of sugar, ^ lb. of butter, and almond flavour 0 taste; pour this mixture on the jam, and bake it in a moderate —0— JUNE 15. 1. Broiled Salmon. 2. PorkKabob. 3. Vegetables. 4. Bakewell Pudding. M