445 RECEIPTS FOR SAUCES. anchovies, some Chili vinegar, or cayenne, and from 2 to 3 table- spoonfuls of capers. When there is no gravy at hand, substitute a wine-glassful of mushroom ketchup or Harvey’s sauce, though these deepen the colour rather too much. To keep capers, add fresh vinegar that has been scalded and become cold, and tie them close to keep out the air, which makes them soft. Caper Sauce for Boiled Mutton.—3 or 4 good dessert-spoonfuls of capers into the third of a pint of good melted butter made very smoothly with milk; add about a table-spoonful of their liquor, or a little Chili vinegar; keep stirring it constantly; let the sauce just simmer. Some chop the capers once or twice. For a large joint, in- crease the quantity of butter to a pint. Pickled nasturtium pods are fine-flavoured, and by many are preferred to the capers. Cherry Sauce (delicious for boiled batter, or other sweet puddings). From June to August.—Stone i lb. of cherries, and pound the kernels to a smooth paste in a mortar; put i oz. of butter and a table-spoonful of flour into a saucepan. Stir them over the fire till of a pale brown, then add ^ pint of water, i wine-glassful of port wine to the cherries and pounded kernels. Simmer these gently till the cherries are quite cooked (this will be in about a quarter of an hour); rub the whole through a hair sieve ; then add 2 table-spoonfuls of lemon-juice, a little grated lemon-rind, 4 pounded cloves, and sugar to taste; boil the sauce for another five minutes, and pour over the pudding. Chestnut Sauce for Turkey or Fowls.—Peel off the outside skin of ■§• a lb. of chestnuts; put them for a few minutes into boiling water; take off the thin inside peel, and put them into a saucepan with 2 strips of lemon-peel and | pint of stock; simmer them about an hour and a half, till the chestnuts are quite tender. With a wooden spoon rub the whole through a hair sieve; add \ pint of cream or milk, with cayenne to taste. Then (do not boil) just let it simmer, stirring all the time ; serve very hot and quickly. A smaller quantity of thickening may be required, if milk is used instead of cream, according to the taste. Egg Sauce (very good for salt fish).—Boil 4 fresh eggs for quite fifteen minutes, then lay them into plenty of fresh water, and let them remain till they are perfectly cold. Break the shells by rolling them on a table, take them off, separate the whites from the yolks, and divide all of the latter into I inch dice; mince 2 of the whites tolerably small, mix them lightly, and stir them into the third of a pint of rich melted butter, or of white sauce. Salt as required; serve the whole as hot as possible. Add a little lemon-juice, if liked. Fennel Sauce for boiled Mackerel.—Dip a bunch of fennel into boilin«» salt and water, and boil for two minutes, squeeze out the water, and