BILL OF FARE FOR DECEMBER. 4. 'Vegetables. 2. Roast Hare. 359 4. Omelet Soitfflee.—Break 6 fresh eggs, separate the whites from the yolks, add to the latter 3 spoonfuls of powdered sugar, a spoonful of rice flour, and a little orange flower water; stir these well together. AVhip the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and stir them to the yolks. Pour the mixture into a buttered mould, rather more than half full; bake it in a moderate oven for half an hour. When done, turn it on a dish, and serve quickly. This omelet must be clear, and shake like a jelly. DECEMBER 22. ‘ Where is to-morrow ? in another world. For numbers this is certain: the rrjerse Is sure to none. And yet on this perhapsR This “ peradventure," infamous for lies. As on a rock of adamant we build Our mountain hopes; spin out eternal schemes. As we the fatal sisters could out spin. And, big with lije'sfuturities, expire.'—YoUNG. 1. White Potato Soup.—Cut a moderately-sized breast of mutton into small pieces, and put them into 3 quarts of water; make it boil; skim it carefully, and season the broth with salt and pepper to your taste: peel and cut into quarters half a dozen large and sound potatoes and 3 turnips; slice up 4 onions; chop up three heads of celery, and throw these into the broth, with a liberal handful of sweet herbs. Some cooks will add three leeks; but, with onions already in use, these Cambrian insignia are unnecessary. Let all stew for four hours and a half over a low fire; strain off the liquor; take out the mutton, and force as much of the vegetable as possible through a sieve with a wooden spoon. Beat up the yolks of a couple of eggs in j; pint of cream; stir all well together, and warm it up for sending to table. 2. Roast Hare.—In the west of England—and in no part of the world is good living better understood—a hare, after being properly stuffed, is basted for the first seven minutes with strong salt and water ; a fresh dripping-pan is then put under it, and milk is used, in which about ^ lb. of butter has been dissolved. The animal is dredged with flour occa- sionally ; and it is calculated by cooks who pursue this plan, that, when the eyes start from the sockets, the hare is fit to be sent to table. 3. Omelette Soufflee. Yolks of 7 eggs, whites of 8, ^ lb. of sugar, 2 dessert-spoonfuls of flour, a flavouring of vanilla. Beat the yolks of 7 eggs with 2 spoonfuls of flour, rubbed smooth in —0 X. White Potato Soup. 3. Omelette Soufflee,