BILL OF FARE FOR OCTOBER. 3C3 4. College Puddings.—h. ^ lb. of bread-crumbs, ^ lb. of Naples bis- cuits, ^ lb. of beef suet, 2 oz. of candied orange or lemon peel, ^ lb. of currants, 2 oz. of loaf sugar, yolks of 4 eggs. Mix the bread-crumbs, Naples biscuits pounded, beef suet chopped very fine, the candied orange-peel cut into shreds, the sugar pounded, and the currants washed and dried. Mix the above with the yolks of 4 beaten eggs till all becomes a paste; then cut them in pieces of a flat shape j fry them in lard over a gentle fire till brown, and put them on a napkin. Sauce in a tureen. —0— OCTOBER 2 5. ‘ The company in which you will improve most will be least expensive to you.’— General Washington. 1. Scalloped Oysters. 4. Vegetables. 2. Pie of Larks. 5. Cintra Fritters. 3. Stewed Steak. 1. Scalloped Oysters.—The true method of making this savoury winter dish is to have the scallop well buttered, then a thin coat of finely- powdered crumbs of white bread \ on this place as many bearded oysters as the shape will hold; over these strew a little salt and soluble cayenne, and 2 or 3 morsels of butter; then make a second layer of crumbs, and proceed as before directed till the shape be filled, then pour the liquor of the oysters over; put them into the oven for half an hour, and just before serving to table brown the top with a hot salamander. 2. Pie of Larks.—A dozen small birds, a rump-steak, a small bunch of savoury herbs, the peel of ^ a lemon, a slice of stale bread, i a cupful of milk, 6 eggs, pepper and salt, 2 oz. of butter, puff paste. Make a forcemeat with the slice of bread soaked in milk, and beaten up, a small bunch of savoury herbs chopped fine, and the peel of i a lemon minced, a seasoning of pepper and salt, a piece of butter, and the yolks of 6 eggs ; mix all together; put it into a stewpan, and stir it over the fire for a few minutes until it becomes very stiff, then fill the inside of each bird. Line a pie-dish with the rump-steak, seasoned with pepper and salt and fried lightly; place the birds on it, cover them with the yolks of the hard-boiled eggs cut into slices, and pour in a sufficient quantity of gravy. Put a paste round the edge of the dish, and cover it over with the same; glaze it with the yolk of an egg brushed over it, make a hole in the top, and bake it. 3. Stewed Steak.—Take some slices of beef, pepper and salt them well, slice up a couple of onions thin, and lay a piece or two of the fat of the steak at the bottom of a clean saucepan, then some of the onion, and on that some more steak, and so on alternately till you have put all