77 BILL OF FARE FOR FEBRUARY. FEBRUARY 2 4. * Cultivate modesty, meekness, prudence, piety with all its virtuous and charitable occupations, all beautiful an't useful accomplishmetits, suited to your rank and condition. These are the chief ornaments of your sex, and will render you truly lovely as women and as Christians.'—Vce.v. James Fordyce, D.D. 1. Fish Stew. 2. Cold Rolled Beef, with Horseradish Sauce. 3- Mashed Potatoes. 4. Macaroni Cheese. r. Fish Slew.—Make a strong jelly broth of skate; tlien boil a pair of soles till nearly done, and cut olf the fillets ; put the bones and fins to the skate, add the juice of a lemon, a tea-spoonful of salt, half a salt-spoonful of mixed soluble cayenne and powdered mace : let all simmer for half an hour over a slow fire, then strain off the liquor through a fine sieve, and warm up the fillets in it. Serve with parsley and butter. 2. Horseradish Sauce—for cold meats, very cheap and relishing. Pour a quart of the best vinegar on 3 oz. of scraped horseradish, i oz. of minced eschalot, and i drachm of cayenne. Let it stand a week. Horseradish is in perfection about November and December. 4. Macaroni Cheese.—Six oz. of Cheshire or Pannesan cheese ^ lb. pipe macaroni, lb. butter, i pint of milk and 2 of water; bread- crumbs, pepper and salt to taste. Put the milk and water into a sauce- pan, with salt to flavour it; and when it boils quickly, drop in the macaroni. Keep the water boiling till it is quite tender; drain the macaroni, and put it in a deep dish. Have the grated cheese ready, sprinkle it amongst the macaroni and some of the butter cut into small pieces, reserving some cheese for the top layer (which cover with some very fine bread-crumbs). Season with a little pepper; warm, without oiling, the remainder of the butter, and pour it gently over the bread crumbs. Place the dish before a bright fire to brown the crumbs turn It once or twice that it may be equally coloured, and serve very hot The riband macaroni does not require boiling so long a time The top of the macaroni is browned quicker in a salamander than before the fire; but never put it in the oven, as the butter would oil The macaroni must be tender, but firm, no part beginning to melt. It mav be boiled in water, with a little salt instead of milk, but should then have a small piece of butter mixed witli it