433 LIGHT DISHES FOR SUFFER. them thus prepared, put i|- oz. of fresh butter into a thick iron saucepan ; shake it over the fire until it Just begins to brown; throw in the mush- rooms; continue to shake the saucepan over a clear fire that they may not stick to it nor burn; and when they have simmered three or four minutes, strew them over with a little salt, some cayenne, and pounded mace; stew them until they are perfectly tender. Heap them in a dish and serve them, in their own sauce only, for breakfast, supper, or luncheon: nothing can be finer than the mushrooms thus prepared, and the addi- tion of any liquid is far from an improvement to it. They are very good when drained from the butter and served cold, and in a cool larder may be kept for several days. The butter in which they are stewed is admirable for flavouring gravies, sauces, or potted meats. Small flaps, freed from the fur and skin, may be stewed in the same way; and either these or the buttons served under roast poultry or partridges, will give a dish of very superior relish. Meadow mushrooms, 3 pints; fresh butter, 4^ oz.; three to five minutes; salt, I teaspoonful. Mace, half as much; cayenne, third of a salt-spoonful; ten to fifteen minutes. More spices to be added if required, much depending on their quality, but they should not overpower the flavour of the mushrooms. Oranges—a pretty Supper dish—November to May.—Ingredients: Six large oranges, i lb. loaf sugar, pint of water, i pint of cream, 2 table-spoonfuls of any kind of liquor, sugar to taste. Mode.—Put the sugar and water into a saucepan, and boil them until the sugar becomes brittle, which may be ascertained by taking up a small quantity in a spoon, and dipping it in cold water; if the sugar is sufficiently boiled, it will easily snap. Peel the oranges, remove as much of the white pith as possible, and divide them into nice-sized slices without breaking the thin, white skin which surrounds the juicy pulp. Place the pieces of orange on small skewers, dip them into the hot sugar, and arrange them in layers round a plain mould, which should be well oiled with the purest salad oil. The slides of the mould only should be lined with the oranges, and the centre left open for the cream. Let the sugar become firm by cooling; turn the oranges carefully out on a dish, and fill the centre with whipped cream, flavoured with any kind of liquor, and sweetened with pounded sugar. Bread and Butter and Anchovy.—The following, if nicely and fanci- fully moulded, makes a pretty breakfast or supper dish Wash, bone, and pound some anchovies well in a mortar; scald and chop some parsley, and rub it through a sieve; mix and pound all the ingredients well together, and make the butter into pats immediately. To each pound of butter, allow one small bunch of parsley and six anchovies.