HINTS FOR DEFORTMENT, ETC. 521 EMOTIONS OF ATTRACTION AND REPULSION, Most young women of resjiectable parentage and education believe that they love virtue and hate vice. But have they clearly ascertained what virtue and vice are? Have they examined the meaning of these two important words by the light of the world, or by the light of divine truth ? Have they listened to the plausible reasoning of what is called society; where things are often spoken of by false names, and where vulgar vice is distinguished from that which is sanctioned by good breeding ? Or have they gone directly to the eternal and immutable prin- ciples of good and evil, as explained in the Bible, which they profess to believe ? have they by this test tried all their favourite habits, their sweet weaknesses, their darling idols ? and have they been willing to abide the result of this test; to love whatever approaches that standard of moral excellence, and to renounce whatever is offensive to the pure eye of Omniscience ? Now, when we reflect that all this must be done before we can safely give ourselves.up either to love or hate, we shall probably cease to think that our great duty is so easily performed. There is, perhaps, no subject on which young women are apt to make so many and such fatal mistakes as in the regulation of their emotions of aUraction and repulsion; and chiefly for this reason because there is a popular notion prevailing amongst them, that it is exceedingly becoming to act from the impulse of the moment; to be vvhat they caU ‘the creatures of feelingor, in other words, to exclude the high attribute of reason from those very emotions which are given them, especially to serve the most exalted purposes. ‘ It is a cold philosophy, they say, ‘to calculate before you feel,’ and thus they clioose to act from impulse rather than from principle. In order to make the best use of time, we must lay out beforehand he exact amount proporhoned to every occupation in which we expect o engage. Casualties will perpetually occur demanding an additional allowance, and something must consequently be given up m exchange ; but still our calculations may generally be made with a degree of certainty which leaves no excuse for our being habitually at a loss what o do. Accustom yourself every morning to say what you are intending to do ; and every night, with equal faithfulness, to say what you have actually done during the day. If you find any material difference between what you have intended and what you have achieved, try to proportion them better, and the next day, either lay out for yourself or what IS far better, endeavour to accomplish more. ’ ’ You should always be able to say what you are doing, and not merely what you are going to do. ‘ I am going to be so busy-I am going to get to my work-I am going to prepare for my journey-I am