BILL OF FARE FOR OCTOBER. 307 OCTO B E R 29. ‘ Beware, so long asyott live, of judging men by their ottiward appearance,'— La Fontaine. I Soup a la Cantatrice. 2. Brown Fricassee of Rabbits. 3. Vegetables. 4. Amber Pudding. I. Soup d, la Cantatrice.—Excellent soup for the voice. 3 oz. of sago, half a pint of cream, the yolks of 3 eggs,^jc lump of sugar, and seasoning to taste, i bay leaf (if liked), 2 quarts of medium stock. Cut up into pieces about three inches square 4 lbs. of shin of beef, or 4 lbs. knuckle of veal, or 2 lbs. of each, and ^ lb. of lean bacon or ham. Rub 2 oz. butter on the bottom of the stewpan, put in half a pint of water, the meat, etc., and any bones, trimmings of poultry, or fresh meat, 2 large onions (each stuck with 3 cloves), i turnip, 3 carrots, I head of celery, 3 lumps of sugar, 2 oz. salt, half a tea-spoonful of whole pepper, i large blade of mace, i bunch of savoury herbs. Cover the stewpan and place it on a sharp fire, occasionally stirring its contents. When the bottom of the pan becomes covered with a pale jelly-like substance, add four quarts of cold water, and simmer very gently for five hours : do not let it boil quickly; remove every particle of scum whilst it is doing, and strain it through a fine hair sieve. This stock is the basis of most soups, and will be found strong enough for ordmaiy purposes. (Average cost, pd. per quart.) Mofe.—Uavmg washed the sago in boiling water, let it be gradually added in the nearly boiling stock; simmer for half an hour, when it should be well dis- solved ; beat up the yolks of the eggs, add to them the boiling cream, s ir them quickly in the soup, and serve immediately. Do not let the soup boil, or the eggs will curdle. Time, about forty minutes. Ihis is a soup, the principal ingredients of which (sago and escrs) have always been deemed very beneficial to the chest and throat, and 01 great advantage to the voice in singing. -Brown Fricassee o/Radhits.-Cnt a. couple of rabbits into joints ry ese in a little fresh butter till they become a light brown colour' SDoontl^'f 1 ^ ^ '"^ter, two table- coul f ? mushroom ketchup, and Reading sauce, a onions, a little soluble cayenne and salt. Stew over a Inlth'-'k strain the gravy pot U '“*■ “'i floui-iufcT 'Phree eggs; their weight in sugar, butter, and with Vour hanHiriir Gutter your hand till like cream; then add the flour, sugar, and beaten