THE ART OF COOKING. 19 in the liquor, and the peas, when sufficiently done, must be added. Some persons lay the peas in soak over night, but it is not a good plan. Green peas make an excellent soup in summer. The peas are boiled to a pulp and then rubbed through a sieve, afterwards flavoured with pepper and salt, and, for those who like it, an onion, a carrot, and a spoonful or two of catsup may be added; but these things tend to destroy the flavour of the peas. Stock.—Put in 10 lbs. of fresh killed shin of beef, and i pint of water; let it stand by the fire for an hour, then add f lb. of lean ham, 3 carrots, 3 onions, i small head of celery, 4 cloves, 6 allspice, 10 peppercorns, i tea-spoonful salt, do. mustard, i table-spoonful brown sugar, I large black onion, and 6 quarts of water. Simmer for six hours, skimming frequently. Strain through a fine hair sieve that has been dipped in cold water, into an earthen (uncovered) pan, and when cold remove the fat. It makes about 4 quarts, and what remains each day may be boiled up. ROASTING. Time-Table for Roasting. Ten lbs. of beef will take from two hours to two hours and a half roasting, eighteen inches from a good fire. Six lbs., one hour and a quarter to an hour and a half, fourteen inches from the fire. Three ribs of beef, boned and rolled, well tied round with paper, will take two hours and a half, eighteen inches from the fire, and only baste once. If beef is very fat, it does not require basting; if very lean, tie it up in greasy paper, and baste well. Eight lbs. of veal will take from one hour and a half to two hours, eighteen inches from the fire \ if stuffed, at least two hours. Chump, or loin and kidneys, of 4 lbs., will take one hour and a quarter j baste well. Six lbs. of breast, one hour, twelve inches from the fire. Six lbs. of the shoulder and neck, the same. Calf's heart, well stuffed, and tied up in paper, three-quarters of an hour. ^ A leg mutton, of 8 lbs., will take one hour and a half, eighteen inches from the fire. Saddle, 10 lbs., one hour and a quarter to one hour and a half, eighteen inches, measuring from the flat surface Shoulder, one hour and a half; loin, one hour and a half; breast, three- quarters of an hour; neck, one hour. * Lamb, according to size, but in the same proportion less than mutton but ought always to be well done, and placed nearer the fire • if a -ood fire, about fifteen inches from it. ’ ^ Pork should be well done. A leg of 6 lbs., with skin over, two hours.