64 things a lady would like to know. 2. Onwn Sauce.—Boi\ 4 onions in plenty of water for half an hour, with a tea-spoonful of salt in it; press out the water; chop the onions quite fine, boil them small; add ^ oz. of butter; serve in a tureen. 5. Cusiara Fudding.—Boil pi^ts of new milk, and when quite hot thicken it by stirring in finely-sifted flour; these must be well mixed; then add 2 table-spoonfuls of powdered sugar, I of a nutmeg grated, a tea- spoonful of lemon-peel chopped very small, a gill of Cognac brandy or Madeira, and 5“ eggs well beat up. When all these materials have been properly stirred together, place some light puff paste round the sides of a dish, pour in the custard, and give it half an hour’s baking m a moderately quick oven. FEBRUARY 6. ‘ Christianity does not so much pve us new aFections or faculties, as a new direction to those we already have.'—Hannah More. 3. Potatoes. 4. Snow Pancakes. 1. Pea Soup. 2. Remains of Cold Roast Shoulder of Mutton hashed. I Pea Soup —This soup should be made with liquor in which any kind of meat has been boiled, but the liquor of salt pork gives it a more savoury flavour. Wash i quart of peas perfectly clean, put them into a pot with the bones and 3 carrots sliced thin, and simmer gently foi about an hour; then add 4 onions cut in thin slices, a head of celery a few sweet herbs, and a few sprigs of parsley chopped very fine; and let the whole stew gently for three hours longer, taking care to stn it now and then, as the peas are apt to burn. Press the whole through a colander with a spoon, season it with pepper and salt to your palate, put it over the fire again to have it quite hot, and serve it up with some thin toasted bread, and some dried mint rubbed fine. 2 Remains of Cold Roast Shoulder of Mutton hashed.—Bm\. into a stewpan a dessert-spoonful of brown sugar, a large onion peeled and sliced and a table-spoonful of vinegar, and simmer till quite brown. Cut into neat slices about | lb. of cold roast mutton sprinkle over 2 dessert-spoonfuls of dried flour, a salt spoonful of salt, a salt-spoonful of black pepper, i a grain of cayenne. Put it in the stewpan with the onions • pour over \ pint of either gravy or water, 2 table-spoonfuls of walnut ketchup ; shake the pan frequently, and simmer and serve very hot, garnished with three-cornered sippets of toasted bread, placed round the hash at equal distances. , , 4. imw A»^4to.-Beat up i lb. of flour m milk till you have a stiff batter; add a spoonful ot salt, a quarter of a nutmeg grated. Divide