427 TEA. ‘ Nffw stir the fire, and close the shutters fast, Let fall the curtains, wheel the sofa round; And while the bubbling and loud-hissing urn Throws tip a steamy column, and the cups That cheer, but not inebriate, wait on each. So let us welcome peaceful evening in.'—CowPER. However careful some servants may be to procure the best water, almost every kind of water in use, except rain-water, will speedily cover the inside of the kettle with an unpleasant crust. This may be easily guarded against by placing a clean oyster-shell in the kettle, which will always keep it in good order, by attracting the particles of earth, or of stone, or of such peculiar salts as the water may be impregnated with. As a test in general to distinguish genuine tea from the sloe leaf, let it be infused, and some of the largest leaves spread out to dry; when the real tea leaf will be found narrow in proportion to its length, and deeply notched at the edges with a sharp point; whilst the sloe leaf is notched very slightly, is darker in colour, rounder at the point, and of a coarser texture. In preparing the tea, a good economist will be careful to have the best water; that is, the softest and freest from foreign mixture. If tea be infused in hard and in soft water, the latter will always yield the greatest quantity of the tanning matter, and will strike the deepest black with the sulphate of iron in solution; consequently, according to the technical term, it will always be found ‘ to draw best.’ In the management of the tea-urn it may be observed, that a polished urn may be kept boiling with a much smaller quantity of spirits of wine than when a varnished or bronzed urn is used, so that a silver uni is absolutely an object of economy. In order to make a good cup of tea, M. Soyer recommends that before pouring in any water, the teapot, with the tea in it, shall be placed in the oven till hot, or heated by means of a spirit-lamp, or in front of the fire (not too close, of course), and the pot then filled