THE PRESER VING OF VEGETABLES. 437 juice of a lemon squeezed over it, and half a tea-spoonful of salt. Let it be spread equally on a dish for serving, and divided into portions. Soluble Horseradish.—a stick of horseradish, and boil it in vinegar; when the liquor is strongly flavoured with the piquancy of the root, pour it upon salt. Many persons have been obliged to leave the table from the unpleasant fact of a long string of horseradish having become entangled in their teeth, and descending with the mouthful into the throat, but not going farther, and thus causing a sensation of suffocation. Such a trial of temper will be avoided by using the above preparation. To preserve Artichokes.—Having cut the tips of the leaves, boil the artichokes for five minutes, then set them bottom upwards; let them drain all night, put them in paper bags, and keep them in a dry place. Cabbages.—Small close cabbages, laid on a stone floor before the frost sets in, will blanch and be very fine after many weeks’ keeping. Green Peas.—Shell, and put them into a kettle of water when it boils; give them two or three warms only, and pour them into a colander. When the water drains off, turn them out on a dresser covered with cloth, and pour them on another cloth to dry perfectly; then put them in wide-mouthed bottles, leaving only room to pour clarified mutton suet upon them an inch thick; and for the cork, rosin it down and keep it in the cellar, or dig a trench in a part of the garden less used, sufficiently deep for the bottles to stand, and let the earth be thrown over to cover them a foot and a half. If a frost comes on, a little fresh litter from the stable will prevent the ground from hardening so that they cannot be dug up. When wanted for use, boil them till tender with a bit of butter, a spoonful of sugar, and a bit of mint. Another way—^practised in the Russian Emperor’s kitchen :—Shell, scald, and dry them as above; put them on tins or earthen dishes (in a cool oven) once or twice to harden; keep them in paper bags hung up in the kitchen. When to be used, let them lie an hour in water; then set them on with cold water and a bit of butter, and boil them till ready. ^ Put a sprig of dried mint to boil with them. Artichokes. Boil them till tender, let them drain, and serve them with melted butter. They must be well washed and soaked before cooking. Preserving Peas Green for Winter Carefully shell the peas, then put them in the canisters, not too large ones; put in a small piece of alum, about the size of a horse-bean, to a pint ot peas. When the camster is full of peas, fill up the interstices with water, and solder on the hd perfectly air-tight, and boil the canisters for about twenty minutes; then remove them to a cool place, and they will be found in