355 BILL OF FARE FOR DECEMBER. them stew very slowly for several hours, until quite tender; stirring occasionally, to make sure that nothing sticks to the bottom. You may serve the gravy with it, either just as it comes from the stewpan, or you may treat it as directed for stewing the loin. 4. Iced Chocolate Cream.—Half a pint of strong-made chocolate, i pint of milk, yolks of 8 eggs, a pint of thick cream, ^ a lb. of loaf sugar. Make a pint of milk very hot, sweetened with ^ a lb. of loaf sugar; then stir carefully into it the yolks of 8 well-beaten eggs and ^ a pint of strong-made chocolate. Put it into a jug, stand it in boiling water over a clear fire, and stir it one way until the eggs are set in the milk, but do not let it boil; then strain it through a fine silk or hair sieve, and stir into it about ^ a pint of thick cream. Freeze and mould it as other iced creams. —0— DECEMBER 18. ‘ Rot many lives, but only one, have we: How sacred should that one life ever be I Day after day filled up with blessed toil. Hour after hoitr still bringing in new spoil.'—Dr. H. Bon’AR. 1. Hare Soup. 4. Chocolate Cream. 2. Woodcocks and Snipes. 5. Vegetables. 3. Beefsteak Pie. 1. Bare Soufi.—One hare, li lbs. of gravy beef, i lb. of bones, a slice of lean bacon, a bunch of sweet herbs, i onion, a spoonful of soy, a little cayenne, salt, and 2 quarts of water. Cut an old hare into pieces, and put it into a large jar with i-l lbs. of gravy beef, i lb. of bones well cleaned, a slice of lean bacon, i onion, and a bunch of sweet herbs. Pour over it 2 quarts of water, and cover the jar well over with bladder and paper; set it in a kettle of boiling water, and let it simmer till the hare is stewed to rags. Strain off the gravy, add an anchovy cut into small pieces, a spoonful of soy, with a little cayenne and salt. Serve a few forcemeat-balls in the tureen! 2. ^ Woodcocks and Snipes.—'I'ne'&e birds should be roasted by the aid of a jack, or bird-spit, the thighs closely secured to the body by an iron skewer; let them be well basted, and have a bright fire; place toast under them to receive the trails. Twenty minutes’ roasting is sufficient for woodcocks, a quarter of an hour for snipes. Serve with lemon- juice and soluble cayenne. 3- Beefsteak Pte.—lnvexl a cupful of highly-seasoned stock in the middle of your pie-dish. Cut the steaks into pieces of convenient size for serving to each person, or less than that rather than larger. Dust them on each side with flour, pepper, and salt. Arrange them in the