?64 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. or rind of half a lemon, steep by the fire till well flavoured in an enamelled saucepan. Let it come to boiling point, and strain it Well whisk 5 eggs (if duck eggs, use 4), and when the milk is a little cooled, stir them in, and strain all into a jug., which place on a sauce- pan on the fire, and keep stirring one way until it thickens. It must not boil, or it will curdle and be full of lumps. Take it off the fire, and add I table-spoonful of brandy, mixing it well with the custard. —0— SEPTEMBER 9. * Religion ! providence t our after state ! Here is firm footing, here is solid rock , This can support us, all is sea besides. Sinks under us, bestows, and then devours. His hand the good man fastens on the skies. And bids earth roll, nor feels her idle whirl.'—Young, 1. Stewed Sturgeon. 3. Peas Pudding. 2. Boiled Leg of Pork. 4- Apple Pie. I. Stewed Sturgeon.—A good-sizfed slice of sturgeon, stewed for an hour over a slow fire, in a rich and well-seasoned beef gra\y, is an excellent dish. 3. Peas Pudding.—Pick and well wash the best split peas; tie them loosely in a cloth, and let them boil for two or three hours ; untie the cloth, and mash the peas with a wooden spoon till quite smooth ; put in a good lump of butter, and pepper and salt; tie up the pudding again, and boil it for another half-hour. 4. Afifile Pie.—YsiXQ, core, and cut into quarters 9 or 10 pippins or russet-coats ; pack them closely in a proper dish; add the peel of half a lemon chopped fine, half a dozen cloves, 2 table-spoonfuls of quince marmalade, 4 oz. of powdered sugar, and enough rose-water to moisten the whole; put on a top crust of puff paste, and give it an hour and a quarter’s baking. This pie is best warm, but by no means to be despised when cold. —0— SEPTEMBER lO. ‘ Nature is frugal, and her wants are few ; Those few wants answered, brings sincere delights, But fools create themselves new appetites .'—^oxr&G. 1. Pork Broth. 4- Vegetables. 2. Boiled Fowl. S- Apple Pancakes. 3. Boiled Pork. I. Pork Broth.—Cut the fat off some 4 or half a dozen delicate pork chops, then separate the outward skin from the fat, and put it with t e