284 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. small piece of butter. Truss your goose, and roast it at a brisk fire. Serve it with made gravy and apple sauce. When the taste is in favour of a milder seasoning, mix a handful of fine bread-crumbs with the other stuffing. Some fill their goose with potatoes boiled very dry, mashed and well mixed with butter, some salt and cayenne pepper: sage and onions are also added to this. A very good naixture can be made in the following manner:—A tea-spoonful of made mustard, a little salt and cayenne, mixed smoothly, with a glass of wine poured into the goose before it is served. 3. Eo//ea Pudding.—Four table-spoonfuls of arrowroot, i quart of new milk, 4 eggs, 3 oz. of butter or 3 large spoonfuls of rich cream, 3 oz. of bitter almonds, 2 table-spoonfuls of orange or rose water. OCTOBER 2. ‘ The eternal stars shine out, as soon as it is dark enough.'—Carlyle. 1. Fried Oysters. 3- Romford Pudding. 2. Patrician Bubble and Squeak. 4. Vegetables. 1. Fried Oysters.—Boil one minute 3 dozen oysters in their own liquor, and drain them; fry them with 2 oz. butter, ^ tea-spoonfiil of chopped parsley, i table-spoonful of ketchup, and a little chopped lemon-peel. Garnish the dish with toasted sippets, fried potatoes, and parsley fried. 2. Patrician Bubble and Squeak.—roast veal, divested of the outside skin, cut into bits about an inch long, with the white parts only of cauliflowers, previously dressed, and also cut up small] these wanned up in a frying-pan, in ^ a pint of cream, and seasoned with a slight sprinkling of salt and soluble cayenne, wiU be found a very delightful dish. 3. Romford Pudding.—the apples, and take out all the core ; fill them up with sugar, and place them in a pie-dish. Cover them with a light batter, and bake. —0— OCTOBER 3. ‘ With the wind of tribulation, God separates, in tiu floor of the soul, the chaff from the corn.'—Molinos. 1. Smelts. 2. Calf’s I-Ieart. 3. Stewed Rabbit. 4. Norfolk Dumplings. 5. Vegetables. I. W*.-To a dozen smelts have about J lb. butter, a blades of pounded mace, salt and cayenne to taste. Wash and well dry the fish