365 BILL OF FARE FOR DECEMBER. 2. Roast Leg of Pork, like boiled, must have been scalded. The skin is then scored (without cutting into the fat beneath it) to form the ‘ crackle.’ In roasting, this requires to be protected by oiled paper; if the fire is very fierce, to be removed towards the end of the process, in order that the crackle may be crisp and nicely browned. It therefore requires considerable attention all the while it is roasting. Roast leg of pork is best accompanied by mashed potatoes and apple sauce \ for which latter, peel, quarter, and core your apples, cut them into small pieces, put them into a stewpan with a tumbler of cider or (if you have none) water, the peel of half a lemon, and 3 or 4 cloves. Let boil till the apple is reduced quite to a pulp. Take out the lemon-peel, add the juice of a lemon, mix and mash all thoroughly together, and serve very hot in a small vegetable dish or sauce tureen. Roast leg of pork may be stuffed with sage and onions in the same way as with parsley. Chop the onions and sage leaves finely together; season with salt, pepper, and allspice, and ram them into the hole made in the pork to receive them. 3. Snow Pancakes.—Four oz. of flour, a ^ of a pint of milk, a little grated nutmeg, a pinch of salt, sufficient flour to make a thick batter, and 3 large spoonfuls of snow to each pancake. Make a stiff batter with 4 oz. of flour, a of a pint of milk, or more if required, a little grated nutmeg, and a pinch of salt. Divide the batter into any number of pancakes, and add 3 large spoonfuls of s7iow to each. Fry them lightly in very good butter, and serve quickly. I. Mock Turtle.—Take half a calf’s head, properly scalded and pre- pared, with the skin on. Take out the brains, and boil them separately in salt and water. Take out the bones of the nose, and wash the head in cold spring water. Put it on the fire in a large boiler or soup-kettle, in which it can be well covered with cold water; throw in a handful of salt; skim until it boils, and there remains no more scum to remove. Let it boil galloping a quarter of an hour or twenty minutes ; then take it out; throw away this first water, and put the head on the fire again in fresh hot water, in which it may boil until enough but not too much done. Any impurities which can reasonably excite dislike will have been removed by the first water and its scum. DECEMBER 27. ‘ Nothing earthly gives or can destroy . The souls calm sunshine and the luartfelt joy. ’—PoPE. r. Mock Turtle. 2. Snipe Pudding. 3. Omelet with Sweetmeats. 4 Vegetables.