* PARTY' DINNER FOR AUGUST. 411 spoonfuls of white wine, and a tea-cupful of veal stock; boil up quickly; skim; then simmer gently for three-quarters of an hour. Take out the sweetbreads; skim and strain the sauce; add the yolks of 2 eggs beaten with a gill of thick cream; boil two minutes. Take off the skin of 20 button mushrooms; throw them into a pint of boiling water, with a salt-spoonful of salt and the strained juice of a lemon ; boil fast for twelve minutes, and drain on a sieve. Boil 4 potatoes ; add half a salt-spoonful of salt, an oz. of fresh butter, a ^ of a gill of cream, and i well-beaten egg; beat with a wooden spoon till light; make up the potatoes into balls the size of a marble ; dip each into beaten egg, and put them into fast-boiling milk for two minutes, then drain on a sieve. Put the sweetbreads, mushrooms, and potato-balls in alternate layers into the bread case, and pour the sauce over; serve quite hot, with a neatly-rolled napkin on the dish. Note.—Make a paste; roll it out the last time an inch and a quarter thick; cut it with a vol-au-vent cutter six inches in diameter. Make an incision a quarter of an inch deep with a cutter an inch smaller; bake about three-quarters of an hour. Take out the centre. 5. Sirloin of Beef.—Beef should be kept a week or ten days when the weather will permit. Wipe the joint with a clean cloth; envelope it in thin paper, thickly spread with sweet beef-dripping; place the screen before the fire half an hour before putting down the beef; hang the joint before the fire for the first quarter of an hour near; baste; then withdraw it to a distance, and let it roast slowly till done; baste frequently from the commencement. Half an hour before serving take off the paper, dredge the beef slightly with baked flour, and baste it with 2 oz. of dissolved butter; place the beef on a hot dish; pour the dripping off; add a tea-cupful of boiling water and half a salt-spoonful of salt to the gravy dripped from the beef; pour it into the dish; garnish with horseradish, and serve at once. The time as follows ;— To be underdone, eleven minutes to the pound; with the gravy in, fourteen minutes; to be well done through, seventeen minutes; in frosty weather, two minutes to the pound must be added in each case. Note.—Horseradish, scraped or grated, should always be served with roast beef. 6. Zandrina Pudding.—Beat 6 oz. of butter to cream; stir into it, by degrees, 6 oz. ol dried flour, 6 oz. of sifted sugar, and the beaten yolks of 6 fresh eggs; when well mixed, add the whites of the eggs beaten to a froth and a wine-glassful of raspberry syrup; beat for ten minutes. Butter a mould, pour in the mixture, tie a cloth over, and boil fast for an hour and a half, or bake in a moderate oven a quarter of an hour less. Serve, with raspberry cream poured over the pudding.