453 RECEIPTS FOR SAUCES. away in a cool, dry place. It is ready for use when made, but is of a better flavour after a week or two. For immediate use, the skins should be put into a wide-mouthed bottle, with a little of the different ingredients, and will be nice for stews or hashes. Should it not appear to keep, turn it out, and boil it up with a little additional cayenne and ginger. Sauce Tournie.—Ingredients : One pint of white stock, thickening of flour and butter, a faggot of savoury herbs, including parsley, 6 chopped mushrooms, 6 green onions. Put the stock into a stewpan, with the herbs, onions, and mushrooms, and let it simmer very gently for about half an hour; stir in sufficient thickening to make it of a proper con- sistency ; let it boil for a few minutes; skim off all the fat; strain and serve. A little cream is considered by some to be an agreeable addition. Vanilla Sauce, for Puddings.—Stir well together 2 eggs well beaten in ^ a pint of milk and 2 oz. of sugar, and flavour with 10 drops of vanilla, or according to the size of the eggs or the strength of the essence. Then put all into a small jug placed in a saucepan of boiling water, and stir the sauce till it thickens, about eight to ten minutes; it will curdle if allowed to boil, and must be stirred one way. This sauce is nice for plum, bread, or any dry pudding, and is served separately in a tureen. The flavouring for this sauce may be varied, according to the ingredients in the pudding with which it is served. Walnut Ketchup (very fine).—Boil or simmer a gallon of the expressed juice of walnuts when they are tender, and skim it well; then put in 2 lbs. of anchovies, bones and liquor, 2 lbs. of shalots, i oz. of cloves, i oz. of mace, 1 oz. of pepper, and i clove of garlic. Let all simmer till the shalots sink, then put the liquor into a pan till cold; bottle, and share the spice with each. Cork closely, and tie a bladder over. It will keep tvyenty years, and is not good the first. Be very careful to express the juice at home ; the bought is rarely unadulterated. (Some make liquor of the outside shell when the nut is ripe, about September ; but neither the flavour nor colour is then so fine.) Procure the walnuts at the time when you can run a pin through them; this is about the beginning to the middle of July. White Sauce. Boil ^ a pint of new milk with half an inch of mace and two inches of thin peel of a lemon. Beat the yolks of 2 fresh ego-s with a gill of good cream. Strain the milk, and beat it by degrees into the eggs; then put the sauce into an enamelled saucepan, and stir over a gentle heat till it thickens. Serve immediately. Or, knead 3 oz. 01 fresh butter with a table-spoonful of baked flour, and stir into \ a pint of boiling milk. Boil ten minutes; add 2 table-spoonfuls of cream, and