BILL OF FARE FOR JULY. 205 JULY 12. ‘ The retiring graces have been always the most attractive.'— Rev. James Fordyce, D.D. 1. John Dory. 2. Pigeons Broiled. 4. Asparagus. 5. Mark Lane Pudding. 3. Fillet of Veal. 1. John Dory.—Prepare the fish as you do a turbot. Put it into a fish-kettle with sufficient water to cover it, with the salt in proportion to the quantity of water; bring it to the boil, and let it simmer gradually for about three-quarters of an hour—more or less, according to the size of your fish. Serve it in a neatly-folded napkin, and garnish with curled parsley and slices of lemon alternately. Lobster sauce, shrimp sauce, or plain melted butter, can be sent to table in a tureen. 2. Pigeons Broiled.—After cleaning them thoroughly, split the backs ; pepper and salt them, and rub them over with a little butter, broil them very nicely for about a quarter of an hour or twenty minutes with a moderate fire, and pour over them either stewed or pickled mushrooms in melted butter, and serve very hot; or parsley and butter. They should be stuffed like boiled fowls. 3. Fillet of Veal.—Veal requires a good bright fire for roasting, and twenty minutes for every pound should be allowed. Before cooking, let the flap be stuffed with a forcemeat, composed of 2 oz. of finely powdered bread-crumbs, half a lemon-peel chopped fine, a salt-spoonful of salt, and the same quantity of mixed mace in powder, and soluble cayenne pepper, the leaves of 6 stalks of parsley, and a tea-spoonful of dried sweet herbs; break up an egg, and mix these ingredients well together. Baste your joint with Iresh butter, and send it to table well browned. A nice bit of streaky bacon, or gammon, should invariably be served with fillet of veal, unless ham be provided. 4. Aspara^ts.—Cut the asparagus so that only the eatable part has to be dressed; set on water, and slightly salt it when it boils; put in the vegetables, which will take at least half an hour to cook; try it before you dish it. Have ready some toasted bread, and enough melted butter ffir the quantity of asparagus you have dressed; dip the toast quickly into the asparagus water, cut it into pieces of a convenient size for serving, place it on a dish, and cover with melted butter; then drain the asparagus, arrange it nicely on the toast, and cover with the rest of the melted butter. Serve hot. This is a much better mode of serving ffian the old way; it does not need tongs, an article not always found in small households. 5. Mark Lane Pudding.—Cut fine, stale bread in thin slices, boil i