248 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. breasts, and roast them at a clear fire, keeping them frequently basted. Just before they are done remove the paper, dredge them with flour, and baste them with butter warmed in the basting-ladle until they are nicely browned and have a frothy appearance. Then place them on a hot dish, pour a little brown gravy over them, and serve the remainder in a tureen with another of bread sauce. 4. Patty-pan Puddings.—Slice \ lb. of white bread ; put in a howl with 6 oz. of butter; pour i pint of boiling milk upon it, and let it stand uncovered; when cool, work well with a spoon, then add 6 oz. of sugar, 6 eggs well beaten, a little mace or nutmeg, grated lemon-peel, a little salt, and lb. of currants well cleaned and dried. Bake in cups or patty-pans, well buttered, in a quick oven; then turn them out on a dish, and serve them up with melted butter or sweet sauce. AUGUST 2 8. * Since trifles make the sum of human things, And half our misery from those trifles springs. Oh ! let the ungentle spirit learn from thence, A small unkindness is a great ofl'ence ; To give rich gifts, perhaps, vje -wish hi vain. But all may shun the guilt of giving pain.’—ll. More. 1. Boiled Eels. 2. Roast Leg of Mutton. Onion Sauce. Carrots. I Boiled Eels.—T\i& small eels are the best. Do them m sufficient water to cover them; add a bunch of parsley; when tender, they are done. Serve them up in a shallow tureen, with parsley and buttered sauce poured over them. . ,, 3 Lion Sauce.-Choose Spanish onions for sauce when obtainable^ Skin 4 large common or 2 Spanish onions ; cut them in quarters, an Lw\hei into cold water; drain and set them on the fire m cod water When they boil, draw them on one side to steii till tender, drain'through a colander, and, when pressed d^. the colander and return to the saucepan; dredge a 1 ri h ot hand, keeping the onion well stirred with the other to prevent lumps forming ; stir in a piece of butter the this is well incorporated, pour in a tea-spoonful sauce well. Add a little salt. The sauce should be of the consisten ct^rLxake 6 or 8 large carrots; clean, scrape, and cut them in rout slices. Put a os. of butter in a stewpan, with a table-spoon u of r^inced parsley, the same of onion, a little salt and nutmeg; add the