PRELUDE OF MOTTOES. U ‘Women are never so amiable as when they are useful.'—Cobbett, ‘ The foundation of domestic happiness is faith in the virtue of woman.'—Landok. ‘ She hath a natural wise sincerity, A simple truthfulness ; and these have lent her A dignity as moveless as the centre.’—J. R. Lowell, ‘ A world of comfort Lies in that one word, wife.—After a bickering day. To come with jaded spirit home at night. And find the cheerful fire, the sweet repast. At which, in dress of happy cheeks and eyes. Love sits, and smiling, lightens all the board.’—KNOWLES. ‘ Be good, sweet maid, and let who will be clever; Do noble things, not dream them, all day long; And so make life, death, and that vast for ever, One grand, sweet song.’—Charles Kingsley, ‘ How much is it to be regretted that women should ever sit down contented to polish, v/hen they are able to reform,—to entertain, when they might instruct! '—Dr. Blair. ‘All her luxury was doing good.’—Garth, • A good wife is none of your dainty dames, who love to appear in a variety of smts every day new ; as if a good gown, like a stratagem in war, were to be used but once.’— Fuller. 'Her sway is held on earth. Enthroned by native worth.’—Thomas Woolner. ‘ I am prejudiced in favour of her who can ask with a loving confidence,^ yet tvithout rudeness ; she has faith in humanity, she has faith in herself. No one who is not accus- tomed to’give generously, can ask nobly and with all faith.’-Lavater. • It makes us proud when our love of a girl is returned ; it ought to make us prouder still when we can love her for herself alone, without the aid of any such selfish reflection. This is the religion of love.’—Hazlitt. ‘ It is in the heart that God has placed the genius of woman, because the works of their genius are all works of love. Lamartine. ‘ TeU me a thing she cannot dress— Soups, hashes, pickles, pudding, pies; Nought comes amiss—she is so wise.’—Lloyd. Give me next good, an imderstanding wife. By nature wise, not leamfed by much art. Some knowledge on her side, will all my life More scope of conversation impart: Besides, her inborne vertue fortifie. , . c t- They are most firmly good, that best know why. SiR T, OVEKBURY. • Sweet the music of the step That meets us at the door.’—J. R Drake.