BILL OF FARE FOR JUL Y. 2II JULY 19. ‘ Yotir judgment will be seen in joining frugality and simplicity together; in being nruer fond of finery ; in carefully distinguishing between what is glaring and what is genteel; in preseiving elegance with the plainest habit; in wearing costly array but seldom, and ahvays with ease,—a point that may be attained by her who has learnt not to think more highly of herself for the richest raiment she can put on. ’—Rev. James Fordyce, D.D. 1. Grilled Salmon Cutlets. 3. Stewed Cucumber. 2. Epsom Grand Stand Pigeon 4. Curate Pudding. Pie. 1. Grilled Salmon Cutlets.—Cut two or three slices of salmon about an inch thick; rub a little oil or butter over them, and a dust of pepper and salt. Put them on a gridiron over a very clear fire; turn them occasionally until done, rubbing a little butter over them each time they are turned. When quite dressed, place them on a hot dish, and pour over them caper, tomato, or brown butter sauce. 2. Epsom Grand Stand Pigeon Pie.—Line the bottom of a pie-dish with lbs. of rump-steak cut into pieces about 3 inches square, sea- soning it well with pepper and salt. Clean the pigeons, rubbing them with salt and pepper inside and out, putting rather more than ^ oz. of butter into the body of each bird j lay them on the steak, and put a slice of ham on each. Add the yolks of 4 eggs, and half fill the dish with stock. Put puff paste round the edge of the dish j put on the cover j and put three of the feet, cleaned, in a hole at top of the crust. Brush it over with the yolk of an egg, and bake in about li hours in a well-heated oven. Pounded mace may be added to the seasoning, if liked, and each pigeon covered with a piece of fat bacon to keep them moist. 3. Stewed Cucumber. Select straightly-grown cucumbers for this purpose; cut off the peel, and divide them into quarters long-ways; take away the seeds, and place the quarters on a sieve to drain; when perfectly dry, cover them with flour j melt ^ lb. of fresh butter in the rying-pan; when it boils, put in the vegetables, and fry them till they are of a light brown; lift the slices carefully with a tin slice, and set fliem on a sloping slab to drain off the fat. Have ready some rich beef gravy, in which onions have been used; put the cucumbers into a stewpan covered with gravy, and let them simmer slowly till quite tender. Before serving, take out the cucumbers again, thicken the gravy with flour and butter, season it to your taste with salt and pepper, boil it, and pour it quite hot over the slices. ^«^^«.§.-Take two eggs in their shells, their weight in gar, flour, and butter; pound and sift the sugar, beat the butter to a