BILL OF FARE FOR JUL V. 2C^ JULY 14, ‘ Many a wife who is plunging her husband deeper and deeper into debt from ignore cnce, would, if she knew his embarrassmmts, be the first to retrench, the first to save, and with true womanly sympathy and generosity, help him to reinstate his falling for- tunes'—Professor Wilson. 1. Stewed Red Mullet. 3. Vegetables. 2. Casserole of Beef. 4. Strawberry Soufflee. 1. Stewed Red Mtdlet—Stew 2 or 3 mullets for about twenty or thirty minutes over a moderate fire, with 2 glassfuls of hock, i of sherry, a carrot and a turnip cut into slices, half a blade of mace, i large bay leaf, a bunch of thyme and parsley, and half a lemon sliced, with pepper and salt to your taste. When done, lay them in a hot dish, strain the sauce, thicken it with a piece of butter rolled in flour, pour it over the fish. Serve them up very hot 2. Casserole of Beef.—Make a brown sauce as for stewed steaks, cut some thin slices off the underdone part of a piece of roast beef, and put into the sauce to warm through, taking particular care that the sauce does not boil after the beef is added. Prepare some mashed potatoes ; make a rim with them round the inside of a dish, and put them into the oven to brown; when done, pour the beef and sauce into the centre, and serve with some pickles in a glass. 4. Strawberry Soufflee.—Stew the strawberries with a little lemon-peel, sweeten, then lay them pretty high round the inside of a dish. Make a custard of the yolks of 2 eggs, a little cinnamon, sugar, and milk ; let it thicken over a slow fire, but not boil; when ready, pour it in the inside of the strawberries beat the whites of the eggs to a strong froth, and cover the whole ; throw over it a good deal of pounded sugar, and brown of a fine bro^vn. Any fruit made of a proper consistence does for the v.-alls. JULY 16. ‘ Of all qualities, good temper is the one that wears and works the best in married life. Conjoined with self-control, it gives patience,—the patience to bear and forbear, to listen Without retort, to refrain until the angry flash has Smiles. 1. Toasted Mackerel. 3. Victoria Pudding. 2. Duck Stewed with Green 4. Vegetables. Peas. I. Toasted Mackerel.—To toast mackerel, they must be wrapped in fennel, and put upon the gridiron at a charcoal fire, turning them often.