THE GARDEN, AND GARDENING. t;ot Continue the planting out of tender annuals; these are very useful in the mixed borders to supply the vacancies which are always occurring through the plants going out of bloom ; take care that there is a reserve bed of those things to supply future vacancies of the kind. Patches of annuals sown last month must be well thinned out, and more may be sown for later blooming. Plant in the mixed borders a good number of Cuphea Platycentra and Strigulosa; they come in so cheerful-looking late in the autumn; and more especially if there are bees within travel- ling distance, they will be sure to find them out. The propagation of spring-flowering herbaceous plants must be finished off immediately. Pinks also, and Pansies, must now be propagated, the first especially, for forcing. For out-door work, the cuttings may be slipped off in the beginning of next month ; they will do best in sandy soil, under a hand- light. About the middle ot the month sow Brompton, Queen, and Emperor Stocks, to stand through the winter. Finish off the planting of Dahlias, and keep them well watered ; continue to give Roses thorough syringings, unless just when they are in full bloom, and also repeated doses of liquid manure. JULY. Bedded-out plants will now be started off into full growth, and will require to be trained out and nicely pegged down as they advance. The borders in the mixed flower garden will require to be kept up to the extreme of neatness, by staking and tying the plants as they require it, hoeing and raking the borders at short intervals, particularly after heavy rains, and clearing away all old flower stems and decaying leaves. A little dexterity in using the hoe will leave a regular surface without the use of the rake—it is one of those tools we dread to see in a nice bed or border^ many plants that are ruined by ‘ Mr. Nobody'may easily trace their destruction to a whip from the rake : for all such pur- poses we would keep that tool under lock and key. As Roses will now be objects of great attraction, they must have corresponding attention paid to them: nothing tends more to prolong the summer bloom than a constant supply of water and liquid manure \ dead flowers and insects must be constantly removed by handpicking; and when the bloom is over, use the syringe thoroughly. Lose no time in getting a good stock of Cloves, Picotees, and Carnations layered. If taken at the beginning of the month, much time will be saved by taking off cuttings, inserting them in sandy soil in pots, and placing in a sweet hot-bed, or inserting in soil over such a hot-bed at once. This may easily be done withou't disfiguring the old plants, not by cutting off the slips, but by catching each firmly above the second joint with the right hand, holding the shoot below with the left, then give a brisk pull, and the cutting will