BILL OF FARE FOR NO VEMBER. 315 NOVEMBER S. ‘ Thai ^ood sense which nature affords us, is preferable to most of the knowledge that we can acquire.'—COMINES. r. SOUFFLEE OF ClIICKEN. 3- LEMON DUjrPLINGS. 2. Cheshire Pork Pie. 4. Vegetables. 1. Soiifflie of Chicken.—Chicken legs, etc., f of a pint of white sauce, pepper and salt, i dessert-spoonful of chopped parsley and sweet herbs, 3 eggs, a few bread-crumbs. Take the meat from the legs of chicken, pheasant, or rabbit; take out the sinews; mince the meat very small by putting it through the mincing machine twice; boil it in a stewpan with white sauce, pepper, salt, and a little chopped parsley, or any other sweet herb; stir it on the fire till it boils; put into it the yolks of 3 eggs, whipped to a firm froth that will bear an egg; stir them lightly into the mixture. Bake it in a plain mould, with paper round the top to allow it to rise j bake it in a very quick oven. Serve white sauce or gravy round it. Butter the mould, and shake bread-crumbs into it previous to putting the mixture into it. 2. Cheshire Pork Pie.—Divide a loin of pork into chops, and cut away the skin and the greatest part of the fat; season the meat with salt, soluble cayenne, and a little nutmeg. Peel and core a dozen pippins, filling up the centres with fine Lisbon sugar. Line your dish with a good crust paste, then put in a layer of pork, then a layer of pippins, and so on till you have filled your dish; pour in a pint of sherry, and cover down with paste for top crust. Two hours’ baking will not be too much to ensure the meat being perfectly done. 3. Lemon Phtmflings.—Rdli a lb, of grated bread, ^ lb. of suet, i lemon, 4 oz. of loaf sugar, 2 eggs. Chop the suet very fine, and mix it with the grated bread, the sugar pounded, and the peel of the lemon grated; mix these all well to-' gether with 2 well-beaten eggs; make it into small balls, or boil it in a basin. NOVEMBER 6. 'Pleasure and actioit make the hours seem short.'—Shakspeare. 1. Vermicelli Soup. 3. Maud Pudding. 2. Veal Cutlets. 4. Spinach. I. Vermicelli Soup.—Vermicelli must not be kept too long in the house, or it will be unfit for table. If of very fine quality, it usually requires less boiling. Drop very lightly, and by degrees, 6 oz. of ver-