BILL OF FARE FOR SEPTEMBER. 2C7 m the pan. ^ lightly in butter; add the chicken, and lightly brown that. Put it all together into a stewpan, with sufficient water to just cover it. Simmer very gently for one hour. If made of dressed fowl, use gravy instead of water; but the curry made of a raw fowl is much richer. Serve with boiled rice prepared in the Indian way, 4. Alice Pudding.—Pour i pint of boiling milk upon 3 oz. of grated bread, ^ lb. of butter, and 4 eggs, leaving out 2 of the whites; add the rind of a large lemon, and sugar to thste. Place any sort of preserve at the bottom of a tart-dish; pour the above over, and bake. ■—0- SEPTEMBER 13. ‘ Divine authority within your breast Brings every thought, word, action to the test; Warjis you or prompts, approves you w* resBains, As Reason or as Passion takes the reins. Heaven fro7>i above, a)id Cottsciencefrom within, Ci'ies hi his startled ear, “ Abstain from sin." '—COWPER. 1. Cod. 3. Vegetables. 2. Fricandeau OF Veal. 4. Custard Pudding. 1. Cod.—The cod being thoroughly cleansed, a little salt should be mbbed over the thick part and inside of the fish, about an hour or two before dressing. Put sufficient water into the fish-kettle just to cover the fish; add a little salt, the proportion being 5 oz. of salt to every gallon of water; bring the water gradually to the boil, then skim care- fully, and let the fish simmer till done; take it out, drain it, serve on a hot napkin garnished with horseradish and sliced lemon. The sauce should be oyster sauce and plain butter. 2. Fricatideau of Veal.—Let the veal be well larded, and place it in the stewpan with the larded side uppermost; then add 2 large tumblers of water, 2 carrots in slices, 2 onions also sliced, a bunch of parsley, and a couple of cloves. Boil slowly for three hours and a half. Brown the veal with a red-hot salamander before serving, and add some stewed mushrooms. 4. Custard Pudding.—Two large spoonfuls of fine rice flour, a little salt, 6 eggs well beaten, some cinnamon, sugar to taste, and a pint of cream or new milk; stir it well, put in a cloth well floured, and boil tnree quarters of an hour; move it about some minutes after it is put