2 26 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. of celery, 8 lettuce leaves, a little tarragon and chervil, x lump of '""cut the vegetables in the French vegetable-cutter of any pattern you please or shape them with the ordinary vegetable scoop as you like best in the form of peas, olives, etc.; add the leaves and onions put them in a soup-kettle, fill it up with 2 quarts (or more as required) of clear stock, let it boil gently till the vegetables are done, add a lump of sugar, as is best in all vegetable soups, and serve this soup very hot. 2 Roast Wild Ducks.—the ducks are trussed, spit them, and put'them down to roast before a brisk fire, keeping the spit m rapid motion Baste them plentifully with butter, dredge them light^ with flour and send them up nicely frothed and browned, with a good ^avy in the dish. Before carving it, the breast should have a few incisions made across it with a knife, and a piece of fresh butter put on it; then cut a lemon across, on one half put a little salt, on the other a very small quantity of cayenne pepper; put the lemon together ^nd squeeze the juice over the ducks, then add a glass of warmed port wine, and vmir ducks will be re3-dy to Ccirve. i • 11 , tJeck of rra/.—Trim a neck of veal, and lard the fleshy part thic • y. Put'it into a souse for three or four hours, made with chopped parsley, 2 or a shalots thyme, sweet basil, mushrooms, bay leaves, 2 or 3 ^f oil. and aiitfle vinegar. Arrange it in an oval brazing-pan ita.h the souse and as much broth as will cover the larding t when done, dram dry, glaze it lightly, and serve it with white Italian sauce, or any puru 0 dish over the jam, and bake it. —0- AU GU ST 3. . Pn,d,ooe i, tU virtu, by M -as to, '1Y"" various circumstances of time and place. —MiltOzN. 1 Cabbage. 2, L‘:rRi'.s ^rpoau. 1 iNzHBaPunniao. Macaroni Scuf.-ttal into a stewpan "f macaroni, i oz. of butter, “ jt'^ery dry, and pour on it 2 macaroni has become quite ^ rinutes taking care fefdyt s”'t Sd be sent to table with grated Parmesan chees.