43 BILL OF FARE FOR JANUARY. blanched leeks intended to be used, well cleaned, and put in inch lengths or longer. Skim this carefully. In a half hour add the remain- ing part of the leeks, and a seasoning of pepper and salt. The soup must be very thick of leeks, and the first part ot them must be boiled down into the soup till it becomes a pulp. Serve the capon in a tureen with the soup. 4. Regent's Pudding and Sauce.—Beat together for ten minutes 2 oz. raisins stoned, 2 oz. currants washed and dried, 2 oz. of flour, do. of bread-crumbs, do. sugar, do. grated cocoa-nut, 4 oz. suet chopped fine, 2 eggs, and f gill of milk. Put it into a basin, tie a cloth over, and boil fast for three hours. Serve with a sauce made with a yolk of an I gill of cream, i oz. of sifted sugar, a table-spoonful of rum, and 10 drops of vanilla; beat all together till quite smooth, and pour over the pudding. JANUARY 15. ‘ To i/line own self be true; A nd it must foUoiv, as the night the day. Thou canst not then be false to any man.'—Shakspeare. 1. Rice Soup. 2. Boiled Round of Beef. • 3. Vegetables. 4. Boiled Batter and Sauce. 1. Rice Soup. To one quart of broth allow one ounce of rice. Let the broth boil, then thoroughly wash and pick the rice; put it into the boilingand let it simmer quietly for half an hour. Carolina rice IS the best for this purpose. 2. Boiled Round of Beef—it in a pan of cold water, cut out the bone, roll it round firmly and bind it fast with a broad tape; put it into the pot, and cover the lid close; keep it gently simmering, taking care to skim before it comes to a boil; allow a quarter of an hour to each pound of beef. 4. Boiled Batter and Sauce.—W\y. by degrees, that the batter may be smooth, a pmt of new milk with four table-spoonfuls of dried flour, and 3 eggs well beaten ; beat all together with a wooden spoon for a quarter of an hour; pour in the batter into a buttered basin; dip a cloth into boiling water, dredge it with flour, and tie over the basin; plunge it into fast-boihng water; move it quickly up and down for a few minutes, then boil tor an hour and a quarter. Serve with sweet sauce. hnv ‘^""'■^•-Knead 2 oz. of butter with a table-spoonful of ked flour, and stir m ^ of a pmt of boiling milk ; add 2 table^spoonfuls moist sugar, and boil five minutes; flavoured with wine, if liked