1S9 BILL OF FARE FOR JUNE. than a filbert, beat the sauce well up, add a heaped tea-spoonful of sifted white sugar, which beat in also. A few drops of essence of almonds give an agreeable flavour for rice, light suet pudding, or batter pudding. If the sauce is for currant, mince, or Christmas pudding, a glass of sherry or brandy should be put at the bottom of the sauce tureen, and the sauce poured on, beaten all the time of pouring. JUNE 28. *// M the beautifid necessity of our nature to love something.'—Douglas Jerrold. 1. White Soup. 4. French Beans. 2. -Roast Veal. S- Rhubarb Pie. 3. Boiled Ham. 1. White Soup.—Take the flesh from the legs and breast of a boiled fowl, lb. of veal cutlet, the crumb of two penny French rolls soaked in chicken broth, ^ oz. of rice boiled, and i oz. of blanched sweet almonds. Clear the veal and fowl from skin, fat, and sinews, and pound the whole well in a mortar, using a little veal consonim'e to moisten it in the pounding. When well pounded, add some more veal consottime, using about 2 quarts, and rub the whole through a tammy into a pot that is perfectly clean; let it boil for ten minutes or a quarter of an hour, keeping it well stirred; then add a glass of sherry and a quarter of a pint of good cream, but do not let it boil after this, or it will curdle; season with salt, cayenne, a little mace, and nutmeg. Keep it hot for serving in the bain marie (a vessel containing boiling water). Some pieces of bread fried of a light gold colour may be cut into dice, and served with the soup in the tureen. 2. Roast Veal.—Roast veal is much improved by a stuffing com- posed of chopped suet and parsley, lemon-peel, a little thyme, savoury, marjoram, a little grated nutmeg and bread-crumbs, seasoned with pepper and salt, all mixed together with an egg. The bones should be carefully taken out, and the stuffing put in their place ; then cover your veal with buttered paper to prevent it burning, and set it down before a strong, clear fire, not too close at first, as it requires more dressing than beef or mutton, it being extremely unwholesome it underdone. When nearly enough roasted, take off the paper and let it bro^vn ; sprinkle it with salt, and baste it well either with its own dripping, or, if there be not enough, with lamb dripping or butter. Garnish with lemon cut in quarters or sliced. ' 4. French Beans.—Cut off the two ends and string them, then split and cut them in two, throw them into a pan of clean water, and put