500 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. MAY. Early in this month commence planting the rooted runners of Nea- politan, Russian, and Tree Violets, in beds previously prepared by the addition of fresh compost, at from seven to nine inches apart, and take care during the season to give them abundance of water. Propagate also spring-flowering plants, such as Alyssum, Iberis, Arabis, Wall- flowers, and Arenarias, to be planted in the reserve garden when rooted. Sow a bed of German Asters and some hardy annuals in pots plunged in a shady place, for the purpose of filling up vacancies later m the season. The last week in the month will be the proper time to com- mence planting out the bedding-plants. Begin with the hardiest and well-hardened plants, particularly Verbenas and Calceolarias, leaving the tender sorts, such as Heliotropes, Petunias, Salvias, and others likely to suffer even from a slight frost, until early next month. Towards the end of the month, when the plants are large enough, com- mence planting in the mixed borders the tender annuals mentioned last month j choose dull days for the operation, and water through a fine rose to settle the earth about the roots. In all such watering, and especially in the case of bedding plants at all tender, it is well to water at the roots before all the earth is replaced, so as to have the surface loose and as dry as possible. For similar reasons, preventing loss of heat by evaporation, etc., it is advisable not to plant such things on a wet day or when the ground is wet, as then it takes great trouble to get the trampled ground sweet and friable. Roses should now have plenty of liquid manure and frequent syringings overhead. JUNE. As the season is now arrived in which it becomes an absolute neces- sity to get out the whole of the stock of bedding plants, such things as Turban Ranunculus, Hyacinths, and other bulbs which have been occupying the beds, must be taken up at any sacrifice ; they must there- fore be very carefully lifted without injuring the foliage, and plunged in sand for a time before being exposed to dry for storing; the next thing is to give the beds a little fresh compost, and proceed with the plantinp When all the bedding-out is done, let the surface of the beds be neatly levelled, and such as require it have the plants _ pegged doivm; it is of importance not to do this too soon, as a cold night that wfll not injure a plant growing upright will blacken and destroy a shoot of such plains placed in a horizontal position. Great economy will be gained by iuranging plants according to height, and so as to require no pegging.