126 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 2. Iricandtmi of Veal—Let the veal be well larded, and place it in the stewpan with the larded side uppermost j then add 2 large tumblers of water, 2 carrots in slices, 2 onions also sliced, a bunch of parsley, and a couple of cloves. Boil slowly for three hours and a half. Brown the veal with a red-hot salamander before serving, and add some stewed mushrooms. 4. Rice Flummery.—Boil with a pint of new milk a bit of lemon-peel and cinnamon. Mix with a little cold milk as much rice flour as will make the whole of a good consistence ; sweeten, and add a spoonful of peach water, or a bitter almond beaten ; boil it, but do not let it bum. Pour it into a shape or pint basin, taking out the spice. When cold, turn it out, and serve with custard. APRIL 20. ‘ In all the sciences, in every valuable profession, in the common intercourse of life, tn dress, etc., and, let me add, even in the sublimest subjects, ''simplicity ” is that which, above everything else, touches and delights.'—Rev. James Fordyce, D.D. I Roast Fowls and Bread Sauce 3. Vegetables. and Gravy. 4- Baked Apple Pudding. 2. Boiled Fresh Pork. 1. Roast Fowls and Bread Sauce and Gravy.—StuflF with sausage meat, and let the liver be roasted inside; and while the fowl is being carved, crush the liver with a very small fork, and put it^ in a small saucepan with the juice of a lemon, half a glass of red wine, pepper, and salt; give it a shake or two over the fire, and pour it hot over the cut-up fowl. 2. Boiled Fresh Fork.—Ts-ke a fat blade-bone of country pork, com- monly called the oyster; take out the bone, and put veal stuffing in its place; wrap it in a clean cloth, and put it into a saucepan of boiling water with a little salt; let it boil slowly for about an hour and a half, or an hour and three-quarters, according to the size: it should, however, be well done. Serve it up with parsley, and butter poured over it ^ Baked Apple Pudding.—and quarter 4 large apples ; boil them tender with the rind of a lemon, in so little water that, when done, none may remain; beat them quite fine in a mortar; add the crumb of a small roll, 4 oz. of batter melted, the yolks of S and whites of 3 eggs, juice of half a lemon, and sugar to taste. Beat all together, and lay it in a dish with paste to turn out