479 HINTS ON TRA VEILING. or those with you. In all my journeys I was always ready in time, but often with a good deal of bustling and hurry, till one morning in Swit- zerland I looked out of my window as I was dressing, and saw a gentle- man, who had just joined the party, pacing backwards and forwards before the inn with a degree of composure which made me determine to imitate what he told me was his constant rule, to be ready at least a quarter of an hour before the time. I adopted the practice thencefor- ward, and found the greatest advantage from it. One of the benefits of habitual punctuality is the confidence it inspires. The uncertainty of unpunctuality is a continual drawback to enjoyment; it hangs over one like a cloud. The quickest mode of acquiring a good idea of any place is to take the earliest opportunity of ascending some tower or eminence, from which there is a commanding view, with some person who can point out the most remarkable objects. If this is followed up by wandering about without a guide, and trusting solely to your own observation, you will be as well acquainted with the localities in a few hours as the generality ot travellers would be in a week, or perhaps better, because your im- pressions would be stronger. I do not mean by this to supersede the employment of guides in sightseeing, for they are very useful in saving time. The first day I arrived at Rome I met a classical friend who had been there some time, and who had made himself completely master of the place. He took me to the top of the tower in the Capitol, and pointed out everything remarkable, so that from the very beginning I acquired a sort of familiar acquaintance with the city and its environs, and was never at a loss afterwards. As soon as you have seen all you wish to see in any place, and do not mean to make it a residence, it is advisable without delay to proceed on your journey. Many people lose a great deal of time in loitering, and to no purpose whatever, because it is iihpossible under such circumstances to settle to anything. Wherever you are, it is good to fall into the customs and habits of the place; for though sometimes they may be a little inconvenient, it is generally much more so to run counter to them. Those who will have their own way, never succeed but at a much greater cost than success is worth.