BILL OF FARE FOR DECEMBER. 341 buttered paper. Secure the paper with string, and broil the cutlets so enveloped on a gridiron over a fire that is not too fierce. Make in a saucepan, with butter, vinegar, and the remainder of your mixed dressing, a sauce, to be kept hot till wanted. When the cutlets are thoroughly broiled, take off the paper, arrange them on a hot dish, and pour the sauce over them. 3. Fotato Fritters.—Boil and scrape fine 2 large potatoes; beat 4 yolks and 3 whites of eggs, and add to the above i large spoonful of cream, i large spoonful of sweet wine, a little nutmeg, and a squeeze of lemon. It will be extremely light, but must be beat half an hour at least. Put a good quantity of fine lard in a stewpan, and drop a spoonful at a time of the batter into it. Fry them a light brown and serve hot. Put the following sauce in a tureen :—A glass of white wine, the juice of a lemon, a dessert-spoonful of peach leaf, or almond water, or vanilla, and white pounded sugar warmed together. 1. Fried Soles, after thorough drying by pressing between the folds of a napkin, may be either rubbed in flour, or egged and bread-crumbed, or dipped in batter. Let the fat in which they are fried be hot and deep. It is absurd, because a sole is thin, to attempt to fry it in scarcely enough fat to keep it from sticking to the pan. Fry crisp to a nice light brown; serve on a napkin. Well-fried soles hardly require any sauce; nevertheless, you may send up with them a little anchovy or shrimp sauce. 2. Veal Sweetbread au Blanc.—Steep a couple of sweetbreads all night in cold water; peel off all their thin outside skin, and set them on the fire in a stewpan of cold water. When they are on the point of boiling, take them out and blanch them in two cold waters, and then return them to the stewpan in the water in which they were previously scalded. Add to this a couple of hearts of fine celery, a large onion, butter, salt, white pepper, and grated nutmeg. After boiling for half an hour, take them out and lay them on a dish on which you have put a large bit of butter and a couple of raw egg yolks. Now mix in a cup a spoonful of flour with half a pint of milk; stir this into the sweetbread boilings to make the sauce; add to it the juice of lemon, and pass it through a strainer over your sweetbreads. 'DECEMBER S. ‘ Whatever purifies, fortifies also the heartl—Blair. 1. Fried Soles. 2. Veal Sweetbread au Blanc. 3. American Pancakes. 4. Vegetables.