497 THE GARDEN, AND GARDENING. until next month. Plants reserved in the autumn for the purpose of fur- nishing spring cuttings, such as Heliotropes, Fuchsias, Lantanas, Cupheas, Verbenas, and Lobelias, should also be brought into heat to start; see also that a sufficient quantity of fresh dung and leaves are getting ready for a bed for striking these cuttings. Have some composts under cover ready for the earliest sowing of annuals next month : in the out-door department attend to neatness in the grass and the borders along the principal walks; trench up all vacant beds, adding some nice decayed leaf mould where necessary; thin out shrubberies, and, weather per- mitting, commence digging the same, keeping in mind, however, that established shrubberies will be best undug, and, if weeds appear, well hoed. If the hyacinths in beds are pushing through, it is a good plan to cover the beds with dry rotten leaves, or a mixture of dry earth, ashes, and a little lime, as the leaves, though well rotten, will present a rough surface in which slugs will hide during the day, and come out to forage at night. Bear in mind, that after this month every week will bring an increase of necessary operations; it is well, therefore, to be in advance. FEBRUARY. Preparations for summer display must have constant attention. Sow some of the most showy hardy annuals in pots, and place them in a frame on gentle bottom heat; these will flower very early. A- few may also be sown on a warm border, to transplant into the flower borders when they are dug up next month; dress the beds or patches of annuals which have been standing through the winter with soot and ashes to keep away snail; make up a good dung-bed early in the month, and commence striking the cuttings of bedding plants as soon as they are ready. When the first-potted bedding plants are well rooted, remove them to a cooler temperature, and supply their places with freshly-potted ones from the stores; bring forward the dry roots of choice Dahlias into heat, to furnish cuttings. The tall varieties ot Lobelias should be put into heat, and when started into growth, part and pot them singly into four-inch pots, and harden off when well rooted; shift Carnations and Picotees into their blooming pots at the end of the month ; protect choice Tulips and Hyacinths; fumif^ate Auriculas and top-dress them ; let them have plenty of air and projec- tion from frost and damp; commence the pnining of hardy Roses, also of climbing Roses on walls and trellises; where crowded, remove ex- hausted wood, and lay in young stuff. Dress over Scillas and choice Crocus with soot and ashes; also lay traps for mice, which are very destructive to crocus roots. Sow some pots or pans of German ten- week Stocks for early flowering, also a pan of Delphinum Chinense and