440 miNGS A LADY WOULD LILCE TO ENOW. orange-flower water, and you will have a delicious accompaniment to eat with a crust of bread or common cake. An Excellent Herring Salad {Swedish Recipe).—Soak, skin, split, and bone a large Norway herring; lay the two sides along a dish, and slice them slopingly (or substitute for this one or two fine Dutch herrings). Arrange in symmetrical order over the fish slices of cooked beetroot, cold boiled potatoes, and pickled gherkins; then add i or 2 sharp apples chopped small, and the yolks and whites, separately minced, of some hard-boiled eggs, with anything else which may be at hand, and may serve to vary tastefully the decoration of the dish. Place these ingredients in small heaps of well-contrasting colours on the surface of the salad, and lay a border of curled celery leaves or parsley round the bowl. For sauce, rub the yolk of one hard-boiled egg quite smooth with some salt; to this add oil and vinegar as for an ordinary salad, and dilute the whole with some thick, sour cream. About \ lb. of cold beef cut into small thin shavings or collops is often added to a herring salad abroad : it may be either of simply roasted or boiled, or of salted and smoked meat. Lettuce and Cream Salad.—Season the lettuce with vinegar, salt, pepper, and pounded sugar, all in sparing quantity. Then pour over it the thickest cream you can get, and mix it well in the bowl. This salad should be eaten directly it is dressed. The gos-lettuces are the best for it. Lobster Salad, and Dressing for ditto.—Best from April to October. —For the salad, i hen lobster, endive, lettuces, whatever small salad is in season, a few slices of cucumber, a little chopped beetroot, and 2 hard-boiled eggs. Wash the salad, and shake it in a cloth till thoroughly dry; break up the lettuces and endive ; pour the dressing on them, and lightly throw in the small salad. Mix all well together with the pickings from the body of the lobster; pick the meat from the shell; cut it up into nice square pieces; put half in the salad, and reserve half for garnishing. Separate the yolks from the whites of the 2 eggs; chop the whites very fine ; rub the yolks through a sieve, and afterw^ds the coral from the inside. Arrange the salad lightly on a glass dish, and garnish, first with a row of sliced cucumber, then with the pieces of lobster, the yolks and whites of the eggs, coral, and beetroot placed alternately, and arranged in small separate bunches, so that the colours contrast nicely. A tew crayfish make' a pretty garnishing to lobster salad. For dressing, to form a creamy-looking sauce, use 2 table-spoon- fuls of vinegar, 4 table-spoonfuls of oil, i tea-spoonful of made mustard, a quarter of a tea-spoonful of anchovy sauce, the yolks of 2 eggs, cayenne, and salt to taste ; to be mixed together till perfectly smooth.