514 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. whilst the process of digestion is going on. To this end, govern your temper,—endeavour to look at the bright side of things,—keep down as much as possible the unruly passions, discard envy, hatred, and malice, and lay your head upon your pillow in charity with all man- kind. Let not your wants outrun your means. Whatever difficulties you have to encounter, be not perplexed, but only think what is right to do in the sight of Him who seeth all things, and bear without pining the results. When your meals are solitary, let your thoughts be cheer- ful ; when they are social, which is better, avoid disputes, or serious arguments, or unpleasant topics. ‘Unquiet meals,’ says Shakspeare, ‘ make ill digestions; ’ and the contrary is produced by easy conver- sation, a pleasant project, welcome news, or a lively companion. I advise wives not to entertain their husbands with domestic grievances about children or servants, nor to ask for money, nor propound un- reasonable or provoking questions; and advise husbands to keep the cares and vexations of the world to themselves, but to be com- municative of whatever is comfortable, cheerful, and amusing. Self- government is the best step to health and happiness. Walker. In reflections on the absent, go no further than you would go if they were present. ‘ I resolve never to speak of a man’s virtues before his face, nor of his faults behind his back.’ A golden rule, the observation of which would, at one stroke, banish from the earth flattery and defamation.—Bishop Beveridge. Trust in God; distrust thyself; act with propriety; pray with sincerity; use small things, and shun the gxeat; hear much, say little ; be silent as to things hidden; learn to spare an inferior, to yield to a superior, and to bear an equal.—Bishop Beveridge. CIRCUMSPECTION. GOLD DUST. DUTY. you the mistress of a family? Fulfil the charge for which you •VI Ait froiicfpr vniir nroner occupation to a venience, If they be already negligent or dishonest, your remissness 3 their faults, while it continues your own loss and i^con- If their integrity be unsullied, they are ignorant of the