335 BILL OF FARE FOR NO VEMBER. NOVEMBER 2 9. ‘ Ktuno how sublime a thing it is to suffer and be strong.'—Longfellow. 1. Flemish Soup. | 3. Scalloped Oysters. 2. Boiled Turkey, j 4. Vegetables. 1. Flemish Soup.—Simmer in ^ pint of water for an hour, 10 moderate- sized potatoes, 4 onions, 5 heads of celery, 3 oz. of butter. Then fill up the stewpan with about 2 quarts of stock (this soup can be made with water instead), and boil gently about an hour more when the potatoes are done. Rub all through a tammy, and add ^ pint of cream (which has been previously boiled). Do not let it boil after the cream is put in. 2. Boiled Turkey.—Prefer a hen turkey for boiling, as they are the most delicate. It should also be of a moderate size, which will take an hour and a half to dress. Hang the bird for four days at least, and having plucked, drawn, and singed it, cut off the head and neck, and draw out the sinews of the thighs; cut off the legs at the first joint, and draw them inside the body; break the breast-bone, and skewer the ends of the pinions down to the tops of the legs, passing the skewer right through the bird; stuff the breast with forcemeat, sew up the opening, and set on to boil in hot water, skimming carefully until brought to the boil, then cover close to simmer slowly till done. Dish, and pour over the bird a little parsley sauce, serving more in a sauce tureen. The Forcemeat.—Of ham or lean bacon mince 2 oz. very fine; of parsley and sweet herbs, each i tea-spoonful; a. I of a. pound of veal suet, 6 oz. of bread-crumbs, the grated rind of | a lemon, with pounded mace, cayenne pepper, and salt to taste. Bind with 2 eggs. Note.—Boiled turkey may be served with parsley, white celery, mushroom, or oyster sauce. The stuffing should be in harmony with the sauce; thus, if mushroom or oyster sauce is used, a few minced should be in the stuffing. Ham, tongue, salt pork, or bath chaps boiled should be served with turkey. 3. Scalloped Oysters.—The true method of making this savoury winter dish is to have the scallop well buttered, then a thin coat of finely- powdered crumbs of white bread, on this place as many bearded oysters as the shape will hold; over these strew a little salt and soluble cayenne, and 2 or 3 morsels of butter; then make a second layer of crumbs, and proceed as before directed till the shape be filled; then pour the liquor of the oysters over, put them into the oven for half an hour and just before serving to table, brown the top with a hot salamander. ’