524 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOPF. EARLY INFLUENCE. At his first aptness the maternal love Those rudiments of wisdom did improve; The tender age was pliant to command ; Like wax it yielded to the forming hand ; True to the artificer, the laboured mind, With ease, was pious, generous, just, and kind : Soft for impression from the first prepared, Till virtue, with long exercise, grew hard ; With every act confirmed, and made at last So durable as not to be effaced. It turned to habit: and from vices free, Goodness resolved into necessity. ■—Drydcn. CORPORAL PUNISHMENT. Corporal punishment might soon be suppressed, did parents make it their constant care to render it unnecessary. Begin with your child in the cradle, and govern him by gentle methods. Do not accustom him to be shaken or slapped every hour of the day. You can so train him that violence will never be necessary. It is possible to guide with a look, reward with a smile, and punish with a froivn. Forbear threatening. It is probably even worse for a child’s moral nature to be accustomed to constant threats of the rod, than to be occasionally punished with it. You are to excite a fear of doing wong, not a fear of punishment. The former motive strengthens good principles; the latter, in its excess, always debilitates the character. Great harm is often done by punishing a child in presence of others. If whipping must be done, let it take place with the utmost privacy. This principle should be carried out in all methods of correction. Be sure a child understands your command before you rebuke him for disobedience. Cobhett. HUMAN LIFE. Pliny has compared a river to human life. I have never read the passage in his works, but I have been a hundred times struck with the analogy, particularly amidst mountain scenery. The river, small and clear in its origin, gushes forth from rocks, falls into deep glens, and wantons and meanders through a wild and picturesque country, nourish- ing only the uncultivated tree or flower by its dew or spray. In this, its state of infancy and youth, it may be compaied to the human mind.