448 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. Lemo7t Sauce for Puddings.—Rub the rind of 2 lemons with 3 oz. of loaf sugar to imbibe the essence. Put the sugar into a saucepan with a wine-glassful of gin, a wine-glassful of water, and the juice of the lemons, and boil till in a syrup. Then serve quite hot Lobster Sauce for Sahnon, Turbot, Brill, etc.—Pick the meat from the shells of a hen lobster, and cut it into small square pieces; put the spawn (which will be found under the tail of the fish) into a mortar with ^ oz. of butter, and pound it quite smooth; rub it through a hair sieve, and cover up till wanted. Put | of a pint of melted butter; put in all the ingredients except the lobster meat, and well-mix the sauce before the lobster is added to it, as it should retain its square form, and not come to table shredded and ragged. Put in the meat to get thoroughly hot, but not to boil, as the colour would be spoiled, and this sauce should always have a bright red appearance. If it is intended to be served with turbot or brill, a little of the spawn (dried and rubbed through a sieve without butter) should be saved to garnish with; very little must be used, as the flavour and goodness of this sauce much depends on having a proper quantity of spawn. The melted butter should be seasoned with salt and cayenne to taste, a little pounded mace (if hked), a table-spoonful of anchovy sauce, and 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of cream: the latter may be omitted if economy is desired, and the remains of a lobster may be used with care. Melted butter made with milk answers very well, and makes the sauce a nice white colour. Lobster Sauce for Boiled Turbot, etc.—It is almost indispensable that you procure a hen lobster in order to make this sauce as good as it should be. Take the meat out of the tail and claws of a fine fresh-boiled hen lobster; cut it into pieces the third of an inch square. Break up the head and shell, bruise a salt-spoonful of live spawn, put them into a saucepan with a pint of water and a blade of mace, and boil for twenty minutes. Strain through a fine sieve; put the liquor into a saucepaa Knead 6 oz. of butter with 2 table-spoonfuls of dried flour, and stir in. Boil a quarter of an hour; add the pieces of lobster and a dessert- spoonful of strained lemon-juice. Boil five minutes more. Stir in a wine-glassful of thick cream, and serve. This is sufficient for a turbot weighing 8 or 9 lbs. Maitre d' Hotel {Hot) Sauce, for Calf's Head, boiled Eels, and different Pish.—Ingredients : One slice of minced ham, a few poultry trimmings, I clove of garlic, i bay leaf, 2 shalots, f of a pint of water, 2 oz. of butter, I dessert-spoonful of flour, i heaped table-spoonful of chopped parslej, salt, pepper, and cayenne to taste, the juice of a large lemon, ^ tea- spoonful of pounded sugar. Put the minced ham at the bottom of the stewpan, and over it the poultry trimmings or veal (if they are not at hand), with the garlic, shalots, and bay leaf. Pour in the water, and let