228 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. sides are well browned. Send them to table with a fresh lemon and some mushroom ketchup. _ ct. Roast Leveret.—and truss a leveret in the same manner as a hare but roast it plain without any stuffing. Place it before a clea^ bright fire for about three-quarters of an hour, and baste it often with butter. About ten minutes before serving, dredge it lightly with flour to froth it nicely. Serve with gravy poured round it, and red currant ielly with it. ,i • «. r / North Country Pudding.—Viskt a hasty pudding with i pint of milk sweetened, a little salt, and flour to make it of a proper thickness; when boiled enough pour into a basin, cover with a plate, and let stand till the next day; then mash well with a spoon, and add \ lb. of clan- fied butter, i lb. of currants, and 2 oz. of candied lemon cut in thm slices. Bake in tea-cups buttered, turn out on a dish, and serve with raspberry vinegar sauce. j v -i 6. Buttered Allies.—Vsive 6 or 8 fine apples of a ffirm but g°od boil- in'^ kind, and core, without piercing through or dividing them; fill _ e cavities with fresh butter; put i lb. more, cut small, into a ^tewpan just large enough to contain the apples in a single layer; place them close y together on it, and stew them as softly as losstUe, turning t em occasion ally until they are almost sufficiently tender to serve; then strew upon thJm as much sifted sugar as will sweeten the dish highly, and a te spoonful of pounded cinnamon; shake these well in and ’ and stew it for a few minutes longer. Lift it out, arrange it m a ho dish, put into each apple as much apricot jam as it wiU contain, and ay a smaU quantity on the top; pour the syrup from the pan round, but no on the frffit, and serve it immediately. Particular care must taken to • keep the apples entire: they should rather steam in a gentle heat than boil If tL stewpan were placed in a very slow oven, the more regular heat would perhaps be better in its effect than the stewing. august S. ‘ Oh sisters ! let us leave the shame and sin Of talking vainly, in a plaintive mood. The holy name of grief I—holy herein, ^ That by the grief of one came all Mrs. 11.. UARKtl 1. Julienne Soup. 2. Roast Loin of Mutton. 4. Vegetables. 5. Hasty Pudding. Grouse. . , r 7- —Three-Quarters of a lb. of carrots, turnips, celey . large cabbage-lettuce; a little sorrel and chervrl