33° things a lady WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. water. Moisten the paste round the edge; roll out the remainder of the paste for a cover; close carefully round the edge; tie it in a cloth, and boil well for two or two and a half hours. When done untie the cloth, and turn it out into a deep dish; cut a small hole in the bottom, and pour in a little boiling water or good gravy, and serve. 3. Kice Dumplings.—Soak the quantity of rice required in lukewarm water till it is quite white; then parboil it, and drain off the water. Spread the rice upon a cloth, about an inch thick, and in a circle large enough to envelope a dumpling apple. The fruit must be peeled, cored, and filled with Lisbon sugar and a couple of cloves, and the rice carefully placed round it. As soon as this is done tie the cloth tightly at the top, boil for half an hour, and serve with melted butter or wine sauce. This is a very delicate dish, and well adapted for an invalid. —o~ NOVEMBER 2 4. 'Advice is seldom welcome; those who need it most like it least.'—Dr. Johnson. 1. Woodcock. 3. Apple Charlotte. 2. Veal Cutlets. 4. Vegetables. 1. Woodcock.—These birds must not be drawn. Truss the head under the wing, and the legs straight; hang them to the fire, legs down- ward ; baste with butter, and dredge the birds lightly with flour; have ready for each bird a slice of toasted bread without crust, and buttered on both sides, to place beneath the roast to catch the trail, this being regarded as superior to the birds themselves. Keep them basted con- stantly till done, which will be in from twenty to twenty-five minutes; put the toast on a very hot dish, having spread the trail evenly; lay the birds on the toast, and pour around them a little gravy. Send gravy also in a tureen. 2. Veal Cutlets.—Let the cutlet be about half an inch thick, and cut it into pieces the size and shape of a crown-piece. Chop the herbs very fine; mix them well with the bread-crumbs. Brush the cutlets over with yolk of egg, then cover them with the bread-crumbs and chopped herbs; fry them lightly in butter, turning them when required. Take them out when done. Mix about an oz. of fresh butter with the grated peel of half a lemon, a little nutmeg, and flour; pour a little water into the frying-pan, and stir the butter, flour, and grated lemon- peel into it; then put the cutlets into this gravy to heat Serve them piled in the centre of the dish with thin rolls of bacon as a garnish.