BILL OF FARE FOR AUGUST. 245 4. Brunswick Budding.—Cover a dish with puff paste ; spread it witli marmalade or raspberry jam the third of an inch thick; put 8 yolks and 4 whites of eggs in a pan with a ^ lb. of butter, and 6 oz. of lump sugar bruised; stir the whole on a slow fire ten minutes; when cold, put it in the dish, and bake. A custard poured over the fruit and baked makes an excellent pudding. AUGUST 24. ‘ The two powers which constitute a wise zvoman, are those of bearing and forbearing! —Epictetus. 1. Julienne Soup. 3. Vegetables, French Beans. 2. Haunch of Venison. 4. Winkin de Wordes Pudding. I. Julienne Soup.—Put 2 oz. butter into a saucepan; when it begins to melt, add an onion chopped very fine, and a spoonful of flour; stir together till it is quite red; then put in parsnips, carrots, celery, leeks, onions, lettuce, bruised peas and haricots, sorrel, chervil, turnips chopped up together. Place the saucepan on the stove, and simmer for an hour, stirring often to prevent burning; and when of a light brown, put in 3 quarts of veal broth ; let it boil and skim; afterwards add some thyme, bay leaves, garlic, and parsley tied up together, and let them remain. An hour before serving, add peas reduced to a pulp, a pinch of pepper, a little salt, and half a spoonful of brown sugar. Use plenty of leeks, but only the white part, and do not put in the stalks of the carrots. 2. Haunch of Venison.—This joint is trimmed by cutting off part of the knuckle and sawing ofif the chine bone ; then the flap is folded over; and It is covered with a paste made of flour and water. This paste should be about an inch thick. Tie it up in strong and very thick paper, and place it in a cradle spit very close to the fire till the paste is well hardened or crusted, pouring a few ladlefuls of hot dripping over it occasionally to prevent the paper from catching fire. Then move it farther from the fire ; take care that your fire is a very good one, clear and strong. When the venison has roasted for about four hours, take it up, remove the paper and paste, and run a thin skewer in to see if it is done enough. If the skewer goes in easily, it is dressed; if not, put it down again, as it depends greatly on the strength of the fire for so large a joint. When it is dressed, glaze the top and salamander it. Put a n round the knuckle, and serve very hot with strong gravy. Red currant jelly in a glass dish or a tureen. 4. de Wordes Budding.—One lb. of marrow, 1 lb. of sugar i lb. of bread-crumbs, 4_lemons, and 8 eggs. ^ ’ fix the marrow with the sugar, bread-crumbs, peel of the lemons