CONFECTIONERY, CARES, AND PRESERVES. 471 Plums, Preserved and Dry.—The Magnum Bonum Plum is the best fot this preserve. In season from August to October.—Have large ripe plums; prick them with a needle to prevent bursting, and simmer them very gently in a thin syrup, made in the proportion of a of a lb. of sugar to each pint of water. Put them in a china bowl, and, when cold, pour it over. Let them lie three days; then make a syrup of 3 lbs. of sugar to 5 lbs. of fruit, with no more water than hangs to large lumps of the sugar dipped quickly and instantly brought out Boil the plums in this fresh syrup after draining the first from them. Do them very gently till they are clear, and the syrup adheres to them; put them one by one into small pots, and pour the liquor over. Those you may like to dry, keep a little of the syrup for longer in the pan, and boil it quickly; then give the fruit one w'arm more; drain, and put them to dry on plates in a cool oven. These plums are apt to ferment if not boiled in two syrups; the former will sweeten pies, but will have too much acid to keep. Yoii may reserve part of it, and add a little sugar to do those that are to dry, for they will not require to be so sweet as if kept wet, and will eat very nicely if only boiled as much as those. Do not break them. One parcel may be done after another, and save much sugar. Raspberry Jam.—July and August.—Weigh a lb. of fruit to f of a lb. of sugar. Put the former into a preserving-pan; boil and break it; stir constantly, and let it boil very quickly. When most of the juice is wasted, add the sugar, and simmer half an hour. This way, the jam is greatly superior in colour and flavour to that which is made by putting the sugar in at first. Raspberry Vin^ar.—July or August.—To 6 lbs. of fresh fruit, care- fully picked, add 4 pints of the best French vinegar; macerate for four days in a glazed earthen pan, stirring frequently, but taking care not to crush the seeds. Filter the vinegar from the fruit, and to each pint of juice add 2 lbs. of loaf sugar. Place it in a glazed pan, in a hot water bath, and let the juice boil until it is as thick as syrup; it is then fit for bottling when cool. Rhubarb Jam.—February to May.—To each lbs. of rhubarb put I lb. of loaf sugar, i oz. of bitter almonds, and about half the juice, and the peel of a lemon chopped very fine. Boil it altogether half an hour, after it comes to boiling very gently, and keep stirring all the time. Cover with brandy-papers. Siawberries, Preserved Whole.—June and July.—Choose strawberries of a fine large sort, and of a good colour, but not too ripe. To every lb. of fruit allow lbs. of good loaf sugar, and i pint of red currant juice. Pick off the stalks; lay the strawberries in a dish, and sprinkle over them half the quantity of sugar, which must be finely pounded;