32T BILL OF BABE FOB NOVEMBEB. NOVEMBER 12. * Our actions are our (non: their consequetices belong to heaven'—P. Francis. 1. Vermicelli Soup. 4. Frank Sewell Tartlets. 2. Jugged Hare. S* Vegetables. 3. Eel Pie. 1. Vermicelli Soup.—Soak for half an hour a lb. of vermicelli (broken into inch lengths) in cold water, then drain it. Put it into a stewpan with 3 pints of boiling hot stock, 2 table-spoonfuls of grated Parmesan or Stilton, a tea-spoonful of fresh-made mustard, a salt- spoonful of loaf sugar, a salt-spoonful of salt, and simmer gently for good three-quarters of an hour, stirring frequently. Add another quart of stock, and a wine-glassful of Marsala or of sherry. Boil slowly about eight minutes longer, and serve with a separate dish of Parmesan oi Stilton cheese. 2. Jugged Hare.—Skin the hare, and cut it in pieces, but do not wash it; dredge it with flour, and fry it a nice brown in butter, seasoning it with a little pepper, salt, and cayenne. Make about a pint and a half of gravy from the beef. Put the pieces of hare into a jar; add the onion stuck with 4 or 5 cloves, the lemon peeled and cut, and pour in the gravy. Cover the jar closely to keep in the steam; put it into a deep stewpan of cold water, and let it boil four hours ; but if a young hare, three hours will be sufficient. When done, take it out of the jar and shake it over the fire for a few minutes, adding a table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, 2 glasses of port wine, and a piece of butter rolled in flour, with some fried forcemeat-balls. Serve with red currant jelly. 3. Eel Pie.-M.2kQ a good crust; clean, gut, and wash the eels well; cut them in pieces as for stewing; season them with pepper and salt and a little beaten mace, according to your taste. Line the .sides of your dish with crust, fill in the eels, and put as much water as the dish will hold, with a table-spoonful of ketchup; put on the cover, and bake it well. 4. Frank Sewell Whites of 3 eggs, 5 oz. of loaf sugar, some apricot jam or orange marmalade, puff paste. Beat the whites of the eggs to a froth, then stir in the loaf sugar pounded fine, and whisk it well to a very stiff froth; have ready some patty-pans‘lined ivith puff paste; put a spoonful of apricot jam or orange marmalade at the bottom of each, and bake them; and when taken from the oven, pile the froth on each. X