328 THINGS A LADY WOULD LUCE TO KNOW. Line a pie-dish with paste, put in the materials, and bake. Before serving, cover top with powdered sugar, garnish sides with candied fruit. NOVEMBER 21. ‘Adversity is the first path to truth.'—Lord Byron. 1. Cod and Oyster Sauce. 3. Rich Baked Apple Pudding. 2. Hashed Widgeon. 4. Vegetables. 2. Hashed Widgeon.—Cut the birds into joints; mix the juice of 2 Seville oranges with 2 table-spoonfuls of Reading or home-made sauce, a gill of port wine, a tea-spoonful of mushroom powder, and 4 artichoke bottoms broken into bits. See that you have enough to cover the flesh, ac^ding a little more of each liquid if necessary. Make it boil, and ten minutes before the hash is required put in the meat, and let it simmer gently for that time. 3. Rich Baked Apple Pudding.—Pare 12 large apples; take out the cores, and put them into a saucepan with 4 or 5 spoonfuls of water; boil them till they are soft and thick; beat them well, and stir in a lb. of loaf sugar, the juice of 3 lemons, the peel of 2 lemons cut thin and beat fine in a mortar, 2 drops of oil of cinnamon, and the yolks of 8 eggs beaten up; mix all together, put it in a puflf paste to bake iL When it is nearly done, throw over it a little grated loaf sugar. NOVEMBER 2 2. ‘Affectation is a greater enemy to the face than the small-pox.'—St. Evremond, 1. Roast Pheasant. 3. Baked Apple and Almond 2. Veal Curry. Pudding. 4. Vegetables. I. Roast Pheasant.—These birds should not be cooked till there is a slight change in the colour of the breast, and care should be taken not to pluck it till in a good condition to be cooked. It should be stuffed as follows :—Take 2 snipes, draw them, and put the bodies on one plate, and the livers, etc. on another. Take off the flesh, mince it finely with a little beef, lard, pepper and salt, and a few truffles, and stuff the bird carefully. Cut a slice of bread much larger than the bird, and cover it with the liver, etc., and a few truffles; an anchovy and a little fresh butter added will much improve it. Put the bread, etc. into