249 BILL OF FARE FOR AUGUST. carrots; shake them well over the fire, and when they have absorbed the butter, pour in half a pint of weak broth, and simmer till tender. Brown a table-spoonful of flour, and add to it the carrots; fry bread, cut in dice. Dish the vegetable, and put the fried bread amongst it. Roast pork or sausages fried is the favourite meat to be eaten with this dish of carrots. •—0— AUGUST 2 9. * It is the sole prerogative of Heaven Not to be tainted with the smallest error ; But that immunity was never given iTo earth. Wise Solomon, be thou the mirror , Where all may see their frailties, e'en with terror t Thou, moving m perfection's highest, sphere. Fellfrom thy orb ! Who hath not cause forfear ?'—Francis Hubert. 1. Abbotsford Soup. I 3. Cauliflowers. 2. Roast Loin of Pork. ‘ 4. Orange Pudding. 1. Abbotsford Soup.—Cut a pound of gravy beef into very small pieces; put them into a half-gallon jar; fill it up with every description of vegetables, even lettuces. Tie the jar over with a bladder, and put it over the fire in a deep saucepan of boiling water, or in the oven, which is far better, for at least six hours. 2. Roast Lorn of Pork.—Take a loin of pork of about 5 lbs., and score it with a very sharp knife at equal distances; place it at a good distance from the fire to prevent the skin from becoming hard, and baste it very frequently all the time. When done, make a little gravy in the dripping-pan, pour it round the meat, and serve with apple sauce in a tureen. A loin of pork may be stuffed with sage and onion, or the stuffing baked and served separately. 3. ^ Cauliflowers. Cut up L of ham or lean bacon, i onion, i turnip, and a little celery; put them in a stewpan with 4 oz. of butter; stir over a sharp fire for twenty minutes until a whitish glaze is formed; have 4 middling-sized cauliflowers thoroughly boiled and finely chopped, and add them to the contents of the stewpan, with a pint of water; stew till all is quite tender, then mix smoothly 2 table-spoonfuls of flour in a little water, and stir in. Put 2 quarts of white stock and i pint of milk, and keep it stirring until it boils. Season with salt and sugarrub the whole through a fine hair sieve, and boil up again for five minutes, and serve with fried bread. 4. Orange Budding.—Makt a light paste, and roll out to the extent, you require. Take the oranges, slice them with the rinds on, removing- carefully the pips or seeds from the pulp. Place a layer of fruit, well