244 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 4. CauUflower.—VixQ’iS the cauliflower in the usual way, only boiling it in equal parts of milk and water, to which a little butter should be added • when the flower is done, break it into sprigs. For one cauli- flower,’prepare 3 or. of rich, mild cheese by grating finely ; put half of it with a i lb. of fresh butter, and 2 table-spoonfuls of milk, a little salt and cayenne, into a stewpan and shake it over the fire till it comes to a boil then add the cauliflower; let the whole stew together for five minutes ; put it in a pie-dish ; strew over the top the remainder of the grated cheese, and brown it with a salamander or red-hot shovel held over the top. i. t, 1.4. Lemon Pudding.—^ lb. of loaf sugar and 6 oz. of fresh butter into a saucepan; set it over a slow fire till both are melted, stirrmg it well as it is liable to burn, but do not let it boil; pour into a basin and grate the rind of a lemon, and leave it to cool; have ready 2 sponge biscuits soaked in | of a pint of cream, bruise them fine and stir them into the sugar and butter; beat the yolks of 8 and the whites of 4 eggs with a little salt; squeeze in the juice of a lemon, and mix it well m, ay a puff paste in a dish, strew it with pieces of candied lemon-peel, put in the pudding, and bake three-quarters of an hour m a moderate oven. Sift fine sugar over. -0— august 2 3. : Our coiwersation should rather be laid out on things than persons.'-Q^. WAXrs. 1. Hotch-potch. 2. Wild Ducks. 3. Vegetables. 4. Brunswick Pudding. a pint of peas into a stewpan water, and boil them until they will pulp through a sieve. Then tale The lean end of a loin of mutton, cut it into chops, put ,t mto a steivpan with a gallon of water, the carrots and turnips cut into small pieces, an rseaLning of pepper and salt. Boil it until all the vegetables are qu,U tender ; put i/t" pulped peas, and a head of celery, and an onion sliced • let it boil fifteen minutes, and serve. , . , j 2 Wild Ducks.-N\x^^ the ducks are trussed, spit them, and pu fi * rlnwn to roast before a brisk fire, keeping the spit m rapid motioi. sTsTe them plentifully with butter, dredge them lightly with flour, an tts it with a unite, d v't;" smlS lemon across, on one ha p together and squeeze the Set'.S”ridd a glass of warmed port wine, and you, ducks will be ready to caive.