BILL OF BABB FOB FEBBO'ABY. 6S the batter into as many pancakes as you require, and to each portion add 3 table-spoonfuls of pure snow. .Fry in fresh butter. ^0— FEBRUARY 7. * It is a certain sign of aii ill heart to be inclmed to defamation.'—W. Dodd, LL.D. 1. Baked Cod. 2. Boiled Aitch-bone of Beef (save Liquor for Soup). 3. Carrots and Turnip. 4. Suet Dumplings boiled with THE Beef. 5. Orange Pudding. 1. Baked Stuff with a seasoning made of bread-crumbs, butter, salt, pepper, and (if agreeable) parsley and spices. Put the fish in a baking-dish, with a cupful of water and a lump of butter. Bake from three-quarters of an hour to an hour. 2. Boiled Aitch-bone of Beef {save Liquor for Wash the meat after it has been in salt for five or six days; if too salt, soak it for a few hours, changing the water once or twice. Put into a saucepan with water sufficient to cover, and when the water boils, plunge in the joint, and let it boil up quickly. Then put the pot to the side of the fire, and the water must only simmer gently for two and a half hours for a joint weighing 10 lbs. (or four hours for 20 lbs.). Carefully remove the scum from the surface of the water, especially for a few minutes after boiling Suet dumplings may be boiled with the beef. Garnish and serve with turnips, and carrots when in season. Save the liquor for soup S- ^«,.._Beat up the yolks of 8 eggs, grate the rinds of a couple of Seville oranges; add to these L of a lb. of finely-powdered sugar, the same weight of fresh butter, 3 spoonfuls of orange-flower water, 2 glasses of sherry, a couple of Naples biscuits, and a tea-cupful o cream; line the bottom, sides, and rim of a dish with puff paste pour in the ingredients, and bake for half an hour. FEBRUARY 8. One self approving hour whole years outweighs. ’—Pope. X. Soup from Remains of Aitch- bone OF Beef, with Vege- TABLES. 2. Roast Beef Tongue. 3- Mashed Potatoes. 4. Lemon Pudding. I. Soup from Remams of Aitch-bouc of Buf, with VcoetaHt! r„. : ■ pieces; put it into , quarts ot water; skim it; put b a t mace, some parsley, and a crust of bread; boiUn Toast bre H “ cut into dice. * ** bread, and £