* PARTY' DINNER FOR DECEMBER. 423 Lay them in the dish, with 6 oz. of butter (for 2 soles), and bake in a moderately-heated oven for half an hour, or forty minutes if the soles be very thick. Serve on a very hot dish, with the butter poured over, and a tea-spoonful of finely-chopped chives or parsley sprinkled over the soles. 4. Aitch-toneofBeef, boiled.—Put the joint into an iron pot, and cover it with cold water j boil up slowly, skim, then simmer as gently as possible till done. To be slightly underdone, allow eleven minutes to the lb.; just done, twelve minutes; and well done, thirteen minutes, after at boiling heat. In frosty weather, add a quarter of an hour to the whole time. If carrots be boiled with the beef, they will require an hour and three-quarters or two hours, according to size. Place the beef on a hot dish, the broad side downwards ; pour over it | of a pint of the liquor; garnish with carrots, and serve. Note.—Reserve the liquor in an earthen pan for soup. 5. Gravy Curry.—About a lb. and a half of veal cutlets, in pieces a of an inch thick and 2 inches square. Mix 2 table-spoonfuls of biscuit-powder with a salt-spoonful of mixed sweet herbs in powder, the same of pepper and salt. Dissolve a ^ lb. of butter; dip each piece of veal into the butter, then into the powder, and fry in the remainder of the butter till slightly browned on both sides. Slice 2 onions and a of a clove of garlic; knead 3 oz. of butter with 2 dessert-spoonfuls of curry-powder and i leaf of mint chopped fine; fry the onions in the butter till tender; then put in the veal and f of a pint of stock or gravy; simmer gently for three-quarters of an hour. Add the strained juice of a lemon, and serve, with or without rice. 6. Pheasant, with Truffles.—Wash, peel, and slice 6 large truffles ; put the truffles into the body of a young pheasant, nicely trussed ; pound the peel with ^ a clove of garlic, and knead it with i lb. of fresh lard. Put the pheasant into an oval deep dish or pan, cover it with the lard; add 3 sprigs of parsley, i sprig of thyme, a bay leaf, a salt- spoonful of salt, 4 peppercorns, the sixth part of a nutmeg grated, i clove, 3 slices of carrot, and a wine-glassful of rum; cover it closely, and put it into a moderate oven for three-quarters of an hour; then let it remain for two or three days to imbibe the flavour of the truffles. ■\\fflen required, take it out of the fat, envelope it in paper, spread thickly with butter, and bake in a moderate oven for three-quarters of an hour. Strain the gravy; add a tea-cupful of any stock, with a dessert-spoonful of baked flour, ^ a salt-spoonful of salt, the same of loaf sugar ; boil ten minutes ; take the paper off the pheasant; add the dnpped gravy and the butter to the rest. Place the pheasant on a hot dish, remove the skewers, pour over the gravy, and serve at once. 7. White Pudding.—lb. of fresh (pork) kidney fat, chopped, ^ a