THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 46 for an hour and a half. Before sending to table, make a small hole in the crust, and pour in some richly-seasoned gravy, boiling hot. It is usual to distinguish a pigeon pie by placing a pair of claws in the centre of the top paste. 4. Ptum-pudding.—T\it Muscatel raisins are but a little dearer than the ordinary ones, if bought loose instead of in bunches. Take lbs. currants, wash and dry them—do not chop, but stone them; cut i^'lbs. of Muscatel raisins, and cut into thin slices 6 oz. mixed candied peel; i lb. of Sultana raisins, 2 lbs. bread-crumbs, 2 lbs. of finest moist sugar, 2 lbs. of finely-chopped suet, the rind of 2 lemons, i oz. of ground cinnamon, i oz. ground nutmeg, ^ oz. bitter almonds, pounded: mix all these well together. Take 16 eggs (break each separately, lest any should not be quite fresh); let them be well beaten and strained, and moisten the above ingredients with them by degrees, stirring meanwhile ; then add I pint brandy; well butter and flour a stout new pudding-cloth ; and when all is thoroughly mixed, put it in the cloth, tie it down very tightly and closely, boil from six to eight hours, and serve with brandy sauce. As this is rather a large pudding, it may be as well to divide it, and boil one in a buttered mould. If liked, ornament the pudding with some sweet almonds, blanched and cut in strips. -0— JANUARY 19, * T/la^ work which is begun well is half done. And without prayer no work is well begun.'—Lady Fanshawe. 1. Winter Soup. 2. Boiled Breast of Mutton and Caper Sauce. 3, Vegetables. 4. Boiled Batter Pudding. 1. Winter Soup.—Tlo quarts of water put 2 or 3 pennyworth of bones and 2 lbs. of beef cut in small pieces, | lb. rice, a few sweet herbs, pepper and salt to taste, and a large bunch of parsley. A little oatmeal or some potatoes are a great improvement, 6 onions, and 6 turnips. Boil gently for three hours. 2. Boiled Breast of Mutton and Caper Sauce.—off the superfluous fat bone the meat, sprinkle over a layer of bread-crumbs, minced herbs, and seasoning; roll and bind it up firmly; boil gently for two hours. Remove the tape, and serve with caper sauce, a little of which should be served over the meat; boil two hours. 4 Boiled Batter Puddmg.—^cKS. in a pint of milk sufficient lemon- peel to flavour it; strain, and mix with it 2 tea-spoonfuls of flour, i of arrow-root, 2 oz. of butter, and sugar to taste; boil up for a few