i6o THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. absolutely necessary in order to remove the slugs with which this vege- table abounds, wash it thoroughly in several waters, and let it soak for full an hour before you dress it. Put it into a saucepan of boiling water, with a lump of salt, and when tender it will be done; let it drain in a cullender, and serve it up with melted butter. Some persons may prefer to see them brought to table whole, but they must then take the chance of being helped, along with the cauliflower, to some unsightly insect, which would be sufficient to disgust the least delicate stomach, besides, if properly boiled, and laid carefully in the dish, the pretty appearance of the vegetable is by no means destroyed by its having been MAY 31. Consult duty, not events.'—Hannah More. 1. Soup a l’Aurore. 2. Breast of Veal. 3. Vegetables. 4. Omelette Souffles. 1. Soup a rAttrore.—This favourite Parisian soup can only be inade when carrots are young. They must be scraped, cut into thin slices, and stewed in beef or veal gravy, then forced through a sieve, seasoned with salt and pepper to the taste, and warmed again for use. 2. Ereasi of Vea/.—Tut the joint into a stewpan two-thirds fiUedwith water next half a handful of dried marjoram and lemon-thyme, and an equal’ quantity of fresh parsley, 4 small onions, a tea-spoonful of powdered mace, 4 cloves, the peel of a lemon chopped fine, a tab e- spoonful of mushroom ketchup, and a tea-spoonful of salt; let it stew very gently for an hour and three-quarters ; take out the meat, run the eravy through a sieve, and, if it is not as thick as you desire, you may Idd butter and flour till you have made it of the proper consistency, pour as much as necessary over the joint, and keep the rest by, as a good foundation for any made dish of white meat. 4 Omelette Soufflee.-^rt^h up half a dozen eggs, separate the whites from the yolks, into the latter mix 2 table-spoonfuls of ^^^^d lemon- peel and 4 of finely powdered sugar; whisk up the whites for ten minutes add the froth to the yolks just before frying. Melt ^ lb. 0 wte n a pan, and put in the eggs; as soon as they are qmta set, S the frying-pan and turn them over. Have the dish on which you rler to sLv! well buttered, strew powdered sugar over the omelet, and brown the top with a salamander.