t3G things a lady would like to know. flowers in fine loaf sugar and a little water. Drain your petals, and throw them into the syrup ; let them simmer slowly for ten minutes, then put them away in pots, with the syrup in which they were done. For candying them, you must stir them over a slow fire until the sugar of the syrup again becomes a powder. Dry them for use. 5. PATE d’aMANDES CROQUANTE. Blanch a lb. of Jordan almonds, and place them in a very slack oven to dry Then moisten them with the white of an egg, and reduce them to a paste in a mortar. Put the paste into a saucepan, stir it over the fire until it becomes rather stiff; add gradually i-^ lbs. of powdered loaf sugar. Mix it well until the sugar is thoroughly dissolved; turn it out upon a slab or table, let it grow cool enough to handle, and make U into small biscuits. Stick some slips of blanched almonds upon the tops, and bake them slowly upon paper or tins. 6. MACARONS SOUFFLES. Take ^ lb of blanched sweet almonds, filberts, or pistachio nuts, cut them into very thin slips, rub them first in the white of an egg, and afterwards in 3 oz. of pounded and sifted loaf sugar. Spread thein upon a board, and put them into a dry place until the next day Then bLt the whites of 3 eggs until they are a firm froth ; mix *e^ lb of powdered loaf sugar, add your almonds, mingle well tOoethe , make up the paste quickly into small balls, put them upon paper, place them in a slow oven, and bake until they are of a nice colour. 7. GAUFRES. Gaufres are so essential to the dessert, that it is well worth our while tn urocure the apparatus necessary for making them. leat 4 eL, add i lb. of powdered sugar, i lb. of dried flour, i oz of orange flowers candied and beaten to a paste, and ^ mill in equal quantities, to make the mixture mto a thin batter. Heat your gaufre iroL, rub them over with a little butter, put in . tea-spoon- fuls o{ the paste, press the irons together, and place them in a pre ) ho oven for a mLte or two ; when one gaufre is done, do another rtil all the batter is employed. The flavour of the g^^es may b varied by substituting spices, almonds, eau-de-vie, or arasc in the candied orange flowers. 8. NOIX CONFIXES AU SUCRE. Take your young green walnuts when they are tender enough to prick with a pupate Aetn, and put them into salt and water. Prepare