286 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. the fire until quite hot; the steak should be more than ^ an inch thick; whilst dressing, turn it backwards and forwards till done; rub it over with butter, and pour over it, quite hot, two tea-spoonfuls of shalot vinegar, in which some soluble horseradish has been dissolved. In the season it may also be served with oyster sauce. 3. Sat/ce for ditto.—Set 2 oz. of butter in a stewpan over the fire, and when browning, throw in 3 onions cut into small slices; fry brown, but do not burn them; put i tea-spoonful of flour, shake the onions in it, and give the whole another fry. Put in salt and pepper to taste, with 4 table-spoonfuls of gravy or stock, and boil it gently ten minutes. Skim off the fat; add vinegar and made mustard, i tea-spoonful of each, and the juice of half a lemon give it one boil, and pour round the dish. 4. Orange Pudding.—Put a siuall piece of butter into a stewpan; break into it the yolks of 5 eggs, then grate the rind of the 2 oranges into it, and squeeze the juice in through a sieve to catch the seed sand pulp. Add as much lump sugar as will make it pleasant, the quantity depending on the acidity of the oranges, and stir it over the fire till it becomes as thick as custard. Line a tart-dish with puff paste, put in the orange custard, and bake it. OCTOBER 5. * The end of all is an action, not a thought, though it were of the noblest.'— Thomas Carlyle. 1. Fried Whiting. 3. Fried Parsnips. 2. Mutton Cutlets. 4. Plum Pudding. 1. Fried Whiting.—Clean the whitings, take oflf the skin, turn them round, and fasten the tail into the mouth; dry them in flour. Brush them over with an egg well beaten, roll them in bread-crumbs, and fry them in hot lard; and serve them on a napkin, garnished with fried parsley, and shrimp or anchovy sauce, separately. 2. Mutton Cutlets.—Trim the fat entirely from some cutlets taken from the loin ; dredge them carefully and moderately with pepper, and plenti- fully on both sides with flour; rinse a thick iron saucepan with water, and leave a couple of table-spoonfuls in it; arrange the cutlets in one flat layer, if it can be done conveniently, and place them over a gentle fire ; throw in a little salt when they begin to stew, and let them simmer as softly as possible, but without ceasing, from an hour and a quarter to an hour and a half. If dressed with great care, which they require, they will be equally tender, easy of digestion, and nutritious; and being at the same time free from everything which can disagree with the most delicate stomach, the receipt will be found a valuable one for invalids.