268 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 4. Custard Pudding. 2. Partridges. •SEPTEMBER 14. ‘ Speak not but what might benefit yourself or others; avoid trifling conversation'— Dr. Franklin. 1. Koasl Boned Leg of Mutton.—Procure a nice small leg of mutton, and remove the bone carefully; make a good veal forcemeat (to which about 3 oz. of ham or bacon must be added), and fill up the hole from whence the bone has been taken with it; cover the skin over, and sew it neatly up to secure the forcemeat Tie it round, and roast it for about three hours before a bright, clear fire. When it is done, remove the string, place it on a hot dish, and place round it some good brown gravy. 2. Partridges.—They will be all the. better for having been drawn as soon after they have come to hand as possible. Abstain from the common custom of sticking one leg through the other, as it renders the carving difficult. A good rich gravy sauce is essential with partridge, which, with all its flavour, is a very dry-meated bird. 3. Vegetables.—Take a bunch of turnips; pare, and, by the aid of a vegetable-cutter, form them into fanciful shapes. Boil till tender in weak broth, strain as dry as possible, and cover with white sauce, pu^ ting toasted sippets round the dish, unless served w'ith meat, then omit the sippets. jSfote.—Turnips eat best mashed. The best mode to dry them is to squeeze them in a delicately clean cloth, and to add to the butter used a little cream and flour; if stirred over the fire after this admixture, they can be served in perfection, namely, white and dry. 4. Custard Pudding.—\i you cannot procure cream, boil pints of new milk, and when quite hot, thicken by stirring in finely-sifted flour; these must be well mixed, then add 2 table-spoonfuls of powdered sugar, quarter of a nutmeg grated, a tea-spoonful of lemon-peel chopped very small, a gill of Cognac brandy or Madeira, and 5 eggs well beaten up. When all these have been properly stirred together, place some light puff paste round the sides of a dish, pour in the custard, and give it half an hour’s baking in a moderately quick oven. 1. Roast Boned Leg of Mutton. 3. Vegetables.