HINTS FOR DEPORTMENT, ETC. sn ADVICE TO A YOUNG WIFE. Among the minor virtues which tend to cement the bond of conjugal affection, the Christian female must not overlook that of personal neat- ness and self-respect, ‘ Rely not,’ says Mr. Jay, ‘ too much on the rights of relationship, however intimate the connection may be, and however endearing it ought to be. In preserving and keeping alive attachment, you must not absolutely depend upon the impressions that awakened it. A woman is not to presume on the certainty of homage, regardless of an attention to her manners. She is not, as soon as she has stepped over the threshold of marriage, to drop the delicacy, the decencies, the engaging appearance, by which she has attracted her lover. What attraction can there be in negligence, disorder, slattern- liness? A disregard of propriety, and especially neatness of apparel, is, in a female, a fault that nothing can expiate. Even religion will not excuse it. There is a greater connection between mental and outward purity than some are aware of. A female may be always judged of by her dress. The founders of Methodism were accustomed to say that cleanliness was next to godliness. I have known a few exceptions to this in men—I never knew one in a woman.' Perhaps the idea has already been implied, in the remarks on the preference that a wife should entertain for the society of her husband j but it had better -be repeated than omitted, or not clearly expressed,' that it is her duty to render herself conversable. When a man comes home, wearied with the labours and harassments of the day, he ought to find at home a comfortable fireside, and an intelligent and cheerful companion ready to receive and entertain him. That you may be well qualified to discharge this pleasing part of conjugal duty, it will be your wisdom to keep your attention alive through the day. Endeavour to inform your mind on subjects in which you know your husband takes an interest. In the course of your reading, mark a passage that you think will please him, or one that is not perfectly intelligible to yourself at first view, but on which you think he can give you information. Shun the real indolence and affected humility of saying, ^ Ah! it is all above my understanding. My husband is so learned, it is of no use for me to pretend to converse with him.’ The same exercise of atten- tion, recollection, and energy, which enables a woman to run down that incessant string of tattle and nonsense, which is justly the abhor rence of a sensible man, well directed, would abundantly qualify her to ]oin him m rational and improving conversation, at least as a humble learner; and m that capacity she would neither be contemptible nor disgusting, nor uninteresting in the eyes of a man of sense’ and