343 BTLL OF FARE FOR DECEMBER, saucepan a good lump of butter, with shalots and mushrooms minced very fine, and seasoned with salt and peppercorns. When it begins to heat, add two spoonfuls of good stock or gravy, and the liquor in which the eel was boiled. When this sauce is sufficiently reduced, arrange the pieces of eel on a dish, and pour it over them boiling hot. The flesh of eels being oily and viscous, they should be thorouglily cooked and rather highly seasoned (in whatever way they are dressed), to prevent their causing indigestion. 2. Haricoed Mutton.—Cut up a breast or a neck of mutton into pieces; brown them with butter in a stewpan over a brisk tire; when nicely gilt, take them out and drain. Peel and slice some turnips, and fry them also to a light brown on both sides; put them into your harico; moisten with broth, adding pepper, salt, parsley, onions, cloves, and bay leaf. Stew for half an hour, and take off the fat. If the sauce is too thin, reduce it by boiling. Pile your harico in the middle of the dish, and lay the turnips round it. The turnips in the harico may be replaced by salsify, potatoes, or carrots. Mutton is converted into Mock Venison by marinading with wine, vinegar, spice, and aromatic herbs. 3. Batter Fa?icakes.—Beat up 3 eggs with 4 large table-spoonfuls of flour; add half a pint of milk, or as much as will make the batter the consistency of cream, and a little salt; fry in lard or butter; grate sugar over the top of each, and serve directly with a lemon. DECEMBER 6. ‘ T call education, not that which is made up of shreds and patches of useless arts, but that which inculcates principles, polishes taste, regulates temper, cultivates reason, sub- dues the passions, directs the feelings, habituates to reflection, trains to self-denial; and more especially that which refers all actions, feelings, sentiments, tastes, and passions to the love and fear of God.'—Hannah More. 1. Kidney Soup. 4. Plum-Pudding. 2. Roast Snipes. Vegetables. 3. Beefsteak Pudding. I. Kidney Soup.—One bullock’s kidney, 3 sticks of celery, 3 or 4 turnips, 3 or 4 carrots, a bunch of sweet herbs, pepper and salt, a spoon- ful of mushroom ketchup, the liquor in which a leg of mutton has been boiled. Add to the liquor from a boiled leg of mutton a bullock’s kidney; put It oyer the fire, and when half done, take out the kidney and cut It into pieces the size of dice. Add 3 sticks of celery, 3 or 4 turnips, and the same of carrots, all cut small, and a bunch of sweet herbs tied