362 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. a mortar. Stir all well together, and lightly add the whites of the 6 eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Line a mould with buttered paper on both sides, pour in the mixture, and bake it in a‘moderate oven. When done, let it settle for a minute; turn it very carefully out, and strew sugar over the top. DECEMBER 25. * Must love be ever treated with profaneness as a mtre illusion ? or with coarseness as a mere impulse ? or with fear as a ma-e disease ? or with shame as a mere weakness ? or with levity aj a mere accident ? Whereas it is a great mysteiy and a great necessity, lying at the foundation of human existence, morality, and happiness—mysterious, uni- vei-sal, inevitable as death.'—Harriet Martineau. r. Soup. 2. Turbot. 3. Boiled Turkey and Sauce. 4. Ham. 5. Sirloin of Beef. 6. Sauce to Sirloin of Beef. 7. Christmas Pudding. 8. Sauce to ditto. 9. Syllabubs. 10. Vegetables. 1. Sotip.—One lb. of gravy beef, i pint of water, i carrot, i turnip, 1 onion, i clove. 2. Turbot.—It is a question of taste whether to cook it immediately it comes out of the water, or to keep it a couple of days, salting it at least one night. Most people prefer it in the latter condition; the flesh is firmer, and it has acquired more flavour. On the other hand, the sooner it is cooked after taking leave of the sea, the lighter and more digestible it is. Put your turbot in a fish-kettle three-quarters full of cold water, into which you have thrown a handful of salt. While boiling up, remove the scum as fast as it rises. As soon as it really boils, draw the kettle partially off the fire, allowing it only to simmer gently. The size of the fish must regulate the time it should remain in the water after boiling. A moderate-sized turbot will be done in from thirty to forty minutes; a small one in twenty; while it must be a very lar^e turbot indeed which takes a whole hour to cook. Give a final careful skimming before lifting the fish on its strainer out of the water. Let it drain a few minutes over the kettle ; have ready the dish with a napkm on it, and adroitly let the fish slide on to its snowy bed. Of course, the fish will have been laid on the strainer with the side uppermost which is wished to be so when served. 3. Boiled Turkey and Sauce.—Chop i| oz. of suet very fine (if butter is used instead, cut it in small pieces), with i pint of finely-grated bread- crumbs ; chop very small a faggot of savoury herbs, a salt-spoonful 0 grated nutmeg, pepper and salt to the taste; mix all thoroughly to*