BILL OF FARE FOR JANUARY. 51 •water. Put the pudding into a saucepan of boiling water, and let it boil without ceasing four hours and a half (never less time). Serve with plain sifted sugar only, a little of which may be sprinkled over the pudding.—Mrs. JBeeion's Recipe. JANUARY 2 4. ‘ Dress and undress thy soul: mark the decay And growth of it.'—Geo. Herbert. 1. OxHEAD Soup. . 3. Mashed Potatoes. 2. Sweetbread Pik | 4. Hannah More’s Pudding. 1. OxJiead Soup.—Prepare the day before. Soak an ox-cheek in a pan of cold water for a couple of hours, after which cleanse it well in two or three more waters; when thoroughly clean, put it into a saucepan with 6 quarts of cold water and a good lump of salt, and let it boil very gently on a slow fire for two hours, skimming off the scum as it rises, just before it comes to a boil; then lay the head in a dish, pour the soup into a pan and set it by in a cold place till next day, when you will find a good cake of fat settled on the top: this you must remove and set by, as it will be very useful to use in place of butter or lard. Then take all the meat off the bones into a clean pot, and cut into it 2 large onions, 2 turnips, 2 carrots, a head of celery, a few allspice berries, a bundle of sweet herbs, and a few sprigs of parsley; cover close, and let it stew gently till the carrots be soft, which will be in about an hour and a half; then put a lump of the fat which you took off the liquor into another saucepan, with a good spoonful or two of flour; shake and mix them well over the fire till well browned, then add a pint of your soup and let it boil up, when you may pour it into the rest, and add pepper and salt to your taste; let it simmer for half an hour, and serve it up. 2. Sweetbread Pie. Boil over a slow fire, in 4 quarts of water, half a neck of veal, and 2 lbs. of gravy beef, with half a tea-spoonful of grated nutmeg, equal quantities of mace in powder and soluble cayenne, and a tea-spoonful of salt; let this simmer till the liquor is reduced to about half a pint; strain this off. Have a good puff paste ready placed round the dish you intend to use, and put therein half a dozen sweetbreads stuffed with green truffles, a dozen of oysters with their liquor, taking care that the fish and meat are properly distributed; then fill the dish with the gravy before made, as above; put on the top crust, and bake in a quick oven for an hour and a quarter.