2o3 things a lady would luce to icnow. When roasted, they must be opened, and a good sauce made under them with butter, parsley, and gooseberries; the whole very well seasoned. It may be done over a clear cinder fire. 2. Duck Stewed with GTeen Peas,—Prepare a duck as for roasting, but do not stuff it. Put a small piece of butter in a stewpan, and nicely brown the duck, take it out, and brown a table-spoonful of flour in the remaining butter, and add to it half a pint of beef stock; let it boil, return the duck, put in also i quart of peas, with a bunch of sweet herbs, including a little mint and sage, cover close, and stew till done; remove the herbs, dish the duck, cover, and surround with the peas.^ 3. Victoria Pudding.—Make a custard with 4 eggs, i pint of milk, and f oz. of isinglass, flavouring it with vanilla and brandy; the vanilla should be cut into small pieces, tied up in a muslin bag, and boiled in the milk; the brandy should be added when cold—a very small quantity of the latter is sufficient Let the custard get quite cold, when it will become thick and lumpy. Dip a jelly mould into cold water, and with a spoon arrange the custard in the design at the bottom of the mould, carefully filling all the holes. Slice some penny spongecakes in halves dip them in sherry or Marsala, and place them in layers in the centre of the mould, with preserves (either strawberry or raspberrj') between each layer, filling up the space between the cake and the mould with custard, so that when turned out the custard appears as a crust around it. It should remain in the mould for at^ least twelve hours to stiffen. Turn out on a dish, and garnish with fruit jelly. * All essential transgressions of order, how successfid soever they may ouhuardl^ appear, shall certainly be punished by inward disquietude and homefelt nuanness. JULY 16. Rev. James Fordyce, D.D. 1. Jardiniere Soup. 2. Veal Cutlets. 3. Vegetables. 4. Windsor Pudding. fardinihe Soup.—C\xt the vegetables in the French vegetable ^ t 1 4-1,thf^ nrninarv veefe-