432 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. and bread-crumbs, and broil them gently until they are lightly coloured. The sausages thus made are extremely good; the fingers should be well floured in making them up. A small piece should be cooked and tasted before the whole is put aside, that the seasoning may be heightened if required. Broiled Bones.—If you desire a relish, and have in your larder either roast beef or mutton bones not too closely carved, score the meat, rub it over with walnut ketchup, and sprinkle it with soluble cayenne’and salt. Set them in a bonnet before the fire; when they begin to smoke rub a little fresh butter over them, let them be turned now and then, but take care they are not burnt. Beef cinders and broiled bones are very distinct affairs. Although originally dressed upon the gridiron, the above method will be found the most satisfactory. Sprats.—Sprats, when cleaned, should be fastened in rows by a skewer run through the heads, and then broiled and served hot. Cold Meat Puffs.—Cut the meat into small thin pieces, and season them with pepper and salt; mash very fine r^ lb. of cold boiled potatoes, and mix them up with a table-spoonful or two of flour and i egg; roll this out into a proper thickness for puffs, and make them up, putting into each puff about 2 oz. of the meat; fry them slowly, in a clean pan, on both sides, of a fine light brown. Stewed Mushrooms.—Take away the skin and stalks; strew a little pepper and salt over the mushrooms, then put them into a ste^vpan with \ a pint of cream. Keep stirring constantly, but with a gentle hand, not to break them ; when nearly done, add a little butter rolled in flour, to thicken the sauce. Stewed Cheese.— Good double Gloucester, whilst new, is the best cheese for stewing. Chop the quantity required into small portions, and put them in a basin, covering them with strong ale. Set the basin on the hob, or into the oven of a kitchen range, for three-quarters of an hour, stirring now and then. Toast some slices of bread, and make some fresh mustard, then pour the stew over the toast upon a hot plate. A little soluble cayenne pepper is an excellent addition to this supper dish. Anchovy Toast.—Make as many slices of toast as required; let these be fried in fresh butter, and whilst quite hot spread the fish upon them. Before making your toast, wash 2 anchovies for each slice, bone them, and force the meat through a coarse sieve. Mushroom au Beurre.—Cut the stems from some fine meadow mush- room buttons, and clean them with a bit of new flannel and some fine salt, then either wipe them dry with a soft cloth or rinse them in fresh water; drain them quickly; spread them in a clean cloth, fold it over them, and leave them for ten minutes or more to dry. For every pint of