91 BILL OF FARE FOR MARCH. bones and meat into a stewpan; add a little rice whole, a few sweet herbs, some pepper and salt; let it simmer over a slow fire for an hour, skimming every ten minutes. Strain it before serving. This prepara- tion should be, if properly made, perfectly transparent; and if intended for an invalid, its delicacy entirely depends on the attention paid to its skimming. 2. Veal and Ham Pie.—Cut 2 lbs. of veal cutlets into nice square' pieces, and put a layer of them at the bottom of your dish. Have ready minced 2 table-spoonfuls of savoury herbs, 2 blades of pounded mace, a strip of lemon-peel finely minced, tea-spoonful of grated nutmeg, pepper and salt to taste, the yolks of 2 hard-boiled eggs cut in slices; sprinkle a portion of these over the veal, then put a layer of boiled ham, cut very thin. Proceed thus till the dish is full, always having the ham (about \ lb. in all) at the top. Lay a puff paste on the edge of the dish, and pour in about half a pint of water. Cover with crust, ornamented with leaves ; brush it over with the yolk of an egg, and bake it from one hour to an hour and a half in a well-heated oven. Should the pie be very large, bake longer time. (This pie will be much improved and enriched by adding a few mushrooms, oysters, or sweet-' breads.) When the pie is taken out of the oven, pour in at the top through a funnel nearly half a pint of strong gravy, which must be suffi- ciently good to cut in a firm jelly when cold. 4. Apple Du7/iplijigs.—M.skt a good paste; pare some large apples, cut them in quarters, take out the cores, and in place of them put in a clove and a piece of lemon-peel cut very thin; take a piece of crust enough for i apple, roll it round, put the quarters together, and roll the crust round it with a little flour in your hand. Have a pot of water boiling j take a clean cloth, dip it into the water, shake flour over it, and tie each dumpling by itself; put them in, and keep the water boiling all the time : if the apples be not large, half an hour will boil them. When they are done enough, take them up, lay them on a dish, throw fine sugar over them, and send them to table with fresh-melted butter in a boat, and fine-beaten sugar in a saucer. Some persons boil apple dumplings without tying them in a cloth, but they are apt to break and spoil. 5. Cream for -Dissolve ^ of an oz. of isinglass, melt in a wine-glassful of brandy about half a dozen lumps of loaf su-ar whin some cream well; add the above, and just before putting “into the glasses squeeze the juice of a lemon into your mixture.