BILL OF FARE FOR FEBRUARY. 79 cut them into lengths of about three inches; place them close together, and tie them tightly up in a coarse open cloth, securing the top and bottom. "When the stew has been on long enough, take out the bones and put in the fish ; let them simmer in the liquor till perfectly tender ; then take them out, boil up the liquor again, strain it through a sieve, and pour it quite hot over the eels, placed in a deep dish and divested of the cloth. 2. Fillet of Beef roAko.?, a delicious steak, marinaded, and then either roasted or stewed. 4. Rice B>u?nf lings.—So^ the quantity of rice required in lukewarm water till it is quite white •, then parboil it, and drain off the water. Spread the rice upon a cloth, about an inch thick, and in a circle large enough to envelope a dumpling apple. The fruit must be peeled, cored, and filled with Lisbon sugar and a couple of cloves, and the rice carefully placed round it; as soon as this is done, tie the cloth tightly at the top, boil for half an hour, and serve with melted butter or wine sauce. ‘ A woman should be veiy cautious of beginning those expenses which, if once begun, will continue; but may be more liberal on such occasions as are not likely to returnP Bacon. 3. Roast Shoulder of Mutton. 1. Cod.—To boil it well, have the water ready boiling, with i lb. of salt to every 6 quarts; put in your fish, draw your fish-kettle to the comer of the fire, where let it simmer slowly from twenty minutes to half an hour; when done, the bone in the centre will draw out easily; if boiled too much, it would eat tough and stringy. ^ 2. Oyster Sattce.—R\ih 2^ table-spoonfuls of flour into | lb. of butter : melt these gently in a stewpan, and add | pint of stock to thicken, with halt a spoonful of salt, the juice of half a lemon. The oysters should be bearded and stewed in their own liquor separately; when the sauce is as thick as melted butter, add the fish, and stir them together. 5. Bal/i Budding.—Fare and chop half a dozen apples; take 6 oz. of finely-grated bread-crumbs, the same weight of picked and washed currants, 6 oz. of loaf sugar, a salt-spoonful of salt, and a quarter of a nutmeg finely powdered, half a dozen eggs beat up, a table-spoonful of ■0— FEBRUARY 27. 1. Cod. 2. Oyster Sauce. 4. Broccoli and Potatoes. 5. Bath Pudding.