RECEIPTS FOR SUMMER BEVERAGES, ETC. 459 goblet in whicli a lemon ice has been placed, forms a deliciously cool and refreshing draught; but should be taken with some care, and posi- tively avoided whilst you are very hot. Milk Ptinch.—This seductive and nectareous drink can be made by the direction herewith given :—To a couple of quarts of spring water add I quart of genuine milk. Mix i quart of old Jamaica rum with 2 of French brandy, and put the spirit to the milk, stirring it for a short time; let it stand for an hour. Filter through blotting-paper into bottles ; and, should you find that the liquid is cloudy, which it should not be, you may clarify by adding a small portion of isinglass to each bottle. This receipt will furnish half a dozen punch. To Ripen Bottled Porter or Ale.—May, being a good season for bottling malt liquor for autumn or winter drinking, a couple of raisins or half a dozen grains of rice should be put into each bottle, which will mainly assist in generating the required effervescence. Gin Punch.—Following the plan already given for making Punch a la Ford, add good gin, or Hollands if you can procure it, in the proper proportion before prescribed ; this, bottled and kept in a cool cellar or cistern, will be found an economical and excellent summer drink. West India experience.—To a tumbler filled with two-thirds of lemonade, add a wine-glass of brandy, and fill to the brim with green lime shmb. A Hint from Barhadoes.—To render a glass of punch more than usually acceptable, add a table-spoonful of Guava jelly to it. Whisky Cordial.—(Make this in July.)—Put into a large jug a lb. of ripe white currants stripped from their stalks; add a A of an oz. of grated ginger, the rind of 2 lemons, and a quart of whisky. Let it remain for twenty-four hours closely covered in the jug j strain through a hair sieve add i lb. of lump sugar, and let it stand twelve hours longer; then bottle, and well cork it. Leinon Syrup.—Boil 2 lbs. of loaf sugar in i lb. of water. When the syrup is clarified, add an equal quantity of fresh lemon-juice j mix both together, and let it simmer for ten minutes. Raspberry Vinegar.—Vick 2 quarts of raspberries, and pour over them a quart of vinegar; let them steep twenty-four hours, then strain through a sieve, but do not press the fruit. Have 2 more quarts of fresh fruit, and pour this liquor over them, leaving them to steep tor twenty-four hours; strain again, and to every pint of juice allow i-i- lbs. of loaf-sugar. Pour all into a deep jar, which set in hot water until the sugar is entirely dissolved. Take off the scum, and bottle for use.