342 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 3. American Pancakes.—Mix i pint of cream, 5 spoonfuls of fine flour, 5 eggs, and a very little salt. Fry the pancakes very thin in fresh butter, and between each strew sugar and cinnamon. Serve six or seven at once. DECEMBER 4. ‘ Talents are admirable when not made to stand proxy for virtues.'—Hannah More. 1. Mock Turtle Soup. 3. Orange Pudding. 2. Calf’s Heart, Roasted. 4. Vegetables. 1. Mock Turtle Soup.—Bespeak a calf’s head with the skin on ; cut it in half, and clean it well; then half boil it, take off all the meat in square bits, break the bones of the head, and boil them in some beef and veal broth to add to the richness. Fry some shalot in butter, and dredge in flour sufficient to thicken the gravy; stir this into the browning, and give it one or two boils j skim it carefully, and then put in the head \ add half a pint of Madeira wine, and simmer till the meat is quite tender. About ten minutes before serving, put in some tarragon, chives, basil, parsley, salt, and cayenne pepper to taste, one spoonful of say, and two spoonfuls of mushroom ketchup ; squeeze the juice of a lemon into the tureen, and pour the soup upon it Forcemeat-balls and small eggs. More or less ivine may be put, according to the taste. 2. Calfs Heart, Roasted. —well; stuff with veal stuffing. While roasting, if you have no cold roast veal or beef gravy, baste well with butter. When done, with the gravy left in the latch-pan make a brown sauce. 3. Orange Pudding.—Take half a pound of melted butter, half a pound of sugar, and the yolks of 8 eggs; mix all well together with 2 oz. of candied orange ; put puff paste all over the dish, and bake half an hour : 2 oz. of biscuits may be added. DECEMBER 5. * There is no better method of moderating suspicions than to provide against them as if they were true; yet bridle them as if they were false. -Bacon. 1. Eel a l’Italienne. 3- Batter Pancakes. 2. Haricoed Mutton. 4- Vegetables. I. Eel d, ritalwifie.—Tdke a large eel, skinned; cut it into pieces three inches long; boil them in white wine and water. Put into a