THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 420 bone, ofif a neck of mutton; trim off all the fat, and bare the bone an inch at the end; season with a tea-spoonful of salt and a salt-spoonful of pepper, and dredge each cutlet with dried flour. Make a bright stewpan hot, and rub it 4 times across with garlic; put in 2 oz. of butter to dissolve; then put in the cutlets, and brown both sides slowly; add a tea-cupful of any good gravy, and simmer as gently as possible for halt an hour. Well wash 5 or 6 handfuls of spinach ; put it into a saucepan, with a pint of boiling water, a tea-spoonful of salt, and a dessert-spoonful of sugar, and boil till done (about eighteen minutes); drain off the water, rub the spinach through a fine wire sieve, and put it into a saucepan ; add a dessert-spoonful of sifted sugar and a quarter of a gill of thick cream j stir over the fire for five minutes. Place the spinach round the dish, and the cutlets in the centre, the ends of the bones raised in the middle of the dish. Note.—Sorrel is dressed exactly as spinach, omitting the sugar. Some persons object to sugar with spinach, which should be ascertained before using it. 6. Kidney end of Loin of Veal—Place a piece of buttered paper over the lean side, hang it close to a good fire for twenty minutes, then at a distance ; baste constantly till done, allowing twenty-eight minutes to the lb.; half an hour before serving, remove the paper, dredge over a little baked flour, ^ a salt-spoonful of salt, and the strained juice of a lemon; continue to baste. Knead 2 oz. of butter with a dessert-spoonful of baked flour, and stir into the third of a pint of boiling water; simmer ten minutes. Cut a round of bread, the third of an inch thick, off a 2 lb. loaf j take off the crust and outside ; toast to a pale brown colour 5 place the veal upon the toast; pour off the dripping ; add the gravy to the melted butter, and pour it over the veal. Serve, with cut lemon on a plate. 7. Ha7n.—Put the ham into an iron pot, the skin uppermost, and more than cover it with cold water ; boil up quickly, skim, then simmer till done, allowing twenty-five minutes to the lb.; take it up by the knuckle, to avoid putting a fork into the thick part, and thus letting out the juice; pull off the skin; trim off any rough brown pieces, and powder the ham over with brown baked crumbs. Cut a neat frill of white paper 3 inches deep; roll it round the knuckle, and send tire ham to table on a dry, warm dish. _ ., • r 8. Golden Plover.—Place the birds before a brisk fire, with a piece of crumb of bread, the third of an inch thick, under them. Baste with fresh butter till done (about sixteen or eighteen minutes). _ Serve on the bread, which should be nicely browned, and saturated with the butter and the trail. Serve, with rich, thin sauce. 9. Cumberland Fuddwg.—¥ovs oz. of apples finely chopped, 3 oz.