BILL OF FARE FOR JUNE. 183 2. Breast of Mutton Grilled.—trim a fine well-kept breast of mutton, joint it underneath, and put it into the stock-pot to boil until half or three parts done, or braize it, then take it out. Score the top all over in diamonds; brush it over with an egg beaten up, and cover it with bread-crumbs seasoned with fine herbs, pepper, and salt. Broil it over a clear fire, or bake it in an oven. Serve it with piquant, Italian, tomato, onion, or caper sauce. 3. Sto7ie Cream and Tartlets.—Soak ^ oz. of isinglass in a little warm water; a pint of cream (or half cream and half milk); sweeten to your taste. Add the isinglass, and boil two minutes, stirring it the whole time. Put it in a jug to cool; have ready a glass dish mth preserves ; when nearly cold, pour the mixture on it. Be sure to stir it the whole time in the jug till it jellies. JUNE 22. * A wife has a thousand opportunities of removing prepossessions, of fixing impressions, ofetigaging attentions, of insinuating goodness.’—Dr. Burns. 1. Mulligatawny Soup. 2. Cutlets of Breast of Lamb A LA St. Menhould. 3. Vegetables. 4. Strawberry Blanc Mange AND Tartlets. 1. Mulligatawny Soup.—Cut up a rabbit or fowl into small pieces, and brown them in a frying-pan. Then put them into a stewpan with the onions fried, a slice of garlic, and 3 pints of stock, into which you have previously mixed the curry powder; let all simmer gently for two hours; then add the almonds pounded, the lemon or mango juice, with a lump of butter and salt to taste. Serve very hot, and send up a large dish of boiled rice with it; or the rice may be put into the soup if preferred. 2. Cutlets of Breast of Lamb d la St. Menhould.—Cut off the red bone at the edge of the breast of lamb from the tendons; blanch and braize the breast until it is so tender that the rib-bones may be easily pulled out. It may then be prepared whole as a breast of mutton. For cutlets, place it between two dishes that it may remain flat, and to cool; then divide it into cutlets, with two or three bones to each. Pare off Ae skin and trim them neatly, leaving the bones protruding about an inch; next egg-and-breast-crumb them for frying. If for broiling, dip them in clarified butter, and cover them with bread-crumbs again! They may be done in either of those ways. Serve them with plain gravy, Italian or piquant sauce, or with any of the sauces for mutton cutlets.