232 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. AUGUST 9. * Let not soft shimler close my eyes. Ere I have recollected thrice The train of actions through the day. Where have my feet mark'd out their way.'—PYTHAGORAS. r. Villa Soup. I 3- Vegetables. 2. Stewed Fowls. 1 4. Semolina Pudding. 1. Villa Soup.—A pound of meat, 2 onions, 2 carrots, 2 oz. of rice, a pint of whole peas, pepper and salt, a gallon of water. Cut the meat into slices; put one or two at the bottom of an earthen jar or pan 3 lay on it the onions sliced 3 then put meat again, then the carrots sliced. Soak the pint of peas all the previous night 3 put ttem in with I gallon of water. Tie the jar down, and put it in a hot oven for three or four hours. 2. Stewed Fowls.—A fowl, about a quart of mutton broth, pepper, salt, mace, a large cupful of rice. Truss the fowl for boiling, and stew it in about a quart of mutton broth, seasoned with a little pepper, salt, and half a blade of mace, for an hour and a half, skimming it often. About half an hour before the fowl is ready to serve, add a large cupful of rice 3 and when tender, strain the broth from it, and place the rice on a sieve to dry and swell before the fire, keeping the fowl hot 3 then place it in the centre of a hot dish, with the rice arranged in rather a high border round it Serve parsley and butter sauce in a tureen. 4. Setnolina Pudding.—A pint and a half of new milk, half a tea-cup- ful of semolina, orange marmalade. Put a pint and a half of milk over the fire, and when boiling stir in half a cupful of semolina, and continue to stir it over the fire lor ten minutes 3 then put it into a mould to cool 3 turn it out, and serve with jam or marmalade round it. It is delicious iced. —0— AUGUST 10. ‘ We need not bid, for cloistered cell. Our neighbotir and our work farewell: The trivial round, the common task, May furnish all we ought to ask— Room to deny ourselves, a road To bring us, daily, nearer God.'—Anon. 1, Cock-a-Leekie. 3- Vegetables. 2 Stewed Neck of Mutton. 4- German Pudding. I. Cock-a-Leekie.—X\m&, three or four hours. One fowl, 3 bunches of winter leeks, pepper and salt, and 5 quarts of medium stock.