325 BILL OF FARE FOR NOVEMBER. 2. Round of Boiled Beef.—Select a fine rib of beef, from 9 to 10 lbs.; have the bone removed,—it will make a gravy for anything you may require; rub a little salt over the inside of the rib, roll it like a fillet of veal, and bind it round with a tape or a few wooden skewers; place it in sufficient pickle to cover it, and let it remain in it five or six days, turning it every morning. When it is required, place it in a stewpan of very hot water (to prevent the gravy from being drawn out), and let it only simmer, not boil, according to the size of the joint, allowing the full time for each pound of meat. When done, remove the skewers, and replace them with a silver or plated one. 3. Charles Douglas Pudding.—Half a lb. of bread-crumbs, 6 oz. of beef suet, 6 oz. of stoned raisins, 2 table-spoonfuls of the best moist sugar, two table-spoonfuls of flour, half a tea-spoonful of mixed spice, a little salt, 4 drops of essence of almonds, i egg, a glass of sherry, nearly half a pint of milk. Mix the above quantities well and gradually together, and when thoroughly beaten up, put the pudding into a well- buttered mould, and boil it Serve with brandy or wine sauce. NOVEMBER 18. ‘ Hal/ the ills ivc hoard within our hearts are ills because we hoard them. ’ Barry Cornwall. r. Roast Fowl. 3. Agnes Pudding. 2. Irish Stew. 4, Vegetables. I. Roast^ Fowl.—’Flu, the breast of the fowl with a nice veal stuffing, and truss it for roasting ; put it down to a clear fire, and dredge over it a little flour. If a large fowl, it will require about an hour to roast, but less time if of a medium size. When done, remove the skewers, and serve it with brown gravy and bread sauce. 2. Irish Stew. Put 2 lbs. of breast of mutton in a pot, with i-|- pints of water and a pinch of salt. Let it stew gently for an hour, then take off all the fat. Take out the meat and cut it into small pieces ; have ready 4 lbs. of potatoes pared and cut in halves, 3 or 4 good-sized onions peeled and sliced, and pepper and salt mixed in a cup. When you have taken the fat off the broth as closely as possible, put in a layer of potatoes; then sprinkle 2 or 3 pieces of meat with the pepper and salt, and lay them on the potatoes; then a layer of the sliced onions, then another layer of potatoes, i of mutton, then i of onions, and so on till the whole is in. Cover close, and let it stew very gently for another hour, shaking it frequently, that it may not bum. 3. Agnes Pudding.—FwVLtx a pudding-mould thickly; sprinkle brown