2 40 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. water, 3 onions, 6 turnips, thyme, parsley, pepper and sa t, ^ rice into a basin, and grate half a nutmeg over it. Mix well before putting in the eggs. Have your pudding-dish well buttered , and, after the rice and eggs are beaten up, pour in, and bake in a q^uick oven. AUGUST18. ‘ Woe unto those that countenance a sin, Siding with vice that it may credit win ; By their unhollowed vote, that do benight The truth for error, putting dark for light, A nd light for dark ; that call an evil good. And wotild by vice have virtue understood I'—Bishop King. 1. Kidney Soup. I 3- Elizabeth Fry Pudding. 2. Neck of Venison. 1 4- Vegetables. 1. Kidney Soup.—One bullock’s kidney, 3 sticks of celery, 3 or 4 turnips, 3 or 4 carrots, a bunch of sweet herbs, pepper and salt, a spoonful of mushroom ketchup, the liquor in which a leg of mutton has been boiled. ■ Add to the liquor from a boiled leg of mutton a bullock s kidney ; put it over the fire, and when half done take out the kidney and cut it into pieces the size of dice. Add 3 sticks of celery, 3 or 4 turnips, and the same of carrots, all cut small, and a bunch of sweet herbs tied together. Season to your taste with pepper and salt. Let it boil slowly for five or six hours, adding the ketchup. When done take out the herbs, and serve the vegetables in the soup. It is always better (as aU soups are) made the day before it is wanted. 2. Neck of Venison.—Time, a quarter of an hour for a lb. Cover it with paste and paper as for the haunch ; fix it on a spit, and roast. 3. Elizabeth Fry Pudding.—Tz}/.e i quart of milk, from this reserve enough to wet four heaped table-spoons of flour; mix the flour vety smoothly with this milk, boil the remainder of the milk, and add 4 wel - beaten eggs, a little salt, and the flour. Boil a few minutes, stirring with energy. Wet your pudding-dish, and put the pudding inj sift over it half a cup of white sugar. Put half a cup of wine and half a cup of sugar together, and pour over the pudding before serving. AUGUST 19. «Quench, oh quench not that flame of lave! it is the breath of your ’-Longfellow. I, Mixed Soup. 2. Neck of Veal Braized. 3. Vegetables. 4. Lemon Custard. 1. Mixed Soup.—One pound and a half of lean beef, 6 ^