63 BILL OF FARE FOR FEBRUARY. FEBRUARY 4. * The tare taken to prment “ ennui” is but a ereditable plan for promoting self ignoranee.'—Hannah More. 1. Baked Haddocks. 3. Potatoes and Broccoli. 2. Remainder of Cold Boiled Leg 4. Maccaroni Pudding. OF Mutton hashed. 1. Baked LLaddocks.—Gut and clean your haddocks, and lay them all night in salt. Next day skin them carefully, and cut oft the heads, tails, and fins; stuff them with bread-crumbs, chopped parsley, and onions, worked up with a bit of butter, pepper, and salt. Rub them over with butter; roll them in bread-crumbs, and bake them, or put them in a Dutch oven before the fire. 2. Remainder of Cold Boiled Leg of Mutton hashed.—Cut it in thin slices, fat and lean ; flour them; have ready a little onion boiled in 2 or 3 spoonfuls of water; add to it some gravy, and the meat seasoned, and make it hot, but not to boil. Serve in a covered dish; a spoonful of currant jelly and half a glass of port wine will give an agreeable flavour. 4. Maccaroni Pudding.—Simmer i or 2 oz. of the pipe sort in a pint of milk and a bit of lemon and cinnamon till tender; put it into a dish with milk, 2 or 3 eggs, but only i white ; sugar, nutmeg, and a half glass of raisin wine, or table-spoonful of brandy. Bake with a paste round the edges. A layer of orange marmalade or raspberry jam in this pudding, for change, is a great improvement; in which case omit the almond water, or ratifia, which you would otherwise flavour it with. FEBRUARY B. ‘ Austerity drives the gentle spirit to artifiee, and the rugged to despair, and generates deceit and cunning:—Yim-SSKS. More. 1. Roast Shoulder of Mutton. 2. Onion Sauce. 3. Haricot’s Beans. 4- Potatoes. 5. Custard Pudding. I. Roast Shoulder of Mutton.—out the vein from the under part • hang before a good fire, and baste constantly; half an hour before serving, sprinkle with halt salt-spoonful of salt, dredge with a little flour, and baste again till done. Pour oft all the fat, add a tea-cunful of boiling water to the ‘dripped ’ gravy, pour it on the dish, and serve very hot. As a shoulder is generally liked well done, allow sixteen minutes to the lb. ’ sixteen