BILL OF FARE FOR JULY. 197 hour. Make a good bechamel sauce, add a little essence of anchovies, and serve round it 2. Roast Tongue.—A fresh ox tongue, stuck with cloves, roasted, and sent to table with port wine sauce and currant jelly, is a pleasant variety to the routine of ordinary dishes. 3. Lentils.—Dress them according to the mode prescribed for haricots, in gravy or good broth instead of water, and season with pepper, salt, and vinegar. The gravy served with them should be thickened. Lentils are largely used on the Continent for thickening soups. Two varieties are imported into England, of which the large brown French is the best. As a food for healthy persons, lentils are very valuable, being more nutritious and more readily softened than peas. 4. Macaroni.—Boil in milk, and when quite tender drain off the liquid; place the macaroni upon the dish you intend to send to table, put it before the fire whilst you rub fresh butter over the top, and then cover the surface with grated Parmesan cheese, about a quarter of an inch thick j put it into a Dutch oven, and let it remain for ten minutes before sent to table. JULY 3. ‘ Innocence in ■women wants not the aid of ostentation^—Rev. James Fordyce, D.D. 1. Vermicelli Soup. I 3. Vegetables. 2. Beef Olives. I 4. Victoria Pudding. 1. Vermicelli Soup.—Cut about 4 lbs. of knuckle of veal, lbs. of the scrag of mutton, and a few slices of ham, into small pieces; put them into a stewpan with one onion stuck with cloves, and four ounces of butter; then add the carrots, mace, bunch of sweet herbs, one anchovy, and the celery. Mix all together, cover it close, and set it over the fire till all the gravy has been extracted from the meat; pour the liquor into a basin, let the meat brown in the pan, and add to it four quarts of water; boil it slowly till it is reduced to three pints, strain it, and stir in the gravy drawn from the meat. Set it over the fire, add the vermicelli, one head of celery cut small, a little cayenne, and salt; boil it up for ten minutes. Lay the roll in the tureen, pour the soup over it, and strew some vermicelli on the top. Vermicelli can also be made by boiling i quart of clear stock, adding 2 oz. of vermicelli to it while boiling, first cutting the vermicelli into short lengths, and boiling it again for ten minutes. 2. Bee/ Olives.—Cut some steaks from a rump of beef about ten or hvelve inches long, four wide, and nearly half an inch thick; trim them