476 THINGS A LADY WOULD LUCE TO ICNOW. your linen, and allow it to boil twenty minutes. Rinse it in the usual way. This will be all that is necessary to get it clean, and keep it a good colour. To kill Cockroaches or Black Beetles—X tea-cupful of well-bruised plaster of Paris, mixed with double the quantity of oatmeal, to which add a little sugar (this latter is not essential); then strew it on the floor or in the chinks where they frequent. Paint.—To get rid of the smell of oil paint, plunge a handful of hay into a pail full of water, and let it stand in the room newly painted. To clean Gilt Frames.—When the gilt frames of pictures or looking- glasses, or the gilt mouldings of rooms, have got specks of dirt upon them, from flies or other causes, they can be cleaned with the white of egg gently rubbed on with a camel’s hair pencil. To purify Water.—It is not generally known that pounded alum possesses the property of purifying water. A table-spoonful of pulverized alum sprinkled into a hogshead of water (the water to be stirred at the time) will, after the lapse of a few hours, by precipitating to the bottom the impure particles, so purify it that it will be found to possess nearly the freshness and clearness of the finest spring water. A pailful con- taining 4 gallons may be purified by a single tea-spoonful. To remove Fly Spots.—Dip a camel’s hair brush into spirits of mne, and apply it to remove fly spots. Mode of arranging Grate and lighting Fire to save 75 per cent, in the Consumption of Coal.—Let a blacksmith come and measure accurately the bottom of your grate, and make an iron plate exactly the size, and place over the bars at bottom, so as effectually to stop the current of air through the grate, which carries away half the heat up the chimney. Then care- fully lay the fire in the ordinary way, well filling the grate. Light; and it will last nearly the whole day without poking, and give afar better heat. A small quantity of coal will be wanted about the middle of the day.