THINGS A LADY WOULD LIRE TO KNOW. 170 APRIL 12. * All true love is grounded on esteem.'—Duke of Buckingham. 1. White Soup. 2. Hashed Mutton. 3. Vegetables. 4. Oxford Dumplings. I. White Soup.—Take a scrag of mutton, a knuckle of veal, after cutting up as much meat as will make collops; 2 or 3 shank-bones of mutton nicely cleaned, and ^ lb. of fine undressed lean gammon of bacon, with a bunch of sweet herbs, a piece of fresh lemon-peel, 3 blades of mace, a dessert-spoonful of white pepper, and 2 or 3 onions; boil all in 3 quarts of water, till the meat falls to pieces. Next day take off the fat, clear the jelly from the sediment, and put it m a very nice tin saucepan. If macaroni is used, it should be added soon enough to get quite tender, after soaking in cold water. Vermicelli may be added after the thickening, as it requires less time to do. Have ready the thickening, which is to be made as followsBlanch ^ . of sweet almonds, beaten to a paste in a marble mortar, with a spoonful of water to prevent their oiling; mince a large slice of dressed veal or chicken, and beat with it a piece of stale white bread; add all this to a pint of thick cream, a piece of fresh lemon-peel, and a blade of mace in the finest powder. Boil it a few minutes; add to it a pint of soup, and strain and pulp it through a coarse sieve : this thickening is then fit for putting to the rest, which should boil for half an hour after- wards. , . 1-1 • 2. Hashed Mutton.—Oxt up the meat to be hashed into small pieces, not too thick, and lay them aside; break up the bones, and set them to stew in rather more water than is wanted for gravy; if liked, ^ onion, or only salt and pepper; let it stew an hour; take off all the fat, and strain the gravy clear; mix sufficient flour to thicken, with any sauce you may prefer; thicken and season to taste; ffinecessa^, colour it—the colour should be a delicate brown; bring it to boil, then put in the meat, and place it where it will only get thoroughly heated through. Serve with thin toasted sippets m a very hot dish, with curran grated bread, a or.; currants and shred suet, 4 or. each; a large spoonfuls of flour; a great deal of Srated lemon-peel; a bit of sugar, and a little pimento m P°' • with 2 eggs and a little milk into 5 dumplings, and fry of a fine yellmy bro^vn. Made with flour instead of bread, but with halt the quantit), they are excellent. Serve with sweet sauce.