BILL OF FARE FOR SEPTEMBER. 273 2. Hotch-potch of Mutton.—Cut some carrots and turnips into corks; blanch and put them into some- clear brown stock, with some button- onions and celery cut in strips, and boil tender. In the meantime cut and trim neatly a few mutton chops; stew them separately in some broth until tender; put them into the stewpan with the roots a few minutes before serving, and season it with salt and pepper. Toast some thin slices of bread and put in the bottom of the tureen; pour on a little broth to soak the bread. Put the chops on the bread without breaking it, and pour in the soup and vegetables on the top. 4. Plain Tapioca Pudding.—One oz. and a half of tapioca, a pint of milk, 3 eggs, sugar to taste, grated lemon-peel. SEPTEMBER 2 3. * My way must be straight on. True zuith the tongue. False with the heart, I may not, cannot be.'—Coleridge. 1. Conger Eel Soup. 4. Vegetables. 2. Marinade of Beef Palates. 5. Plain Swiss Pudding. 3. Tripe Roasted. I. Conger Ed Soup.—Head and tail of a large conger eel, 3 quarts of water, i lb. of butter, i leek, the blossoms of 4 or 5 marigolds, and a few leaves, ^ pint of green peas, or the white heart of a cabbage, half a tea-cup of parsley, a bunch of thyme, 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, a pint of milk, and a little salt. ^ 2. Marmade of Beef Palates.—the palates; cut them in pieces about the size of the finger, and steep them for three or four hours in a souse made with sufficient vinegar to cover them; pepper, salt, a few blades of mace, cloves, 2 or 3 bay leaves, parsley, thyme, onions and carrots sliced; warm them in this, and set them aside to cool. Drain, flour, egg, and bread-crumb them; fry a nice brown; dish and garnish with fried parsley. 3. Tripe Roasted.—CvA. the tripe into good-sized pieces, and spread some forcemeat over them; roll them up securely, and tie them upon a small spit, or roas| them in a cradle spit; flour and baste them with butter, and serve them up garnished with lemon in slices, and melted butter. 5. Plain Swiss Pudding.—Chop very fine 6 oz. of beef suet, and mix it well with 8 oz. of bread-crumbs, ^ lb. of apples, pared, cored, and minced fine; add 8 oz. of powdered white sugar, the juice of i lemon, and the peel grated, with a pinch of salt. Well mix all the above ingredients, and put it into a buttered mould; boil it, and when done, turn it out and serve.