168 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. it, put as much water and one-third vinegar as will cover it, with bay leaves, salt, and both sorts of pepper. Cover close, and simmer till done enough. Drain and boil quick the liquor, and put on when cold. Serve with fennel or anchovy sauce. 4. Summer Pudding.—Moisten 5 table-spoonfuls of dry flour with a gill of new milk ; kir till quite smooth, then add | pint of boiling milk and 5 oz. of sugar; boil five minutes; beat 3 fresh eggs, and add to the batter while warm, but not boiling; beat for ten minutes; stir in | pint of any kind of summer fruit. Butter a basin, put in the pudding, dredge a cloth with flour, tie over securely, plunge the basin into boiling water, and boil fast for an hour and a half. Turn out carefully, and serve immediately, with sweet sauce poured over, in which add a little wine or brandy. Sauce io Quarter lb. pounded sugar, do. of butter, and a wme> glassful of brandy or rum. Beat the butter to a cream, till no lumps remain; add the sugar and spirits, stir till the whole is thoroughly mixed ; and serve in a tureen, or pour round the pudding. 5. Mashed Turnips.—flavour of this justly favourite dish may be very much improved by having a table-spoonful of finely-powdered loaf sugar beat up with the vegetable, after it has been well pressed from lie water. As the process of mashing occupies some time, the turnips should be warmed up a few minutes before being sent to table, by means of a small bit of butter or half a tea-cupful of cream. JUNE 8. The greatest happiness of life is the conviction that we are loved, loved for ourselves— say rather, loved in spite of ourselves.'—Victor Hugo. 1. Vegetable Soup. 2. Mackerel. 3. Hashed Mutton. 4. Vegetables. 1. Vegetable Scrape and cut into thin slices 4 carrots, peel and slice 3 turnips, chop up 3 heads of celery, and the hearts of 2 lettuces; slice a Spanish onion thin. Put these, with ^ lb. of butter, 2 tab e- spoonfuls of salt, and i of black pepper, into a stewpan, set it on a slow fire, stir well to prevent burning; and when the veget^ables are ne^ly warmed through, pour boiling water over them till the pan is fi e . Let all boil slowly for 3 hours and a half, then rub it through a - sieve ; if properly cooked, it should be the thickness of cream, and of a rich yellow colour. . 1 2. V«fW-Cut off the heads, but do not np them open; gut and