THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 1S4 4. Strawberry Blanc Mange and Tartlets.—a quart (without their stalks) of fresh and richly-flavoured strawberries ^ crush them lightly with a wooden or silver spoon \ strew over them 8 oz, of pounded sugar, and let them stand for three or four hours j then turn them on to a fine hair-sieve reversed, and rub them through it. Melt over a gentle fire 2 oz. of the best isinglass in a pint of new milk, and sweeten it with 4 oz. of sugar; strain it through a muslin, and mix it with i;^ pints of thick cream. Keep these stirred till nearly or quite cold, then pour them gradually to the strawberries, whisking them briskly together; and, last of all, throw in by small portions the strained juice of a fine sound lemon. Put in a mould,, in a very cool place, for 12 hours or more, before it is served. JUNE 23, ‘ Be not disturbed about trifles, or at accidents common or unavoidable:— Dr. Franklin. 1. Wrexham Soup. 2. Breast of Lamb with Peas. 3. Cherry Pudding, etc. 1. Wrexhajn Soup.—OeX a lb. of gravy beef into very small pieces; put them into a half-gallon jar ; fill it up with every description of vege- tables, even lettuces. Tie the jar over with a bladder, and put it over the fire in a deep saucepan of boiling water, or in the oven, which is far better, for at least six hours. This generally makes sufficient soup for four persons. A little pepper and salt must be added. 2. Breast of Lamb with Feas.—H^Y^ out the bones and cut it into moderate-size pieces; warm them in a braize, dram, ^d glaze them; serve them with stewed peas poured over, prepared thus :-Put some fresh-shelled young peas into a stewpan, with a slice of ham, a piece 0 butter, a bunch of parsley, and green onions; stew them gently over a slow fire until tender ; then add 2 or 3 spoonfuls of brown sauce, salt pepper, and a little sugar. If it is preferred white, use bechamel or '''^I'^kerry Pudding, etc.-^^^^ a good baL previously buttered, with it; pick your fruit and fill the basin, p" Ta very^ittl^ water and some sugar, wet the edge of h paste all round, then cover the top with a edges together; tie a cloth tightly over and boil the an^hour and a half, or two hours, according to its size. \ y