466 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. PRESERVES, JELLIES, AND CREAMS. Calfs Fed Jelly.—Boil 2 feet in 2 quarts and a pint of water, till the feet are broken and the water half wasted; strain it. When cold, take off the fat, and remove the jelly from the sediment; then put it into a saucepan with sugar, sherry wine, and brandy (raisin wine, if preferred), lemon-juice to your taste, and some lemon-peel. (The lemon-juice should be carefully strained before added to the other ingredients, or it is liable to make the jelly muddy.) When the flavour is rich, put it to the whites of 5 eggs well beaten, and their shells broken. Set the saucepan on the fire, but do not stir the jelly after it begins to warm. Let it boil twenty minutes after it rises to a head; then pour it through a flannel jelly-bag, first dipping the bag into hot water to prevent waste, and squeezing it quite dry. Fasten the bag on to a stand, or back of a chair, place it near the fire with a basin underneath it, and run the jelly through and through till clear; then put it into glasses or moulds. (The moulds should be first soaked in water and drained for half a second.) Put it in a cool place to set In summer, it is necessary to put the mould in ice; then when wanted for table, dip them in hot water for a minute, wipe the outside; lay the dish on the top of the mould and turn it quickly over, and the jelly should slip out easily. The follovving mode will facilitate the clearing of jelly. ^^Tlen the mixture has boiled twenty minutes, throw in a tea-cupful of cold water; let it boil five minutes longer; then take the saucepan oS the fire, covered close, and keep it half an hour ; after which it will be so clear as to need only once running through the bag, and save much waste. The feet need only be scalded to take off the hair. The liquor will require greater care in removing the fat; and, of course, allow more water; but the jelly will be more nutritious. Cow heels are equally good, and more economical than calves’ feet. Cherry Jelly.—July or August—Dissolve oz. of isinglass in a ^ of a pint of water, to another of a pint add as much powdered loaf sugar as will make a good thick syrup ; squeeze the juice out of a bottleful of Morelia cherries; add to it a glass of brandy, a glass of noyeau, and the juice of a lemon and a half; mix all together; strain through a muslin sieve, and pour into a shape, which should be kept in a very cold place till the jelly is required. An excellent Whip up | of a pint of very nch cream to a strong froth, with some finely-scraped lemon-peel, a squeeze o le juice, \ a glass of sweet wine, and sugar to make it pleasant, but no too sweet; lay it on a sieve or in a form, and next day put it on a dish, and ornament it with very light puff-paste biscuits, made m tin shapes