464 Tm^GS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. These cakes, when first baked, eat deliciously buttered for tea, or with carraways, to eat cold. Dice Cake.—Half a lb. of ground rice, of a lb. of butter, ^ of a lb. of white sugar, 3 eggs, rind and juice of half a lemon, or some drops of essence of lemon. Beat all well together, and bake in a moderate oven. Rich Cakes.—Mix together i lb. of flour, ^ a lb. of loaf sugar, and ^ a lb. of melted butter; add a of a lb. of currants and a glass of brandy or raisin wine. Roll out the paste; cut the cakes with a small round tin, and bake upon a floured tin. Rich Fruit Cake.—Two lbs. of raisins stoned, 2 lbs. of currants, i lb. of citron cut in small pieces, of a lb. of almonds, i lb. of flour, 10 eggs, I lb. of brown sugar, f of a lb. of butter, i cup of treacle, i oz. of nut- megs, I wine-glass of wine, i wine-glass of brandy. Mode.—Mix the butter (to a cream) and sugar together; then beat the eggs and stir them in; add part of the flour, then the treacle. Mix the fruit with some of the flour, and add half the fruit with the wine, brandy, and nutmeg; then the rest of the flour and fruit. Stir well together, and bake for three hours in a slow oven. Mag's Gold Cake (good).—Yolks of 8 eggs, i cup of butter, 2 cups of sugar, 4 cups of flour, i cup of milk, scant tea-spoonful of soda, 2 tea- spoonfuls of cream of tartar. Flavour with lemon and vanilla, Mag's Silver Cake (good).—Two cups of sugar, i cup of butter, 4 cups of flour, I cup of milk, scant tea-spoonful of soda, 2 tea-spoonfuls of cream of tartar, whites of 8 eggs. Flavour with almond or peach. Mag's Soda Cakes (nice).—Two eggs, two cupfuls of flour, i cupful of sugar, ^ a cupful of butter, ^ a tea-spoonful of soda, i tea-spoonful of cream of tartar, i a cupful of milk. Flavour with vanilla or peach. Hard Molasses Gingerbread.—Melt i cupful of butter in 2 of molasses (treacle); pour it hot on i quart of flour. Dissolve r tea-spoonful of soda in a little hot water, and add it with 2 tea-spoonfuls of ginger; put in flour to roll. Roll it thin, and bake it quick (cut in rounds). These cakes are very crisp. Gingerbread.—Mix with 2 lbs. of flour ^ a lb. of treacle, | of an oz. of carraways, i oz. of ginger finely sifted, and 8 oz. of butter. Roll the paste into what form you please; bake on tins, after having worked it very much, and kept it to rise. If you like sweetmeats, add orange candied. It may be added in small bits. Shortbread.—Take i lb. of flour, a lb. of butter, and 4 oz. of powdered loaf sugar; mix well together without any water; knead it well with your hand ; roll it out thin, and stick pieces of candied peel cut thin over the top; cut it any shape you please, and bake it in a slow oven.