2IS BILL OF FARE FOR JUL Y. the dish half a tea-cupful of hot mushroom ketchup, with some soluble cayenne. 4. Currant Fritters.—Put 4 yolks and 2 whites of eggs to i pint of milk, mix with it ^ pint of bread-crumbs grated fine, a little nutmeg, 6 oz. of currants, \ lb. of butter melted, a little salt, and flour sufficient to make it of a moderate thickness ; fry the size of fritters. —0— JULY 2 4. * Do what thou dost as if the earth svere heaven. And that thy last day were the judgment-day.'—Canon Kingsley, 1. Stewed Plaice. 3. Jerusalem Artichokes. 2. Boiled Chicken Pudding. 4. Paste Fritters. 1. Stewed Plaice.—Cut 4 or 5 plaice into pieces about two inches wide, salt them, and let them remain fifteen minutes. Slice and fry a light brown 2 onions, and put in the stewpan; put the fish on the top of them (without washing), and add ^ pint of water, ^ oz. ground ginger, and I pint of lemon-juice. Do not let the fish boil, or it will break, but cook slowly for half an hour. Take it out, add 6 eggs well beaten to the liquor when cool, then simmer till it thickens, and pour it over the fish. 2. Boiled Chicken Pudding.—Let the chickens be fasted and killed. At the end of twenty-four hours cut them up. Cut off the wings at the first joint from the body. Begin at the end of the breast-bone, bring it down in one clean cut to the wing-joint on each side; this gives two wings. Take off the merrythought, remove the legs and divide them, giving the thigh and the drumstick. Let the carcase lie sideways on the table, and divide it from end to end, separating the back from the breast; cut the back in half, crossways, and flatten the two pieces; serve the breast the same. Season according to taste. Take some mild bacon, and cut very thin slices. Make a suet crust, put it in a basin, place your joints of chicken and a few slices of bacon in the basin, tie it up in a cloth, and boil slowly for a long time. Turn it out when done. Chickens that are too small to roast or boil are very nice eaten in this way. The addition of a couple of kidneys is an improve- ment 3. Jerusaletn Artichokes.—These are usually plain-boiled, cut, and peeled, and served with parsley and butter; but a great improvement in their flavour will be obtained by baking them in their coats for about twenty mmutes, then peeling and cutting them into slices of about two- tenths of an inch, and warming them up in a rich brown sauce well seasoned. • ’