^3 PRELUDE OF MOTTOES. The sunshine from our sky may die. The greenness from life’s tree ; But ever, 'mid the warring storm, Thy nest shall shelter'd be.’—Geeai.d Massey. • She who does not make her family comfortable, will herself never be happy at home ; mid she who is not happy at home, will never be happy anywhere. —Addison. ' In words be thou A gentle flower grown musical.’—Derozier. ‘ How do the duties of a good wife, a good mother, and worthy matron, well per- formed, dignify a woman !'—Richardson. The scales of household polity are the scales of love; and she who holds them should be a sympathizing friend, ever ready to make allowance for failures, ingenious in contriving apologies, more lavish of counsels than rebukes, and less anxious to overwhelm a person with a sense of deficiency than to awaken in the bosom a consciousness of power to do better.’—T. S. Arthur. • The air of Paradise did fan the house. And angels officed all.'—Shakspeare. ‘ According to the experience I have learned, I require in married women the economi- cal virtue above all other virtues.'—Fuller. •Woman was created to refine the joys and soften the cares of humanity by the most agreeable participation.'—Addison. ' She twines and inweaves Heavenly roses with life’s earthly leaves,— Weaves for her favour'd ones love’s happy band ; Veiled in fair grace, and in modesty's tire. Watchful she feeds with perpetual fire High sensibilities, holy of hand.'—Schiller. ‘Woman should be acquainted that no beauty has charms like the inward one of the mind, and that a gracefulness of her manners is much more engaging than that of her person ; that meekness and modesty are the true and lasting ornaments: for she that has these is qualified, as she ought to be, for the management of a family, for the education of children, for an affection to her husband, and submitting to a prudent way of living. ’ Epictetus. • Can comeliness of form, or shape, or air. With comeliness of words or deeds compare ? No : those at first the unwary heart may gain ; But these, these only, can that heart retain.'—Gay. • 'Tis virtue that doth make them most admired ; ‘Tis modesty that makes them seem divine.'—Shakspeare. ‘Good without effort—great without a foe.’—Byron,