ii8 THINGS A LADY WOULD LUCE TO LCNOW. A dessert-spoonful of arrowroot moistened with a wine-glassful of cold water j add a gill of boiling water, stirring in a table-spoonful of ratafia, and 2 dessert-spoonfuls of loaf sugar. APRIL lO. ‘ She is well fed whom God loves* j. Spring Soup. 3- Bread and Ginger Pudding, 2. Chowder. and Sauce. 1. Spring Soup.—One quart of green peas ; take a good quantity of lettuce, parsley, spinach, and spring onions, if liked. Put them in a close-covered stewpan, with a lump of fresh butter, pepper and salt, and a little water. Squeeze them through a cullender. Throw in some rice that has been previously boiled, season to taste, and let it simmer another quarter of an hour. Thicken with a little flour and ketchup. 2. Chowder.—Frizzle pork and onions till quite brown 3 put a layer at bottom of saucepan—a saucerful 3 on that a layer of mashed potatoes, a soup-plateful 3 on that, raw sea bass (turbot or plaice is a good sub- stitute for sea bass) cut in lumps—four pounds 3 on that, pork and onions as before 3 add half a nutmeg, a spoonful of mace, a spoonful of cloves, and double that quantity of thyme and summer savory, another layer of mashed potatoes, 3 or 4 crackers 3 half a bottle of ketchup, half a bottle of claret, a large pinch of black and a small pinch of cayenne pepper. Just cover this with boiling water, and put it on the fire till the fish is cooked. 3. Bread and Ginger Pudding., and Sauce.—Cut 4 oz. of preserved ginger , into quarter-inch pieces 3 soak 4 oz. of crumb of French roll in half a pint of milk for two hours 3 beat 4 eggs, and mix all together 3 add 2 tea-spoonfuls of ginger syrup, and 4 oz. of loaf sugar in powder 3 beat the mixture for twenty minutes 3 pour it into a buttered mould 3 tie buttered writing paper over, and steam for an hour and a half over fast- boiling water. Turn out with care, and serve with sauce made as follows : Put an inch of bruised ginger and 3 oz. of loaf sugar into a saucepan with half a gill of water, and boil till well flavoured 3 then add a table-spoonful of ginger syrup, the strained juice of a lemon, and a wine-glassful of rum or brandy. Strain the whole of the sauce.