2 95 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. mix with it lemon-peel, parsley, bread, and seasoning. Work together with the yolk of an egg and the butter. Make this into small balls, and fry them. Thicken the gravy with a dessert-spoonful of flour; add the port wine, cayenne, and lemon-juice. Lay in the 2 soles and balls; let them simmer gently five minutes. Serve hot, and garnish with cut lemon, 2. Boiled Turkey.—Cut the first joint of the legs off, pass the middle finger into the inside, raise the skin of the legs, and put them under the apron of the bird. Put a skewer into the joint of the wing and the middle joint of the leg, and run it through the body and the other leg and wing. The liver and gizzard must be put in the pinions. Then turn the small end of the pinion on the back, and tie a pack-thread over the ends of the legs to keep them in their places. Having trussed the turkey for boiling, put it, wrapped in a clean cloth, into sufficient hot water to more than cover it. Bring it gradually to a boil, and carefully remove the scum as it rises, or it will spoil the appearance of the bird. Let it simmer very gently for an hour and a half, or for a longer time if of a large size. When done, serve it on a hot dish with a little celery sauce, oyster sauce, or with parsley and butter; put a small quantity of either over it, and send the other up in a tureen separately. 3. Greengage Fritters.—Two pints of new milk, 10 oz. of arrowroot, a little vanilla, yolks of 8 eggs, sugar to taste, bread-crumbs, greengage or apricot jam. Put the milk in a good-sized stewpan over the fire until it boils; have the arrowroot ready mixed, and stir it into the milk as quickly as possible; add the vanilla and yolks of eggs, the sugar last Stir it for about twenty minutes over a quick fire ; then put it into a deep cutlet-pan, and bake it about ten minutes in a quick oven. When it is quite cold cut out the fritters with a round cutter, and egg and bread-crumb them; glaze and send them up quite hot, with greengage or apricot sauce in the dish. —0— OCTOBER 17. 'Associate with men of good judgment.'—Fuller. T. Oyster Patties. | 3- Apple Fritters. 2. Jugged Hare. I 4- Vegetables. 1. Oyster Patties.—Light puff paste, 2 dozen^ large oysters, i oz. of butter rolled in flour, ^ a gill of good cream, a little grated lemon-peel, a little cayenne pepper, salt, i tea-spoonful of lemon-juice. 2. Jugged Hare.—Y)'vA^^ an undressed hare into joints; let them be larded with bacon. Mix well, upon the dish on which you have made