BILL OF FARE FOR DECEMBER. .171 pints of cold water, a tea-spoonful of salt, a salt-spoonful of white pepper, a salt-spoonful of flour of mustard, half a grain of cayenne, the eighth part of a nutmeg grated, a bay leaf and a laurel leal. Boil up slowly; skim, then simmer for one hour. Take out the gib- lets, strain the liquor, and skim off every particle of fat. Add the liquor and the giblets to 2 quarts of stock; simmer gently for about an hour and a half. Mix 3 table-spoonfuls of baked flour with half a gill of cold stock, a tea-spoonful of soy, and a dessert-spoonful of mushroom ketchup. Stir this into the soup, and boil for twelve minutes; add a small wine-glassful of Marsala or sherry, and serve at once. 2. Pork Cutlets.—Cut 6 or 7 cutlets from the fore-loins of small pork, each the width of the bone; trim off all the fat, and bare the end of the bone about an inch. Season 3 oz. of fine crumbs of bread with a tea- spoonful of salt, a salt-spoonful of white pepper, and the sixth part of a nutmeg grated. Beat a fresh egg on a plate for five minutes ; dip each cutlet into the egg and then into the crumbs; let them stand ten minutes. Cut the fat into small pieces; put it into a frying-pan, and, when sufficiently dissolved, fry the cutlets in it to a pale brown colour (about twenty minutes) over a moderate fire; drain on a sieve before the fire for two minutes. 3. Tomato Sauce. Put a gill (or more) of tomato sauce into a sauce- pan , knead a tea-spoonful of baked flour with ^ oz. of butter, and stir in. Place the cutlets neatly round a hot dish; pour the sauce in the centre, and serve. 5. Swiss Pudding.—Four oz. of bread-crumbs dried and pounded to a fine powder, 4 oz. of loaf sugar, 2 oz. of grated cocoa-nut, 6 oz. of any kind of preserved fruit, 6 oz. of beef-marrow or suet, the milk of the cocoa-nut, or ^ a gill of new milk, and 3 beaten eggs ; beat well and let it stand an hour. Butter a basin ; beat the mixture again for ten minutes; put it into the basin; tie a cloth over, plunge it into fast- boiling water, and boil rapidly for three hours and a half. Turn out carefully and serve, with the following sauce poured over : 6. Cocoa-nut Sauce.—Boil 2 oz. of grated cocoa-nut and 2 oz. of loaf sugar in a gill of water for a quarter of an hour, then rub through a fine sieve; add the beaten yolk of an egg, and i a gill of thick cream. 7. Ckeese.—Cut f lb. of cheese into thin slices (without rind); season with 2 tea-spoonfuls of fresh-made mustard, spread over in layers and a salt-spoonful of black pepper. Put the cheese into a small tin toiter- pour over the top an oz. of dissolved butter; place it before a bright fire for about eighteen minutes. Serve very hot, and with a rack of tresh-made toast also quite not.