THE GARDEN, AND GARDENING. 503 SEPTEMBER. Towards the end of this month or the beginning of next, sow hardy annuals to stand through the winter. The following may be safely re- commended :—Nemophila Discoidalis, Insignis, and Maculata; Gilia Achillmfolia and Tricolour; Clarkia Pulchella and Alba; Platystemon Californicus; Erysimum Perowskianum; Godetia Tenella, Lindleyana, and Rubicunda; Collinsia Verna, Bicolour, Multicolour, and Bartsiasfolia; Limnanthes Douglas!; Bartonia Aurea; Callichroa Platyglossa; Silene Compacta, Pendula, Shaft!, etc.; Virginian Stock; Lupinus Nanus; Cyanus; Eucharidium Grandiflorum; Sanvitalia Procumbens; Esch- scholtzia Crocea and Californica; Leptosiphon Androsaceus ; Calliopsis of the Tinctoria Varieties; Sweet Alyssum; all the annual Candytufts, and Catchfly, etc. With the above a great display may be made in the spring. Autumn-flowering Roses must be supplied with liquid manure. Commence the planting of Narcissus, Crocus, Anemones, and Aconites as soon as the places are vacant. Stake and fasten securely Salvias, Dahlias, Asters, and other autumn-flowering plants. Get in a good stock of cuttings of free-rooting bedding plants in store pots to stand through the winter. Shallow boxes, five inches deep, from two to two and a half feet long, and nine to twelve inches wide, are so far better than pots, that the quantities of cuttings are easier moved from place to place; and provided they are roughly made,—the sides not too perfect a join to the bottom, no drainage will be necessary except a little rough soil or compost over the bottom. Let us recommend, either for pots or boxes, the avoidance of half-rotten tree leaves at the bottom of either such pots or boxes, as they are apt to give no end of crops of fungi. Prepre beds for Pansies. Plant out Pinks; pot off rooted layers of Picotee and Carnation, and plant the rest in nursery beds. Pick off dead seed vessels from Scarlet Geraniums and Verbenas; and indeed, try and make the most of all the late bloom by the constant removal of unsightly refuse, and attention to neatness. OCTOBER. As the season of beauty will soon be over for most of the bedding plants towards the middle and tlie end of the month, begin to take up Scarlet Geraniums, and such like plants, which are required for storing Take up as many as there can possibly be found room for, as old plants will always be found to flower earlier and more abundantly than young cutting plants, providing you can command room to give them suitable treatment; but, m a majority of cases, this does not obtain, and young