55 BILL OB FARE FOR JANUARV. water, to which add 3 onions, 3 turnips, and i carrot cut in pieces. Ering it to the boil, then set it to simmer for three hours, keeping it well skimmed, and adding salt and pepper. Now cut up i small carrot, 2 turnips, i onion, with a little leek and celery, into small pieces, and put them with a wine-glassful of pearl barley into another stewpan. Remove every particle of fat from the broth, and pour it through a hair sieve on to the fresh vegetables, and let it boil gently till the barley is cooked, when it is ready to serve. Cut the meat into nicely sized pieces, and serve separately, covered with parsley or onion sauce. 2. Sweetbread. — Let the sweetbread be well secured with small twine, and roast it before a good bright fire, taking care that it be constantly basted with plenty of fresh butter, and that you allow it twenty-five minutes or half an hour. 5. ALp/e Fritters.—Feel and core 12 dumpling apples boiled quite soft; force the pulp through a sieve j add sugar to your taste. Thicken, moderately, i quart of new milk with fine flour; beat up 8 eggs with a small quantity of grated nutmeg, powdered mace, a tea- spoonful of salt, and a glass of brandy; mix well all together. Let the frjdng-pan be quite hot, and melt ^ lb. of butter in it; place the batter in the pan in separate quantities ot about two spoonfuls each; put a spoonful of apple pulp on every portion, and cover with two more spoonfuls of batter. Grate sugar over them, and serve with a fresh lemon. —0- JANUARY 29. ‘ The character of covetousness is generally acquired more through some mg-ardliness Jew pounds a year would ease that woman of the scandal of avarice. ’—Pope. X. German Pea Soup. 2. Mutton and Beef Pie. 3. Potatoes. 4- Scotch Kale. 5- Mince Pies. r. German Pea Prepare a thickening by gradually mixing in a stewpan 3 oz. of sifted flour with i quart of chicken broth In another stewpan boil up 2 quarts of chicken broth, into which stir the ickemng add a little salt and sugar, and i quart ot yellow peas • a hau rbutfeT' “ “““