336 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. NOVEMBER SO. ‘ Clouds are the veil behind which the face of day coquettishly hides itself to enhattcc its beauty.'—Richter. 1. Hessian Soup. I 3- Boiled Rabbits. 2. Mutton Pie. I 4. Baked Apple Pudding. I. Hessian Soup.—Rub half an ox’s head with salt and water after cleaning it, and soak it for five hours in 5 quarts of warm water. Let it simmer till tender, then put it into a pan to cool, and skim off all the fat; take out the head ; let a pint of split peas be previously soaked, and cut up small 6 potatoes, 6 onions, 6 turnips, 8 carrots, i head of celery. Simmer them (without the meat) till they will pulp through a sieve. Cut up the pieces of meat, put in the crumb of a French roll, and a seasoning of i bunch of savoury herbs, a little allspice, pepper and salt, 2 blades of mace, 4 cloves. Boil up once, and serve. A good ragout or hash can be made of the above by cutting up the nicest parts of the head, thickening and seasoning a little of the soup more highly, and adding 2 table-spoonfuls of ketchup and a glass of port wine. 2. Mutton Pie.—Strip off the meat from the bones of a loin of mutton without dividing it, and cut it into nice thin slices, and season them with pepper and salt j put a pie-crust round the edge of a pie-dish; place in it a layer of mutton, then one of forcemeat, and again the slices of mutton, with 3 or 4 halves of kidneys at equal distances j then pour in a gravy made from the bones, seasoned, and well cleared from fat. Moisten the edge with water; cover with a paste half an inch thick, press it round with your thumbs, make a hole in the centre, and cut the edges close to the dish; ornament the top and border according to your taste, and bake it. 3. Boiled Rabbits.—Y01 boiling, take out the liver and dress it separately ; and to ensure the desirable whiteness of flesh, let the rabbits soak for ten minutes in lukewarm water. Half an hour’s boiling will be sufficient tor those of moderate size, more if they are l^ger. Smother with onion sauce, chop the liver very fine, and serve it m a sauce-boat If you place the sauce round it, it may prevent those who dislike tlie flavour from partaking of the dish. 4 Baked Apple Puddmg.—?tet and core 10 large apples; boil as for sauce; stir in j lb. of butter till cold; beat 5 eggs; put in the nnd of a lemon grated, and juice; sweeten, and bake in puff paste.