to8 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. allspice. Put it on a slow fire, and skim it carefully as it coines to a boil. Let it simmer gently for an hour, then strain it through a hair S16VG. 2 Sir/oin of Beef and Horseradish.—the joint with a clean cloth : place the screen before the fire half an hour before putting down the beef; hang the joint before the fire for the first quarter of an hour, near; baste, then withdraw to a distance, and let it roast slowly done, baste frequently, and dredge with baked flour; add a tea-cup water and half a tea-spoonful of salt to the gravy dripped from the beef, pouring the dripping off first; it takes about a quarter of an hour to the lb. When the Yorkshire pudding is had the same day, put it under the beef while roasting for the last half-hour. 4. Yorkshire Puddmg.—MAy. up a quart of milk, 4 eggs, and a little salt, into a thick batter with flour, as for pancakes. Have a good piece of meat roasting at the fire; put a lump of dripping into a stei^an and set it on the fire; when the fat boils, pour in the pudding, bake till nearly done, then take away the dripping-pan, and set t e stewpan under the meat, that the gravy and dripping ° pudding, and the heat of the fire may reach it and make it broiTO. When the meat is done, drain the fat from the pudding, slide it as dry as possible into a dish, and serve it up with the meat DESSERT FOR THE MONTH OF MARCH. stand of flowers or other embellishments. Centre of the table—a 1. Imperial Rice Cake. A Whipped Cream. 2. Compote de Pommes a la Nor- MANDE. 3. Pears; Apples. 4. Queen Cakes. 5. Macarons aux Fleurs d’Oranger. 6. Amandes Pralinees.' 7. Gaufres, Brazil and B.arce- lona Nuts, Marrons Glaces, Dried Fruits, Moulded Ices, Dragees, Preserved Prunello, Fruit Jellies, Pastilles, Raisins, Burnt Almonds, Fromage Glace, Petits Baisers, Batons Sucres, Con- fitures A LA VALENCIENNE. I. IMPERIAL RICE CAKE. Put a or. of.ivhole rice >o -U " «te nidi a pint Tii:«m it in.o a d^h, and stir it occasionally