430 THINGS A LADY WOULD LlIiE TO KNOW. and plain melted butter in a cup. It will be greatly improved thus: —About ten minutes before it is done, strain off all the liquor, and replace it with a cupful of milk ; roll a lump of butter in some flour ; add a little chopped lemon-peel, pepper, and salt; mix all well together, and let it boil gently for about ten minutes. This way of dressing tripe is both cheap and delicious. To fry Bacon and Eggs,—Cut the bacon in thin rashers, and fry it as before directed; when done, lay it in a hot dish before the fire. Break the eggs in separate cups, and place them gently in the pan; keep them in a round, flat shape. When the white is set, take them out of the pan with a slice, and place an egg on each rasher. The pretty appearance of the dish is spoiled if the eggs be broken, for which reason great care must be used in taking them out of the pan. Rabbit to taste like Hare, with Red Currant Jelly.—Choose one young, but full grown; hang it in the skin three or four days; then skin it, and lay it, without washing, in a seasoning of black pepper and all- spice in very fine powder, a glass of port wine, and a glass of vinegar. Baste it occasionally, then stuff' and roast it as a hare, and with the same sauce. Do not wash off the liquor it was soaked in. Devils.—The gizzard of a turkey scored and rubbed with fresh butter and soluble cayenne, is esteemed an admirable zest The backbone of mackerel similarly treated makes the best devil. Fondu.—Four eggs, the weight of 2 in Parmesan or good Cheshire cheese, the weight of 2 in butter, pepper and salt to taste. Separate the yolks from the whites of the eggs; beat the yolks in a basin, and grate the cheese, or cut into very thm flakes. Parmesan or Cheshire cheese may be used, whichever is the most convenient, although the former is considered more suitable for this dish; or an equal quantity of each may be used. Break the butter into small pieces; add the other ingredients, and season with pepper and salt, and well-beat the mixture. Stir lightly in the whites of 4 eggs well whisked. Fill the dish only half full, as the fondu should rise a good deal. Bake in a small round tin, or in a so2cfflee-6.i%\i, about a quarter of an hour or twenty minutes. If not served very hot, and eaten directly, the beauty and lightness will be destroyed. Ham Omelet.—Ingredients : 6 eggs, 4 oz. of butter, half a salt-spoon- ful of pepper, 2 table-spoonfuls of minced ham. Mode.—Mince the fiam very finely without any fat, and fry it for two minutes in a little butter; then make the batter for the omelet; stir in the ham, and proceed as in the case of a plain omelet. Do not add any salt to the batter, as the ham is usually sufficiently salt to impart a flavour. Good lean bacon or tongue answers equally well for this dish, but they must also be slightly cooked previously to mixing them with the