273 BILL OF FARE FOR SEPTEMBER. SEPTEMBER 2 0. ‘ A noble heart, like the sun, throweth its greatest countenance in its lowest estate. ’— Sir P. Sidney. 1. Fried Conger. 4. Strawberry and Crumb 2. Hashed Beef. Pudding. 3. Vegetables. 1. Fried Conger.—Cut the conger into slices an inch and a half or two inches thick, or a little thicker, according to the size of the fish. This is the best way to cut conger for frying, and most other purposes for which it may require similar subdivision \ because by it the solid back of the fish and the richer under part go together, which they do not when collops are cut longitudinally. Cover the fish with egg and bread-crumbs, and fry it in plenty of fat, made to boil before the fish is putm. Take care that the frying-pan is perfectly clean, and that the fish is fried to a bright colour. Serve it with lemon to squeeze over it, plain melted butter, oyster sauce, shrimp sauce, or any sauce preferred.” 2. Hashed Beef.—Vnt the gravy of the meat into a stewpan, with a pint of water, a tea-cupful of mushroom ketchup, half an onion chopped very fine, half a tea-spoonful of salt, and a third of soluble cayenne; boil for about ten minutes, dip out a cupful of the liquid, and rub a table-spoonful of flour in it, then stir it well into the stewpan, and let all boil for ten minutes; pass it through a sieve, return it to the pan, put in the slices of beef, and just before taking up throw in half a wine-glass of Tarragon vinegar. 4. Strawberry and Crumb Pudding.—h. quart of new milk, 4 eggs, a httle nutmeg, 2 oz. of sugar, i small pot of strawberry jam, i lb. of bread- crumbs. Butter a pie-dish, and put a small pot of strawberiy jam at the bottom, then a good layer of bread-crumbs. Well beat 4 eggs • stir into them 2 oz. of powdered sugar and a little grated nutmeg; add a quart of new milk, and stir it over the fire until it fs sufficiently thick; pour It over the preserve very gradually, and bake the pudding in a veiy moderate oven. ° ^ SEPTEMBER 21. hearts are united to each other, matrimony has no 1. Herrings. 2. Rabbit Pie. 3. Vegetables. 4- Apple Dumplings. ^ penknife make three or four incision- e fish on each side; cut an onion in thin slices; place both or