393 TIIIiYGS A LADY WOULD LUCE TO LCNOIV. large thick fish, thirty minutes; the same weight from a small fish, twenty-five minutes; 4 lbs. of a split fish, twenty minutes; a whole fish weighing 7 or 8 lbs., thirty minutes. Serve the salmon on a fine napkin, neatly rolled round the edges, and with shrimp sauce, unless any other be preferred; the quantity, according to the number of persons; three-quarters of a pint is sufficient for five or six. Note i.—Skimming may seem unnecessary; but if neglected, the scum adheres to the fish and destroys the good appearance. If time be of consequence, it will be well to boil the fish in a cloth as follows: —Place the fish upon the drainer, throw a large clean cloth over the handles, and pin it underneath the plate so as not to touch the fish, but to completely cover it. This renders skimming unnecessary. Note 2. The liver and roe of salmon are not sent to table. 3. Shrimp Sauce.—(Three-quarters of a pint.)—Have the third of a pint of nicely picked fresh-boiled shrimps; put half of them into a mortar, and pound to a smooth paste; add 3 table-spoonfuls of thick fresh cream. Knead 3 oz. of fresh butter with a table-spoonful of baked flour, and stir into half a pint of boiling water. Boil eight minutes; put in the whole shrimps; simmer three minutes, then stir in the shrimp cream. Serve immediately. 5. Veal Olives.—Scrape ^ a lb. of uncooked veal and i oz. of lean ham; clean and pound i anchovy; mix well together, and season with the tenth part of a nutmeg grated, a quarter of a grain of cayenne, I salt-spoonful of pepper (white), i salt-spoonful of mixed sweet herbs, I tea-spoonful of chopped parsley, i dessert-spoonful of Oswego flour, I oz. of veal suet finely chopped, and i well-beaten egg. Cut some slices of veal off the fillet, as Ihiu as possible, and trim them into pieces four inches and a half long and three wide (six will be required); roll these flat with the rolling-pin; have the same number of pieces of fat bacon, cut so thin that they are almost transparent; divide the force- meat into six parts, roll one part in each piece of veal, and over that the bacon ; bind them round with tape. Put the six olives into a small stewpan with a tea-cupful of good gravy, and simmer for two hours; baste the olives constantly with the gravy; take them out, remove the tape carefully; put them neatly on a dish ; skim, and strain the gravy, add half a wine-glass of Marsala and the strained juice of a lemon; pour it over, and serve. 6. Stewed Brisket of Beef rvith French Bea71s.-Tl3.ve a neatly cut square piece of brisket of beef, about 7 lbs.; hang it befoie a quick fire for half an hour to brown ; baste it well; put it into a stewpan with 3 chopped onions fried brown, and sufficient water to reach the top, but not quite cover it; boil up and skim; then add i tea-spoonful of pepper, i tea-spoonful of fresh-made mustard, i dessert-spoonful of soy,