109 DESSERT FOR MARCH. until it is cold. Beat to a paste ^ lb. of blanched sweet almonds mixed with a spoonful of laurel water. Whisk the yolks of 8 and the whites of 4 eggs, add to them 2 oz. of butter worked to a cream, the rasped rind of a lemon, and 8 oz. of sifted loaf sugar. Put in the almond paste, and then the rice, being careful that it is nicely granulated. Mix all well together, put it quickly into a hoop or mould, buttered and dusted with sugar; bake it for three-quarters of an hour in a moderate oven. 2. COMPOTE DE POMMES A LA NORMANDE. Take 7 small-sized Normandy pippins, and set them to simmer in half water and half white wine, with a small pinch of saffron. When they are becoming transparent, put enough sugar to sweeten them, allow them to boil five minutes, then take them up, arrange them in a com- potier. Simmer the syrup until it becomes a clear jelly, being par- ticular to skim it, and then strain it over your fruit. Cider may be used instead of wine and water, and a few cloves are sometimes added. 3. FRENCH MARMALADE OF ORANGE OR LEMON. Take the entire rinds of 12 oranges or lemons, put it into plenty of tresh water, and boil it gently until it is quite tender; then take it up and throw it into a pan of cold water; let it remain for eight or ten hours. Drain it, mash it smoothly, pass it through a sieve, weigh it, and to each pound of pulp allow a pound of highly-refined loaf sugar. Put it into a preserving-pan, and stir it well over a very moderate fire until it is a tolerably thick paste. Put it away in small pots for use. The juice and pulp are not used. 4. QUEEN CAKES. Work a pound of butter to a cream, put to it a lb. of beaten and sifted sugar, add the whites of 8 eggs whisked for twenty minutes; beat the yolks for nearly an hour. Mix all thoroughly together, add a lb. of dried flour, i lb. of well-washed currants, and sufficient nutmeg and cinnamon. Put portions of this mixture into heart-shaped tins sift sugar over them, and bake in a moderate oven. ’ 5. MACARONS AUX FLEURS d’oRANGER. Take 2 oz. of candied orange blossoms, mix them with a lb. and a half 01 powdered and sifted loaf sugar, and the beaten whites of 8 eggs ; whisk