3i8 Tlf/A’GS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 2. Hare Pie.—Cut the hare into small pieces, and season it with pepper, salt, nutmeg, and mace; put it into a jar, cover it close, and set it over the fire in a deep stewpan of boiling water, and let it stew until half done. Make a forcemeat with ^ lb. of scraped bacon i onion minced fine, the crumb of a French roll grated, the liver chopped fine, a little winter savoury, grated nutmeg, and a glass of port wine. Season it with pepper and salt, and mix it well together with the yolks of 3 well-beaten eggs. • Line the side and edge of a dish with puff paste; put the forcemeat at the bottom, and then the pieces of hare, with the gravy that ran from it in the jar; cover it over with a pufif paste; make a hole in the top, egg it over, and bake. 3. Worcester Pudding.—One tea-spoonful of carbonate of soda, 2 tea-cupfuls of flour, lb. of suet, ^ lb. of stoned raisins, i table- spoonful of sugar, i pint of milk, peel of half a lemon, and some nutmeg. Mix the carbonate of soda with the flour, the suet chopped very fine, the raisins stoned, the sugar, grated lemon-peel, and nutmeg; mix all together with a pint of milk : put it into a basin or mould; boil it two hours and a half, and serve it with sweet sauce. NOVEMBER 9. ‘ Rememher that in all miseries lamenting becomes fools, and action wisefolk.' Sir. P. Sidney. 1. Chicken Soup. 3. Lemon Turnovers. 2. Devonshire Squab Cake. 4. Vegetables. 1. Chicken Soup.—Put 2 quarts of white stock, lb. of bacon stuck with cloves, ^ oz. of butter worked up in flour, i small fowl trussed for boiling, into a stewpan, and stew for three-quarters of an hour. Take 2 oz. of vermicelli, add to it a little of the stock, and set it on the fire till quite tender. When the soup is ready, take out the fowl and bacon, and put the bacon on a dish. Skim the soup as clean as possible; pour it, with the vermicelli, over the fowl. Cut some bread thin, put in the soup, and serve. 2. Devonshire Squab Pie.—Cover a pie-dish with a good pie-crust, and put at the bottom of it a layer of pippins pared, cored, and cut into slices, then a layer of mutton steaks, cut from the loin, and well seasoned with pepper and salt; then put another layer of pippins, and 2 onions sliced thin (but previously boiled in two waters, to extract the strong flavour), and put over the pippins; then again with mutton, pippins, and onions until the dish is full; pour in a pint of water; put a cover