491 RECIFES FOR ACCIDENTS, ETC. two tea-spoonfuls when restless or flatulent. I can most confidmtly cotmnend the above to mothers for infatits up to a year old. Any chemist can prepare it in a few minutes. Diarrhoea Mixture.—Diluted nitric acid, 5 drops ; diluted sulphuric acid, 10 drops; laudanum, 5 drops ; chloric ether, 10 drops; tincture of gum catechu, 20 drops; peppermint or cinnamon water, a small wine-glassful. To be taken at one dose for an adult, and repeated every two or three hours if required. Children 10 to 12 years of age, half the above dose; and younger, less in proportion to age. A speedy Remedy for Recent Colds.—Ten drops of spirit of sal-volatile, chloric ether, and red lavender, taken in a wine-glassful of camphor julep, and repeated at intervals of a few hours. Lotion for Sprains.—Sal ammoniac, ^ an oz.; rose-water, ^ a pint ; eau-de-Cologne, a table-spoonful. Rags wet with the lotion should be laid on the injured part, and changed when they get dry. The above lotion will be found very useful and refreshing if applied as a wash for the face, neck, arms, etc., during warm summer weather, allaying much the inconveniences of profuse perspiration. A Good Pick-7ne-up.—Dissolve as much bicarbonate of potash as will cover a threepenny-piece and a small lump of white sugar in a wine- glassful of cold water; then add a tea-spoonful each of tincture of gentian and tincture of cardamoms, and half that quantity of sal-volatile. Stir, and drink all. Palpitation of the Heart.a pint of cold water. Marseilles Vinegar, a Preventive to Ijtfection.—lnk\s& rue, sage, mint, rosemary, wormwood, of each a handful, in 2 quarts of the sharpest vinegar, over warm embers for eight days; then strain it through a flannel, and add g- an oz. of camphor dissolved in 2 oz. of rectified spirits of wine. With this wash the face and mouth, and snufif a little up the nose when you pay your visit. Smell to a sponge dipped therein when you approach infected places. Sore Throat. Take a pint of cold water when in bed, or eat as many apples as you can, and drink apple water. An Inflamed Sore Throat. Lay nitre and loaf sugar, mixed, on the tongue. For Pad Digestion.~Qx\xs\ the juice of half a large lemon immedi- ately after dinner every day. Flatulence.—five or seven corns of white pepper for six or seven mornings. A Prick or Cut that Festers.—Apply turpentine with a small bnish. The Qutnsey. Swallow, slowly, white rose-water mixed with syrun of mulberries. ^ Rheumatism.—the cold bath frequently, with rubbing and sweat-