42 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. long; then draw out the crop. Make a stuffing of suet, bread-crumbs, and parsley, chopped fine; add pepper, salt, lemon-peel, and a little nutmeg, and then mix with two eggs, well beaten, and sufficient milk (if required) to wet the whole. The stuffing is to be placed lightly in the breast, so as to leave room for swelling; and the skin is then drawn over it, and sewn neatly across the back. Place the liver in one wing, and the gizzard in the other; turn the wing on to the back, and fix them with a skewer. Have ready a deep kettle of boiling water; put in the bird, let the water boil two minutes, and then reduce the tem- perature. A turkey, according to its size and age, will take from an hour and a half to two hours and a half; but if very large and old, three hours. Be careful not to let it boil fast, and to keep the turkey covered by adding hot water from time to time. When done, place breast upwards, on a large hot dish, and pour a little sauce over it. , . n • 3. Celery Sauce—for boiled turkey. Wash and cut into small pieces 2 heads of fine white celery j put it into pints of new milk, and simmer (about an hour) till quite tender. _ Then rub it through a fine sieve, beat the yolks of 4 eggs with a gill of thick cream; mix all together, stir over a gentle fire for five or six minutes till the sauce thickens; put the fowl on a hot dish, pour ^ pint over the breast, and put the rest in a sauce tureen. _ 4. Plum-pudding. — A good plum-pudding without any eggs. M well together 6 oz. currants, do. raisins, \ lb. flour, i b. brown sug^, i lb. chopped suet. Have ready, of mashed carrot i lb., and mashed potatoes i lb.; stir them with the currants, etc.; then add i oz. cand e Son, k of candied lemon-peel, and r table-spoonful of treacle._ Do not put any liquid whatever in, or it will spoil it. If put m a ^asm, do not fill it, as it must have room to swell; if m a cloth, tie it oose y, boil it for four hours. It is better to mi.x this pudding the day before. Serve with brandy sauce. JANUARY 14. ‘ Her worth shines forth the brightest, who tit h^e Always confides: The abjea soul despairs. -Euripides. 1. COCK-A-LEEKIE. 2. Broccoli. 3. Mashed Potatoes. 4. Regent’s Pudding and Sauce. .. 4 .0 6 ,bs. of good sbin bee^ell b.oben, loTbStog; i. b^ons, ba.r .be o.