HINTS FOR DEPORTMENT, ETC. 5” task of assimilating herself, in her new character, to those with whom she is henceforth to dwell, to be both painful and difficult. If she be solicitous to promote unanimity between her new connections and her- self, she will perhaps examine how far she can yield to their preju- dices, and in what degree she ought to maintain her own. By yielding a little, she makes, at least, her road smoother, if she do not thereby lay the foundation of esteem and affection, not to be shaken for the future by any trifling cause. As the happiness of the husband is liable to interruption, and his temper to be tried, by the petty umbrages and irritations between his wife and his relations, it is her duty, and assuredly the best mode of securing her own happiness, to endeavour to please them, so as to engage their affections if possible. A deter- mination to be pleased herself is half-way towards pleasing them ; and this may be shown by her willingness to discover their agreeable traits of character, rather than, with the critical penetration of ill-humour, to mark their weaknesses and errors. By pleasing manners at first, she may secure herself a favourable reception into her husband’s family; and in time, when she has proved her worth, her footing amongst them will be on a surer foundation. Many and various are the means to promote happiness in married life. A cheerful manner, a kind word, a readiness to oblige, can always diffuse a pleasing influence around’ ‘I noticed,’ observes Dr. Franklin in his Life, ‘a mechanic among a number of others, at work in a house, erecting but a little way from my office, who always appeared to be in a merry humour,—who had a kind word and a cheerful smile for every one he met. Let the day be ever so cold, gloomy, or sunless, a happy smile danced like a sunbeam on his cheerful countenance. Meeting him one morning, I asked him to secret of his constant happy flow of spirits. “No secret. Doctor, he replied; “ I have got one of the best of wives, and when I go to work she always has a kind word of encouragement for me • and when Ip horne she meets me with a smile and a kiss, and then ’tea is sure to be ready; and she has done so many little things during the day to a^nybodyT’ A wife at the outset of her career should make it her determination every possible way, to gam the sympathies of her husband, and she nl rarely fail when she applies herself cheerfully to the task.— AVOID UNPUNCTUAL PEOPLE. If you desire to enjoy life, avoid unpunctual people Thev i bus.ne.3 and poison pleasure. Make it your o™ not oLlT k' punctual, but a httle beforehand. Such a habit secures a composure