8o THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. lemon-peel cut very fine, and a tumbler of brandy : mix all these well together; boil in a cloth for six hours, and pour melted butter over the pudding just before serving. —0— FEBRUARY 28. They who have the true taste of conversation, enjoy themselves in a communication of each other’s excellences, and not in a tHumph over their imperfections.'— 1. Slit Lobster. 2. Chops, with Cucumber Sauce. 3. Mashed Potatoes. 4. Bread Pudding. I. Slit Lobster.—Procure the finest and freshest of lobsters possible 3 cut it in halves, detaching the head from the body; take out all the meat, and save the shells; cut the meat into slices ; then put a tea- spoonful of chopped shalots in a stewpan, with a piece of butter the size of 2 walnuts; pass them a few minutes over the fire; add a tea- spoonful of flour, well mixed with ^ pint of milk, and^ stir over the fire, boiling about five minutes ; then add the lobster, which season with a little cayenne, salt, chopped parsley, and essence of anchovies Set it again on the fire, stirring until boiling; then stir in the yolk of an egg, tie off the fire; fill the shells of the lobster: sprinkle bread-crumbs over it, with a little butter ; put in the oven twenty minutes, and serve. To give it a nice colour, use the salamander. 2 Chops with Cucumber Sauce.—Yox the cucumber sauce, cut up exactly as if for eating: put in a little butter at the bottom of the stewpan; when it is melted, stir in a little flour; then place your cucumber on it; add just enough^ broth to cover it, and boil till the slices are quite tender, without falling to pieces. , • , r -lu 4. Bread Pudding.—Yova oz. of bread, 2 oz. of suet, ^ pint of milk, 3 eggs well beaten, a little brandy, nutmeg, and sugar. FEBRUARY 29. ‘ When the mind loses its feeling for elegance, it grows corrupt in the crowd what ottght to be found at home. —Landor. 1. Fried Soles. 2. Roast Leg of Pork. 3. Apple Sauce. 4. Mashed Potatoes. 5. Apple Dumplings. I Fried Solesoflf the upper and under skin, rub over mth .he w“S and lay on .he fish with a flat brush ; nex. shew .he