153 BILL OF FARE FOR MA K and stewed in beef or veal gravy; then forced through a sieve, seasoned with salt and pepper to the taste, and warmed again for use. 3. Sauce to Boiled Fowls.—Cut thin slices of lemon into very small dice, and put them in melted butter; give it one boil, and pour it over boiled fowls. 4. Gooseberry Tart and Custards.—Remove the tops and tails, and pile the fruit in a pie-dish; line the edge with crust; put on the cover, and ornament the edges of the tart. Bake for about three-quarters of an hour; and when done, dust some white sugar over it, and serve with custard (Bright’s Vegetable is the best). MAY 21. * Lffve doth ever shed Rich healing where it nestles—spread O'er desert pillows some g}-een palm.'—Gerald Massey. 1. I.OBSTER Soup. 2. Beef a la Mode. 3. Vegetables. 4. Gooseberry Fool. 1. Lobster Soup.—Make a jelly-broth ; add to this the interior, coral, and pea of the lobster; cut the meat of the claws and tail into small bits about the size of dice; strain the liquor, put in the meat, and serve quite hot. Two lobsters are necessary for an ordinary-sized tiureen. 2. ^ Beef a la Mode.—'^xocnxQ about ten pounds’ weight of buttock, and cut it into bits of about a quarter of a pound each. Chop a couple of large onions very fine, and put them into a large stewpan, with a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, or fresh and well-clarified beef dripping. Wliilst this is warming, cover the pieces of beef with flour; put them into the pan, and stir them for ten minutes, adding a little more flour by slow degrees, and taking great care the meat does not burn. Pour in, a little at a time, a gallon of boiling water, then add a couple of drachms of ground allspice, one of black pepper, and a couple of bay leaves. Let all this stew, on a low fire and very gently, for three hours and a quarter; ascertain with a fork if the meat be tender: if so, you may serve it in a tureen or deep dish. A well-dressed salad IS the proper accompaniment of Boeuf d, la Mode. _ 4. Gooseberry Top and tail some green gooseberries; to each pint of the pulp use i pint cream and \ pint milk, or a pint of milk, ter the berries are top and tailed, put them in a jar with some 01st sugar and 2 table-spoonfuls of water; set in a saucepan of boilin^ ater, letting it boil till the fruit is soft enough to mash ; then beat to a