^PARTY' DINNER FOR APRIL. 395 6. Boiled Fowl with Parsley Sauce.—\y\^ the fowl in hot \yater for one minute, and rub it well over with a cut lemon. This process will make it white. Cover the breast with a thin slice of fat bacon ; tie the fowl in a clean white cloth; put it into a saucepan (breast uppermost) with just sufficient cold water to cover it; boil up quickly, then simmer gently till done. Wash a good bunch of parsley in salted water; dip it twice into boiling water; chop the leaves quite fine; knead a ^ of a lb. of butter with a table-spoonful of baked flour, and stir into the third of a pint of the water the fowl is boiled in; simmer five minutes: stir in a dessert-spoonful of the chopped.parsley; place the fowl in a hot dish (without the bacon), draw out the skewers, pour half of the sauce over the breast, and serve the remainder in a tureen, and send to table at once. 7. Tongue.—If a dried tongue, soak it for twelve hours; put the tongue into cold water, enough to well cover it; boil up slowly and skim; simmer very gently till done. A large tongue, to be well do7ie, will require six hours from the time of putting it on, and a small one, from four to five hours. Take off the skin, trim the fat, and cut off the rough part of the root. Have a nicely cut frill of foolscap paper, put it round the root, fasten it with two small silver skewers, and serve. 8. Loin of Mutton Roasted.—Place it before a quick bright fire, quite close, for ten minutes; draw it back, and roast slowly at a distance for one hour. A few minutes before serving, dredge it with baked flour and ^ a salt-spoonful of salt; baste it well from the beginning. Pour off the dripping, and serve its own gravy, with a little boiling water added to it in the dish. 11. Le/non Pudding.—Half a lb. of fresh butter beaten to cream, ^ a lb. of sifted loaf sugar, the grated rind and strained juice of 2 lemons, 4 table-spoonfuls of Oswego, and 6 fresh eggs; beat the whole together for twenty minutes. Make a paste as follows Six oz. of sifted flour, 6 oz. of butter, a tea-spoonful of loaf sugar, the yolk of an egg beaten with a wine-glassful of cold water. Rub the butter into flour till quite mixed, add the liquid, and knead to a paste; roll it out the sixth of an inch thick. Line a pie-dish, ornament the edge to taste, put in the pudding, and bake in a quick oven for thirty-five or forty minutes. Serve hot or cold. 12. Apple Charlotte.—Vare and cutup 18 good cooking apples; put them into a skillet, with two-thirds their weight of loaf sugar, the grated rind and strained juice of 2 lemons, the fourth part of a nutmeg grated, 2 cloves, and a wine-glassful of Marsala; boil, and stir till in a rich marmalade, then rub through a fine sieve. Cut off the ends of 18 Savoy biscuits; butter a plain mould, and stick the biscuits closely round it in an upright position, the flat side inwards. Pour in the marmalade while