2Ro things a lady would like to know. SEPTEMBER 29. ‘ Prejudice may be considered as a continual false medium of viewing things; foi prejudiced persons not only never speak, but never think well of those whom they dislike. —Butler. 1. Pepperpot. I 3. Vegetables. 2. lioT Pot. 1 4. Venetian Fritters. 1. Pepperpot.—Put 4 lbs. of gravy beef into 6 quarts of water, with the bouquet of savoury herbs; let it simmer well till all the goodness is extracted, skimming it well. Let it stand till cold, that all the fat may be taken off it. Put it into a stewpan and heat it When hot add the flesh of 2 middling-sized crabs or lobsters, nicely cut up; spinach well boiled and chopped fine; ^ a pound of cold bacon or pickled pork, dressed previously and cut into small pieces; a few small dumplings, made very light with flour, beef-suet, yolk of egg, and a little water. Add i pound of asparagus tops; season to your taste with cayenne, salt, pepper, and juice of a lemon; stew for about half an hour, stirring it constantly. 2. Hot Pot.—Cut 3 lbs. of rump-steak into square pieces; cut 8 01 10 potatoes in quarters, some whole small onions (and mushrooms if in season), with 6 kidneys; well season with cayenne, black pepper, and salt. Place all in layers, one on the other; pour over them 3 or 4 table- spoonfuls of mushroom ketchup, and put 6 or 7 dozen oysters at the top; cover with a crust, and bake for two hours. A few larks or snipes are considered a great addition. This dish must be made in a fire- proof-pan, in shape like a cheese-pan or turtle-mug. 4. Venetian Fritters.—Pick, wash, and drain 3 oz. of whole rice; put it into a full pint of cold milk, and bring it very slowly to boil; stir often, and let it simmer gently until quite thick and dry. When about three parts done, add 2 oz. of pounded sugar, and i of fresh butter, a grain of salt, and the grated rind of a small lemon. Let it cool in the saucepan, and when only just warm mix with it thoroughly 3 oz. of currants, 4 apples chopped fine, a tea-spoonful of flour, and 3 well- beaten eggs. Drop the mixture in small fritters; fry them in butter from 5 to 7 minutes, and let them become quite firm on one side before they are turned; do this with a slice. Drain them as they are taken up, and sift white sugar over when dished.