241 BILL OF FARE FOR AUGUST. of rice, k lb. of potatoes, i handful of oatmeal. Cut the beef into small pieces, and put them into a stewpan with the water, onions, and the turnips; add a bunch of thyme and parsley, a seasoning ot pepper and salt, lb. of Patna rice, a lb. of potatoes peeled and cut in quarters, and a handful of oatmeal. Let all stew for four hours, ^nd serve. 2. Neck of Veal Braized.—Trim the best end of a neck of veal by cutting off the chine bone and the rib bones short; set it on the fire in cold water to blanch; when it boils, take it off and put it into cold water for a few minutes while preparing a braizing-pan, thus : Lay the bottom over with sheets of bacon ; put the veal in, and cover that also with bacon; put in a few onions, a faggot of sweet herbs, a few blades of mace, and a carrot sliced. Braize it about two hours in a light braize; when done, take it up, drain it dry, and pour sauce d la Reine over. It may be glazed with light glaze instead; and serve with any ptiree of vegetables under, as tomatoes, lentils, etc., or with stewed peas, sorrel, or endive. 4. Lemon Custard.—Take lb. of loaf sugar, the juice of 2 lemons, the peel of i pared very thin, boiled tender, and rubbed through a sieve, and a pint of white wine. Let all boil for a quarter of an hour; then take out the peel and a little of the liquor, and set them to cool. Pour the rest into the dish you intend for it. Beat the yolks of the eggs and the whites, and mix them with the cool liquor. Strain them into your dish, stir them well up together, and set them on a slow fire in boiling- water. When done, grate the peel of a lemon on the top, and brown ic over with a salamander. This custard may be eaten hot or cold. AUGUST 2 0. * If solid happiness we prize, Within ottr breast this jewel lies ; And they are fools who roam. The world has nothing to bestow : From our own selves our joys must flew. And that dear cot—our home.'—Cotton. 1. Soup ET Bouilu. 3. Vegetables. 2. Fillet OF Veal Daubed. 4. Rice Flummery. 1. Soup et Bouilli.—'TskQ about 2^ lbs. brisket of beef, roll it up tight, and fasten it with a piece of tape. Put it into a stewpan with - lbs. of the leg of mutton, piece of beef, and a gallon of water; let it boil slowly; skim it well, and put in an onion stuck with cloves, 2 carrots 2 turnips, a leek, a head of celery cut into slices, with some whole pepper. Cover the stewpan close, and stew the whole very slowly for