452 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. fire, stirring it frequently:—Four oz. of cumming seed, 4 oz. of Jamaica ginger, 4 oz. of black pepper, 1 lb. of pale turmeric seed, 8 oz. of coriander seed, 10 oz. of carraway seed, ^ oz. of cardamoms, 2 oz. of cayenne pepper. A Store Sauce.—Pound some green walnuts in a mortar, squeeze out the juice through a strainer, and let it stand to settle. Pour off the clear juice, and to every pint of it add i lb. of anchovies, i drachm of cloves, I drachm of Jamaica ginger bruised, i drachm of mace. Boil all these till the anchovies are dissolved, then strain the juice again; put in 8 shalots to every pint, and boil again. To every pint of the boiled liquor add 2 table-spoonfuls of soy, a pint of vinegar, and ^ a pint of port wine, and bottle for use. Cork tightly, and seal the corks. Store Sauce.—Boil the following ingredients gently for about half an hour:—One pint of vinegar, i table-spoonful of walnut ketchup, 2 table-spoonfuls of soy, ^ an oz. of cayenne pepper, 5 cloves of garlic. Strain and bottle. Superlative Mixture for Stews, etc., and Gravies.—Mix the following ingredients well together, then bottle and cork it closely ; keep it in a warm closet for three weeks before using. The longer it is kept the better shake the bottle before using. Ingredients :—One quart of mush- room ketchup, I pint of port wine, 6 pickled walnuts, a table-spoonful of horseradish finely grated, a table-spoonful of curry powder, a salt- spoonful of celery seed pounded, a salt-spoonful of cayenne, i oz. of garlic, I oz. of anchovies pounded, | a pint of soy, the grated rind of i and the strained juice of 3 lemons, the fourth part of a nutmeg grated, a tea-spoonful of yellow mustard-seed, a tea-spoonful of ground ginger. Sweet Sauce, for Puddmgs, Bread, Rice, or Batter, Make | a pint of melted butter with milk (omit the salt in the butter); stir in 3 table-spoonfuls of pounded sugar; add nutmeg, powdered cinnamon, or lemon rind grated. Previous to making the melted butter, about 12 bitter almonds may be infused into the milk for half an hour, tlien strained, and added to the other ingredients. Sweet Sauce, for Venison.—Y\s\. into a stewpan i glass of port wine, and red currant jelly (a small pot of); set them over the fire to melt, but not boil; pour in a tureen, and then serve. Tomato Sauce, for keeping.—To 12 tomatoes allow 2 tea-spoonfuls of the best powdered ginger, i dessert-spoonful of salt, i head of garlic chopped fine, 2 table-spoonfuls of vinegar, i dessert-spoonful of Chili vinegar. Choose ripe tomatoes; put them into a stone jar, and stand them in a cool oven till quite tender. When cold, take the skins and stalks from them; mix the pulp with the liquor which is m the jar, but do not strain it; add all the other ingredients ; mix well together, and put it into well-sealed bottles. It will be kept good for years if stored