iS3 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 5. Gooseberry Pudding.—Make a good suet crust (of veal, or beef- kidney suet), 8 oz. suet pounded with 2 of butter, and worked with the fingers into a lb. of flour. A richer crust will take 16 oz. suet, flour li lbs butter 4 oz., and a small tea-spoonful of salt. Line the basin with it about half an inch thick. Top and tail the gooseberries (green about li pints to a quart of them), and put in the basin with ^ lb. of moist sugar; cover with crust, pinch the edges together, tie a floured cloth over; put it into boiling water, and boil from two hours and a half to three hours. Turn it out, and serve with a jug of good cream. JUNE 27. ‘ A masculine ■woman must be naturally an unamiable creature. Rev. James Fordyce, D.D. 1. Vegetable Soup. 2. Breast of Mutton a la St. Menhould. 3. Batter Pudding. 4. Sauce to ditto. 5. Vegetables. 1. Vegetable Soup.—For a tureen of soup, take about 2 quarts of veal consomme quite free from fat; make it boiling hot; add the vegetables to it about a quarter of an hour before serving, so that the green vegetables may retain their colour, and the whole become perfectly hot; season with salt and a pinch of sugar, and serve. 2. Breast of Mutton d la St. Menhould.—a breast of mutton and braize it. When done, take it up with a slice, and pull out the bones; season it with pepper and salt; dip it in melted butter; cover it well with bread-crumbs; boil it over a gentle fire, and serve it vi clcEr ffr3.vy. . 3. Batter Pudding.—up, with a whisk, 4 newdaid eggs ; when the yolks and whites are well mixed, gently crumble in 4 oz. of fine >- sifted flour in which half a tea-spoonful of salt has ^een nnxed; pour upon *e flour and egg half a pint of cream or new m.lk, “d add a table-spoonful of powdered white sugar, and enough grated nutmeg to cfver Sixpence" See that the mould be well buttered t pour m the batter cover the bottom with buttered paper, and secure all xiith a Xei c"th. Boil for an hour and a quarter. Pour wme sauce over it before sending to table. . 4. &»ce/u,f/«e.-Thiclten half a pmt of “f cording to the directions for custards on the packets. Beat the yolk Z Z very well, and stir it into the custard when that ts at bo, mg pointfbut do not boil it; then put in a piece ol fresh butter, not larger