5^0 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. mode or gayer dress than yourself, without wishing to imitate them. Be content with such things as you have j and be more than ever solicitous for the embellishments of the mind and the graces of the heart. Occupy your time and thoughts in the faithful discharge of your new duties, and in improving your qualifications for that purpose. Carry on this plan steadily for the first year, and it may fairly be predicted that before its close you will have become very indifferent to finery, and not likely in future to outstep the bounds of prudence in expense either of time or money bestowed upon it. I believe that a thorough love and conscientious adherence to duty, and a prevailing love for fine and costly dress, cannot co-exist, especially in a married woman.—Tlu Yoimg Wife. CHOOSE WISELY. Benevolence and prudence may make marriage happy; but what can be expected but disappointment and repentance from a choice made in the immaturity of youth, in the ardour of desire, without judgment, without foresight, without inquiry into conformity of opinions, similarity of manners, rectitude of judgment, or purity of sentiment! Such is the common process of marriage. A youth and maiden meeting by chance, or brought together by artifice, exchange glances, reciprocate civilities, go home and dream of one another; and having but little to divert attention or diversify thought, they find themselves uneasy when they are apart, and therefore conclude they shall be happy together. They marry, and discover what nothing but voluntary blindness before had concealed. They wear out life with altercations, and charge nature with cruelty. ‘ Deceive not thyself,’observes Fuller, ‘by over-expecting happiness in the marriage estate. Look not therein for contentment greater than God will give, or creature in this world can receive, namely, to be free from all inconveniences. Marriage is not, like the hill of Olympus, ivholly clear, without clouds; yea, expect both winds and storms sometimes, which, when blown away, the air is the clearer and the wholesomer for it Make account of certain cares and troubles which will attend thee. Remember the nightingales, which sing only some months in the spring, but commonly are silent when they have hatched their eggs, as if their mirth were turned into care for their young ones. Yet all the molestations of marriage are abundantly recompensed with other comforts which God bestoweth on them who make a wise choice of a wife.’—Dr. Johnson.