2';5 BILL OF FARE FOR OCTOBER. Divide the wild duck into pieces, and dredge them well with flour; put them into a stewpan with a table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, and the same of Harvey sauce; add 2 glasses of port wine, and a very little water or weak stock. Season to your taste with pepper, salt, and cayenne; and let it simmer for about an hour, taking care it does not boil. Arrange the pieces of duck on toast; boil and skim the sauce, and when as thick as cream, pour it over the whole, and serve very hot. 2. Stewed Sirloin of Veal.—Take part of a loin of veal—the chump end will do; put into a large, thick, well-tinned iron saucepan, or into a stewpan, about a couple of oz. of butter, and shake it over a moderate fire until it begins to brown; flour the veal well all over, lay it into the saucepan, and when it is of a fine, equal, light brown, pour gradually in veal broth, gravy, or boiling water to nearly half its depth; add a little salt, I or 2 sliced carrots, a small onion or more; when the flavour is much liked, add a bunch of parsley. Stew the veal very softly for an hour, or rather more, then turn it, and let it stew for nearly or quite another hour, or longer, should it not appear perfectly done. Dish the joint; skim all the fat from the gravy, and strain it over the meat, or keep the joint hot while it is rapidly reduced to a richer consistency. This is merely a plain family stew. 3. Raisin Pudding.—One lb. of raisins, i lb. of currants, a. ^ of a. lb. of sultanas, i lb. of suet, f of a lb. of bread-crumbs, i pint of milk, 10 eggs, f of a lb. of citron and orange peel mixed, i small nutmeg, i glass of brandy. Stone the raisins and divide them; wash and dry the currants and sultanas, and cut the peel into slices. Mix all these with the bread- emmbs, flour, and suet chopped very fine; add the grated nutmeg, and then stir in the eggs well beaten, the brandy, and the milk. When the ingredients are well blended, put the pudding into a mould, tie a floured doth over it, and boil it. When done, turn it out, and serve it with burning brandy over it, or arrowroot sauce. OCTOBER 10. Aswtion, unsupported by fact, is nugatory. Surmise and general abuse, in h.ouKuer elegant language, 07tght not to pass for proofs.'—Jvmvs. 1. Soles Fricasseed. 3. Greengage Fritters. 2. Boiled Turkey. 4. Vegetables. 1. Soles Fricasseed.—Fry 3 soles of a nice brown, and drain them well 10m fat. Take all the meat from the smallest fish; chop it fine, and