468 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. not to be taken out; but after the first process the fruit is to be pulped through a very coarse sieve with the juice, and managed as above. The stones are to be cracked, or some of them and the kernels boiled in the jam. All the juice may be left in and boiled to evaporate, but do not add the sugar until it has done so. The above looks well in shapes. Fruit Traiisparency.—Made in June, July, or August.—Press out the juice of a quart of red or white currants ; strain it through a fine sieve into a brass skillet; add ^ an oz. of isinglass, and | lb. of loaf sugar; boil and skim, about twenty minutes, till it is perfectly bright and rather thick; pour it into a pretty mould, and stir in a pint of fine fresh fruit; if white currant juice, either strawberries or white currants; if red currant juice be used, then let the whole fruit be either red currants, red cherries, or raspberries. Put it in a cool place, or on ice, till quite finn. Turn out carefully, and garnish the dish with Devonshire cream, or strain the juice of 2 lemons into | a pint of thick cream, and whip with a whisk to a creamy froth, and serve it round the dish. Preserved Gherkins.—July to end of August.—See that the gherkins intended for use be sound and free from external blemish; soak them m salt and water for two days, then scald them in fresh water, and let them remain in it till the next day. Drain them well, and let them boil for three minutes in a thin syrup; put them into a glazed vessel, and on the foUowing day boil them for five minutes in a strong syrup. For the three following days, drain off the syrup, make it boil, and pour it over the gherkins. Place brandied paper over the pots in which you have put your preserve. N.B. French beans can be treated in the same manner as above. To Preserve Gooseberries.—]yxa.Q or July.—Take fuU-grown gooseberries before they are ripe; pick them, and put them into wide-mouthed bottles; cork them gently with new soft corks, and put them m an oven from which the bread has been drawn ; let them stand till they have shrunk nearly a quarter, then take them out and beat the corks in tight; cut them off level with the bottle, and rosin them down close. Keep them in a dry place. ^ GrapeAugust to March.—Dissolve ^ a lb. of loaf sugar and ij oz. of isinglass in a pint of water; add to this f of a pmt o t e strained juice of ripe grapes, a few drops of and a ^ glassful of brandy. Ornament the top of a mould with fine grapes , strain the jelly till bright; pour it into the mould, and let it remam m a cold place till firmly set, or put it on ice for an hour. _ Lemon Creams.—2 dozen sweet almonds (in boihn^ Mater) chop them, and put them into a jug with i pint of cream; ^1 jug put in the rind and the strained juice of 2 lemons, 3 sher^, and pounded sugar to sweeten to the taste. Pour rapidly from