bill of fare for januar y. 53 yolks of eight eggs, with \ lb. of lump sugar in powder. Mix these together with lb. of butter melted; stir well over a slow fire till the mixture is tolerably thick; place puff paste at the bottom and round the sides of your dish, pour in the ingredients, and bake for half an hour. JANUARY 26. 'Almost any ornatnental talent is a good thing, when it is not the best thing a woman has.'—Hannah More. 1. Cowheel Soup. 2. Mutton Cutlets. 3. Potatoes. 4. Brussels Sprouts. 5. Suet Dumplings. I. Cowheel Soup.—Take 2 cowheels; split them; remove the oily fat and any little bits that are offensive; wash very clean, and set on to stew in 6 quarts of water, adding i Ib. of rice and 12 leeks ; flavour with thyme, chopped parsley, pepper, and salt. Let the whole stew gently for two hours (more will not hurt); skim it well A spoonful o vinegar (or better, a little lemon-juice) added when serving is a great improvement. ^ • f fat (which should be saved as suet for puddings) • flour, and a little pepper; rinse a thick iron saucepan with spring water aving _3 or 4 table-spoonfuls in it. If it can be done, Langl the cutlets in one flat layer, and place them over a very gentle fire -^whl they begin to stew, throw in a little salt, and simmer,f ithout ceasing softly as possible for nearly an hour and a half. They require dressing vTlids""^?t t^^der, nutritious, and invaluable for in- val ds. It must be gently stewed, or the meat will be unfit Tor table, and the gravy dried up. When half done, the cutlets must be turned; if there is not sufficient moisture, add 2 or 3 spoonfuls of cold servtng remaining fat before 5. SuefEumplings.-Vut a tea-spoonful of salt into 8 oz of fine flour and mix well with J dozen oz. of finely-chopped suet - beat im in a tea-cupful of milk, a couple of eggs, and stir these with' the othJ^J ^edients. This will make 8 small dumplings; they can be either separately m cloths covered with flour, or put in ‘naked ’ anH boiled for an hour with beef or mutton. ^