BILL OF FARE FOR OCTOBER. 2QI 2. Beef Olives,—A pound and a half of rump-steak, 3 yolks of eggs, a little beaten mace, pepper and salt, a tea-cupful of bread-crumbs, 2 oz. of marrow or suet, a sprig of parsley, the rind of ^ a lemon, i pint of brown gravy, a table-spoonful of ketchup, r of browning, a tea-spoonful of lemon vinegar, a piece of butter rolled in flour, 8 forcemeat-balls. Cut the steak into slices of about ^ an inch thick and 6 or 7 inches long; rub them over with the yolk of a beaten egg, and strew thickly over them some bread-crumbs, the marrow or suet chopped fine, then the parsley minced, the grated rind of a large lemon, a little beaten mace, and some pepper and salt, all mixed well together. Roll each olive round, fasten it with a small skewer, and brown them lightly before the fire in a Dutch oven. Then put them into a stewpan with the gravy, ketchup, browning, and lemon vinegar; thicken it with a piece of butter rolled in flour, and serve the olives in the gravy. Garnish with force- meat-balls. 3. Ciirra7it and Apple Dumplings.—Of each of the following materials take 6 oz.; grated bread, chopped apples, loaf sugar, currants, suet; to these add 6 eggs, 2 table-spoonfuls of candied orange, lemon, and citron peel mixed, \ a nutmeg grated, and a glass of brandy. Boil for two hours in a well-buttered mould. OCTOBER 11. Moral beauty is the basis of all true beauty.'—Victor Cousin. 1. Goose. 2. Mutton Cutlets. 3. Baked Apple Dumpling. 4. Vegetables. i. Goose.—TYiQ goose being plucked, drawn, singed, and trussed, » ould be stuffed as follows:—Cut up 4 onions in slices and put them m boiling water with 24 sage leaves; let them boil till the onions are done; strain and chop finely; return them to the stewpan or saucepan; add I oz. of butter, pepper and salt to taste, and 2 table-spoonfuls of bread-crumbs; let the whole simmer for a few minutes, and the stuffin'- IS prepared. Fill the body of the goose, and tie it closely at both ends to keep the stuffing in ; hang it down to a brisk fire, and keep it well basted. Serve with apple sauce. Note —Goose may be filled with mashed potatoes, flavoured with age and onions or not, according to taste. The stuffing can, if pre- erred, be rendered stronger by using raw onions, or milder by usinu chopping up an apple with them. Roasted chestnuts P ed and broken, can also be used for goose stuffing. Tomato sauce can be substituted for apple. tomato sauce