346 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIRE TO KNOW. DECEMBER 8. ‘ To preserve sobrietywiU reqttire the unreniitted exercise of prudence, vigilance, and severe circumspection.'—Rev. James Fordyce, D. D. ’ 1. Eels a la Tartars. I j. Snow Pancakes. 2. Hashed Mutton. | 4. Vegetables. 1. Eds d la Tartars.—Take a couple of middle-sized eels; skin and clean them; cut off the heads and the thinnest'part of the tail-ends; score or crimp the fish at equal distances along their length, as if you were going to joint an oxtail. Powder the slashes in the eels with parsley and chives minced very fine. Tie the eels together in such a way that between them they shall form a ring or circle. Put a lump of butter into a stewpan, with carrots and onions sliced, parsley, and bay leaf. After they have had a turn or two in the heated butter, add salt and peppercorns, and dilute with white wine and water. When this liquor is cooked enough, strain it, and then put youT circle of eel to boil in it. When half done, take it out and let it cook When cold, wet it with your sauce, and dust it with bread-crumbs. Smear it again with beat-up egg seasoned with pepper and salt, and sprinkle more bread-crumbs over it; then broil it on a gridiron over a gentle fire. When done, put it on a hot dish, and pour tartar sauce into the middle of the circle. 2. Hashed Mutton.—Cut the least done parts of cold roast mutton into small neat slices, trimming off any skin or brown outside, especially if the latter is burnt in the least. Dust these slices on each side with flour, pepper, and salt. Fry a few sliced onions; when brown, put them in your stewpan with a little broih. Crush in a tea-cup half a pickled walnut with a dessert-spoonful of Harvey’s sauce and half a glass of red wine; stew these together till the onions are reduced quite to a pulp, then withdraw the stewpan from the fire, put in the sliced mutton, and let it simmer very getitly for half an hour. If it boil up, the mutton will be hard. By omitting the pickled walnut, putting in a table-spoonful of currant jelly instead, and adding a bouquet of thyme, basil, and marjoram, and seasoning a little more highly with spice and wine, you will have very good Mock Hashed Venison. 3. Snow Pancakes.—Beat up lb. of flour in milk till you have a stiff batter; add a spoonful of salt, quarter of a nutmeg grated. Divide the batter into as many pancakes as you require, and to each portion add 3 table-spoonfuls of pure snow. Fry in fresh butter, when they will be found as light as though eggs had been used.