BILL OF FARE FOR DECEMBER. 369 grated nutmeg. When that is done, and you have obtained a creamy, thick, brown sauce, throw into it the fowl’s comb and wattles, the kidneys, the liver cut in two, the gizzard cut into four, the brains, 2 table-spoonfuls of pickled mushrooms, and i dessert-spoonful of the vinegar from them; the mushrooms are indispensable. Keep your sauce hot in a bain-marie till wanted. Smear the upper surface of your opened and cold boiled fowl with oiled butter; broil it, presenting the under side first to the fire. When thoroughly hot through, turn it on the gri ’iron to brown the upper surface. When nicely done, lay it on your dish, remove the skewers, and pour over it the hot sauce with all its contents. 3. Omelet Soufflee.—S,\x eggs, 4 dessert-spoonfuls of sugar, peel of i large lemon, A lb. of fresh butter. Beat 6 eggs, the whites and yolks separately; put to the yolks 4 dessert-spoonfuls of white sugar powdered, and the peel of a large lemon chopped very fine j mix them thoroughly. Whisk the whites to a high froth, and add them to the yolks. Put lb. of butter into a pan over a brisk fire, and as soon as it is completely melted, pour in the mixture ; stir it that the butter may be well in- corporated with the eggs. When it is so, put it in a buttered dish, and set it oyer hot embers or ashes j strew powdered sugar over the top, and colour it with a salamander. This may be done in the oven. Serve quickly, or the omelet will fall and its appearance be spoiled. DECEMBER SO. ‘ The true way of softening one's troubles is to solace those of others. ’ Madame de Maintenon. 1. Shin of Beef Soup. 2. Roast Pigeons. 3. House-lamb Steaks. 4. Batter for Fritters. 5. Vegetables. I. Shin of Beef Soiif.—Into a large boiler of cold water put 8 or 9 lbs. of the hind legs of beef, cut into convenient-sized pieces, 6 large carrots, 10 onions, and 3 heads ot celery, all sliced, a bunch of sweet herbs, 2 whole anchovies, a little bit of ham, quite lean, from the bone (a small portion of ham-bone which is tolerably close cut will answer exceedingly well), and some pounded cloves and whole pepper All these are to simmer gently over a slow fire for at least twenty-four hours (six-and-thirty is better), and are then to be strained into a pan and left to cool till the next morning, when the fat may be cleared off. A few small carrots and button onions should be boiled separately in a por- ion of this liquor, and added with it when the soup is served When the beef IS about enough and not too much done, the nicest pieces of gnsde and tender meat should be picked out, cut into dice, and added to the soup before serving it. 2 A