534 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. the rainbow, it is not only lovely, because of its seven rich and radiant stripes, it is the memorial of a covenant between man and his Maker, telling us we were born for immortality, destined, unless we sepulchre our greatness, to the highest honour and noblest happiness. Hope proves man deathless it is the struggle of the soul breaking loose from what is perishable, and attesting her eternity; and when the eye of the mind is turned upon Christ, delivered for our offences and raised again for our justification, the unsubstantial and deceitful cha- racter is taken away from hope. Hope is one of the prime pieces of that armour of proof in which the believer is arrayed; for Paul tells us to take for an helmet the hope of salvation. It is not good that a man hope for wealth, since ‘ riches profit not in the day of wrath and it is not good that we hope for human honours, since the mean and the mighty go down to thf* same burial. But it is good that he hope for salvation. The meteor then gathers like a golden halo round his head; and as he presses forward in the battle-time, no weapon of the evil one can pierce through that helmet. It is good, then, that he hope; it is good, also, that he quietly wait. There is much promised in the Scrip- ture to the waiting upon God. Men wish an immediate answer to prayer, and think themselves forgotten unless the reply be instantaneous. It is a great mistake. The delay is often part, and a great part, of the answer. It exercises faith, and hope, and patience; and what better thing can be done for us than strengthening those ^aces, to whose growth shall be proportioned the splendours of immortality? It is good, then, that ye wait. ‘ They that wait upon the Lord shall renew their strength; they shall mount up with wings as eagles ; they shall run, and not be weary; and they shall walk, and not faint.’ Rev. Henry Melville. COMFORT IN HOPE. Nothing can compensate for the loss of hope, it entirely changes the character. ‘ How can I work ? how can I be happy,’ said a great but miserable thinker, ‘when I have lost all hope ?’ Hope is like th^e sun, which, as we journey towards it, casts the shadow of our burden behin us.—Samuel Smiles. CHARITY. Pure in her aim, and in her temper mild. Her wisdom seems the weakness of a child ; She makes excuses where she might condemn , Reviled by those that hate her, prays for them.