357 BILL OF FARE FOR DECEMBER. 3. Ratafia Cream.—Six bay leaves, i quart of new milk, a little essence of ratafia, yolks of 4 eggs, 4 spoonfuls of cream, sugar to taste. Put a quart of new milk into a stewpan with 6 bay leaves and a little ratafia. When it has boiled up, take out the leaves, beat up the yolks of 4 eggs with 4 spoonfuls of cream, and add sugar to your taste. Stir it into the ratafia cream to thicken it, and set it over the fire to get hot, without allowing it to boil. Keep stirring it all the time one way, or it may curdle, and then pour it into a glass dish to serve when cold. —0- DECEMBER 2 0. * What if the head, the eye, or ear reputed , I To serve, mere engines to the ruliitg mind} Just as absurd for any part to claim To be another in the generalframe; fust as absurd to mourn the task or pains The great directing Mind of all ordains.''—Pope. 1. Winter Pea Soup. 3. Coffee Cream. 2. Wild Ducks. 4. Vegetables. T. Winter Pea Soup.—Into 3 quarts of the liquor in which you have boiled pork, beef, or mutton, put a quart of split peas, 2 heads of celery, 2 onions in slices, and a table-spoonful of mixed sweet herbs; let it simmer slowly for three hours; skim it, force it through a sieve, and add spice to your taste before warming up for use. 2. Wild Ducks.—A brisk fire is necessary for roasting these birds; baste and dredge them well; allow twenty minutes for cooking, if you desire to have them full of gravy. Serve witli gravy sauce, to which a chopped shalot and the juice of a Seville orange have been added. 3. Coffee Cream.—One large cupful of made coffee, 4 oz. of sugar, | of a pint of milk, yolks of 8 eggs, 2 oz. of gelatine. DECEMBER 21. * PTappy the girl who sees a God employed In all the good and ill that chequers life.'—CowPER. 1. Julienne Soup. 4. Omelet Soufflee. 2. Gigot au Jus. 5. Vegetables. 3. Giblet Pie. t. Julienne Soup.—C.M.t into very fine, narrow strips, carrots, turnips, parsnips, cabbage, celery, leeks, potatoes, onions, each in equal quantity. Chop some lettuce, chervil, and sorrel. You may add (chopped small,