000 'j n BILL OF FARE FOR NOVEMBER. Do not draw them ; but after wiping them with dean soft doths, truss them with the head under the wing, and the bill laid dose along the breast; skin the head and neck ; let the feet press against the thighs ; pass a slight skewer through the thighs, catch the ends with twine, and tie it across to keep the legs straight. Dissolve some butter in a pan or ladle, and baste the birds with it; they should be well floured and suspended with the feet downwards to a bird-spit. Lay in the pan a thick round of bread freed from crust, butter it on both sides (after having toasted it a light brown), the trail to drop on; continue basting, and be particular that it drips on the toast or toasts, as a piece should be served with each woodcock, the trail being spread equally over the buttered toast. Let there be a brisk clear fire; if liked well done, they will take about twenty to twenty-five minutes (snipes, five minutes less). Lay the birds upon the toast, in a very hot dish; pour some gravy round the bread, with the remainder in a tureen. 2. Beefsteak and Kidney Puddhigs.—Take a lb. of nice tender beef, or rump-steak and beef kidney, cut them into pieces about a ^ of an inch thick, season them well with pepper and salt, and dredge a little flour over them. Lightly butter a round-bottomed pudding-basin; roll out the paste to about ^ an inch in thickness, and line the basin; then put in the beef and kidney, pour in 3 or 4 table-spoonfuls of water, cover a piece of paste over the top, press it firmly together with your thumb; then tie the pudding-basin in a floured cloth, and put it into a saucepan with about 4 quarts of water; keep it constantly boiling, adding more boiling water if required. 3. Stewed Cucumbers.—Select straightly grown cucumbers for this purpose; cut off the peel, and divide them into quarters longways; take away the seeds, and place the quarters on a sieve to drain; when per- fectly dry, cover them with flour. Melt \ a pound of fresh butter in the frying-pan; when it boils put in the vegetables, and fry them till they are of a light brown; lift the slices carefully with a tin slice, and set them on a sloping slab to drain off the fat. Have ready some rich beef gravy, in which onions have been used; put the cucumbers into a stew- pan covered with gravy, and let them simmer slowly till quite tender. Before serving, take out the cucumbers again, thicken the gravy with flour and butter, season it to your taste with salt and pepper, boil it, and pour it quite hot over the slices. 4. Raspberry Fuff.—Line a pie-dish with rich puff paste. Put a layer of raspberry or strawberry preserve at the bottom, then a layer of the finger spongecakes, then a layer of the following mixture :—Take a gill of milk, I oz. of butter, a spoonful of flour, and the peel of a lemon grated, and boil it until it thickens. When cold, add the yolk of a beaten egg, a little nutmeg, and sugar to your taste. Cover the edge of