BILL OF FA BE FOB AUGUST. just before using, as follows:—Line a flat dish with puff paste, and over the bottom put a layer of rice, on this a thin layer of raspberry or other preserve, continuing in this way until the dish is full. Bake it in a moderate oven from a half to three-quarters of an hour. It may be eaten hot or cold, and much improved if a rich custard be poured over the top. AUGUST 13. * Time wears all his locks before. Take thou hold upon his forehead: When he flees he turns no more. And behind his scalp is naked. Works adjourned have many stays, Lo7ig demurs breed new delays.'—SOUTHWELL, 1595, 1. Fried Soles. 4. Plum-pudding, 2. Saddle of Mutton. 5. Blancmange. 3. Vegetables. 1. Fried Soles.—Time, eight minutes. Two soles, i egg, a few bread-crumbs. Remove the skin from the dark side of the soles; clean them, and wipe them dry, and dredge a little flour over them; brush them over with the yolk of a well-beaten egg; dip them into bread-crumbs, and fry them of a light brown, in sufficient boiling fat for them to swim in. When done, lay them on a cloth to absorb the grease; dish them on a napkin neatly folded, and garnish with fried parsley. Plain melted butter or shrimp sauce may be sent to table with them. 2. Saddle of Mutton.—Time, a quarter of an hour to a pound. Take off the skin; cover the ^ fat with a sheet of well-greased paper, and roast it. Just before it is finished cooking, remove the paper, sprinkle the joint with salt, dredge it well over with flour, and drop warmed butter over it.^ Serve it with good gravy, or empty the contents of the dripping-pan into a basin, from which remove the fat; add a little warm water, and use this natural gravy. Red currant jelly as sauce. 4, Flum-fttdding. To lbs. of flour take 5 eggs well beaten, and as much milk as will make it a stiff batter; add salt, Jamaica pepper or nutmeg, and sugar to taste; i lb. of raisins, and ^ lb. of currants Boil four hours. S Blancmange.—Time, fifteen minutes. One oz. of isinglass or gelatine, 2 oz. of blanched and pounded almonds, i oz. of bitter ones • 12 pints of milk, I pint of cream, i lemon, a spoonful of rose-water, and 2 oz. of loaf sugar. Put into a delicately-clean stewpan the isinglass or gelatine, the