320 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. NOVEMBER 11. ‘ Aciion is no less necessary than thought to the instinctive tendencies of the human ' frame.’—Hazlitt. 1. Beefsteak Pudding. 3. Orange Tartlet. 2. Ragout of Rabiut. 4. Vegetables. 1. Beefsteak Pudding.—Put a pound, or a little more, of flour in a basin, and mix it thoroughly with some very finely chopped suet; put in a good heaped salt-spoonful of salt. Mix it to a paste with water; flour the pasteboard, the roller, and your hands. Take out the lump of paste, and roll it out about ^ an inch thick. Butter a round-bottomed pudding basin, line it with paste, turning a little over the edge. Cut up the steak into small pieces, with a little fat; flour them slightly; season highly with pepper and salt, then lay them in the basin; pour over them a gill of water. Roll out the rest of the paste, cover it over the top of the basin, pressing it down with the thumb. Tie the basin in a floured pudding cloth, and put it into a saucepan in a gallon of boiling water; keep it continually boiling for nearly two hours, occasionally adding a little more water. Take it up, untie the cloth, turn the pudding over on the dish, and take the basin carefully from it. Serve. 2. Ragout of Rabbit.—Wash and clean a good Ostend rabbit; boil the liver and heart, which chop fine and mix with some good veal stuff- ing ; fill the rabbit, and sew it up. Put 2 lbs. of fat beef and the same weight of pickled pork into a saucepan with a quart of water and a good- sized onion sliced. Let them simmer slowly for an hour, then put in your rabbit, and boil all together for another hour. Skim off all the fat about ten minutes before serving, and thicken the gravy with flour and butter. Season with pepper and salt, and add a bunch of parsley boiled soft and green, and finely chopped. Lay the rabbit and the meat in a hot dish, and pour the sauce over. 3. Orange Tartlet.—Take out the pulp from 2 Seville oranges, boil the peels until quite tender, and then beat them to a paste with Bvice their weight in pounded loaf sugar, then add the pulp and the juice of the oranges with a piece of butter the size of a walnut; beat all these ingredients together, line some patty-pans with rich puff paste, lay the oran2;e mixture in them, and bake them. O