102 THINGS A LADY WOULD LUCE TO KNOW. cover them with cold water; as soon as the water boils take away the scum, and then add a couple of heads of celery, 2 small turnips, and 2 onions, all chopped up. You may now season the liquor with salt to your taste. Let it stew over a slow fire for three hours; take out the meat, place it on a dish, and then pour the broth into an earthen vessel, where it should remain all night, to enable you to take away the fat Next day, warm up the meat and soup, and serve it to table, either with or without the bouilli and vegetables, as your fancy dictates 2. Beef cL la Mode.—Procure about 10 lbs. of buttock of beef, and cut it into bits of about I lb. each. Chop a couple of large onions very fine, and put them into a large stewpan, with ^ lb. of fresh butter, or fresh and well-clarified beef-dripping: whilst this is warming, cover the pieces of beef with flour ; put them into the pan, and stir them for ten minutes, adding a little more flour by slow degrees, and taking great care the meat does not burn. Pour in, a little at a time, a gallon of boiling water; then add a couple of drachms of ground allspice, one of black pepper, and a couple of bay leaves. Let all this stew on a slow fire, and very gently, for three hours and a quarter; ascertain with a fork if the meat be tender: if so, you may serve it in a tureen or deep dish. A well-dressed salad is the proper accompaniment of Boeuf d la Mode. 4. Apple Pie.—Make a puff paste crust; lay som.e round the sides of the dish ; pare and quarter the apples, and take out the cores; lay a row of apples thick at the bottom of the dish, with half the sugar you intend for the pie, a little minced lemon-peel, a little of the juice, and 2 or 3 cloves or a little cinnamon; then the rest of the apples and sugar; squeeze in a little more lemon-juice, and have ready the peels and cores of the apples boiled with some sugar in very little water, and strained; pour the liquor into the pie, and put on the upper crust. It should be baked very pale. Put no cup in the dish when you make apple pie. The flavour of a quince will greatly improve it. MARCH 23. ‘ Let all your things have their places ; let each fart ofyour business have its time.'—DK. Franklin. 1. Roast Lobster. I 3- Broccoli. 2. House Lamb Steaks. | 4- Batter Pudding. 1. Roast Lobster.—BoW your lobster until half done; take it out of the water, and as soon as it has drained, and the shell is dry, rub it all