258 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. chopped fine. Strain the gravy, and then put in the chopped giblets; serve hot, and you will find it very nice. 4, Victoria Pudding.-lNx\%& in a pint of new milk \ lb. of vanilla, cut into short lengths and bruised; or, if any other flavour be pre- ferred use bitter almonds, lemon, noyeau, etc. Simmer them gently tocrether for twenty minutes, and strain the milk through muslin to i pint of cream; put these again on the fire m a clean saucepan, with •’ oz. of fine sugar, and pour them, when they boil, to the beaten yolks of 8 very fresh eggs. Stir the mixture often until it is nearly or quite cold and boil it as gently as possible for an hour in a well-buttered mould or basin that will just hold it. Let it stand five minutes before it is turned out; dish it carefully; strew and garnish thickly with branches of preserved barberries, or serve with a rich syrup of fresh fruit, or with clear fruit jelly melted. —0— SEPTEMBER 4. ‘ Ev'n in the happiest choice, when fav'ring Heaven Has equal love and easy fortune given. Think not the husband gained, that all is done. The prize of happiness must still be won: ^ And oft the 'careless find it to their cost. The lover in the husband may be lost; The graces might alone his heart allure They and the virtues meeting, must secure.’—Lo-Ry) Lyttleto. I. Mulligatawny. Salmi of Wild Duck. j. Irish Stew. 4. Pain de Pomme. I. Mul/igatawny.—CleRn and cut up a fowl or rabbit into joints as for curry. ' Put them into a stewpan with J lb. of butter and 2 onions cut in thin slices ; fry of a light brown over a brisk fire ; add a tarile-spoon- ful of curry powder, the same of flour, or, if the soup is required thick a Ihtle more, and stir the whole together; pour in gradually from 3 pints to 2 quarts of veal consomme, and let the whole simmer y S^of the stove until the fowl or rabbit is done. Skim off the grease, take out the members and trim them neatly; pass the sauce throug a ste o taLy; return the best pieces to it; season wi* a little salt anTn^il hot for serving. A dish of boiled rice should be alwajs P*".he will duch. pur on .he cover, nrahe