'PARTY' DINNER FOR FEBRUARY. 2 13 ’ 3S5 pale brown colour in 2 oz. of butter. Boil 5 pints of stock, put in the vegetables, and a salt-spoonful of salt, a salt-spoonful of loaf sugar, a grain of cayenne, and a grain of saffron. Boil gently for three-quarters of an hour, skimming frequently. Strain; put the soup into a clean stewpan, and boil fast (uncovered) for ten or fifteen minutes. Then set it aside to settle. Put a small wine-glassful of Madeira or Marsala into the tureen; pour in the soup, and serve. 3* Stewed Eels.—Skin and cut off the fins of an eel weighing 2 lbs. j put it on a gridiron over a bright, quick fire for six minutes to draw out the fat; well scrape it, and cut it into pieces 3 inches long j put it into a pie-dish with the strained juice of 2 lemons, a salt-spoonful of salt, a salt-spoonful of pepper, the ^ part of a nutmeg grated, a moderate- sized onion chopped fine, a ^ of a clove of garlic chopped, and a tea- spoonful of tarragon vinegar; well rub the eel with this seasoning, and let it remain for an hour. Dissolve 2 oz. of butter, dip each piece of eel in, and dredge it with baked flour. Fry to a nice brown colour over a quick fire (in 2 oz. of butter) for ten minutes. Put f of a pint of stock into a stewpan, with a tea-spoonful of anchovy sauce, a dessert- spoonful of soy, a grain of cayenne, and a table-spoonful of baked flour ; stir till it boils. Put in the eel, boil up quickly, skim carefully, then simmer gently for twenty five-minutes. Add ^ a gill of port wine, and serve. Note.—Button onions, button mushrooms, or fried sippets may be added. ^ 4. Fried Soles. Fold the soles in a clean cloth to dry them; brush them over with beaten egg, and dredge them with dried crumbs of bread • do this twice; then fry in boiling fat (sufficient to entirely cover them) fill of a pale brown colour. Put the frying-pan at a distance from the fire, so that the fat boils slowly; the colour will then be a guide as to the fish being done. From twelve to twenty minutes, according to the size of the soles, will be sufficient. Drain on paper before the fire • then serve on neatly folded foolscap paper, with the following melted butter in a tureen :— Butter for Knead 3 oz. of butter with a table-spoonful of baked flour, and sfir into \ a pint of boiling water; boil ten minutes. Add the strained juice of ^ a lemon and a tea-spoonful of tarragon vinegar. Serve at once. 5. Fricandeau of Veal with Spinach.—either the middle of the loin or the best end of a neck of veal, about 3 lbs.; cut the meat off he bones in one compact piece; trim off the skin and fat, and lard it thickly with fat bacon; rub the bottom of a stewpan 3 times across th a fresh piece of cut garlic; place in the veal, with the bones and trimmings round it; add a sliced onion, a sliced small carrot a