239 BILL OF BABE FOB AUGUST. and stir it one way until it thickens; then pour it into a glass dish, or into custard cups. You may put a knob of coloured jelly on the top of each custard cup if you please. AUGUST 17. ‘ Oh, what a world of beauty A loving heari mi^ht plan. If we but did our duty. And helped our brother man ! Then angel quests would brighten The threshold with their wings. And love divine enlighten The oldforgotten things'—SwAlN. 1. Filleted Soles. 3. Vegetables. 2. Mince of Mutton. 4. Rice Pudding. t. Filleted Soles.—Time, ten minutes. Two soles, i egg, and bread- crumbs. Take 2 soles, divide them from the backbone, and remove the head, fins, and tail. Sprinkle the inside with salt; roll them up from the tail ends upwards, and fasten them with very small skewers. If small or middling-sized soles, put half a fish in each roll. Dip them into the yolk of a well-beaten egg, and then into bread-crumbs; then into the egg a second time, and again sprinkle them with crumbs j fry them in hot lard, or in clarified butter. Instead of rolling the fish they may be cut into pieces, and arranged in the form of a pyramid in the centre of a dish, and garnished with parsley and slices of lemon, 2. Mince of Mutton.—QvX off 2 lbs. from a leg of mutton, and chop it up finely, freeing it first from fat, but adding a slice or two of bacon likewise minced; season it well with pepper and salt, and put it into a saucepan, with a tea-cupful of gravy and 6 oz. of butter. Cut up very small 3 young lettuces; add a quart of young peas, an onion chopped small. Stir all these ingredients over a gentle fire until quite hot, then place the saucepan, closely covered, at the side of the fire, and let it stew gently for at least three hours. Arrange it neatly in the centre of a hot dish, and place round it a wall of well-cooked rice. 4. Bice Budding.—Fut a small tea-cupful of rice in a saucepan of boiling water j let it boil for ten minutes, then pour the water off, and let the saucepan stand by the fire, uncovered, for a little time. Put a piece of butter about the size of a walnut in the rice, stirring with a fork Ull thoroughly mixed ; then add a breakfast-cupful of new milk, and let It simmer at the fire for half an hour, till the rice is soft and swelled. Beat 4 eggs, yolks and whites, with 2 table-spoonfuls of sugar; pour the