305 'BILL OF FARE FOR OCTOBER. veal broth, allowing room for cooking; edge the dish with puff paste, and cover with the same; bake for one hour; when nearly done, take it from the oven, wash over lightly with egg, and return to finish. Serve hot, with gravy in tureen. 4. Qticm Mab's Pudding.—Blanch and bruise about 6 bitter almonds, cut the peel of a lemon very thin, and put both into a clean stewpan with a pint of milk; stir it at the side of the fire until it is at the point of boiling, and the flavour of the lemon and almonds is well drawn out. Then add an oz. of isinglass, and a very little salt. When the isinglass is dissolved, strain the milk through muslin into another stewpan, and add the sugar broken and the cream j just allow it to boil, then stir quickly in the yolks of the eggs well beaten, and stir it constantly and carefully, to prevent its curdling, until it becomes of the thickness of a good custard; then pour it out, and again stir it until nearly cold; then mix with it the dried cherries, and the citron cut into shreds. Rub a drop of oil over a mould, pour in the mixture, and set it in a cold place, or on ice, for some time before it is turned out. ‘ What need to forestall the date of grief a/id run to meet what we would most avoid ?' I. Savoury Omelet.—Cold fowl, veal, or veal kidney, are the best ingredients for this excellent dish. Whichever you select must be chopped very fine, with an equal quantity of the lean of ham; add i shalot, a little parsley, and pepper and salt. Mix the yolks of 3 eggs and 2 tea-spoonfuls of flour in a tea-cupful of milk. Beat up the whites of egg separately; see that the frying-pan be quite hot, and the lard boihng, before you put in the meat and yolks, well mixed together : as soon as you begin to fry, add the whites, and mix them well with the other ingredients. Ten minutes over a slow fire will be sufficient. Brown with a salamander before you send it to table. _ 2. Bubble and Squeak.—CvX cold boiled beef in slices about J of an inch thick. Fry them till heated through, and of a light brown; keep them hot before the fire. Have ready chopped some cold boiled cabbage; fry this in the pan, stirring it well about, and season it with pepper and a very little salt. Put the cabbage into a dish, and lav the meat around it. ^ 4. Bread and Butter Pudding.—V\x\. into a deep dish that will’hold a quart very thin slices of bread and butter, only half filling it. Stir into OCTOBER 2 7. —Milton. 1. Savoury Omelet. 2. Bubble and Squeak. 3. Vegetables. 4. Bread and Butter Pudding. u