^PARTY' DINNER FOR JULY. 407 the meat up into 6 equal-sized balls; dredge them lightly with dry flour j dip them into beaten egg, then into dried crumbs; do this a second time, then fry in boiling lard or clarified dripping (i lb.) till of a pale yellow-brown colour (about eight minutes). Serve with a bunch of fried parsley in the centre. Lay the parsley in salt and water for an hour or more; drain, then dip it twice into the boiling fat after the rissoles are done j put it before tlie fire on a sieve for two minutes. Note.—A stewpan is better than a frying-pan for all things requiring to be boiled in fat, and where a proper pan is not possessed. 7. Roast Shoulder of Mutton.—Cut out the vein from the under part; allow sixteen minutes to the lb., as a shoulder is generally liked well done; hang it betore a good fire, and baste constantly. Half an hour before serving, dredge it with a little dried flour, sprinkle over ^ a salt-spoonful of salt, and continue to baste; pour off all the fat; add a tea-cupful of boiling water to the gravy that has dripped from the mutton; pour it on the dish, and serve very hot. Sauce: — Boil 4 onions in plenty of water, with a tea-spoonful of salt in it, for half an hour : press out the water, chop the onions quite fine, boil them small; add J an oz. of butter. Serve in a tureen. 8. Lenjeret.—Leverets may be stuffed or not, either is equally correct If stuffed, prepare the following :—Chop 2 oz. of veal suet and enough parsley to fill a tea-spoon; mix it with an oz. of fine crumbs of bread, the tenth part of a nutmeg grated, a salt-spoonful of salt, a ^ of a salt-spoonful of white pepper, the peel of a of a lemon grated, a dessert-spoonful of rum, and i firesh egg; beat well, and put it into the body of the leveret; sew it up. Spread a sheet of paper thickly with butter (a lb.), secure it round the leveret, and roast before a very brisk fire for three-quarters of an hour; baste frequently with fresh lard (a ^ lb.); ten minutes before serving, remove,the paper, dredge lightly with baked flour, and baste with fresh butter. Serve very hot, with the following gravy:—Boil | of a pint of stock for ten minutes; stir in an oz. of butter, kneaded with a table-spoonful of baked flour; boil fast ten minutes more; add a wine-glassful of port wine; serve a little in the dish and the rest in a tureen; send currant jelly to table also. 9. Pudding for a Prince.—Blanch 6 bitter and 2 oz. of sweet almonds; boil them twenty minutes in the third of a pint of new milk, then pound them to a paste; when the milk is nearly cold, add 4 well- beaten fresh eggs, ^ a gill of thick cream, and 2 table-spoonfuls of brandy; rub 6 oz. of stale sponge-cake to crumbs. Mix these ingre- dients well, and beat for ten minutes ; stir in 2 oz. of sifted loaf sugar. Batter a mould; stick it round in Vandykes with dried cherries ; pour in the mixture, tie it over with writing paper spread with butter, and steam over fast-boiling water for an hour and three-quarters. Turn out