486 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. Perfume for the Drawers and Linen.—Half a lb. of lavender flowers, free from stalk; dried thyme and mint, of each an oz,; ground cloves and carraways, of each a ^ of an oz.; common salt dried, i oz. To be well mixed together and put into cambric or silk bags. A Perfume, also a Preventive against Moths.—Let the following ingre- dients be ground together to powder and put in bags among your clothes : i oz. of tonquin beans ; i oz. of carraway seeds; i oz. of cloves, mace, nutmeg, cinnamon; and add as much Florentine orris root as will equal the other ingredients put together. Perfume of Roses.—Take the petals of the common rose {centifolice) ■, place them, without pressing them, in a bottle ; pour some good spirits of wine upon them; close the bottle, and let it stand until it is required for use. This will keep for years, and yield a perfume little inferior to otto of roses; a few drops will suffice to impregnate the atmosphere of a room with a delicious odour. Common vinegar is greatly improved by a very small quantity being added to it. To Ret7iove Freckles.—Dissolve i oz. of Venice soap in an oz. of lemon-juice, and add z.\ of an oz. each of oil of bitter almonds and deliquated oil ot tartar. Place this mixture in the sun till it is of the consistency of ointment; then add 3 drops of the oil of rhodium, and keep it for use. Apply it to the hands and face in the following manner :—^Wash the parts at night with elder-flower water, or Rowland’s kalydor, then anoint with the ointment. In the morning, cleanse the skin from its oily adhesion by washing it copiously in rose-water. For Cleaning Silks.—Four oz. of honey ; 6 oz. of soft soap; i pint of whisky or gin. To be well mixed together, and rubbed on the silk with a soft brush on both sides; afterwards to be rinsed through a tub of soft water, and then through hard water. Dry it on a horse, and iron it with a tolerably hot iron. To Cleafi Flowered Silks and White Satin.—Mix sifted stale bread- crumbs with powder blue, and rub it thoroughly all over the article; then shake it well, and dust it with clean soft cloths. Afterwards, where there are any gold or silver flowers, take a piece of crimson in- grain velvet, rub the flowers with it, which will restore them to their original lustre. When the colour has been taken from silk by acids, it may be re- stored by applying a little hartshorn, or sal-volatile, to the spot. It may be dropped upon any garment without doing harm. Powder for the Skin.—One oz. of pounded camphor, and i a lb. of the best starch finely pounded. While pounding, add 2 drachms of spirit of wine, 2 drachms of oxide of zinc, and 8 drops of otto of roses. Mix all well together. Another Preparation.—Mix some flower of sulphur in a little milk,