BILL OF FARE FOR DECEMBER. 367 them through a cullender with a spoon; throw them into the broth; boil up again, and pour into a tureen with a few crusts or dice of toasted bread, and a slight sprinkling of sugar at the bottom. 2. Roast Rabbits.—Make a forcemeat of bread-crumbs, minced beef suet, lemon-peel, grated nutmeg, pepper and salt, and a little lemon thyme, if sweet herbs are approved. Beat up 2 eggs, and mix the whole into ,a paste. Put this forcemeat inside the rabbit, sew it up, and skewer it into the proper form. Rub the outside of the rabbit over with butter; flour it a little; and stick on very thin slices of bacon by means of small skewers of iron wire, A French cook would lard the back of the rabbit with a larding needle. These slices of bacon will roast up, till they are become quite crisp and dry. The fat which oozes from them will keep the rabbit moist and juicy; still, it ought to be well basted while roasting. Make a gravy with a small piece of beef (or the livers of the rabbits, if they are not roasted inside), a whole onion, some whole peppercorns, a blade of mace, a clove or two, and a small crust of bread toasted very dry and brown, but not burnt. When the gravy is boiled enough, strain it, and then add a little ketchup and flour well braided together. Make the gravy just boil up (for a minute or two) before serving with the roast rabbit in a separate tureen by itself. Some add a glass of port wine to the gravy. 3. Stone Cream.—One pot of preserved apricots or plums, ^ an oz. of isinglass, i pint of cream, i lemon, 2 tea-spoonfuls of crushed white sugar (more or less, to taste). Take a glass dish and line it at the bottom about an inch thick with preserved apricots or plums; dissolve half an oz. of isinglass in a little water, strain it, add to it a pint of thick cream, the peel of the lemon grated, enough sugar to make it pleasant to your taste. Let it boil one minute, then put it into a jug that has a spout. When it is nearly cold, but not quite set, squeeze into it the juice of the lemon (or rather, squeeze the lemon in a cup and add to it the cream, lest a pip should fall into the jug). Pour it into the dish (from a jug with a spout) over the sweetmeat, and let it stand all night. Place on the top a few ratafias. Any very nice jam may be substituted for the apricot, but the latter b best of all.