THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 53° EXALTED PASSION OF PRAYER. The prayer of the truly Christian man is generally offered cp with the tenderest and most exalted passion; and a holy pleasure mingles itself in every part of his office j his petitions and praises, his confessions, deprecations, and confidences, are all of them expressions of warm and delightful passions. And how can we well conceive it otherwise? Must not those praises and magnificats be full of joy and transport, which flow from a full assurance of the divine favour, from a long ex- perience of His love, and from the glorious prospect of a blessed eternity? Can those deprecations and confidences want a heavenly calm and tranquillity of spirit, which rest upon the mediation of Jesus, the promises of an immutable God, and the pledge of His Spirit? Can those confessions want contrition, that have all the tenderness that holy zeal and the humblest reflections can inspire them^ with? which are poured forth by a soul enlightened, purified, strong in the faith, rooted and grounded in love; by a soul consequently that has the liveliest sense of the deformity and danger of sin, of the beauty and pleasure of holiness, of the infinite goodness of God, and of that love of Christ that passeth knowledge ? Can those petitions want desire and flame, which are offered up by a soul that hungers and thirsts after righteousness, that counts all things but dung and dross in comparison of Jesus, that pants after God, that longs to be dissolved and to be with Christ? ’Tis true, weight and dignity of matter, gravity and significancy of expression, are the character most conspicuous in public offices, in the best and most ancient prayers, and particularly in the Lord s prayer. We find in them few or no figures of speech, no vehemence of expres- sion. But it is true too, that the devotion of a soul disengaged, as it were from the body, retired from the world, collected within itself, raised by daily contemplation and accustomed'to converse with Heaven, flows naturally and easily. Those great ideas, which such ^ Prajer as that of our Lord’s composure present to the mind, inflame the desire, awaken all the passions of the holy man, without any labour of imagina- tion or artifice of words.—Dr. Richard Lucas. FAITH. Faith in God and His doings is true nobility. ’Tis a great and difficult lesson, doubtless, to see God in all things; we have a simple trust in Him, He never forgets us. And although