209 BILL OF FARE FOR JUL Y. butter; then put the cutlets in, and fry them a nice brown on both sides. Add two slices of lean bacon, a bunch of green onions, 10 or 12 young carrots, a pint of green peas, a few new potatoes, 2 blades of pounded mace, a bunch of savoury herbs, pepper and salt to taste. Pour in a pint of boiling water, and stew gently over a slow fire for about two hours. Skim off the fat when done, take out the herbs, and flavour the gravy with ketchup or tomato sauce. Boil the peas and potatoes separately, put them to the veal, and serve. 4. Windsor Fuddijig.—Melt ^ lb. of butter; add to it ^ lb. of the crumb of French roll or light tea-cake, the grated rind of a lemon, ^ lb. of chopped apples, ^ lb. of currants, lb. of jar raisins stoned and chopped, 5 eggs well beaten, and a little salt; mix well together, and boil in a basin or mould 3 hours. Education is not that which smothers a woman with accomplishments, hut that which tends to consolidate a firm and regular system of character—that which tends to form a friend, a companion, and a wife.'—Hannah More. 1. Holy Land Soup.—Pare and cut into pieces 6 lbs. of Jerusalem artichokes, three turnips, one onion, and a head of celery; put them into a stewpan with sufficient white stock to cover them, and let them boil gently for an hour until they are quite tender; then rub them through a sieve; if the puree be too thick, thin it with a little fresh milk; boil all together again; season it with a spoonful of sugar, pepper, salt, and cayenne to your taste. Send it up very hot, with some fried bread served separately, cut into very small dice. 2. Roasted Fillet of Veal.—QvX out the bone and truss the fillet for roasting; stuff it with veal stuffing under the udder fat; spit, paper, and roast It. When done, cut a round piece out of the middle. Keep the fillet hot, and mince what was taken out, with the addition of a couple of yolks of eggs and a little finely-chopped lemon-peel; pour It mto the hole where it was cut out; sprinkle bread-crumbs over • job™ salamander, and seive with bechamel under the 4- Queens Pudding.—Take 4- lb. of fresh butter, bent it to o — JULY 17. 1. Holy Land Soup. 2. Roasted Fillet of Veal. 3. Vegetables. 4. Queen’s Pudding.