428 THINGS A LADY WOULD LUCE TO ENOW with boiling water. The result, he says, will be in about a minute a delicious cup of tea, much superior to that drawn in the ordinary way. Tastes differ regarding the flavour of teas. A good mixture, in point of flavour, we know to be two-fifths black, two-fifths green, and one- fifth gunpowder; all being, of course, of superior quality. Presuming all ladies to be intimately acquainted with the mode of making tea, yet to some a few hints may be serviceable:— First, never make tea in any other than a highly-polished teapot; for it is a chemical fact, that metal retains the heat longer than earthen- ware ; and the better it is polished, the more completely will the liquid be kept hot, and the essence of the tea be extracted. Secondly, see that the water be really boiling. Tea retains its fine flavour better if kept in little tin canisters instead of a caddy. To impart a fine flavour to ordinary tea, add i drop of the otto of roses on a piece of soft paper to every lb. of tea, and keep the canister closely covered. With regard to coffee, the best kind is always the cheapest Bum it at home in small quantities, taking care in using a close roaster, never to fill it more than half. Turn the roaster slowly at first, more rapidly as the process advances, and keep up a lively fire. Burn it until of a light chestnut colour. Keep it in close canisters or bottles. Grind it as wanted. Boil it in a vessel only half full, to prevent boiling over, in the proportion of oz. to a pint of water. Put in a few hartshorn shavings, or isinglass, if you will; but if the coffee is taken oflf the fire whilst boiling, and set on again alternately, until nothing remains on the top but a clear bubble, and then some poured out to clear the pipe, and poured back again, it will be as fine as if cleared artificially. Long boiling does not make coffee stronger, but destroys its colour and renders it turbid. In making coffee, the broader the bottom and the smaller the top of the vessel, the better it will prove. Various methods have been tried of preparing this Arabian beverage, but it will be found, after all, that there is no surer way of having coffee clear and strong, than pursuing the plan here given :— Beat up an egg—two for a large pot—and mix it well with the coffee till you have formed it into a ball; fill the pot wth cold water, allowing room enough to put in the ingredients; let it simmer very gently for an hour, but do not think of stirring it on any account. Just before it is required, put the pot on the fire and warm it well; but, as you value the true aroma, take care that it does not boil. Pour it off gently, and you will have as pure and as strong an extract of the Indian berry as you can desire. Use white sugar candy, in powder, in preference to sugar; cream, if attainable; if not, boiled milk.