THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 170 fine, and rub the yolks through a sieve, and afterwards the coral from the inside. Arrange the salad nicely on a glass dish, and garnish with a few crayfish if handy. 3. Baked Chicken Pudding.—Ox\. up two young chickens, and season with pepper and salt, and a little mace and nutmeg. Put into a sauce- pan with two large spoonfuls of butter, and water enough to cover them. Stew gently j and, when about half cooked, take out and set them away to cool. Pour off the gravy, and reserve it to be served up separately. In the meantime make a batter, as if for a pudding, of i lb. of flour, stirred gradually into i quart of milk, 6 eggs well beaten, and added by degrees to the mixture, and a very little salt. Put a layer of chicken in the bottom of the pie-dish, and pour over it some of the batter; then another layer of chicken, and then some more batter, and so on, haying a cover of batter on the top. Bake till it is brown. Break an egg into the gravy which you have set away, give it a boil, and send it to table in a sauce-tureen to eat with the pudding. 4. Carrot Pudding.—To | lb. of carrot, when boiled and pulped through a sieve, mix i lb. Savoy biscuit, 4 yolks and 2 whites of eggs well beaten, 6 oz. of butter beaten to cream, a little nutmeg, and 2 oz. of sugar, the rind of a lemon boiled till tender and pounded, and the juice of two ; bake in puff paste. 5 Goosekerry Cream.—Boil gooseberries in milk till they are quite soft beat them up in a bowl, and force the pulp through a coarse sieve. Sweeten cream with sugar to your taste, then mix it with the pulp ; when quite cold, place it in glasses for use. JUNE 7. Good counsels observed are chains to grace.' Fuller. 1. Plain Soup. 2. Veal stewed with Peas, etc. ■?. Vegetables. 4. Castle Pudding. 5. Currant Paste. 6. Vegetables. I Pluin Put 2 lbs. of bones into a stewpan with i lb. ol calfs liver, and a small piece of ham or mutton. Add a little pepper and salt, two turnips, two caiTots, a burnt onion, the bay ku«s, thyme cloves, and rice; pour in a quart of water, and let it simmer tor half ^au hour - then add six pints of hot water, or the liquor m which mutton ha, been boiled, and let it stew gently for eight hours. Skim it treque^ and when done, strain it through a sieve, and serve, ^f a he^ celery cut into pieces and boiled with it improves the broth, and a few slips may be served with it.