520 TRINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. And the rich unison of mingled prayer, The melody of hearts in heavenly air, Thence duly should arise; Lifting th’ eternal hope, the adoring breath Of spirits not to be disjoin’d by death. Up to the starry skies ! —Llanam. PETTY EVILS. Remember that life is not entirely made up of great evils, or heavy trials, but that the perpetual recurrence of petty evils and small trials is the ordinary and appointed exercise of Christian graces. To bear with the feelings of those about us, with their infirmities, their bad judg- ments, their ill-breeding, their perverse tempers; to endure neglect where we feel we have deserved attention, and ingratitude where we expected thanks; to bear with the company of disagreeable people, whom Providence has placed in our way, and whom He has, perhaps, provided on purpose for the trial of our virtue,—these are the best exercise, and the better because not chosen by ourselves. To bear with vexations in business, with disappointments in our expectations, with interruptions in our retirement, with folly, intrusion, disturbance ; in short, with whatever opposes our will and contradicts our humour,— this habitual acquiescence appears to be the very essence of self-denial. These constant, inevitable, but inferior evils, properly improved, furnish a good moral discipline, and might well, in the days of ignorance, have superseded pilgrimage and penance.—Hannah More. SWEET MANNERS. There are a thousand engaging ways, which every person may put on without running the risk of being deemed either affected or foppish. The sweet smile, the quiet cordial bow, the earnest movement in addressing a friend, or more especially a stranger who may be recom- mended to us, the graceful attention which is so captivating when united with self-possession,—these will ensure us the good regards of all. There is a certain softness of manner which should be cultivated, and which, in either man or woman, adds a charm that is even more irresistible than beauty.—W. Jones, F.S.A. AMUSEMENT AND RECREATION. I never lose any time. I do not think that lost which is spent in amusement or recreation, some time every day; but always be in the