49= TIIIA'GS A LADY WOULD LUCE TO ENOW. mg; or mix flower of brimstone with honey in equal quantities. Take 3 tea-spoonfuls at night, 2 in the morning, and i afterwards morning and evening till cured. In their seasons, eat as much asparagus as you can, and also strawberries. Sciatica.—Boil nettles till soft; foment with the liquor; then apply the herb as a poultice. Scorhitic Gums.—Wash them daily with a decoction of the Peruvian bark, adding a little tincture of roses, with a solution of myrrh. A brokc7i Shin.—Put on a bit of white paper moistened with spittle; it will stay on till the place is well. Bloodshot Eye.—Apply linen rags dipt in cold water frequently. A bndse in the Eye.—Apply, as a plaster, conserve of roses. An excellent Eye-Water.—Boil very lightly i spoonful of white copperas and 3 spoonfuls of white salt in 3 pints of spring water. When cold, bottle it in large phials without straining. Take up the phial softly, and put a drop or two in the eye night and morning. Weak Eyes.—Wash the head daily with cold water. Dysejitery.—Feed on rice-milk, and sit a quarter of an hour in a shallow tub, having in it warm water three inches deep. Gout.—Steadily use the elixir of vitriol in proper doses. Gravel.—Eat largely of spinach when in season. Headache.—Get some one to rub your head for a quarter of an hour, or be electrified. ' Headache from Heat.—Apply to the forehead cloths dipt in cold water for an hour. Hea^'tburn.—Drink a pint of cold water. To cure Hicaip.—Three drops of oil of cinnamon on a lump of sugar. Hoarseness.—A tea-spoonful of conserve of roses every night. Lethargy.—Take a pint of decoction of water cresses morning and evening. The Measles.—Immediately consult a physician. In the interim, drink water gruel, or milk and water, or toast and water,—the more the better,—and keep out of all draughts. A Whitlow.—A poultice of chewed bread. Burns.—Lime water beaten up with sweet oil is an excellent oint- ment for burns; and medicated cotton laid over the burnt parts is admirable for its cooling properties. Cramp.—Cramp may be kept at a distance by tilting the bed, so that the feet and legs should be in a slightly depending position. The idea is the keeping more blood in the legs. Warts.—There is a very useful property belonging to the Ra7iunailus arveus, or common crow-foot, which I do not think is generally known.