BILL OF FARE FOR APRIL. »3i APRIL 26. ‘ If young ladies would use their accoinplishments, their talents, and dress, not for display, but as a means of usefulness, their brothers would be more disposed to stay at home, and much innocent a?nusement would take the place of idle dissipation.' Rev. Robert Anderson. r. Salmon. 2. Sauce to ditto. Roast Leg of Mutton. O' 4. Spinach. 5. Mashed Potatoes. 6. Baked Batter Pudding. I. Salmon, like cod-fish, is better boiled in pieces than whole. A head and shoulders, weighing 6 lbs., will take half an hour; a whole fish of 10 lbs. weight, one hour. Put the fish into boilin<r water, to which some salt and a little vinegar has been added ; then boil slowly. _ The fish eats much firmer and better thus dressed than when set on in cold or lukewarm water. Serve with lobster, anchovy or shrimp sauce, and cucumber salad. Plain butter should also be served as well as some of the liquor in which the fish has been boiled. ’ 2. Sauce to above —Yyxl into a nice tin saucepan a pint of port wine a ^11 of mountain, ^ pint of fine walnut ketchup, 12 anchovies and the iquor that belongs to them, a gill of walnut pickle, the rind and juice of a large lemon, 4 or 5 shalots, some cayenne to taste, 3 oz. scrlped horseradish, 3 blades of mace, and 2 tea-spoonfuls of made mustard • forVsl CorkV‘“ P" “ bottles’ tor use. Cork them very close, and seal the top. Z. Roast Legy Mutton.—if possible, four-years’-old meat froi ''' ^ defended f ^ hour per pound and s y bnsk fire. One of the most savoury sauces you can use'with roast mutton is made by putting two glasses of pon wine one of Reading sauce, and a tea-spoonful of garlic vinegar, into a small sauce pan and pouring the contents over the joint just before serving • this as It mixes with the gravy of the meat—for mutton should never be over-roasted—will tempt the weakest appetite. ^ 4- Sf>tnac/i —Tick and wash the spinach carefully; have a large tin hTsTnal n“ of boiling water and a’li.,le sal *« „ ble M■' u™’ ““ ■' *<= boil as quickly as pos- sible._ Boil It thoroughly, strain and press it very dry, chop it fine • th! r^Ttoti:: a shape, fnd se“e P""'- P'“s it into 6. Ba/teti Batter Pudding.—-To three heaned tnhu . r , a snrau salfspoonfu. of salq add^g’X.ryt^n'^d