96 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. ihem carefully, so as not to tear the flesh, which is extremely tender; cut the flesh from the bone, and divide each side in two pieces; dredge them with flour, dip them in egg and bread-crumbs, and fry them in hot lavd or dripping sufficient to cover them. Do not suffer the fat to scorch the fish. Brown both sides; and when done, place them for a few minutes on a drainer before the fire. Garnish with parsley. Send up oyster sauce, or plain melted butter, in a boat. _ 2. JV/iite Fricassee of Rabbits.—careful to take away all the interior of the rabbits usually left after casing, and cut off the heads ; wash them repeatedly in cold water, till the flesh is perfectly white. Put them into a saucepan of boiling water, and, as soon as it boils up again, take out the rabbits, and cut them into joints. Thicken a pint of milk with flour and butter; add a little mace, nutmeg, lemon-juice, salt, and white pepper; put this into a stewpan with the flesh, cover carefully down, and let it simmer for half an hour. The sauce should be as thick as cream, and as white as snow, if properly dressed. 4 Herefordshire Pudding. — Peel and core 3 or 4 good dressing apples; mince them fine; and to every i lb. of apple add the same quantity of bread-crumbs, and currants picked and 'y*ed, . Vr, and half a nutmeg grated. Beat up 4 eggs, and mix Ae whole toLther It may be either boiled in a buttered basin, or mould, or baSd b a dish'vith a paste round the rim. If boiled, it will take rather more than half an hour. Serve with sweet sauce. march 14. . /tor r»r4 mrli » d>,s .to hoi upon ..uom'.lor nost morning.'—IzAAK Walton. 1. Pea Soup. 2. Pigeon Pie and Mashed Potatoes. 3. Cabinet Pudding. T Pea Soup.—Liitr well washing i quart of split peas, soak them • o, ^ A iw '1 fVipm with a little carbonate of soda in ju_t for the night, and boil v tr. a mash. Then put them to sufficient water to allow them o rea ^ whole 3 or 4 quarts of beef broth, -f One r fsmrhir o^“\er=^^ “