67 BILL OF BARE FOR FEBRUARY. 5. Greengage Tart.—Select fruit not quite ripe, but perfectly sound ; fill a pie-dish with them; beat up ^ lb. of powdered sugar, in as much spring water as will dissolve it •, pour this over the fruit, cover with puff paste, and bake in a moderate oven. Lay on a coating of yolk of egg with a brush over your crust; put the tart back in the oven for a few minutes, and sprinkle powdered sugar over the top before serving. FEBRUARY 10. 'A desire of gam to support any idle expense, taints by degrees the purest minds; wealth is then the only object of desire, and poverty the only mark of disgrace. —Fenelon. r. Plaice. 2. The Remainder of the Bull’s Heart. 3. Mashed Potatoes. 4- Currant and Apple Pudding. 1. Plaice.—\n dressing all sorts of flat fish, take great care, if you boil them, to have them done enough, but do not let them break. Put plenty of salt in the water, also horseradish; let the fish be well drained, and cut off the fins when cleaning them. When to be fried let them be well dried in a cloth; egg and bread-crumb them, and fry fliem of a light brown; use plenty of fat; and when done, drain the nsh on a clean coarse cloth. 2. The Remainder of the Bull's Heart.-^Xxzt it, and hash it up in its own gravy; add to it a dessert-spoonful of currant jelly, and mind you do not let it boil. Forcemeat-balls make an appropriate garnish. 4- Currant and Apple Pudding.—Oi each of the following materials take 6 oz. : grated bread, chopped apples, loaf sugar, currants, suet • to these add 6 eggs, 2 table-spoonfuls of candied orange, lemon and ctron peel mixed, half a nutmeg grated, and a glass of teandy ’m for two hours in a well-buttered mould. ^ FEBRUARY 11. ‘ Live not above your condition, either from ostentation or to glory in your wealth from false shame or to conceal your poverty.' Fenelon. ’ 1. Shin of Beef Soup. 2. Stewed Oxcheek. 3- Potatoes. 4. Broccoli. 5. Bread and Butter Pudding. I. Shin of Beef Soup.—'Ydk.t a shin of beef ( It in several pieces, take the bone from the meat, tai 10 lbs.), break out the marrow.