57 BILL OF FARE FOR JANUAR K Arrange these alternately, one green and one brown, on the napkin round the fish. 3. Devonshire Squab Pie.—Cover the inside of your dish with a thin paste, and lay at the bottom mutton chops rolled in pepper and salt; then strew on a mixture of sliced onions and apples, then some more chops, alternately, till you have filled the dish; pour on some water, put on the cover, and let it bake for two hours. 5. Open Tarts.—Line your dishes with thin light paste, fill in with preserved fruits or jam, and lay strips of paste across in squares or diamonds. A short time will bake them. 6. Gravy.—Slice, flour, and fry a light brown, in 2 oz. of butter, I large carrot, 2 onions; then add 3 pints of boiling water, with a bunch of savoury herbs, salt and pepper to taste, and a wine-glassful of good beer. It is much improved with the addition of a little mushroom ketchup or other sauce. » JANUARY 31. 'Envy is blind, and has no other quality but that of detracting from virtue.’—LlW. 1. Plaice. 2. Boiled Pork. 3. Vegetables. 4. Hard Dumplings. 1. Plaice. Take veal or beef broth, and convert it into gravy by seasoning, thickening, and colouring; it should be rather thicker than you intend to serve. If veal stock is used, make it rather sharp with lemon, and use cayenne pepper, keeping the gravy white. If the stock is of beef, flavour with Worcestershire sauce, and make it of a rich brown with caramel. Put the gravy when made into a stewpan, and let it boil up. In the meanwhile, wash the plaice in salt and water, and boil it ti nearly done; then draw it up on the strainer, and cut it into con- venient pieces, letting it drain as much as possible; take out the roe bruise it and stir it into the gravy; then place the fish in, and let it simmer till perfectly cooked; dish with sippets of toasted bread. 2. Boiled Pork.—PoxY requires to be particularly well cooked, and should therefore be boiled on an average twenty minutes or more if the joint be very large. Place the joint in the boiler, with the skin side vipwards, and put a dish or plate at the bottom, to prevent it sticking lut it into cold water, if it be salted; but with fresh pork tollow the general directions for boiling. sak a little salt. Boil them with the pickled pork.