382 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. wooden spoon; add a salt-spoonful of salt, 2 oz. of butter, and 4 table- spoonfuls of good cream j beat till quite light and smooth. Lay the potatoes in the centre of a hot dish in the form of a cone; place the fowl neatly round, resting on the potatoes; pour over the sauce, and serve immediately. 9. Haunch of Mutton.—Rub it well with a coarse cloth, and dredge it over with dry flour; tie it in large sheets of white paper, thickly spread with sweet dripping; hang it before a good fire, for the first half hour near, then draw it to a distance, and roast slowly till done ; baste constantly. Twenty minutes before serving take off the paper, dredge the mutton slightly with baked flour, and baste it with 2 oz. of dissolved butter. Pour off the dripping; add a tea-cupful of boiling water and a salt-spoonful of salt to the gravy dripped from the meat; pour it into a hot well-dish; place the haunch on the dish, the broad side uppermost,and serve at once, with red currant jelly turned out on a glass dish or a plate. Note.—^Time for roasting: underdone, ten minutes to the lb.; with the gravy in, fourteen minutes ; well done, eighteen minutes. In frosty weather, two minutes to the lb. must be added in each case. 11. Madeira Pudding.—Beat 5 oz. of fresh butter to cream; add to it lb. of dry sifted flour, ^ lb. of loaf sugar in powder, 4 beaten eggs, and ^ lb. of citron cut into half-inch pieces; beat for ten minutes. When the ingredients are well mixed, butter a mould, stick the top with thin slices of citron (2 oz.) ; put in the pudding, tie it closely over, and boil in plenty of water, as fast as possible, for an hour and a half. Turn out carefully and serve, with sifted sugar over the top. 12. Pine-Apple Cream.—Pare off the rough outside of a small ripe pine-apple, then peel it sufficiently thick to take ofif all the eyes; put the peel into a saucepan with ^ pint of water, and boil till the flavour is extracted ; then strain, and let the liquor get cold. Cut the pine into half-inch square pieces, and strew over it 9 oz. of loaf sugar in powder, and 2 table-spoonfuls of brandy; let it saturate for bvo hours. Put the pine, sugar, etc., into the liquor, and boil fast for ten minutes, skimming constantly; add f oz. of isinglass; boil ten minutes more; pour it into a basin, and stir into it (with a whisk) a pint and a gill ot rich cream. Stir briskly till the mixture begins to thicken, then pour it into a mould, and place it on ice till firmly set. Stir for ten minutes after placing it on the ice, to prevent the fruit sinking. 13. Pu7tch Jelly.—Ten oz. of loaf sugar, 5 lemons, i Seville and 3 sweet oranges, a slice of pine apple, a wine-glassful of Madeira (or rich brown sherry), 3 wine-glassfuls of rum, half a wine-glassful of brand}, a table-spoonful of noyeau, if oz. of isinglass, a tea-spoonful of fine green tea, and a pint of water. Pour the water, boiling, over the tea, and let it infuse for twenty minutes, then strain through muslin ; rub the sugar