I/INTS FOR DRESSING AND THE TOILET. 483 this soaping, wash in clean water, as hot as the hand can bear. Shake until dry. Grease-spots from cotton or woollen materials of fast colours. Absorbent pastes, purified bullock’s-blood, and even common soap, are used, applied to the spot when dry. When the colours are not fast, use fuller's earth or pulverized potter’s clay, laid in a layer over the spot, and press it with a very hot iron. Grease from silks, moires, and plain or brocaded satins. Begin by pouring over the spot two drops of rectified spirits of wine; cover it over with a linen cloth, and press it with a hot iron, changing the linen instantly. The spot will look tarnished, for a portion of the grease still remains; this will be removed entirely by a little sulphuric ether dropped on the spot, and a very little rubbing. If neatly done, no perceptible mark or circle will remain; nor will the lustre of the richest silk be changed, the union of the two liquids operating with no injurious effects from rubbing. ■—0— HAIR, ETC. 'Soft hail-, on which light d^-ops a diadem.'—Massey. Bandoline, for beautifying the Hair.—Soak starch, or Irish moss (whichever you please), in rose-water until dissolved and smooth. If you wish it to be pink, colour it with a little pounded cochineal. To clean Hair Brushes and Combs.—Dissolve a piece of soda in some hot water, allowing a piece the size of a walnut to a quart of water. Put the water into a basin, and, after combing out the hair from the brushes, dip them, bristles downwards, into the water and out again, keeping the backs and handles as free from the water as possible. Repeat this until the bristles look clean; then rinse the brushes in a little cold water 3 shake them well, and wipe the handles and backs with a towel, but not the bristles, and set the brushes to dry in the sun, or near the fire; but take care not to put them too close to it. Wipino- the bristles of a brush makes them soft, as does also the use of soap. Combs.—If it can be avoided, never wash combs, as the water often makes the teeth split, and the tortoiseshell or horn of which they are made, rough. Small brushes, manufactured purposely for cleaning combs, may be purchased at a trifling cost: with this the comb should be well brushed, and afterwards wiped with a cloth or towel. Hair Lotion, to prevent the Hair frotn falling Eau-de-Coloone, 2 oz.; tincture of cantharides, 2 drachms; oil of lavender, or rosemary,’of either, 10 drops. This application must be used once or twice a day