BILL OF FARE FOR OCTOBER. 299 apples alternately, until the dish is full. Beat up 4 eggs; 2 of the whites may be left out. Pour to the eggs, stirring the while, i quart of boiling milk. Pour this over the pudding, reserving a little, into which dip a sufficient number of slices of bread and butter to cover the top, keeping the buttered side up. OCTOBER 2 0. ^ Anger manages everything badly.'—Stadius. 1. Carrot Soup. 3. Celts Pudding. 2. PIashed Mutton. 4. Vegetables. 1. Cairot Soup.—Make this soup the day before it is to be used. Put some beef-bones, with 4 quarts of the liquor in which beef or a leg of mutton has been boiled, with 2 large onions, i turnip, into a sauce- pan to simmer or stew for three hours; pepper and salt to taste. Scrape 6 large carrots, cut them thin, strain the soup on them, and stew till they will pulp through a coarse cloth or hair sieve; then boil the pulp with the soup till of the consistency of good cream. Do not pulp the yellow, but only the red part of the carrot; add cayenne. Use 2 wooden spoons to rub the carrots through. 2. Hashed Mutton.—Put a wine-glassful of vinegar into a stewpan, 2 cloves, a blade of mace, and a bay leaf; reduce to half, take out the spice and bay leaf; add ^ a pint of water or broth; cut the mutton to be hashed in thin, small slices, and season well with pepper and salt; shake a good spoonful of flour over, mix all together and put into the stewpan; let simmer gently ten minutes. Serve with slices of gherkin as garnish, adding a little mustard to the gravy, or, what is better, some piccalilly. 3. Ce/ts Pudding.—Melt a lb. of butter in a basin set in a pan of hot water; mix with it gradually the yolks of 8 and whites of 4 eggs well beaten; add fine sugar, grated lemon-peel, and mace to taste; bake in a shallow dish. OCTOBER 21. ‘ The guardian angel of life sometimes flies so high that we cannot see it; but he is always looking down upon us, and will soon hover nearer to us.'—Richter. 1. Plaice. 4. Anna’s Pudding. 2. A LA MODE Beef. 5. Vegetables. 3. Roast Larks. 1. Plaice.—Yox a large—especially if there be a roe. Sprinkle with salt, and keep twenty-four hours; then wash and wipe it dry; wet over with egg, and cover over with bread-crumbs; make some lard or fine