41s ^PARTY' DINNER FOR SEPTEMBER. sieve before the fire. Put a ^ of a lb. of crumbs of bread into a stew- pan, with I clove, 2 allspice, 3 shalots, and three-quarters of a pint of milk; boil, and stir for a quarter of an hour, then rub through a sieve. Put the sauce again into the saucepan ; add either 2 table-spoonfuls of thick cream or i oz. of fresh butter \ boil two minutes, then serve. Put a pint of stock into a saucepan with a tea-spoonful of soy, a table- spoonful of Harvey sauce, a table-spoonful of flour, half a salt-spoonful of salt, half a salt-spoonful of flour of mustard, and a grain of cayenne. Boil quickly (uncovered) till reduced one-third (about twenty minutes); add a table-spoonful of port wine; strain, and serve. 8. Diplomatic Pudding.—Put a ^ pint of cream, 4 oz. of loaf sugar, and the grated rind of a lemon into an enamelled saucepan, and place it over a gentle fire; when nearly boiling, stir in 6 oz. of crumbs of bread, 1 oz. of flour, 3 oz. of beef suet, and i oz. of beef-marrow chopped; stir over the fire for ten minutes, then turn it into a basin to get cold. Stone and mince 2 oz. of Muscatel raisins; chop 2 oz. of candied orange-peel; wash and rub dry 2 oz. of currants and i oz. of sultana raisins; beat 4 fresh eggs. Mix these ingredients together; add the sixth part of a nutmeg grated, a wine-glassful of rum, and a wine-glassful of orange wine; beat the mixture for a quarter of an hour, or longer. Butter a mould; stick it fancifully with Muscatel raisins; put in the pudding ; tie it closely over, and boil rapidly for three hours, or bake in a moderate oven for two hours. Sauce:—Dissolve 3 oz. of loaf sugar in the strained juice of 2 sweet oranges ; boil till it becomes a thick syrup, then add 3 table-spoonfuls of rum. 9. Nasty Puffs.—Put | of a pint of new milk into a saucepan, with the thin rind of half a lemon and an inch of cinnamon, and boil up; then stir in quickly 3 oz. of flour; when well mixed, add 3 oz. of butter and 3 table-spoonfuls of sugar; when nearly cold, add 3 well-beaten eggs. Take out the peel and cinnamon; beat for five minutes. Butter 6 small cups ; put a sixth part of the mixture into each, and bake in a quick oven for ten or twelve minutes. Turn out and serve, with any kind of preserve placed round the dish. 10. Maraschino Syrup. —Put 3 oz. of loaf sugar into a saucepan with 4 bitter almonds blanched and chopped, the thin rind of a quarter of a lemon, the strained juice of a sweet orange, and a wine-glassful of water; boil and skim till quite bright and thick, then strain; add a wine-glassful of Maraschino, and serve. 11. Devilled Biscuits, Grated.—Cheese biscuits are the best for devilling. Dip them twice into warm water, then dredge them with cayenne (for 6 biscuits use a salt-spoonful), and bake till quite crisp in a slow oven. Serve hot, either in a rack or piled on a napkin.