BILL OF FARE FOR AUGUST. 237 AUGUST 15. ‘ Is it for thee the lark ascends and sings ? foy tunes his voice, joy elevates his wings. Is it for thee the linnet pours his throat, Loves of his own, and rapture swells the note ? Know, Nature's children all divide her care: The fur that warnis a monarch, war?ned a bear. While man exclaims, “ See, all things for my use," “ See man for mine I ” replies a pamper'd goose. Andjust as short of reason he must fall. Who thinks all made for one, not one for all. ’—PoPE. 1. Pot-au-Feu. 3. Mashed Potatoes. 2. Stewed Steak, 4. Marmalade Pudding. 1, Pot-au-Feu.—Time, three hours. Three quarts of water, 4 lbs. of meat, 2 tea-spoontuls of salt, 3 small carrots, 3 middling-sized onions (one being stuck with 2 cloves), a head of celery, a bunch of thyme, a bay leaf and a little parsley tied together, 2 turnips, a burnt onion, or a little browning. Put the meat into a stock-pot full of water; set it over a slow fire, and let it gently boil, carefully taking off the scum that will rise to the top. Pour in a tea-cupful of cold water to help the scum to rise. When no more scum rises, it is time to put in the vegetables, which you should have ready washed and prepared. Cut the carrots in slices, stick the onions with cloves, cut the turnips each in 4 pieces. Put them into the pot, and let them boil gently for two hours. If the water boils away too much, add a little hot water in addition. A few bones improve the soup very much. It is not necessary to keep the pot very closely covered. It is better to raise the lid a little, it facilitates the operation. 2. Stewed^ Steak.—T\mt, forty minutes altogether. Half a pint of water, i onion, a spoonful of walnut ketchup, a little caper liquor, a piece of butter rolled in flour, and some pepper and salt. ^ Fry the steaks in butter a good brown j then put in a stewpan half a pint of water, i onion sliced, a table-spoonful of walnut ketchup, a little caper liquor, pepper and salt Cover the pan close, and let them stew slowly. Thicken the gravy with a piece of butter rolled in flour, and serve them on a hot dish. 4. Marmalade Pudding.—Tdke 3 oz. of fresh butter, clarify it, mix it with 3 oz. of pounded sugar, 3 table-spoonfuls of orange marmalade, 4 eggs, I table-spoonful of flour. Beat the mixture all together for ten minutes with a wooden spoon. Line a mould with sweet tart paste • pour the ingredients into the mould. Bake it in a moderate oven for