CONFECTIONERY, CARES, AND PRESERVES. 469 one jug to the other, till the mixture is well frothed; take out the lemon-rind, and pour it into jelly glasses. If wanted less rich, put v'range or raisins rinsed instead of the sherry, and omit the almonds. Lemon Mixture for Cheesecakes or Tarts.—Dissolve i lb. of loaf sugar in the strained juice of 3 lemons and 3 table-spoonfuls of brandy; stir in ^ a lb. of fresh butter till dissolved, but not oiled; then add the grated rind of the lemons, the yolks of 8 and the whites of 4 fresh eggs well beaten; stir rapidly over a gentle fire till of the consistency of honey. Put into a jar when cold; tie it over with thick writing paper, and keep it in a cool place. Lemon Mixture for Cheesecakes or Tablets.—To a. ^ of a. lb. of fresh butter put a lb. of loaf sugar, 6 eggs well beaten, leaving out 2 whites, the grated rind and juice of 3 lemons; put all into a nice saucepan, and simmer till the sugar dissolves, and it begins to thicken like good honey; put in gallipots. When cold, tie down with brandy papers. Medlar Jelly.—?\x\. the medlars (which must be quite ripe) into a pre- serving-pan with sufficient water to cover them, and simmer till in a pulp; then strain through a jelly bag. To every pint of liquor add I lb. of loaf sugar; boil fast, skimming frequently, for an hour. Pour the jelly into ornamental earthen moulds or glasses, and the next day tie them down. This jelly is served at dessert. Mincemeat. Mincemeat is much improved by being well mixed foi some days before use. Peel, core, and chop fine i lb. of sound apples ; wash and pick ii lbs. of currants; stone \ a lb. of raisins, and let both these be chopped small. Take away the skin and gristle from i lb. of cold roast beef, and carefully pick i lb. of beef suet; chop these well together. Cut into small bits f of a lb. of mixed candied orange, citron, and lemon peel; let all these be well stirred up in a large pan. Grind into powder a nutmeg, \ an oz. of ginger, and a of an oz. of cloves, the same quantity of allspice and coriander seeds; add ^ an oz of salt, and put these into the pan, mixing thoroughly. Grate the rinds of 3 lemons, and squeeze the juice over 1 a lb. of fine Lisbon sugar mixed with the lemon peel pour over this 2 gills of brandy and ^ a pint of sherry. Let these ingredients be stirred for twenty minutes • cover the pan with a slate; and, when about to use the mincemeat' take It from the bottom of the pan. ’ Normandy Pippins Stewed.—\ a lb. of Normandy pippins into a Stefan and the peel of half a lemon cut thin ; dissolve a i of a lb of loaf supr in a pint of spring water; pour this over the fruit; cover doip the pan close, and set it on a slow fire for two hours and a half. transparent Orange Marmalade.—March or April—Cut the Seville oranges into quarters ; take the pulp out and put it in a basin ; pick out the seeds and skins; let the outside soak in water, with a little Lit,