289 BILL OF FARE FOR OCTOBER. necks be picked and scalded, stew them in ^ pint of water; and when all the goodness is extracted, strain oif the liquor, put it in a stewpan with a pint of button mushrooms, a little pepper and salt, and put in the 14 pieces of fowl. Stew them till done, which will be in about half an hour, and thicken with a little arrowroot; before serving, put into your silver dish a table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup. The 2 fowls will be enough for 8 or 10 persons. Grouse and partridges are nicer this way than roasted; also a young turkey poult, and pigeons also when in season. 3. Cranberry Tart.—Wash a quart of berries in several waters, dry on a coarse cloth, and pick carefully. Mix in a basin with ^ lb. of finely-powdered white sugar, and squeeze the juice of 1 a lemon over the fruit. Put all into a pie-dish, with a light paste for the top, and bake for forty minutes. OCTOBER 8. ‘Stiffpeople lose some of their awkwardness under high ceilings.'—Emerson, 1. Roast Sirloin or Ribs 3. Vegetable Marrow. OF Beef. 4. Fritters. 2. Yorkshire Pudding. 2. Yorkshire Pudding.—Take an equal number of eggs and of heaped table-spoonfuls of flour, with a tea-spoonful of salt to six of these. Whisk the eggs well; strain and mix them gradually with the flour; then pour in nearly i pint of milk, or as‘ much as will make the batter the con- sistence of rather thin cream. The tin for the pudding should be placed for some time previously under the joint that is roasting (beef is best). Beat the batter lightly and briskly the instant before it is poured in the pan ; watch that it does not bum, and let the eggs have an equal share of the fire. Turn it, to brown the under side, when it is firm in every part, and well-coloured on the surface; this is best accomplished by first dividing it into quarters. 3- Vegetable Marrow.—boiling, never pierce the vegetable with a fork, or you render it watery directly: you may judge when it is suffi- aently dressed by the ease with which you can rub off the outside skin The best mode of cooking it is to stew it in a good, rich sauce ; it is also very palatable cut into quarters, when half grown, and fried either in batter or butter. vot f the crumb of a French roll into lengths as thick as your finger, in what shape you will. Soak in some cream, nutmee ugar, an egg, and pounded cinnamon. When well soaked, fry of a nice brown, and serve with butter and sweet wine sauce. T