THINGS A LADY WOULD LIIvE TO LCNOW. 202 JULY 8. ‘ If we would make Imte our household god, we had best secure him a comfortable roof.' —Sheridan, 1. Trimming Soup. 2. Stewed Rump-steaks. 3. Vegetables. 4. Bread Pudding. 1. Trimming Soup.—Cut the beef or mutton and the vegetables m pieces ; season them with a little pepper and salt, and put them into a jar with a pint of peas and the Patna rice. Pour in 4 quarts of water ; cover the jar very closely, and set it in the oven to bake. When done, strain it through a sieve, and serve it up very hot. 2. Stewed Rump-steaks.—CvX some steaks from a well-kept rump of beef. Put them into a stewpan, with a piece of butter and an onion cut small. Fry the steaks quickly of a nice brown, and take them up; thicken the butter with some flour, and stir it well over the fire to make a brown roux, which moisten with beef gravy or good consomme; add a bunch of sweet herbs, a blade or two of mace, 3 or 4 cloves, and about a dozen whole allspice. Put in the steaks, and let the whole stew gently until they are very tender ; then skim off the fat; stram Ae sauce, and season it with pepper and salt. Add a glass of port wane and a little mushroom or walnut ketchup ; lay the steaks in the middle of the dish, pour the sauce over quite hot, and serve. 4. Bread Pudding.—a pint of milk with ^ of butter and a little mace ; pour it on 2 tea-cakes or a French roll. When cold, bea it up well with 3 eggs, 2 spoonfuls of sugar, \ lb. f ^ of Lf a lemon grated, and a little salt. Bake or boil iL If baked. turn it out of the dish it is baked in. JULY 9. • / lad aatl,ar a tlaa,a„d a yaang lad, aajr, tg pi,a,l.r„lfan Hufmdamaf har man,«r,.'-^^,. FOEDVCE. D.D. 1. Eel Soup. 2, Roast Pigeons. 3. Boiled Bacon and Beans. 4. Fruit Pie. I Eel Soup-TzY^ 3 lbs. of eels; cut them into slices, and stew them ta Sminutes over a slow fire in 3 ca of butter; then pou over them a quarts of water, put in a crust of bread an omon cutjm slices, 3 blades of mace, 30 whole peppers, r cano, herbs and a little salt; cover the stewpar. closely, and ‘ ™ eels are tender, but not broken. Mia 3 dessert-spoonfuls ol flour with