BILL OF FARE FOR AUGUST. 227 2. Roast Ribs of Fork,—Score the skin, put the joint down to a bright fire to roast, rub a little flour over it. If the rind is kept on, roast it without a buttered paper over it; but if the skin and fat are removed, cover it with a buttered paper. Keep it frequently basted. About ten minutes before taking it up, strew over it some powdered sage; froth it with a little butter, and serve with gravy strained over it, and apple sauce in a tureen. 3. Cabbage.—Have 2 large saucepans, each half filled with water, allowing to each half-gallon of water a tea-spoonful of salt and a very small piece of soda. Let the water boil fast. Cut and clean the cabbage, removing the stalk. Put it into one of the saucepans, and let it boil for eight minutes. Pass it through a cullender, and put it in the other saucepan of fresh boiling water; let it boil there for ten or twelve minutes. Pass again through a cullender, and let it boil for the third time in fresh boiling water, which has been supplied from the boiler into the first saucepan, for ten or fifteen minutes, according to size. Toast a large slice of bread without crust, dip it in melted butter prepared with milk, and put it on a hot dish. Drain the cabbage through a cullender, carefully pressing out every drop of water. Lay the cabbage nicely on the toast, and cover it with melted butter. Serve it very hot. Cabbage dressed in this way is a great delicacy. 4. Napier Pudding.—Take any quantity of cup-cakes which are made with a spongecake mixture, and baked in buttered tea-cups, with a few cumants strewed over the butter. These, when previously prepared, are to be warmed in an oven, and when quite hot placed on the dish they are to be served on, covered with hot melted butter, a little lemon- juice, white wine, and sugar. » —0— august 4. yfzVj/;w« noise, seeks retreat, and delights to DYCEfai^"” ^ veneration.'-^^^. James For- 1. Tapioca Soup. 2. Veal Cutlets. 3. Roast Leveret, 4. Vegetables. 5. North Country Pudding. 6. Buttered Apples. I quait of stock; when it is at boiling-point add the tapioca; boil twenty minutes, and it is done. You can use sago and semolina in the same manner. ha\f Care should be taken that the meat be cut at least over witrif ltd lh‘‘ ^“'“”S-Pin; smear them FV theL Sell bltH T''" ‘’"'‘W'^dered bread-crumbs. •y n fresh butter for a quarter of an hour, turning them till both