BILL OF FARE FOR DECEMBER. 353 2. Sieived Brisket of Beef.—Put a piece of brisket of beef, say of 4 lbs. weight, into a saucepan with a good lump of dripping or butter; brown it well all over, then pour in as much water as will nearly cover the meat, and, closing the lid tight, stew it gently for three hours, taking care that the meat does not burn to the pot, which may be pre- vented by putting a small plate beneath it. Boil a carrot, 2 turnips, and a few very small onions in another saucepan, just before you intend to serve up the dinner; take a cupful of the liquor and mix in it 2 good table-spoonfuls of flour, some pepper and salt, and a little ketchup; turn this, with the onions and the carrot, and the turnips cut in small squares, into the pot with the meat, and shaking it well up, boil all together for a few minutes, when it will be ready. Should the beef be fat, the gravy will require skimming, which must be done before you add the thickening. 3. Ground Rice Cream.—Four table-spoonfuls of ground rice, yolks of 4 eggs, whites of 2, i pint of new milk, 2 oz. of loaf sugar. Mix 4 table-spoonfuls of ground rice very smooth with a spoonful or two of milk, add the yolks of 4 well-beaten eggs, and the whites of 2 ; sweeten it to taste, or add about 2 oz. of pounded sugar; boil a pint of milk, pour it over the rice and eggs, boil it three minutes, and put it into a mould. When turned out, serve it with either custard, preserves, or whipped cream over it. DECEMBER 16. ‘ Our firesides must be our sanchiaries, our refuses from misfortune, our choice retreat from all the world.’—Goldsmith. 1. Collared Eel. I 3. Apple Snow. 2. Boiled Beef. | 4, Vegetables. 1. ^ Collared Bone a large eel, but do not skin it; mix mace, allspice, pepper, salt, and a clove or two in the finest powder, and rub over the whole inside; roll it tight, and bind it with a coarse tape. Boil in salt and water till done, then add vinegar, and when cold keep the collar in pickle. Serve it either whole or in slices. Chopped sage, parsley, a little thyme, knotted marjoram, and savoury, mixed with the spices, greatly improve the taste. Eels, if small, should be curled round and fried, being first dipped into egg and bread-crumbs. 2. Boiled Beef—For private families, beef will be quite enough salted in from four days to a week. First rub it with pounded salt- petre, to give the scarlet tinge to the inside. Too much must not be used, for fear of turning the meat hard; half an oz. will do for a joint of from 7 to 8 lbs. Then lay the beef in your salting-pan, and cover it 2