BILL OF FARE FOR OCTOBER. 287 The mutton should be of good quality, but the excellence of the dish mainly depends on its being most gently stewed; for if allowed to boil quickly, all the gravy will be dried up, and the meat will be unfit for the table. The cutlets must be turned when they are half done; a couple of spoonfuls of hot water or gravy can be added to them if they do not yield sufficient gravy. 3. Fried Pars7iips.—Parsnips parboiled whole, then cut into pieces and fried in butter, are much more delicious, and easier of digestion, than when sent to table plain boiled. 4. Plu7)i Puddmg.—One pound of raisins, ^ a pound of suet, i pound of flour, 4 oz. of bread-crumbs, 2 table-spoonfuls of treacle, i pint of milk, nutmeg, and grated ginger. Chop the suet very fine, and mix it with the flour. Add the bread-crumbs, ginger, and nutmeg, and the raisins stoned, and mix it all well together with the milk and treacle. Put it into a basin, or floured cloth, and boil it. •—0— OCTOBER 6. ‘No decking sets forth a7tything so much as affectio7t.'—SiR P. SIDNEY. 1. Boiled Whiting. 3. Baked Codling Pudding. 2. Roast Widgeon. 4. Vegetables. 1. Boiled Whitmg.—Thoroughly cleanse the fish, and lay them in the fish-ketde, with sufficient water to cover them. Bring them slowly to a boil, and simmer for five or six minutes, or for a longer time should your fish be large. Dish them on a folded napkin, and garnish with bunches of double parsley. Serve with anchovy sauce, or plain melted butter. 2. Roast IVidgeoti.—Two birds are sufficient for a dish. Pluck and draw them carefully; cut off the heads close to the necks, leaving suffi- cient skin to turn over; do not cut off the feet; twist each leg at the knuckle, and rest the claws on each side of the breast. Roast them before a quick fire, but do not baste them for the first five minutes after they are put down; afterwards baste them plentifully with butter; a few minutes before serving dredge them lightly with flour. If liked well done, they will take about twenty minutes, but they should not be over- done. When browned and nicely frothed, send very hot and quickly to table, with a cut lemon, and the following orange gravy, made as follows: —Cut a small onion into slices, put it in a stewpan with a pint of white stock, 3 or 4 strips of orange or lemon peel, and a few leaves of basil, if at hand; simmer very gently for about fifteen minutes, or till the gravy IS nicely flavoured with the peel. Strain it off, and add the juice of a Seville orange or lemon, i glass of port wine, salt and pepper to taste;