456 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. bunches. Put all these into the pickle raw, and at the end of the season, when as many vegetables have been added as could be pro- cured, store it away in jars, and tie over with bladder. As none of the ingredients are boiled, this pickle will not be fit to eat for twelve months. Keep a wooden spoon tied to the jar, and stir its contents every morning while the pickle is being made. The proportions used to each gallon of vinegar are a ^ of a lb. of mustard, a of a lb. of bruised ginger, a i of a lb. of salt, 2 oz. of mustard-seed, oz. of turmeric, i oz. of ground black pepper, ^ of an oz. of cayenne; cauli- flowers, onions, celery, sliced cucumbers, gherkins, French beans, nastur- tiums, capsicums. Pickled Onions.—(Middle of July to end of August.)—In the month of September choose the small, white, round onions; take off the brown, skin; have a very nice tin stewpan of boiling water ready; throw in as many onions as will cover the top. As soon as they look clear on the outside, take them up as quick as possible with a slice, and lay them on a clean cloth; cover them close with another, and scald some more, and so on. Let them lie to be cold, then put them in a jar, or glass, or wide-mouthed bottles, and pour over them the best white wine vinegar, just hot, but not boiling. When cold, cover them. Should the outer skin shrivel, peel it off". They must look quite clear. The Reading onion is the best kind. Spanish Onions to Pickle.—(September to February.)—Put a layer of onions cut in thin slices in the bottom of a jar, then sprinkle with salt and cayenne; continue this till the jar is full, then pour in vinegar sufficient to cover the whole. In a month the pickle will be fit for use. Tie it tight down with a leather or bladder. A Pickle that can be used the same day it is made.—(August and Sep- tember.)—Slice sufficient onions of a medium size; sauce apples and cucumbers, an equal quantity of each, sufficient to fill a pint stone jar. Be particular to cut them in v-ery thin slices, then put them in alternate layers, with 3 tea-spoonfuls of cayenne and tea-spoonfuls of salt. Pour in soy and sherry, i wine-glassfal of each, and fill up with vinegar.