BILL OF FARE FOR SEPTEMBER. 277 it require thickening, add a little flour, beat up with the yolk of an egg, lay the onions on the dish, and pour the sauce quite hot over the dish. Garnish with slices of lemon. 2. Cold Roast Mutton.—It can be either eaten with a salad, with piquant sauce, but used cold ; or with pickles, walnuts, red cabbage, or mixed West India, according to the taste of the diner. 3. Beetroot Salad.—Boil a fine head of beetroot till tender. When cold, a few minutes before wanted, cut it in slices, and pour over the following sauce :—Mix a tea-spoonful of made mustard with 2 table- spoonfuls of salad oil \ when well mixed, add a table-spoonful of French vinegar, a little salt to taste; and last, mix with it 3 or 4 table-spoonfuls of thick cream. 5. Ground Rice.—Set ^ lb. of ground rice in i pint of milk on the fire till it thickens, but not till it boils, stirring constantly; put it in a basin with ^ lb. of fresh butter, stirring till the butter is melted; throw a thin cloth over, and let it stand till the next day; then add 3 eggs well beaten, with a little salt, cinnamon, and sugar to taste; add a spoonful of rose-water, and ^ lb. of currants, well cleaned and dried. Bake either in puff paste or without. SEPTEMBER 2 6. ‘ My (nun ! my own ! oh, breathes there one To whom that simple word's not dear ? Beats there a heart so drear and lone That holds not some loved object nearCharles Swain. 1. Mackerel. 2. Roast Tongue. 3. Vegetables. 4 Spongecake Pudding. 1. Mackerel. Cut the fish open sufficiently to empty the inside; remove the roes, and thoroughly wash them and the mackerel. Put the fish into a fish-kettle of cold water with a large table-spoonful of salt • bring them gradually to a boil, and simmer‘for about twenty minutes if the fish IS large; if small, fifteen minutes will be sufficient, or even less time ; but they must be taken carefully out when the eyes are starting Remove the scum as it rises; and when done, serve them on a napkin’ and send fennel sauce, plain melted butter, or gooseberry sauce to table With them. 2 Roast Tongtte.-K fresh ox-tongue, stuck with cloves, roasted, and sent to table with port wine sauce and currant jelly, is a pleasant varietv to the routine of ordinary dishes. 4. spongecake Pudding.-Butt^x a mould thickly, stick it all over with ried cherries, almonds, or raisins. Fill the mould three parts with