510 TITINGS A LADY WOULD LUCE TO LCNOW. ner of the market as to everything that is bought, and to understand how everything belonging to a family should be made fit for use. But you must also have a care that housekeeping in them turn not to avarice : show them particularly all the absurdities of this passion. Say to them, ‘ Take heed; avarice gains but a little, and dishonours a great deal j a reasonable person ought not to seek anything in a frugal and laborious life, but only to avoid the scandal and the injustice which attend a prodigal and a ruinous one.’ Tell them, moreover, it is often great gain to know how to lose when it is fit; and that it is good order, and not sordid sparing, which brings in the great profits. Fail not to represent the great mistakes of such women who are intent upon saving an inch oi candle while they suffer themselves to be cheated in a steward of the main part of their estate. Do for neatness as you do for housekeeping; suffer nothing nasty or displaced in your house; remember that nothing contributes more to comfort than to keep con- stantly everything in its place. This rule appears nothing, yet goes very far, if exactly kept. If you need anything, not a moment is lost in finding it; there is no trouble, or dispute, or confusion. Good order is certainly one of the greatest parts of neatness. Nothing is more pleasing to the eye than to see this exact disposition of things. To these advantages add that of taking away, by this habit, from servants, those of idleness or confusion. And it is more than a little thing to render their service quick and easy, and to take from ourselves the impatience we feel when anything cannot be found. Mothers should instruct their children, however young, in household matters. The disinterested affection of mothers often leads them to dispense with all assistance from their daughters in their domestic affairs, so long as they are in daily attendance at school, or, as the common phrase is, whilst they are ‘getting their education.’ Where the school-hours are diligently employed, and the tasks laborious, and much time is required to prepare lessons at home, that it is particularly important that all the leisure a girl has should be wisely disposed of in healthful exercise ; but far better would it be for her health that some of her time should be given to the stirring occupations of the household, than that she should be sitting over a frame of wcftsted or lacework, hurting her eyes, and wasting her time in making bead-bags, or some ornamental articles of dress, not worth a tithe of the pains bestowed upon them. THE FIRST YEAR OF MARRIED LIFE. The first year of a woman’s married life is not always most free from vexations and troubles. She carries into one family the prejudices and the habits of another, which sometimes prove so difterent, as to cause the