47° THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. all night; then boil them in a good quantity of spring water till quite tender ■, pare and cut them in very thin slices, and put them to the pulps (but before you put the rind to the pulp after you have sliced them, beat them in a mortar). To every lb. of fruit, lbs. of loaf sugar beaten fine; boil them together twenty minutes. If not quite clear, simmer it five dr six minutes longer. It must be stirred all the time very gently. When cold, put it into glasses. N.B.—To 30 oranges put the juice of 3 lemons when boiling the marmalade. Preserved Oranges.—February or March.—Peel 12 oranges, and take off as much of the white as possible. Make a syrup of lbs. of loaf sugar with a pint of water. Take the peel, with the white off, and boil it in water till tender; then boil it in the syrup. Cut it in slices first. Paste for Cheesecakes, Tarts, and Tartlets.—Rub a ^ of a lb. of fresh butter and a tea-spoonful of sifted loaf sugar into ^ a lb. of well-dried flour; moisten, with the yolk of an egg beaten, with a tea-cupful of cold water. Knead to a firm paste; roll out a quarter of an inch thick twice, and each time spread over 2 oz. of fresh butter; fold over, and let it stand two hours in a cool place. Roll out twice again, and each time dredge over a little dry flour; rub the tins slightly with butter, and line them with the paste the sixth of an inch thick. Trim round the edge; fill the centre with jam, or the lemon, etc., mixture; smooth it over with a knife; ornament with leaves tastefully arranged, or narrow strips of paste laid on in cross bars, and bake in a moderate oven from fifteen to eighteen minutes. Tarts, about half an hour. (This quan- tity will make 2 tarts or 12 tartlets.) Tartlets may be ornamented with a small crescent of paste in the centre. Stewed Pears.—September to January.—Take large winter pears ; halve or quarter them (according to the size), leaving the stem in, and to about 50 pears put nearly i quart of water, the juice and thin peel of 4 lemons. To every lb. of pears add f of a lb. of loaf sugar, a small tea-cupful of cloves tied in a muslin bag, with third of cochineal. Stew gently over a fire until you can easily pass a straw through them; then put a little brandy. Boil up once, and put in jars covered with brandy- papers. They will keep two or three years. Preserved Pine-Apple.—Cut oft the rind, and divide the pine into tolerably thick slices ; boil the rind in a pint of water, with a lb. of loaf sugar in powder, and the juice of a lemon, for twenty minutes. Strain this liquor, and boil the slices in it for a quarter of an hour. Next day, pour oft the syrup; boil it, taking care to remove the scum as it rises, and pour the liquor quite hot over the fruit. Tie down the jar with bladder, having brandied paper over the preserve.