93 BILL OF FARE FOR MARCH. MARCH 10. ‘ Tai^ ca7-e to be an economist in prosperity ; there is no fear of your being one in adversity. ’—ZiMMERMANN. 1. ^YINTER Pea Soup. | 3. Potatoes. 2. Veal Pie. | 4. Custard Pudding. 1. Winter Pea Soup.—Into 3 quarts of the liquor in which you have boiled pork, beef, or mutton, put a quart of split peas, 2 heads of celery, 2 onions in slices, and a table-spoonful of mixed sweet herbs; let it simmer slowly for three hours; skim it, force it through a sieve, and add spice to your taste before warming up for use. 2. Veal Pie.—Cut steaks from a neck or breast of veal; season them with pepper, salt, nutmeg, and a very little clove in powder. Slice 2 sweet-breads, and season them in the same manner. Lay a puff paste on the ledge of the dish; then put the meat, yolks of hard eggs, the sweet-breads, and some oysters, up to the top of the dish. Lay over the whole some very thin slices of ham, and fill the dish with water; cover, and when it is taken out of the oven, pour in at the top through a funnel a few spoonfuls of good veal gravy, and some cream to fill up; but first boil it up with a tea-spoonful of flour. Truffles, etc., if approved.' 4. Custard Puddiiig.—^t^t up 6 eggs, add a quart of new milk, a little lemon-peel shred fine, 5 or 6 bitter almonds blanched and grated or crushed, with sugar to your taste; mix all together, then have ready your dish covered with a good puff paste, into which pour the custard • grate over it half a nutmeg, and bake it, or put it into a basin without paste; tie a cloth over it, and boil it. If boiled, serve it with melted -0—• march 11. ‘ IVrong none by doing injuries, or omitting the benefits that are your duty.'- Dr. Franklin. 1. Stewed Cod. 2. Leg of Mutton Cutlets. 3. Mashed Potatoes. 4- Bread and Butter Pudding. 5. Arrowroot Blancmange. I. Stewed Cod.—ZMt it in slices an inch thick, lay them in a larc^e s vTefh^'"^'°“ salt, a bundle of eet herbs, an onion, -i a pint of wine, and ^ of a pint of water • cover close, and let it simmer softly for five or six minutes; then squeeze