68 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. lay it in the bottom of a clean saucepan, and put in the meat to b^o^vn; turn it about well, and take care that it does not burn. When brown all over, put in a pint of cold water and a lump of salt, shake it well up, and’let it boil for a quarter of an hour; then add 5 quarts of water, 2 ’or 3 onions, 2 turnips, 2 carrots, cut in dice, a head of celery and a few sweet herbs, a few allspice berries, and whole black pepper. Let it simmer slowly for five hours, then skim the fat from the top as closely as possible, after which take out a cupful of the soup; let it cool till you are able to mix up in it two table-spoonfuls of flour, and then add it gradually to the rest of the soup ; shake it all well together, and give it a boil up, when it will be ready for table. 2. Stewed Oxcheek.—T\v& fresher the better. Get your butcher to trim it nicely for you, taking out the eyes, etc. \ then boil in the soup- kettle three hours, trim off all the unsightly bits, and make it look like an oval lump of meat; then put it into a deep ste^vpan, cover it with its own liquor, and season to taste. In the course of an hour or so add 4 or 5 onions, and some celery and parsnips. Continue to stew till quite tender. When served up, put the vegetables round the dish, and the hot gravy poured over all. 5. Bread and Butter Budding.—Cut some thin slices of buttered French roll; have oz. currants well washed, picked, and dried, thickly strew currants over these; beat up the yolks of 3 and the whites of 2 eggs in rather more than half a pint of new milk, add 3 oz. of powdered sugar. Fill the bottom of the dish with a thin layer of currants, then put some of the bread and butter, then a layer of currants, and so on till your dish be filled; pour the milk and eg^ over the bread, grate enough nutmeg to cover the surface, and bake for forty minutes. FE B R U ARY 12. ‘ Inborn courage. The §en’rous child of Fortitude and Faith, Holds its firm empire in the constant jw/.’—Hannah Mors. 1. Soup made from the Remains OF THE OXCHEEK, WITH THE Addition of Vegetables. 2. Beefsteak Pie. 3. Potatoes. 4. German Puddings. 2 Biefsleak Invert a cupful of highly seasoned liquor in the cenire of the dish. Cut the steak into pieces about the sire of an helping: flour, pepper, and salt each p.ece; place them neatly m the dish, tlih a few pieces of fat here and there -a or 3 hard-botled e^ cut in slices, are good; then pour over the whole some hquor, and