BILL OF FARE FOR NO VEMBER. 317 powder, and 2 oz. of butter, with salt to taste, also the juice of half a lemon. Simmer for a quarter of an hour, or until the fish is cooked; thicken the gravy, and serve. 2. Venison Take a neck or shoulder of venison, remove the bones and skin, and cut it into small square pieces. Put them into a stewpan, Avith 3 shalots, pepper, salt, mace, and allspice. Add ^ pint of port wine, and sufficient veal broth, or stock, to cover it put it on a gentle fire, and let it stew until three parts done. Then take out the neatest pieces of venison for the pasty, and put them into a deep dish, in a cold place, with a little of the gravy poured over them. Pour the remainder of the gravy over the bones, etc., and boil it for a quarter of an hour. Cover the pasty with some raised pie crust; ornament the top in any way you please, and bake it in a slow oven. When done, have ready the gravy left from the bones, strain and skim it clean ; add a glass of port Avine, the juice of a small lemon, and a piece of butter rolled in flour. Pour it into the pasty, and serve. For the gravy.—A glass of port Avine, juice of a small lemon, a piece of butter and flour, some stock from the stewed venison. 3. Leche Crema.—Beat up 3 eggs, leaving out two of the whites, and add to them gradually pints of milk; then mix carefully 4 table- spoonfuls of fine wheat flour and 2 oz. of finely-powdered loaf sugar, Avith grated lemon-peel to give a flavour. Boil these ingredients over a slow fire, stirring constantly to prevent their burning, until the flour is quite dissolved. Prepare a shallow dish with lb. of ratafia cakes at the bottom, and when the crema is sufficiently boiled, pour it through a sieve upon the cakes. This delicious dish is ahvays served cold ; but just before sending it up, some finely-poAvdered cinnamon should be dusted thickly over it. NOVEMBER 8. * It behoves the high, for their own sake, to do things ■worthily.'—Ben Jonson. 1. Cod Sounds a la Tripe. 3. Worcester Pudding. 2. Hare Pie. 4. Vegetables. I. Cod Sounds d la Tripe.—Soak the sounds in lukewarm Avater till they are perfectly clean and white, then boil them in milk and water until quite tender. Have ready a small Spanish onion that has been boiled in tAvo waters, cut the onion into half a dozen parts, then Avarm it up with the sounds in cream, seasoned Avith three-fourths of a spoon- ful of salt, a fourth of pepper, and a small quantity of nutmeg. Serve Avith fresh mustard and a lemon.