233 BILL OF FARE FOR AVGUST. Well wash the leeks, take off part of the heads and the roots, scald them in boiling water for five or six minutes, and then cut them into small pieces. Put a fowl, trussed as for boiling, into a stewpan with the pieces of leek, a little pepper and salt, and nearly 5 quarts of stock. Let the whole simmer very slowly at the corner of the fire for three or four hours, keeping it well skimmed. When ready to serve, take out the fowl, cut it into neat pieces, place them in a tureen, and pour the leeks and the broth over them (the leeks being made into a pur'ee), as the soup should be very thick of leeks. This soup is greatly improved by warming it up a second time. 2. Stewed Neck of Mutton.—Time, two and a half to three hours. Four or 5 lbs. of neck of mutton, rather more than a pint of water, a little cayenne pepper and salt, two sprigs of parsley. 4. German Puddmg.—Mix lb. of flour with \ lb. of butter, and the same weight of loaf sugar; beat up 4 eggs in ^ pint of milk; stir all the materials well together, then divide into 4 parts. Bake in tea-cups, and serve with sweet sauce or white wine. —0- AUGUST 11. * Shun delays, they breed remorse; Take thy time while time is lent thee: Creeping snails have weakish force— Fly their fault, lest thou repent thee: Good is best when sootier wrought. Lingering labours come to nought.'—SoUTHWELL, 1595. T. Roast Pigeons. 3. Vegetables. 2. Fillet of Mutton. 4. Ginger Soufflee Pudding. 1. Roast Pigeons.—T\rs\^, twenty minutes to half an hour. Some pigeons, ^ lb. of butter, pepper and salt. Welt vfa.sh and thoroughly clean the pigeons ; wipe them diy; season Aem inside with pepper and salt, and put a good-sized piece of butter into the body of each bird. Roast them before a clear, bright fire, basting them well the whole of the time. Serve them with gravy and bread sauce. 2. Fillet of Mutton.—Time, two hours. Take off the chump end of a loin of mutton, and cover it with 2 sheets of buttered paper as for venison; roast it for two hours, but do not allow it to become the least brown. Have ready some French beans, boiled tender, and well drained from the water on a sieve. While the mutton is being glazed, warm them in the gravy, put them on a dish, and serve the meat on them. 4. Ginger Soufflee Pudding.—M.e\t 2 oz. of Iresh butter in a clean