iSi BILL OF FARE FOR JUNE. mostly m silver, so that it may be served in the dish in which it is {over it with water; let it boil very slowly ; add the onions, and simmer it slowly for two hours, skimming it well; then add the celery and the turnips cut in slices, or any shape you please; add as much salt as required, and let it simmer for an hour and a half, skimming it con- stantly ; then serve. If it is intended to serve the veal with it, take 2 pints of the broth; put it in a stewpan over a clear fire; add 2 spoon- fuls of flour, stirring the broth as you shake it in until it boils; then add a little pepper and cayenne, and a glass of port wine. Boil for ten minutes, and strain it over the veal in a hot dish. 2. Leg of Mutton Farced.—Raise the skin all round the leg; take out the lean part and chop it small, with an anchovy boned ; add a few sweet herbs, such as chopped parsley, marjoram, thyme, and a little onion, the rind of a lemon grated, nutmeg, pepper and salt, and a few bread-crumbs; make these into a forcemeat, with 3 eggs, and a large glass of port wine; fill up the skin with the forcemeat, leaving the bone and shank in its place, when it will appear like a whole leg. Lay it in a baking-pan or dish, with a pint of red wine under, and bake it in a moderate oven for two hours, basting it occasionally with the wine. When done, dish the leg, skim the fat from the gravy in the dish, add some brown sauce to it, mix, and mask the leg with it. 3. Bakewell Pudding.—The yolks of 3 eggs and the white of i to be well beaten with ^ lb. of butter, sugar to taste, and the almond flavour also to taste; these are to be mixed the night before the pudding is required. Any sort of jam or marmalade will do to lay over the puff paste, and the pudding is to be baked in a moderately-heated oven for about an hour. 4. Blanc Mange.—Boil 2 oz. of isinglass in pints of water half an hour; strain it to pints of cream; sweeten it, and add some peach-water, vanilla, or a few bitter almonds; let it boil once up, and put it into what forms you please. If not to 'be very stiff, put a little less isinglass. Observe to let the blanc mange settle before you turn it into the moulds, or the blacks will remain at the bottom of them, and be on the top of the blanc mange when turned out. Brandy may be added if liked. The moulds should be in cold water two hours before use. —0— JUNE 20. 'Give your tongue more holiday than your hands or eyes.'—Rabbi Ben 1. Sole au Gratin. 2. Loin of Mutton. 3- Asparagus Pudding. 4. Almond Pudding. 5. Vegetables. mostlffn ""“i The French have an oblong dish for the purpose,