iqS TIin\GS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. to make them square, and flatten them; spread each over with some forcemeat, or take the trimmings of the beef, with an equal quantity of beef suet and fat bacon, some parsley, green onions, or two shalots, mushrooms and basil; chop the whole very fine, and make them into a forcemeat with a little crumb of bread soaked in milk, and the yolks of eggs. Spread this over, roll them up tight, and bind them with pack- thread. Stew them in some second stock, with an onion stuck with three or four cloves, some sliced carrot and turnip, taking care the sauce is not too highly flavoured with the vegetables ; a glass of wine may also be added. When done, take them up, strain the liquor, skim off the fat, season \vith pepper and salt, reduce it a little, and pour over them on the dish; or the liquor may be thickened with a little brown rotix before it is poured over. 4. Victoria Pudding.—Slice some apples as for fritters; butter a deep mould well; then put a layer of French roll, cut very thin and dipped in clarified (melted) butter; then a layer of apples, with sugar and lemon-peel grated \ fill the mould in this way \ if the apples require- it, add some juice of lemon, and brandy if you choose; last of all, before you put it in the oven, cover the mould with slices of roll dipped in melted butter. ^0— JULY 4. ‘ Turn to the virtues! Formed to connect, to blend, to associate, and to co-operate; bearmg the same course, with kind7-ed energies and harmonious sympathy, e^h perfect in its ow)t lovely sphere, each moving in its wider or more contracted orbit, with^ different but concentrmg powers, guided by the same influence of reason, and endeavouring at the same blessed end—the happiness of the individual, the harmony of tiu species, and the glory of the Creator,^—Sheridan. 1. Brown Bread Soup. | 3- Vegetables. 2. Stewed Brisket of Beef. | 4- Orange Soufflee. 1. Brown Bread Soup.—ChoTp your meat very fine, and put a lb. of it into a stewpan with 2 oz. of butter, and pepper and salt to taste. Dredge over it an even table-spoonful of flour; then add a quart or more of boiling water, cover it close, and set it over a moderate foe for half an hour. Strain it through a loose cloth; toast some thin slices of bread delicately brown, cut them in small squares or diamonds, put them into a tureen, and pour the soup over them. Macaroni or yemi- celli boiled tender may be put to the soup ten or tivelve minutes before scrvin®*. 2. Slewed Briskel of Beef—Vizs^ a nice square piece of brisket; joint it well in the bone, and across where the gristle runs, to make it