199 DILL OF FARE FOR JULY. lie flat on the dish; tie it up with string, and put it into the stock-pot to stew gently, until the bones can be pulled out easily. Take it up, drain and serve with sauce poured over, to which may be added a few button onions, and a couple of gherkins cut small. 4. Orange Soufflee.—Put lb. of butter into a stewpan, and mix in | lb. of fine flour, without melting the butter. Have ready a quart of milk, lukewarm, and well mixed with the orange flavouring, or bitter orange- peel ; pour it upon the flour; stir over a sharp fire, and boil for five minutes. To this add quickly the beaten yolks of 10 eggs, with lb. of sifted sugar, and let it cool. One hour and a half before it is to be served, whip up the whites of the eggs until very firm; stir them into the mixture, and pour into the soufflde pan. This should be made of tin, and a band of buttered paper, four inches broad, should be tied round the top. When the mixture is poured into this case, it must be baked in a moderate oven for nearly an hour. The paper should then be removed, and the soufflde served immediately. JULY S. The way in which things are done often materially lessens or increases their value.'— Rev. Robert Anderson. 1. Fresh Fish Soup. 2. Cold Brisket of Beef. 3. Dressed Salad. 4. Mashed Potatoes. 5. Queen Anne’s Pudding. I. Fresh Fish Soup.—Take a lb. (each) of all the fish you have caught in your day s fishing, such as carp, dace, roach, perch, pike, and tench; wash them in salt and water; then put them in a stewpan with a tomato, 2 caiTots, I leek, 2 fried onions, and a bunch of sweet herbs; put as much water to them as will cover them, and let them stew till the whole is reduced to a pulp, which will be in about three-quarters of an hour. Strain off the liquor, and let it boil for another hour. Have ready 2 turnips and a head of celery, cut into small pieces and previously boiled; add them to the fish soup, with the Chili vinegar and soy, pepper and salt to taste. 3. Dressed Sa/ad.—Take small salad, lettuce, endive, celery, radishes and young onions; pick and wash them quite clean, cut them up in small pieces, put, them into a salad-bowl or deep dish, and pour over them the following dressing; Bruise the yolk of a cold hard-boiled ee<r hu f ^ ^ ^bout a tea-spoom of cold water and the same measure of salt; rub all together till it comes smooth like a thick paste, add a tea-spoonful of made mustard •