365 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 2. SniJ>e Pudding.—Allow a snipe for each person at table, and one or two more over and above that number. When plucked and singed, merely remove the eyes ; they must be left whole, without emptying, as for roasting. Take first-rate rump-steak (in quantity which you will easily calculate from the size of your pudding), with the small propor- tion of fat belonging to it; cut it into shapely pieces, an inch and a half or two inches square; dust them well on each side with ground white pepper, salt, and flour. Line the inside of a large pudding-dish or basin with pie-crust rolled thin; dust this with a little flour. In the pudding-basin so lined, pack your snipe and your steak, placing them at equal distances throughout the mass, seasoning rather highly with pepper and salt, and sprinkling amongst them (if not disapproved) as much cayenne pepper as will lie on the point of your penknife. If you have one or two brown or black-gilled mushrooms, clean and free from maggots, add them, after removing the stalks and peeling off the upper skin. If not, replace them with one or two dessert-spoonfuls of mush- room ketchup ; with this sauce, however, you had better be sparing, as it is apt to be very salt. Cover your pudding with thick crust; tie the cloth (dusted with flour) closely over it; set it on the fire to cook in a large boiler or copper of boiling water, and let it boil galloping for three or four hours, or even longer. The truth is, that you c.an hardly cook it too much in any reasonable time. Let it boil away, therefore, until the guests are seated at table waiting for it. As soon as it is fished out of the boiler, and set upright on a plate, take off the cloth instantly. Transfer the pudding to the dish (standing) on which it is to be sent to table, and serve it in the basin in which it was boiled. 3. Omelet with Sweetmeats.—Nine eggs, 5 table-spoonfuls of white sugar, a tea-spoonful of lemon extract or peach water, a tea-cup of butter, and preserved apricot, strawberry, or any other jam. DECEMBER 2 8. ‘ ’ Tis virtue makes the bliss where'er we dwell. Coi.LlNS. 1. Chestnut Soup. 1 3- Stone Cream. 2. Roast Rabbits. 1 4- Vegetables. I. Chestnut Have ready some good broth or consomme; that of game or fowl is best. •.•11 Peel the brown skin from a quantity of raw chestnuts; boil them a minute or two in water, to make the under skin come away easily. Pound them in a mortar; boil them in water till tender enough to crush