HINTS FOR DEPORTMENT, ETC. 5^9 contingencies. But where the suiaport of the family depends on the uncertain results of trade, or on the precarious tenure of a quarterly salary, liable to be interrupted or cut off by the illness or death of the employed; or by changes in the circumstances, projects, or even caprices of the employers,—it is the height of folly not to have a settled scale of expenditure, or to suffer the outlay in any one department to exceed its appointed limits, which ought in prudence to be considerably within the actual capabilities of a single year. In the arrangement of, and adherence to, this prudent scale for the distribution of property, a man will be greatly dependent on the discretion and good principles of his wife. I would impress on the young married female the duty of scrupulously and cheerfully conforming her personal expenses to her husband’s resources. ‘ Whose adorning,’ said the apostle to the Chris- tian wives, ‘ let it not be that outward adorning of plaiting the hair, and of wearing of gold, or of putting on of apparel,’ i Pet. iii. 3. ‘Not,’ said another, ‘with broidered hair, or gold, or pearls, or costly array,’ I Tim. ii. 9. Thus combining a caution against spending too much time or too much money on dress and ornaments, and recommending the unexpensive and incomparably more tasteful as well as excellent adornments of meekness, modesty, and good works. It is evident from the contrast implied, that finery and profusion in personal attire are at variance with all these. Surely no well-principled young woman could bear the idea of her husband suffering anything like embarrassment, or even being straitened m purposes of benevolence, by her expensive tastes and habits ! It may be, that in the house of her father she has been liberally supplied j per- haps a considerable sum placed at her own disposal, for dress and pocket-money; perhaps allowed to purchase what she pleased at her father s expense j and it may not have occurred to her that her hus- band’s resources are more circumscribed and uncertain than those of her father. But a hint to the wise is sufficient, and a moment’s con- sideration will convince her that it would be a most preposterous thing for one half of her husband’s income to be spent on decking out her person ; or in case of the distressing contingency of his being involved m difficulty, for half the difficulties to be traced to her lavish personal expenditure. ‘Oh, no!’ she will exclaim; ‘one half! no - far be it from me to consume a tenth. I ought to have learned frugality and moderation before I was married ; but better late than never. I will immediately begin to economize in my personal expenses.’ Do you my young friend, adopt and adhere to the wise resolution. Accustom yourself, this first year, to economize in a manner to which you have yourself into a habit of seeing fine things without desinng to possess them; of seeing other people in a newer