436 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. they should be served without delay on a slice of toast, with a boatful of melted butter. Stewed Winter Spinach.—Boil and squeeze the vegetable; mix 3 oz. ot butter with a spoonful of salt and as much flour as it will hold; put this and the spinach into a stewpan, and stir it well for a quarter of an hour. Before serving, add a tea-cupful of cream, or of ved or beef gravy. This dish is applicable to any joint of roast meat. TO PRESERVE SOME VEGETABLES TO EAT IN WINTER. Store Onions keep best hung up in a dry, cold room. Carrots, etc.—Carrots, parsnips, and beetroots should be kept in layers of dry sand for winter use, and neither they nor potatoes should be cleared from the earth. Potatoes should be carefully kept from frost. Parsley should be cut close to the stalks and dried in a warm room, or on tins in a very cool oven; it preserves its flavour and colour, and is very useful in winter. French Beans.—Pick them young, and throw into a little wooden keg a layer of them three inches deep, and sprinkle with salt and a layer of beans alternately, as high as you think proper. Do not put too much salt, or they will not be pleasant to the taste; lay over them a plate or cover of wood that will go into the keg, and put a heavy stone on it. A pickle will rise from the beans and salt. When they are to be eaten, cut, soak, and boil them as if fresh. Artichoke Bottoms, slowly dried, should be kept in paper bags; and truffles, morels, lemon-peel, etc., in a dry place, ticketed. il/i'w/.—When mint is green and plentiful, cut it up fine and put it into empty pickle bottles; fill the bottles with vinegar, and cork closely; add the sugar when required for use. No one can tell it from that newly gathered. Spinach.—It should be quite fresh in the first place, and taken leaf by leaf from the stalks; by this means a peculiar vegetable fibre resembling hair, and constantly found on spinach beds, will be avoided. Wash the leaves in two or three large panfuls of water, drain through a colander, and then dry them well in a coarse cloth. Select a good-sized saucepan, put three table-spoonfuls of salt into the water; as soon as it boils clear away the scum, and then throw in the spinach, which, being light, will float on the surface, and will require to be forced into the water with a large fork or spoon. Ten minutes’ boiling is enough. Drain off the water, place the spinach between two wooden trenchers, and squeeze out as much water as possible; then chop it quite fine, after which give it another pressure with the trenchers. As it is essential to serve it to table quite hot, put it into a stewpan with tlie