BILL OF FARE FOR DECEMBER. 349 DECEMBER 11. ‘ In the home of the good the angel of hope is 7iever absent.'—Bentley. 1. Soup a la Cantatrice. 2. Leg of Mutton Cutlets. 3. Swiss Apple Pudding. 4. Vegetables. 1. Sotip d la Catitatrice.—Having washed 3 oz. of sago in boiling water, add it gradually with a large lump of sugar (i bay leaf, if liked) to 2 quarts of nearly boiling medium stock seasoned to the taste. Simmer till well dissolved, which will be in about half an hour. To half a pint of boiling cream add the yolks of 3 eggs well beaten; stir it quickly in the soup, but do not let the soup boil (or the eggs will curdle), and serve at once. Medium Stock for the above.—Buy 4 lbs. of the knuckle of veal, or 4 lbs. of the shin of beef (or, if preferred, 2 lbs. of each), and a ^ lb. of lean bacon or ham, and 3 lbs. of bones. Cut the meat and ham into pieces about three inches square; rub 2 oz. of butter on the bottom of the stewpan; put in half a pint of water, the meat and bones, with any trimmings of fresh meat or poultry that may be in the house, half a tea-spoonful of whole pepper, 2 oz. of salt, i large blade of mace, 3 lumps of sugar, i bunch of savoury herbs, i head of celery, 2 large onions (each stuck with 3 cloves), i turnip, and 3 carrots. Cover the stewpan, place it on a sharp fire, occasionally stirring its contents; add 4 quarts of cold water when the bottom of the pan is covered with a jelly-like pale substance: do not let it boil at all, but let it very gently simmer for five hours, removing all scum while it is doing, and strain when done through a fine hair sieve. This stock is the basis of almost all soups, the vegetables or flavouring being varied as required. 2. Leg of Mutton Cutlets.—In winter a small family may ensure a variety of fare by having a leg of mutton divided in half; hang the knuckle, and cut the thick end into slices of about three-quarters of an inch in thickness, sawing the bone in the centre, but leaving the section in the meat. These slices are to be dressed in the pan; two tea- cupfuls of water, and one of Harvey’s, Reading, Lopresti’s, or any favourite sauce, with a small portion of soluble cayenne and salt, and two drops of garlic vinegar. 3. Swiss Apple Budding.—A\tema.te layers of sliced apples and sugar, with a thin layer of rusk, pounded and soaked in milk; finish with powdered rusks; pour melted butter over; grate sugar over before serving.