THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 88 7 eggs, strain them through a sieve, and add a little sweet milk if required; stir this well into the other ingredients; make it thick, but not too stiff. Just before you are going to boil it, stir into it a glass of mm or brandy; scald a cloth, flour it and lay it m a basin; pour in your pudding; then have ready another cloth, also scalded and floured, which lay over the top; tie it round tightly, and put it in boiling water, of which there should be abundance, as well as plenty of room; keep it boiling for six or seven hours. When it is done, take it out of the pot, let it stand a few minutes to cool, or dip it into cold water; then turn it out into a dish, and serve it with caudle sauce. A plain pudding may be made by using less fruit and spices. 4. Almond Custard.—Bea.t up in a mortar ^ lb. of sweet almonds, previously blanched ; when these are rendered very fine, stir m 2 tea- spoonfuls of rose-water, the yolks of 4 eggs well whisked, and a pint 0 cream; then sweeten with powdered sugar to your taste. Put this over a slow fire, and keep it constantly stirred till it has reached its proper thickness ; it will then be fit to be put into cups. —0— MARCH S. • She lives who lives to virtue ; girls who cast ^ Their ends for pleasure, do not live, but Herrick. . I. Lobster as an Entree. 2. Rolled Beef and Mashed Potatoes. 3. Currant Dumplings. I Lobster as an Entrk.-Ctso^ the meat of a good-sized lobster fine, and add to it half a salt-spoonful of powdered mace, the same quantity of soluble cayenne, and a spoonful of salt; beat up 3 eps, ru ^ of butter into i oz. of bread-crumbs; mix all well together, and bo in a well-buttered mould for an hour. Sprinkle the pea over it, and the inside of a sirloin; on a hanging P ’ spoonful of pounded allspice. Larding quantity of vinegar a rich gravy in the dish, it improves the look and flavour. Serve witn a rin ^ j Currant jelly and melted ^utterjn ^ J- ^710n7pl2 before ihe fire. Chop a lb. o. sue. very small,