THE GARDEN, AND GARDENING. CO: We know of hardly one exception as to the time of striking, unless that of the shrubby bedding Calceolarias—they always, with us, do best when stubby side cuttings are taken off, and inserted in fresh sandy loam, under a cold frame or pit, in the end of October or the beginning of November; we prefer the last, if we could make sure of frost keeping away. They will take a couple of months or more to make roots, but then scarcely one in a thousand will fail to do so; among them there is one exception—the Amplexicaulis—which will not bear so much cold and damp as the others. In the case of other bedding plants that have been inserted as cuttings some time ago, and have not rooted suffi- ciently, a little bottom heat, with light and air above, will be of im- portance for getting them all right before the short days come on us. When all the principal beds are cleared, let them be immediately pre- pared for the reception of bulbous plants, such as Narcissus, Hyacinths, Turban Ranunculus, and Tulips, and let the whole of them be edged with Crocus of various colours; some may also be filled with spring-flowering herbaceous plants, such as Viola Arborea, Primroses, Polyanthus, Alys- sum, Iberis, Aubrietia, and Arabis, all of which will help to keep up a gay appearance in early spring, and will mostly be over before the beds will be again required for bedding plants. Some of the larger beds may be filled with nice dwarf plants of the hardier evergreens; common Rhododendrons, which may be moved any day in the year, are very suitable for the purpose—in fact, all evergreens, when they come to be moved every year, get quite used to, and seem to look for the operation • for such purposes a reserve garden should be kept. Many kinds of herbaceous plants may now be taken up, divided, and replanted; it is far better than doing it in the spring. Amongst them do not forget ‘^o^ble Rockets, both purple and white; they should be hfted annually about the first week in the month, divided into pieces, and replanted in fresh situations. Alterations which involve planting trees and shrubs should be set about vigorously; every tree and shmb planted this month will stand in a far better position as to Its well-doing than those planted during any other month of the year ^ ^ planting fruit es will here apply. Attention, as in spring, to watering, etc. will be reduced to a minimum. < The bulbs of Tigridia Pavonia and Conchiflora may now be lifted and er eing dried, stored away in sand secure from mice. Frequently trl ^ should be lifted a d packed closely under glass, and the roots kept moistish until the leaves