302 THINGS A LADY WOULD LUCE TO KNOW. and salt Put the fillets into a tureen, pour the broth over, and add some slices of fried bread cut in dice. 2. Roast Partridges.—The partridge, being prepared for roasting, should have a piece of butter rolled in salt and pepper put in its inside. Roast before a brisk fire for about half an hour, and keep well basted with butter; froth up just before serving, and dish with a little gravy over; send up bread sauce and gravy in tureens. Note.—Partridges can be stuffed with mushrooms; thus cooked, they are very delicious eating. Sufficient for a brace is thus prepared : Half or three-quarters of a pint of buttons or mushroom flaps; dissolve i'^ oz. of butter over a slow fire ; put in the mushrooms, slightly sprinkled with salt and cayenne. Stew for a quarter of an hour, turn them out to cool; when quite cold, use them as stuffing for the birds, which sew up securely to keep the filling in. Roast and serve as usual. 3. Stewed Sweetbreads.—One or 2 sweetbreads, i pint of veal broth, some marjoram, mace, pepper, salt, flour, yolks of 2 eggs. Soak the sweetbreads in warm water, and then put them into a stew- pan with the veal broth, pepper, salt, and mace, with a little marjoram, and let them stew for rather more than half an horn:. When done, place them on a hot dish ; thicken the gravy with a little flour and the beaten yolks of 2 eggs ; pour the sauce over the sweetbreads, and serve. 4. Egg Fritters.—Take some well-drained poached eggs, brush them over with well-beaten yolk of egg ; strew over some good cheese grated, then bread-crumbs; fry a moment in very hot clarified butter. Serve with fried or crisped parsley. OCTOBER 24. ‘ Act well at the moment, and you have performed a good action to all eternity.' —Lavater. 1. Boiled Eels. 3. Vegetables. 2. Meat and Potato Pudding. 4. College Puddings. 1. Boiled Eels.—Boiled eels are done in a small quantity of water, with a good deal of parsley, which should be served up with them and the liquor. The small ones are best for boiling. Serve witli chopped parsley and butter. 2. Meat and Potato Pudding.—Boil 4 lbs. of potatoes, and dry them well over the fire; beat and roll them fine. When cold, beat them up with 2 eggs and a quart of milk into a smooth batter; now lay some steaks, seasoned with pepper and salt, in a deep dish, and pour on about half the batter; then some more steaks, then the rest of the batter. Bake it gradually, and of a fine brown.