449 RECEIPTS FOR SA UCES. the whole simmer gently for one hour, or till the liquor is reduced to a full ^ pint. Then stir the gravy; put it in another saucepan; make a thickening of butter and flour, and stir it to the gravy over a nice clear fire until rather thick, but perfectly smooth, care being taken that the butter does not float on the surface. Skim well; add the other ingredients; then do not boil, but gradually heat the sauce. If this sauce is intended for an efiires, it must be of sufficient thickness to adhere to what it is meant to cover. Maih-e THotel, French. — Make a thickening with a small table- spoonful of flour and 2 oz. of butter. Keep these stirred constantly for nearly fifteen minutes; then add -i a pint of pale, rich veal gravy to them boiling, in small portions, mixing up well as it is added, and letting it boil up between each; if this is not done, the butter will be likely to float upon the surface. Simmer the sauce for a few minutes. Skim it well; then add pepper, 2 or 3 tea-spoonfuls of minced parsley, the strained juice of i lemon, salt it required. For some dishes this sauce is thickened with about 4 yolks of eggs to the pint. The French generally work a small bit of butter into their sauce before taking from the fire, to give them mellowness. Mint Sauce.—Pick and wash fresh leaves of mint, and chop them finely. To every table-spoonful of chopped mint allow a tea-spoonful of fine raw sugar; mix the mint and the sugar very thoroughly, and then just moisten with vinegar, and let it stand for about an hour. Just before sending to table add as much vinegar as will make the sauce of an agreeable consistence. Note.—Loaf sugar is used, but good raw answers quite as well, and to many tastes is preferable. Mushroom Ketchup.—Carefully examine the lot of mushrooms, and remove any that are unsoimd or have the worm; pluck out the stalks, and place the mushrooms selected for use in a deep dish, with their tops downwards; strew a liberal handful of salt over them. In two hours you will perceive a quantity of dark-coloured liquid at the bottom of the dish, and the brown interior of the fungus undergoing a rapid dissolu- tion; with a silver dessert spoon remove the interior from its leathern top, throwing away the latter. As soon as you have completed this, add a tea-spoonful of soluble cayenne, half a dozen allspice, and boil the liquor till you have thoroughly dissolved all the mushrooms. Strain and bottle for use. Nonpareil Sauce.—Vnt i pint of tomato juice into a stewpan; have ready three large apples and 4 large onions baked; break them up, and add them to the liquor, with 4 pint of walnut vinegar, | of mushroom ketchup, 4 pmt onion vinegar, and pint of plain vinegar. Grate 2 nutmegs; mix with J tea-spoonful cayenne, 2 tea-spoonfuls of salt • of 2 F ^