502 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. come out clean at the joint, and be ready at once for dibbing in. In some cases there may be a little film adhering, which must be removed with a sharp knife. Prick out Brompton and Queen Stocks into nursery beds; see that beds of Violets do not want for water. Towards the end of the month put in a few handlights of choice Verbena cuttings on a south border, which will make fine plants to pot in September, and supply any number of cuttings in the spring. Cuttings inserted in this ‘ and the next month will have little chance to be troubled with mildew or thrip, which is almost sure to attack these plants late in autumn. The propagation of any choice kinds of bedding plants when the stock is short may be commenced at once, and followed up as fast as cuttings can be procured. Stake Hollyhocks and Dahlias in time, also Salvias, Phloxes, Asters, and other autumnal-blooming plants. Pick off the seed vessels from Rhododendrons and Azaleas ; and if the weather is dry, let them have copious supplies of water, and mulch when procurable, with rotten dung in which leaves form a principal part. Clip box edgings, also yew, thorn, and laurel hedges; but for yews and laurel, and especially the latter, it is preferable to use the knife, and so as to hide the cuts; it is always disagreeable to see laurel leaves chopped and cut in the middle. Go over the shrubberies and reduce any over- luxuriant growth, and remove the remains of early flowers. AUGUST. Operations in this department for this month are principally routinal, such as watering, staking, tying, and, in fact, all the operations which have a thorough neatness in view. Bedding plants of all sorts should now be in very great beauty, and it is the proper time to determine on any different arrangement of colour which may be thought desirable for another season. The tall varieties of Lobelias will be very much benefited by frequent and copious applications of liquid manure, so also will the beds of Cannas. Give plants of Pampas Grass frequent doses of liquid manure and water alternately, if the weather is dry. Propagation for the wants of another season must now be commenced, particularly of such sorts as do not ropt freely; for unless they get pretty well rooted before winter, they art often difficult to preserve. All kinds of juicy Scarlet Pelargoniums will root well in the open air; the shrivelling of their leaves is of no consequence. Attend strictly to the routine of mowing, sweeping, and rolling, and to keeping the edges of all well defined; indeed, perfect order and a finished appearance are quite as essential to the enjoyment of a garden as beautiful flowers and superior cultivation.