31 BILL OF FARE FOR JANUARY. three or four bunches of raisins cut and stoned, a table-spoonful of candied citron, two ounces of ratafia cakes; beat up five eggs with two glasses of brown sherry, and one of brandy; add enough fine Lisbon sugar to sweeten it; boil a pint of milk with half a dozen cloves and a quarter of a stick of cinnamon; strain, and add the milk to the above. See that the mould be well buttered, and boil two hours. 7. Lemon Tartlett, Siilion Cheese, and Celery, with pulled Bread.— The juice of two lemons, and the peel grated; clean the grater with bread. Crumbs only sufficient to clean the grater from the peel. Beat all together with two eggs, half a pound of sugar, and a quarter of a pound of butter; put in a light paste, and bake it. J ANU A R Y 2. ‘ True delicacy, that most beautiful heart-leaf of humanity, exhibits t significantly in little things. ’—Mary Howitt. 1. Roast Pheasant, Gravy, .and Bread Sauce. 2. Cold Sirloin of Beef and Horseradish. itself most 3. Mashed Potatoes. 4. Brocoli. 5- Sutherland Pudding. I. Roast Pheasant, Gravy, and Bread Sauee.—It should hang for some time, and not be plucked till in a good condition to be cooked Wipe the inside with a damp cloth after it is plucked and drawn, and ss It with the head brought round under the wing. Flour and baste well before a brisk fire; if a large bird, it will take about an hour Serve with bread sauce and plenty of brown gravy, pouring a little round the bird. For Bread Sauce, see the 3d oOanLy ® 3. Mashed Fotatoes.—When sufficiently boiled, drain them quite drv • beat them over the fire till free from lumps, and stir well in a or r tabTe’ spoonfuls of mrlk, a little salt, and butter. Allow about an omce of butter to each pound of mashed potatoes. 4- ^^4.—Pare off the side leaves and the outside of the stalk which must be cut close to the bottom. See that the water is boilin^ throw m a table-spoonful of salt, and let the heads boil for a quarter of on a f tender, the vegetables are done Serve on a slice of toast, with a boatful of melted butter. 5* StiihstiuHci Puddtti^,—To 2 cfftrs sdH r. r i a.°a“d”;sVb%" salt, and just before putting into the ‘bason’ /winrVi P'ocn ot