THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 204 heart sweetbreads, and put them into warm water to disgorge; blanch them to make them firm, and lard them on the top. Prepare a stew- pan as for a fricandeau, and braize them. When done, drain them dry and glaze them well. Serve aptivcc of sorrel or endive under them. Gvc6tipct^6 ^h/*A^“Select fruit not cj^uite ripe, but perfectly sound , fill a pie-dish with them ; beat up lb. of powdered sugar in as much spring water as will dissolve it; pour this over the fruit, cover with puff paste, and bake in a moderate oven. Lay on a coating of yolk of egg with a brush over your crust; put the tart back in the oven for a few minutes, and sprinkle powdered sugar over the top before serving. —0— JULY 11. ‘ So be ours the faith that saveth, Hope that every trial braveth, Love that to the end endureth. And, through Christ, the crcnun secureth'—DoANE. 1. Grey Mullet. 2. Sweetbread Pie. 3. Vegetables. 4. Regent Pudding. I. Grey Mullet.—TUv;, is a fish of a peculiar flavour and character. It may be boiled, broiled, roasted, or baked. When small, it may be cooked in the usual fashion of dressing such fish as whitmgs, etc. 1 large, it may be cooked as cod or salmon. 2 Stueetbread Fie.—'BoW over a slow fire, in 4 quarts of water, half a neck of veal and 2 lbs. of gravy beef, with half a tea-spoonful of grated nutmeg, equal quantities of mace in powder and soluble cayenne, and a tea-spoonful of salt; let this simmer till the liquor is reduced to abou half a pint; strain this off. Have a good puff paste ready placed round the dish you intend to use, and put therein half a dozen sweetbread stuffed with green truffles, a dozen of oysters with their carfthaTthefoh and meat are properly distributed; then fill the d.h with the gravy before made as above. Put on the top crust, an in a quick oven for an hour and a quarter. Recrent Puddim.—Five eggs well beaten, and i pmt o . ed ™£5^^ turn it into a deep dish with like threads, i lb. ol U, ana pour it round the pudding, no. over it, as it would discolour and might break iL