414 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 4. Vea/ Cutlets in Paper.—An oz. of bread-crumbs, 2 oz. of fat bacon, a small shalot, a good sprig of parsley, a large mushroom (or a truffle), all very finely chopped; add the grated rind of half a lemon, the tenth part of a nutmeg, a salt-spoonful of mixed sweet herbs, half a salt- spoonful of salt, and half a salt-spoonful of pepper. Cut 3 chops off the best end of the neck of veal, just as thick as the bone; take off the skin and the chine part of the bone; butter 3 sheets of small foolscap paper with 3 oz. of butter; dissolve 2 oz. of butter, dip the cutlets into it, and then into the seasoned crumbs; lay each on a sheet of paper, and boil slowly in plenty of lard for an hour. Drain on a sieve before the fire, and serve in the paper. 5. Fowl, with Savoury Macaroni.—Put 6 oz. of the best Genoa maca- roni into 3 pints of cold water, and let it remain two hours. Cut up a cold fowl; put the bones and trimmings into a saucepan, with an onion sliced, half a carrot, 3 sprigs of parsley, i clove, a tea-spoonful of salt, a tea-spoonful of flour of mustard, a dessert-spoonful of grated cheese, a grain of cayenne, and a piece of garlic as big as a pea; pour in a quart of cold water or any light stock; boil for two hours, then strain; lay the macaroni carefully into a stewpan, with 3 oz. of butter; pour over the gravy, and simmer till tender (about an hour and a half). Season the fowl (I of a lb.) with a salt-spoonful of salt, the same of white pepper, and the eighth part of a nutmeg grated; dredge it lightly with baked flour, and fry to a nice yellow colour (ten minutes) in olive oil (a gill), or dissolved butter ( a ^ of a lb.). Lay the macaroni round the dish in the form of a wall; add half a wine-glassful of Marsala to the gravy; place the fowl in the centre; pour over the gravy, and send to table at once. 6. Leg of Pork, with Italian Sauce.—Have a leg of very small pork; roast it before a good fire, at a distance, for two hours, and serve with the sauce, made as follows, poured over:—Wash, scrape, and remove the bone of i anchovy; peel 2 shalots and a piece of garlic the size of a pea; wash 3 sprigs of parsley; chop these as fine as possible, and put them into a saucepan with an oz. of butter; stir over the fire till the shalot is tender; add a tea-spoonful of baked flour, a table-spoonful of vinegar, a gill of strong stock, a tea-spoonful of capers chopped, half a salt- spoonful of pepper, half a salt-spoonful of mustard; boil ten minutes; strain; put the sauce again into the saucepan; boil it up; add a table- spoonful of white wine, and serve immediately. 7. Roast Partridges.—Hang the birds before a brisk fire ; baste con- stantly with butter. Serve garnished with fried crumbs, and with gravy and bread sauce in tureens. Put 3 oz. of crumbs of bread into a small frying-pan or stewpan, with oz. of butter, and fry over a gentle fire (stirring all the time) till of a pale yellow brown colour; drain on a