THE ART OF COOKING. 25 at first, or it may stick to the pot; dip the pudding into cold water immediately you take it out, to prevent it sticking. If you boil your pudding in a dish or basin, butter the inside before putting the pud- ding in; the same should be done to the dish lor a baked pudding or pie. The quality of pie-crust depends much on the baking. If the oven be too hot, the paste, besides being burned, will fall; if too slack, it will be soddened, and consequently heavy. Paste should be made on a cold, smooth substance, such as marble, with a light, cool hand. It should be made quickly; much handling makes it heavy. Great nicety is required in wetting the paste, too liftle moisture rendering it dry and crumbly, while too much makes it tough and heavy; and in either case, the paste cannot be easily worked. Practice alone can produce perfection in this art. Before commencing to make paste for pies or puddings, it is neces- sary to place near at hand everything likely to be wanted, to inspect all the utensils, to prepare all the ingredients, and though last, not least, to wash the hands and nails perfectly clean; for the hands are the best tools to make paste with. Always use good sweet butter, dripping, or lard for pie or pudding crust. Some persons entertain the mistaken notion that butter which cannot be eaten on bread will do very well for paste ; on the contrary, the baking or boiling of rancid fat increases the bad flavour. It is a good plan to wash the butter in clean spring water before using it. Make two or three holes with a fork in the cover of your pies, that the steam may escape. TO DRESS VEGETABLES. Be careful to pick and wash greens thoroughly; pick them close, for one old outside leaf will deteriorate a dishful; split the stems of cabbages across twice. They should be washed in a pan, as particles of sand or dust are very apt to hang round wooden vessels; do not pour or pump he water on them but plunge them in; it is a good plan to throw into the water a good handful of salt, as that will draw out worms or other insects, which you cannot see without pulling the vegetables to pieces. ^eens should be boiled by themselves, in plenty of water, with a good lump of salt; the water should boil when they are put in, and be twhtS; done, or they are unwhole;ome; a No dhections can be given as to the exact time that vegetables take oihng, as much depends on their size and age. To ascertain when