in NTS FOR DEPORTMENT, ETC. 5 = 5 in which fancy and strength of imagination are predominant—it is more beautiful than useful. When the different rills or torrents join, and descend into the plain, it becomes slow and stately in its movements ; it is applied to move machinery, to irrigate meadows, and to bear upon its bosom the stately barge; in this mature state, it is deep, strong, and useful. As it flows on towards the sea, it loses its force and its motion, and at last, as it were, becomes lost and mingled with the mighty abyss of waters. One might pursue the metaphor still further and say, that in its origin, its thundering and foam, when it carries down clay from the bank and becomes impure, it resembles the youthful mind affected by dangerous passions. And the influence of a lake in calming and clear- ing the turbid water may be compared to the effect of reason in more mature life, when the tranquil, deep, cool, and unimpassioned mind is freed from its fever, its troubles, bubbles, noise, and foam. And, above all, the sources of a river, which may be considered as belonging to the atmosphere, and its termination in the ocean, may be regarded as imaging the divine origin of the human mind, and its being ultimately returned to, and lost in, the Infinite and Eternal Intelligence from which it originally sprung.—Sir Htimphry Davy. LOVE ! Love, shall I read thy dream ? oh ! is it not All of some sheltering wood-embosomed spot— A bower for thee and thine ? Yes ! lone and lowly is that home, yet there Something of heaven in the transparent air Makes every flower divine*! Something that mellows and that glorifies. Breathes o’er it ever from the tender skies, As o’er some blessed isle. E’en like the soft and spiritual glow Kindling rich woods, whereon the ethereal bow Sleeps lovingly awhile. Then by the hearth shall many a glorious page, From mind to mind the immortal heritage. For thee its treasures pour ; O’er music’s voice at vesper hours be heard. Or dearer interchange of playful word. Affection’s household love.