149 BILL OF FARE FOR MA K oz. of whole allspice; half an oz. whole pepper; 2 bay-leaves, and i tea-spoonful of salt: boil all together for ten minutes, and then stand to get cold; pour it over the salmon, and it will be ready to send to the table in twelve hours, 2. Boiled Leg of La7nb.—A leg of lamb is a delicate dish when nicely boiled. If whiteness is desirable, wrap it in a clean cloth; only the liquor will then be spoiled for broth. Boil one of 5 lbs. gently for about an hour and a half. When you dish it, cut the loin into chops, fry them and lay round it. Sauce : plain melted butter, or parsley and butter. 4. Lemon Pudding.—Beat the yolks of 4 eggs; add 4 oz. of white sugar, the rind of a lemon being rubbed with some lumps of it to take the flavour; then put and beat it in a mortar with the juice of a large lemon, and mix all with 4 or 5 oz. of butter warmed. Put a crust into a shallow dish, nick the edges, and put the above into it. When served, turn the pudding out of the dish. ~o— MAY IS. Sohyiety is the move inw(i7‘d habit [so to speali) which must suppovt cud give value to the whole; or, to drop the metaphor, that eternal and prevailing character, by which every part of a womans dress and demeanour must be ever regulated,'—Rev. James Fordyce, D.D. 1. Edinburgh Barley Broth, 3. Vegetables. 2. Green Goose. 4. Ipswich Pudding. 1. Edinburgh Barley Broth.—Procure a shin of beef of about 8 lbs. weight, and have it divided into 4 pieces; take half a lb. of Scotch barley, and wash it free from husk or dust in lukewarm water; select a large saucepan, put in your beef and barley, and cover them with cold water; as soon as the water boils take away the scum, and then add a couple of heads of celery, 2 small turnips, and 2 onions, all chopped up; you may now season the liquor with salt to your taste; let it stew over a slow fire for three hours; take out the meat, place it on a dish, and then pour the broth into an earthen vessel, where it should remain all night, to enable you to take away the fat. Next day warm up the meat and soup, and serve it to table, either with or without the bouilli and vegetables, as your fancy dictates. 2. Green Instead of the stuffing of sage and onions given to bread-crumbs mixed with pepper and salt are used. Three-quarters of an hour’s roasting will be sufficient. Send it made ^iard^ 4. Ipwich Pudding.—in a pint and a half of cream 3 oz. of