5i8 things a lady WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. benevolence. Most men of that character would esteem it an agree- able recreation from severer pursuits, playfully to impart the rudiments of knowledge to a docile pupil in the person of an admired and beloved wife. Another duty which a married woman owes to her husband is love to home, and such exertions as are likely to render home attractive to him likewise. Men, in general, are occupied from home in the pursuits of business, or, at least, they are so engaged through the day in the office, the shop, or the counting-house, that they see but little of the wife and children. It is unspeakably important that a man of business should be inclined to spend his hours of leisure in the bosom of his family. Hence the duty of the wife to render home, by the winning charms of her behaviour, attractive and delightful to her husband, derives additional force. Let her consider the numberless temptations to vice, to profusion, to idle amusement, with which he is encompassed. Let her remember with what various characters the business of his station renders him familiar; of whom some, perhaps, openly deride the principles of religion ; others sap them by insidious machinations ; others extenuate, by their wit and talents, the offensiveness of guilt; others add to the seducing example of gay wickedness, the fascinations of rank and popularity. Is she desirous of his society? would she confirm him in domestic habits ? would she fortify him against being allured into the haunts of luxury, riot, and profaneness ? Let her con- duct show that home is dear to herself in his absence, still dearer when he is present. Let her unaffected mildness, her ingenuous tenderness, display before his mind a forcible contrast to the violence, the artifice, the unfeeling selfishness which he witnesses in his commerce with the world. Let the cheerful tranquillity of domestic pleasures stand for- ward, to supply the place of trifling and turbulent festivity abroad. Let his house, so far as her endeavours can be effectual, be the abode of happiness, and he will surely have little temptation to bewilder himself in seeking for happiness under another roof. The regulation of her personal expenses, on a scale conformable to her husband’s income, is the indispensable duty of a married woman. By this it is by no means meant to imply that it is incumbent on her to spend to the full extent which the resources of the family might warrant, but that she should scrupulously adhere to the rule of keeping within these limits. Where persons have a stated and certain income, their scale of expenditure is more easily arranged; but how- ever liberal that income may be, it is the part of wisdom, and the only security against straits, to allot and apportion it with judicious care to the various branches of expenditure; and even of a stated income arising from permanent sources, to reserve some portion for unforeseen