’PARTY' DINNER FOR OCTOBER. 7. Pigeon Pie.—young pigeons, cut in quarters; i lb, of rump- 4T7 skin them, and place them either in a Dutch oven before a quick fire or on a gridiron, for eight minutes, to draw out the fat; split them down the thin part, take out the backbone, cut off the fins, scrape the outside, and cut them into pieces 3 inches long. Have 3 oz. of dried crumbs of bread and 2 well-beaten eggs; dip each piece of eel into the egg, then into the crumbs, and fry in boiling lard (sufficient to thoroughly cover them) over a gentle fire (about twenty-five minutes) till of a pqle yellow colour. Serve, placed in a circular form, on neatly-folded foolscap paper, with melted butter. 4. Mutton Cutlets., with Indian Sauce.—Have 6 or 8 cutlets off the best end of the neck, the third of an inch thick; trim off all the fat and gristle, leaving only the round piece of lean beat them with a chopper ; brush them over with beaten egg, and strew them with fine crumbs of bread, seasoned with the tenth part of a nutmeg grated, and ^ a salt- spoonful of salt; put them into a tin dish, with a small piece of butter (a I of an oz. to each) under and on each, and bake in a moderate oven about three-quarters of an hour: they must be a light-brown colour. Chop fine a tea-cupful of Indian pickle; add it to a table-spoonful of chutney, 2 table-spoonfuls of stock or gravy; simmer ten minutes, and serve with the cutlets; place the cutlets in a circle, and the sauce in the centre. 5. Broiled Pigeons.—pigeons must be trussed flat. Knead rather more than an oz. of butter with a dessert-spoonful of baked flour, a tea-spoonful of chopped chives, | a tea-spoonful of chopped parsley^ a of a salt-spoonful of salt, the same of pepper ; stir over the fire for five minutes; dip the pigeons (two) in while warm, but not hot, and con- tinue to do so till the mixture all adheres to them. Let them stand for an hour, then broil over a bright fire for eighteen or twenty minutes Serve with the following sauce in the dish Rub the bottom of a small saucepan twice across with garlic; put in an oz. of butter, a dessert- spoonful of baked flour, a of a salt-spoonful of pepper; stir till well mixed; then add a gill of either stock or water, a table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, a table-spoonful of Marsala, the strained juice of a lemon, and 2 pickled gherkins finely chopped; boil fast for eight minutes, then serve. ° 6. Roast Shoulder of Km/.—Shoulder of veal should be stuffed Pass your knife between the blade-bone and the meat on its upper surface. You thus easily make a sort of pocket, into which pocket push your veal-stuffing. By making the opening as narrow as may be, there will be no need to sew it up or close it with string. On the contrary, a little delicately browned stuffing, protruding, will help to garnish the joint, and will show the carver where to find the forcemeat.