413 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. steak, -I an inch thick, cut into 6 pieces; 4 fresh eggs, boiled ten minutes: season the whole with 2 salt-spoonfuls and a half of salt and 2 salt-spoonfuls of pepper. Lay the steak at the bottom of a ten-inch pie-dish, the pigeons upon it, the yolks of the eggs at equal distances; add about a gill of gravy or water. Rub the edge of the dish with lard or butter; line it with strips of paste the sixth of an inch thick; moisten it with cold water; cover it with paste; press round to make it adhere; trim with a sharp knife; notch at inch dis- tances ; make a hole in the centre; ornament to fancy, and bake in a moderate oven for two hours and a quarter. Make the paste as follows; —Moisten 9 oz. of flour with ^ a gill of cold water and the juice of ^ a lemon; knead flat; put in the centre ^ a lb. of good butter; fold over; roll out 4 times ; dredge flour over each time. Let it stand in a cool place two or three hours. 8. Almond and Bread Pudding.—Blanch 3 oz. of sweet and 4 bitter almonds, and boil them ten minutes in ^ a pint of milk, then pound them to a paste. Chop 4 oz. of beef-marrow, beat 2 eggs, and add to the milk the almonds were boiled in; rub 3 oz. of bread a day old to crumbs; mix these ingredients together; add ^ a lb. of moist sugar, the strained juice and grated rind of a lemon, the sixth part of a nutmeg grated, and 2 table-spoonfuls of flour. Let it stand, to soak the bread, for half an hour, then beat with a wooden spoon for a quarter of an hour. Butter a mould, put in the pudding, tie it closely over, and boil fast for three hours. Serve, either with sugar sifted over it, or with the following sauce. 9. Ditto Sauce.—Moisten a dessert-spoonful of arrowroot with a little cold water; boil 3 dessert-spoonfuls of sugar in a gill of water for ten minutes; mix it with the arrowroot; stir it over the fire for two minutes; add 2 table-spoonfuls of brandy and 20 drops of the essence of sweet almonds. Serve in the dish, not poured over the pudding. 10. Blancmange.—Take ^ a lb. of sweet almonds and 10 bitter almonds; blanch them, and pound them in a mortar with a little milk. Melt a lb. of sugar in 4 tumblers of milk, and in it boil the pounded almonds, flavouring with vanilla. Strain the whole through a^ piece of coarse muslin; and, while the ingredients are still hot, stir into them ^ an oz. of isinglass, previously dissolved in boiling water and then strained. Then put the whole into a mould, which must remain twenty-four hours in a cold cellar, or six hours on ice, before turning the blancmange out of the mould.