24 TfT/NGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. Crimped Gloucester salmon is plentiful in June and part of July; but it may be procured almost all the year round. Common salmon, from March to July. Salmon peale, from June to July. Spey trout, from May to July. Sturgeon is very good in June. Turbot, soles, and brill are in season all the year round. John Dory’s depend entirely upon chance, but may be procured all the year round for the epicure. May excepted. The original season of Yarmouth mackerel is from the 12th of May till the end of July; now we have Christmas mackerel; then the West of England mackerel, which are good at the beginning of April. Haddock and whiting all the year round. Skate all the winter. Smelts from the Medway are the best, and are winter fish; the Yarmouth and Carlisle are good, but rather large; the Dutch are also very large, which often lose in the estimation of the epicure. Gurnards are spring fish. Fresh herrings, from November to January. River eels all the year round. Lobsters and prawns, spring, and part of summer. Crabs are best in May. Barrelled oysters, from the middle of September till the end of February. , ,, , , Sprats were formerly said to come in on Lord Mayor s day (Novem- ber o), but they are only good in frosty weather. Fish is readily known to be in perfection by the layer of curdy matter interposed within its flakes. It often happens, however, that those parts of fish—viz. the pulpy, gelatinous, or glutinous—which are con- sidered the most delicious, are the most indigestible. PIES AND PUDDINGS. In boiling puddings, see that the cloth is perfectly clean. Dip it m ho! wa°eVand dredge it well with flour. If a bread puddrng, t,e tt loose; if a batter pudding, tie it nearly close; apple and gooseberry pudding, etc., should be tied quite close. When you _ make a batter pudding first mix the flour well with milk, and stir in the other LrediLts by degrees; you will then have it smooth without lumps. Stfain the eggs when they are beaten up. Be sure the water boils when you put your pudding in, that it keeps boiling all the time, and is always LveLd with^ter; you should also move it about two or three times