GUWE FOR PRAYER, ETC. 529 When is the time for prayer ? In every hour, while life is spared to thee— In crowds or solitudes, in joy or care— Thy thoughts should heavenward flee. At home at morn and eve—with loved ones there, Bend thou the knee of prayer!—Btirfiet. A"* ■t'ted prayer is answered prayer. Pra>c. answered when it is accepted, though there be no other effect of It visible. Prayer is not in vain, if the person be accepted, and the service approved. Is it nothing to be admitted to such sweet .ntimate communion with God in such a familiar way; to speak to Him as a man to his friend, as a child to his father? Suppose you should reap no other benefit from prayer, is not here as much as will amount o an answer? If you will not measure the return of your prayers by lower infenor advantages, those are the most blessed returns. It should be more desirable in your account to please Him, than to be happy yourselves. His glory should be more valuable than your salvation, o^ all the means that tend to it. And such society with Him should be esteemed the first-fruits of heaven. Yet these are the privileges of every accepted prayer,_ and therefore, if it be accepted, though it obtain nothing more, it is abundantly answered.—Clarksojt. ‘always to pray, and not to faint.’—(Luke xYiii. !•) Prayer may be unintermitted, and yet be faint This may flow from several causes: from physical depression, from mental distraction from inability or indifference. One prevalent cause is a doubt o^cZ produced by a delay in answering. Christ teaches a persevering urgency by the parable of the unjust judge, who was stirred to aid thf cause simply by her ‘continual coming.’ For if such an one can be moved by importunateness, much more that God of grace, who ready to give thm we to ask, and never can fail His chosen! O merciful Lord Christ, who art the just judge of the earth helo me to maintain towards Thee that imnnrhinof., ^ r ^ Thou Thyself commandest; and cause Te so of prayer, which that in me Thou findest faith when Thou comest^o tlm taiTe of h'’ sustaining grace.’-Z^>r^ Kinloch. ' ^