HOUSEHOLD RECIPES. 475 in the gutta-percha paper most consolingly. It confines the damp within the wall at least, and compels it to evaporate externally, if at all; —it thoroughly intercepts, if it cannot cure, a great evil, and will no doubt be in extensive use, till all men are too sensible to have a damp corner in a house. To cement Broken China.—Beat lime into the most impalpable powder, sift it through fine muslin; then tie some into a thin muslin j put on the edges of the broken china some white of egg, then dust some lime quickly on the su7ne, and unite them exactly. Polishing Paste for Tins, etc.—2d. of hartshorn, 2d. oil of thyme, 2d. rotten-stone, 2d. soft soap. Pour a pint of boiling water over the soft soap and rotten-stone; and when cold, add the hartshorn and oil of thyme. To clean the back of the Grate, the inner Hearth, and the fro7its of Cast- Iron Stoves.—Boil about a ^ of a lb. of the best black lead, with a pint of small beer, and a bit of soap the size of a walnut. When that is melted, dip a painter’s brush, and wet the grate, having first brushed off all the soot and dust; then take a hard brush, and rub it till of a beautiful briskness. Or, To clean Cast-Iron, to Black Hearths.—Mix black lead and whites of eggs well-beaten together; dip a painter’s brush, and wet all over, then rub it bright with a hard brush. To take out Mildew.—Mix soft soap with starch powdered, half as much salt, and the juice of a lemon; lay on the part of both sides with a painter’s brush. Let it lie on the grass day and night till the stain comes out. To take the Black off the bright Bars of Polished Stoves.—Rub them well with some of the following mixture on a piece of broad cloth; when the dirt is removed, wipe them clean, and polish with glass, 7iot sand- paper. The mixture:—Boil slowly i lb. of soft soap in 2 quarts of water, to one. Of this jelly take 3 or 4 spoonfuls, and mix to a con- sistence with emery, No. 3. To re77iove Fruit or Vinegar Stams from K7iives.—'K\Ri the blades before cleaning with raw potato. Washmg, its labour dimmished greatly (invaluable).—Pour upon ^ a lb. of soda 2 quarts of water in an earthenware pan; take ^ a Ib.^ of soap, shred fine; put it into a saucepan with 2 quarts of cold water • stand It on a fire till it boils; and when perfectly dissolved and boilino-" add to it the former. Mix it well, and let it stand till cold, when it 1ms the appearance of a strong jelly. Let the linen be soaked in water the seams and any other dirty part rubbed in the usual way, and remain till the following morning. Get your copper ready, and add to the water about a pint basin full of the above preparation; when lukewarm put in