i6 prelude of mottoes. * Hers was a gracious and a gentle house, Rich in obliging nice observances, And famed ancestral hospitality. A cool repose lay grateful thro’ the place ; And pleasant duties (promptly, truly done. And every service moved by hidden springs Sped with intelligence) went smoothly round.'—Thomas Woolner. * Blessing she is : God made her so. And deeds of week-day holiness Fall from her, noiseless as the snow; Nor hath she ever chanced to know That aught were easier than to bless.’—J. R. Lowell. ‘ Her voice was sweet. And tuned to music, bearing with it a charm.’—Barry Cornwall. ‘ When she spoke. Such a becoming diffidence adorn’d The accents of her voice, as seem'd to say She fear’d her words might wound that modesty In whose defence her trembling tongue pronounced ’eui. In gentle, yet in most persuasive sort.’—Beller. ‘ A lively smile, that sent This silent speech in sunshine to his heart.’—Wiffen. • She will be herself in all changes of fortune; neither blown up by prosperity, nor broken with adversity. You will find in her an even, cheerful, good-humoured friend, and an agreeable companion for life. She wiU infuse knowledge into your children with their milk, and from their infancy train them up to wisdom. Whatever company you are engaged in, you will long to be at home ; and retire with delight from the society of men into the bosom of one who is so dear, so accomplished, and so amiable. If she touches her lute, or sings to it any of her own compositions, her voice will soothe you in your solitude, and sound more sweetly in your ear than that of the nightingale. You will spend with pleasure whole days and nights in her conversation, and be for ever finding out new beauties in her discourse. She wiU keep your mind in perpetual serenity, restrain its mirth from being dissolute, and prevent its melancholy from being painfuL’—Sir T. More. ' We do not call a woman’s perfection manliness. We do not think that woman will ever find her crown—though she may seek it—in quitting her privacy, and usurping the functions of statesmen, of orators, of professional workmen. We incline to think that, in grasping at power, she will lose influence ; and that, though the novelty may dazzle for a moment, in the end the performance will disappoint the promise.’—Rev. C. J. Vaughan, D.D. ' Come near me, wife ; I fare the better far. For the sweet food of thy divine advice; Let no man value at a little price A virtuous woman’s counsel. Her wing’d spirit Is feather’d oftentimes with heavenly words. And, like her beauty, ravishing and pure.’—Chapmai*.