256 THINGS A LADY WOULD LUCE TO KNOW. sprinkling of salt and soluble cayenne, will be found a very delight- ful dish. 4. Lemon Cheesecakes.—To ^ lb. of butter put a lb. of loaf sugar broken into small pieces, 6 eggs, leaving out 2 whites, the rind of 3 lemons and the juice; put them all into a pan, and let them simmer over the fire until the sugar is dissolved, and it begins to thicken like honey. ^Vhen cold, put it into sweetmeat pots for use; cover with brandy-paper. When made into cheesecakes, add grated sweet biscuits. SEPTEMBER 2. ‘ Seven hours to work, to soothing slumber seven, Tm to the world, and all to Heaven.'—Sir W. Jones. 1. Mock Turtle Soup. 2. Brown Minced Veal. 3. Vegetables. 4; Carrot Pudding. I. Mock Turtle Soup.—Have a calf’s head with the skin on; let it be nicely cleansed from hair. Saw the head in two, take out the brains, chop off the nostril-bones, and put the head into a, pan of lukewarm water with a little salt to draw out the blood; let it soak for an hour or two, then pour off the water, fill up with fresh, and wash it clean. Put it into a pot that will hold it conveniently; cover it well with clean water, and set it on to boil; take off all the scum carefully, and boil gently until tender; but it must not be too much done, as it has to be Liled again in the soup. Take all the meat from the bones, and cut it into pieces three-quarters of an inch square ; peel and trim the tongue, and cut it into pieces the same size. Place the whole on a dish, and put it in the larder until wanted. r , e -c If the head is large, take 2 knuckles of veal and a leg of beef; it small, or only half a head is required, a knuckle of veal and a shin o beef will be enough, and a knuckle or two of ham. Rub the bottom o a large stewpan or a stock-pot well over with butter. Cut the ham into thin slices and place it in the stewpan; on this put the veal, and the the beef cut small, with the trimmings of the head and an proceed as for brown consommk, using the liquor in which t e was boiled to moisten it with; let the meat be well ^ water if there is not sufficient broth for this purpose. Wh^ f ^ scummed, add a bunch of turtle herbs, viz. :-marjoram and b^sil (these must predominate), a little thyme -d 'vm“ ^