T///NGS A LADY WOULD LUCE TO LCJVOW. Spitting Blood.—^Three tea-spoonfuls of sage juice in a little honey. A Brtiise.—Apply a plaster of chopped parsley mixed with butter. To prevent Swelling from a Bruise.—Immediately apply a cloth five or six times doubled, dipt in cold water, and re-dipt when it grows warm. To cure a Swelling from a Bruise.—Foment it half an hour (morning and evening) with cloths dipt in water as hot as you can bear, or a bruised onion. For a Cough.—Drink a pint of cold water when you get into bed. The Cramp.—Be electrified through the part which uses to be affected, or hold a roll of brimstone in your hand. A Cut.—Bind on toasted cheese. Deafness.—Be electrified through the ear, and use the cold bath. An intermitting Fever.—Drink warm lemonade in the beginning of every fit. To draw out Thorns, Splinters, etc.—Turpentine spread on wash leather. When you can't Sleep (Vigilia).—Take a grain or two of camphor before getting into bed. Ulcer.—Foment morning and evening with a decoction of walnut leaves, and bind the leaves on. Inflamed Uvula.—Touch it frequently with a brush steeped in camphorated spirits of wine. Relaxed Uvula.—Bruise the veins of a cabbage leaf, and lay it hot on the crown of the head; repeat, it needed, in two hours. Warts.—Rub them daily with a radish when in season, or with the juice of marigold flowers. Weak Ankles.—Hold them in cold water a quarter of an hour, morning and evening. To cure Night Perspirations.—Drink a gill of warm milk at bed-time in bed. To prevent the Toothache.—Rinse your mouth well in cold water every morning, and rinse well after every meal when practicable. All rough and cutting powders destroy the teeth, so do all conwion tinctures. Sweetmeats are apt to hurt the teeth, if the mouth be not rinsed after- wards. Cracking nuts and biting off thread often cracks and chips the enamel. Constant use of toothpick is bad. Whe7i m Extreme Thirst.—Drink spring water, in which a little sal prunella is dissolved. RULES FOR A SICK ROOM. I. A sick room should be kept very sweet and airy. If the weather is warm enough, let the door or window be open; if cold, let there be a small fire. The chimney should never be stopped up.