BILL OF FARE FOR MARCH. 97 them with pepper and salt, and put a good piece of fresh butter with pepper and salt in their bellies; lay them in the dish; the necks, gizzards, livers, pinions, and hearts place between, with the yolk of a hard-boiled egg and a beafsteak in the middle; put in as much water as will almost fill the dish; lay on the top crust, and bake it well. It is a great im- provement to stuff the pigeons with forcemeat, very highly seasoned, and to lay forcemeat-balls round inside the dish. 3. Cabinet Pudding.—Over 6 spongecakes pour sufficient sherry to soak them thoroughly; meanwhile beat up 6 new-laid eggs with a quart of new milk, sweetening with pounded loaf sugar. Put your cakes into the custard without beating them together, and turn the whole into a mould or basin, previously well buttered; tie a paper over the top, and steam the pudding for an hour. For sauce, beat up the yolks of eggs and sherry; heat them over the fire, not allowing them to boil, but keep whisking them all the time. Pour this over the pudding. march is. ‘ A harder lesson to learne continence In joyous pleasure than in grievous /azw.’—SPENSEE. T. Irish Pike. 2. Rabbit Pie, 3. Potatoes. 4. Norfolk Dumplings. 1. Irish Pike.—Mt^x the pike has been carefully cleaned, fill the belly with the same kind of stuffing you would prepare for roast veal, and this by two or three stitches may be prevented from falling out. If you attempt to roast it, the weight of the body is apt to separate it from the head, by which it is hung; to prevent this, bake. 2. Rabbit Pie—and cut into joints a couple of rabbits, pop up the livers very fine, and add to them \ lb. of fat bacon boiled, enough soluble cayenne and powdered mace to cover a shilling a spoonful of salt, ffie leaves of \ dozen sprigs of parsley, and a shalS finely chopped; mix these well together, and lay them at the bottom of the dish; place the joints over the forcemeat, pour in 2 table-spoonfuls of ham extract, and fill up with veal stock; cover with puff paste and bake for an hour and a half. This pie should be eaten hot 4. Norfolk Dumplings.-Hjk^ \ pint of milk, 2 eggs, and a little salt- make it into a batter with flour. Have ready a clean saucepan of boiling water, into which drop the batter. Let the water boil fast and two or three ininutes will boil them enough; then throw them into a pve to dram the water from them, turn them into a dish, and stir a lump of butter among them. Eat them hot “ G