THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 522 going to learn Italian—I am going to visit a poor neighbour.’ These, and ten thousand other ‘goings’ with the addition of the word ‘just’ before them, are words which form a network of delusions by which hundreds of well-intentioned young persons are completely entangled. ‘ I am just going to do this or that good work,’ sounds so much like ‘ I am really doing it,’ that the conscience is satisfied for the moment; yet how vast is the difference between these two expressions when habit has fixed them upon the character! To the same class of persons who habitually say, ‘ I am going,’ rather than ‘ I am doing,’ belong those who seldom know what they really are about; who, coming into a room for a particular purpose, and finding a book there by chance, open it, and sit down to read for half an hour or an hour, believing all the while that they are going to do the thing they first intended ; or who, setting out to walk for the benefit of their health, drop in upon a pleasant acquaintance by the way, still thinking they are going to walk, until the time for doing so has expired, when they return home, with cold feet and aching heads, half fancying that they have really walked, and disappointed that exercise has produced no better effect. Young persons are often beguiled into the dangerous habit of being a little too late, by the apparent unimportance of each particular trans- gression of the kind during the season of youth. If, for instance, they are a little too late for breakfast, the matron of the family commences operations without them, and they can easily gain time upon some of the senior members. At the dinner-hour it is the same. They have only to calculate upon a few impatient words and a few angry looks ; and it is not the least unfavourable feature of their case, that to such looks and words they become so accustomed as scarcely to heed them, nor is it often that they bring any more serious consequences upon themselves by their delay, because the young are generally so kindly assisted and cared for by their friends, that by a long, and patient, and often-repeated process of helping, urging, and entreating, they are, for the most part, got ready for every important occasion, or, in other words, are seldom left behind. The cleverness of the hand, though almost entirely neglected in modern education, except as relates to practice on the keys of the piano, is a qualification which, while it takes nothing away from the charm of feminine delicacy, imparts the additional charm of perpetual cheerfulness, added to a capability of general usefulness, and a con- sequent readiness for action whenever occasion may require our services. If I were asked which of the three qualities—cleverness, learning, or knowledge—was most valuable in a woman, and supposing all to have an equal accompaniment of good sense, good feeling, and good principle, I believe I should answer in favour of the first, provided the