CONFECTIONERY, CAKES, ANE> PRESERVES. 465 Lcmofi Sponge.—One oz. of isinglass in a pint of boiling water; when dissolved, strain it; add the juice of 2 or 3 lemons, ^ a lb. of fine silted sugar. Whisk forty minutes, and put in a shape. Savoy Biscuits.—Beat up a dozen eggs; add f of a lb. of finely- powdered white sugar, and the same weight of sifted flour; mix these well together. Lay thin paper upon iron plates, and place the batter, with a tea-spoon, about four inches long and one broad, keeping each separate ; just before putting them into the oven strew powdered sugar over them. The paper, which will adhere to the backs of the biscuits, is easily removed with cold water and a soft brush. Rice Cake.—Beat up 9 eggs, then mix 6 oz. of ground rice, 6 oz. of flour, I of a lb. of white sugar in powder, and ^ an oz. of carraway seed. These ingredients may be veiy well mixed, then placed in a tin, and baked in a quick oven. Sa//y Lunn Cake.—Put a pint of boiling milk into a pan, and when it has become lukewarm, pour half a tumblerful of yeast upon it; stir well, and add as much flour as will form a good stiff batter; cover the pan with a cloth, and place it before the fire for two hours. Beat up 4 eggs with 2 oz. of powdered sugar. After allowing the time specified, mix a of a lb. of butter, the eggs and sugar, with the dough ; let all remain in the pan for half an hour. Divide into cakes; put them on tins, and bake it in a well-heated oven. Cake.—0x1^ lb. of dough, ^ lb. of butter, i lb. of currants, i lb. of loaf sugar, 2 oz. of almonds, 3 oz. of raisins, a A of a nutmeg, allspice and a few cloves, the peel of ^ a lemon, i a glass of wine, ^ a glass of brandy, 6 eggs—beat the yolks and whites separately, \ of an oz. of candied orange and lemon peel. Beat well, and bake in a tin. Pound Cake. Beat a lb. of butter to a cream, and mix with it the Avhites and yolks of 8 eggs beaten apart. Have ready, warm by the fire, a lb. of flour, a lb. of sifted sugar; mix them, and a few cloves, a little nutmeg, and cinnamon in fine powder together; then by degrees work up all the dry ingredients into the butter and eggs. When well beaten, add a glass of wine and some carraways. It must be beaten a full hour. Butter a pan, and bake it a full hour in a quick oven. The above proportions, leaving out 4 oz. of the butter and the same of sugar, make a less luscious, and, to some tastes, a more pleasant one. Sponge Take 4 eggs and put them in the scales; put the same weight of loaf sugar in the other; then take 2 eggs, and have their weight in flour; mix well, and put in tins, covered, if possible and bake in a quick oven. You must beat the whites to a very stiff frotl-L ^