BILL OF BABE FOB AUGUST. 247 AUGUST 2 6, Life's choicest blessings centre all in koine.'—COWPER. 1. Salmon (middle piece). 2. Haricot of Mutton, 3. Vegetables. 4. Lemon Pudding. 1. Salmon {middle piece).—Boil slowly in salt and water. Salmon should be put into warm water, which makes it eat firmer. Boil gently. Serve on a napkin. Sauce: lobster, shrimp, or plain melted butter, and parsley. 2. Haricot of Mutton.—Make a good gravy by boiling the rough bits and trimmings, seasoning it with pepper and salt and a little ketchup. Strain, and add carrots, parsnips, onions, and celery, previously boiled tender slice them in; then pepper and salt your mutton, broil it brown, put it into the gravy along with the vegetables, and stew all together for about ten minutes or a quarter of an hour. Garnish with small pickles. 4. Lemon Pudding.—Beat the yolks of 4 eggs j add 4 oz. of white sugar, rubbing some of the lumps on the rind of a lemon to take out the essence; boil the rind till it is soft, changing the water to free it from bitterness; then beat it in a mortar with the juice of a lemon 3 mix all with 4 or 5 oz. of butter melted. Put a paste into a shallow dish, mark the edges, put the mixture into it, and bake it. Slide it carefully out of the dish upon another, before sending it to table. * Dost thee love me ? Keep me then still worthy to be loved. ’—SiR Philip Sydney. 1. Boiled Brill.—Clean the fish, cut off the fins, and rub over with a little lemon-juice to preserve its whiteness. Put it in water (cold) suffi- cient to cover it (having ^ lb. of salt and a little vinegar to each gallon of water), and bring it gradually to boil. Simmer very gently till done, which will be in about ten minutes; if a small fish, from the time the water begins to simmer—if the brill is thick, it will take longer; but the cook must remember that all fish must be thoroughly dressed. Place a hot napkin on the dish, and garnish with cut lemon, parsley, horseradish; and, when there is lobster sauce, a little of the coral sprinkled over the fish. 2. Boast Foivl—When the fowls are trussed for roasting, singe them carefully and wipe them clean; put a piece of buttered paper over the AUGUST 2 7. 1. Boiled Brill. 2. Roast Fowl. 3. Vegetables. 4. Patty-pan Puddings.