RECEIPTS FOR SAUCES. 451 Tlie quantity of vinegar (whether less or more) must be decided by the taste, as the sauce, though it should be sharp, must not be too acid. Plum Pudding Sauce.—Two oz. very good butter, i wine-glassful of brandy, i of Madeira, and pounded sugar to taste. Put in a basin the pounded sugar with part of the brandy and the butter; let it stand till dissolved, then add the rest of the brandy and the Madeira. Serve in a tureen, or pour it over the pudding. Rimolade.—Chop very fine a shalot and 4 or 5 sprigs of parsley. Beat up, quickly, the yolks of a couple of eggs, and on them pour Florence oil till the mixture be as thick as new butter. Add a tea-spoonful of French vinegar, a salt-spoonful of salt, another of soluble cayenne, and then stir in the shalot and parsley. You will find your trouble well rewarded. Sago Sauce, delicious for various Puddings, as Bread, Raisins, Rice, —Ingredients : One table-spoonful of sago, 1 pint of water, ^ pint of port or sherry, the rind and juice of i small lemon, sugar to taste, a little pounded cinnamon, when the flavour is liked. Mode.—Wash the sago in 2 or 3 waters, then put it into a saucepan with the water and lemon-peel; let it simmer gently by the side of the fire for ten minutes, then take out the lemon peel, add the remaining ingredients, give one boil, and serve. Be particular to strain the lemon- juice before adding it to the sauce. Shrimp Sauce.—The flavour of this is much improved by boiling the shells and pea, after the fish have been picked, straining the water off, and using it with an equal proportion of milk, to warm up the butter and flour. The shrimps will require only two minutes on the fire. Spice Mixture, delicious for Steaks, Chops, or Gravies.—Pound the following ingredients, mix them and blend thoroughly together Three drachms of black pepper, 3 drachms of ginger, 3 drachms of cinnamon, ^ oz. of cayenne, ^ oz. of mace, 7 cloves, i oz. of grated nutmeg, i-^ oz. of white pepper. The quantity of cayenne may be increased according to the taste. Put all into a very dry bottle for use. The Indian receipt for Curry Powder.—One oz. of coriander seed, i oz. of poppy seed, i oz. of turmeric, | oz. of ginger, \ a drachm’of cinnamon, 8 grains of mustard seed, | oz. of red chillies. Pound all the above ingredients to a fine powder j put them into a bottle corked closely down. Pa,rsley Fried for gamishing.-^nsh, pick, and dry some youna parsley thoroughly m a cloth, and if you have not a ‘ wire basket ’ for i? throw It into a frying-pan with boiling lard or clarified dripping, and when crisp, take it out with a slice; dry it before the fire : it will be ready for use when thoroughly crisp. ^ eood).-WelI-p„u„d and mix the following ingredients together, and place in the sun, or before the