4o6 things a lady WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. from the water in a colander, and have ready a nice clean dry cloth, over which put 2 good handfuls of flour. Toss in the whitebait, shake them lightly in the cloth, and put them in a wicker sieve to take away the superfluous flour. Throw them into a pan of boiling lard, very few at a time, and let them fry till of a whitey-brown colour (about three minutes). Directly they are done they must be taken out and laid before the fire for a minute or two on a sieve reversed, covered with blotting-paper to absorb the fat. Dish them on a hot napkin ; arrange the fish very high in the centre, and sprinkle a little salt over the whole. 4. Vea/ and Ham Cutlets, with Tartar Sauce.—Pound | of a lb. of cold roast veal and a lb. of lean ham or tongue; season with a salt-spoonful of pepper, a. ^ of a. grain of cayenne, the eighth part of a nutmeg grated, ^ a mustard-spoonful of made mustard, a salt-spoonful of anchovy sauce, the grated rind of half a lemon, and the juice ; add a table-spoonful of veal gravy, 2 oz. of dissolved butter; mix well, and form the paste into neat cutlets; dip each into dissolved butter, and dredge them with dried flour; then dip them into beaten egg, and strew them with fine crumbs; do this twice or thrice. Place them on a tin dish, with a piece of butter the size of a nut on each, and bake in a quick oven for a quarter of an hour. Beat the hard yolks of 3 eggs to a powder, with ^ a salt- spoonful of salt, a salt-spoonful of pepper, and a salt-spoonful of flour of mustard; beat the yolk of an egg, and stir it into the rest; add, drop by drop, 3 table-spoonfuls of salad oil, then a salt-spoonful of tarragon vinegar and 2 dessert-spoonfuls of white vinegar; beat it till in a thick cream; add a tea-spoonful of finely-chopped chives, or shalot and gherkin if chives are not to be had. Place the cutlets round the dish, and the cold sauce in the centre. Note.—The sauce should be made two hours before serving, and put in a cool place. Cream may be used instead of oil, if preferred. 5. Broiled Sheep's Kidneys.—Take off the skin and cut the kidneys in half; put them on an iron skewer; dip them into oiled butter; sprinkle them slightly with pepper and salt; put them on a gridiron, over a bright fire, and broil for eight or ten minutes; withdraw the skewer, and serve on a very hot dish. 6. Rissoles of Fowl.—Cut up about ^ lb. of cold fowl; put the bones and trimmings into a saucepan, with a piece of garlic the size of a pea, an inch of thin lemon peel, an inch of laurel leaf, and a pint of stock or water; boil fast till reduced to a gill of strong gravy, then strain. Chop the fowl and 2 oz. of ham or tongue till quite fine; season with a salt-spoonful of white pepper, a salt-spoonful of chopped parsley, a salt-spoonful of salt, the eighth part of a nutmeg grated, and a dessert- spoonful of baked flour; stir in sufficient gravy to moisten the meat; put it into a basin, and let it stand three hours to become firm. Make