BTLL OF FARE FOR NOVEMBER. 331 3. Apple Charlotte.—Any number of rennet apples you desire to use; peel, cut into quarters, take out the cores. Cut the quarters into slices ; let them cook over a brisk fire, with butter, sugar, and powdered cinna- mon, until they are tender; add boiling cream or milk to some white bread-crumbs; when cold, use the yolks of 4 eggs, and sugar to taste ; bake it half an hour in puff paste. NOVEMBER 2S. * Admonish your fiiends privately, but praise them openly.'—PuBLiUS Syrus. 1. Smelts. I 3. Plum-Pudding. 2. Boiled Rabbits. I 4, Vegetables. 1. Smelts.—They should not be washed more than is necessary to clean them, and must be very fresh. Dry them in a cloth, lightly flour them, but shake it off. Dip them into plenty of egg, then into bread- crumbs grated fine, and plunge them into a good pan of boiling lard; let them continue gently boiling, and a few minutes will make a bright yellow brown. Put them in a drainer before the fire; but take care not to ‘ake off the light roughness of the crumbs, or the beauty of the fish will be spoiled. They are often used for garnishing. Serve with melted butter. 2. Boiled Rabbits.—Wash them well in warm water; they may be stuffed or not, according to taste. When stuffing is required, make it of crumbs of bread, suet, parsley, and onions, well chopped, and pepper and salt; moisten with milk and egg. Put this into the belly and sew it up neatly. Truss in the same manner as roast hare ; put into boiling water for two minutes, reduce as before directed, and boil slowly for an hour. The sauce to be made of boiled onions, milk, melted butter, and flour, with pepper and salt, which pour over the rabbit when dished. This is called rabbit smothered in onions. When two rabbits are dished together, always lay the head of one in a contrary direction to that of the other. 3. Plum-Pudding.—oz. of raisins, 6 oz. of currants, 6 oz. of bread- crumbs, 6 oz. of suet, half a nutmeg, a little lemon-peel, 5 eggs, half a wine-glass of brandy. Mix these ingredients together, and put the pudding into a mould, and boil it.