314 THINGS A LADY WOULD LLKE TO LCNOW. and cover it with some good gravy. Just before serving, add a pint of green peas, then cucumbers cut into slices, the carrots and turnips cut into wheels, and the lettuces into 4 pieces, previously stewed in a little broth, and let them simmer with the veal for ten or twelve minutes. Dish up the meat, pour the vegetables and sauce over it, and garnish with the quarters of lettuce and forcemeat-balls. 3. Apple Fritters.—Beat and strain the yolks of 7 eggs and the whites of 3 ; mix into them a pint of new milk, a little grated nutmeg, a pinch of salt, and a glass of brandy. Well beat the mixture, and then add gradually sufficient flour to make a thick batter. Pare and core 6 large apples, cut them in slices about a quarter of an inch thick, sprinkle pounded sugar over them, and set them by for an hour or more; dip each piece of apple in the batter, and fry them in hot lard about six minutes ; the lard should not be made too hot at first, but must become hotter as they are frying. Serve on a napkin, with sifted sugar over them. NOVEMBER 4. ‘ Moderation is the silken string running through the pearl chain of all virtties.'— Fuller. 1. Whitings. 3- Alice Fudding. 2. Stewed Pigeons. 4- Vegetables. 2. Stewed Pigeons.—and wash 6 pigeons, put them into a stew- pan with a pint of good gravy, an onion cut small, the shalots, a bunch of sweet herbs, a pint of mushrooms cut into small pieces, and a little pepper, salt, and half a blade of mace. Let the whole stew gently until tender, and add the wine just before you take the stewpan from the fire. Put the pigeons on a dish, brown the sauce, and pour it with the mushrooms over the pigeons. Stew over the whole some grated bread, and brown it with a salamander. 3. Alice Pudding. — Make a good custard with five well-beaten eggs, half a pint of cream, and the same quantity of milk, or milk alone; add I of an oz. of isinglass, and flavour it with a small piece of shred vanilla tied in muslin. When cold, stir in 2 dessert-spoonfuls of brandy. Have ready any ornamental mould, dip it in water, and fill the pattern at the bottom with custard; then place in slices of spongecake in layers with raspberry jam between each, and fill up the mould with the re- mainder of the custard; put it in a cold place until the next da), or ice it. Turri it out, and ornament it with crystallized fruit or jelly.