2 76 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. SEPTEMBER 2 4. ‘ Lave is an old story, yet remains ever new'—Heinrich Heine. 1. Roast Leg of Mutton. I 3. Vegetables. 2. Grouse Pie. 1 4- Dutch Pudding. 1. Roast Leg of Mutton.—Allow a quarter of an hour per lb., and roast by a brisk fire. One of the most savoury sauces you can use with roast mutton is made by putting 2 glasses of port wine, one of Reading sauce, and a tea-spoonful of garlic vinegar into a small saucepan, and pouring the contents over the joint just before serving. 2. Grouse Pie.—Line a pie-dish with the steak cut into small pieces. If the grouse be small, lay them in whole ; if large, cut them' into joints. Season highly with salt, cayenne and black pepper; pour in the broth, and cover with a puff paste; brush the crust over with the yolk of an egg, and bake from three-quarters to one hour. If the grouse are large, the backbones and trimmings will make the gravy, by steAving them with an onion, a blade of mace, and a little sherry. This should be poured in after the pie is baked. 4. Dutch Pudding.—Melt i lb. of butter in l pint of milk ; mix 2 lbs. of flour, 8 eggs well beaten, and 4 spoonfuls of yeast; set it before the fire to rise for an hour; add i lb. of currants and ^ lb. of sugar. -0— SEPTEMBER 2S. ‘ Discharge aright The simple dues with which each day is rife.'—Schiller. 1. Stewed Eels. 2. Cold Roast Mutton. 3. Beetroot Salad. 4. Mashed Potatoes. 5. Ground Rice. I. Stewed Eels.—’Stsva. and cut the fish into lengths of about two inches; fill a frying-pan with fresh parsley, and place the eels upon it over a slow fire. Extract as much of the oily fat from the fish as pos- sible, keeping them turned, and having sufficient parsley to prevent their touching the pan. Place them on a slanting board, to dram for a couple of hours. Have ready some rich beef gravy, into which put 2 table-spoonfuls of mixed sweet herbs in powder, 2 glasses of sherr}', a third of soluble cayenne pepper to three-fourths of a spoonful of salt, and a dozen small silver onions ; let the fish stew in these ingredients over a slow fire for an hour. Strain the gravy through a sieve; should