313 BILL OF FARE FOR NO VEMBER. 3. Vermicelli Budding.—Wash 3 oz. of vermicelli and put it into a saucepan with 3 cupfuls of milk; boil it for a quarter of an hour, then add 2 oz. of butter. Well beat 3 eggs with 3 spoonfuls of powdered sugar, and when the vermicelli is quite cold stir in the eggs and sugar. Bake it one hour, and serve with brandy sauce. —0— NOVEMBER 2. ‘ Endeavottr to have as little to do 'with thy affection and passions as thou canst, ana labour to thy power to make thy body eonUnt to go of thy soul's errattds.'—^Jeremy Tavlor. 1. Baked Haddocks. 3. Aldershot Pudding. 2. Veal Olives. 4. Vegetables. 2. Veal Olives.—Some slices of veal, a slice or two of fat bacon, some forcemeat, a shalot, cayenne pepper, egg, some brown gravy. Cut some thin slices of veal rather wide, but'not more than 3 or 4 inches long; lay a very thin slice of fat bacon on each, then a layer of force- meat, a little shalot sliced as thin and fine as possible, with pepper, salt, and cayenne •, roll them round, and fasten each securely with a small skewer; brush them over with egg, and fry them a nice brown. Boil a few mushrooms, pickled or fresh, with half a pint, or as much as your olives will require, of brown gravy, pour it round them, and garnish with egg-balls. 3. Aldershot Fuddmg.—Three-quarters of a lb. of bread-crumbs, 10 oz. of suet, I lb. of fine moist sugar, 2 lemons, 2 oz. of candied orange- peel. Mix the bread-crumbs with the suet chopped as fine as you can, the grated lemon-peel, the candied orange or lemon cut very small; add the sugar and juice of the lemons, grate in a little nutmeg, and bake them in small buttered moulds for about three-quarters of an hour. When done, turn them out on a dish, and pour some lemon, or any sweet sauce you may prefer, over them. NOVEMBER 3. ‘ Ah, how mueJi suffering might be spared sometimes by a single abstinence, by a sinole No, aiiswered tn a fie}'ce tone, to the voice of seduction !’ Lavater. 1. Fried Soles. 2. Haricot of Veal. 3. Apple Fritters. 4. Vegetables. 2. Ilaricot of Veal.—Cut off the bones from the best end of a neck veal quite short, but leave the neck whole; nut all into a stewpan.