BILL OF FARE FOR OCTOBER. 297 tlie dissection, a spoonful of salt and \ a one of soluble cayenne and pounded mace, a few leaves of mixed sweet herbs j add to these 4 silver onions, a dozen cloves, a gill of port wine, a pint of spring water, and a table-spoonful of currant jelly. Put all into a jug with a close- fitting top, and place it in a saucepan of boiling water for three hours. Lay the meat on a dish before the fire, strain the liquor, boil it up, and pour it over the hare just before sending it to table. 3. Apple Fritters.—Beat and strain the yolks of 7 eggs and the whites of 3 ; mix into them a pint of new milk, a little grated nutmeg, a pinch of salt, and a glass of brandy. Well beat the mixture, and then add gradually sufficient flour tb make a thick batter. Pare and core 6 large apples, cut them in slices about a | of an inch thick, fry them in the batter till nicely brown, then strew some white sugar over them, and serve them hot. OCTOBER 18. Anxiety is the poison of human life. It is the parent of many sins, and of more miseries.'—Blair. 1. Fried Soles. 3. Veal and Ham Pie. 2. Roast Hare. 4. Vegetables. 1. Fried Soles.—Scrape, but do not skin them; wash them and wipe them dry; dip them in beaten egg, and then strew them over with bread-crumbs. Have a pan of fat, and be sure it boils before you put in the soles. Fry them of a light brown, and turn them but once. Lay them on a napkin for the fat to drain off, and serve them on a fish-plate, with plain melted butter in a boat. 2. Roast Hare.—A hare may be rendered much easier to carve, and far more plump in appearance, by taking out the bones of the back and thighs, or of the former only. In removing this, a very sharp knife should be used, and much care will be required to avoid cutting through the skin just over the spine, as it adheres closely to the bone. Nearly double the usual quantity of forcemeat must be prepared; with this restore the legs to their original shape, and fill the body, which should be previously lined with delicate slices of the nicest bacon, of which the rind and edges have been trimmed away. Sew up the hare; truss it as usual; lard it or not, as is most convenient; keep it well basted with butter while roasting (it takes from one hour and a quarter to one and three-quarters), and serve with the ordinary sauce. When the taste is in favour of a sweet sauce, melt 2 table-spoonfuls of fine red currant jelly in i a pint of rich brown gravy. To remove the backbone, clear from it first the flesh in the inside • lay this back to the right and left, from the centre of the bones to the