BILL OF FARE FOR SEPTEMBER. 257 cut into dice, 5 or 6 onions cut small, and a bunch of turtle herbs for the stock, and some mushroom trimmings. Let the whole sweat over a slow fire, stirring it occasionally, to prevent burning, until the onions are done; then stir in sufficient flour to make a nice roux, and moisten it gradually with the stock, that the sauce may be smooth; add sufficient to make the sauce rather thinner than melted butter; let it simmer by the side of the stove to throw up the grease, which skim off carefully. Pass the sauce through a tammy into a clean soup-pot; add the head, with some blanched forcemeat and egg-balls; simmer gently until the meat is well done; season it with salt and a little cayenne pepper; add the juice of 2 lemons. Add a pint of warmed Madeira or sherry wine when served. Note.—The flavour of the herbs will be best obtained by putting them into a separate stewpan, with a portion of the stock, to digest at the corner of the stove, instead of putting them in with the butter. 2. Brown Minced Veal.—Cut the meat off the bones, and put them into a saucepan with a quart of water; stew till you have about ^ pint of liquor left. Whilst the gravy is drawing, chop the meat, both fat and lean, small; season \vith pepper and salt, the juice of a lemon, and a little peel as before directed; add a tea-spoonful of mushroom ketchup; warm it up in the same manner as the white mince, and garnish with sippets. 4. Caj'rot Pudding.—Stone J lb. of raisins, and mix them with the same quantity of dried currants and chopped suet. Scrape 4 oz. of carrot and the same of potato, and mix with a dessert-spoonful of sugar, a little salt and nutmeg; boil in a basin four hours. Dish and serve hot, with brandy sauce. I. Chicken Gravy Soup.—While your chickens are roasting, baste them thoroughly. When ready to dish up, take out the chickens from_ the pan in which they have been cooking; pour into the pan pints of boiling hot water, and stir well all the drippings with the water ; set it on the stove or range ; make a little flour thickening and pour It into the gravy; boil it up once. Have ready the giblets and iver, which you must have previously cooked tender in water and SEPTEMBER 3. ‘ Let constant vigilance thy footsteps guide. And -wary circumspection guard thy side. Then shalt thou walk unharmed.'—Gav. 1. Chicken Gravy Soup. 2. Roast Fowls. 3. Vegetables. 4. Victoria Pudding.