478 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. ought to be sparingly used on such occasions, and an hour or two after eating: otherwise the motion of the carriage prevents digestion, and induces feverishness. The fruit, taken by way of vegetables, supplies in a great measure the place of liquids. The proper and most agree- able mode of refreshing is in small quantities, and frequently; and the only thing to be guarded against is, to leave sufficient appetite for the meals you intend to take where you stop, and this sometimes requires a little judgment and resolution. Some people have a habit, and rather make a boast of it, of travelling long distances without taking anything; but I strongly recommend the basket system, having tried both plans. In public conveyances, I think a sandwich-box might be convenient. One of the greatest annoyances in travelling is continual exposure to imposition; but this may, by good management, be frequently avoided, either altogether or in part, as by bad management it may be greatly increased. There are four kinds of imposers. The first are downright rogues, who make a point of taking the advantage whenever they have the power; but even they have degrees of extortion according to the behaviour of their victims. The second are a sort of good-tempered, easy imposers, who impose as a matter of course, but whom a little good management almost immediately turns from their purpose. They are willing to impose upon you if you are willing to be imposed upon, but otherwise not. On remonstrance, they will pretend they have made a mistake, or that if you are not satisfied, they do not wish to have any dispute. The third will not attempt any imposition unless they are encouraged to it by some foolish display or swagger; nor the fourth, until they are provoked by unreasonableness or discourtesy. My obser- vation tells me there is no preventive against these different kinds of im- position so sure as a certain quiet, composed bearing, indicative at once of self-respect and of consideration for others. I have made many ex- periments in the matter under various circumstances, both in this country and abroad, and the result seems to me to be, that by such behaviour you ensure greater attention at a lower cost than by any other course; and, having adopted such a course, I think that on the Continent you may still be exposed, when actually travelling, to imposition to the extent of about ten per cent, upon your expenditure, to which, for comfort’s sake, and to avoid the chance of being wrong, which frequently happens in small matters, it is wise to submit, without keeping yourself in a constant fever and state of distraction from the objects only worthy of attention. I am speaking now of those who have no, or but little experience; others will be able to protect them- selves to a greater extent. One of the most desirable qualities in travelling, is punctuality or readiness. Without it there is but small satisfaction, either to yourself