352 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 2. Stewed Giblets.—Having scalded and picked them, cut them in pieces, wash them clean, and put them into a saucepan with a piece of scrag of veal j cover them with water, and let them boil up; then take off the scum quite clean, and add 3 onions, 2 turnips, i carrot, and a little thyme and parsley; stew them till they are tender, and strain them through a sieve; wash the giblets clean from the herbs, etc. Now take a piece of butter the size of a walnut, put it into a saucepan with a large spoonful of flour, and stir it about till it is well mixed and smooth; then put in the broth and giblets, stew them for a quarter of an hour, season with salt and a little pepper, and just before you serve them up chop a handful of green parsley, and put it in. Give it a boil up, and serve them in a tureen. 3. Ribs of Beef.—Ribs of beef maybe boned (the butcher will mostly save the cook this trouble), rolled, tied round with a string, and so roasted in a solid lump, which is convenient for carving, and also more presentable cold; but it is questionable whether boned joints of meat are quite so juicy and succulent as those in which the bones are allowed to remain. In the former case, however, the bones render service by helping to make stock broth. 4. Apple Pudding with Cream.—Grate 4 large apples; add ^ lb. of Naples biscuits grated, a little powdered cinnamon, ^ a pint of cream, sugar to taste, a little salt, and 6 eggs well beaten, leaving out half the whites. Bake with a crust round edge of dish; when done, sift powdered sugar over. DECEMBER IS. ‘ Woman's right and proper influence, her legitimate and best power, is that of kind- ness, gentleness, devoted affection. It is like that of the great sun in the heavens, or of the earth on which we live—the influence of attraction ; and this, well andpersevertngly employed, may prove almost, if not altogether, irresistible.'—Charles Cook. 1. Giblet Soup. 3* Ground Rice Cream. 2. Stewed Brisket OF Beef. 4- Vegetables. I. Giblet Soup.—Swan giblets are the best, then goose, turkey, then ducic and fowl. For water birds, the pinion should be chopped in two across, the feet scalded, removing the outer skin and claws. For all, cut the neck into short pieces; split the head, removing the eyes and beak • divide the livers into two, and gizzards, well cleaned and peeled of the hLd, white skin, into 4 pieces. Stew these tender, and then pro- ceed exactly as oxtail. If you make your stock of the bones or remains of poultry, all the better. You may season rather highly with herbs and spice, as there is no fear of overpowering the giblet flavour.