BILL OF FARE FOR MAY. ^A1 be sent to table by having a dozen or so of the young esculents fried in cream until they are of a deep auburn colour. 4. Sweet Omelet.—In half a pint of new milk mix well a table-spoon- ful of fine flour, then whisk together the yolks and whites of four eggs ; add these to the thickened milk. Over a clear fire see that the frying- pan be quite hot, and put into it as much fresh butter as will serve for frying the omelet; about I lb. will be enough. Pour into the boiling butter half the milk and eggs, and, when these are a little set, put four table-spoonfuls of red currant jelly in the centre of the batter; cover the jelly with the remainder; and as soon as the upper portion is fixed, you should send the dish to table. A very few minutes are required for this acceptable and elegant preparation. may 12. Human life is a constant want, and ought to be a constant prayer I S. Osgood. 1. Broiled Shad and Caper Sauce. 2. Stewed Breast of Veal. 3. Vegetables. 4. Gougere au Fromage. I. Broiled Shad and Caper Sauce.—Boil slowly some parsley, to let it become a bad colour; cut, but do not chop it fine; put it to melted butter, with a tea-spoonful of salt and a dessert-spoonful of vineo-ar Boil up, and serve. ^ J- Stewed Breast of Veal.-Fnt the joint into a stewpan two-thirds filled with water, next half a handful of dried marjoram and lemon thyme, and an equal quantity of fresh parsley, 4 small onions, a tea- spoonful of powdered mace, 4 cloves, the peel of a lemon chopped fine, a table-spoonful of mushroom catchup, and a tea-spoonful of salt • let It stew very gently for an hour and three-quarters ; take out the meat' run the gravy through a sieve; and if it is not as thick as you desire’ you may add butter and flour till you have made it of the proper con- sistency ; pour as much as necessary over the joint, and keep the rest Dy, as a good foundation for any made dish of white meat A. Gougere au Fromage.-Fnt into a stewpan three-quarters of a umbler of water, with 3 oz. of fresh butter and a little salt. When the well cooked. Then take the stewpan off the fire, and add to the 3 'Tof Ga ^ thL "■ell