BILL OF FARE FOR AUGUST. r little salt and water into tire dripping-pan, and baste the joint for a short time with it, then use the gravy from the meat itself, basting it every ten minutes. Serve it with gravy poured round it, and currant jelly, separately. The wether leg of mutton is the best for roasting. A leg of mutton, if too large, can be divided, and the knuckle boiled; or, by placing a paste of flour and water over the part cut to keep in the gravy, it cm be roasted, by which means two roast dinners can be had from the one joint. 4. Boiled Lemon Pudding.—Four oz. of suet finely chopped, \ lb. of bread-crumbs, 2 eggs, the juice of a lemon strained, with the yellow rind chopped very fine or grated off, sugar to taste. Boil one hour in a well-buttered mould, and serve with sweet sauce, to which add a little lemon juice and wine. AUGUST 8. ‘ Don't tell me of to-morrow. There is much to do to-day That can 7tever be accomplish'd If we throw the hours away ! Every moment has its duty. Who the ftihire can foretell? Then why defer to-morrcrw What to-day can do as well?'—Eliot. 1. Pea Soup. I 3. Vegetables. 2. Roast Shoulder of Mutton. I 4. Surrey Pudding. 1. Pea Soup. One pint of split peas, 3 quarts of spring water, 6 large onions, outside sticks of 2 heads of celery, i bunch of sweet herbs, 2 carrots, a little dried mint, a handful of spinach, a few bones or tiny pieces of bacon ; pepper and salt to your taste. Boil all these vegetables together till they are quite soft and tender; strain them through a hair sieve, pressing the carrot pulp through it. Then boil the soup well for an hour with the best part of the celery and a tea-spoonful of pepper, add a little dried mint and fried bread, with a little spinach. A few roast-beef bones or a slice of bacon will be an improvement. 2. Roast Shoulder of Mutton.—Time, a quarter of an hour to each lb A shoulder of mutton should not be basted in roasting, but simply rubbed with a little butter. Roast this joint at a sharp, brisk fire. It should be well hung, and served with onion sauce. 4- Stirrey Pudding.—On& quart of milk, 6 oz. of ground rice, 3 e<^gs currants, sugar, and spice to taste. The milk and rice should be botled overnight, and the other ingredients mixed in the next morninm Stir the mixture well before putting it into the oven.