2 73 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. small spongecakes soaked in wine, and fill up the mould with a rich custard. Then butter a piece of paper, put it on the mould, tie it securely over, and boil it. —0- SEPTEMBER 27. ‘ In council, 'tis good to see dangers; and in execution, not to see them unless they art very great.'—Bacon. Savoury Haddock. Roast Goose. Sea Kale. Damson Batter Pudding. 1. Savoury Haddock.—Miex cleaning the interior, dry it with a cloth, and stuff the fish with the same forcemeat you would use for a fillet of veal; tie the tail to the mouth, and place the haddock in a deep pie- dish ; rub it over with flour, and half fill the dish with veal stock; then let it bake in a slow oven for forty minutes. 2. Roast Goose.—Having paid due attention to the cleaning, picking, and singeing of the bird, let the follomng stuffing be prepared Two oz of undressed onion and i of sage leaves must be first chopped small; a salt-spoonful of salt, and a third of that quantity of pepper, must be mixed with 4 oz. of finely-grated crumbs of bread, the whole moistened with the yolk and white of an egg well whisked. In puttmg the stuffing into the bird, give it space wherein to swell, under the action of the fire; when you have put the goose upon the spit, secure the neck and pope’s nose with bvine, to prevent the s^ffing from falling out, and to keep the bird steady. A large goose will require somewhat more than an hour and a halPs roasting. Be sure it be well basted, and sent to table of a rich brown hue, with a boatful of gravy sauce, another of apple sauce, and some newly made mustard. , v 2 Sea Kale.—ThQ roots having been pared, the kale should be washed, tied in a bundle, and put into boiling water into which a couple of table-spoonfuls of salt have been thrown. Ten boiling will be found sufficient. Serve on a toast, and have a boatfu melted butter ready to send to table with it. 4. Datnson Batter Pudding.-'l2c\^ about i or 4 pints of npe daLons, or other plums ; take out the stones and rub them through a sieve ; stir this with the batter, adding about 6 oz. of sugar, pour into a well-buttered basin or mould, tie a floured cloth over, and boil one hour. When done, turn it out of the basin, and' serve with sweet sauca A mature of apple with damson destroys the latter fruit. An excellent tart may be made with Morelia cherne and apples.