167 BILL OF FARE FOR JUNE. done, season with salt and a pinch of sugar. Put a few pieces of bread cut in dice into the tureen, and serve. 3. Sauce to ditto.—Put the peel of a small lemon, cut very thin, into a pint of sweet rich cream, with a sprig of lemon-thyme and 10 white peppercorns. Simmer gently till it tastes well of the lemon; then strain it, and thicken it with lb. of butter, and a dessert-spoonful of flour rubbed in it. Boil it up ; then pour the juice of the lemon strained into it, stirring it well. Dish the chickens, and then mix a little white gravy, quite hot, with the cream, but do not boil them together. Add salt to your taste. 5. Ice Creams and Gooseberry Pie.—UzkQ 2 quarts of fresh milk. Scald the^ milk, stirring in 3 table-spoonfuls of corn starch or arrow- root to give it body. These may be omitted if not at hand. Stir well to keep from burning. Beat up 4 to 8 eggs, according to con- venience or as a rich dish is wanted, and pour the scalding milk on the eggs, stirring well. When cold, add sugar and essence of lemon, or extract of vanilla, to suit the taste. A very little salt also improves it. Pour the cold contents into a deep tin pail or can holding about 3 quarts; put on the cover, and set in an ordinary wooden water pail. Pound up ice to the size of hen’s eggs and less— some of course will be quite fine; pack it round the tin can, mixing in about one pint of either medium or fine salt. Pack this till it reaches nearly to the top of the can containing the mixture to be frozen, but be careful none enters it. Now move the tin can or pail around by means of Its bail, lifting the cover occasionally to scrape off the frozen cream on the inside, so that other portions may come in contact with the freezing surface. From fifteen to twenty minutes will be sufficient, and the dish may be served up at once or set away, without removing from t e wooden pail, in a cool place for several hours, covering with a flannel JUNE 4. ‘ Why ts it so difficult to love wisely, so easy to love too ■well?'—m%% Braddon. 1. Salmon Collared. 2. Boiled Leg of Mutton. 3- Caper Sauce. 4- Summer Pudding, and Sauce TO DITTO. s. Mashed Turnips. to C’^^W.-Split such a part of the fish as may be sufficien whi^ ^ handsome roll, wash and wipe it, and having mixed sail it veryS'^rub k P'PP"’'’ ^^a^tity to seaso! ry hi^h, rub It well inside and out. Then roll it tight and bandag