36o things a lady WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. a spoonful of milk; add ^ lb. of powdered sugar and a flavouring of vanilla. Well-beat all these together, and stir lightly in the whites of 8 eggs whisked to a stiff froth. Put the soitffl'ee in the centre of a dish, and bake it in a moderate oven for a quarter of an hour. When done, sift sugar over it, and serve as quickly as possible. — DECEMBER 23. ‘ Too much sensibility creates unhappiness ; too much insensibility creates crime. ’— Talleyrand. 1. Hare Soup. 3. Omelet Glace. 2. Mutton Steaks. 4. Vegetables. 1. Hare Soup.—Skin and cleanse a hare; cut it into joints, and put into a stewpan with a knuckle of ham at the bottom, cut in slices; two onions cut in slices, a carrot, a bunch of sweet herbs, 7 or 8 cloves, and 2 or 3 blades of mace, and a few whole allspice ; cover with some good beef gravy; take off the scum when it comes to the boil; stew gently until tender, and strain off the broth. Cut the meat from the bones of the back and legs, which cut into small pieces and put aside. Put the rest into the stewpan again; cover with some boiling beef stock, and stew gently until the meat can be easily separated from the bones. Strain oft' the broth, pick out the bones, and pound the meat in a mortar; rub it through a tammy into a clean pot, using the broth to moisten it with whilst rubbing it through. Put into a stewpan about lb. of sweet butter and 2 moderate-sized onions sliced. Sweat the whole over a slow fire until the onions are done; then make a nice brown roux and moisten it with the first stock; let it simmer gently to throw up the grease; skim and strain : mix the whole together; boil and season with salt and cayenne pepper; add f pint of port wine, and a table-spoonful of currant jelly. A few pieces of fried bread cut in dice may be put into the tureen when served. This should produce 4 quarts of soup. The remains of a roast hare may be made into soup in the same manner. The crumb of 2 penny French rolls soaked in broth and rubbed through the tammy with the hare, may be used for thickening instead of brown roux. 2. Mutton Steaks.—Just brown your steaks on each side in the fry'- ing-pan, or in the large shallow stewpan in which they are to be finished off. Then cover the steaks with a variety of any good v'egetables that are in season: green peas, young carrots, small turnips sliced, celery cut into small pieces, a few leaves of sorrel and parsley, haricots, etc.