512 THINGS A LADY WOULD LLLCE TO LCNOW. which is essential to happiness. For want of it, many people live in a constant fever, and put all about them into a fever too.—Thos. Walker-^ M.A. UNCONSCIOUS INFLUENCE. Mr. Hazlitt has said somewhere, of the portrait of a beautiful female with a noble countenance, that it seems as if an unhandsome action would be impossible in its presence. Most men of any refinement of soul, must have felt the truth and force of this sentiment We have often thought that the picture of a beloved mother or devoted wife, hung up in the room where we spend our leisure hours, must certainly excite a mighty influence over the feelings and thoughts. Cowper’s picture of his mother was a living presence, whose speaking counte- nance and beaming eye appealed, as no living mortal could, to his inmost soul, and stirred to its profoundest depths. But what is it that gives this power to the inanimate resemblance of departed ones? Their virtues, their moral graces and excellences, as remembered by the affectionate survivor. It may seem an odd thought, but we cannot help suggesting it to every female reader,—to every sister, wife, and mother,—that it is a worthy ambition for each of them to labour to be, both now and when dead, that picture in the house, before which vice shall stand abashed, confounded, and in whose presence every virtuous and manly heart shall glow with every honourable and lofty sentiment, and be irresistibly urged to the love of goodness and truth.— W. Jones, E.S.A. WHEN YOU ARE IN LOW SPIRITS. Take an ounce of the seeds of resolution, mixed well with the oil of good conscience; infuse into it a large spoonful of the salts of patience; distil very carefully a composing plant called ‘ other’s woes,’ which you will find in every part of the garden of life, growing under the broad leaves of disguise; add a small quantity, and it will greatly assist the salts of patience in their operation; gather a handful of the blossom of hope, then sweeten them properly with the balm of prudence ; and if you can get any of the seeds of true friendship, you will then have the most valuable medicine that can be administered. But you must be careful to get some of the seeds of true friendship, as there is a seed very much like it called ‘ self-interest,’ which will spoil the whole com- position. Make the ingredients into pills, take one night and morning, and the cure will be effected.