HINTS FOR DRESSING AND THE TOILET. 487 let it stand an hour or two; then rub the milk (without disturbing the sulphur) into the skin. It will keep it soft, and make the complexion clear. A wine-glassful at a time is sufficient. It should be prepared over-night, and never used if the milk has become sour. A very good Honey Soap for the Skin.—Cut 2 lbs. of yellow soap very thin; put it into a double saucepan, stirring it occasionally till it is melted, which will be in a few minutes if the water is kept boiling around it; then add a lb. of honey, ^ lb. of palm oil, and 3d. of real oil of cinnamon; boil all together for six or eight minutes, then pour out and let it stand till the next day, when it will be fit for use. For Preserving and Beautifying the Teetji.—Dissolve 2 oz. of borax in three pints of water; before quite cold, i table-spoonful of spirits of camphor, and i tea-spoonful of tincture of myrrh, and put it into bottles ready for use. One wine-glassful ot this preparation added to ^ a pint of tepid water is sufficient for each application. Camphor Tooth Powder.—Prepared chalk, i lb.; camphor, i or 2 drachms. The camphor must be finely powdered by moistening it with a little spirit of wine, and then mixing it thoroughly with the chalk. Quinine Tooth Powder.—Sulphate of quinine, 6 grains; precipitated chalk, 12 drachms; rose pink, 2 drachms; carbonate of magnesia, i drachm. Mix all well together. Hair Wash.—For cleansing and promoting the growth of the hair. Oil of sweet almonds, i oz.; otto of roses, 2 drops ; carbonate of ammonia, 20 grains ; rosemary water, | pint; tincture of cantharides, 2 drachms; spirit of red lavender, 10 drops. Mix as follows:—Drop the otto of roses into the oil of sweet almonds ; dissolve the carbonate of ammonia in the rosemary water ; add to it the first named articles ; shake well the bottle ; and lastly put in the tincture of cantharides and red lavender. A little of the above should be well rubbed into the roots of the hair every morning. To fasten the Teeth.—Put powdered alum (the quantity of a nutmeg) in a quart of spring water for twenty-four hours; then strain the water, and gargle with it. To clean the Teeth.—Rub your brush on the soap you use, and lather your teeth welL