300 THINGS A LADY WOULD LNKE TO KNOW. dripping, and 2 large spoonfuls of vinegar, boiling hot. Lay the fish in, and fry it a fine colour; drain it from the fat, and serve with fried parsley round, and anchovy sauce. You may dip the fish in the vinegar, and not put it in the pan. 2. A Id mode Beef.—Take apiece of clod or sticking of beef and cut it in small pieces; then put a lump of dripping into your pot, with a good-sized onion cut thin; when quite hot, roll the pieces of beef in flour and lay them in, stirring it well about; when nicely browned all over, add boiling water, in the proportion of a quart to every lb. of meat; this must be added by degrees, and the whole kept stirring well together all the time; then put in a few allspice, 2 bay leaves, some black pepper, and a little salt; cover it up close, and set it by the side of the fire, so that it may stew very gently till the meat becomes quite tender, which it will in about three hours, when it will be ready to serve up. 3. Roast Larks.—Two dozen larks, pepper, salt, nutmeg, and a sprig of parsley, egg, bread-crumbs, and melted butter. Pick and clean 2 dozen birds, and cut off the heads and legs; pick out the gizzards, and put a seasoning inside them of pepper, salt, nutmeg, and a very little chopped parsley; brush them over with the yolks of some well-beaten eggs, dip them into bread-crumbs, covering them very thickly; run a small bird-spit through them, and fasten it on a larger one, and put them to roast before a bright fire, basting them con- stantly with butter, or they will burn. When done, arrange them in a circle round a dish, and fill the centre with a pile of crumbs of bread, fried crisp and brown in a little butter. Serve them with melted butter, with the juice of half a lemon squeezed into it 4. An7id!s Pudding.—R ^ lb. of suet, ^ lb. of bread-crumbs, i table- spoonful of ground rice, 3 oz. of loaf sugar, 2 eggs, peel of a lemon. Chop the suet very fine, and add to it the stale bread-crumbs, the ground rice, and the peel of the lemon grated. Mix it well together with the yolks of 2 eggs well beaten. Butter a basin, and place the ingredients in it; steam it. When served, pour over it a little melted butter and sugar, with half a glass of white wine, or serve the sauce in a tureen. OCTOBER 22. * We arenrjer like angels till our passion a'Afj.’—THOMAS Decker. 1. Roast Goose. I 3- Vegetables. 2. Oxtails Stewed. I 4- Apple Charlotte. I. Roast Goose.—Prepare a goose as for roasting; pour over it a quart of boiling milk, and let it lie all night in it. Take it out and