3?S TrllNGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO LCNOW. chief thing to be aimed at is to produce a light and cool feeling, both by the management of the room and the nature ot the repast. In winter, warmth and substantial diet afford the most satisfaction. In damp weather, when the digestion is the weakest, the diet ought to be moderate, but warm and stimulating; and in bracing weather, I think plain and substantial food the most appropriate. By studying to suit the repast to the temperature, the greatest satisfaction may be given at the cheapest rate. One of the greatest luxuries, to my mind, in dining, is to be able to command plenty of good vegetables, well served up; but this is a luxury vainly hoped for at set parties. Everybody of genuine taste is delighted with a display of vegetables of superior order j and if great attention was bestowed upon that part of dinners, instead of upon the many other dishes, dinners would be at once more wholesome and more satisfactory to the palate, and often less expensive. AVith respect to variety of vegetables, I think the same rule applies as to other dishes. In French cookery, vegetables meet with attention much more propor- tionate to their importance than in ours, and appropriateness in serving them is much more studied. In conformity with my dislike to show or display in anything con nected with dinners, I prefer a service of plain white ware to plate or ornamented china. There is a simplicity in white ware, and an appear- ance of cleanliness and purity, indicative of a proper feeling, and a due attention in the right direction. As to desserts, I am no great friend to them : I enjoy fruit much more at any other time of the day. At any rate, I would have them in great moderation, and confined to a few kinds of ripe fruit Preserved fruits are, in my opinion, cloying after dinner. Common soup made at home, fish of little cost, any joint, the cheapest vegetables, some happy and inexpensive introduction, like the crab, and a pudding, with sherry and port, provided everything is good in quality and the dishes are well dressed, and served hot and in succession with their adjuncts, will ensure a quantity of enjoyment which no one need be afraid to offer; and so it will be with any combination in the same style. But then it is absolutely necessary not to overdo the thing on the one hand, and on the other to direct the attention entirely in the right course; to think nothing of display or fashion, but only of realities, and to dispose everything for comfort and ease.