CONFECTIONERY, CAKES, AND FRESERVES. 461 7o clarify Isinglass.—Dissolve an oz. of isinglass in a cupful of boiling water; skim it, and drain it through a coarse cloth. Jellies, candies, and blancmange should be made in a clean copper pot, or a bell-metal pre- serving-pan, and stirred with a silver or wooden spoon. Candied ivT/zVj-.—Preserve the fruit, then dip it in sugar boiled to candy thickness, afterwards dry it. Grapes may be thus dipped un- cooked, and then dried. Or fruit may be taken from the syrup when preserved, rolled in powdered sugar, and afterwards set on a sieve to dry. Bottled Fruit.—Currants, gooseberries, greengages, and other fruits, may be preserved by putting them, after being carefully picked, into open-mouthed glass bottles, shaking them so as to have each bottle well filled, and then placing the bottles, slightly corked, into an oven, nearly cold, for five hours; when you observe the fruit get into wrinkles, you may take out the bottles, cork well down, and cover with leather and wax. Be sure to keep the bottles in a dry place. Short Crustfor sweet Pastry.—Crumble very lightly I- lb. butter into a lb. of flour, breaking it quite small. Well mix with them 2 oz. of sifted sugar, a little salt, with enough milk to make a smooth and rather firm paste. Bake it slowly, and keep it pale ; it will rise in the oven, and be very light. It must be well made, and very lightly handled. Apple felly.—Fill a stewpan with apples, simply cut in half and quartered, then put enough cold water to cover them, and stew gently by a clear fire till the apples are quite of a pulp. When done, put all into a jelly (flannel) bag to strain over a basin all night. Then add to each pint of juice ^ a lb. of sifted sugar, and the juice and rind of i or 2 lemons (according to taste), and stew and stir gently by a clear fire till it thickens. Put in pots, and cover with brandy papers. Apricot Preserve.—When ripe, choose the finest apricots; pare them as thin as possible, and weigh them. Lay them in halves on dishes, with the hollow part upwards. Have ready an equal weight of good loaf sugar finely pounded, and strew it over them; in the meantime, break the stones and blanch the kernels. When the fruit has lain twelve hours, put it with the sugar and juice, and also the kernels, into a preserving pan. Let it simmer very gently till clear, then take out the pieces of apricots singly as they become so; put them into small pots, and pour the syrup and kernels over them. The scum must be taken off as it rises. Cover with brandy paper. CAKES, ETC. In making cakes, it is indispensably necessary that all the ingredients should be heated before they are mixed: for this purpose every-