340 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 2. Fried Calfs Liver and Bacon.—your liver thin, your bacon the same. Fry your bacon first, enough, but not dried up or burnt; set it in a hot dish on your hot iron plate, to keep it from cooling. Then fry your slices of liver. When done, lay on a hot dish a slice of bacon and a slice of liver, lapping one over the other alternately, till the dish is full. To the gravy in your frying-pan put a few slices of lemon-peel; dredge in a little flour; moisten with a table-spoonful or so of good hot stock, and half a glass of white wine, if liked; season with pepper, salt, and lemon-juice; keep stirring with a fork till all is brown and smooth ; remove the lemon-peel, and then pour hot over your liver and bacon. A few forcemeat-balls may be laid round this dish. 3. Potato Fritters.—potatoes very thin; dip them m a fine batter, and fry them ; add lemon-peel, and a spoonful of orange-flower water to the batter. Serve with white sugar sifted over them. DECEMBER 2. ‘ Avoid extremes ; forbear resenting injuries.'—T)r. FrANKLIN. 1. Cod-Fish Hash. 1 3- Potato Fritters. 2. Broiled Veal Cutlets. 1 4- Vegetables. I. Cod-Fish Put in soak over-night a tea-cup of cod-fish picked up fine. In the morning boil some potatoes nicely, mash and work them until very light. Put the fish in the choppmg-bowl and chop it fine, after which, before taking it from the bowl, mash and work it until as fine as possible. Work the potato in little by little; work it with the potato pounder until five parts of potato are thoroughly in- corporated with the fish. This should be so perfectly done that the fish can neither be seen nor felt in the mouth separate firom the potato. Season the hash a little richer than for mashed potatoes; put it in the potato-kettle and heat it, constantly stirring. Have butter heated in the spider, press the hash into it firmly, and cook it gently.^ Whei brown, turn it out without breaking, and set it in the oven ; it is bette , however, to leave it in the spider, if not scorching, until it is served. Always buy white cod-fish. ^ ^ r 2 Broiied Veal Cutlets.—'?xocnxe a few nice cutlets from the b end of the neck of veal. Mix well together pepper and salt, mixed spices, biscuit raspings, and well-chopped thyme, ^ Roll your cutlets in this mixture one by one, pressing them ^ both sides, so as to make as much of it as possible stick to them, wrap them, first in very thin slices of bacon, and afterwards m oiled or