399 ‘PARTY' DINNER FOR MAY. 1 table-spoonful of anchovy sauce, i tea-spoonful of moist sugar, 2 table-spoonfuls of mushroom ketchup, the eighth part of a nutmeg grated, and i dessert-spoonful of vinegar; simmer gently for four hours and a half, skimming frequently; add i lb. of French beans, strung and washed in salt and water, but not cut, a wine-glassful of vinegar mixed with a table-spoonful of baked flour; continue to simmer another hour, and serve—the beef in the centre, and the beans round the dish. 7. Foil'I, fricasseed in Oil.—Cut up a young fowl into joints, and put it into cold water for two hours ; wipe it quite dry. Put i pint of the best salad oil into a bright stewpan, and when warm put in the fowl, with I tea-spoonful of salt, 2 moderate-sized mushrooms and 3 truffles (cleaned and cut up), i shalot, i sprig of thyme, 4 sprigs of parsley, and I bay leaf. Boil up quickly, then simmer till the fowl is a pale yellow colour (about three-quarters of an hour). Make the following sauce:—Clean 12 button mushrooms, chop 2 shalots and i truffle; put them into a saucepan with sufficient of the oil the fowl is cooked in to well moisten them; stir over a quick fire for ten minutes. Add i salt-spoonful of salt, i salt-spoonful of sifted sugar, the juice of i lemon (strained), and a gill of Marsala. Drain the fowl on a cloth, place it neatly on a hot dish, pour the sauce over, and send to table immediately. 8. Boiled Leg of Lamb.—Put the lamb into sufficient cold water just to cover it; boil up quickly; skim ; then simmer as gently as possible till done, allowing nineteen minutes to the pound, after it boils. When it has simmered three-quarters of an hour, add i dessert-spoonful of salt Serve with caper sauce made as follows:—Take ^ pint of the liquor the lamb is boiled in ; stir into it 3 oz. of butter, kneaded with i table-spoonful of baked flour; boil ten minutes; chop i table-spoonful of capers; add these; then stir in i table-spoonful of thick cream. Place the lamb on a hot dish, the skin downwards; pour over half of the sauce, and the remainder serve in a tureen; garnish with young carrots and mashed or whole young turnips. 9. Caper Sauce.- Knead i oz. of butter with i table-spoonful of dried flour, and stir into 5 pint of the liquor the mutton is boiled in; add i table-spoonful of capers, i tea-spoonful of vinegar; boil ten minutes, and pour over the mutton. Carrots and turnips may be boiled with the mutton ; the carrots require two hours, the turnips one. 10. Mashed Turnips.—Prepare and boil 6 turnips; press out all the water, and rub the turnips through a wire sieve; put them into a stewpan with i gill of thick cream and i salt-spoonful of salt; stir till boiling hot, then serve. Smooth over the top with a knife,'and cut into triangles. Note.—A tea-spoonful of sifted sugar is an improvement if not objected to.