298 THINGS A LADY WOULD LUCE TO KNOW. tips; then work the knife on the upper side quite to the spine, and when all but the skin which adheres to this is detached, separate the bone at the first joint from the neckbone or ribs, and pass the knife with caution under the skin down the middle of the back. 3. Veal and Ham Pie.—^Take the meat off an undressed breast ol veal, by cutting it in pieces about an inch and a half long and an inch broad. Put the bones into a saucepan, with plenty of water, and a bundle of sweet herbs; extract about half a pint of strong gravy; strain this through a sieve. Line a pie-dish with thin paste; envelope every piece of veal in a thin slice of dressed ham, not too fat; have ready half a dozen hard boiled eggs, distributing the yolks of these amongst your meat Season the gravy extracted from the bones with pepper and salt, and pour it over the meat till the dish be completely filled, then cover with top crust. This pie will require more time in baking than those of beefsteak, mutton, or fruit -0— OCTOBER 19. * / know that we often tremble at an empty terror: yet the false fancy brings a real misery. ’—Schiller. 1. Pheasant. I 3. Mashed Turnips. 2. Boiled Neck of Mutton. I 4. Nelson Pudding. I. Pheasant.—Let the bird be carefully picked and drawn; after hanging some tivo or three days, take out the craw by cutting a slit in the back of the neck; leave the head on, and truss as you would a fowl for roasting, with this difference, that you do not cut off the feet, but merely divest them of the claws. From half an hour to three-quarters’ roasting will be sufficient, the time depending upon the size. Baste ivith fresh butter; send it to table properly browned, with some rich gravy sauce, in which, a tea-spoonful of ham extract has been mixed. 3. Mashed Turnips.—The flavour of this justly favourite dish may be very much improved by having a table-spoonful of finely-powdered loaf sugar beat up with the vegetable, after it has been well pressed from the water. As the process of mashing occupies some time, the turnips should be warmed up a few minutes before being sent to table; add a small bit of butter, or half a tea-cupful of cream. 4. Nelson Pudding.—Butter a pudding dish, then cut some slices of thin bread and butter; line the dish with them, keeping the buttered side next it; strew a layer of shred suet, mixed wdth a little flour, over the bread at the bottom of the dish; over that, a layer of captain’s biscuits pounded, then a layer of sliced apples; strew over the apples a little mixed spice and sugar. Continue to put a layer of suet, biscuit, and