rilINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 3° liquor in which the calf’s head has been boiled, with a table-spoonful of sweet herbs in powder, the juice of two lemons, and the peel of one chopped fine, half a dozen cloves, a table-spoonful of mushroom powder, and a chalot chopped fine; let it all simmer slowly over the fire for a couple of hours. Make a couple of dozen savoury forcemeat balls, and boil a dozen eggs very hard. Pour the liquor through a sieve at the expiration of the two hours, and let it be quite cold before you remove the fat and scum j the liquor ought to be m a jelly, but not too stiff a one. Put this into a stewpan with the meat, the forcemeat balls, the yolks of the eggs, a spoonful of salt, and a third of soluble cayenne, with half a pint of sherry. Stew for an hour and a half, and it will be fit for table. 2. Cod's Head and Shoulders; boiled Oyster Satice.—Clean a cods head and shoulders in one piece, and lay it in salt all night. Before you dress it, bind it firmly together with tape. Put it into a fish-kettle with plenty of cold water, a handful of salt, and a stick of horseradish. Let it boil slowly for about three-quarters of an hour, then let thejmter drain from it across the top of the kettle. Place it on a hot dish back upwards, and draw away the tapes very carefully. Brush it over with beaten egg, and strew over it bread-crumbs, pepper, and salt; then stick pieces of butter thickly over the top. Set it before the fire, whic should be clear and brisk, to brown. Make a rich oyster sauce with gravy well seasoned with cayenne pepper, salt, and ketchup, and pour it into the dish, but not over the fish. Do not boil tht oysters. 2 Koast Sirloin of Beef arid scraped Horseradish.—'Sa\o\^x of beef win require as many quarters of an hour before the fire as it weighs pounds; it should be covered with clean white paper, well basted, and sent to table with newly-made mustard. _ ■. -r 4 Brussels .prouts should be put mto boding water in which a table-spoonful of salt has been dissolved, men 5 minutes on the fire will be sufficient. Dram them well, and serve wit '°‘"'^fMf^y^Fotatoes.—?at the required number, well washed but nelu' into a saucepan, and cover them with water about an above f^oS It the top. Let them boil on a fire not too fierce, so that he those at tne top saucepan, and let it stand on the T"''f"iL"hcrtnra foric easily penetrates the vegetable; you may nff thfwatrand let the steam evaporate; when you now drain off the , ^ clean cloth over the perceive that the ^ comer till the potatoes r duue su.cient time for "T four sponge-cakes into small pieces, add