474 THINGS A LADY WOULD LUCE TO KNOW. of rotten-stone mixed together; put it in the oven till in a liquid state \ then stir in a large wine-glassful of gin; keep it in a covered pot for use. When used, moisten it with cold water, rub it on with a piece of flannel till the tarnish disappears, wipe it off, and polish with a leather dipped in rotten-stone or fine whiting. Fur Cleaning MarMe.—Three oz. of pearl-ash, a cake of whiting, and 3 pints of water well mixed together, and boiled for lo minutes. Rub it well over the marble, and let it remain for twenty-four hours, then rub it off. To give a gloss to fine Oak Wainscot.—If greasy, it must be washed Avith warm beer; then boil 2 quarts of strong beer, a bit of bee’s-wax as large as a walnut, and a large spoonful of sugar; wet it all over with a large brush, and when dry, rub it till bright. To take Ink out of Mahogany.—Dilute a tea-spoonful of oil of vitriol with a large spoonful of water, and touch the part with a feather; w'atch it, for if it stays too long it will leave a white mark. It is therefore better to rub it quickly, and repeat if not quite removed. To take Iron Stains out of Marble.—An equal quantity of fresh spirit of vitriol and lemon-juice being mixed in a bottle, shake it well; wet the spots, and in a few minutes rub with soft linen till they disappear. Cleaning Woodwork.—Where painted wainscot or other woodwork requires cleansing, fuller’s earth will be found cheap and useful; and, on wood not painted, it forms an excellent substitute for soap. Where extreme nicety is required, use a mixture of i lb. of soft soap, 2 oz. of pearl-ash, i pint of sand, and i pint of table beer; simmer these sub- stances in a pipkin over a slow fire, and let them be well mixed. The mode of application is to put a small quantity in flannel, rubbed on the wainscot, wash it off with warm water, and dry thoroughly with a linen cloth. Treatment of Oil-doth.—O'Ci-OoCsx ought never to be wetted, if it can be possibly avoided, but merely to be rubbed with a flannel, and polished with a brush of moderate hardness, exactly like a mahogany table; and by this simple means the fading of the colours and the rotting of the canvas, which are inevitably attendant upon the oil-cloth being kept in a state of moisture or dampness, are entirely avoided. Papering of Damp Walls.—The following observations, in House- hold Words, on this subject are useful. The omnipresent gutta-percha is among the paper-hangings already, and presents itself in the form of a consolation to the owners of houses which are cursed w ith a wall or comer. As for a generally damp house, one has only to quit it, if one has ever been foolish enough to go into it But there are many excellent houses with some faulty bit—some corner or projection— which got wet in building, and never could be got dry; and here conies