38o things a lady WOULD LIKE TO ENOW and a dessert-spoonful of strained lemon-juice. Boil five minutes more. Stir in a wine-glassful of thick cream, and serve. Note.—The quantity given is sufficient to serve for lo or 12 persons, with a turbot weighing 8 or 9 lbs. 4. Fillets of Sole.—Saturate them for half an hour in lemon-juice ; dry, and dip each fillet into beaten egg, then into dried crumbs of bread. Fry in plenty of boiling lard or olive oil till of a yellow-brown colour. Drain, and serve upon neatly-folded white paper, placing ihe fillets in a circle, one resting on the other. Note.—Ten minutes will fry fillets unless very thick. 5. Stewed Pigeons.—Stuff the pigeons, and roast them for ten minutes. Peel 12 button onions, and fry them till slightly browned in an oz. ol butter; dredge in a table-spoonful of baked flour ; stir till well mixed ; then add ^ pint of any good stock, a table-spoonful of mushroom ket- chup, a tea-spoonful of soy, a tea-spoonful of vinegar, a salt-spoonful 01 good anchovy sauce, and two table-spoonfuls of port wine ; put in the pigeons, and simmer gently for half an hour. Serve very hot. 5. Oyster Vol-aii-vent.—Make a puff paste with f lb. of dry sifted flour, f lb. of fresh butter, the yolk of an egg, the strained juice of a lemon ; beat the egg first alone, then with a gill of cold water; add the lemon-juice. Put the flour into a bowl, stir in the liquid, and make it into a soft paste, touching it as little as possible. Squeeze the butter in a cloth; slightly sprinkle the paste slab with flour; lay on the paste, make a hole in the centre, put in the butter; turn over the edges, and roll out 4 times. Let the paste stand in a cold place for an hour; roll out 2 or 3 times; then roll it the last time an inch and a quarter thick. Press a tin vol-au-vent cutter quickly down, so as to take off the rough edges, and cut it the size and shape required. Make a circular incision with a penknife a quarter of an inch deep and half an inch from the edge; place it on a baking-tin, and bake in a hot oven for three-quarters of an hour. With a penknife take out the centre carefully, remove the soft paste, and fill the vacancy with oysters prepared as followsBeard 3 doz. oysters; put the liquor into a saucepan with the beards, a sm^ piece of mace, the eighth part of a nutmeg grated, a grain of white pepper, a grain of cayenne, the thin rind of half a lemon, and the strained juice ; boil up. Knead 3 oz. of butter with a dessert-spoonful of baked flour, and stir in; boil till it is reduced to a quarter of a pint; strain : add the oysters; simmer six minutes; stir in a gill of very tliick fresh cream. Serve the vol-au-vent on a neatly-folded napkin. 6. Sweetb7-eads, with Mtishrooms.—Blanch and trim the sweetbre.ids, lard them thickly with good fat bacon; cut up half a carrot, half a turnip, half a head of celery, a small onion. Rub a stewpan four times across the bottom with garlic ; put in the vegetables, with \ lb. of butter,