THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 40 it well with a coarse cloth, and dredge it with flourj tie it in large sheets of white paper, spread thickly with sweet dripping. Have a good fire ; hang it 7iear for the first half hour, then at a distance; roast_ slowly till done j baste constantly; if liked well done, it will take eighteen minutes to the lb.; if not, from ten to fourteen minutes. Take oft the paper twenty minutes before serving ; dredge slightly with baked flour, and baste with 2 oz. of dissolved butter j pour off the dripping \ add a tea-cupful of boiling water and a salt-spoonful of salt to the dripped gravy, and pour it into a hot well-dish; put the haunch on, broad side uppei-most, and serve at onee. Have red currant jelly on a glass dish. 2. Stmed Celery is in season from October to April. To each i gallon of water put i large table-spoonful salt; thoroughly wash and trim 6 heads of celery, and boil them: if large heads, they take about twenty-five minutes; smaller ones, quarter of an hour to twenty minutes, to be tender. Put | pint of cream in a stewpan with a blade of pounded mace; shake it over the fire till the cream thickens; dish the celery, pour over the sauce, and serve. 5. Marmalade Pudding.—Mix ^ lb. suet, finely chopped, with do. bread-crumbs in a basin, ^ lb. marmalade, and do. sugar; stir well together; beat 4 eggs to a froth, and gradually mix well ^th the in^Tedients; put in a mould or buttered basin; tie down with floured cloth, and boil for two hours. When turned out, sUew fine sifted sugar over the top. This pudding will look very pretty if stoned raisms are tastefully arranged before the mixture is poured in. -0— JANUARY 12. • God causes the good tuoman's purpose to prosper.' 1. Baked Soles. 2. Scotch Brose. 3. Vegetables. 4. Crullars. I. Baked Soles.-<Z\^^r, the sole, and lay in a cloth f fryincr Take it from the cloth, and rub it over with softened but not iLd butter • then dip the fish in a beaten egg, and draw it through bmad-crumbs till well covered; let it remain a little while, then put on a few more crumbs; put a little butter in a flat dish or baking tin, and allow k t^m It; place the fish in it, and bake it in a moderate oven. I twni take abo^twenty minutes. I< not nicely the oven use a salamander, or if you have not one. make the k'‘*en sho^l red hot and carefully brown it. Send to table on a napkin, and