40Q THE GARDEN, AND GARDENING. pricked out into nursery beds, to be finally transplanted into the borders towards the end of next month. Plant out beds of German Stocks from the early sowings; keep them shaded until rooted; sow more seed for succession, and also of intermediate stock for autumn blooming. The value of bulbous plants for spring display will now be fully apparent; for with Hyacinths, Jonquils, Narcissus, Scillas, Van Thol and other early tulips, and Turban Ranunculus, an amount of beauty may be realized which those who have not tried cannot conceive. Plant out immediately the beds of Tigridia Pavonia and Conchiflora. Sow Holly- hocks and other perennial herbaceous plants, also biennials for next year’s blooming. Let bedding plants in their various stages have due attention ; any which are pot-bound may, towards the end of the month, be turned out under a temporary framework into light soil, and kept covered at night: attend particularly to keeping down insects—it very often constitutes the difference between success and failure. Plants pot-bound, standing with pots exposed to the sun, parching dryness of the roots at one time and a drenching at another, with the cold attend- ing a rapid evaporation of moisture, are fruitful causes of weakness and hosts of insects. All such plants that make fibrous roots are better planted out in a bed, with the necessary protection given to them; hence Calceolarias, etc. do better when they never see artificial heat, and never know what it is to be cramped, heated, and cooled in pots. Even plants in pots would be less liable to such extremes, and require less labour in looking after them, when plunged in some open material. As a general rule, plants struck in autumn in a cool temperature do best, though there are often exceptions, as Verbenas struck in heat in the spring, and well hardened off afterwards. Calceolarias struck in spring come in well for edgings, and perhaps bloom more freely in autumn. The difference in time is also of importance to the beginner who likes to see the results of his handiwork. For instance. Calceo- laria cuttings inserted in a cold pit in the end of October may take two months before they emit a single root; a similar cutting will be rooted in as many days in a hot-bed m March and April. To ensure quick rooting, the cutting should be growing, be slipped off close to the older stem, dressed there, and the foliage thinned to lessen the perspirin<T surface; be inserted in sandy soil in a well-drained pot; the pot be plunged in a sweet hot-bed, be watered, a little air let in at ni<^ht to prevent vapours accumulating, the sashes shut during the day and a little shading given onJy v^hen the cutting will not stand sunlight without flagging. Look well to the watering of newly-planted trees, shrubs roses, and herbaceous plants, if the weather is at all dry and parching ’