185 BILL OF FAFF FOR JUNE. take it out of the pot, dip the basin into cold water, then turn the pudding out on to a dish. JUNE 24. * Piety is the true charm of home ; a holy home is the only really haffy one'— Rev. J. B. Osden. 1. Stewed Eels. 3. Vegetables. 2. Breast of Lamb rolled with 4. Amber Pudding. A Ragout. 1. Stewed Eels.—Skin and cut the fish into lengths of about two inches; fill a frpng-pan with fresh parsley, and place the eels upon it over a slow fire; extract as much of the oily fat from the fish as possible, keeping them turned, and having sufficient parsley to prevent their touching the pan. Place them on a slanting board, to drain for a couple of hours. Have ready some rich beef gravy, into which put 2 table- spoonfuls of mixed sweet herbs in powder, 2 glasses of sherry, a third of soluble cayenne pepper to three-fourths of a spoonful of salt, and a dozen small silver onions; let the fish stew in these ingredients over a slow fire for an hour. Strain the gravy through a sieve; should it require thickening, add a little flour, beat up with the yolk of an egg; lay the onions on the dish, and pour the sauce, quite hot, over the fish. Garnish with slices of lemon. 2. Breast of Latnb rolled with a Ragoht.—Have a breast of lamb cut lather broad, bone it, and season it well with pepper and salt. Spread it over, with veal forcemeat, roll it up, and bind it tight with tape. Stew it gently in a braize until tender; take it up, and put it into a moderate oven; glaze it two or three times before serving, and serve it with a ragoht of any sort of vegetables round. 4. Amber Pudding.—Wnt a pudding-dish with good puff paste, ^ lb. of fresh butter, | lb. loaf sugar, and 8 eggs. Mix the yolks of the eggs \vith the sugar and butter on the fire till it becomes thick, but not boil- ing ; whip the whites of the eggs to a froth, and mix with the other when cold. ^ Put any jam on the bottom of the dish, according to taste ; pour the mixture of eggs, etc. over, and bake half an hour.