217 BILL OL .FARE FOR JUL K on a bed of green fennel leaves, with either gooseberry, fennel, anchovy, or shrimp sauce. 2. R/^r^/eL Fork Siew.—'^vX 2 lbs. of streaky bacon or pickled pork into a saucepan with i gallon of water, and cut up 2 lbs. of thoroughly- washed white cabbage, from which the stalks have been removed; cut up 2 large onions, a carrot, a turnip, a head of celery, and a quart of green peas, and let the whole boil for three or four hours, removing the scum. Skim off all the fat, and season with a little pepper and brown sugar; salt is seldom necessary. Cut i lb. of bread in slices, and lay it in the tureen; pour over the soup, and close the vessel for ten minutes ; then serve. 4. Omelette Soiifflee.—Break up 6 eggs; separate the whites from the yolks; into the latter mix 2 table-spoonfuls of grated lemon-peel, and 4 ot finely-powdered sugar; whisk up the whites for ten minutes; add the froth to the yolks just before frying. Melt ^ lb. of butter in a pan, and put in the eggs. As soon as they are quite set, slant the frying- pan and turn them over. Serve on a dish well buttered, strew powdered sugar over the omelet, and brown the top with a salamander. JULY 27. ‘ Paradise is always where love dwells.'—Richter 1. Fricasseed Soles. 3. Green Peas. 2. Roast Ducks, 4. Lemon Dumplings. 1. Fricasseed Soles.—Buy 3 soles (2 good-sized and i small); fry the large pair of a nice brown, and drain them well from fat. Chop quite fine all the meat from the small sole, i tea-spoonful of (chopped) parsley, half a tea-spoonful of chopped lemon, a little grated bread, and seasoning. Work all together with the yolk of i egg and 2 oz. of butter make into small balls, and fry them. Thicken ^ pint of good gravy with a dessert-spoonful of flour; add some cayenne, lemon-juice, and 2 table-spoonfuls of port wine. Lay in the soles and balls j simmer gently for five minutes; garnish with cut lemon, and serve hot. 2. Roast Ducks.—See that the birds be properly picked, and after drawing let the interior be carefully cleaned with a soft towel. Boil a couple of onions in two waters, and then chop them up very small; half a tea-cupful will be suflRcient. Mix the onion with about one-half the quantity of fresh sage leaves, 2 oz. of finely-powdered bread-ciTimbs, a spoonful of salt, and the third of a spoonful of soluble cayenne; beat up the yolk of an egg, and rub the stuffing materials well together in it With a brisk fire, five-and-thirty minutes’ roasting will be sufficient. Serve with gravy sauce.