^PARTY' DINNER FOR JANUARY. 381 and fry them brown; lay in the sweetbreads, and add the third of a pint of stock, a salt-spoonful of salt, the same of loaf sugar and white pepper, a small blade of mace, 2 cloves, 3 allspice, the tenth part of a nutmeg grated, the thin rind of half a lemon, and a table-spoonful of brandy. Boil up quickly; skim, then simmer very gently for three-quarters of an hour. Put the sweetbreads in a moderate oven (with ^ oz. of butter on each) for ten minutes j skim and strain the gravy. Skin and clean 12 button mushrooms; put them into the gravy with a tea-spoonful of tarragon vinegar; knead an oz. of fresh butter with a dessert-spoonful of baked flour, and stir in ; boil up ; put in the sweetbreads, and con- tinue to simmer for a quarter of an hour. Serve the sweetbreads in the centre, and the sauce round. 7. Boiled Fowls and White Sauce.—Let the fowls be neatly trussed for boiling; place them in a stewpan, and cover them with new milk ; boil up quickly, then simmer as gently as possible till done. Spring chickens will require sixteen minutes; fine fowls, twenty-five minutes; capons, from forty to fifty minutes. In each case the time to be reckoned from the boiling up. Make a sauce as follows:—Knead 2 dessert-spoonfuls of baked flour with 3 oz. of butter, and stir into it the third of a pint of the milk the fowls are boiling in; boil ten minutes ; add a gill of thick cream ; place the fowls on a hot dish, draw out the skewers. Pour half of the sauce over the breasts, and serve the rest in a tureen. Note. About 3 quarts of milk will be required for 2 good-sized fowls. If reserved in an earthen pan, it will make excellent soup, by adding onions, garlic, celery, carrots, salt, pepper, a bay leaf, the bone’s of the fowl, and a thick slice of crumb of bread. Boil for two hours, then rub through a sieve. ’ 8. Marengo of Fowl.—Cxxt a fine young fowl into joints; divide the legs from the thighs, and the pinions from the wings ; cut the breast off the bone in 4 neat slices. Put the prime pieces into a basin of cold water with a tea-spoonful of salt, half a clove of garlic, and a tea- spoonful of tarragon vinegar; let them remain for three hours. Put the remainder of tire fowl in a saucepan, with a small carrot and an onion sliced, i lb. of gravy beef, i lb. of lean veal, 2 oz. of ham, i clove a small blade of mace, and i oz. of butter; let it stand by the fire to brorvn the meat; add a quart of water, boil up quickly, skim, then simmer for tlrree hours. Knead 2 oz. of butter with a table-spoonful of flour ; stir it into the gravy, and boil fast till it is reduced to | a pint then strain. Add 12 button mushrooms, nicely cleaned, and a wine- glassful of Madeira or Marsala. Wipe the fowl dry, dredge it with baked flour, and fry it in butter (6 oz.) till of a deep yellow colour (about half an hour). Boil 6 gocd-sized potatoes; mash them with a