4TO THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. grated rind of half a lemon, and i shalot chopped as fine as possible, simmer ten minutes. Add a wine-glassful of white wine and the strained juice of a lemon ; simmer five minutes more, then ser^e with the following sauce poured over :—Beat the yolks of 2 fresh eggs with a gill of good cream; strain the sauce in which the fish was stewed, skim off the butter, mix the sauce with the cream, and stir it over the fire till it thickens. 3. EAs, with Tartar Sauce.—Have an eel weighing a pound and a half; skin it, and cut off the fins ; put it into boiling water, with a table-spoonfiil of vinegar and a tea-spoonful of salt, and let it remain five minutes; cut it into three-inch lengths, and roll it in a clean cloth to dry. Make a batter as follows :—Beat the yolks of 2 eggs, and mix with 3 table-spoonfuls of baked flour; add an oz. of dissolved butter and the third of a pint of tepid water; beat quickly for ten minutes; let it stand in a cool place for two or three hours. Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and add to the batter; continue to beat for ten minutes. Dip the eel into the batter, then fry it in boiling lard (enough to cover it) till of a pale brown colour (about twenty minutes): drain on a cloth before the fire. Place the eel in a circular form on a cold dish, and serve with the following sauce in the centre :—Rub the hard- boiled yolks of 3 eggs to a powder; add a salt-spoonful of flour of mustard, ^ a salt-spoonful of salt, a grain of cayenne, and the beaten yolk of I egg; stir in, drop by drop, 4 table-spoonfuls of Lucca oil, 2 tea-spoonfuls of tarragon vinegar, and i table-spoonful of French vinegar; continue to stir till the sauce becomes a thick cream; chop quite fine i shalot, a piece of garlic as big as a pea, and i small gherkin; stir these into the sauce, and serve (cold). 4. Sweetbreads, Mushrooms, and Potato-Balls.—Order a 2 lb. loaf to be baked in an oval cake-tin; let it be one day old. Cut off the top above the tin; scoop out the crumb, leaving three-quarters of an inch all round and at the bottom; be very careful not to make a hole anywhere. Now pare off the crust, and dip the case into oiled butter (-^ a lb.), and put it into the oven for twenty minutes; re-dip it in the butter, and let it remain in the oven till of a pale, bright, brown colour. Cut off the pith and skin of 2 sweetbreads, and blanch them in boiling water for five minutes; cut each into equal-sized pieces, and throw them into cold water for an hour; take them out, wipe them dry, and dredge over a dessert-spoonful of baked flour. Rub a bright stewpan with garlic (four times across the bottom); put in 2 oz. of butter, the sweetbreads, a tea-spoonful of salt, a salt-spoonful of white pepper, the sixth part of a nutmeg grated, the thin rind of half a lemon, 4 sprigs of parsley, a laurel leaf,-a bay leaf, a blade of mace, 2 cloves, the strained juice of a lemon, 2 table-