BILL OF FARE FOR DECEMBER. 351 DECEMBER 13. ‘ You have received from t!u Almighty your bodies and your souls unslaincd by dishonour; you 'will be soon required to restore them immaculate.''—Rev. James Fordyce, D.D. I. Pike a la Genevaise. 3. Christmas Pudding. 2 Roast Beef. 4. Vegetables. 1. Pike d. la Genevaise.—Boil the fish in a court bouillon made with all sorts of aromatic herbs, and serve with sauce prepared as follows : Make a roux witli butter and flour; moisten with the court bouillon, with chopped mushrooms, parsley leaves, and green onions; strain after stewing well, mix with it essence of anchovy and lemon-juice, and pour hot over the fish. 2. Roast Beef.—Begin by hanging it at a distance from the fire, bringing it nearer when about half or three parts done. For the time of roasting, the general and approximate rule is a quarter of an hour for each pound of meat; but much will depend on the brightness and also the mass of the fire, the weather, and other circumstances. Continual basting must be observed from the beginning to the end of the opera- tion ; dredging with flour is a matter of choice. 3. Christmas Pudding.—Take 10 crackers, break them up into a quart of milk, leaving them over-night, and the next morning rub them through the colander. Beat up 8 eggs, i lb. sugar, i cup of molasses, I cup of brandy, i lb. suet, i table-spoonful of salt, i nutmeg, i spoon- ful of cloves, half a spoonful of mace, the rind of one lemon and juice, ^ lb. of citron cut thin, i lb. currants, and lb. raisins stoned. Boil five hours, and serve with brandy or rich wine sauce. DECEMBER 14. 'Home is 'where the heart can bloom.'—Charles Swain. 1. Salmon Steaks. 2. Stewed Giblets. 3. Ribs of Beef. 4. Apple Pudding with Cream. 5. Vegetables. I. Salmon Steaks.—Cut the fish completely across, in slices about an inch thick. Dry them well between the folds of a napkin. If for frying, they may be dusted with flour, which can be spread evenly over their surface with a feather; if for grilling, they can be seasoned with the slightest sprinkling of pepper and salt In the latter case, the turning must be adroitly performed with steak-tongs. Either anchovy or caper sauce goes well with salmon steaks.