4. Vegetables. 350 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 2. Roast Sucking Pig. DECEMBER 12. ‘ Works of ingenuity and elegance are particularly becoming, and the study of them ought to enter into female education as much as possible.'—Rev. James Fordyce, D.D. 1. Stuffed Carp.—Chop fine some button mushrooms, together with parsley, chives, and a couple of small onions; toss them in a saucepan over a brisk fire with a little butter. If the carp has any roe, it should be mixed up with the above. Take it off the fire, and mix therewith minced hard egg yolks, chopped anchovy, pepper, and salt Scale and empty your carp, and split it open along the belly ; put your stuffing in, and sew it up again. Oil a sheet of paper, wrap your carp in it, and lay it on the gridiron over a moderate fire. When thoroughly done, remove the paper and serve the carp on a hot oval dish, with a good lump of butter well worked up with minced parsley, pepper, salt, and lemon-juice. 2. Roast Sucking Pig.—When the pig is properly prepared and cleaned by the butcher, cut off the feet and make a stuffing of chopped sage, crumbs of bread, butter, pepper, and salt, according to your taste and judgment, but let the bread be the principal ingredient; fill the inside of the pig with the stuffing, and sew up the slit. Baste with butter j it will require from two to three hours’ roasting, according to the size. The skin should be nicely browned and crisp. Before sending it to table, split it down the back from head to tail, and lay it with the skin side uppermost flat in the dish. The head is cut off, and a half laid at each end. Take out the brains, and having previously boiled the liver, chop it up with the brains and mix them together with veal or beef gravy in a small tureen. Apple sauce as for pork. 3. Apple and Bread Pudding.—Pare and cut apples as for a pie, put a little sugar to them, cover and set them in a moderate oven till they begin to soften; then take them out, and when nearly cold cover well with bread that has been soaked in warm milk, or set the bread and milk (covered with a plate) in a moderate oven till the bread has absorbed the milk. An egg or two may be added to the milk, but it is very wholesome and good without eggs. Any kind of fresh fruit may be used in the same way. 1. Stuffed Carp. 3. Apple and Bread Pudding.