326 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. sugar over the butter, and then line the mould with slices of bread thickly buttered. Cut some good baking apples into slices; place them in the mould in layers, with grated lemon-peel, candied citron, and orange-peel, and a little sugar between each layer of apples. When the mould is full, cover the top with a slice of bread, previously soaked in a little warm water. Bake it in a moderately-heated oven; turn it out of the mould, and serve it NOVEMBER 19. 'Adversity is the only balance to ivei^h Plutarch. 1. Boiled Beef. 2. Hashed Hare. 3. Brandy Pudding. 4. Carrots. 1. Boiled Beef.—Miex the beef has been in the pickle for about nine or ten days, take it out and wash it in water; skewer it up in a round form, and bind it with a piece of tape. Put it into a large stew- pan of water, and when it boils, remove the scum very carefully, or it will sink, and spoil the appearance of the meat. Then draw the sauce- pan to one side of the fire, and let it simmer slowly until done. When ready to serve, draw out the skewers and replace them ivith a silver one. Pour over it a little of the liquor in which it has been boiled, and garnish with boiled carrots and parsnips. When taken firom the water, trim off any soiled part from the beef before sendmg it to table. 2. Hashed Hare.—Into a pint of beef gravy put a couple of silver onions and 3 or 4 cloves, with a small quantity of soluble cayenne and salt; let this boil slowly till you have extracted the flavour of the spice a^id vegetables; take them out, and add 2 table-spoonfuls of red cur- rant jelly, and a good-sized wine-glass of port. When all is quite ot, put in the hare, previously cut in small pieces; and, should any of the stuffing be left, crumble it into the saucepan. Do not suffer the meat to remain long in the sauce. Serve it hot, with sippets and currant Brandy Budding.—Vmt a pudding-mould with jar raisins or dned cherries, then with slices of French roll; next to which put rata as or macaroons, then the fruit, roll, and cakes in succession until the mo^d be full; sprinkle in at times 2 glasses of brandy; beat 4 whole egj, add to them a pint of milk or cream, the peel of half a lemon fi y grated, and half a grated nutmeg. Let the liquid sink part; then flour a cloth, tie it tight over the mould, and boil it, ke p g it the right side up. Serve it out of the mould, and with sweet sauce.