THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 332 NOVEMBER 2 6. ‘ Mishaps are mastered by advice discreet. And counsel mitigates the greatest smart.'—Spenser. r. Pike. 1 3- Baked Apple Pudding. 2.. Chicken Pie. 1 4. Vegetables. 1. Pike.—Prepare a dressing with bread-crumbs, boiled eggs chopped fine, pepper, salt, and butter. Fill the body of the fish, and bind it firmly with slips of cloth. Boil gently until thoroughly cooked. Remove it to the platter, and set it in the oven a few minutes to dr)^ Boil eggs hard, slice and lay them round the dish, and just before serving pour over the fish a little drawn butter. Prepare a sauce in this mannerBoil 6 eggs one hour, work the yolks, until they become a paste, with a wooden spoon. Take a tea-cup nearly full of sweet butter; mix with it a good table-spoonful of flour, work in the yolks of the eggs, and then stir gently, little by little, ^ a pint of boiling water. Add a little salt, if needed, and pepper; but if the butter is salt, no salt will be required. 2. Chicken Pie.—Zovtx the bottom of a pie-dish with a puflf paste; upon that, round the side, lay a thin layer of forcemeat; cut 2 small chickens into pieces, season them highly with pepper and salt; put some of the pieces into the dish, then some sweet-bread cut into pieces and well seasoned, a few fresh mushrooms, and the yolks of 4 or 5 hard- boiled eggs cut into 4 pieces, and strewed over the tops. Put in a little water, and cover the pie with a piece of puff paste; glaze it, ornament the edge, and bake it. When done, pour in through the hole in the top a cupful of good gravy, thickened with a little flour and butter. 3. Baked Apple Prepare some apples as for sauce; stew them to a pulp in water just enough to keep them from burning, and to each ^ lb. of pulp (when weighed) put ^ lb. of loaf sugar, grate i lemon, beat up well 6 eggs. Beat together all the ingredients, then stu in 6 oz. of butter melted; put a border of puff paste round the dish, and bake it from half an hour to three-quarters of an hour. -0— NOVEMBER 2 7. ‘ The truest end of life is to know the life that nez>er ends.' William Penn. 1. Roast Woodcocks. 2. Beefsteak and Kidney Puddings. Stewed Cucumbers. 4. Raspberry Puff. 5. Vegetables. I. Roast Woodcocks.~?lv.z\ off the feathers gently, or tlie skin of the birds will break, but handle them as lightly and as little as possible.