riLL OF FARE FOR JULY. 201 and may be used with good effect on cauliflower and broccoli, obtaining thereby a fine contrast in colour between the vegetable and its stalk. 4. Vermicelli Pudding.—Chop up the rind of half a lemon, and break a stick of cinnamon into bits; boil these in a pint of milk, then sweeten with sugar to your taste, and strain through a sieve ; put ^ lb. of vermi- celli into the milk, and let it boil for ten m.inutes; beat up the yolks of 6 eggs, add half the whites, pour all into a dish, and bake for half an hour. JULY 7. * Give every man thine ear, but fev) thy voice Take each mads censure, but resetve thy judgment.'—ShAKSPEARE. 1. Red Mullet. 3. Cauliflower. 2. Stewed Lamb. 4. Gooseberry Fool. 1. Red Mullet.—They should be enveloped in oiled paper, and put into boiling lard in the frying-pan, and turned occasionally for a quarter of an hour; before serving take off the paper, and garnish the dish with slices of lemon. 2. Stewed Latnb.—Cut up into small pieces 2 lbs. of cold roast or boiled lamb, put it into a convenient-sized stewpan, with 2 tea-spoonfuls of flour, I of chopped onions, i of salt, quarter of pepper and pint of water, and a bay leaf j bring to the boil, add a pint of boiled green peas, simmer for twenty minutes, and serve. The white of dressed cauliflower can be used, or small mushrooms. 3. Caulijlower.—After trimming the outside leaves, and cutting off the stalk, put them in a panful of salt and water for an hour before cooking. Put 3 table-spoonfuls of salt into the water in the saucepan, let it boil, and skim it most carefully; put in your vegetables, and allow from fifteen to twenty minutes, according to the size. Remember that those of moderate growth, neither too large nor too small, are always the best. 4. Gooseberry Fool.—Y\.ok a quart of full-grown unripe gooseberries, and put them into a saucepan with a little water. Cover them up, and let them simmer very softly. When they are tender, but not so much done as to burst, take them off, strain the water from them, and turn them into a dish. Now bruise them to a fine pulp, and sweeten them with sugar to your taste. Let them stand till cool, and then add new milk or cream.