493 RECIPES FOR ACCIDENTS, ETC. On breaking the stalk of the growing plant in two, a drop of milky juice will be observed to hang on the upper part of the stem; if this is allowed to drop on the wart, so that it be well saturated with the juice, in about three or four dressings the warts will die, and may be picked off with the fingers. Cold Cream for Chapped Hands.—Take 2 oz. of oil of almonds, i oz. of spermaceti, and a piece of white wax as big as a hazel-nut, and melt them together at the bottom of a basin. When these are melted and well mixed, pour over them a pint of cold spring water, and let them stand for 24 hours. Then pour away all the water, and pound the mixed residue in a mortar. Scent with a drop or two of essence of bergamot, or a little lavender. Receipt for Boils, Carbuncles, etc.—Two oz. of soft soap, an oz. of bee’s- wax, a large tea-spoonful of flour, a ^ of a tea-cupful of beer, a of an oz. of the best sweet oil, 2 table-spoonfuls of treacle. These ingredients to be simmered for a quarter of an hour in an earthen pipkin. Apply thinly spread on a piece of linen. Change it twice a day, and sponge the parts with warm water. Lip Salve.—Alkanet root, i drachm; oil of almonds, i oz.; sperma- ceti cerate, 2 oz. Add a few drops of any scent that you like, while warm. Take care to let the alkanet root be put in a jar with the oil, and placed on the hob or in an oven till it is a beautiful red; then take it out and place it again on the hob with the cerate. To preojent Chilblains.&2X flannel socks, or socks of chamois leather, when you go to bed. To cure Chilblains.—Wash them with tincture of myrrh in a little water. For Cold.—Drink a pint of cold water when in bed. Windy Cholic.—Drink a pint of camomile tea, or parched peas eaten freely. Bilious Cholic.—Drink warm lemonade. Costiveness.—early, or take daily (two hours before dinner) a small tea-cupful of stewed prunes. Dry Immediately after your cough, chew a piece of Peruvian bark, about the size of a peppercorn. Swallow your spittle as long as it is bitter, and then spit out the wood. Do this every time you cough ; it is invaluable. Asthma.—Cut an ounce of stick liquorice into slices. Steep this in a quart of water four and twenty hours, and use it as a common drink, and eat as much toasted bacon with the dripping as you can. Bleeding of the Nose.—Ytz.%\i the temples, nose, and neck with ^•inegar. Bleeding of a Wound.—Take ripe puff-balls, break them warily, and save the powder; strew this on the wound, and bind it on.