THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 124 APRIL 17. JVM chastely, and love dearly'—SilAKSPEARE, 1. Oxtail Soup. 2. Calf’s Head. 3. Boiled Pork. 4. Mashed Potatoes. 5. Plum-pudding. 1. Oxtail Soup.—One large or two small tails will make soup for half a dozen people. If not quite fresh, the soup will be milky, and perhaps unsavoury. Cut them into joints, and stew them slowly for three or four hours, until the meat comes easily from the bones, with a sufficiency of water, carrots, onions, pepper, and salt, taking care not to let the peculiar flavour of the oxtail be overpowered by any other. When done, take out the pieces of tail whole, and set them aside. Thicken the stew with flour and fried onion, diluting it afterwards with good cotisotnmL Strain, add the oxtail, boil up, and serve. 2. Calfs IIead.—W3.s\\ and cleanse the head thoroughly; take out the brains and soak them in cold water, and pick them quite clean. Boil the head slowly for an hour and a half; then put the brains into a small saucepan, and boil them in half a pint of the liquor for half an hour. Then take up the head in a dish, mash the brains, and season them with pepper and salt; turn them back into the little saucepan, add a few bread-crumbs, a lump of butter rolled in flour, and a glass of wine; shake all well together, just give it a boil, and serve it for sauce, either poured over the head or separately in a boat. The liquor will make excellent soup the next day. Some cooks bone the head previous to boiling. 1 • f 5. Plum-pudding.—Flour and suet, ^ lb. of each, 4 eggs, pint 01 new milk, with a little mace and nutmeg, i lb. of raisins, do. of currante. Mix well, and boil three-quarters of an hour, with the cover of the pot on. APRIL 18. ‘ IFealth is to be used only as the instrtment of action, not as the representative of civU honours and moral excellence.' Miss Porter. T, T- Caper Sauce. 1. Roast Fowls. 2. Boiled Leg of Mutton. 4- 1 urnips. I. Roast Fowls.—TA and draw them ; be careful not to break the gall-bag in drawing, at, if the gall be spilled, it will render any part