BILL OF FARE FOR SEPTEMBER. 26q SEPTEMBER IS. ‘ TTie pleasure which affects the human mind with the most lively and transporting touches, is the sense that %oe act m the eye of infinite wisdom, power, attd goodness that will crown our virtuous endeavours here with happiness hereafter ; large as our desires, and lasting as our immortal souls.'—Tillotson. 3. Yorkshire Pudding. I. Spitchcock Eds.—Take i or 2 large ones, leave the skin on, cut them in pieces of three inches long, open them on the belly side, and clean them nicely. Wipe them dry, and then wet them with beaten egg, and strew over on both sides chopped parsley, a very little sago, pepper, salt, and a bit of mace pounded fine and mixed with the sea- soning. Rub the gridiron with a piece of suet, and broil the fish of a fine colour. For sauce, serve with anchovy and butter. 3. Yorkshire Pudding.—Mix 5 spoonfuls of flour with a quart of milk and 3 eggs well beaten. Butter the pan, which should be a square one. When browned by baking under the meat, turn the other side upwards, and brown that. Set it over a chafing-dish at first, and stir it some minutes. Cut into square pieces to come to table. 5. Canton Pudding.—Mix well together the following ingredients :— ^ lb. of bread-crumbs, i lb. of beef suet minced fine, and ^ lb. of apples which have been pared, cored, and chopped small, 6 oz. of sifted loaf sugar, the juice and grated peel of i lemon, i pinch of salt; after well mixing, put it into a mould and boil four hours. SEPTEMBER 16. ‘ The soul reposing on assured relief. Feels herself happy amidst all her grief; Forgets her labour as she toils along. Weeps tears of joy, and bursts into a song.'—COWPER, I. Beef Soup. Take lbs. from a shin, or any other part of gravy beef, and make cuts in it with a knife so that the gravy may be ex- tracted easily; then put it into the stewpan with about 3 quarts of water. Chop ij lbs. of potatoes up fine, and add them with the green peas and the rice to the liquor. Let it all simmer for two hours and a half; then take out the meat, strain off the liquor, and rub the peas potatoes, and rice through a sieve. Cut 2 heads of celeiy into thin 1. Spitchcock Eels. 2. Roast Sirloin of Beef. 4. Mashed Potatoes. 5. Canton Pudding. 1. Beef Soup. 2. Croquets of Beef. 3. Vegetables. 4. Welsh Pudding.