431 light dishes for supper. batter. Serve very hot, and quickly, without gravy. Sufficient for 4 persons. Sausage Rolls.—Takt equal portions of cold roast veal and ham, or cold fowl and tongue ; chop these together very small, and season with a tea-spoonful of powdered sweet herbs, and a spoonful of mixed salt and soluble cayenne pepper; mix well together; put 3 table-spoonfuls of the chopped and seasoned meat well rolled together into enough light puff-paste to cover it. When you have used up the whole of your material, bake for half an hour in a good brisk oven. Broiled Partridge.—(September i to February 7.)—Pluck, draw, and cut three partridges in half, and thoroughly wipe the inside with a damp cloth. Season them with salt and cayenne; broil them over a very clear fire ; put them on a hot dish; rub a little butter over each half, and have brown gra\y or mushroom sauce with them. Baked Sprats and Herrings.—Wash and drain without wiping them ; season with allspice in fine powder, a few whole cloves, and salt; lay them in a pan with a few bay leaves, an onion, and plenty of black pepper; add equal quantity of vinegar and small beer to cover ^&ra. Put paper over the pan, and bake them in a slow oven (gut, but do not open them). If liked to look red, throw saltpetre over them the night before. Poached Eggs.—To prevent the unsightly admixture of the yolk with the white, so often observed in poached eggs, observe the following simple method :—Use a large saucepan, nearly filled with boiling water; pour a couple of table-spoonfuls of hot water into a saucer; break the egg carefully into the centre of the saucer, then gently lift it and place it on the surface of the water in the saucepan; the instant you perceive the yolk set, take out the saucer, and remove the egg with a slice to the dish required. Dress the number you wish for separately; as the time occupied is so short, there is little risk of the spinach, bacon, or what- ever else you are about to use, becoming cold. Oyster Sausages.—Beard, rinse well in their strained liquor, and mince, but not finely, 3^ dozen of plump native oysters, and mix them with 10 oz. of fine bread-crumbs, and 10 oz. of beef suet chopped extremely small; add a salt-spoonful of salt, and i salt-spoonful of pepper, or less than half of cayenne, twice as much pounded mace, and the third of a small nutmeg grated. Moisten the whole with 2 unbeaten eggs, or with the yolks only of 3, and a dessert-spoonful of the whites. When these ingredients are well worked together, and perfectly blended, set the mixture in a cool place for two or three hours before it is used ; make it into the form of small sausages or sausage cakes ; flour and fry them in butter of a fine light brown, or throw them into boiling water (or three minutes; drain and let them become cold ; dip them into egg