THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 222 to a boil, take it up, arrange it in your glass dessert-dish; skim and reduce the syrup, and when a little cooled pour it over the fruit. 4. CURRANT CAKES, CLEAR. Strain some fresh currant-juice through a gauze sieve; put 18 oz. of the finest loaf sugar in powder to every pint of juice. Put it into a preserving-pan over the fire, and stir it until it nearly boils; skim it carefully ; withdraw it from the fire, and put it into small shallow trays, which should be first rubbed over with greased muslin. Keep them in a dry warm place till they will turn out of the moulds, then place them in a very slack oven to harden. Put them between paper to pack them for use. 5. COMPOTE DE FRAMBOISES. Take a quart of either red or white raspberries ; carefully stem them without bruising the fruit; place them in a stewpan, and pour upon them a boiling syrup, made with a pound of loaf sugar and half a pint of water; put them over the fire, and let them just come to a boil, withdraw them, and when cool enough, put them into your compotier, and pour the syrup over them. 6. CERISES GROSEILLEES. Take a pint of ripe cherries; cut off the stems to within an inch of the fruit; prick them with a needle, and sift over them hal a poun of powdered sugar. Let them stand a night. Dissolve a pound of loaf sugar in a pint of currant juice; when it boils, put m the cherries, and simmer them gently for a few minutes ; take them out vnth a skimmer boil down the syrup until it is very thick, pour it over them, and ser as required. 7. COMPOTE OF GREENGAGES. Boil in a pint of water a little grape juice or vinegar ; tabe your greengages and prick them with a coarse needle ; throw them_ into the water fet them boil up; then take them out, and throw them into cold water.’ Make a strong syrup; when it boils, them for about five minutes, arrange them in a dessert-dish, reduce U syrup, let it cool, and pour it over the fruiL 8. BLACK, RED, OR WHITE CURRANT JELLY. Slightly bruise your fruit, and put it in a jar; place this in a cool