THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 172 days they will be fit to eat. Skin and rub them with egg,, and strew crumbs over them. Lay them before the fire, and baste with butter until brown enough. Serve with egg sauce. This will prove excellent in the country especially, where there is no regular supply of fish. A haddock ot 2 or 3 lbs. weight, done the above way, is very good. 2. Mution Cutlets i la Italienne.—Cut out a cutlet between each bone. Rub a saucepan over with butter, lay them in, and about a quarter of an hour before dishing the dinner fry them a light brown, and pour an Italian sauce in the centre. French beans, peas, stewed lettuce, spinach, or mashed turnips may be placed in the centre, when in season. 3. Spinach.—Few vegetables require more care in their preparation for table than spinach. It should be quite fresh, in the first place, and taken leaf by leaf from the stalks ; by this means a peculiar vegetable fibre, resembling hair, and constantly found on spinach beds, mil be avoided. Wash the leaves in two or three large panfuls of water, drain through a cullender, and then dry them well in a coarse cloth. Select a good-sized saucepan, put three table-spoonfuls of salt into the water; as soon as it boils clear away the scum, and then throw in the spinach, which, being light, will float on the surface, and will require to be forced into the water with a large fork or spoon. Ten mmutes’ boiling is enough. Drain off the water, place the spinach between two wooden trenchers, and squeeze out as much water as possible; then chop it quite fine, after which give it another pressure with the trenchers. As it is essential to serve it to table quite hot, put it into a stew-pan with the juice of a lemon squeezed over it, and half a tea-spoonful of salt. Let it be spread equally on a dish for serving, and divided into portions. 4. Brighton Budding.—Take 3 eggs, i lb. of sugar, I lb. of flour, ^ lb. of butter, and the peel of a lemon finely minced. Beat the sugar and ecrgs for twenty minutes. Oil the butter, and mix it and the flour m at the last. Steam the pudding for one hour. Serve without sauce, only with preserve. JUNE 9. m are amused through the intellect, but it is the heart that saves us from eunuil—Madame Switchine. Bread and Butter Pudding. Vegetables. 1. Pot au Feu. 2. Lamb Chops and Asparagus. 3- 4- I. Bot au Put the meat into a stock-pot full of water, set it over a slow fire, and let it gently boil, carefully taking off the scum that w U rise to the top. Pour in a tea-cupful of cold water to help the scum