SUGGESTIONS FOR DINNER PARTIES. 3:7 see, I would have one or more sets of cruets upon the table, according to the size of the party, and containing those things which are con- tinually wanted, and which it is desirable to have at hand. Whatever dish is placed upon the table, it ought to be preceded by all its minor adjuncts, and accompanied by the proper vegetables, quite hot, so that it may be enjoyed entirely and at once. I am an advocate for dumb waiters; and the smaller the party is, the more they are de- sirable, because attendants are a restraint upon conversation, and upon one’s ease in general. With respect to the dinner itself, there are two kinds of dinners; one simple, consisting of a few dishes ; the other, embracing a variety. Both kinds are good in their way, and both deserving attention; but for constancy I greatly prefer the simple style. In the first place, it is necessary not to be afraid of not having enough, and so to go into the other extreme, and have a great deal too much, as is almost invariably the practice. It is also necessary not to be afraid of the table looking bare, and so to crowd it with dishes not wanted, or before they are wanted, whereby they become cold and sodden. ‘ Enough is as good as a feast,’ is a sound maxim, as well in providing as in eating. The advantages of having only enough are these :—It saves expense, trouble, and attendance; it removes temptation, and induces contentment; and it affords the best chance of having a well-dressed dinner, by concen- trating the attention of the cook. The having too much, and setting dishes on the table merely for appearance, are practices arising out of prejudices, which, if once broken through, would be looked upon, and deservedly, as the height of vulgarity. In proportion to the smallness of dinner ought to be its excellence, both as to the quality of the materials and the cooking. When the materials and the cooking are of the best, and the dinner is served according to the most approved rules of comfort, the plainest, cheapest food has attractions, which is seldom to be found in the most laboured attempts. In general, there is far too little attention paid to varying the mode of dining according to the temperature of the seasons. Summer din- ners are, for the most part, as heavy and as hot as those in winter, and the consequence is they are frequently very oppressive. In hot weather they ought to be of a light, cooling nature, and accompanied with beverages well iced, rather than witli pure wine, especially of the stronger kinds. I cannot think there is any danger from such diet to those who use it moderately. The danger, I apprehend, lies in excess, from the pleasure felt in allaying thirst and heat The season in which Nature produces fruits and vegetables in the greatest abundance, is surely that in which they ought to be most used. In hot weather, the