400 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. II. Catilijlozvcr.—Trim and wash the cauliflower; divide it into branches, and leave it in cold water for two hours. Place the flower upon a drainer; put it into boiling water, with a table-spoonful of salt, and boil (uncovered) for a quarter of an hour. Drain and serve, with the following sauce poured over:—Beat the yolks of 2 fresh eggs with ^ a gill of thick cream, and stir into the third of a pint of boiling milk for three minutes. 13. Braised Duck, with young Peas.—Chop quite small 4 spring onions, 2 sage leaves, and 4 sprigs of parsley; season with half a salt- spoonful of salt, a quarter of a salt-spoonful of pepper, and the tenth part of a nutmeg grated. Knead these with i oz. of butter, and put it into the body of the duck; spread 3 oz. of butter over the breast; lay on the bottom of the stewpan 4 large leaves of fresh-cut lettuce; place the duck upon them, cover closely, and let it bruise or simmer till of a pale brown colour (about half an hour); then add three-quarters of a pint of stock or plain veal gravy. Continue to simmer for twenty minutes ; then take out the duck, and put it in a quick oven for ten minutes; skim the gravy, and rub it through a fine sieve; put it back into the stewpan, with rather more than i pint of fresh-shelled young peas, I tea-spoonful of loaf sugar, and i. salt-spoonful of salt; boil rapidly (uncovered) for ten minutes; put in the duck, and simmer gently for twenty-five minutes more. Place the duck on a hot dish; pull out the skewers; pour the peas and gravy into the dish, and serve at once. 14. Asparagus Pudding.—Cut up the nice green tender parts of asparagus about the size of peas; put them into a basin with the eggs, which should be well beaten, and the flour, ham, butter, pepper, and salt. Mix all these ingredients well together, and moisten with sufficient milk to make the pudding of the consistency of thick batter; put it into a pint buttered mould, tie it down tightly with a floured cloth, place it in boiling water, and let it boil for two hours ; turn it out of the mould on to a hot dish, and pour plain melted butter roufid, but not over, the pudding. 16. Gooseberry Charlotte.—Equal weight of gooseberries and loaf sugar; boil and stir till in a soft rich pulp, then rub through a fine sieve. Stone the plums, blanch the kernels, put them with the fruit and two-thirds of the weight of loaf sugar, and boil till in a rich jam (whether greengages or apricots), and put in a mould till cold. 17. Lemon Cream.—Dissolve a lb. of loaf sugar and three-quarters of an ounce of isinglass in i gill of water; add the thin rind and strained juice of 2 lemons; boil and skim till it becomes a bright rich syrup, then strain, and whisk it into i pint and i gill of thick, sweet cream till it begins to thicken; pour it into a mould, and place it on ice till firmly set.