148 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. MAY 13. To matters of conscience," first thoughts are best; in matters of''prudence," last thoughts are best'—Rev. Robert Hall. 1. Soup A LA Cleremont. 2. Hashed Heart. 3. Spring Cabbages. 4. Cranberry Tart and Cream. I. Soup ct la Cleremont.—from 12 to 18 small onions, cut off the stalk ends, cut the onions in slices, and separate each slice into rings; fry them in butter, with a tea-spoonful of sugar. When of a nice browi put them on the back of a sieve to drain and become dry. Put them into 2 quarts of veal consomme to boil gently for half an hour, carefully skimming off the grease. Cut the crumb of a rasped French roll into dice, or else into rings, with small cutters, to make them similar to the onions; put the bits of bread into the tureen, pour the soup on them, and serve. ^ 2 Hashed Heart.—Oo-t the meat into slices, not too thick. Put what remains of the stuffing, jelly, etc., into sufficient beef ^avy to cover the meat 3 warm this up quickly, and when it is quite hot put the slices 3 but if you suffer the sauce to boil, you will render the meat too hard for mastication. 3 spring Cahhages.—These should be carefully looked over to remove worm or grub, and washed very clean. Have plenty ready in which a table-spoonful of salt has been mixed; boil for twenty rSinutes ;Ind if due care be taken, the vegetables will return their proper Want 0-»w.-Wash a quart of hemes m several watrs dry them on a coarse doth, and pick them carefully. Mix them Tn abilwith a quarter of a pound of finely-powdered white sugar, and squeeze “hr^tice of half a lemon over the fruit. Put all into a pie-dish, Sve a light paste ready for the top, and bake for forty minutes. —0- MAY 14. * If you tell your troubles to ag(xiii when you God, you put them into the grave ; they will never have commuted them to 7A/«.’-Spurgeon. rise 1. Pickled Salmon. 2. Boiled Leg of Lamb. 3. Vegetables. 4. Lemon Pudding. r. to exctade‘'’the*at. ‘'put soiu< rfSe"u was boiled in with an equal quantity of vinegar; half a.