85 BILL OF FARE FOR MARCH. do not let it boil. Serve it vvith the crust of a French roll, cut into the size of a shilling. 2. Haunch of Venison and Mashed Potatoes.—After the haunch has been well rubbed till quite dry with a coarse cloth, envelope it com- pletely in buttered white paper; then lay a paste of flour and water, about half an inch in thickness, over the fat portion; secure this by other sheets of paper, and tie them on with flat narrow tape j put the haunch into a cradle spit, and be sure that the fire is strong and bright; begin to baste with clarified dripping immediately, or the paper will be destroyed. You may allow from ten to fifteen minutes to every lb., according to the size of the joint. Twenty minutes before it is com- pletely roasted, take off the papers and paste, and baste with fresh butter, using flour to froth it. It is usual to put a paper frill round the knuckle. Serve with gravy-sauce, quite plain, and dissolved currant jelly. 3. Sauce.—Take a sufficient quantity of the liquor in which the meat was boiled; put in, to your taste, currant jelly, wine, pepper, and salt; boil all up, and thicken with scorched flour mixed with a little water. 4. Omelette Soufflee.—Break up half a dozen eggs, separate tlie whites from the yolks; into the latter mix 2 table-spoonfuls of grated lemon- peel and 4 of finely - powdered sugar; whisk up the whiles for ten minutes, add the froth to the yolks just before frying. Melt ^ lb. of butter in a pan, and put in the eggs; as soon as they are quite set, slant the frying-pan and turn them over. Have the dish on which you mean to serve well buttered, strew powdered sugar over the omelet, and brown the top with a salamander. march 2. Sometimes speak to Cod, at other times hear Him speak to you. Let Him regulate your soul.’—St. Cyprian. * 1. Oyster Soup. 2. Mashed Potatoes. 2. Hashed Venison and Currant 4. Hannah More’s Pudding Jelly. 1. Oyster Soup. Get 4 lbs. of skate, boil it down over a slow fire, with abundance of water, till you have the quantity you require to fill a tureen. When you have made this jelly-broth, add salt, spice, etc. to your taste, and twenty minutes before serving throw in 3 dozen oysters with their liquor strained through a fine sieve. ’ 2. Hashed Venison and Currant Jelly.—CooV in its own gravy, which first strain and heat, thickened with a little butter and flour; then put