368 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. DECEMBER 29. ‘ Say what is prayer, when it is prayer indeed ? The mighty utterance of a mighty need.'—Archbishop Trench. 1. Flemish Soup. 1 3- Omelet Soufflee. 2. Broiled Fowl. | 4- Vegetables. 1. Flemish Soup.—Put 2 oz. of butter into a stewpan, with a suffi- ciency of stock or good broth that has been well skimmed. Into this slice 6 onions and 3 heads of celery cut into small pieces. Set it over a slow fire to boil gently for one hour. At the same time peel and quarter a dozen middle-sized potatoes, and put them on in a separate saucepan to boil. This is done because potatoes ought not to be cooked in any soup, hash, or made dish of which they are to form part, as the water that comes from them contains a principle that disagrees with many stomachs. When the quartered potatoes are done enough, drain them a minute or two, and add them to the sliced onions and celery. Season with a little pepper and salt. When the potatoes are quite dissolved, rub the whole through an iron-wire sieve; add a pint of cream, and give it a boil. A little macaroni broken into short lengths, boiled tender in milk, and thrown into the soup just before going to table, is a great improvement. 2. Broiled Fowl—hX a quiet repast you may be content with broiled fowl; on a state occasion you must have spread eagle, and Uuo of them, if only to display the double head and neck. For the former, you may cut off the neck an inch above its junction with the body, and remove the shanks entirely; for the latter, you must retain head, neck, and all, and leave the legs pheasant-length. Singe your fowl, empty it, decapitate the head and neck, amputate the shanks. Split it open down the back, from the insertion of the neck to the rump. Lay it open, press it flat, and keep it flat with the aid of skewers and string. When nicely arranged, put it into a stewpan with just enough water to cover it, and a tea-spoonful of salt. Put in also the head and neck cut into 3 or 4 pieces, the gizzard, heart, liver, and the two white kidneys, if any. Let these boil gently until the fowl is cooked, but slightly underAont. Take it out and set it aside to cool: it may be kept in that state till next day, or whenever wanted. Take out also the liver and kidneys, cut off the wattles and comb, and take the brains from the head; put them aside. Let the rest continue to boil, to make The heart and gizzard quite tender, and extract all the goodness from the head and neck. For the Sauce to Broiled Fowl,—Fry sliced onions, in a stewqian, in butter ; add a little flour; moisten with the boilings of the fowl, stirring to keep all smooth; remove the onions j season with pepper, salt, and