45S THINGS A LADY WOULD LLKE TO KNOW. Soda Negus.—A most refreshing and elegant beverage, particularly for those who do not take punch or grog, is thus made :—Put a pint of port wine, with 4 lumps of sugar, 3 cloves, and enough grated nut- meg to cover a shilling, into a saucepan; warm it well, but do not suffer it to boil; pour it into a bowl or jug, and upon the warm wine decant a bottle of soda water. You will have an effervescing and deli- cious negus by this means. Cherry Brandy.—Put into a wide-necked bottle as many Morelia cherries as it will hold; add a few peach or nectarine kernels, or bitter almonds; fill the bottle with the best French brandy, and cork do\vn. In a month after, add a ^ of a lb. of loaf sugar to every pint of brandy. Elder Wine.—In 2 gallons of water boil i gallon of elder berries for one hour, or until the berries sink. For every gallon of liquor provide 3-|- lbs. of sugar; strain the liquor over the sugar; when nearly cold, add a little yeast. The next day put it into a cask, and let it work till it has ceased to make any hissing noise. Boil 2 or 3 cloves of ginger, a few cloves, and some allspice for a short time ; then put them in a small muslin bag, adding a pebble, that the spice may sink to the bottom of the cask. Bung down close. If you make 9 gallons of wine, you will require about 4^ oz. of the above spice for that quantity. The addition of a few sloes or damsons will be found a great improve- ment. Raspberry, Strawbei'ry, Ctirrant or Orange E^ervescing Draughts.— Take i quart of the juice of either of the above fruits; filter it, and boil it into a syrup with i lb. of powdered loaf sugar. To this add li oz. of tartaric acid. When cold, put it into a bottle, and keep it well corked. When required for use, fill a half-pint tumbler three parts full of water, and add 2 table-spoonfuls of the syrup. Then stir in briskly a small tea-spoonful of carbonate of soda, and a very delicious drink will be formed. The colour may be improved by adding a very small portion of cochineal to the syrup at the time of boiling. Ginger Beer.—Pour 4 quarts of boiling water upon i lb. of loaf sugar, I oz. of powdered ginger, and the rind of a lemon chopped fine ; cover it over, and let it stand for six hours; then add i oz. of cream of tartar, the juice of a lemon, and a table-spoonful of yeast; three hours after, you can begin to bottle, tying the corks well down. If kept in a warm place it will be fit for use in twenty-four hours. Champagne d la Minute.—If you are about to drink sharp cider, put half a tea-spoonful of carbonate of soda, and a dessert-spoonful of finely- powdered sugar at the bottom of your glass; have the cider poured on this, and you will allow that it is a very pleasant, though humble, imi- tation of champagne. Drink for the Dog Days.—A bottle of soda water poured into a large