THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 2S2 DESSERT FOR THE MONTH OF SEPTEMBER. Centre-piece, a basket of fresh flowers. 1. Compote d’epine-vinette. 2. Compote de pommes a l’espag- NOLE. 3. Citron Macaroons. 4. Gelee d’epine-vinette. Filberts, Apples, Figs, Grapes. I. COMPOTE d’epine-vinette. Take a lb. of ripe barberries ; do not stem them, but let them remain in bunches; boil them slowly in a strong syrup of sugar and water for seven minutes, strain them from the syrup, arrange them in a glass dessert-dish, and before pouring the syrup over them, add to them a small glass of eau-de-vie. This compote is greatly improved by the addition of a little jelly, or fresh fruit juice, to give colour to the syrup. 2. COMPOTE DE POMMES A l’eSPAGNOLE. Peel 9 or 10 small pippins, core them carefully so as not to de- stroy the appearance of the fruit; as you do them, throw them into a stewpan in which you have a quart of water, the juice of two lemons, and a lb. of loaf sugar ; add two chopped dressing apples ; place it over the fire and simmer it slowly. When the pippins are tender, take them up and arrange them in your dish. Reduce the S3uup until it gives away from the sides of the saucepan; pour it into as many small cups as you have pippins. When it is cold and firm, turn one over each of the pippins, and serve. 3. CITRON MACAROONS. Take the rasped rind of two lemons, and a lb. and 12 oz. each of blanched sweet almonds and fine dry sifted loaf sugar. Pound the almonds, citron rind, and the whites of four eggs in^ a mortar; add your sugar; beat all well together, and form the paste into small balls ; lay them upon paper, glaze them, and bake them for fifteen or hventy minutes. 4. GELEE d’epine-vinette. Choose some fine ripe barberries, stem them, and to each lb. of fruit put 12 oz. of loaf sugar and half a pint of water; put them into a jar or saucepan, and dress them until they are soft, then press them throug i a gauze sieve ; take the juice that is obtained, and simmer it down until it is thick enough.