BILL OF FARE FOR JULY. 219 dish in a moderate oven. Make a sauce of the liquor that comes from the fish with a piece of butter, a little flour, a tea-spoonful of essence of anchovies, a glass of port or sheiTy, and the juice of half a lemon. Boil it, and serve it in a sauce-boat, and the fish in their paper cases. 2. White Fricassee of Rabbit.—Be careful to take away all the interior of the rabbits usually left after casing, and cut off the heads; wash them repeatedly in cold water till the flesh is perfectly white. Put them into a saucepan of boiling water, and, as soon as it boils up again, take out the rabbits and cut them into joints. Thicken a pint of milk mth flour and butter; add a little mace, nutmeg, lemon-juice, salt, and white pepper; put this into a stewpan with the flesh, cover carefully down, and let it simmer for half an hour. The sauce should be as thick as cream, and as white as snow, if properly dressed. 4. Sweet 07?ielet.—To i gill of cream or good milk put 4 well-beaten eggs, sugar, nutmeg, or cinnamon, and a small pinch of salt; fry a nice light brown on a slow fire; sift fine sugar over. JULY SO. 'If the world be in the middle of the heart, it will be often shaken, for all there is con- tinual motion and change; but God in it keeps it stable.'—Archbishop Leighton. 1. Pea Soup. 3. Vegetables. 2. Pork Kabob. 4. Shropshire Dumplings. 1. Pea Soup.—0\sQ pint of split peas, 3 quarts of spring water, 6 large onions, outside sticks of 2 heads of celery, i bunch of sweet herbs, 2 carrots, a little dried mint, a handful of spinach, a few bones or tiny pieces of bacon j flavour it nicely ; pepper and salt to your taste. Boil all these vegetables together till they are quite soft and tender; strain them through a hair-sieve, pressing the carrot pulp through it! Then boil the soup well for an hour with the best part of the celery and a tea-spoonful of pepper; add a little dried mint and fried bread, with a little spinach. ’ 2. Pork Kabob.—four pork chops, not too fat; peel a couple of dumpling apples, and cut a couple of slices from the centre of each, avoiding the core; cut a Spanish onion into slices, select four of tlie largest; attach with small skewers to each chop a slice of apple and a slice of onion; fasten them together with twine, and roast before a bright fire for half an hour, basting well. Serve them quite hot, with some fresh mustard, soluble cayenne, salt, and mashed potatoes. 4- Shropshire Dimplings.—YM\i about 3 oz. of butter into 2 lbs. of our; add a little salt and a few currants ; mix them up in rather a stiff