3S7 'PARTY' DINNER FOR EE PR DARK minutes; pound the whole (except the whites of the eggs) till in a paste ; season with ^ a salt-spoonful of white pepper, a salt-spoonful of flour of mustard, a salt-spoonful of salt, the sixth part of a nutmeg grated, the grated rind of ^ a lemon, a salt-spoonful of mixed sweet herbs, and a tea-spoonful of finely-chopped parsley; add 2 well-beaten eggs; clean and slice 3 truffles, mix them with the stuffing. Raise the skin from the upper part of the breast, lay in as much forcemeat as it will contain to look well, put the remainder into the body, cover the capon with paper spread with butter (3 oz.), and roast before a good fire for an hour and a half, basting frequently. Serve with gravy made as directed in the preceding receipt. 9. Saddle of Mutton, Sea Kale, etc.—The saddle should be hung for ten days. Dredge it with dry flour; put it into a sheet of paper, thickly spread with sweet dripping; hang it before a good fire, quite close, for twenty minutes, then at a distance, till done. A quarter of an hour before serving, take off the paper; put ^ a salt-spoon of salt into a tea- cupful of boiling water, pour it over the mutton, then baste till slightl)) browned. Pour off the fat, and serve the dripped gravy in the dish. Send to table very hot, and with a pot of red currant jelly turned out on a plate. Note.—A saddle, to be underdone, will require only seven minutes to the pound; with the gravy in, ten minutes ; and well done, a quarter of an hour. In frosty weather, add a quarter of an hour for the joint (in each case) extra. 10. Conservative Pudding.—Four oz. of sponge cake, an oz. of ratafias, oz. of macaroons. Put them into a basin, and pour over i a gill of rum and a gill of good cream; add 6 well-beaten eggs; beat for ten minutes. Butter a pint mould, stick it tastefully with preserved cherries; put*in the pudding, tie it over with writing paper spread with butter, and steam over fast-boiling water for an hour and a half. Turn out carefully, and serve with clarified sugar (flavoured with almond) in the dish, not poured over the pudding. Three oz. of loaf sugar, a laurel leaf, and \ a gill of water, boiled ten minutes, will make the sauce. 11. Raspberry Cream for ditto.—a gill and a half of good cream with a small pot of raspberry jam; strain through a sieve to take out the pips; whip again. 12. Blancmange.—Have ready the following ingredients One oz. of the best isinglass, 5 oz. of loaf sugar, 2 inches of stick vanilla, 2 inches of cinnamon, a pint of new milk, a gill of rich cream, 10 bitter and 2 oz of sweet almonds; blanch the almonds and pound them to paste • add by degrees, while pounding, the third of a pint of cold water • let it stand for two hours, then strain off the liquid. Put the milk,'su"^ar