* PARTY' DINNER FOR JUNE. 403 of parsley, and boil till reduced to the third of a pint; knead x oz. ol butter with a dessert-spoonful of baked flour, and stir in; boil five minutes, then strain. Put the sauce again into the saucepan; add the well-beaten yolks of 2 eggs; simmer for two minutes, and serve in the centre of the cutlets. 7. Roast Pigeons.—Knead together 2 oz. of butter, 2 dessert-spoon- fuls of dried fine crumbs of bread, a grain of cayenne, a. ^ of a. salt-spoonful of salt, the same of pepper, a salt-spoonful of chopped parsley, the tenth part of a nutmeg grated, and i small shalot finely chopped. Have 2 young pigeons, and put half of the stuffing into each; roast before a very quick fire for fifteen or eighteen minutes, basting constantly with butter. Serve with or without gravy. 8. Fore-quarter of Lamb.—This joint should weigh about 9 lbs. Cover it with white paper, spread thickly with sweet dripping (or butter), hang it before a large fire, and roast for two hours and a quarter, constantly basting. Three-quarters of an hour before serving, take off the paper; dredge the lamb slightly with baked flour; con- tinue to baste till of a delicate brown colour in every part; just before taking it up, baste with i oz. of dissolved butter. Place the joint on a hot dish, and, with a sharp knife, divide the shoulder from the ribs • rub the ribs over wth a thin slice of fresh butter (about i oz.), and drop equally over the strained juice of a small lemon, then replace the shoulder. Pour olf the fat; add a tea-cupful of boiling water and a salt-spoonful of salt to the gravy dripped from the lamb; pour the gravy into the dish (not over the meat), and send to table immediately with mint sauce in a tureen, and a separate hot dish to receive the shoulder. 9. Mint Sauce. Chop the leaves of fresh, well-washed mint quite fine; mix equal quantities of mint, moist sugar, and good vinegar, about 2 table-spoonfuls of each. ’ • Praised Duck, with Turnips.—Peel 8 or 10 small turnips; sift a dessert-spoonful of loaf sugar over them; dissolve 6 oz. of butter, and fry the turnips to a pale brown colour (in a stewpan); add 2 oz. more butter, and an onion chopped; put in, breast downwards, a fine duck, and let it remain to brown for twenty minutes. Take out the duck' stir into the butter 2 dessert-spoonfuls of baked flour, a tea-spoonful of soy, a salt-spoonful of salt, half a salt-spoonful of pepper, and three- quarters of a pint of any good stock. Boil fast, and skim off all the fat; then add a wine-glassful of Marsala and the strained juice of a lemon; put in the duck, breast uppermost, and simmer gently for twenty minutes; add the turnips, and continue to simmer twenty mmutes more. Pfece the duck on a hot dish, the turnip round it and the gravy poured over. Serve at once. ’