THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 322 NOVEMBER 13. ‘ Our acts make or mar us ; we are the children oj our own deeds'—Victor Huca I. Sucking Pig. | 2. Wyvern Puddings. 3. Vegetables. 1. Sucking Piq.—It should not be much more than three weeks old, and is much better if you can get it when just killed. Let it be scalded (which is usually done by the dealers); then put about 15 sage leaves minced, pepper and salt to taste, and about 6 oz. of bread well mixed, and put into the body and send it up neatly. Then skewer the legs back, or the under part will not crisp. Lay it to a brisk clear fire (not too near) till thoroughly dry; have ready some butter tied up in a thin dry cloth, and rub the pig with it in every part. Dredge as much flour over it as will possibly lie, and do not touch it again till ready to ser\'e. Then scrape off the flour very carefully with a blunt knife, rub it well with the buttered cloth, and take off the head while at the fire; take out the brains and mix them with the gravy that comes from the pig (many send it to table whole, the head only being cut off to garnish). Then take it up, and without withdrawing the spit, cut it down the back and belly; lay it into a hot dish, and chop the sage and bread quickly as fine as you can, and mix them with a large quantity of fine melted butter that has very little flavour. Put the sauce into the dish after the pig has been split down the back and garnished with the ears and the two jaws; take off the upper part of the head down to the snout. 2. W^yvern Puddings.—Three-quarters of a pint of milk, 3 enough flour to make a thick batter, raspberry jam. Make a nice batter of the milk, flour, and eggs. Butter some patty-pans. Pour the batter into them till they are three-parts full; bake them. When done, place them on a folded napkin, and put jam on the top of them. —0- NOVEMBER 14. ‘ Ijyou wish to appear agreeable in society, you must consent to be taught many things which you know already.'—Lavater. 1. Fried Soles. 2. Venison. 3. Sauce to ditto. 4. Bath Pudding. 5. Vegetables. 2. Vension.-YLz.vt the haunch properly trimmed by removing the chine and knuckle bones, which stew to make the gravy. Cover the haunch either with a lamb’s caul, or two or three folds of paper to pro- tect the fat from burning. Roast before a slow fire, basting for some