THINGS A LADY WOULD LAKE TO KNOW. 5° JANUARY 2 3. ' Would you both please and be insirucied too. Watch well the rage of shining to subdue.'—StiI-LINGFLEET. 1. Baked Cod’s Head. 2. Giblet Pie. 3. Potatoes. 4. Baroness Pudding. I. Baked Cod’s Head.—Butter your baking-dish, clean the head well, lav it in the dish; put in an onion stuck with cloves, a bundle of sweet herbs a small spoonful of black and white pepper, 3 or 4 blades of mace, a nutmeg bruised, a quart of water, a little lemon-peel, and a small piece of horseradish. Rub the head with butter, and strew bread- crumbs over it, then send it to the oven. When done, take it out of the dish, and lay it carefully in the one in which you intend to serve Set the dish over boiling water, and cover it up to keep it hot; in the meantime, pour all the liquor out of the dish m which it was baked into a saucepan, set it on to boil three or four minutes, then strain it, and put to it a gill of red wine, 2 spoonfuls of ketchup, a pint of shrimp , Ld i pint of oysters or mussels, with the liquor. After strainmg it, add a spoonful of mushroom-pickle, ^ lb. of butter rolled in flour, and stir all together till it boils; pour this into the dish, and have ready toasted bread, cut in three-corner pieces and fried crisp, of wh ch stick pieces about the head and mouth, and lay the rest round t dish ^Garnish with lemon, scraped horseradish and parsley ensped before the fire. Lay i slice of lemon on the head, and serve p ^'°2 GHet Fie.—Ta-ke 2 sets of giblets nicely cleaned; put all but the’livers into a saucepan, with 2 quarts of water, 20 corns of 'vhde toper 3 blades of mace, a large onion, and a bunch of sweet herbs covL cite and stew them till they are tender; then have a good crus ready cover the dish, lay a fine rumpsteak at the bottoni, seasone ready, eiblets with the livers, and strain the iilrTlcf * s“ :td f« i. wi.h pepper arrd saU. p^r i, too the pie; put on the top crust, and bake tt an hour and a p Miner Prenare # lb. of suet, by carefully freeing 4. JSarmess ~j ib. of raisins (weigh them It from skm, and c p both these ingre- after being stoned), . ^^Qigten the dients ■' "be „ii«ui well, and tie the pudding flomed d«h\vhich'has been previously wrung out in boihng