402 THINGS A LADY WOULD LUCE TO ICNOW. fire for eighteen or twenty minutes. Drain, and serve on a cold dish, with the following sauce in the centre:—Boil 5 eggs for twelve minutes, and, when quite cold, pound the yolks to powder. Mix in a salt-spoon- ful of salt, a tea-spoonful of flour of mustard, and a quarter of a grain of cayenne ; beat the yolks of 2 fresh eggs, and stir in (always turning the same way) till quite smooth; then add, drop by drop, seven table- spoonfuls of the finest salad (Lucca) oil, 3 tea-spoonfuls of tarragon vinegar, and 3 table-spoonfuls of French vinegar. Set the mortar in a cold place, or on ice for an hour; then stir in a tea-spooijful of finely-chopped chives or shalot, and serve as directed. Note.—The sauce should be made half an hour before the fish is commenced. It should be perfectly smooth, and of the consistency of very thick cream, which entirely depends on the care in making. 4. Stewed Whiting.—Take off the skin and the heads and tails; lay the fish in a stewpan, and season each one with a quarter of a salt-spoon- ful of salt, I grain of white pepper, a quarter of a salt-spoonful of mixed sweet herbs in powder, and for the whole (4 or 6) the grated rind of half a lemon. Pour in a lb. of dissolved butter; simmer for ten minutes; add a large wine-glassful of Marsala, and the strained juice of a lemon. Simmer five minutes more; place the fish neatly on a hot dish, and pour the sauce over. Send to table immediately. 5. Sweetbread, with Truffles.—Blanch the sweetbreads in boiling water five minutes, and in cold for one hour; remove the fat, skin, and pith ; dry them, and dredge them lightly with baked flour; place them on a tin dish, baste well with dissolved butter (a lb.), and bake till nicely browned, about half an hour. Peel and slice 6 fresh truffles; put them into a stewpan, with a gill of Marsala, a salt-spoonful of salt, a salt- spoonful of white pepper, the strained juice of a large lemon. Simmer ten minutes ; add a gill of stock. Knead a dessert-spoonful of baked flour with 2 oz. of butter, and stir in for five minutes. Put in the sweet- breads, and continue to simmer half an hour longer, then serve. 6. Lamb Cutlets, with White Sauce.—Q.\xt up any joint of cold roast lamb into slices the third of an inch thick; trim them into neatly- formed' cutlets; season 4 oz. of fine crumbs of bread with a salt- apoonful of white pepper, 2 salt-spoonfuls of salt, a tea-spoonful of mixed sweet herbs (in fine powder), a table-spoonful of finely-chopped parsley, and the sixth part of a nutmeg grated; beat i egg, dissolve i oz. of butter. Dip the cutlets into the butter, then into the crumbs; let them stand in a cool place for ten minutes, then dip them into the egg, and again into the crumbs, and fry in 2 oz. of dissolved butter for ten minutes. Place the cutlets round the dish, and serve, with tie sauce made as 'follows :-Put the bones of the lamb into a saucepan with a pint of cold water, a small onion, 2 cloves, a bay leaf, 4 spngs