253 DESSERT FOR A UGUST an hour. Put it into a buttered hoop, and bake it for rather more than an hour in a tolerably quick oven, 5. MACARONS DE HOLLANDE. Blanch and beat to a paste a pound of Jordan almonds, mixing with them the white of an egg and a wine-glassful of the best Hollands; add I lb. of loaf sugar powdered and sifted, and the whisked whites of 4 eggs. Stir all well together; make the paste into balls as large as a walnut, place them on wafer paper, and bake for ten minutes. 6. COMPOTE DE PRUNEAUX. Take sufficient dried French prunes for the purpose, put them into an earthen pipkin, with enough cold water to cover them; set them, over a moderate fire, and let them do slowly until they feel soft to the touch j then add the same weight of loaf sugar as you had of fruit, a glass of port wine, and a little cinnamon. Simmer this slowly for some time longer; strain the prunes from the syrup, reduce the latter, being very particular to skim it thoroughly. When cool enough, pour it over your fruit, which should be arranged in a compotier, or deep glass dish. It is almost needless to observe that compotes are only served cold. 7. COMPOTE DE CITRONS. Perfectly remove the rind and pellicle from 2 or 3 fresh lemons, cut them into rather thin slices and take out the pips. Put the fruit into a strong syrup made with 12 oz. of loaf sugar, a tea-cupful of water, and a tea-cupful of either white currant or apple jelly. Simmer it gently for some minutes; take up the lemon, arrange it in a dessert-dish, and, when sufficiently cooled, pour over it the syrup. 8. SAFFRON CAKE. Make a strong infusion of saffron in i pint of new milk, which is done by placing the saffron and milk in a cool oven for some time. Strain it, and with one-half put a tea-cupful of yeast, in the other half melt 6 oz. of fresh butter; mix the latter with 2 lbs. of dried flour, add the yeast, 4 eggs well beaten, 4 oz. of powdered loaf sugar, 4 oz. of candied orange-peel, and a dessert-spoonful of powdered ginger. Let It stand for a little while to rise; work it well together, put it into a buttered hoop, and bake it for not quite an hour. When done and