3SS THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. or in long narrow strips) the green tops of asparagus, green kidney beans, green peas (whole); in short, whatever vegetables are in season. Mix these, and put them all together in a stewpan with a good lump of butter and a little sugar and salt. Cover them close, and let them stew a few minutes ; then add your broth, and boil till all the vegetables are thoroughly done. It is not usual to put bread, either in crusts or toasted dice, into julienne soup. Machines or choppers are sold for cutting the vegetables for this wholesome dish; they can also be pur- chased preserved dry. NiE.—When a soup, of whatever kind, strikes you as particularly agreeable to the palate, it is often owing to the unsuspected presence of a very slight dust of sugar. 2. Gigoi au Jus.—Put a nice leg of mutton into your stewpan, with 8 large carrots cut in slices, 12 onions, a calf’s foot, or a lb. of knuckle of veal, and a little salt. Cover all with water, and let it simmer over a gentle fire. When the mutton begins to shrink from the bone, and is about half done, take it out of the stewpan. Let the rest boil, until it is reduced to about 3 pints; then strain it through a napkin or a sieve, pressing the vegetables and veal a little hard. Let it cool to a jelly, and take off the fat. It is better to prepare the dish thus far the day before it is wanted. Replace the leg of mutton in the stewpan with the gravy jelly. Let it boil, close covered, not too fast, a couple of hours, taking care to prevent its burning or sticking to the bottom of the pan. Serve in a deep dish with the gravy, which will be concen- trated and highly flavoured, garnishing the edge with slices of lemon. In the north of England, hot mutton (roast especially) is often accompanied by cold ham; and the association is far from disagreeable. 3. Giblet Pie.—Two sets of giblets are requisite to make a moderately- sized pie. Let these be properly cleaned and half stewed. Cut the liver into 3 pieces, the gizzard into 4, and divide the neck into joints; separate the feet from the legs; strain off the liquor, and put both that and the meat by till perfectly cold; strew a moderate allowance of pepper and salt over the giblets, and do the same by a piece of rump- steak the size of the bottom of your pie-dish ; arrange the gizzards, etc., etc. over the steak, pour in about a tea-cupful of veal stock, cover with puff paste, and bake in a slow oven for an hour and a half. The liquor from the stew will by this time be quite cool enough to skim away the fat; thicken it with a tea-spoonful of flour, a bit of butter the size of a walnut, and add the juice of a lemon; boil this up, and when the pie is sufficiently baked, strain it through a fine sieve; make a hole in the crust, pour in the liquor, replace the paste you have removed, smear the top with the yolk of an egg, and set the pie before the fire for a few minutes. This is an admirable dish hot or cold.