122 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. heads of celery, with a little of the green leaf remaining. When the flesh of the feet will come away from the bones, take them out, and cut them into small pieces, to add to the soup just before serving. When the hocks are well done, they can be taken out, and either have their meat applied to the same purpose, if liked, or be set aside to be eaten cold at breakfast or lunch. When the vegetables are quite tender, take them out, chop them fine, and return them to the soup, or squeeze them into it, through a cullender, into the shape of a purSe. Add the puree of pease to thicken the soup to the consistency liked, throw in the meat of the feet and what you like of the hock; season with cayenne and pepper to taste ; add salt, if needed ; and serve hot. 2. Ca/fs Head Boned.—half a calf’s head, with the skin on, take out the bones, egg the inside well, put in the tongue, and sew the top and bottom together. Put this into a stewpan, with the bones, a pound of gra^7■-beef cut into bits, a bunch of parsley, a handful of sweet herbs, a couple of onions chopped fine, and a tea-spoonful of salt, and half that quantity of soluble cayenne. Fill the stewpan three parts with water, and stew the contents for three hours. When required for table, take out the head, glaze it with egg, and pour a little of the liquor through a sieve into the dish. 4. Macaroni Budding.—Boil 2 oz. in a pint of milk, with a bit of lemon-peel and a good bit of cinnamon, till the pipes are swelled to their utmost size without breaking. Lay them on a custard dish, and pour a custard over them hot, but serve cold. APRIL IS. * Jf thou wouldst know sin's strength., thy lusts hoiu hard to tame, Ao-amst them take up arms, and earnest war proclaim.' * Archbishop Trench. 1. POTAGE A LA JARDINIERE. 2. Aitch Bone of Beef. 3. Vegetables. 4. Ground Rice Pudding. 1. Potage iJ la Jardiniire.—Td^<t potatoes, turnips, carrots, and celery, and leeks in sufficient quantity; cut them m pieces; put them in a steivpan on a gentle fire, and scald them a few minutes in boiling w^en Complete their cooking with broth or soup. When nearly done throw in some green peas, asparagus tops, or other tender vegeubles. as time and place allow. _ r ond 2. Audi Boat oj Beefjoint requires abundance of water, and to be boiled very slowly, allowing an hour for every 5 lbs., or, m short, twelve minutes for each pound. The meat can only be rendered