BILL OF FARE FOR MA Y. 151 2. Roast Pullet—a stuffing with the liver of the fowl or chicken, bruised fine, a little scraped bacon, parsley, and onion chopped fine, and a little panade; season it with pepper, salt, and nutmeg, and bind it with the yolk of an egg. Cover the breast with barbs of bacon, or wrap the fowl in buttered paper; roast it, and when done, brush it over with the yolk of an egg mixed with a little clarified butter; sprinkle it with bread-crumbs so as to form a crust all over it. Brown well, and serve with a sharp sauce. 3. Potatoes.—Select the potatoes of one size, and scrape them quite free from skin; remove all specks, and throw them into cold water; clean them thoroughly, put them into an iron saucepan with a small quantity of water, and sprinkle them slightly with salt Let them boil up quickly, then set them aside to simmer gently. Twenty to thirty minutes will cook them. Try them with a skewer, and when soft through, drain off whatever water may be left. Take away the sauce- pan lid, and substitute a thickly-folded, delicately-clean cloth. In five minutes serve them wrapped in a damask napkin. 4. Praugipane.—Beat up 6 eggs, and add 2 spoonfuls of flour, a spoonful of grated lemon-peel, another of powdered sugar, a table- spoonful of orange-flower water, and half a dozen macaroons, broken up. Put these and a pint of milk into a stewpan over a slow fire; stir it well for twenty minutes; have ready some pattypans lined with puff paste; pour in the ingredients, and bake for twenty minutes. MAY 18. There is a sweet and holy blindness in Christian love, even as there is a blindness of life, yea, and of genius too, in the mome7it of productive energy.'—SiR Thomas Browne. 1. Excellent Soup. 3. Vegetables. 2. Meat and Potato Pie. 4. Sago Pudding. 1. Excellent Soup.—Take a scrag of knuckle of veal, slices of un- dressed gammon of bacon, onions, mace, and a small quantity of water; simmer till very strong, and lower it with good beef broth, made the day before, and stewed till the meat is done to rags. Add a little cream and vermicelli, and gently simmer. 2. Meat and Potato Pie. Mash some potatoes with pepper and salt and milk, and line a baking-dish with the same ; lay on slices of cold meat of any kind, with salt, pepper, butter, and ketchup; lay on more potatoes, then more meat, then another layer of potatoes on the ton. Jjake It till it is quite hot through, 4. Sago Pudding.—Bq\\ a pint and a half of new milk with 4 spoon-