38 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. JANUARY 9 ‘ Good silence is near holiness' 1. Oxtail Soup. 2. Mutton Pie a la Perigord. 3. Potatoes and Brussels Sprouts. 4. Roast Cheese. I. Oxtail Sovp. — OM.\. up 2 fresh oxtails, separating them at the joints; wash, and put in a stewpan with i oz. of butter and 2 slices of ham 3 cut into slices 3 onions, i leek, 2 turnips, 2 carrots, i hea of celery, and add them, with 12 whole peppercorns, a bay-leat, i bunch of savoury herbs, and 4 cloves 3 put in ^ pint of water and stir it over a sharp fire till the juices are drawn. Fill up the stewpan wth 2 quarts and pints of water, and when boiling, add i table-spoonlul of salt. Skim well, and simmer till the tails are tender (about four hours). Take them out, skim and strain the soup, thicken with tlour, and flavour with port wine and ketchup. Put back the tails, simmer for five minutes, and serve. It the tails are not quite fresh, the soup 2 Pie h la Perigord.—the fat off half a dozen mutton chops, and season them with pepper and salt. Line the bottom ot a pie-dish with paste about the tenth of an inch thick 3 put 5 peeled truffles in the centre, and arrange the chops, with thin rashers of bacon between them, round the dish 3 2 oz. of butter cut into thin slices ^re pl^aced ^ the top, and i a tea-cupful of veal stock poured in. Cover vath paste, and bake for three hours in a slow oven 3 make a small on c“! and pour in a couple of glasses of brown sherry or M^e,ra The top of the pie can be rendered ornamental if desired, and glazed "‘s Bru^seh 5/««ft-Clean the sprouts from insects, wash thoroughly, and pick oft any dead or discoloured leaves 3 ^n in a saucepan of boiling water (to each ^ gallon of water 3. large tab e- spoonM ot salt and a/,«/a soda); keep the lid oil and bo.l qmcUy o « a brisk fire till tender, which will be about twelve minutes. Serve with melted butter quickly, as the vegetable soon cools. _ rLrr ci«.-Grate 3 os. of fat Chesh.re vnlki; of 2 eees 4 oz. of grated bread, and 3 oz. ot butter, beat t lole wellln with^ dessert-spoonful o. mustard, and a Imle salt and pepper. Toast some bread, ?“ered wL a little. Serve as hot as possible.