234 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. saucepan; when melted, stir in with a spoon sufficient flour to make a stiff paste; then add, by degrees, 4 eggs well beaten, and form ffie whole into a smooth batter; gradually add i pint ot milk m which 6 oz. of loaf sugar has been dissolved, with i oz. of grated Jamaica ginger, and 2 oz. of preserved ginger cut into small dice. Well butter a mould or basin, and decorate it to fancy with dried chemes or stoned raisins, and citron-peel cut thin, and in various shapes. Fill the mould or basin with the preparation, covered with buttered paper, and steam one hour, or boil it for about the same length of time in a saucepan with water about half the height of the mould or basin. When done, turn it out, and serve with sweet sauce. AUGUST 12. • Hoist up sail while gale doth last. Tide and wind stay no man's pleasure ! Seek not time, when time is past. Sober speed is wisdotn's leisure. Aftei’-wits are dearly bought. Let thy fore-wit guide thy thoughts'—SOUTHWELL, i59S- 1. Autumnal Broth. 2. Grilled Fowl. 2. Vegetables. 4. Napoleon’s Pudding. I. Autumnal Snth.^Tme, three hours, Nme or ten pints o water, i lb. ot bailey, a quarter of a peck of green peas, i smal turnip, 2 carrots, a little parsley, i onion, 4 lbs. of mutton i of sfll r of pepper. Cut into small pieces the ®n,p ca„oh onion (after well washing them), and put the rnea m firsL Stam te pot till no more scum rises, then add the vegetables. Any one vegetables may be omitted except the green peas. a G'SrJc2»/.-Cutthe remains of cold fowl f “7“ them with pepper and salt; squeeze over them the jm ^ lemon and let them stand for three-quarters of an hour, tj dryrir*em into clarified butter, and then into brea^mb. iw h a liie lemon-peel grated. Put tliem on a ^ b a clear fire. When fried instead of broiled, use the yolk ot e^^ beaten instead of the clarified butter. _ rice to fill the 4. Napalm's Pudding.—P^ ^ .j j f, „;i|; dish to be used (i lb. w.ll fd a quart toh • Bod ^^ry ^ or milk and water, over a gentle fire, tak „ prevent this, it should be stirred occas'ona y. Two^oa ol^butmr be added to the rice while boding, or before beaten When done, place it aside to cool, stirrmg m 2 or 3 eggs well