203 BILL OF FARE FOR JULY. ^ pint- of cream rubbed smooth; add to it the soup, which must be ureviously strained, and the slices of eel taken carefully out. Boil it up, 3nd pour it over the sliced eels in your tureen. Toast a slice of bread, cut it into dice, and place it at the bottom of the tureen. 2. Roast Figeons.—These birds cannot be dressed too fresh. Let them be stuffed with chopped parsley and seasoned bread-crumbs; roast for five-and-t^venty-minutes, and serve with gravy sauce. 3. Boiled Bacon and Beans.—These must be boiled separately, other- wise the bacon will spoil the colour of the beans. Soak the bacon for an hour or two in cold water \ trim and scrape it as clean as possible, and put it into enough cold water to cover it; set it over a slow fire, so that it will be half an hour before it comes to a boil; then skim it, and let it boil gently till done. Two or 3 pounds will require an hour and a half after it boils; the hock or gammon, being thick, will require more time. When done enough, strip off the rind ; and your beans in the meantime having been boiled and strained, put them into a deep dish, lay the bacon upon them, and send them to table, with parsley and butter in a boat. 4. Fruit Pie.—Make a good crust; lay a little round the sides of the dish; throw some sugar on the bottom, and put in a little cup to suck in the juice; lay in the fruit, and put some more sugar at top; then put in a very little water ■, wet the top of the crust that goes round inside the dish ; put on the cover, and pinch the edges together. Cut the rhubarb into lengths of two inches, but do not skin it; only trim it at top and bottom, —0— JULY 10. ‘ Heaven's never deaf but when your heart is dumb.'—Quarles. 1. Haddock Soup. 2. Vegetables. 2. Sweetbreads A LA Dauphine. 4. Greengage Tart. 1. Haddock Separate all the meat from the bones of a fine fresh haddock, and pound it in a mortar with a pint of picked shrimps; chop a little bunch of parsley very fine, and add it to the fish, with the crumb^ of a French roll steeped in i pint of cream. Beat i egg well, and mix it with the above ingredients, which must then be put into 2 quarts of good warm broth, and seasoned with the pepper, salt, cayenne, and mace. Let it boil, closely covered, for half an hour, and then pu p It through a sieve. Thicken the soup with a little piece of butter rolled in flour; warm it up, and serve. 2. Sweetbreads d la Dauj>hi?ie.—?dset the fat and sinews from 3 or 4