36,-? BILL OF FARE FOR DECEMBER. gether. Open 18 oysters, beard and chop them (not too small), and add them to the ingredients. Beat up 2 eggs, and work and mix smoothly all together with the hand. Do not stufif the turkey too full, but make the remaining forcemeat rolled into balls; fry them, and garnish with them. A boiled turkey is a most delicate and excellent dish, and requires to be dressed with extreme care. Clean the turkey from feathers and stumps, and singe off the hairs, taking care not to blacken the skin. Draw and wipe it inside with a clean dry cloth; cut off the legs at the first joint; draw out the sinews \ then pull down the skin, and push the legs inside; cut the head off close to the body, leaving the skin long, and draw out the craw. Make a good veal stuffing and put it into the breast, leaving sufficient room for the stuffing to swell; then draw the skin of the breast over the opening and sew it neatly across the back, so that when the turkey is brought to table no sewing will appear. Place the gizzard in one wing and the liver in the other; turn the wings on the back, and fix them to the sides with a skewer; wrap it in a cloth dredged with flour, and put it into a pot of warm water, in sufficient quantity to keep the turkey always covered. Skim it while boiling. A small young turkey will not take more than an hour and a half to boil it; a large one about two hours and a half. When done, place it in a hot dish, and pour a little sauce over the breast. Send up oyster sauce, or parsley and butter, in a tureen. Some cooks make the stuffing of chopped bread and butter, oysters, cream, and the yolks of eggs. Celery, stock-broth, sugar, bechamel, cream. Take the white of heads of celery; blanch, drain, and throw them in cold water; let them cool, and drain dry. Stew them with a little broth and sugar until all the moisture is absorbed ; then mix with 4 table-spoonfuls of bechamel, strain through a tammy, and put in a water bath. Just before serving, add a little cream. 4. Ham. If the ham has been long cured, soak it in cold water for from twelve to twenty hours. Scrape it and put it into a large vessel to boil with plenty of cold water, and let it simmer gently from three to four or five hours, according to the size. A ham of 20 lbs will require four hours and a half. Skim the pot frequently to remove the grease as it rises. When done, strip off the rind, and strew bread-raspings over the top side; then set it before the fire, or in the oven, to dry and brown. Some persons prefer to bake a ham; it is then necessary, after soaking and scraping, to enclose it in a paste of flour and water before sending it to the oven. 6. Sauce to Sirloin o/Bee/.—Gra.te or scrape very fine i table-spoon- ful of horseradish, and thoroughly mix with it i tea-spoonful of made