236 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. sweet and bitter almonds blanched and pounded, the new milk and cream, the lemon-juice and the peel grated, with loaf sugar to taste. Set the stewpan over a clear fire, and stir it till the isinglass is dissolved j then take it off, and continue stirring it till nearly cold before putting it into the mould. This quantity will fill a quart mould; but if you wish to make it in a smaller shape, you must not put more than a pint of milk and half a pint of cream. Colour the top ornament with cochineal, and let it get cold before you add the rest of the blancmange. AUGUST14. . ‘ You have lived if you have loved.'—Alfred de Musset. 1. Boiled Soles. 3- Vegetables. 2. Hashed Beef. 4- Lemon Rice Pudding. 1. Boiled Soles.—soles, a large handful of salt in one gallon of water. Well wash and clean the soles, cut off the fins, and put them into a fish-kettle with salt and water. Let them boil slowly, and then simmer until done, which must be according to the weight of the fish, a large one requiring about ten minutes, a medium size eight. When done, serve them on a napkin, with the white side uppermost. Garnish with slices of lemon and parsley. Anchovy or shrimp sauce is usually sent to table with boiled soles, but may be varied at pleasure. 2. Hashed Beef.—T\mt, twenty-five minutes. Some slices of cold roast beef, 2 table-spoonfuls of Worcester sauce, i of mushroom ket- chup, and the gravy from the meat or from the bones boiled down; pepper and salt. _ -c ee. Put the gravy saved from the meat (with a little water if not^ sum- cient), or the bones of the cold joint boiled down to a gravy, into a stewpan with 2 table-spoonfuls of Worcester sauce, i of mushroom ket- chup, some pepper, salt, and a little butter rolled in flour to thicken it; let it simmer gently for about a quarter of an hour; take it from the fire, and when cold remove the fat. Cut the meat into slices, dredge them with flour, and lay them in the stewpan with the gravy; let it simmer slowly for ten minutes until hot, taking care it does not boil, or the meat will be hard. Garnish with sippets of toasted bread. 4. Lemon Rice Pudding.—Owt quarter lb. of ground rice boiled in i pint of new milk; when nearly cold, add the rind of 2 lemons, cut very small, with 4 eggs well beaten, and sugar to taste; then bake in an oven.