354 THINGS A LADY WOULD LUCE TO KNOW. 2. Hashed Widgeon. 5. Vegetables. completely with common salt well heaped over it. Turn the meat every day, and ladle it with the brine which forms in the dish. Beef so salted is more delicate than when plunged into a ready-made brine; which, however, has its advantages when several pieces are salted at once, as well as in hot weather, when flies are troublesome. The addition of sugar for salting beef is a matter of taste ; it is usually re- served for meat intended to be dried, hung, or smoked. Miss Acton very correctly observes: ‘Saltpetre hardens and renders the meat indigestible; sugar, on the contrary, mellows and improves it much.’ The one flatters the eye, the other suits the stomach. 3. Apple Snow.—Half a pound of the pulp of baked apples, ^ lb. pounded loaf sugar, a pinch of pounded alum, the whites of 3 egp, and the juice of half a lemon, beat with a wire whisk until quite white and stiff. May be used for garnishing custards or trifles, or makes a pretty dish itself. T. Tike, Plain Boiled.—If served whole, after scaling and emptying the belly, stuff it with veal stuffing, and sew the belly up again. Tie the head and tail together by means of string passed through the eye-holes, so as to bend the fish into the form of a circle. If there be any milt or roe, it may either be boiled plain and served in the centre of the circular fish, or mixed up with the stuffing. Pike is a fish which requires thorough boiling, especially when stuffed. A 5 or 6 lbs. fish will take about half an hour’s boiling. Serve on a napkin; garnish with parsley, and send up with anchovy sauce. _ . . . 2. Hashed Widgeon.—CvLt the birds into joints; mix the juice of 2 Seville oranges with 2 table-spoonfuls of Reading or home-made sauce, a gill of port wine, a tea-spoonful of mushroom powder, and 4 artichoke bottoms broken into bits; see that you have enough to cover the flesh, adding a little more of each liquid if necessary; make it boil, and, ten minutes before the hash is required, put in the meat, and let it simmer gently for that time. .. 1 3. SleTved Punp-slcah.—At the bottom of a stewpan DECEMBER 17. ‘ In her husband's sickness she feds more grief than she shows. ’-—Fuller. 1. Pike, Plain Boiled. 3. Stewed Rump-steak. 4. Iced Chocolate Cream.