435 THE COOKING OF VEGETABLES. till brown all alike; drain them on a sieve, and sprinkle a little fine salt over them. How to choose Potatoes, and keep them from being wasted.—Observe, as a general rule, that the smaller the eye the better the potato, as when they are too full in the eye, they are either of an inferior quality or are running to seed. To ascertain if they are sound, nip a piece from the thickest end with your finger-nail; if good, the inside will either be of a white, yellow, or reddish hue, according to the sort and quality; if, on the contrary, they are spotted, they are bad, or getting so; but though this part may be slightly touched, by cutting a little off the outside they may prove fit for boiling, though they ought to be bought when in this state at a cheap rate. Potatoes always get bad in the spring of the year, as then the old ones are going out, and the new ones for some time continue to possess but little flavour, and are watery when boiled. The old ones ought to be peeled, and steamed, and mashed, or baked in an oven under a joint, or fried in fat; for when done whole in their skins at this time of the year, the slightest spot spoils their flavour. The new ones are tasteless and watery, and are much better cooked when put in very hot water (but not boiling) than when put in cold. There are few articles in families more subject to waste, both in paring, boiling, and being actually thrown away, than potatoes; and there are few cooks but what boil twice as many potatoes every day as are wanted, and fewer still that do not throw the residue away as totally unfit in any shape for the next day’s meal; yet, if they would take the trouble to heat up the despised cold potatoes with an equal quantity of flour, they would find them produce a much lighter dumpling or pudding than they can make with flour alone, and by the aid of a few spoonfuls of good gravy they would produce an agreeable dish for the dinner table. To Boil Scrape and wash them, then split them in two (if very large, into four), and cut them across; they require long boiling to make them soft. Parsnips are dressed in the same manner. When cold, they are very nice cut in slices and fried. Cucumber.—who are at all afraid of eating cucumber may venture without danger, if, to the dressing of salt, soluble cayenne, oil, and vinegar, a table-spoonful of strong mustard be added. _ Jerusale7n Artichokes.—Scrape and wash them clean, and put them into boiling water with salt in it; large ones will require boiling for two hours. When done, take them up and butter them. Broccoli to Boil.—Pare off the side leaves and the outside of the stalk which must be cut close to the bottom. See that the water is boilimr' throw m a table-spoonful of salt, and let the heads boil for a quarter of an hour. When the stalks are tender, the vegetables are done, and