4. Marrow Pudding. 2 72 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOJV SEPTEMBER 19. ‘ Gol has made sunny spots in the heart; why should we exclude the light from them ? ’ —Haliburton. 1. Piirte of Game Pick all the flesh from the bones, put it into a mortar with a small bit of butter, pound it, and add a little crumb of bread soaked in consopijne. The bones should be put into some good ■ consomme to boil, with some spice, vegetables, and herbs, as the last; some of this broth should be used in the pounding. When sufficiently pounded, rub the whole through a sieve or tammy into a clean pot. Moisten with the broth in which the bones are boiled, using sufficient to make it about the consistence of hare soup. Place it on the comer of the stove, to get thoroughly hot without boiling. Season with cayenne and salt, and serve with fried bread cut in dice in the tureen. 2. Stewed Beefsteak.—Peel and chop 2 Spanish onions, cut into small parts 4 pickled walnuts, and put them at the bottom of a ste^vpan; add a tea-cupful of mushroom ketchup, 2 tea-spoonfuls of walnut ditto, i of shalot, and i of Chile vinegar. See that the rump-steak be cut of a proper thickness, about three-quarters of an inch, and beat it flat with a rolling-pin; place the meat on the top of the onions, etc.; let it stew for one hour and a half, turning it every twenty minutes. Ten minutes before serving up, throw in a dozen oysters, with their liquor strained through a fine sieve. 4. Marrow Pudding.—Blanch 8 oz. of sweet almonds, and beat them up in a mortar with a table-spoonful of rose-water; chop up 6 oz. of candied orange and citron; beat up the yolks of half a dozen eggs, and add a glass of sherry or Madeira to them ; shred very fine a lb. of beef marrow free from the minute bones, wash and pick lb. of currants, grate up the crumb of a French roll; these things done, boil a quart of cream, and whilst it is quite hot stir in the ingredients, mixing all well together. Rub the sides of a pie-dish with butter, put in the above materials, and bake for half an hour. Before serving, strew powdered sugar over the top. 1. Puree of Game Soup. 2. Stewed Beefsteak. 3. Vegetables.