309 BILL OF FARE FOR OCTOBER. When done, pour in a little good gravy. You may put in the yolks of six hard-boiled eggs, or leave out the beefsteak if you think proper. 4. Turnips, etc.—Pare and wash the turnips, boil them well in plenty of water, then wring them very dry in a delicately clean cloth; beat them up with pepper, salt, and butter to taste ; add a little milk to give whiteness, and serve very hot. A little sugar, if the turnips are old, is an improvement. ^ ‘ Might I give counsel to any young friend, I wottld say unto her: “ Try to fi-equent the company of your betters ; learn to admire rightly. The great pleasure of life is in that, narrow spirits admire basely and worship meanly; broad spirits worship the right. ” ’—Thackeray. 2. Roast Pork.—Pork should at all times be perfectly well done, and therefore requires a longer time to roast than any other meat. Pork is much more savoury when stuffed with chopped sage, and onions, and bread-crumbs, seasoned with pepper and salt. The outer rind should be neatly scored to enable the carver to cut slices more easily. Before setting it down to roast, mb the skin with salad oil to prevent its blistering, and baste it frequently. Serve it with apple sauce in a tureen or boat. The onions should be boiled a little before being chopped for the stuffing. 3. Vegetables.—Let them remain for a full hour before dressing in cold water; be sure to dress them in a capacious saucepan full of boiling water, into which three table-spoonfuls of salt has been thrown; give them twenty minutes on the fire; drain off the water through a colander; put the vegetables on a sieve, bottom upwards, and gently press therh Avith a hot plate. 4. Apple Dumplings.—the large msset-coat fmit, pare and cut them in halves, take out the cores, and fill the cavities with quince marmalade and a couple of cloves to each. Surround the apples with paste equally distributed; tie up in cloths; boil for fifty minutes or an hour, if your dumplings are large. Have melted butter and powdered sugar ready to serve with them. ■0— OCTOBER 31. 1. Cod and Oyster Sauce. 2. Roast Pork. V ihLriit 1 AloLiiLb* 4. Apple Dumplings. Vegetables.