BILL OF FARE FOR MA V. 139 2. B(£uf Royale.—lake the bones out of a brisket of beef, and scoop holes in the meat about an inch asunder; fill one with small rolls of fat bacon, a second with chopped parsley and sweet herbs, seasoned with pepper and salt, and the third with oysters cut small and powdered with a very little mace and nutmeg. When all the apertures are stuffed, tie up the meat in a roll, put it into a baking-pan, and pour over it, quite hot, a pint of sherry, in which half a dozen cloves have been boiled; flour the meat well, and set it in a slow oven for three hours. Pour off the gravy and set it by to cool, that you may skim away the fat; if it is not already in a jelly, which it should be, add enough glaze to make it so. Serve the beef cold, and the jelly round it. This is a very savoury dish, and well adapted for warm weather, not being liable to taint. 4. Batter Pudding.—Beat up, with a whisk, 4 new-laid eggs; when the yolks and whites are well mixed, gently crumble in 4 oz. of finely- sifted flour, in which half a tea-spoonful of salt has been mixed) pour upon the flour and egg half a pint of cream or new milk, and add a table-spoonful of powdered white sugar, and enough grated nutmeg to cover a sixpence. See that the mould be well buttered; pour in the batter, cover the bottom with buttered paper, and secure all with a proper cloth. Boil for an hour and a quarter. Pour wine sauce over it before sending to table. MAY 2. ‘ A willing heart adds feather to the heel. And makes the clown a wingld Mercury.'—Joanna Baillie. 1. Soup. 2. Capon with Rice. 3. Vegetables. 4. Cabinet Pudding. 1. ^ Scrape and cut into thin slices 4 carrots, peel and slice 3 tarnip chop up 3 heads of celery and the hearts of 2 lettuces, slice a Spanish onion thin. Put these, with i lb. of butter, two table-spoonfuls ot salt and one of black pepper, into a stewpan; set it on a slow fire, stir well to prevent burning; and when the vegetables are nearly warmed through, pour boiling water over them till the pan is filled. Let all boil slowly for three hours and a half, then rub it through a hair sieve It properly cooked, it should be the thickness of cream, and of a rich yellow colour. 2. Capon with Truss a fine capon for braizing, and cleanse he inside well from blood; put a few slices of lemon on the breast and cover with slices of fat bacon; work together a little butter, pepper’ and lemon-]uice, and put inside the fowl. At the bottom of an oval