HINTS FOR DRESSING AND THE TOILET. 481 wax, into a new tin saucepan. Simmer gently till the wax, etc., are dissolved, and then strain it through a linen. When cold, melt it again, and pour it into small pots or boxes; or if to make cakes, use the bottoms of tea-cups. All Flasmds should be soaked before they are made up, first in cold, then in hot water, in order to shrink them. Washing.—Flannel should always be washed with white soap, and in warm, but not boiling water. Patent Leather Boots require to be wiped with a wet sponge, and afterwards with a soft diy cloth, and occasionally with a soft cloth and sweet oil, blacking and polishing the edge of the soles in the usual way, but so as not to cover the patent polish with blacking. A little milk may also be used with very good effect for patent leather boots. Pinching Shoes and Boots do much mischief. That they produce toimenting and crippling corns, all know. But this is not all, nor even the worst. They check the circulation of the pedal blood, make the feet cold, and sometimes aid in chilblaining them; diminish the size of the muscles of the part, and take from their strength and impede their action by compressing them. Cramping and torturing the feet by pressure produces, sympathetically, dyspepsia and headache, and some- times troublesome affections of the lungs. Haemorrhage from the nostrils and lungs, and even apoplexy and pulmonary consumption are occasionally excited by it. To Polish Boots., Slippers, etc., of E7iantelled Leather.—Make lukewarm, and then well mix together the following ingredients :—One quart of the best cream and i pint of linseed oil; cle’an the shoe, etc., free from dirt, and rub it over with a sponge dipped in the mixture; then rub it with a soft dry cloth till a brilliant polish is produced. Corsets arid Stays.—Of all wicked fashions, that of wearing tight corsets is the most wicked. They not only interfere with the free motions of the muscles, but they entirely alter the shape of the body as it is designed by nature; squeeze the important organs contained in that part, so as to impede their healthy action ; and entail misery and disease upon the unfortunate victim of fashion. Did it end here, the punishment would be given to the party committing the wrong; but it it is a well-known fact that the offspring suffers, and it has been remarked that they are as feeble in mind as they are in body. Great men are not the offspring of tight-laced mothers. Even beauty of countenance is impaired, and in time destroyed, by tight corsets. Those instruments of mischief wither in the complexion the freshness of health, and substitute for it the sallowness of disease • on the spot where the rose and the ruby had shed their lustre they pour bile and sprinkle ashes. They do still more; they dapple the 2 u