THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 2Q2 2. Mutton Cutlets.—Cut about a pound and a half of the neck or loin of mutton into delicate cutlets, and chop each bone short, trim them neatly, and put them into a stewpan with a piece of butter and a little thyme and parsley chopped fine; season with pepper and salt; fry them lightly, and then take them out to cool, after which take some fresh chopped parsley and some bread-crumbs, spread them evenly over the cutlets with a knife, wrap them in buttered papers, and broil them over a clear fire. Serve them up in the papers, with gravy in a tureen. 3. Baked Apple Dumpling.—Peel and slice I a dozen apples; scald them, and steam off the water; beat them up with 2 oz. of butter, the juice of a lemon and its peel grated; sweeten to your taste : wheii cold, add the whites of 3 eggs and the yolks of 5; put a thin crust in the dish, and bake in a slow oven. OCTOBER 12. ‘ Thou tremhlest before anticipated ills, and still bemoanest what thou never losest. Goethe. 1. Giblet Soup. 2. Boiled Pork. 3. Peas-Pudding 4. Apple and Custard Pancake. I Giblet Soup.—?>c2\6. and clean 3 or 4 sets of duck or goose giblets; set them to stew with 2 lbs. of leg of beef, the bone of a knuckle of veal, an ox-tail, a scrag of mutton, or 2 or 3 shanks, with 3 onions, i tea-spoonful of white pepper, i large spoonful of salt, 2 carrots, a large bunch of sweet herbs. Put 5 pints of water, and simmer till the gizzards (which must be each in 4 pieces) are quite tender; skim thoroughly. When tender, take them out, put them in a hot tureen; quickly strain the soup through a sieve; mix an oz. of butter with a dessert-spoonful of flour 2 tea-spoonfuls of mushroom powder, and ^ pint of cream. Boil it up for a few minutes, and then pour it over the giblets. Instead of cream it may be flavoured with 2 glasses of sherry or Madeira, a large spoonful of ketchup, and some cayenne. When m the tureen, add s t 2 Boiled Having washed and scraped it, put it into boiling, water with the skin side uppermost. If it be thin, a ^ pounds will be done in less than an hour; a leg of 8 pounds im hours Pork should be done enough; but if boiled too fast or too lon^, it w ; becLe jelly. Keep the pot well skimmed, and send it to table greens. Some persons like carrots, parsnips, up loosely in a cloth a quart of split pe« ; put them in a saucepan otM tvater, and let them boil for two hours