3oS THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. eggs by degrees; then the juice of one or two lemons, with the peel grated. Butter a mould thickly, and when the ingredients are well mixed pour it in, taking care that the mould is quite full. Butter a piece of white paper, cover it over the top, tie it well over with a cloth, and put it into a saucepan of fast boiling water. OCTOBER SO. ‘ Moderate your anger, govern well your household affairs, and write your letters without useless repetitions.'—Ferdinand, King of Spain. 1. Oyster Soup. 3. Pigeon Pie. 2. A Neck of Mutton. 4. Turnips, etc. 1. Oyster Soup,—Take a sufficient quantity of oysters, according to their size; about a dozen fine natives is sufficient for a pint of soup. Open the oysters, save all the liquor which comes from them, and strain it. Beard the oysters, put the beards and a little consomme together into a small saucepan over the fire, to boil for a quarter of an hour or twenty minutes. In the meantime pound the oysters to a pulp with a quarter of a pound of crumb of bread, and two or three yolks of eggs boiled hard, to three dozen natives, more or less according to the quantity. Strain the liquor from the beards into a stewpan; add the rest of the stock, the liquor of the oysters free from sediment, and the pulp of the oysters; stew all together very gently for half an hour, and rub through a tammy. Keep it hot, without allowing it to boil. Season it with cayenne or white pepper, mace, and nutmeg, and also salt, if required ; some cream may also be added. Serve with fried bread cut in dice in the tureen. 2. A Neck of Mutton may be served with various ragouts of vegetables, such as spinach, sorrel, endive, cucumbers, cauliflowers, green or white haricot beans, potatoes, or mashed turnips. 3. Pigeon Pie.—Two or three pigeons, a rump-steak, pepper and salt, a little gravy, two ounces of butter, puff paste. Lay a rim of paste round the sides and edge of a pie-dish, sprinkle a little pepper and salt over the bottom, and put in a thin beefsteak; pick and draw the pigeons, wash them clean, cut off the feet, and press the legs into the sides • put a bit of butter and a seasoning of pepper and salt in the inside of each, and lay them in the dish with their breasts upwards, and the necks and gizzards between them; sprinkle some pepper and salt over them, and put in a wine-glass of water; lay a thin sheet of paste over the top, and with a brush wet it all over; then put a puff paste half an inch thick over that, cut it close to the dish, brush it over with egg, ornament the top, and stick four of the feet out of it, and bake it