THE ART OF COOKING. 21 these matters. When meat is perfectly fresh, it requires more time for cooking than when stale or long-killed. Good meat invariably swells in boiling. If corned meat be too salt, you may pour off the water after it has boiled a few minutes, and replace it with fresh. BROILING. For broiling, the fire should be brisk and perfectly clear: a good strong cinder fire is best. Set the gridiron over for a minute or two to get hot, then wipe it quite clean with a clean damp cloth—do not use paper; then rub a bit of hard dripping or suet over the bars, to pr,event the meat sticking to them. Put the lean of the meat on the back part of the girdiron, and the fat in the front; pepper your meat before you lay it on, but do not salt it, as that draws out the gravy. Turn the meat once or twice, but do not insert a fork for that purpose. Do not beat the meat before broiling; it will not make tough meat tender, and it expels the juices. Broiled meat should be cooked quickly, and served quite hot; on taking it off the girdiron, lay it on a hot dish, sprinkle it with salt, and lay a. good lump of butter over it. Some persons like ketchup or walnut-liquor with broiled meat; others like the dish rubbed with a shalot. Instead of buying our cutlets and chops ready for the girdiron or pan, we buy loins and necks of fat mutton, at least half of which are thrown to waste. The enormous weight of meat thus daily in our kitchens would be most acceptable to the poorer classes, and could be readily sold to them by the butcher; for the inferior parts of good meat are far more wholesome and nourishing than the best parts of inferior meat, such as the poorer classes chiefly eat. The second step, there- fore towards kitchen reform ought to be an arrangement with the butcher, that every joint sent in should be closely trimmed for the table e ore it leaves his shop; and that, if we want chops or cutlets, we should buy from him chops and cutlets, and not the entire joints from which they are cvX.—British Medical Journal. 1-KYliNG. f cooking, the most objectionable, from the foods bemg less digestible when thus prepared, as the fat employed undergoes chemical changes. Olive oil, in this respect, is preferable to lard or butter If the meat is very juicy, it will not fry welf becau e It becomes sodden before the water is evaporated; and it wiU fot b own, because the temperature is too low to scorch it. To fry fish