169 BILL OF FARE FOR JUNE. wash them clean, and dry them; pull out the roe at the neck-end; boil it, then bruise it with a spoon; beat up the yolk of an egg with a little nutmeg, a little chopped lemon-peel, a little thyme, some boiled parsley chopped fine, a little pepper and salt, and a few bread-crumbs : mix these together with the mashed roe, and fill the mackerel; flour it, and broil it nicely. Send it up with a little ketchup or walnut-pickle, in plain melted butter. Mackerel, if boiled, should be put into cold water with plenty of salt. When cold, they are nice soused in vinegar. 3. Hashed Mutton.—Cut the least done parts of the cold mutton into small slices, carefully taking off the brown outside ; dust with flour ; fry a few sliced onions; when brown, put them in your stewpan, with a little stock; put a table-spoonful of currant jelly, with a dessert-spoonful of Harve)'’s sauce and a half glass of red wine; stew these together till the onions are reduced to a pulp ; then withdraw the stewpan from the fire, put in the sliced mutton, and let it simmer gently for half an hour. ‘ The heart ought to give charity when the hand cannot.'—Pasquier Quesnel. _ I. Soup et Bouilli.—TakQ about ai lbs. of brisket of beef, roll it up tight, and fasten it with a piece of tape. Put it into a stewpan with 2 lbs. of the leg of mutton, piece of beef, and a gallon of water; let it boil slowly, skim it well, and put in an onion stuck with cloves, two carrots, two turnips, a leek, a head of celery cut into slices, with some whole pepper. Cover the stewpan close, and stew the whole very slowly or seven hours. About an hour before it is served, strain the soup quite clear from the meat Have ready a few boiled carrots cut into wheels, some turnips cut into balls, the endive, and a little celery cut into pieces. Put these into a tureen with a roll, dried after removing the crumb. Pour the soup over these boiling hot, add a little salt and cayenne, remove the tape from the beef, and serve it on a separate JUNE 6. 1. Soup et Bouilli. 2. Lobster Salad. 3. Baked Chicken Pudding. 4. Carrot Pudding. 5. Gooseberry Cream. 6. Vegetables.