BILL OF FARE FOR MARCH. over with sweet fresh butter. Set it in an American oven before the fire, and continue basting with butter until enough. For sauce, take the butter left in the pan, and mix with it a little mustard and vinegar. 2. House Lamb Steaks.—Season them with salt and pepper, nutmeg grated, lemon-peel, and chopped parsley; dip them first into whipped eggs, fry them quickly. Thicken some good gravy with a bit of flour and butter; add to it a spoonful of port wine and some oysters; boil it up, and then put in the steaks warm; let them heat up, and serve. 4. Batter Pudding.—Use a quart of milk; mix 6 spoonfuls of flour with a little of the milk first; add the rest by degrees, with a tea-spoon- ful of salt, 2 of beaten ginger, and 2 of the tincture of saffron; mix all together quite smooth, and boil it for an hour either in a buttered cloth or basin. MARCH 24. * Be not content to captivate only, vuhen you may bring into action poiuers of‘which the effects may be com/nensicrate with eter7tity.’—Hannah More. 1. Potato Soup. I 3. Mashed Potatoes. 2. Neck of Lamb. I 4. Bread Pudding. I. Potato Soup.—Take a few uncooked bones, or bones of cold meat, or, if you have none of these, a piece of dripping, and put it into a pot of cold water, according to the quantity you wish to make; after boiling a short time, peel a quantity of potatoes, and put them in with 2 or 3 onions cut in thin slices; add pepper and salt, and let it boil for half an hour. 2 Neck of Lamb.—Take the best end of a neck of lamb, cut into steaks, and chop each bone so short as to make the steaks almost round. Egg and strew with crumbs, herbs, and seasoning; fry them of the finest brown; mash some potatoes with a little butter and cream and put them into the middle of the dish raised high. Then place the edge of one steak on another with the small bone upward, all round the potatoes. 4- Bread Pudding.—Crumble down stale bread in a dish; boil suffi- cient milk, which pour on to the bread. Cover it up for a quarter of an hour, that the bread may swell; then beat it up to a fine pulp, stirrine in a lump of butter. Now beat up 3 or 4 eggs, ground cinnamon ginger grated lemon-peel, and sugar to taste; ^ lb. of raisins stoned and chopped; i lb. of currants picked and washed, with a little salt Mix this among the bread ; make it of the consistence of thick batter’ iiutter the dish, pour it m, and bake it for half an hour.