285 BILL OF FARE FOR OCTOBER. in a cloth, and arrange them nicely in a flat baking-dish. Cover them with fine bread-crumbs, with little pieces of butter all over them. Season, and bake for a quarter of an hour. Just before serving add a squeeze of lemon-juice, and garnish with cut lemon and fried parsley. 2. Calf’s Heart.—Put the heart to disgorge in lukewarm water for an hour nearly; then wipe it dry, stuff it with a nice and highly seasoned veal stuffing or forcemeat. Cover it with buttered paper, and set it down to roast at a good fire. Serve it with good gravy, or any sharp sauce. Send it up as hot as possible to table. 3. Stewed Rabbit.—Clean the rabbits thoroughly, cut them up, and scald them for a short time; put some sliced onions and a bit of dripping into your pot, and fry the rabbits with them till slightly browned; dredge in a little flour, then add hot water sufficient to make gravy; pepper and salt and a little ketchup. Stew them very gently for an hour. 4. Norfolk Dumplings.—Take about a lb. of dough from a baking of light bread, and divide it into small pieces, mould them into dumplings, drop them into a saucepan of fast boiling water, and boil them quickly. Send them to table the instant they are dished up, with wine sauce, or melted butter sweetened. OCTOBER 4. ‘ The very afflictions of our earthly pilg)-image are presages of our future glory, as shadows indicate the sun.’—Richter. 1. Soup Lobster. 4. Orange Pudding. 2. Beefsteaks. 5. Vegetables. 3. Sauce for ditto. r. Soup Lobster.—Take the meat from the claws, bodies, and tails of 6 small lobsters; take away the brown fur and the bag in the head; beat the fins, chine, and small claws in a mortar. Boil it very gently in 2 quarts of water, with the crumb of a French roll, some white pepper, salt, 2 anchovies, a large onion, sweet herbs, and a bit of lemon-peel, till you have extracted the goodness of them all. Strain it off. Beat the spawn in a mortar, with a bit of butter, a ^ of a nutmeg, and a tea- spoonful of flour; mix it with a quart of cream. Cut the tails into pieces, and give them a boil up with the cream and soup. Serve with forcemeat-balls made of the remainder of the lobster, mace, pepper, salt, a few crumbs, and an egg or two. Let the balls be made up with a bit of flour, and heated in the soup. 2. Beefsteaks.—A fine, tender rump-steak, if properly dressed, is a dish worthy of an Englishman. A bright, clear fire is essential Let the gridiron be carefully cleaned, rub the bars with suet, and put it over