304 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. in; shake and turn it about frequently to keep it from burning, it will presently be nice and brown; let it stew in its own gravy till the meat becomes tender, then take off all the fat from the top, mix some flour in two table-spoonfuls of water, with a little ketchup or pickled walnut liquor, and pour it gradually into the stew; stir it about well, and just give it a boil up ; serve it quite hot. 5. Cintra Fritters.—Cut up some spongecake, or any other kind of cake, into slices ^ of an inch thick, stamp them into round or oblong shapes, soak them for a few minutes in a mixture of wine and cream sweetened and flavoured with a few drops of ratafia, dredge them vsuth flour on both sides, and fry them in lard, of a light brown colour. Pour some melted raspberry jelly round them, and serve very hot. OCTOBER 2 6. ‘ Costly company are not to be liked; lest, whilst you make your hair longer, you make your wings shorter. ’—Lord Bacon. 1. Venison Pasty. 3. Vegetables. 2. Partridge Pie. 4. Queen Mab’s Pudding. 1. Venison Pasty.—Take either of the above parts of venison, remove the bones and skin, and cut it into small square pieces. Put them into a stewpan with 3 shalots, pepper, salt, mace, and allspice. Add a ^ of a pint of port wine, and sufficient veal broth or stock to cover it; put it on a gentle fire, and let it stew till three-parts done. Then take out the neatest pieces of venison for the pasty, and put them into a deep dish, in a cold place, with a little of the gra\y poured over them. Pour the remainder of the gravy over the bones, etc., and boil it for a quarter of an hour. Cover the pasty with some raised pie crust, ornament the top in any way you please, and bake it in a slow oven. When done, have ready the gravy left from the bones, strain and skim it clean, add a glass of port wine, the juice of a small lemon, and a piece of butter rolled in flour. Pour it into the pasty, and serve. For the gravy.—A glass of port wine, juice of a small lemon, a piece of butter and flour, some stock from the stewed venison. 2. Partridge Pie.—Prepare 4 partridges for dressing; do not truss them, but remove the heads and necks, as well as the legs from the knee-joints. Put in a pie-dish i lb. of veal cutlet and a rasher of un- dressed ham, or some very nice bacon; then place the partridges’ breasts to the centre in form, and prepare the following seasoning thus;—Take of chopped thyme and parsley mixed i tea-spoonful, and of chopped mushrooms i dessert-spoonful j mix and season with salt, pepper, and cayenne; scatter this between the birds, and fill up the dish with strong