187 BILL OL FARE FOR JUNE. 4, Aldermaiis Pudding.—Boil a pint of cream with a bit of lemon- peel and some fine sugar; pour it hot over ^ lb. of new Savoy biscuits, cover the bowl with a plate till the cream is soaked up ; then add 3 oz, of sweet almonds pounded or chopped fine, 8 eggs, the yolks and whites separately beaten; bake it in puff paste, with a thin layer of orange or apricot marmalade in the middle. JUNE 2 6. ' Sweet is the smile of hovte;.the mutual look Whe7t hearts are of each other sure ; Sweet all the joys that crcrwd the household nook, The hatint of all affectiosts pure.'—Keble. 1. Clear Pea Soup. 2. Lamb. 3. Asparagus. 4. Melted Butter for DiTTa 5. Gooseberry Pudding. 6. Vegetables. 1. Clear Pea Soup.—Shell about pints of nice young peas, blanch them in salt and water, strain and put them into 2 quarts of boiling co7iso77ime, with a sprig of mint; a lettuce may also be cut small and added, if preferred; boil till the peas are tender, take out the mint, season with salt and a little sugar. Cut the crust of a French roll in small dice, and put into the tureen. 2. La77ib.—Parboil a neck or breast of house-lamb; have ready bread-crumbs, sweet herbs, pepper, and salt; beat these up with as many eggs, both white and yolk, as will make the mixture sufficiently thick to adhere to the meat. Score the joint all over deeply, and rub the seasoning well into the scores; place it on a dish in a Dutch oven, before a good bright fire, turning it frequently for above half an hour— the time will depend on the size of your joint. 3. Asparagus.—Cut the heads about four or five inches long; scrape them and throw them into cold water; tie them in bundles ; put them into boiling water with plenty of salt in it; let them come quickly to a boil—they will take from a quarter of an hour to twenty minutes. When tender, take them up with a slice ; drain them well; remove the string, and lay the asparagus in a dish, heads inwards, on slices of toast previously dipped in the liquor. Serve with melted butter. Sea kale is dressed in the same manner. 4. Melted Butter for ditto.—For melted butter, mix in the proportion of a tea-spoonful of flour to 4 oz. of good butter, on a trencher. Put it into a small saucepan, and 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of hot water; boil quickly a minute, shaking it all the time. Milk used instead of water looks whiter, and requires rather less butter.