CONFECTIONERY, CAKES, AND PRESERVES. 463 In this, as in all compositions of the same nature, observe particularly that each portion of butter must be beaten into the mixture until no appearance of it remains before the next is added; and if this be done, and the preparation be kept light by constant and light whisking, the cake will be as good, if not better, than if the butter were creamed. Candied citron can be added if liked. Piu7n Cake, Rich, with Almond Paste, and Iced.—Put the following ingredients into a pan (or large basin) in the order given, then proceed as directed:—Three-quarters of a lb. of good butter beaten to cream, ^ a lb. of richest moist sugar, f of a lb. of currants well washed and dried, I of a lb. of raisins carefully stoned, 6 oz. of mixed candied peel finely chopped, 6 bitter and i oz. of sweet almonds blanched and pounded, the grated rind of a lemon and the strained juice, a grain of powdered cloves, 2 grains of powdered cinnamon, the sixth part of a nutmeg grated, 14 oz. of sifted flour, i a gill of new milk, the yolks of 6 eggs beaten with a wine-glassful of brandy. Beat the whole together till Avell mixed, then add the whites of the eggs beaten to froth; continue to beat rapidly for twenty minutes. Turn the mixture into a large cake-tin lined with buttered paper, and bake in a moderate oven about two and a half hours. Turn the cake out carefully, and, when cold, ice it as follows:—Blanch ahd pound to a fine paste 12 bitter and 7 oz. of sweet almonds; add 10 oz. of sifted loaf sugar, a table-spoonful of orange-flower water, and the whites of 8 eggs beaten to a froth; stir the mixture till it becomes a soft, smooth paste, then spread it over the cake about the sixth of an inch thick; let it stand in an airy place to dry while the icing is being prepared. Pound to the finest possible powder I lb. of loaf sugar; add the whites of five fresh eggs and the strained juice of half a lemon; stir till it becomes a thick, moist substance. When the almond paste is dry, spread the icing over it about a quarter of an inch thick, and let the cake remain until it is quite set. The cake can be used without the paste and icing if preferred. Plain and very Crisp Biscuits.—a lb. of flour, the yolk of an egg, and some milk into a very stiff paste ; beat it well, and knead till quite smooth; roll very thin, and cut into biscuits. Bake them in a slow oven till quite dry and crisp. Rusks.—7 eggs well, and mix with ^ a pint of new milk, in which have been melted 4 oz. of butter; add to it a of a pint of yeast and 3 oz. of sugar, and put them, by degrees, into as much flour as will make a very light paste, rather like batter, and let it rise before the fire half an hour; then add some more flour to make it a little stiffer, but not stiff. Work it well, and divide it into small cakes about five or six inches wide, and flatten them. When baked and cold, slice them the thickness of rusks, and put them in the oven to brown a^little.