THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 94 in the juice of a lemon, put in a few oysters, and the liquor strained, with a blade or two of mace; cover it close, and let it stew softly shaking the pan often. When it is done enough, take out the sweet herbs and onion, and dish it up; pour the sauce over it, and garnish MuUon In winter, a small family may ensure a variety of fare by having a leg of mutton divided in ^ang the knuckle, and cut the thick end into slices of about | of an inch m thic - ness sawing the bone in the centre, but leaving the section in the meat. These slices are to be dressed in the pan : 2 tea-cupfuls of water, and i of Harvey’s, Reading, Lopresti’s, or any favourite sauce, with a small portion of soluble cayenne and salt, and 2 drops of garlic vinegar ^ TBrcadandBuLpuddiug.-C^^ some slices of thm bread and butter, and have ready some currants picked and , dish and lay slices of the bread and butter on the bottom of it, the some currants over them ; then W another row of^bmad »d butter then some more currants, until the dish be . 4 eggs add a pint of new milk, a little ground cinnamon, nutmeg, grated Rmon-peel, 4 or 5 bitter almonds blanched and crushed, and sugar to "r ^sfe, L a very little salt. Mix all these together, and pour them over the bread and butter. Bake it half an hour. a k 5. Arrowroot Blancmange.-Yzk^ a quart of sweet imlk put about 3 paL of it into a saucepan, sweeten it with white sugar, and set it on the Le Mix 3 table-spoonfuls of arrowroot with the rest of the mi k, usin f Uttle at a time, so as to have it completely smooth and well mixed When the milk in the saucepan boils, m the arrowroo^ ^ quickly, to prevent it being lumpy ; it will thicken immediate y. Soil for two or three minutes. Wet a mould with cold milk and poi^^ in the arrowroot, after stirring in 2 or 3 drops of oil of lemons. Let stand till cold, then turn it out on a glass or china dislu -0— march 12. ■' FITZOSBORNE. 1. White Potato Sour. 2. Savoury Omelet. 3. Apple Fritters. 4. Amber Pudding. 5. VEGETABLES.