BILL OF FARE FOR SEPTEMBER. 279 SEPTEMBER 2 8. 'Entertain a just esteem for yourselves. J would, on the one hand, guard you against everything degrading; and, on the other, awaken your ambition to act up to the best standard of your sex,—to aspire at every amiable, every noble quality that is proportioned to your state, or that can ensure the affection and preserve the impoi'tance to which you were bom.'—Rev. James Fordyce, D.D. 1. Soles Filleted and Stewed. 3. Vegetables. 2. Veal Rissoles. 4. Ground Rice Pudding. 1. Soles Filleted and Stewed.—Soles should be large for filleting. Have 3 soles filleted, and cut into 12 pieces; chop 2 shalots and 3 sprigs of parsley very fine, spread them over the bottom of a shallow copper cotelette-pan, double each fillet of sole, and lay the pointed ends in the centre of the pan, and it will form something like a star. Throw over a glass of sherry, and stew on your gas stove or hot plate for two and a half minutes ; turn the 12 pieces, and have the following mixture ready to pour in the centre of the pan :—Three tea-spoonfuls of mush- room ketchup, 2 tea-spoonfuls of anchovy sauce, i tea-spoonful of sugar, I tea-spoonful of lemon juice, and \ tea-spoonful of cayenne. When the fish comes to boil, they are done, which will be about two and a half minutes. This dish is best served smoking in the pan as cooked. When the soles are filleted, have the heads and bones sent home; put them in pint water, and stew with some parsley; pepper and salt. This will make a thick jelly, which, added to any other broth, will be nice for the following day. 2. Veal Rissoles.—Mince very finely some slices of cold roast veal with a few slices of ham or bacon; add i table-spoonful of savoury herbs, i table-spoonful of parsley, both minced, i blade of pounded mace; put pepper and salt to taste, and grate a very little nutmeg. Mix into a paste with an egg in the shape of cones or balls. Brush them over with egg, sprinkle with bread-crumbs, and fry a rich brown. Garnish with fried parsley, and serve with brown gravy. 4. Ground Rice Ptidding.—Set ij pints of new milk on the fire; mix 6 oz. of ground rice quite smooth with ^ pint of cold milk; add this to the other milk when nearly boiling, and stir over the fire till pretty thick, then pour into a basin, leaving uncovered till nearly cold ; sweeten to taste, add a little salt, and 6 eggs well beaten. Boil hours in a ba.sin well buttered.