523 B7NTS FOR DEPORTMENT, ETC. situation of the woman was in the middle rank of life, and she could not enjoy more than one of these valuable recommendations. In order to convey a more correct idea of my meaning when I speak of clever- ness, I will simply add, that a woman possessed of this qualification is seldom at a loss what to do; seldom gives wrong orders; seldom mis- takes the right means of producing the end she desires; seldom spoils, or wastes, or mismanages the works she undertakes ; never hurries to and fro in a state of confusion, not knowing what is best to be done first; and never yields to her own feelings, so as to incapacitate her from the service of others, at any critical moment when her assistance may be most needed. Nor are her recommendations only of a negative kind. Her habitual self-possession is a positive good; her coolness, her promptitude, her power to adapt herself to circumstances, all give worth and dignity to her character in the estimation of others, while they afford peace and satisfaction to her own mind.—Mrs. Ellis. ECONOMIZE YOUR TIME. Jeremy Bentham was a great economist of time. He knew the value of minutes. The disposal of his hours, both of labour and of repose, was a matter of systematic arrangement; and the arrangement was deter- mined on the principle that it is a calamity to lose the smallest portion of time. He did not deem it sufficient to provide against the loss of a day or an hour ; he took effectual means to prevent the occurrence of any such calamity to him: but he did more, he was careful to provide against the loss even of a single minute ; and there is not on record any example of a human being who lived more habitually under the practical conscmusness that his days are numbered, and that ‘ the night cometh in which no man can work.’ Go thou and do likewise Mo^cs OAra«^._Moderation in eating and drinking; short hours of labour and study—z.^. do not overwork; regularity in exercise recreation, and rest; cleanliness, by constanl usfof the are temperature, as much as possible ? '^hich surpasses all wealth—health ot be on your guard against your hoT of voumS '""ir V everywhere to the last hour of your life If you listen to it, it will frustrate all your designs It will make you lose the most important opportunities, and will inspire you with the inclinations and aversions of a child, to the prejudice of bvThf ^^“ses the greatest affairs to be decided y most paltry reasons; it obscures every talent, paralyses everv -Sr insupportable.^