THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 34 till tender, and cut it in pieces two inches long; make ^ pint of melted butter with milk; put in the celery with i blade of pounded mace, white pepper and salt to the taste, and simmer for three or four minutes, till the sauce thickens. It may be made brown by flavouring with mushroom ketchup or Harvey’s sauce. 4. Sphiach.—It must be washed through several waters to cleanse it from all grit; the stalks carefully picked off, then placed with some salt in a large saucepan, and only water sufficient to keep it from burning. It will take about a quarter of an hour. When done, squeeze it in a colander, put it with some butter in a hot dish, garnished with sippets of toasted bread, and place on the spinach either poached or hard eggs cut in slices. Spinach shrinks considerably in boiling. 5. Victoria Pudding.—Mix ^ oz. of ratafias, 3 oz. of stale French roll in fine crumbs, 3 oz. loaf sugar, 2 oz. sweet almonds blanched and pounded, 2 oz. beef marrow, 1 oz. baked flour, ^ pint milk, 3 fresh eggs. Mix and beat them briskly for ten minutes, and let it stand in a cool place for an hour. Beat again for ten minutes; put it in a mould well rubbed with butter, tastefully stuck with dried cherries or stoned raisins ; tie a cloth over, put it into plenty of boiling water, and boil fast for two and a half hours. 6. Sauce for Victoria Pudding. — Dissolve 3 oz. loaf sugar in a wine-glassful of water; boil till a syrup; then add, whisking rapidly, the yolks of 3 eggs beaten with a gill of cream and a wine-glassful of brandy. If properly made, it will look like rich smooth cream. -0— JANUARY a ‘ Covetousnessf hy a greediness oj getting more, deprives itself of the true end of getting; it loses the enjoyment of what it has got.'—SPRAT. 1. Turbot. 2. Lobster Sauce. 3. Fried Allerlee. 4. Roast Breast of Veal. 5. Mashed Potato. 6. Boiled Marmalade Pudding. 7. Sauce to Do. 1. Turbot.—The turbot-kettle must be of a proper size, and in the nicest order. Set the fish in cold water sufficient to cover it completely. Throw a glass of vinegar and a handful of salt into it, and let it gradually boil; being careful that no blacks fall on it, but preserve the beauty of the colour and skim it well. Serve it garnished with a com- plete fringe of curled parsley, lemon, and horseradish. 2. Lobster Sauce.—Take a fine hen lobster, when boiled, take out all the spawn, and bruise it in a mortar very fine, with a little butter;