BILL OF FARE FOR NOVEAIBER. 323 time with salt and water, to prevent the paper burning. A weight of 12 lbs. will take three hours. When nearly done, remove the paper, dredge with flour, and baste with butter until every part is nicely browned and frothed. Serve very hot, with a paper frill round the knuckle, and the gravy made from the trimmings, flavoured only with salt. Send red currant jelly to table with it. Note.—Venison should hang three or four weeks before dressing; in this case it is best to remove the outer skin before the joint is cooked. 3. Sauce to do.—Put a small jar of red currant jelly and i glass of port wine in a stewpan over the fire, and when melted, not boiled, pour in a tureen, and serve. 4. Bath Pudding.—Mix the milk and flour into a smooth hasty pudding. Pour it into a basin on the butter, and stir it till the butter is melted. When cold, add the eggs well beaten, sugar, nutmeg and the rind of a lemon, the juice of half a lemon, and a little ratafia or brandy. Bake it in a dish with a puflf paste on the edge. Put it in a brisk oven. Serve with wine sauce. NOVEMBER 15. ‘ You have greatly ventured; but all must do so, who would greatly win.'—Byron. 1. Turbot. 3. Orange Fritters. 2. Hashed Venison. 4. Vegetables. 2. Hashed Venison.—Parboil a small onion and stick it with cloves ; well wash and chop small an anchovy; put these in a stewpan with half a pint of port wine, a table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, another of Lopresti’s ‘Duke of Gloster’s Sauce,’ and two table-spoonfuls of currant jelly; as soon as these boil, take out the onion and put in the slices of venison, which should be cut moderately thin; five minutes will be quite time enough to warm the meat 3. Orange Fritters.—UskQ a light batter with Y 15, of flour, 2 eggs, i oz.^ of butter, l a salt-spoonful of salt, mixed with milk till of a proper- consistency. Peel the oranges, and as much of the white skin as you divide each into 8 pieces, take out the pips, being careful not to break the thin skin; then dip each piece in the batter; drop in the oranges into a pan of boiling lard or clarified dripping, and fry them for eight or ten minutes; when fried a delicate brown, lay them before the fire on blotting paper to drain away the grease ; serve very quickly (on a white d’oyley), with plenty of pounded sugar sprinkled over