4^9 RECIPES FOR ACCIDENTS, ETC. may be useful. They should be kept in a cupboard or box, easy of access:— Prepared chalk. Oil of peppermint. Laudanum. Opiate and aromatic confections. Tincture of rhubarb. Dr. Collis Brown’s chlorodyne. Dr. Gregory’s powder. Turkish rhubarb. Calcined magnesia. Epsom salts—Senna. Flour of sulphur. Cream of tartar. Cold-drawn castor oil. Antibilious pills. Seidlitz powders. Carbonate of soda. Carbonate of potass. Sal-volatile. Camphor julep. Sweet spirit ot nitre. Essence of ginger. Bitters. Dr. Davis’ Calorific and shield. Friar’s balsam. Opium plaster. Eye lotion {see receipt). Camomile flowers. Liquid blisters, and a camel’s-hair brush. Spermaceti ointment. Cold cream. Glycerine and rose-water. Adhesive plaster. Court plaster. Caustic—Iodine. Compound camphor liniment. Olive oil. Tincture of Arnica, tincture of Cal- endula. Condy’s Toilet and Disinfecting Fluids—Directions for use on the bottles. Bandages, lint, linen rag, medicated cotton, oil silk, spongio piline, scissors, ivory knife, syringes, etc. Healih.—A morning bath and daily exercise are proved to be pro- moters of health. When a bath cannot be obtained, a good substitute is to rub the body with wet towels, and then with dry coarse ones, till the skin glows. A glass of cold water drunk immediately after the bath will be found beneficial. Bathing.—or cold baths should not be taken till three hours, or longer, after a meal. Mustard Plaster. Mix the mustard with cold water, and knead it to the consistency ot putty. Spread it, the eighth of an inch thick, upon brown paper; warm it before the fire, and apply to the part affected. This plaster will be found more effectual than when made with hot water. ^ If the skin is very sensitive, brush the surface of the plaster over slightly with salad oil. Camphor Julep. Put an oz. of camphor into a quart bottle fill it with cold boiled water, cork it closely, and let it remain twenty-four hours ; then strain, and keep it for use. A wine-glassful is a dose. Fainting. If fainting be caused by an over-heated room or excite- ment, administer quickly a wine-glassful of camphor julep with a tea- spoonful of sal-volatile in it, and let the patient recline on the back If from debility, a large glass of sherry, and a reclining position. If from \