444 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. salt, and when the whole is well mixed and very hot, pour it over boiled mutton, veal, lamb, or poultry. Sufficient sauce should be made for some to be served very hot in a tureen, and the remainder poured over the meat, so as to cover it entirely; and when properly made, it greatly improves the appearance of a joint A little cayenne, tied in a muslin, may be boiled in the milk before it is mixed with the vegetables. Jerusalem artichokes make a more delicate sauce than turnips. The weight of both vegetables must be taken after they are pared. Asparagus Sauce.—Cut the green tender points of some young aspa- ragus into half-inch lengths, or into the size of peas only; wash them well, then drain, and throw them into plenty of boiling salt and water. When they are quite tender, which may be in from ten to fifteen minutes, turn them into a hot strainer and drain the water thoroughly from them ; put them at the instant of serving into ^ a pint of thickened veal gravy, mixed with the yolks of 2 eggs, and well-seasoned with salt and cayenne or white pepper, or into ^ a pint of good melted butter ; add to this last a squeeze of lemon-juice. The asparagus will become yellow if reboiled, or if left long in the sauce before served. Bechamel or White Sauce.—^Take an equal quantity (say a pint of each) of good cream and of strong pale veal gravy, and, by rapid boiling over a clear fire, reduce to nearly half; mix a table-spoonful of fine dry flour, to pour to the remainder when it nearly bods. If it boils, it will curdle, or burn, and must be done over a slow fire. Then add the gravy; stir and mix the sauce perfectly, and simmer for a few minutes longer. French cooks boil a few green onions, some branches of parsley, and a handful of mushrooms in the gravy before it is reduced, as all the flavour should be in the gravy. Benton Sauce (for hot or cold roast beef).—Grate or scrape some horseradish very fine; add a little made mustard, some white sugar pounded, and 4 large spoonfuls of vinegar. Bread Sauce.—Put into a bright saucepan 3 oz. of stale crumbs of bread, 2 cloves, 2 allspice, a ^ of an inch of mace, 3 peppercorns, an onion, ^ a salt-spoonful of salt, and f of a pint of new milk ; boil gently, and stir constantly for twenty minutes, then rub through a fine sieve; put it back into the saucepan, and stir in either 2 table-spoonfuls of thick cream or an oz. of fresh butter. Serve in a tureen. Melted Butter.—Mix, in the proportion of a tea-spoonful of flour to 4 oz. of the best butter, on a trencher. Put it into a small saucepan, and 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of hot water; boil quick a minute, shaking it all the time. Milk used instead of water requires rather less butter, and looks whiter. Caper Sauce for Fish.—To 6 spoonfuls of strong veal gravy or jelly, add ^ a pint of rich melted butter, a table-spoonful of essence of