THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 144 cabbage-lettuces shred fine, two cucumbers peeled and sliced, and two large onions sliced with their green. When nearly fried enough, stir in smoothly a dessert-spoonful of flour. Pour in gradually three quarts .of good veal broth. If you have a ham-bone, put it in; if not, two or three slices of lean ham, also three or four mealy potatoes mashed. Let all simmer a couple of hours, skimming off any fat which may rise, and taking care the vegetables do not stick to the bottom. Before serving, remove the ham-bone, and throw in a cupful of boiled green peas, with the liquor they were cooked in. You may also add either fried or toasted bread, cut in small squares. 2. Chump of Wrap the joint in a cloth in order to have_ it white and delicate ; put it into a pot with a little salt, and cover it with water ; let it simmer gently for about an hour and a half after it comes to a boil. When done, fry some thin rashers of ham or bacon, lay them round it on the dish, and serve it up with oyster sauce. 4. Fondue.—Take the same number of eggs as there are guests ; w'eigh the 'eg<^s in the shell, allow a third of their weight in Geny'ere cheese (o-ood Cheshire has been tried, and found to answer very well), and a niece of butter one-sixth of the weight of the cheese. Break the eggs into a basin, beat them well; add the cheese, which should be gratea, and the butter, which should be broken into small pieces. _ Stir these inaredients together with a wooden spoon, put the mixture into a lined saScepan, place it over the fire, and stir until the substance is thick and soft Put in a little salt, according to the age of the cheese, and a good sprinkling of pepper, and serve the fondue on ^ ^ metal plate. Do not allow it to remain on the fire after it is set, for it boils it will be entirely spoiled. Brillat Savarin recommends that some good Burgundy should be handed round with this dish. MAY 9. ‘ Each one in her own house, and God in them all. 1. Macaroni Soup. 2. Boiled Leg of Lamb. 3. Brussels Sprouts. 4. Cheesecakes and Blanc Mange. , Afacaroni 5oKA-Break the macaroni into moderate-sized piecM, or ;fte“ toied. cut into lengths of about 4 mches _ Pu m.o a kucepan about three “ tuTZ'Tioz.. wlmle the anrpnt in 1 lb of nracaroni. when it .s