CONFECTIONERY, CARES, ANN PRESERVES. 467 the length of a finger, and about two thick, over which sugar may be strewed, or a light glaze with isinglass. Or you may use macaroons to line the edge of the dish. Brandy Cream.—Boil 2 dozen of (blanched) almonds and pounded bitter almonds in a little milk. When cold, add to it the yolks of 5 eggs beaten well in a little cream; sweeten, and put to it 2 glasses of the best brandy; and when well mixed, pour to it a quart of thin cream ; set it over the fire, but do not let it boil; stir one way till it thickens, then pour into cups,, or low glasses. When cold it will be ready. A ratafia drop may be put in each if you choose it. If you wish it to keep, scald the cream previously. Coffee Cream.—Boil a calf’s foot in water till it wastes to a pint of jelly, clear of sediment and fat. Make a tea-cupful of very strong coffee. (Observe that your coffee be fresh.) Clear it with a bit of isinglass to be perfectly bright; pour to it the jelly, and add a pint of very good cream, and as much fine Lisbon sugar as is pleasant; give one boil up, and pour into the dish. It should jelly, but not be stiff. Currant Jam, Black, Red, or White.—In July.—Let the fruit be very ripe; pick it clean from the stalks, bruise it, and to every lb. put | of a lb. of loaf sugar; stir it well, and boil three-quarters of an hour. Gather the fruit on a dry day. Cover with brandy papers. Currant Jelly, Black or Red.—In July.—Strip the fruit, and in a stone jar strew them in a saucepan of water, or by boiling it on the hot hearth; strain off the liquor, and to every pint weigh a lb. of loaf sugar; put the latter in large lumps into it, in a stone or china vessel till nearly dissolved ; then put it in a preserving-pan; simmer and skim as neces- sary. When it will jelly on a plate, put it in small jars or glasses, and cover with brandy papers. Boil a quarter of an hour. Rich Custards.—Y>o\\ a pint of milk with lemon-peel and cinnamon • mix a pint of cream, and the yolks of 5 eggs well beaten; when the milk tastes of the seasoning, sweeten it enough for the whole; pour it into the cream, stirring it well; then give the custard a simmer'till of a proper thickness. Do not let it boil; stir the whole time one way Flavour with brandy. If to be extremely rich, put no milk, but a quart of cream to the eggs. Damson September or October.—Bake or boil the fruit in a stone jar in a saucepan of water, or on a hot hearth. Pour off some of the juice, and to every 2 lbs. of fruit weigh J a lb. of sugar. Set the fruit over a fire in the pan ; let it boil quickly until it begins to look dry • take out the stones and add the sugar; stir it well in, and simmer two' hours slowly; then boil it quickly i an hour, till the sides of the pan candy; pour the jam then into potting pans or dishes, about an inch tlnck, so that It may cut firm. If the skins be disliked, then the juice is