BILL OF BABE FOE NOVEMBER. 319 over the pie with a hole in the top, glaze and ornament it, and bake. 3. Lemo7i Turnovers.—Three dessert-spoonfuls of flour, i of powdered sugar, rind of i lemon, 2 oz. of butter, 2 eggs, and a little milk. NOVEMBER lO. 'Be not too tame neither, but let your 07un discretio7i be your tutor. Suit the action to the word, the word to the action ; with this special observance, that you derstep not the modesty op stature.'—Shakspeare. 1. Oyster Patties. 3. Adelind Pudding. 2. Veal and PIam Pie. 4. Vegetables. 1. Oyster Patties.—Should a dish of these savoury little pies be desired, either for lunch, supper, or to make out the bill of fare for your dinner, procure from a pastry-cook as many empty puff patties as re- quired. Beard and cut the oysters into four; stew them for a few minutes in their own liquor, mixed with cream, season’ed with a very small quantity of soluble cayenne, salt, powdered mace, and lemon- juice. When the fish is ready, remove with a spoon the top of the patty; fill with your stew, then rub the edges of the divided paste with white of egg; put on the tops, and place the patties on a slow oven for ten minutes before they are required. 2. Veal and Ham Pie.—Cut about 2 lbs. of veal and a lb. of ham or bacon into rather small cutlets; fry 3 or 4 minced mushrooms and a sprig of parsley in a small piece of butter seasoned with pepper and salt; then pour in a table-spoonful of ketchup, about -g- a pint of water (or gravy if you have it), dredge in some flour, and stir it all over the fire until it boils. Place the veal and ham alternately in a pie-dish lined with puff paste, pour in the gravy, add 5 or 6 hard-boiled eggs cut across, and cover the pie with puff paste; make a hole at the top, orna- ment it with paste in any forms you please, and bake it. Pour in a little more gravy, when done, through the hole at the top. 3. Adelind Puddhig.—Put the juice and the grated peel of the lemon into a stewpan, with the yolks of 4 eggs well beaten, and stir the whole over the fire until nearly boiling. Have ready the whites of the eggs whipped to a stiff froth, and stir them into the yolks, adding breakfast-cup of wine. Put the sponge biscuits into a dish, pour over them the remainder of the wine, and when soaked, lay over them some preserve, and pour the custard made from the lemon and the yolks of the eggs over them, then pile some whipped cream on the top and ornament it with harlequin comfits. ’