271 BILL OF FARE FOR SEPTEMBER. an upright position, the flat side inwards. Pour in the marmalade while hot, press it well in, cover with a dish, and let it remain in a cool place (or on ice) till firmly set. Turn out carefully; cover the top with Devonshire cream, or the juice of 2 lemons strained into ^ pint of thick cream, whipped with a whisk to a creamy froth, and serve at once. SEPTEMBER 18. ‘ Tivo gardeners, who were neighbours, had their crops of early peas killed by the frost. One of them came to condole with the other. Ah,” cried he, " how unfortunate! Do you know, neighbour, that I have done nothing but fret ever since ? But, bless me, yon seem to have a fine crop coming up ! what are these ?” “ Why, these are what I sowed immediately after my loss.” “ What! cosning up already ?” said the fretter. “ Fes,” replied the other ; “ while you were FRETTING, I was WORKING. ” ’ 1. Palestine Soup. 3. Vegetables. 2. Roast Hare. 4. Spongecake Pudding. 1. Palesfme Soup.—Pare and cut into pieces 6 lbs. of Jerusalem artichokes, 3 turnips, i onion, and a head of celery; put them into a stewpan with sufficient white stock to cover them, and let them boil gently for an hour until they are quite tender; then rub them through a sieve. If the puree be too thick, thin it with a little fresh milk : boil all together again; add \ pint of good cream, or milk, and season it with a spoonful of sugar; pepper, salt, and cayenne to your taste. Send it up very hot, with some fried bread separately, cut into very small dice. 2. Roast Hare.—After the hare is skinned and prepared, wipe it dry with a clean cloth, fill the belly with well-seasoned veal stuffing, and sew it up. Draw the fore and hind legs close to the body, and pass a long skewer through each. Tie a string round the body, from one skewer to the other, and secure it above the back. Fix the head between the shoulders with another skewer, and be careful to leave the ears on. Place it at some distance from the fire when first it is put down, and baste it well with milk for a short time, and afterwards with butter. Just before it is done, dredge over it a little flour, and baste it well with butter to make a fine froth. When done, take it up on a hot dish, remove the skewers, and pour a little good gravy into the dish. Serve gravy in a tureen. 4- Spongecake Pudding.—'SiO^k. some cakes in a little milk, and mix them with the juice and grated peel of half a lemon, a piece of butter, a very little loaf sugar, and i egg. Beat all together, and bake it in a quick ovem