332 FRENCH COOKERY. to be hard with a little bitter, an agreeable and resin- ous flavour, which it acquires from the cask. The Malvoisie of the same vineyard is also excellent, and is much sought after by gourmands ; it is soft, pleasant, and healthy. Of the Spanish wines the best and the most known are those of Malaga; they are of different qualities : they ought to be chosen oily, without being thick, of a fine taste and nearly of a golden colour ; there are some red, which are excellent; they keep very well, and preserve their fine flavour. They are drunk in France at desserts, and given as restoratives; but if taken to excess become dangerous. As to port wine, suffice it to say, that its good qualities are known. It ought to be kept three or four years. The British isles consume a great quantity of it: there are both white and red; but the white is not very common. Among the Spanish wines that of Alicant is distin- guished, which possesses the same virtues, though less agreeable to drink, which conies from its being thick ; it is of a deep red colour, bordering upon the black when new. It is necessary to keep it a long time, that it may depose, and to change it often in the wood; when it is bottled, though drawn off perfectly clear, it still deposes a sediment; it must therefore be de- canted. When it is old, it acquires more quality, and its colour is then that of the skin of an onion ; then it is truly good and beneficial; it repairs the debility of the human frame from whatever cause, and gives a tone to the stomach ; but it must be used in moderation, as it is very heating. Those of Rota have the same qualities and colour, but a more agreeable flavour. That of Xeres is white, hard, and bitterish : it is one of the best of the Spanish wines, and is drunk at desserts. That of the Canaries is preferred to all the wines of the Malvoisie by real connoisseurs, because it is light and keeps long. It is a made wine, of muscatel raisins ; it has excellent qualities for the stomach, but must be avoided by the bilious. The Packarets are hard and very pleasant. Those