FRENCH COOKERY. 234- tlie juice of three oranges with their skins hashed ; add half a pound of sugar, two ounces of potatoe flour, and six yolks; beat the whites and mix them also; make a long paper case; butter, fill, and bake it in a slow oven; when done, cover it with a glace royale about the thickness of a shilling; serve this cake whole, or cut it. Biscuit manque. Put into a basin half a pound of sugar, six yolks of eggs, and a few orange flowers ; beat them well; add a handful of almonds properly beaten, six ounces of butter, and four ounces of flour which has been dried and sifted; whip six whites and add them lightly; make a paper case, put in the ingredients, and bake it in an oven heated as for biscuit: while it is in the oven cut almonds in little dice ; put to them about a third of sugar; wet them with water or the-white of an egg beaten ; when the manque is three-fourths baked, glaze and cover it with the almonds; finish its baking by making it take, a fine colour ; cut it in any form, and serve it. Aggyzinas. Fanchonnettes. Put in a stewpan two ounces of flour, three of sugar, some green citron, two yolks of eggs, a whole egg, and two ounces of beaten almonds; add a pint of milk; put these ingredients upon the fire, and make it come to a cream; have puft paste; roll it out thin; cut it with a pastecutter the size of crown pieces; put them into moulds of the same size ; put in the cream ; and put it into a brisk oven: when three fourths baked, take them out, meringue them, dust them with sugar, and put them again into the oven to take a fine co- lour. Small Cakes. Petits Gateaux Polonais. Have puft paste sufficient for the quantity wanted, give it another turn or a turn and half more; roll it thin, cut it in squares of three inches; wet them slightly, take up the four corners to the centre; dress them on a leaf; glaze, and put them in the oven: when ready to serve, put into each a cherry or a little verjuice; they may be served in gros buisson, or as little entremets.