57 BEEF. pan nve or six large spoonfuls of (Palienne rousse,) which must be reduced to two-thirds ; put in the palates, and let them simmer a little ; toss them ; put in a little lemon juice, and serve. Palates another ivay. Palais deBceuf a la Poulette. Prepare as above the same quantity of palates; cut them round or in slices; put them into a stew- pan with three large spoonfuls of veloute ; let them sim- mer ; make a thickening with two yolks of eggs, mix them with a little milk or cream ; take the palates from the fire, put in the thickening, and set them on the fire, shaking them continually; put in a little, bit of butter, lemon, or verjuice, and minced parsley. The dish may be garnished with fried corks of bread. Palaces another way. Palais de Bceuf a la Ravigote. When cut in shapes as above, toss them in a cold or hot ravigote sauce, (see that article), and serve. Palates another way. Croquettes de Palais de Bceiif. Cook three palates in a blanc, cut them as above, as also mushrooms and truffles ; reduce four spoonfuls of Espngnole or veloutd to half glaze, put in the in- gredients with minced parsley; take it off the fire; thicken w'ith two yolks of eggs and the size of a walnut of butter; put it into a dish, spread it with the blade of a knife, leaving it pretty thick ; when the salpiqon is cold, cut it in equal squares, give it my form, cutlets, cannelons, pears, or little balls; beat three eggs, put in a little fine salt, dip them all in one after another, roll them in crumbs of bread, in keeping the form that has been given them; put them on a dish ; put the crumbs of bread again through a search ; dip a second time the croquettes into the egg, pass them again; powder the dish with crumbs, put them upon it, and cover them with crumbs, that they may not dry ; when ready to serve, take them out of the crumbs, put them upon a cou-oercle, place it upon the fire, and turn the croquettes at one time, that they may have the same colour; take them off, drain and dish them upon fried parsley, d 5