313 SYRUPS. fine red vinegar, otherwise use white; add two pounds of currants; let the whole infuse eight days, in shaking and stirring it every day with a spatula ; pass it through a search ; when it is well drained clarify nine pounds of sugar and bring it to the fort souffle, or to the petit boulet: when at that point put in the vinegar which has been passed through a bag, and at the first boil be careful to take it from the fire; skim it and put it immediately into a vessel, that it may not remain in the pan: when cold bottle it. Currant Syrup. Sir op de Groseillcs. Break in a search five or six pounds of red currants and two pounds of cherries ; put this juice into the cellar to ferment for eight days; at the end of that time pass it through a bag ; put it into four pounds of sugar au petit perle, and at the first boil take it off the fire and skim it The fruit is fermented to prevent its becoming jelly in the bottles. Orange Flower Syrup. Sirop de Fleur d'Orange. For three quarters of a pound of orange flowers fresh picked, take four pounds of clarified sugar au perle, throw in the flowers, and give them a strong boil; take them off the fire, and leave them to infuse two hours ; put the syrup again on the fire, and give it a dozen of boils; have a search put over a dish, and pour it in to take out the flowers ; put it again on the fire to finish, and bring it to its proper degree ; let it cool in a basin ; bottle it. Not to lose the orange flowers put them in sifted sugar, rub them well, and dry them in a stove. Syrup of Pomegranates. Sirop de Grenades. Take a sufficient quantity of fine ripe pomegranates, of which the grains are very red ; five fine ones ought to give four pints of syrup ; break the grains ; put them on the fire with two pints of water, and let them boil seven or eight minutes; put it then through a cloth, wringing it well to express all the juice; have a pound and a half of sugar au souffle, and put in the juice; boil it till it arrives at its proper point; finish it as the other. p