FOWLS. 135 and throw them into the veloute ; give them a boil, put in a little blanched minced parsley, a pat of butter, and a little large pepper ; when ready to serve, squeeze in a lit- tle lemon-juice, taste, and pour it over the fowls. Folds with Truffle. Poulets Sauce aux Truffles. As directed above with Truffle Sauce. Folds with Love Apple. Foidets aux Sauce Tomate. The same with love-apple sauce. Fords with Tarragon. Poulets a I’Estragon. The same with VEstragon Sauce. Fowls as Lizards. Poulets en Lezard. Prepare two fine fowls ; cut off the legs and pinions, keeping the skin entire, even that of the throat; open them by the back-bone entirely, spread them upon a clean cloth, farce them with a farce cuite de volaille ; strip them, giving them the form of a lizard; make the stuffed neck the tail, the thighs the hind legs, and the ends of the wings the fore legs, the breast the back, and for the head a truffle cut into the shape, or a tur- nip, which must be introduced into the body; soften some of the farce cuite with a little veloute, spread it thinly over the back of the lizard, decorate it with dif- ferent coloured omelets, white, green, red, and yellow ; imitate the rich colours of the animal (see petites ome- lettes) ; cover an oval stewpan with barbs of lard, put in the lizards, taking care to preserve their form; poele them as fowls a l'entree de broche ; cover with strong paper and a cover ; let them boil, and then sim- mer with very little fire over, as it would alter the co- lour ; when done drain them, and serve them upon a ravigote or Hollandaise verte. (See these articles.) Fowls with Pease. Poulets aux Pois. Take half a pound of the breast lard, cut it in large dice, take off the skin and blanch it; drain and put it into a stewpan, with a quarter of a pound of butter; make a roux (see that article); pass the lard in it, letting it brown a little; when it is a fine white, put in two young fowls, cut up as for a fricassee; moisten with a ladle-full of bouillon, mix it well; season with