331 WINES. connoisseurs and gourmands; at St. George two kinds are made; those "that are destined to carry the name of Wermoute are made by adding a thimble-full ot the extract of wormwood to a half bottle, corking it well, which gives it that bitter taste, and excellent quality of fortifying the stomach and facilitating the digestion. There is no vineyard of that name, nor any grape that has the taste. The tokai is well known by name, but few know the quality from drinking it. It is an excel- lent wine, but cannot be bought, as the Emperor of Germany is the sole possessor of the territory in which it is cultivated. The Emperor of Russia possesses a small portion of this territory as a gift from the Em- peror of Austria, so that these two sovereigns are at present the possessors of this invaluable wine, of which they make presents to the ambassadors of different courts, &c.&c. and sometimes, though rarely, finds its way from sales into the market. This wine, excellent as it is, does not easily bear fermentation or clearing: should a bottle not completely filled be left, in a few days it will be hardly recognizable. It is said that the wines grown on the higher vineyards are not sub- ject to this inconvenience. The wines of Greece most esteemed are those of Cyprus; they keep fifty years, and even more, and have always been in great repute. They are very pleasant and agreeable; but extremely dear, and very often adulterated: they are nourishing and balsamic, smell a little of the skin or outre in which they are kept; and although disagreeable to some, it is perhaps the surest mark of their genuineness. After this wine comes that of Stam^on ; it is thicker than that of Cyprus, which has a very agreeable fla- vour. There is another of the same isle, which passes for nectar; it is called Chio. The ancients sought this wine for libations and sacred purposes : little of it comes to Europe. There is also the Malvoisie of Cy- prus ; it is a muscated wine, that is much esteemed : it is often sold for that of Syracuse. Madeira is well known. This wine to be good ought