278 FRENCH COOKERY. Apple Jelly. Jelee de Pommes. Take any quantity of fine rennets; pare and cut them in pieces; wash and rub them with the hands in hot water, to make them thoroughly clean; drain and put them in a pan with as much water as they will swim in, but no more ; give them a boil so that they may be enough without being broken; put them into a search to drain ; have sugar ready at the first lisse ; and for every two spoonsful of sugar put three of juice, if it is strong, and four if it is weak; the sugar may be done to the first souffle; put in the juice, and do it over a strong fire, until it falls in bits ; add the juice of a lemon, and put it in pots or shapes. Plumbs in Sugar. Prunes de Reine Claude. Take a hundred fine plumbs, not ripe, but come to their full size; prick them with a nail, put them into fresh water, and blanch them; stir from time to time; when they begin to rise in the water take them off the fire, and put in the juice of two or three lemons, to assist them in regaining their colour ; leave them in it at night; put them again on the fire, without allowing them to boil; clarify five pounds of sugar; take out the half and put in the plumbs; give them five or six boils ; take them out, and put them into a basin till next day ; drain them out, and boil up the sugar, adding a little of that in reserve ; put them again into a basin, and go on boiling and adding the sugar till the fifth day, and finish them, observing the directions before given on this head. Plumbs in Brandy. Prunes a VEau- de- Vie. Plumbs in brandy are done in the same manner; give them two or three boils in sugar, they are then drained, and the sugar boiled up and mixed with the brandy, and poured over them; or put the clarified sugar to the brandy; bottle the fruit, and add the syrup. Blanching Plumbs. — La Blanchissage de Prunes. There are none but green plumbs that can beat double blanching, as the Reine-Claude and the lie verte ; all the yellow plumbs blanch immediately, and