100 FRENCH COOKERY blood with four pints of rich cream, hashed fine herbs, fine spices, salt, and pepper, mix all well together; take the puddings of hogs or sheep, which must be well scraped and cleaned; fill them with a filler; but do not make them too full, otherwise they might break; tie them into proper lengths; put them into a pot of warm water, and do them over a slow fire to prevent their breaking; turn them carefully with a skimmer; if they are pricked, and the fat comes out, they are sufficiently done; take them up upon a cloth and let them cool; when they are to be sent to table cut and grill them. Puddings another way. Boudin, a la fayon de Nanterre. Take a sufficient quantity of onions, put them in a wboden bowl, and with a harness-maker’s knife mince them; then put them in a stewpan writh some of the cauls; put them upon the fire till the onions are well done, without being browned ; let them cool a little ; put in the blood; and mix seasoning with fine salt, fine herbs, and spices ; add cream, and finish as before. White Pudding. Boudin Blanc. Cook a dozen of onions as directed for boudin ordi- naire; make a very dry panada of cream; put the onions with it into a mortar, adding sweet almonds that have been put through a search ; mix altogether ; add some raw yolks of eggs, caul cut in dices, white of roasted fowls hashed very fine; pound altogether, and moisten with warm rich cream ; season with salt and fine spices; taste if it is good, and fill the skins. These puddings do not require so much cooking as the black ; instead of water use milk; let them cool and prick them, instead of cutting, before they are put upon the grill: the best manner of doing them is to put them into a white paper case. Craw-fish Pudding. Boudin d'Ecrivisses. Take half a hundred of craw-fish, and boil them in bouillon ; let them cool; take the shells off the claws and tails, and suppress that of the bodies ; dry the shells, pound and make a butter of them (see Beurre d'Ecre-