french cookery. 330 of Languedoc, l’Hermitage, de la Cote Rotie, du Dauphine, and of Provence. The most known are the hermitage of a fine red and high flavour; they must be kept some years, as otherwise they are harsh, but de- licious when of a proper age. The white wines are more heady, and verge to the yellow. Those of Rou- sillon are stronger and thicker ; it is necessary to keep them a long time, and not to bottle them till they are fine, which happens in consequence of proper treat- ment, sooner or later; this wine keeps thirty years, and often much longer; at that age, it acquires the taste of Alicante; it ought always to be decanted with care, as it deposes a sediment in bottle; the white is not subject to this inconvenience. The wines of Languedoc are all very good, and favourites of the fair sex : the most esteemed are those of Frontignac, of which there are both red and white. This wine unfortunately grows thick and is heady. Then comes the Lunel, red and white: there are years in which it is as good as the Frontignac. The Juran^on in Bearn, Basses Pyrennees, is an ex- cellent white wine ; it is principally distinguished by a flavour of truffle, and has the advantage of keeping long The wines of Provence are good, but the red are rather thick; the white for the most part are mus- ky ; those in chief repute are the gemenos, which are called the wines of Toulon ; the marque of Barbau- tan, and many others which are drunk at desserts or collations. — The wines of Tavelle are heady, but ex- cellent ; those of Cote-Rotie, Saint Peyret, and Con- drieux are most esteemed : formerly they were served at the best tables with entremets; they are now replaced by those of Bourdeaux.— Those of Barre, Moselle, and the Rhine, are highly esteemed. — The wines of Barre are agreeable and light, but do not bear transportation. The Moselle are white, light, aperient, and very good. The most esteemed of the Rhine are white : of the Hungarian wines the St. George’s is that which is sold at a high rate for tokai: it resembles it very much, but the great difference is known to tbe