158 FRENCH COOKERY. Another Way. Pigeons a la Crapandine. Take three pigeons, truss the legs within, cut the flesh off the breast by sliding in the knife at the side of the leg, and running it up to the joint of the wing; turn the breast over, and flatten the body with the handle of a knife; take a stewpan large enough to contain them in the flattened state; melt a bit of butter in it; add salt and large pepper; put in the pigeons with their breasts down; turn them, and when three-fourths done, drain them and put them on the grill over a slow fire; give them a fine colour, and serve them under sauce an pauvre homme. Small Pigeons. Pigeons a la Gautier. Take six or seven of these small pigeons, singe them very carefully; they ought only to be seven or eight days old; cut their nails ; warm three quarters of a pound of very nice butter, with the juice of two or three lemons and a little fine salt; put in the pi- geons; let them come lightlyx'; do not pass them over charcoal, as it would harden the skin; take them off the fire and cover another stewpan with barbs of lard ; put in the pigeons, that the feet may be in the middle of the stewpan ; baste them over with the whole of the butter, and moisten with a poele: if there is none, put in a glass of white wine, and a ladleful of consomme, a quarter of raspt lard, and a seasoned bunch of sweet herbs ; cover the pigeons with barbs of lard, and a round of paper; a quarter of an hour before serving, make them boil and put them upon a paillasse; dish them with a nice crawfish between each, and a fine truffle on the top ; sauce them either with a sauce vert beurre d'ecrevisses, or an aspic. Another Way. Pigeons au Basilic. If there are as many of these small pigeons left, or of dessert, (the French call any thing left dessert,) to make an entree, take a farce cuitede volaille, and put into it a small quantity of minced basil if it is green; if dry, pound and sift it: cut off the feet of the pigeons, * Let them come, that is, let them stiffen; let them come lightly, is to let them stiffen less.