51 BEEF. D 2 sweet herbs, a clove of garlic, two cloves, salt, a ladleful of bouillon, and a glass of white wine; when half done put in six or eight white onions ; put fire over and under ; when it is cooked take a little of the stock and reduce it, to glaze the beef and onions; dish it and garnish it with the carrots and onions ; glaze the whole, put the remainder of the stock into the glaze, and sauce the beef with it. Ribs of Beef with Roots. Cotes de Bceuf couverte de Racines. Take the covered ribs and lard them with large lard; do them in the same braise* as the foregoing article ; cut a sufficient quantity of carrots to cover the beef, blanch them, cook them in a stewpan with some of the stock of the beef; let them glaze; take a spoonful of flour and a little butter ; make a roux, moisten it; when it is very white put in the stock of the beef and cook it; skim and put it through a search over the carrots ; put the whole upon the fire with the size of a nut of sugar and a pat of butter ; toss all well together that the butter may be perfectly incorporated; pour it over the beef, and serve. The Ribs under the Shoulder.- Entre-c6te de Bceuf. The entre-cote lies under the shoulder blade; the best part is that which is nearest the covered ribs, they require to be kept to tender them, the fatter they are the more delicate. Take out the nerves, cut them the breadth of two fingers, flatten them, powder them lightly with salt, put them on a grid- iron over a brisk fire, turn them often till they are done, and serve them with a sauce (hachees), or put a . bit of butter on a dish, lay them over it, and turn them, adding a little lemon or verjuice. Fillet of Beef. Filet de Bceuf Pique a la Broche Take a nice fillet, from which must be taken the fibrous skin, and any other small nerves, without hurting the appearance of the beef; pare and cut * To braize, signifies to cook meats with vegetables and other ingredients, which, though always of that nature, vary according to the meats.