52 FRENCH COOKERY out the points, and let it have only the thickness of two fingers; lard it equally all over. [A long de- scription is here given how to lard a thing which can hardly be done without practice, and what every tolerable cook is equal to.] Put it, after it is lard- ed, into a marinade or pickle, by pouring over it a little olive-oil, salt, pepper, sliced onions, and bay leaves; after it has been sufficiently marinaded, spit it, which may be done in various ways, in the form of a serpent, gimblet, or horse shoe; let i? be done be- fore a brisk fire, and serve it with a sauce (hackee or poivrade.) Fillet of Beef tvith Madeira. Filet de Bceuf au Vin de Madere. Take a nice fat fillet of beef, lard and prepare it as is directed for flet de bceuf a la broche; cover a stew- pan with carrots, onions, and a bunch of sweet herbs, and put slices of bacon round it; put the fillet upon the vegetables, after they have been strewed with a quarter of a pound of rasped lard; having made the fillet into the form of a gimblet, put in half a bottle of Madeira, as much stock, a little salt, and let it boil upon a good fire ; then cover with two or three rounds of buttered paper; cover it, and put hot coals over it, lessen the fire under that it may only simmer. When done, or nearly so, put the greatest part of its seasoning through a gauze search, returning what does not go through it into the wells of the fillet to nourish it, and keep it moist; put what has run through the search into a stewpan with a large spoon- ful of espagnole; let it reduce to the consistence of half glaze ; drain the fillet, glaze it, and dress it upon a dish. Finish with a bit of butter ; season it, and put it into the wells of the fillet, serve. Fillet of the Loin rvith Cucumbers. Filet d'Aloyau aux Concombres. Follow the above directions without using Madeira, put in its stead a glass of white wine and a little more soup or stock, and do in the same manner; mix a part of the stock and a spoonful of espagnole ; reduce,