FRENCH COOKERY. 212 ter upon all sides, and flatten the mass with the palm of the hand; let it rest a quarter of an hour; for eight pounds, which is the above proportion, give it five turns, or five and a half, but that depends upon the measure; to ten pounds of butter to the bushel of flour, (that is, a pound and quarter to the pound of flour), give six turns or six and a half. Use this paste for (vol au vent) tarts for entremets, petits pates au naturel; tartlets, all sorts of light pastry, and for sweetmeats. Petits Pates au Naturel. Roll out the paste for the bottom of the pates, and cut them the size necessary, either of a feuilletage, or of a. pate brisre ; put them upon an oven leaf, and put upon each, the size of a walnut, of the farce called ciboulette or godiveau; if for maigre, use the farce de carpes; make the covers three times the thick- ness of the bottoms, and of the same size; press them lightly down and glaze them ; a quarter of an hour is sufficient in the oven; they ought to be served im- mediately. Petits Pates au Jus. Roll out a piece of pate brisde, and cover little moulds with it; fill them with the farce ciboullette, or godiveau; if for maigre, fill them with & farce of carp, and a maigre sauce; cut the covers much thicker of puffed paste or feuilletage ; glaze and put them into the oven; when enough, take off their covers, cut the farce, and take them out of the moulds ; dish, and sauce them with a good espagnole reduite and serve. Petits Pates a la Bdchamelle. Roll out a piece of feuilletage (puff paste) pretty thick, and such as has had five* turns; cut the bottoms with a small paste cutter of an inch and half over ; put them upon a leaf; turn and glaze them; mark * Paste that has had a pound and a quarter of butter to the pound of flour. To give paste one turn is to roll it at first out as long as it will bear without the butter coming through; then fold in three, and roll it out as before. I'll is operation, therefore, must be continued as is necessary, four, five, or six times ; half a turn is made by folding it in two.