160 FRENCH COOKERY. months, unless the winter is very moderate ; the young are good, resembling much the domestic, which are of the same family, and are all served in the same manner; they are difficult of digestion, but very use- ful in domestic economy. Green Goose roasted. Oieon a la Broche. Take a fine, plump, fat, green goose, the fat of which must be very white ; if the upper part of the back breaks easily, the fowl is young; cut off the pinions, and prepare it; blanch the legs, and cut the nails; wipe it well with a cloth ; truss it, leaving its legs en long, that is to say, stretched out ; spit it, and take care that it is not over-done, which will be known by touching the fillet with a knife, the juice will flow. Goose with Chesnuts. Oie aux Marrons. Prepare a goose exactly as in the foregoing article; mince the liver; cut an onion in small pieces, and pass it in raspt lard ; prepare fifty chesnuts as is directed, (au Potage a la Puree de Marrons,) let them simmer in the sauce ; season with salt, pepper, and fine spices; when the chesnuts are ready, turn in the rump of the goose, and sew it up; stuff it by the craw, and sew it up ; spit it, and let it have an hour and a quarter. Another Way. Oie a la Chipolata. Prepare a fine young fat goose, with the legs trussed within ; cover it with slices of lard, and tie it up ; cover a braisiere with barbs, put over it some trimmings of butcher’s meat, two slices of bacon with the goose giblets, a bunch of parsley, and green onions, three turned carrots, two or three onions stuck with cloves, a clove of garlic, thyme, bay, basil, and salt; put in the goose, moisten with a glass of Madeira, or if any other white wine, more of it, and bouillon, as much as covers the goose ; let it boil; put over buttered paper; cover it, and put it on a paillasse, with fire under and over; leave it an hour and half; when enough drain it; dish and masque it with a Chipolata. Legs and Wi?igs of Geese. Cuisses et Ailes d'Oies ii la Faqon de Baionne. Take the quantity of geese that is required and cut