232 FRENCH COOKERY. design of the tartlets or shape of the dish: add a border the same height; put them to dry, and bake as the above: when ready to serve, fill them with different coloured sweetmeats. Ladies Lips. Bouchies de Dames. Take six eggs; put them into a dish with a quarter of a pound of sifted sugar, and three ounces of potatoe flour; beat them as for biscuit; then butter a leaf, upon which spread it lightly; bake it for a quarter of' an hour in a slow oven; when enough cut it with a round paste cutter the size of half a crown, and glaze them either white or chocolate: for this purpose, put into a dish some sugar sifted through a gauze search, with the white of an egg; beat this with a wooden spoon, adding by little and little the juice of a lemon, till it is very white; if the glazing is to be chocolate, instead of lemon put a sufficiency of chocolate in powder; with either of these cover the bouchi'es; dry them at the mouth of the oven; dress and serve. Pistache Cakes. —Gaujfres de Pistaches. Take half a pound of pate de brioche; wet it with half a glass of Madeira; add three ounces of sifted sugar and two ounces of currants ; spread this upon a buttered oven leaf, about the thickness of half an inch; bake it a quarter of an hour in a quick oven; cut it into two inches square; glaze them with sucre au cafe, strew them with pistaches cut small; or serve them without any glazing, which the French call au naturel. Glazed Biscuits. Genoises glacees a VItalienne. Put into a sweetmeat-pan five ounces of sugar and five eggs; mix as for biscuit; add a quarter of a pound of flour, and as many sweet almonds beaten; butter a leaf, and roll the paste the thickness of a crown piece; bake it in a quick oven; let it have a fine colour; when done cut it into any form; clarify a pound of sugar (au sojtfflc); put the pan into cold water, and gather the sugar, having whipt five whites of eggs, mix them gradually into it; cover the genoises with this glazing; put them to dry a quarter of an hour in a stove, and serve.