180 FRENCH COOKERY. Pike Salad. Salade de Brocket. See Salade de Poulet. BARBILLON Is of the same nature, but less esteemed than the carp, and is cooked exactly in the same way. EEL. Anguille it la Broche. A fine eel has its belly silvery and its back slate- coloured ; kill it, and turn it upon hot cinders till the skin is completely grilled ; wipe and scrape it; cut off the fins and skin it; take oft’ the head and the end of the tail ; to gut it open the top of the throat and a jittle at the naval; then with the large end of a lar- der push the entrails through the throat, so that no- thing may remain in the stomach; wash it and turn it round; fix it with small silver skewers, and tie it up : put it into a stewpan and pour over it a good mirepois (see Mirepois, article Sauce); let it be half done; drain, fix it to the spit, and cover it; when done unco- ver it; let it dry, glaze and dish ; take out the skewers, and serve under it an Italienne rousse or a ravigote. Another Wap. Anguille a la Sainte Menehould. Prepare an eel as above ; put it in a tartpan, co- vered entirely with a Sainte Menehoidd; take it out of that sauce when nearly done ; strew crumbs over, and put it into an oven till it takes a fine colour; un- lace and put into the well a thick, white, Italian sauce, or a white ravigote. (See article Sauce Italienne blanche, Ravigote blanche.) Another Way. Anguille ala Poulette. Take an eel and order it as in the foregoing re- ceipts ; cut it in equal junks, wash it and leave it to blanch ; scrape and clean the blood well out; put into a stewpan a bit of butter, the eel, and some mush- rooms ; set them for a moment upon the fire; dust with flour ; add a little stock, gras or maigre, and half a bottle of white wine, taking care to stir with a wotfden spoon till it boils; add a little parsley and shallots, half a bay leaf, one clove, salt and pepper, twenty or thirty small onions ; let it simmer and reduce; take off the fat, and take out the bunch of herbs; thicken it