315 LIQUEURS BY INFUSION. p 2 Ratifa des quaire Fruits. Take five pounds of merisses, five of griottes, both cherries, five of currants, and five of rasps; all ripe, particularly the merisses and griottes, as it is these that give the fine colour; take the stalks off the cher- ries, pick the currants and raspberries; break them all separately, and mix them in an earthen pan for five hours ; after that, wring them out through a new cloth, or press them ; allow half a pint of brandy, and a quarter of a pound of sugar, broken in pieces, to half a pint of juice; being mixed well, put it into a stone bottle, or a small barrel, for a month ; let it clear, and draw it off gently while it runs clear; let the remainder be passed through a bag, till it become clear also ; put all together, and bottle it. Observations. — To aromatize it, put in the following spiceries : i. e. half an ounce of fine cinnamon, two drachms of mace, twenty cloves; break and tie them in a bit of linen, and fix them by a thread to the stone S bottle, or the bung of the cask, that it may be taken out at will. This ratijia retains the flavour of the fruit so well, that it is often preferred without the spiceries. Ratijia de Framboises. Take six pounds of rasps ; pick them ; put them into ajar with twelve quarts of brandy, two drachms of cinnamon, and one of mace bruised ; dissolve three pounds of sugar in three quarts of water, which must be added to the other ingredients; mix it, and leave it for fifteen days to infuse, shaking it from time to time pass it through a bag, and bottle it. Ratijia of Quinces. Raljia de Coins. Thirty large quinces will be necessary to make eight quarts of juice; choose the smoothest, ripest, and yellowest; wipe them to take off the down, and rasp them to the heart; keep out the seeds; leave them in a vessel three days; at that time express the juice through a new cloth, wringing it strongly ; measure it; if eight quarts, more or less, put in as much water; dissolve in the juice twelve ounces