173 FISH. i 3 little red vinegar; rub it boiling hot equally over it, to give a blue colour; put to it a little braise grasse or maigre ; cover it with a buttered paper, and set it upon a slow fire; when enough, drain and send it to table upon a napkin garnished with parsley. Fried Carp Carpfrite. Take off the scales and cut the fins, raise the skin, open it by the back; divide the head; take out the ears and the yellow stones that are found in the head; put it into a little milk; flour and fry it; when half donfe, flour the roes and put them in; fry the Carp firm and of a fine colour ; drain and serve it upon a napkin garnished with the roes. Grilled Carp. Carp grillee. Scale and wash the carp; cut the fins and the point of the tail; take out the ears ; gut it without opening the belly much ; taking care not to break the gall; raise the skin ; dip the roe into butter and fine herbs, such as parsley and scallions hashed, seasoned with salt and pepper; put it into the belly of the carp, and sew' it up ; put it upon a dish ; pour over it a little oil, hashed herbs, and fine salt; grill it; draw out the threads, and serve with a w'hite sauce and capers, or a Maitre d'hutel chaud. (See Maitre d'hutel liie, article Sauces.) Another Way. Matelote de Carpes et d'Anguilles. Take a male and female carp ; scale, clean, and gut them ; dress the roe and melt separate; cut the fins and the points of the tails; take the ears and the yel- low stones from their heads; cut them in equal junks ; skin an eel; pass it over the fire to stiffen it; take off the head and the end of the tail; gut and cut it in pieces; put into a saucepan sliced onions and carrots, branches of parsley, some scallions, a clove of garlic, two bay leaves, a little thyme, two cloves, a little fine spicery, salt, pepper, and two bottles of white cham- pagne; let the eel be half done, then add the pickerel, and when it is half done, put in the carp; let it boil upon a strong fire; cover the saucepan ; the carp takes