49 BEEF. light. Run the different jellies into dishes that they may be cut out the thickness of an inch at least, of different shapes, that it may be elegantly garnished ; unbind the beef and take off the outer skin nicely; pare, and dish it; garnish it with the jellies, and make a complete circle round the dish, disposing the dif- ferent colours with taste, and serve. Round of Beef. Rosbif Rond-bif ou Corne-bif. Take a round of beef, of such a size as is necessary, and as fat as possible; dry and pound-three or four pounds of salt, put it through a search, and mix fine spices and aromatics in powder; rub the beef ex- tremely well all over with it, and put it into an earth- en vessel as near as possible of the shape and'size, and strew over it all the seasoning that has been left; cover it closely over with some folds of cloth, and tie it round the vessel to exclude the air; put it in a cool place; leave it four days, then turn it, which must be continued for eight or ten days ; when it is to be used take it out, drain it, and tie it into a proper shape ; put upon the fire a round pot that will contain the beef easily; put in water, carrots, turnips, onions, four cloves, four bay leaves ; let them boil, and put in the beef; let it be put upon a turbot drainer, that it may be taken out without breaking or piercing it; let it boil three hours, dish it and garnish it with the vege- tables with which it has been cooked ; serve it with two sauces in boats; one of butter, and the other with beef-juice. Brocoli may be served also. (See Choux Brocoli, Article Entremets). It may again be served cold with English mustard and pickled cucumbers. Smoked or Hung Beef. Bccuf fume ou de Ham- bourg. Employ the same manner as above, adding salt- petre, juniper berries, and other aromatics; after twelve days skewer it, leave it to drain a whole day, and put it in the smoke for seven or eight days, taking care to turn it every four days, that it may be equally smoked; cook it exactly as the round; it maybe I)