36 FRENCH COOKERY* and drain them ; put them into a mortar ; beat them ; wring out the juice through a coarse cloth; put the juice into a frying-pan or the cover of a pot; put it on hot cinders that it may only shake; and when it thickens put it through a gauze search; it is then ready for colouring soups, sauces, jellies, omelets, &c. Artichoke Bottoms. Cuts d' Artichauts Tour ms. Take a dozen of tender artichokes; be careful that they are not thready, which will be known by snapping a bit off the stalk: slip off the leaves in such a manner as to leave the bottom whole, with a few of the tenderest leaves on the top; then pare the arti- chokes nicely Avith a knife, cutting off the points of the leaves that remain; rub the artichokes with the half of a lemon, and throw them into fresh water, with the juice of one or two lemons ; put them into boiling water, and let a plate be put in to keep them down; let them boil; when the choke comes out easily, they are enough ; take it out, and throw them into fresh water; drain, and put them into a hlanc ; when they are enough, take them out; put them into a dish, and pour the hlanc over them through a gauze search ; let them be used for garnishing, either Avhole or in quarters. To make Cayenne Pepper. —— Poivre de Cayenne. Take half a pound of long pepper, let it be chosen thick-skinned, and of a fine red; dry it well in the shade ; separate and take off the stalks; put them into a mortar, and beat them with an iron pestle ; let care be taken that the mortar is covered well with a skin, as it is dangerous if it get into the eyes. Onions. Oignons Glacds. (See Bceuf, or Bouille Ordinaire.) Cucumbers. Concombres au Blanc. Let the points and ends of three cucumbers be taken off; if they are bitter, take others; peel them, and cut them in quarters; take out the seeds, and let them be cut in the form of oyster-shells, making them ecjual; blanch them in water with a little salt, and cook them in a blanc; when sufficiently done, drain them, and put them aside for use.