EDINBURGH; T. C. & E. C, JACK; and 34 HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W.C. r THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. LOWER LIMB. HUNTER’S CANAL—No. 2. In addition to the previous dissection, the sartorius has been divided, and its lower part removed, and the fascia which covers the femoral vessels has been removed also. Hunter’s canal is the name given to the tubular passage in which the femoral vessels pass in their course from the apex of Scarpa’s triangle to the opening in the adductor magnus. It lies nearly in the middle third of the thigh, and it is bounded externally by the vastus internus muscle, behind by the adductor longus and magnus, and it is covered by the sartorius. A strong band of fibrous tissue stretches across the canal under the sartorius. Within the canal are found the femoral vessels, in relation to one another as seen, the artery lying in front of the vein, and at the lower part rather to its inner side, and with them is the long saphenous nerve and the origin of the anastomotica magna artery. The long saphenous nerve lies on the outer side of the artery, but at the lower part it passes in front of the tendon of the adductor magnus, accompanied by a branch of the anastomotica magna branch of the femoral artery, and escapes from the canal in this way. The internal cutaneous nerve is seen crossing the artery in several branches. It is joined by a branch of the obturator nerve, which then runs on and is distributed to the wall of the femoral artery. When ligaturing the femoral artery here, the superficial structures are divided, the sartorius muscle pulled outwards, and the fascia under it divided. 1. Sartorius muscle divided. 2. Adductor longus muscle. 3. Vastus internus muscle. 4. Adductor magnus muscle. 5. Adductor gracilis muscle. 6. Semimembranosus muscle. 7. Aponeurotic roof, divided. The figures indicate— 8. Nerve to vastus internus. 9. Long saphenous nerve on femoral artery. 10. Internal cutaneous nerve. 11. Branch from obturator nerve. 12. Femoral vein. 13. Long saphenous nerve and branch of anastomotica magna artery.