8. Extensor brevis digitorum muscle. LOWER LIMB. DORSUM OF FOOT.—No. 2. 7. Peroneus brevis tendon. 1. Anterior annular ligament, upper portion. THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. 2. Anterior annular ligament, lower portion. The figures indicate— 5. Extensor longus hallucis tendon. 4. Extensor longus digitorum tendon. 12. External saphenous nerve. 9. Dorsalis pedis artery. 11. Anterior peroneal vessels. 6. Tibialis anticus tendon. LOWER LIMB-DORSUM OF FOOT. 10. Anterior tibial nerve, terminal branch. 3. Peroneus tertius muscle. EDINBURGH: T. C. & E. C. JACK: and 34 HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W.C. THE DEEP FASCIA HAS BEEN REMOVED, LEAVING THE TWO PORTIONS OF THE ANTERIOR ANNULAR LIGAMENT IN POSITION. The anterior annular ligament consists of two parts, an upper and a lower. The upper is a broad band which stretches across the front of the leg, above the ankle, and is attached externally to the fibula and internally to the tibia. The lower part is Y-shaped, and is attached externally to the front of the os calcis. It divides into two bands, which are attached, the upper to the internal malleolus, while the lower blends with the plantar fascia on the inner side of the foot. The tendons of the long extensor muscles are retained in position by these bands, and pass through channels in them, which are lined by synovial membrane. In the upper portion there is one such channel for the tendon of the tibialis anticus on the inner side, and one for the other extensor tendons on the outer. In the lower portion there are three separate channels, an inner for the tendon of the tibialis anticus, a middle one for the extensor longus hallucis, and an outer one for the extensor longus digitorum and peroneus tertius tendons. Vessels.—The anterior division of the peroneal artery is seen coming to the front of the ankle between the two bones of the leg, to take part in the anastomosis on the outer side of the ankle. The dorsalis pedis is seen lying on the dorsum of the foot between the tendons of the extensor longus hallucis and extensor longus digitorum muscles.