1. Anterior inferior tibio-fibular ligament. 8. Dorsal astragalo-scaphoid ligament. LIGAMENTS SEEN ON THE OUTER SIDE. LOWER LIMB. The figures indicate— ARTICULATIONS, ANKLE AND FOOT—No. 1. THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. 3. External ligament of ankle, middle band. 10 and 11. Superior calcaneo-cuboid ligament. LOWER LIMB ANKLE JOINT. No. EDINBURGH: T. C. & E, C. JACK; and 34 HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W.C The ligaments which connect the leg with the foot, and the different bones of the skeleton of the foot with one another are extremely numerous, and vary considerably in their comparative strength and importance. 1. Ankle-joint.—The anterior ligament was represented here by a strong band of fibrous tissue passing from the front of the tibia to the neck of the astragalus, and the remainder of the capsule in this aspect was very thin and indefinite. The external lateral ligament is represented by three bands, an anterior in two fasciculi, a middle, and a posterior (vide No. 3), of which the anterior passes to the neck of the astragalus and the middle to the outer surface of the os calcis. The different bands are attached above to the external malleolus. 2. Foot.—The astragalus is connected to the os calcis and to the scaphoid on this aspect by the interosseous ligament, a strong band whose margin is seen at the bottom of the sinus pedis, or tarsal pit, by the external astragalo-calcanean, and by a dorsal' astragalo-scaphoid band. Further forward is a ligament uniting the os calcis and cuboid bones on their dorsal and outer aspect, and in front, are the numerous bands, variable in their size, uniting the scaphoid and cuneiform bones, and metatarsals together (not defined). 2. External ligament of ankle, anterior band. 4. Outer edge of interosseous ligament. 5. Anterior annular ligament divided. 6. External astragalo-calcanean ligament. 7. Anterior ligament of ankle. 9. External calcaneo-scaphoid ligament. 12. External caleaneo-cuboid ligament. 13. Long plantar ligament. 14. Dorsal scapho-cuneiform ligament. 15. Peroneus longus tendon.