THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. LOWER LIMB. GLUTEAL REGION—No. 1. 1. Ischial tuberosity. The figures indicate— 9. Tendon of semimembranosus. 7. Quadratus femoris. 12. Internal pudic vessels and nerve, and nerve LOWER LIMB-GLUTEAL REGION. No. 4. Gluteus minimus. 11. Great sciatic nerve. EDINBURGH; T. C. & E. C. JACK; and 34 HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W.C. 2. Gluteus medius (divided). 13. Inferior hsemorrhoidal vessels and nerve. 6. Obturator internus and gemelli. THE SUPERFICIAL STRUCTURES HAVE BEEN REMOVED, AND THE GLUTEUS MAXIMUS TAKEN AWAY IN NEARLY ITS WHOLE EXTENT. THE GLUTEUS MEDIUS HAS ALSO BEEN REMOVED, AND THE ISCHIO-RECTAL FOSSA HAS BEEN OPENED UP FROM BEHIND. The gluteus maximus has an extensive origin from the rough surface on the ilium between the superior curved line and the crest, and from the sides and back of the lower two pieces of the sacrum and upper three pieces of the coccyx, as well as from the great sacro-sciatic ligament and the lumbar aponeurosis. It is inserted partly into the gluteal ridge of the femur, but chiefly into the fascia lata. The gluteus medius, arising from the dorsum of the ilium, is inserted into the outer aspect of the great trochanter. Under cover of these two muscles are the greater and lesser sciatic foramina, with the structures trans- mitted by them. Through the greater notch emerges the pyriformis muscle, which is a useful landmark, since the gluteal vessels and superior gluteal nerve lie above it, and several other structures below it. The great sciatic nerve, however, not infrequently (as here) emerges in two divisions, of which the upper, representing the peroneal or external popliteal nerve, comes through the pyriformis muscle, splitting it into two parts, while the lower, representing the tibial or internal popliteal nerve, emerges below it. The trunk of the nerve lies almost midway between the ischial tuberosity and the great trochanter, rather to the inner side. The great sciatic nerve rests upon the innominate bone, with the nerve to the quadratus femoris interven- ing, on the pyriformis and gemelli, the quadratus femoris and adductor magnus muscles. The gluteal artery divides almost at once into a superficial division, which supplies the gluteus maximus, and a deep division, which ramifies in two branches upon the ilium. The superior gluteal nerve accompanies the deep division of the artery, and supplies the gluteus medius and minimus and the tensor fasciae femoris muscles. The other deeply-seated structures are shown in another view. 3. Gluteus maximus (divided). 5. Pyriformis. 8. Tendon of biceps and semitendinosus. 10. Gluteal vessels. to obturator internus. 14. Superior gluteal nerve.