11. Internal popliteal nerve. Some muscular branches to 10. External popliteal nerve. LOWER LIMB. The figures indicate— 2. Semitendinosus (divided). THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. 3. Semimembranosus (divided). EDINBURGH: T. C. & E. C. JACK: and 34 HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W.C. LOWER LIMB-POPLITEAL SPACE. POPLITEAL SPACE—No. 4. THE UPPER PART OF THE GASTROCNEMIUS MUSCLE HAS BEEN REMOVED, IN ADDITION TO THE FORMER DISSECTION. The heads of the gastrocnemius are attached, the outer to the outer surface of the external condyle, and the inner above the internal condyle of the femur. Under cover of the upper part of the muscle lie the plantaris, soleus, and popliteus muscles, and the popliteal vessels and internal popliteal nerve, with several branches. The plantaris is attached to the back of the external condyle, and its short muscle belly is inserted into a long slender tendon. The semimembranosus is inserted mainly into a horizontal groove on the back of the internal tuberosity of the tibia, but a strong slip is seen passing upwards and outwards as part of the posterior ligament of the knee, and it is also inserted into the fascia covering the popliteus muscle. The popliteal artery rests successively upon the popliteal surface of the femur, the posterior ligament of the knee-joint, and the strong fascia covering the popliteus muscle. The inferior internal articular vessels are seen passing obliquely downwards and inwards along the upper border of the popliteus muscle accompanied by an articular branch from the internal popliteal nerve. The structures seen here are of the greatest importance in connection with swellings in the popliteal region, such as aneurism, neuroma, and enlarged bursae. 1. Biceps flexor cruris muscle. 4. Sartorius muscle. 5. Adductor gracilis. 6. Heads of gastrocnemius. 7. Soleus muscle. 8. Plantaris muscle. 9. Popliteus muscle. the gastrocnemius have been divided. 12. Popliteal vein, with the artery on its inner side. 13. Superior internal articular vessels. 14. Inferior internal articular vessels and nerve. 15. Head of fibula.