The figures indicate— 6. Tendon of tibialis posticus. 2. Tuberosity of scaphoid. 13. Posterior tibial vessels. THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. torum. LOWER LIMB. sole of the foot. 7. Tendon of flexor longus digi- 1. Internal malleolus. 12. Plantaris tendon. 3. Os calcis. the leg. ligament. 9. Abductor hallucis muscle. EDINBURGH: T. C. & E. C. JACK; and 34 HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W.C. 18. Internal saphenous nerve. 20. Internal plantar nerve. 8. Tendon of flexor longus hal- 15. Internal plantar vessels. 14. External plantar vessels. 11. Tibialis anticus tendon. 1. Portion of deep fascia between LOWER LIMB-INNER SIDE OF ANKLE. No. INNER SIDE OF ANKLE—No. 1. INTERNAL ANNULAR LIGAMENT AND THE STRUCTURES RELATED TO IT. The upper portion of the ligament has been removed to show the vessels, etc. under cover of it. A portion of the abductor hallucis muscle has also been taken away to show the structures as they pass into the The internal annular ligament is a strong band which passes from the internal malleolus to the inner side of the os calcis. Like the other annular ligaments, it is continuous with the adjacent portions of the deep fascia, and it is also strengthened by fibres from the fascia covering the deep layer of muscles of the leg. The internal calcanean vessels and nerves are seen coming through the ligament and are distributed to the tissues of the heel. Under cover of the ligament, and retained in position by it, are the tendons of the tibialis posticus, flexor longus digitorum, and flexor longus hallucis muscles, while the posterior tibial vessels and nerve lie between the latter two tendons. The tendons are invested by separate synovial sheaths. The nerve lies on the outer side of the artery, and the vessels and nerve divide at the lower border of the ligament into the internal and external plantar branches. The relations of the tendons in this region are of great importance in connection with the operation of tenotomy for club foot, and the vessels and nerves should be noticed with reference to Syme’s amputation of the foot. superficial and deep muscles of 5. Lower part of internal annular lucis. 10. Musculus accesorius. 16 and 17. Internal saphenous vein. 19. Posterior tibial nerve.