THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. EDINBURGH: T. C. & E. C. JACK: anp 34 HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W.C. LOWER LIMB. ARTICULATIONS. HIP JOINT—No. I. PELVIC AND HIP JOINTS, SEEN FROM BEHIND. I. The ligaments connecting the sacrum and the innominate bone on this aspect are seen to be as follows:— The oblique ligament is attached above to the posterior superior spine of the ilium and below to the lateral tubercle of the third piece of the sacrum. The great or posterior sacro-sciatic ligament is attached above to the posterior spines of the ilium, and to the outer borders and posterior surfaces of the lower three pieces of the sacrum and upper two pieces of the coccyx. Thence the fibres pass to be attached below to the inner border of the ischial tuberosity, and also pass forwards to the ramus of the ischium, where they form the falciform orocess. Some of the fibres are continued into the tendon of origin of the biceps muscle. The small or anterior sacro-sciatic ligament springs by a wide attachment from the side of the lower part of the sacrum and from the coccyx. The ligament rapidly narrows, and is inserted into the spine of the ischium, its pelvic surface is intimately connected with the coccygeus muscle, and muscle fibres are often present in it. These two ligaments limit the greater and lesser sacro-sciatic foramina. II. In the hip-joint, the ischio femoral band is seen, the fibres of which, in the position of extension of this limb, wind round the back of the femur in a zonular manner. The partial extent to which the posterior aspect of the neck of the femur is covered by the capsular ligament should be noticed. In front, the reflected tendon of the rectus femoris is seen joining the capsule. The figures indicate:— 1. Posterior superior spine of the ilium. 2. Tubercle on crest of ilium. 3. Back part of the ischial tuberosity. 4. Great trochanter. .. Oblique ligament. 6. Great sacro-sciatic ligament. 7. Small sacro-sciatic ligament. 8. Ischio-femoral band of capsule of the hip-joint. 9. Lower limit of capsule on the back of the neck of the femur. 10. Reflected tendon of the rectus femoris muscle.