LOWER LIMB. SOLE OF FOOT-No. 2. THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. The figures indicate— 4. Abductor hallucis. 5. Outermost lumbrical. LOWER LIMB SOLE OF FOOT. No. 10. External plantar digital nerve. etc. 2. Abductor minimi digiti. 9. Outer branch of internal plantar nerve. EDINBURGH: T. C. & E. C. JACK; and 34 HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W.C. Nerves and 7. External plantar nerve and artery, FIRST LAYER. THE DEEP FASCIA HAS BEEN REFLECTED, TO EXPOSE THE FIRST LAYER OF MUSCLES. The muscles and tendons in the sole are arranged in four layers, of which this is the first or most superficial. The abductor hallucis muscle, on the inner side, takes origin from the inner tubercle of the os calcis, and from the adjacent internal annular ligament, plantar fascia, and intermuscular septum, and is inserted into the base of the first phalanx of the great toe, where fibres of the flexor brevis hallucis are blended with its tendon. The flexor brevis digitorum arises from the inner tubercle of the os calcis, and from the plantar fascia and the intermuscular septa on either side, and ends in four tendons which pass to the four outer toes, and which are inserted in the same manner as the tendons of the flexor sublimis digitorum in the upper limb, to which it corresponds. The abductor minimi digiti arises from both of the inferior tubercles of the os calcis, under cover of the flexor brevis digitorum, and from the adjacent bands of fascia, and is inserted into the outer aspect of the base of the proximal phalanx of the little toe. A portion of the muscle is frequently inserted into the base of the fifth metatarsal, forming the abductor ossis metatarsi quinti digiti. The arch formed by the internal plantar nerve on the surface of the flexor brevis should be noted, but the blood vessels and nerves are more fully exposed in No. 3. The short muscles play a part in supporting the arch of the foot, and the so-called abductor muscles have probably no action such as their name would indicate. Muscles, 1. Tuberosity of os calcis. 3. Flexor brevis digitorum. 6. Flexor longus hallucis tendon. blood vessels. 8. Inner digital branch of internal plantar nerve.