THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. ARTICULATIONS, ANKLE AND FOOT—No. 2. The figures indicate— 7. Termination of long plantar ligament. LOWER LIMB. 1. Internal lateral ligament of ankle. LIGAMENTS SEEN ON THE INNER SIDE. EDINBURGH: T. C. & E. G. JACK; and 34 HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W.C. 4. Inferior calcaneo-scaphoid ligament. 8. Peroneus longus tendon. 2. Posterior astragalo-calcanean ligament. LOWER LIMB ANKLE JOINT. No. 11. Scapho-cuneiform articulation. 5. Short plantar ligament. 10. Tibialis posticus tendon. 1. Ankle.—The internal lateral ligament is a strong triangular band which radiates from the under part of the internal malleolus, and is attached to the scaphoid bone in front, and then to the astragalus, sustentaculum tali of the os calcis, and to the astragalus again at the back. 2. Foot.—Several important bands are seen bn this aspect. Below the internal lateral ligament is the inferior calcaneo-scaphoid or spring ligament, so called from its action in maintaining the antero-posterior arch of the foot, by supporting the head of the astragalus. The ligament is covered in part by the tendon of the tibialis posterior muscle,—a bursa intervening,—and it is attached behind and below to the front of the sustentaculum tali, and its fibres pass in spiral fashion to the under and inner parts of the scaphoid bone. On the under aspect of the foot are seen the long and short plantar ligaments. The former is attached to the under surface of the os calcis in front of the tuberosities, and passes forwards to be attached to the under surface of the cuboid, from which fibres are continued forwards to be attached to the bases of the three middle metatarsal bones. The short plantar ligament lies at a deeper level, and passes from the under surface of the os calcis near the front to the cuboid bone behind the ridge. It is partly covered by the long plantar ligament, but a portion can be seen to the inner side of that band. 3. Groove for tibialis posticus tendon. 6. Long plantar ligament. 9. Slips from tibialis posticus tendon.