The figures indicate— 1. Sartorius muscle. 10. Genito-crural nerve lying on psoas muscle. pectineus muscles. SCARPA’S TRIANGLE.—No. 2. 2. Adductor longus muscle. 3. Adductor gracilis muscle. 8. Tensor fasciae femoris muscle. 9. Attachments of Poupart’s ligament. THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. LOWER LIMB. 6. Iliacus muscle. 5. Rectus femoris muscle. EDINBURGH: T. C. & E. C. JACK; and 34 HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W.C. 4. Pectineus muscle. 7. Psoas muscle. 14. Profunda femoris artery. 13. Femoral vessels. 12. Internal circumflex artery. LOWER LIMB-SCARPA’S TRIANGLE. No. 11. Anterior crural nerve. THE FEMORAL VESSELS AND THEIR BRANCHES HAVE BEEN DIVIDED, AND POUPART’S LIGAMENT HAS BEEN REMOVED. The floor of Scarpa’s triangle is formed of two planes inclined to one another, with a deep groove at their junction. The outer plane is formed by the iliacus and psoas muscles covered by the iliac fascia, and the inner by the pectineus and adductor longus muscles covered by the pubic fascia. The space is therefore prismatic in form, the apex of the prism being formed by the junction of these two planes. The anterior crural nerve lies in the interval between the psoas and iliacus muscles, while the femoral vessels lie on the psoas and pectineus. The internal circumflex vessels escape from the triangle by passing between the psoas and The pectineus is a quadrilateral sheet of muscle which arises from the ilio-pectineal line between the spine of the pubis and the ilio-pectineal eminence, from the bone in front of this line, and from the deep surface of the pubic fascia, close to its attachment to the ilio-pectineal line. When the muscles are small it does not come into contact with the adductor longus, and a small portion of the adductor brevis can then be seen from the front. The nerve supply to the pectineus is seen to be a small branch from the anterior crural nerve which passes inwards behind the femoral vessels. The root of the penis divided is seen to the right. C'j '