The figures indicate— inner margin of the adductor longus muscles. LOWER LIMB. SCARPA’S TRIANGLE—No. 1. THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. 12. Ilio-tibial band. 4. Deep external pudic vessels. 9. Sartorius muscle. 1. Femoral artery. LOWER LIMB-SCARPA’S TRIANGLE. No. artery, and branches of an- 7. Iliacus muscle. 6. Poupart’s ligament. terior crural nerve. 3. Bifurcation of the femoral EDINBURGH: T. C. & E. C. JACK; and 34 HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W.C. 10. Adductor longus muscle. 8. Pectineus muscle. 5. Cutaneous branches from an- 11. Rectus femoris muscle. terior crural nerve. 2. Femoral vein. THE SKIN, LAYERS OF FASCIA, CUTANEOUS NERVES A.ND VESSELS, ETC., WHICH FORM THE ROOF OF THE SPACE, HAVE BEEN REMOVED, TO SHOW THE BOUNDARIES AND CONTENTS OF THE TRIANGLE. Scarpa’s triangle is a triangular space situated in the upper part of the front of the thigh. It is bounded above by Poupart’s ligament, externally by the sartorius, and internally by the Poupart’s ligament is a strong fibrous band extending from the anterior superior spine of the ilium to the spine of the pubis. At the inner end some fibres pass backwards and outwards and gain an attachment to the ilio-pectineal line. This portion is known as Gimbernat’s ligament. The sartorius arises from the anterior superior spine of the ilium, and from the notch below it, and consists of parallel fleshy fibres which form a long, strap-like muscle, which passes obliquely across the front of the thigh, and the adductor longus takes origin by a rounded tendon from the front of the pubis, in the angle between the crest and symphisis, from which the fleshy fibres diverge in a fan-shaped manner, to an insertion into the inner lip of the linea aspera. Within the space are found the femoral artery and vein and the anterior crural nerve, with branches derived from them, the termination of the long saphenous vein, the crural branch of the genito-crural nerve, and some deep femoral lymphatic glands, together with areolar and fatty tissue. On the inner side of the femoral vein is the femoral or crural ring, through which a femoral hernia may occur. It is a narrow space bounded by Poupart’s ligament in front, by the fascia of the pectineus muscle and the pubic bone behind, by Gimbernat’s ligament internally, and by the femoral vein externally, from which it is separated by a thin septum. It is filled by some fatty tissue and a lymphatic gland. The roof of Scarpa’s triangle is seen in the views of the Inguinal Region (Section 2).