THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. LOWER LIMB. GLUTEAL REGION—No. la. THE SUPERFICIAL STRUCTURES HAVE BEEN REMOVED TO SHOW THE GLUTEUS MAXIMUS AND THE CUTANEOUS NERVES. The gluteal region extends from the crest of the ilium above to the gluteal fold below, and from the middle line outwards as far as to the great trochanter of the femur. The cutaneous nerves in this region are as follows :—- (1) Crossing the crest of the ilium near the outer margin of the erector spinse muscle are three branches from the posterior primary divisions of three lumbar nerves. The iliac branches of the ilio-hypogastric and last dorsal nerves cross the iliac crest further forwards and are not shown. (2) Piercing the gluteus maximus are some small branches from the posterior primary divisions of the upper sacral nerves, usually three in number. (3) Winding round the lower margin of the gluteus maximus are a perforating cutaneous nerve from the anterior primary divisions from the second and third sacral nerves, and some branches from the small sciatic nerve. The latter are external to the ischial tuberosity, the former internal. (4) On the outer side, some terminal twigs from the external cutaneous nerve of the thigh may be found near the great trochanter. The gluteus maximus is a large muscle with a wide origin (see No. 1). It is quadrilateral in outline. Above and to its outer side lie the gluteal fascia covering the gluteus medius muscle. This fascia encloses the gluteus maximus. Below the lower margin lie the fat, etc. of the ischio-rectal fossa, and, further out, the small sciatic nerve and the upper part of the hamstring muscles. It will be noticed that the lower border of the muscle is oblique in direction, and therefore does not correspond to the gluteal fold, which is transversely directed, and crosses the lower border of the muscle. Bony points. 1. Posterior superior iliac spine. 2. Sacral cornua. 3. Great trochanter. Muscles, etc. 4. Semitendinosus and biceps. EDINBURGH - T. f! * The figures indicate— Muscles, etc. 5. Semimembranosus. 6. Adductor magnus. 7. Ischio-rectal fossa. Nerves. 8. Lumbar branches. 9. Sacral branches. L XLALAGK t anti 34 HENRIETTA S' Nerves. 10. Perforating cutaneous. 11. Branches of small sciatic. 12. Long pudendal. 13. Small sciatic. SET. LONDON. W.C.