THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. LOWER LIMB. LOWER LIMB BACK OF LEG. No. 4. Flexor longus hallucis. 8. Posterior tibial nerve. The figures indicate— EDINBURGH : T. C. & E. C. JACK ; and 34 HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W.C. BACK OF LEG—No. 3. THE FLEXOR LONGUS HALLUCIS MUSCLE HAS BEEN REMOVED, TO SHOW THE PERONEAL VESSELS, ETC. The tibialis posticus muscle takes origin from both tibia and fibula, from the fascia which covers it, and from the interosseous membrane. The surfaces of the two bones to which it is attached lie beside the interosseous ridge, and extend on each side laterally as far as to the origin of the flexor longus digitorum on the tibia, and to that of the flexor longus hallucis on the fibula. The relations of its tendon are seen in another view (Inner Side of Ankle, No. 1). The posterior tibial artery begins at the loAver border of the popliteus muscle, and is the larger of the two terminal branches of the popliteal artery. It passes downwards on the surface of the flexor longus digitorum and tibialis posticus muscles, and then it comes to lie on the back of the tibia and of the ankle-joint, as these two muscles pass to its inner side. It is covered above by the gastrocnemius and soleus, but in the lower part it lies immediately below the deep fascia, and it is accompanied by the posterior tibial nerve, which is the direct continuation of the internal popliteal nerve. The nerve is, throughout, superficial to the artery, and lies to the inner side above, but soon crosses and lies on the outer side for nearly its whole length. The artery gives off high up a large peroneal branch, which runs outwards and downwards in the substance of the flexor longus hallucis muscle, and it also gives off muscular and cutaneous branches and a nutrient artery to the tibia, and it communicates with the peroneal artery in the lower part of the leg by a transverse communicating branch. A calcanean branch is given off just above the ankle joint. The peroneal artery gives off muscular branches, and a nutrient artery to the fibula. Each of these large vessels is accompanied by two vense comites, which are closely connected to the artery, are of large size, and communicate freely across the intervening artery by cross branches. The posterior tibial nerve supplies all three deep muscles, and gives an articular branch to the ankle joint The terminal branches of the vessels and nerves, and their further relations, are seen in the views of the ankle. Muscles. 1. Soleus. Muscles. 5. Peroneus longus. Vessels, etc. 9. Communicating artery. 2. Flexor longus digitorum. Vessels, etc. 6. Posterior tibial vessels. 10. Division of peroneal 3. Tibialis posticus. 7. Peroneal vessels. artery.