14. Tendon of popliteus. THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. II. The semilunar cartilages deepen the hollow for receiving the condyle of the femur on each side. ARTICULATIONS, KNEE JOINT—No. 5. LOWER LIMB. 1. Ligamentum patellse. The figures indicate— 7. Posterior crucial ligament. 19. Semimembranosus tendon. 5. Anterior end of external semi- 11. Internal popliteal nerve. LOWER LIMB KNEE JOINT. No. 18. Semitendinosus tendon. lunar cartilage. EDINBURGH: T. C. & E. C. JACK; and 34 HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W.C. 10. Popliteal vein. HEAD OF TIBIA, WITH STRUCTURES IN POSITION. A section has been made through the joint, and the lower end of the femur removed by dividing the crucial ligaments. I. Behind the ligamentum patellae is a pad of fat, covered by synovial membrane, from which a slender process passes to the intercondylar notch, the ligamentum mucosum. From, its margin two folds pass out- wards on each side, the ligamenta alaria. This fold covers the transverse ligament, which joins together the anterior ends of the semilunar cartilages. They are narrow curved strips of fibro-cartilage, covered with synovial membrane on each side. The outer cartilage is nearly circular, while the inner is more semicircular in outline. They are firmly attached at each end to the head of the tibia, and also along the convex margin by the coronary ligaments, which pass to the margin of the head of that bone. The margin of the internal cartilage is attached to the flat internal lateral ligament, but the external cartilage is separated from the external lateral ligament by the tendon of the popliteus muscle. III. Attached to the head of the tibia in the mesial plane, from before backwards, lie—(1) the anterior end of the internal semilunar cartilage ; (2) the anterior crucial ligament; (3) anterior end of the external semi- lunar cartilage; (4) posterior end of the same cartilage ; (5) posterior horn of internal semilunar; (6) posterior crucial ligament. IY. The relation of the popliteal vessels to the posterior ligament of the joint should be noticed—the artery lying nearest to the ligament, but separated from it by some fatty tissue. 2. Retropatellar pad of fat. 3. Ligamentum mucosum. 4. Anterior end of internal semi- lunar cartilage. 6. Anterior crucial ligament. 8. Posterior ligament of the knee- joint. 9. Popliteal artery. 12. Tendon of biceps. 13. External lateral ligament. 15. Internal lateral ligament 16. Sartorius tendon. 17. Gracilis tendon.