LOWER LIMB. The figures indicate— THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. FRONT OF LEG—No. 1. 3. Peroneus brevis. 15. External saphenous nerve and 4. Extensor longus digitorum. 13. Anterior peroneal vessels. 6. Peroneus tertius. EDINBURGH: T. C. & E. O. .TACK : and 34 HENRIETTA STREET. LONDON. W.CL 5. Tibialis anticus. 7. Extensor brevis digitorum. 11. Anterior peroneal septum. LOWER LIMB-FRONT OF LEG. NO. 14. Dorsalis pedis vessels. Nerves and vessels—12. Musculo-cutaneous nerve. THE PERONEAL AND EXTENSOR MUSCLES HAVE BEEN EXPOSED BY REMOVAL OF THE DEEP FASCIA. On the outer side of the leg lies the peroneal group of muscles, consisting of the peroneous longus and peroneus brevis. These are separated by intermuscular septa from the posterior and anterior sets of muscles. The anterior set consists of the tibialis anticus and extensor longus digitorum and peroneus tertius muscles, which lie superficially, and of the extensor longus hallucis which lies deeply. Peroneal muscles.—The peroneus longus arises from the head and upper two-thirds of the peroneal surface of the fibula, and the peroneus brevis from the lower part of that bone, and from the septa. The tendon of the peroneus longus at the ankle lies behind and external to that of the peroneus brevis, and the latter tendon passes forwards to be inserted into the base of the fifth metatarsal, while the peroneus longus tendon passes into the sole of the foot. The peroneus tertius tendon is inserted into the upper aspect of the base of the fifth metatarsal. The musculo cutaneous nerve becomes cutaneous in the interval between the peroneal and extensor muscles, piercing the deep fascia in the lower third of the leg. The interval between the extensor longus digitorum and tibialis anticus muscles is indistinct in the upper part, but the position of the anterior peroneal intermuscular septum is indicated on the surface by a linear depression, whitish in colour. The extensor longus digitorum and peroneus tertius muscles have practically one muscle belly, from which the tendon of peroneus tertius detaches itself just above the ankle joint. The belly of the extensor brevis digitorum muscle, on the dorsum of the foot, arises from and conceals the front of the os calcis. It forms a distinct prominence which can be recognised beneath the skin, and which is sometimes mistaken for a pathological swelling. Muscles and tendons—1. Soleus. 2. Peroneus longus. 8. Extensor longus hallucis. Muscles and tendons— 9. Peroneus brevis. Ligaments, etc.—10. Anterior annular ligament. vein. g M O J