10. Trunk of anterior crural nerve. 15. Muscular branch of profunda 3. Pectineus muscle. 11. Branches of anterior crural nerve, LOWER LIMB. 4. Adductor longus muscle. The figures indicate— and level of bifurcation of com- 1. Sartorius muscle, divided. DEEP DISSECTION OF THIGH—No. 1. 16. Branches of anterior division of muscle. THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY 2 Iliacus muscle. femoris to adductor magnus mon femoral artery. to vastus internus muscle. LOWER LIMB-DEEP DISSECTION 7. Adductor brevis muscle. 13. Nerve to vastus externus. 12. Long saphenous nerve and nerve 9. Adductor magnus muscle. EDINBURGH : T. C. & E. C. JACK; and 34 HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W.C. THIGH. No. I. obturator nerve. 8. Adductor gracilis muscle. 6. Tensor fasciae femoris muscle. 19. Poupart’s ligament. 5. Rectus femoris muscle 17. Internal cutaneous nerve. 14. External circumflex artery. 18. Femoral vein. THE SUPERFICIAL STRUCTURES HAVE BEEN REMOVED, AND THE ADDUCTOR LONGUS, SARTORIUS AND RECTUS FEMORIS MUSCLES HAVE BEEN DIVIDED NEAR THEIR ORIGIN AND REMOVED. The anterior crural nerve arises within the abdomen from the posterior branches of the anterior primary divisions of the 2nd, 3rd and 4th lumbar nerves. It enters the thigh by passing behind Poupart’s ligament in the interval between the iliacus and psoas muscles, and rapidly breaks up into branches. These are divided into a superficial and a deep set, and the external circumflex artery passes out between them. The superficial set consists of (1) muscular branches to the sartorius and pectineus muscles, the former passing directly to the muscle, and the latter passing inwards behind the femoral vessels, and (2) of the middle and internal cutaneous nerves. The latter nerve is seen passing inwards in front of the femoral artery in two branches. From the deep division, muscular branches are given to all the parts of the quadriceps extensor muscle, and a cutaneous branch, the long saphenous nerve, is seen passing downwards in company with the femoral artery, and entering Hunter’s canal. An articular branch is usually given to the hip joint, and some of the muscular branches pass to the knee. The external circumflex artery is seen passing outwards from the profunda femoris artery under the sartorius and rectus femoris muscles. On the inner side of the thigh, behind the adductor longus, muscular branches from the pro- funda femoris artery are found, with muscular branches from the anterior division of the obturator nerve, supplying the adductors longus, brevis and gracilis.