LOWER LIMB. THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. With this view Scarpa’s triangle No 2. should be compared. SURFACE ANATOMY—No. 1. Vessels.—The figure 7 is placed on the femoral artery near the apex of Scarpa’s triangle. The artery The figures indicate— LOWER LIMB SURFACE ANATOMY. No. EDINBURGH: T. C. & E. 0. JACK; and 34 HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W.C. FRONT OF THIGH. 1. Bony points.—The anterior superior spine of the ilium lies at the bottom of a slight depression, and marks the junction between the abdominal wall and the thigh. The crest of the ilium passes upwards and outwards from it, forming a sinuous depressed line, and Poupart’s ligament passes down- wards and inwards. These lines form the upper limit of the thigh and the lower limb of the abdomen. The great trochanter also lies in a depressed area in the outer side of the thigh—the figure 8 is placed in front of it, at the level of its upper border, and this level corresponds to the centre of the head of the femur. 2. Muscles.—The sartorius runs downwards and inwards from the anterior superior spine, and is a valuable landmark. To its inner side is the depressed area corresponding to Scarpa’s triangle, and to its outer side is a hollow, between the sartorius and the rectus femoris muscles. The lower part of the tensor fasciae femoris forms a prominence outside this and rather lower down, and the rectus femoris becomes evident in the surface below this point, in the centre of the thigh, and to its outer side is the vastus externus still lower down. The adductor muscles in the inner side cannot be isolated from one another on the surface. higher up lies midway between the anterior superior iliac spine and the pubic symphisis, and passes behind 7 in a line which, continued downwards, goes to the adductor tubercle of the femur. 1. Anterior superior spine. 2. Depression between sartorius and tensor fascise femoris. 3. Sartorius. 4. Rectus femoris. 5. Tensor fascia femoris, lower part. 6. Vastus externus. 7. On femoral artery. 8. Level of great trochanter (upper margin) and pf head of femur.