THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. 8. External saphenous nerve. 1. Anterior annular ligament, upper band. LOWER LIMB. DORSUM OF FOOT—No. 1. The figures indicate— 13. Base of fifth metatarsal bone. EDINBURGH: T. C. & E. C. JACK; and 34 HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W.C, 5. Peroneus brevis tendon. LOWER LIMB-DORSUM OF FOOT. NO. 11. External saphenous vein. 12. External malleolus. 6. Extensor proprius hallucis tendon. 4. Tibialis anticus tendon. THE SUPERFICIAL STRUCTURES ARE EXPOSED, LYING ON THE DEEP FASCIA. • 1. Cutaneous nerves.—The cutaneous part of the musculo-cutaneous nerve pierces the deep fascia in the lower third of the leg, and divides into two portions, inner and outer. The outer is here very small, and, as often occurs, its place is largely taken by a large branch from the external saphenous nerve which supplies the outer two and a half toes. The inner division supplies the inner side of the great toe, and the adjacent sides of the second and third toes, and communicates with the internal saphenous nerve on the inner side of the foot, and with a branch of the anterior tibial nerve which appears in the interval between the first and second toes, and supplies their adjacent sides. The external saphenous nerve®passes below the external malleolus, and extends along the outer side of the foot and little toe. The internal saphenous nerve is much smaller, and passes in front of the internal malleolus to the middle of the inner side of the foot. 2. Superficial veins.—At the base of the toes is a venous arch which receives digital tributaries, and in this case gives origin on the inner side to the internal saphenous vein, and usually, but not here, on the outer side to the external saphenous vein. These veins pass up the leg in company with the nerves which bear the same names. 3. Deep fascia.—The deep fascia forms a strong covering for the muscles, etc., of the lower part of the leg, and is specially thickened in places to form the anterior annular ligament (see No. 2). 2 Anterior annular ligament, lower band. 3. Extensor communis digitorum tendon. 7. Musculo-cutaneous nerve. 9. Branch of anterior tibial nerve. 10. Venous arch on dorsum of foot.