THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. ABDOMEN. PELVIS—No. 9. The figures indicate— EDINBURGH: T. C. & E. <J. JACK; and 34 HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W.C. 8. Pyriformis muscle. 3. Seminal vesicle. 9. Second sacral nerve. 6. Levator ani muscle. 1. Peritoneum. 2. Superior hemorrhoidal vessels. 10. Upper flexure of rectum. 4. Lower flexure of rectum. 11. Ischio-rectal fossa. 7. Sphincter ani externus. 5. Rectal fascia. MALE PELVIS. No. RECTUM VIEWED FROM BEHIND. The sacrum has been sawn across through the middle of its third piece, and the lower part removed, with the coccyx, after dividing the sacro-sciatic ligaments. A portion of the levator ani muscle has been removed, and the fat and lymphatic glands, etc., behind the rectum taken away. The sheath of the left seminal vesicle has been opened. The rectum begins where the mesentery of the pelvic colon ends, usually at the third piece of the sacrum. It passes along the hollow of the sacrum apd coccyx forwards as far as to the back of the prostate, and then alters its direction and passes backwards as the anal canal. In its course it presents some distinct flexures, of which two are seen in this view. The pelvic peritoneum invests it for some distance on either side and in front, and the two fossae or pockets on either side, the para-rectal fossae, are well seen. Immediately below the level of the peritoneum the bases of the seminal vesicles project backwards, and are in close contact with the sides of the rectum. Their relationship to the apex of the ischio-rectal fossa should be noticed. The dilated terminal portion of the rectum is known as the rectal ampulla. The longitudinal muscular fibres form a strong band on this aspect and on the front of the rectum. Eaeh band is made up of separate fasciculi between which the blood vessels, which are very numerous, enter and leave the wall. Pelvic fascia.—The fascia upon the pelvic aspect of the levator ani and coccygeus muscles is very strong in this region, and helps to support the rectum, forming a tubular sheath for the intestine where it passes through the pelvic diaphragm. This is termed the rectal fascia. The fascia further forward encloses the seminal vesicles, forming a sheath for them, and in this part is called the recto-vesical fascia.