18 sheath, and he will find that it ivill easily peel off. By getting, attd keeping withifi the sheath, the dissector will clean things eMcieiitly, neatly, and quickly. The only necessary precaution is to keep the knife from the side of the "long organ," from which any important branch is known to be given off. Mtich the same thing may be said of muscles. We do not generally speak of the sheath of a muscle. A muscle is surrounded, nevertheless, by a closely fitting covering of connective tissue, or fascia. If the dissector knows how to set about his work, he can peel this covering off with the greatest ease,* thoroughly baring the contractile fibres. No more important advice can be given to the dissector than that of thoroughly cleaning all muscles as soon as they present in the course of dissection. All muscles should be cleaned from origin to insertion, and not in front only, but all round, except, of course, Avhere their nerve, or a large arter}-, enters their substance. Nothing can do more to further good dissections than the habit of cleaning all muscles early and well. Nothing can hamper the dissector more than the neglect of this part of his work. This leads us on to 3. 3. When an artery, vein, or nerve is to be sought in an intermuscular space, this space should first be opened up as tvidely as possible, by dissecting close to, ajid carefully cleaning, the muscles themselves. This preliminary part of the work will bring the dissector upon the " long organs " which it is desired to trace out to the greatest advantage. Opportunities for the useful application of this rule are to be found everywhere. It is a rule of the very widest application. Where an intermuscular space can be opened both from the front and from the back, it is well to delay completing the dissection till the space can be so opened: e.g., dissection of the dorsalis scapulas artery and circumflex vessels & nerve in the triangular & quadrilateral spaces at tlie back of the shoulder; of the anterior tibial artery as it pierces the upper part, and of the anterior peroneal artery as it pierces the lower part, of the interosseous membrane of the leg; of the radial artery as it passes from the dorsum to the palm of the hand, first between the two heads of the first dorsal interosseous muscle or * Except as regards the cutaneous surface of a very few muscles, such as deltoid, gluteus maximus, upper part of the trapezius, the first layer of muscles of the sole of the foot.