24 Find, beneath the platysma, the external jugular vein, and the superficial cervical and great auricular nerves; also the small occipital nerve, which latter lies much farther back than is generally supposed. The external jugular veiu should be made out first, as it crosses the superficial cervical nerve, and is tiierefore a guide to the latter (see also note, p. 2G). If not immediately visible through the fibres of the platysma, blood may often be driven up into it by pressing the finger upwards «& inwards from the middle of the clavicle. The great auricular nerve will generally be found without diflScnlty where it passes up on the sterno-mastoid towards the lobule of the ear. The fascia over the upper part of the sterno-mastoid is extremely dense, and opposes a considerable obstacle to the search for the small occipital nerve beneath the skin. The nerve may, however, be found at its origin beneuth the sterno- mastoid and underneath the spinal accessory nerve. It arises in common with the great auricular & superficial cervical nerves (a fact not generally stated), and, above these, from the first cervical nerve. As the origin of the small occipital lies beneath the spinal accessory nerve, this latter nerve should be found first and lifted up ; otherwise it may easily be divided. As soon as the small occipital nerve is found at its origin, it can of course be traced without difficulty to the back of the head. "With a view to retaining them in position in the later stages of the dissection, the external jugular vein and the great auricular nerve should be left ad/iere?it by a strip of fascia to the front of the exteriial ear. Make out the superficial descending branches of cervical plexus,* and the spinal accessory nerve. The anterior edge of the trapezius should now be carefully cleaned along its whole length, both on its upper & under • If the dissector is more than usually painstaking, there is a possibility, while he is tracing up the superficial cervical and i^hrenic nerves to their origins, of his dividing the origins of the communicans noni. This is less likely to happen if the sterno-mastoid is well lifted up or reflected, and the two triangles are dissected together. It will be noticed, as stated in a note further on, that the common origin of the above nerves may be taken advantage of for findiug the ansa hypoglossi, should it otherwise not easily be made out.