92 (5.) Tho innermost tendon of the extensor brevia crosses in a direction forwards & inwards both the dorsalis pedis artery itself, and the internal terminal branch of the anterior tibial nerve. We have therefore here a series of five successive strata, of which each one interferes with the dissection of those which are subjacent to it. The average dissector will feel a strong inclinaticm to sacrifice the more superficial structures. One can scarcely object to his sacrificing the venous arch when once he has dissected it; one would not regret very much either the sacrifice of the terminal filaments of the internal & external saphenous nerves. But the branches of the musculo-cutaneous nerve and all the deeper structures should be honestly got out and preserved. The dissection would be much damaged for future study if this requirement were neglected. But if this is to be realised, no scamped work is admissible ; the several traves of each stratum must be raised from end to end, in order that the dissector may get at the stratum beneath. First, the branches of the musculo-cutaneous nerve must be traced at least as far as the middle of the second phalanges; then the several tendons of the extensores longns* & brevis must be freed, and the body of the latter muscle must be cleaned and raised. Then only can the dissector get at the principal artery of the region, and its accompanying nerve. The parts may be got out in the following order:ѥ Musculo-cutaneous nerve piercing deep fascia at junction of middle & lower thirds of outer side of leg. Trace as far as middle of secojid phalattges. External saphenous vein and nerve behind the external malleolus, and on the other side of the foot. It will facilitate this, and the subsequent stages of the dissection of the limb, to seek out now the communicantes tibialis and fibularis. The commuuicaus tibialis will be found between the two heads of the gastrocnemius, beneath the external saphenous vein, or it may be traced from the internal popliteal nerve at the lower part of the popliteal space. The communicans fibularis, smaller & more variable, had better be traced from the external popliteal nerve as it * The division of the anterior annular ligament greatly facilitates the lifting up of the long extensor tendons, and all the subsequent stages of the dissection.