surfaces. This is au essential preparation for the second stage of the dissection. Secotid stage.—Trace out the transversalis colli & supra- scapular arteries, removing the corresponding veins; clean tlie phrenic nerve in front of the scalenus anticus. These and the following structures lie in a considerable amount of loose adipose tissue, in the midst of which the arteries should first be felt for with the finger ; the supra-scapular artery runs deejoly behind the clavicle.* * It may be here the right place to remark that it is essential to anything like a good dissection of the triangles of the neck that, sooner or later, the stcriio- mastoid muscle be thoroughly separated from all subjacent structures from sternum and clavicle, below, to mastoid process & superior curved line of occipital, above, and cleaned on its under surface. In the large print it is contemplated that this dissecting up of the sterno-mastoid and cleaning of its under surface shall be done piecemeal as those parts of the several structures are got out. which rim underneath it in a portion of their course. If the dissector is well up to his work, it will be good policy for him to consider this dissecting up of the sterno-mastoid and cleaning of its under surface as a kind of preliminary operation, and to undertake the same at a mucli earlier period than is above indicated—as soon, in fact, as he has made sure of the spinal accessory nerve in the posterior triangle of the neck. The deep structures of the neck lie in very loose and soft connective tissue, and it is surprising to the inexperienced with what ease they can be turned out of their bed, when once they are thoroughly got at by the above preliminary dissection of the sterno-mastoid. Even more than this can be done. The sternal & clavicular origins of the sterno- mastoid can be detached, with the corresponding bone, with a Hey's saw and chisel, and the muscle temporarily reflected; when the dissection is completed, the muscle to be replaced, and its bony origins wired down. In dissecting up the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid, the dissector will of course be careful, towards the upper part of the muscle, of the deep portion of the spinal accessory nerve. If this nerve be not seen at once, it may be looked for as it crosses the prominent transverse process of the atlas, and emerges from beneath the occipital artery and tlie posterior belly of the digastric & stylo-hyoid muscles. Towards the middle of the sterno-mastoid, the dissector will be careful of the sterno-mastoid or superficial descending branch of the superior thyroid artery, which should be divided, however, after it has been seen, as it stands much in the way of the deeper dissection.