47 and thus to show the origin of the nerve from the ophthalmic, is first to dissect the Gasserian ganglion, and then to trace the ophthalmic nerve forwards in the outer wall of the cavernous sinus. Here the ophthalmic nerve lies, it is true, in the dense fibrous tissue of the outer wall of the cavernous sinus, but, as it is a pretty large nerve, it is not very difficult to clean. The trunk and its lachrymal branch being now traced one towards the other^ the posterior part of the branch, and the point at which it leaves the trunk, will be made out with relative ease.* 3. grasserian granglion, with which should be taken the Intra-cranial Portion of the Ophthalmic, and Superior * It will be seen that it is a physical difficulty—the same in both cases— ■which presents itself in the case of the fourth and ophthalmic nerves. When a nerve (or filament of any kind) has to be dissected from out of tissue sufficiently dense to require division with the knife, it must necessarily be tensed in order that it may run in something like a straight line; it would otherwise be exposed to be divided by the incisions intended to free it. The fourth nerve is too slender to bear the traction on its free posterior—i.Ci divided—extremity, requisite for it to be dissected from behind forwards. But the nerve has a fixed point in front in the muscle which it supplies, and is, therefore, naturally tensed for the purposes of dissection backwards from the orbit. Conversely, the anterior portion of the lachrymal nerve comprised within the orbit is too delicate to allov/ of the tension that would .be required for the disscct'ou from before backwards of the posterior part of the nerve comprised in the dense outer wall of the cavernous sinus. But this latter part of the nerve has a natural fixed point posteriorly in the trunk of the fifth nerve from which it arises, and may therefore be dissected easily fivm behind forwards. It seems almost a waste of time to explain such points as these; but diffi- culties are so much better overcome when they are understood, that the explanation may not be superfluous. Why the first quarter of an inch of the nerve comprised in the tentorium cerebelli is easily turned out of its bed is due, in the author's mind, to a provision against rupture of the nerve in such slight movements of the cerebral mass as must, though they have never been demonstrated, almost inevitably take place. The nerve is loosely embedded in the first part of its course in the tentorium. Somewhat of ine same thing occurs in the case of other nerves as they leave the dura mater, e.g., fifth nerve & leut:cular ganglion.