Third Edition, in crown Svo. with 8 full-page Coloured Plates and 37 Woodcuts, price Js. 6d. COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING; A MANUAL OF DOMESTIC ECONOMY FOR LARGE AND SMALL FAMILIES. By Mrs, HENRY REEVE, ' We can but hope that this book, which is both a manual for the givers of dinner parties and a recipe-book for cooks, and is adapted to all sorts and conditions of diners, may not only lead to a consider- able extension of culinary knowledge, but induce those who have gained that knowledge to practise what they know.'—Observer. ' It is impossible within the space of a notice to point out all the merits of this book, or to give in anything like detail the various points advocated by Mrs. Reeve ; but we can heartily recommend her Cookery and HouseJzeeping as one of the best, as it is certainly one of the least, technical books ever written on household and kitchen economics.' Bell's Life in London. * Bears the signs of a careful endeavour to get as far on the road to culinary perfection as possible. Mrs. Reeve has evidently made a serious study of domestic economy and the food of households, and her book is not a mere compilation tossed together without experience or counsel.'— Daily Telegraph. * If I had only had this book when I first viarried^ what a nu7)iberof foolish mistakes and ignorant extravagances I should have bee^i spared! was the exclamation of a lady, now an experienced and most successful housekeeper, as she looked through Mrs. Reeve's cookery-book. The * book is deserving of great praise, both in its arrangement and treat- ment, in which it differs greatly from most books of its class, and we think it will be found most practicable and reliable in the way the scheme is carried out. .... Mrs. Reeve need not fear that the publication of this book will be deemed presumptuous ; it will, on the contrary, be found most helpful, as it amply fulfils the intention with which it was undertaken.'—Spectator. London : LONGMANS, GREEN, & CO.Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2014 https://archive.org/details/b20400123SAVOURIES A LA MODESAVOURIES A LA MODE BY MRS DE SALIS LONDON LONGMANS, GREEN, AND CO. 1886 An rights reservedWELLGOME INSTITUTE LIBRARY Coll. welMOmec Call No.PREFACE. Savoury dishes at the present time being so fashionable, and novelties in them so much in- quired for, I have been persuaded by my friends to publish a small book on the subject. Many of the recipes are new, a few original, and I trust all will be found welcome. I have endeavoured to give all the recipes in as practical a manner as possible, so that any plain cook could manage them, at all events after one or two trials, and with a few hints from her mistress. And as I am glad to know that in these days of Schools of Cookery many mistresses have become their own chef, bad cooking in an establishment should be a thing of the past. HARRIET A. DE SALIS.SAVOURIES A LA MODE. Anchovy Canapes. Les Canapes aux Anchois. Cut some slices of crumb of bread a quarter of an inch thick, cut these in pieces two-and-a-half inches long, one-and-a-half inch wide, and fry them in clarified butter till of a nice golden colour; when cold, spread these slices with anchovy butter. Steep some anchovies in cold water, drain, open, and trim them. Place four fillets of anchovies on each piece of bread, leaving three small spaces between the fillets ; fill the first space with chopped hard-boiled white of egg, fill the middle space with chopped parsley, and the third with chopped hard-boiled yolk of egg rubbed through the sieve. Stuffed Anchovies. Anchois Farcis, Split open six anchovies, wash them in Chablis or some white wine, then bone them. Mix some chopped fish, bread-crumbs, and yolks of eggs together; stuff the anchovies with these, dip them into batter and fry. Garnish with fried parsley. B2 SAVOURIES A LA MODE. Canapds ct la Bismarck. Cut some rounds of bread with a two-inch cutter, fry them a light brown ; spread over each some anchovy butter, then curl round on each an anchovy well washed and trimmed ; sprinkle over them olives very finely shred. Caviar Canapes. Cut some slices of crumb of bread a quarter of an inch thick ; cut them out with a plain two-inch cutter, and fry these rounds in a little clarified butter till of a light golden colour. When cold, spread them over with Montpelier butter and place a layer of caviar on the top. Squeeze lemon over them and serve. Cod's Roe. Laitances de Morue. Take some smoked cod's roe, shave it into very small pieces, put it into a saucepan with a good- sized piece of butter and a little pepper ; stir it well over the fire, and pour it on pieces of toast cut in rounds. Sometimes muffin is used instead of toast. Finnan Haddock Balls. Pound the fish well and mix it with butter, pepper, and a little cream, then make into very small rissoles with a few bread-crumbs and fry ; slices of brown bread and butter being served with them.3 SAVOURIES A LA MODE. Lobster in Aspic. Aspic de Plomard. Make the jelly the same as under ^ Aspic Jelly.' Have some lobster cut in pieces, three eggs boiled hard, and a few pieces of tarragon and cress. Put a layer of the jelly in the mould, then arrange in designs pieces of the lobster alternately with the eggs, and here and there pieces of the green, accord- ing to fancy. When this has all set, put in more lobster, &c., and then more jelly in a half-melted state, and so on till the entire mould is filled up ; sprinkling in here and there a little lobster coral. These aspic moulds can be varied in every possible form. They can be made with prawns, fish, game, eggs, pate de foie gras, caviar, and mushrooms. Much depends on the taste of the artiste in their appearance : they can be ornamented with lobster coral, pistachio kernels chopped fine, yolks and hard-boiled whites of eggs cut into various devices. Barberries placed in the form of rings on the top make a very gay appearance; or the top could be made in six sections—two of barberries, two of pistachio kernels, and two of rings of white of egg. Chopped aspic, parsley, and slices of lemon should be the garnish round the moulds, and they always look best served in a silver dish. Lobster Bashaws. Homard a la Turc. Pick the meat from a large lobster, mince it finely, and pound it in a mortar with a little salt, pepper, cayenne, and butter ; divide the shell into B 2SAVOURIES A LA MODE. 4 quarters, scrape these thoroughly, and sprinkle over the inside some fine dried bread-crumbs. Put the mixture into the shells, cover thickly with bread- crumbs, pour over the top a quarter of a pound of clarified butter, an ounce over each quarter, and bake in a quick oven about ten minutes. Serve the meat in the shells, neatly arranged on a hot- napkin, and garnish with bright green parsley. Lobsters la Bordelaise. Homards a la Bordelaise. Cut up two lobsters each into eight pieces ; break the claws without spoiling their shape, and boil for twenty-five minutes in white wine, seasoned with a head of garlic, a laurel leaf, a bouquet garni of parsley and herbs, pepper and salt; place the cover on the saucepan and stir occasionally ; when done, dry each piece in a cloth and put them into a clean saucepan. Brown two sliced onions and shalots in butter, stir in a tablespoonful of flour, and when quite thick moisten with some of the liquor in which the lobsters were boiled ; stir over a quick fire for ten minutes ; add two tablespoonfuls of tomato sauce and a pinch of cayenne. Pour the sauce over the lobsters, and warm for a few moments. Dish up the pieces so arranged as to give the appearance of the lobsters not having been cut; garnish with the claws ; cover with the sauce and serve. Lobster Canapes. Les Canapes aux Homards. Cut and fry the bread as for caviar canapes ; spread the rounds with lobster butter and a lobster5 SAVOURIES A LA MODE. scallop previously soaked in oil, vinegar, salt, and pepper ; in the centre place a row of capers round the lobster, and serve. Lobster Creams. Homard en del. Take the flesh of a lobster, pound it well in the mortar with cream, rub it through a sieve ; add an eggspoonful of anchovy sauce and beat it up well in a pound of Devonshire clotted cream ; put this into the little French china ramequin moulds, strew coral over the top, and serve. Gratin of Lobster. Gratin de Homard. Cut a good-sized lobster in half and pick out all the meat, which must be cut into thin slices. Put a piece of butter the size of an egg into a saucepan with three shalots finely minced. Brown them lightly, then mix in a tablespoonful of flour, and, when quite smooth, add half a pint of milk. Simmer for five minutes. Put in the sliced lobster, a table- spoonful of chopped parsley, a little salt and cay- enne, and half a teaspoonful of anchovy sauce. Stir over the fire, and, when boiling, draw the saucepan back, and add the well-beaten yolk of an egg. Fill the shell of the lobster with the mix- ture, sprinkle bread-crumbs over it, and pour on a little clarified butter. Put the shell in a hot oven for twenty minutes, dish on a napkin, and serve.SAVOURIES A LA MODE. 6 Lobster Omelet. Omelette au Homard. This omelet is made like all the other omelets^ substituting lobster in place of oysters, kidney, &c. It can be made in two ways, exactly like the receipts given for oyster omelet. Sardines or an- chovies may be used instead of lobster. Small Rolls with Lobster. Petits Pains a la Fran^aise au Homard. Prepare the rolls as for chicken rolls, then cut some lobster tails into small dice. Mix them in some mayonnaise sauce with some chopped Montpelier butter. Fill the rolls, replace the covers, and serve. These rolls may be made with game, prawns, or shrimps. Prawns in Disguise. Crevettes en Mascarade. Cut some small rounds of bread and butter two inches in diameter, peel some prawns, marinade them in some mayonnaise sauce ; place three on each round of bread with a small piece of water- cress on each, place over all some whipped aspic jelly ; strew lobster coral over them, and garnish with aspic jelly cut in the shape of lozenges. Prince of Wales Canapds. Canapes a la Prince de Galles. Take some fine prawns, fillets of anchovies, celery, two gherkins, and two truffles. Cut all these into small squares, put them into a basin with enough Prince of Wales sauce to season the7 SAVOURIES A LA MODE. ingredients. Fill ramequin or china cases with this mixture, and lay a piece of aspic jelly on the top of - each, garnishing with the same chopped. Prince of Wales sauce for above : two yolks of eggs boiled hard, two anchovies, some tarragon, the latter parboiled and dried, a few capers, a little mustard, and the yolk of an egg. Bruise all these in a mortar, and then work in one tablespoonful of salad oil, a teaspoonful of tarragon vinegar, and rub through a sieve. Angels on Horseback. Anges a Cheval. Take very thin slices of fat bacon, cut all the rind off. Then take an oyster (or two if very small), pour on it two drops of essence of anchovy, four of lemon, and a grain of cayenne, and roll it in the slice of bacon. When there are sufficient of these rolls, put them on a small skewer and fry them ; when cooked take each one separately and place on a fried crouton. This is a dish w^hich must be served very hot. Oyster Omelet. Omelette aux Huitres. Blanch and beard eight oysters and mince them finely with three drops of anchovy sauce. Then proceed the same as for kidney omelet. Another way of making oyster omelet is to make a plain omelet, and after it is folded place in between the folds a tablespoonful of good oyster sauce and hold the salamander over it for a few seconds.8 SAVOURIES A LA MODE, Scalloped Oysters. Coquilles aux Huitres. Open and beard a dozen oysters and scald them for a second in their own liquor. Make a white sauce into which some oyster liquor is poured, a grain of cayenne, a salt- spoonful of anchovy sauce, and a squeeze of lemon. Boil this till it is cooked. Put the oysters in the scallop shell, pour the white sauce over them, and strew bread-crumbs on the top, and place some butter in small pieces all over. Have the salamander red-hot, and brown them. Send them to table very hot. Oyster Souffle. Souffle aux Huitres. Take two dozen blue point oysters, mince them and rub them through a wire sieve. Blanch and beard a dozen large oysters, and cut each one into four pieces. Put two ounces of flour and one ounce of butter into a stewpan, and mix them well together over the fire ; then add a quarter of a pint of oyster liquor, and stir all together till it thickens, and the flour is well cooked. Put this sauce and the pounded oysters into a mortar and pound them well together, adding two yolks of eggs one at a time, a little salt, cayenne pepper, and a quarter of a pint of cream. When these are all thoroughly mixed, beat three whites of egg to a stiff froth and stir them into the mixture very lightly; thenSAVOURIES A LA MODE. 9 put in the oysters. Butter the mould, pour in the mixture, cover it with buttered paper and steam it gently for half an hour. Strew lobster coral over all. Russian Tartlets. Tartelettes a la Russe. Make very light pastry tartlets ; then take some oysters boiled in their own liquor (cut off their beards), one grated tablespoonful of horseradish, one gill of stock, some lemon juice, one table- spoonful of vinegar, one gill of white sauce, one teaspoonful of capers, half a gill of the oyster liquor, and a very little salt; let all these boil a few minutes. Then add, off the fire, the yolk of an egg whisked up ; now add the oysters. Then put pieces of lobster, sardines, and anchovies at the bottom of the tartlet cases, and fill up with the oysters and sauce. vSprinkle over each, lobster coral, parsley rubbed through a sieve, and capers. Make hot in the oven for ten minutes, and serve. Dressed Sardines. Croutons a la Sardine. Cut six bread croutons two inches in diameter, fry them, and then make a mixture of two tea- spoonfuls of essence of anchovy, two teaspoonfuls of Worcester sauce, a grain of cayenne, one dessert- spoonful of flour, two ounces of butter, and a quarter pint of boiling water, which should simmer till the flour is well cooked. Scrape and bone six sardines, pound them in butter and put them on the croutons ; then pour over the sauce, squeeze a few drops of lemon juice over, and serve.lo SAVOURIES A LA MODE, Fisherman's Canapes. Canapes * al Pescatore.' Cut rounds of bread ; fry them. Make fillets of sardines, oysters, lobster, &c., and lay them on the bread in strips across and across, and run butter round the edge in ornamental patterns. Montpelier butter can be used alternately with plain butter. Sardine Eggs. Qilufs aux Sardines. Boil four eggs for ten minutes and put them into cold water; scrape four sardines gently and pound them in the mortar. Shell the eggs and cut them in half lengthways, take out the yolks and add them to the sardines in the mortar with one ounce of butter, a little white pepper and salt, and a dessert-spoonful of parsley. Pound all together ; then fill the whites and put the two halves together, and serve in a nest of small salad sprinkled with oil and vinegar. Sardines k I'lndienne. Place the yolks of four eggs in a stewpan with a pat of fresh butter, a spoonful of chutney, a little salt and cayenne to taste ; stir these ingredients over a slow fire till they form a fairly firm paste. Care- fully trim each sardine, and absorb their moisture with a fish cloth. Thoroughly mask them with the mixture, egg and bread-crumb them, fry to a delicate hue in clarified butter ; dish them up on strips of thin crisp toast, and serve very hot.SAVOURIES A LA MODE. Sardines Maitre d'H6tel. Take six sardines, a dessert-spoonful of chopped parsley, one thin slice of onion pounded fine, one tablespoonful of chilli vinegar, half a pint of melted butter, and a round of toast; scrape the sardines, arrange them neatly on toast, and put the above sauce over them, adding a squeeze of lemon juice and cayenne to it. Sardines a la Piemontaise. Fry some bread in boiling lard or butter ; cut it into fingers ; scale and wipe some sardines, make them hot in the oven, and place one on each finger of bread ; then pour over them the following sauce : —The yolks of four eggs well whipped, half an ounce of butter, one teaspoonful of tarragon vinegar, one teaspoonful of common vinegar, a mustard- spoonful of made mustard, and a little salt. These must be well stirred over the fire till the sauce thickens but does not boil. Savoury Canapes. Brioches. Take three tablespoonfuls of mayonnaise sauce, shred some celery very finely, a small shalot well pounded, pieces of anchovies, lobster, sardines, oysters, and shrimps, a little tarragon and chervil finely minced ; mix the ingredients with the mayonnaise sauce, and fill the brioche cases (which are best bought) ; run butter through the forcer round the edge of the brioche cases. Stand them on Montpelier butter (butter and watercress, see under that heading), strew lobster coral and hard^SAVOURIES A LA MODE. 12 boiled yolks passed through a sieve on the top of each; serve with chopped aspic round. These brioche cases can be also filled with caviar. Savoury Trifle. Bouchees a la Lucullus. Cut a thick slice of bread from a large stale loaf; cut off the crust, hollow out the centre ; fry a pale brown, and drain on a sieve. Fill the hollow with lobster or crab pulled finely. Place a bed of salad in an entree dish, on which place the croustade or slice of bread filled with lobster ; pour over mayonnaise sauce, and sprinkle with lobster coral. Scalloped Scallops. Coquilles a I'Escalope. Wash the scallops well in two or three waters, trim away the beards, preserving the white, black, and orange-coloured parts. Mince the scallops finely, and mix with them a very little finely chopped parsley and a little pepper, salt, and a trifle of cayenne. Make a white sauce, cook it well, add the squeeze of a lemon ; then throw the minced scallops into the sauce for a second, give one turn on the fire, and pour into the shells ; add six drops of chilli vinegar, strew bread-crumbs over, and place on the top plenty of little pieces of butter ; brown with the salamander, and serve very hot. Shrimp Canapes. Canapes aux Crevettes. Cut and fry the bread as for caviar sandwiches ; when cold, spread over with shrimp butter ; placeV SAVOURIES A LA MODE. 13 the picked shrimps on the top in the form of a rosette, leaving a space in the middle for a little chopped parsley. Shrimp Rolls. Crevettes en Surprise. Take French rolls, cut them into very thin slices, butter them well ; place on them some picked shrimps, curl the slices round ; dish up in a pyra- mid garnished with small salad. Shrimp Toast. Crevettes a la Bonnefemme. Mix in a saucepan the yolks of two eggs, one teaspoonful of anchovy sauce ; soak in this a thick round of buttered toa&t. Peel some shrimps and place them on the toast, and serve hot. Baked Eggs. (Eufs au Miroir. Spread a thick layer of fresh butter on a tin or fire-proof china dish, sprinkle with salt, and break the eggs carefully on to it, one at a time; pour some cream over them, season with salt, pepper, and one grate of nutmeg ; place a few small lumps of butter over all, bake in the oven, and brown with a salamander. Eggs with Brown Butter. CEufs au Beurre Noir. Brown two ounces of fresh butter in a pan but do not let it burn ; add one tablespoonful of pickedSAVOURIES A LA MODE, 14 parsley that has been washed and dried. Turn this out of the pan, return the pan to the stove again, and when quite hot put in two tablespoon- fuls of French vinegar ; let this boil, and pour it on to the butter and parsley. Next butter a pan, break in fresh eggs, place them gently into a moderate oven until the white is just set, and the yolks lightly cooked ; cut them round with a cutter, leaving a quarter of an inch around the yolk, and pour the hot sauce round it Eggs in Cases. CEufs en Caisse. Oil some small paper ramequin cases (unless the white fire-proof china cases are used), put into each a piece of butter the size of a nut, with a small pinch of parsley, some pepper, salt, and a cayenne-spoon- ful of cayenne. Break an egg into each case, add a teaspoonful of grated Parmesan and a sprinkling of baked bread-crumbs. Put the cases in the oven for about five minutes, and serve. The Epicure's Eggs. CEufs a la Gourmet. Prepare the eggs as for lobster or shrimp eggs {see those recipes, page i6), pound with the yolks some grated tongue and ham, moisten with a little meat jelly or aspic, and fill the hard-boiled whites with this mixture. On the top of each cut beetroot in the form of leaves, and arrange them round with a small spray of dried parsley in the middle of each.SAVOURIES A LA MODE. Eggs au Gratin. CEufs au Gratin. Cut some hard-boiled eggs in slices and lay them on a well-buttered dish with grated Par- mesan cheese, black pepper, and a grate of nutmeg. Sprinkle some baked bread-crumbs over all, put the dish in the oven, and serve as soon as the con- tents begin to colour. Forced Eggs in Aspic. GEufs Farcis en Aspic. Boil four eggs hard, cut them into halves, take out the yolks and put them in the mortar with a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, a teaspoonful of lemon thyme, a grate of nutmeg, a very little salt, and still less cayenne; pound these ingredients together with an ounce of butter ; when smooth, fill the whites with this mixture, and make what is over into little balls. Have some aspic jelly, pour some into a border mould ; when it is nearly set put alternately round the mould and on the jelly the stuffed whites and the egg balls alternately. Then fill up the mould with the aspic and set on ice. Indian Eggs. CEufs a rindienne. Cut a small slice from each end of some hard- boiled eggs, and cut them into halves, the round way. Take out the yolks and pound them in a mortar and mix them well with a mixture made as follows: a heaped teaspoonful of good curry-i6 SAVOURIES A LA MODE. powder, two ounces of butter, and a dessert-spoonful of essence of anchovy, well blended and cooked in a stewpan. Fill the eggs with this mixture, dish them up, garnished with watercress and rolled bread and butter. Scalloped Eggs and Oysters. Coquilles d'CEufs aux Huitres. Melt two ounces of fresh butter in a saucepan with salt, pepper, a grate of nutmeg, a dessert-spoon- ful of minced parsley, a teaspoonful of minced chives and morels ; well cook this mixture and scald four dozen oysters in their own liquor and then put oysters and liquor (which must be strained) into the mixture, and give one boil ; then add five or six hard-boiled eggs sliced. Simmer over a gentle fire for a few minutes ; then pour this into scallop shells, sprinkle with fine bread-crumbs, lay small pieces of butter on the top, and brown with the salamander. Shrimp Eggs. GEufs aux Crevettes. Prepare the eggs the same as for Indian eggs. Pick some shrimps, place them in the mortar, and pound them thoroughly with the hard-boiled yolks and two ounces of butter, a grain of cayenne, a tea- spoonful of essence of shrimps or anchovy. When these ingredients are thoroughly well mixed and pounded, fill the whites with the mixture. Place a sprig of watercress in each egg, and garnish with small salad. These eggs may be varied by filling them with prawns or lobster instead of the shrimps.SAVOURIES A LA MODE. 17 Parmesan Eggs. CEufs au Parmesan. Prepare the eggs as for Indian eggs, &c., and pound with the yolks in a mortar two ounces of butter and two ounces of grated Parmesan cheese. Fill the whites, and garnish with small tomatoes in a circle around. Scrambled Eggs and Tomatoes. QEufs et Tomates a la Hate. Free from pips a large tomato, mince finely with two slices of Spanish onion, add plenty of butter, and pepper and salt to taste; stir it in a stewpan on the fire till the onion is quite cooked but not coloured, then throw in four eggs beaten up, and keep on stirring the whole till the eggs are nearly set. Serve at once within a circle of fried bread sippets. This can be made with Parmesan cheese in- stead of tomatoes. Stuffed Eggs with Cream. CEufs Farcis a la Creme. Shell some hard-boiled eggs, cut them in half lengthways ; take out the yolks. Take an equal weight of butter with the yolks, and pound them, with a piece of bread-crumb the size of a small potato soaked in milk, in a mortar. Season with a grate of nutmeg, a grain of cayenne, a tea- spoonful each of finely chopped parsley and shalot, a little salt, and three raw yolks of eggs. When C18 SAVOURIES A LA MODE, well-pounded, pass through a sieve ; then fill the empty whites of egg with this mixture and pour some white or bechamel sauce made with thick cream over them. Stuffed Eg-gs a la Proven^ale. CEufs Farcis a la Proyen9ale. Take four hard-boiled eggs, shell them and cut them in half longways ; remove the yolks and put them into a mortar with three anchovies boned, two ounces of watercress, some butter, one teaspoonful of essence of anchovy, and a grain of cayenne. Pound all these ingredients well together, after which rub them through a hair sieve. Fill the whites with this mixture. Make small handles of parsley-stalks across the tops. Dish up on shredded lettuce, with the remainder of the mixture in the centre, and a little mayonnaise sauce poured over. Swiss Eggs. QEufs a la Suisse. Spread two ounces of good butter on the bottom of a dish, and lay on it six thin slices of Gruyere cheese ; break six eggs upon this, keep- ing the yolks whole. Sprinkle over some mignon- ette pepper and salt. Mix a teaspoonful of chopped parsley and two ounces of grated Gruyere cheese together, and strew over them. Bake in a very quick oven for about ten or twelve minutes. Eggs and Tomatoes. QEufs a I'Espagnole. Bake and skin tomatoes, cut them up and pass through a hair sieve. Put an ounce of butterSAVOURIES A LA MODE, 19 into a stewpan, having rubbed the bottom slightly with garlic ; whilst it is getting hot over the fire, put in the tomatoes with a dessert-spoonful of chopped onions and two capsicums. Beat up three eggs, add them to the tomatoes with salt and pepper to taste, keep stirring till nearly dry, when they are done, and should be dished up in the form of a pyramid. Cheese Aigrettes. Aigrettes au Parmesan. Put one ounce of butter into half a pint of cold water till it boils ; when boiling add two-and-a-half ounces of Vienna flour, stirring vigorously all the time over the fire until it is cooked—that is to say, until the panado leaves the sides of the saucepan quite clean and coats the spoon. Take it off the fire, and when slightly cooled add two whole eggs and the yolk of another one by one, a little salt and cayenne, and then three ounces of Parmesan cheese grated and beat well together. Have ready some fat not quite boiling, and drop small pieces of the mixture from a teaspoon and fry till a nice brown ; it generally takes five to ten minutes. Serve on a napkin in the form of a pyramid, and sprinkle with Parmesan cheese. Baked Cheese. Gruyere au Four. Warm four ounces of butter in a quarter of a pint of water, add a saltspoonful of salt. As soon as this boils, stir in seven ounces of flour ; after a few minutes, take the saucepan off the fire, and c 220 SAVOURIES A LA MODE, add four yolks of eggs, the whites well whipped, and four ounces of grated Gruyere cheese ; pour this mixture into a china fireproof dish, cover it all over with very thin slices of the cheese, glaze with yolks of egg, and bake for twenty-five minutes. Cheese Biscuits la Saint-Denis. Talmouses a la Saint-Denis. Take three tablespoonfuls of fine flour, half a pound of cream curds, five ounces of Brie cheese which has been carefully scraped, and a pinch of salt, pound all in a mortar ; then add five ounces of melted butter ; stir in three eggs to make a stiff paste, which must be rolled very thin, and cut into small round biscuits. Bake in a quick oven and serve hot. Kluskis of Cream Cheese. Kluskis au Fromage a la Creme. Take half a pound of fresh butter, six eggs, six tablespoonfuls of cream cheese, a pinch of powdered sugar, salt, and sufficient grated bread-crumbs and cream to make a paste ; mix well together, and roll into balls ; poach them in boiling salt and water, drain, and serve them with poivrade sauce. Cheese Omelet. Omelette au Fromage. Break three eggs into a basin and whip them till well mixed, add pepper, salt, and two ounces of grated Parmesan cheese.21 SAVOURIES A LA MODE. Melt oneounceof butter in the omelet pan ; when the butter is quite hot pour the egg mixture into the pan, stir quickly to prevent sticking. Keep shaking the pan to prevent the omelet from sticking or burning ; spread it over the bottom of the pan to let it cook through, and watch it very carefully. When just set, take a knife and put it under the omelet and fold the omelet over. When the omelet is of a pale brown colour, turn it out of the pan into a hot dish. Cheese Ramequins. Ramequins au Fromage. Crumble a small stale roll and cover it with a breakfastcupful of milk, which must be quite boiling ; after it has w//soaked, strain and put it in the mor- tar with four ounces of Parmesan and four ounces of Gloucester cheese grated, four ounces of fresh butter, half a teaspoonful of made mustard, a little salt and pepper, and a saltspoonful of sifted sugar. These ingredients must be all well pounded together with the yolks of four eggs, adding the well-whipped whites of the eggs. Half fill the paper cases or china moulds with this, bake them in a quick oven about ten to fifteen minutes, and serve hot as possible. Cheese Souffle. Souffle au Parmesan. Mix a teaspoonful of flour very smoothly with half a pint of milk, a little salt and pepper; simmer the mixture over the fire, stirring all the time, till it is as thick as melted butter ; stir into this about22 SAVOURIES A LA MODE, eight ounces of Parmesan or Gruyere cheese (the latter is best). Turn it into a basin, and mix with the yolks of four well-beaten eggs. Whisk the whites "to a solid froth, and just before the souffle is baked put them into it, and pour the mixture into a souffle dish, which should only be half filled. Time to bake, twenty minutes to half an hour. Cheese Straws. Failles au Parmesan. Take two ounces of flour, and mix with it a little salt and a cayeniie-s'^oovSyA of red pepper. Then take three ounces of Parmesan cheese ; grate it. Rub the cheese and two ounces of butter well into the flour, then mix all these ingredients, together with the yolk of an egg, into a smooth stiff paste. Roll the paste out into a strip one- eighth of an inch in thickness and five inches wide, which is to be the length of the cheese straws. Cut this strip of paste into strips one-eighth of an inch wide, so that they will be five inches long and one-eighth of an inch in thickness. With the re- mainder of the paste, and with two round cutters, cut little rings of paste. Put the cheese straws and rings on the baking sheet and put them into a hot oven for ten minutes, the heat rising to 246°. For serving, put the cheese straws through the rings like a bundle of sticks. Adelaide Sandwiches. Tartines a I'Adelaide. Cut the breast of a fowl or of some game into very small dice ; wash four anchovies and cut themSAVOURIES A LA MODE, 23 likewise into dice and place them with the meat. Then put two spoonfuls of bechamel sauce and a small quantity of grated Parmesan, a little salt and cayenne, into a stewpan, stirring till reduced to a thick sauce ; then add the meat and anchovies. Mix the whole together and use the preparation as follows :—Cut two dozen croutons in the form of a circle, fry them in clarified butter to a bright colour, and place one half on a clean baking sheet; spread a thick layer of the above prepara- tion on each of the croutons, then cover them with the remaining twelve croutons. Grate four ounces of Parmesan cheese and mix this with a pat of butter ; divide it into twelve parts and cover the top of each sandwich. About ten minutes before serving put them in the oven to be thoroughly warmed, pass the red-hot salamander over them to colour them a bright yellow, garnish with fried parsley. Aspic Jelly. Take a tablespoonful of Liebig, put two quarts of water to it, adding shalots, celery seed, thyme, two bay leaves, a carrot, turnip, and an onion stuck with cloves ; let all simmer till it is all well impreg- nated with the vegetables. Then add the rind of a lemon cut thin, a glass of sherry, a few drops of chilli vinegar and a dessert-spoonful of tarragon. Put a large tablespoonful of gelatine with two of water, let it swell, then stir it in with the stock till it is dissolved ; add the whites of two eggs slightly beaten up, and let all boil up ; remove to side of fire and let it simmer for half an hour, then strain through a hot jelly-bag till clear, and pour it into a mould and place on ice.24 SAVOURIES A LA MODE, Devilled Biscuits. Biscuits a I'Enfer. Take some water biscuits two-and-a-half inches in diameter, butter them on both sides, and pepper them well with black pepper and a little salt. Toast them before the fire or put them in the oven. Or lay a mixture of cheese and made mustard on the biscuits and grill them. Russian Biscuits. Biscuits a la Russe. Take some small thin captain's biscuits, mince finely cucumber, watercress, the white and yolk of a hard-boiled egg and some anchovies well washed and dried. Cover each biscuit with this mixture ; place two or three capers in the middle, and garnish, with aspic and watercress. Canapes k la Rothschild. Cut small rounds of bread, fry them a pale colour. Have some marrow, mix some cut truffles with it, make it very hot; pour on the bread in a small conical shape, and curl a boned anchovy round on the top. Garnish with parsley, and serve very hot and quickly. Chicken Rolls. Petits Pains a la Francaise au Salpicon. Take some French rolls, rasp them, cut out a. piece of the crust on the top and remove the crumb25 SAVOURIES A LA MODE. from the inside. Prepare a mince of fillets of chicken, tongue, and truffles stirred into mayon- naise sauce. Fill the rolls with this salpicon, replace the covers and dish them up. Iced Savoury Souffle. This dish can be made of almost any kind of fish, chicken, or game ; it is excellent with crab. Cut up the crab, or whatever it may be, into very small pieces ; let it soak in mayonnaise sauce for two or three hours. Have some well-flavoured aspic jelly and whip it till it is frothy. Put some of this at the bottom of the dish it is to be served in, then place a layer of the crab, and fill it up with aspic and crab alternately till the mould is nearly full ; place a stiff band of paper round, and fill in with whipped aspic. Put it on ice for two hours, take off the paper, and serve. Kidney Toast. Tartines aux Rognons. Split kidneys in two, remove sinews and outer skin, mince them finely. Put some chopped parsley and a little shalot also chopped into a stewpan with a little butter ; let all fry together for a few moments. When done, add a tablespoonful of Worcester sauce, sprinkle in a very little flour, and boil up again for two minutes, so that the flour may be well cooked. Whilst boiling, stir in the minced kidneys with salt and pepper to taste. Butter some thin slices of toast, cover them with the mince, and over that a thick layer of bread- crumbs mixed with a small quantity of ParmesanSAVOURIES A LA MODE. 26 cheese ; place them in a quick oven for ten minutes, and serve very hot. Kidney Omelet. Omelette aux Rognons. Take a sheep's kidney, cut it up into small pieces and saute it in a stewpan with a little pepper and salt, a teaspoonful of parsley, and a small shalot chopped very fine. Beat the whites and yolks of three eggs separately ; mix the kidney and chopped shalot with the yolks of egg. Melt one and a half ounce of butter in the pan, and make it very hot. Now stir the whipped whites into the yolks and put the mixture into the omelet- pan for two or three minutes over the fire, stirring all the time, and folding it as in the cheese omelet recipe. Macaroni with Tomato Sauce. Macaroni a la Sauce Tomate. Boil a pound of Naples macaroni with a piece of fresh butter the size of an egg, an onion, two cloves, and some salt; when done, drain the maca- roni, and place it in a saucepan with five ounces of grated Gruyere cheese, five ounces of Parmesan cheese, some black pepper, and six tablespoonfuls of cream ; toss over the fire until the cheese becomes thick and stringy. Dish up in a pyramid and mask with thick tomato sauce. Savoury Rice. Riz aux Delices. Put into a saucepan six cupfuls of stock or broth into which has been previously dissolved a27 SAVOURIES A LA MODE. good allowance of either tomato paste or tomato sauce, add pepper and salt to taste ; when it boils, throw in for every cupful of stock half a cupful of rice, well-washed and dried before the fire. Let the whole remain on the fire until the rice has ab- sorbed all the stock, then melt a large piece of butter, and pour it over the rice. Semolina Canapes. Goulez de Reyna. Take one pint of milk, one ounce of butter, and two ounces of semolina. Boil to a thick paste, and then add one ounce of Parmesan cheese. Lay on a dish till cold, then cut it into fingers, egg and crumb them and brown in the oven. Serve with good gravy round. Savoury Vermicelli. Vermicelli a la Venise. Boil one pint of milk ; when boiled, put in three tablespoonfuls of vermicelli. Let it simmer for five minutes, then add three eggs ; beat up all together with a gill of cream, salt, white pepper, and a small shalot. Butter a mould and stick it all over with small neatly cut pieces of ham and tongue. Pour in the mixture. Then bake it, and serve it, when turned out, with savoury gravy or tomato sauce. Gascony Butter. Beurre de Gascogne. Take two ounces of parsley, two ounces of anchovy paste. First boiling the parsley, pass it28 SAVOURIES A LA MODE. through a sieve till quite fine, then mix the parsley, anchovies, and two ounces of butter together. Make it up into balls and put it on ice till it is time to serve it with the cheese. Montpelier Butter. Beurre de Montpellier. Pick the leaves of a quantity of watercress,, mince them as finely as possible, and dry them in a cloth. Then mince them still more and dry them again. Then knead them with as much fresh butter as they will take up, adding a very little salt and pepper. Work it up into balls, and serve with the cheese course. Fried Artichokes. Artichauts Frits. Cut the artichokes into slices lengthways, remove the chokes, cut off the tops of the leaves, trim the bottoms, wash them in vinegar and water ; drain them, and dip them into a thin paste made of eggs, flour, cream, pepper, salt, with half a wine- glass of brandy. Fry in oil or lard. Serve with fried parsley sprinkled with salt. Stewed Artichokes. Fonds d'Artichauts. Strip off the leaves from the artichokes, remove the chokes, and soak them in tepid water for about three hours, changing the water occasionally. Place them in a saucepan with enough gravy to cover them, a tablespoonful of mushroom ketchup.SAVOURIES A LA MODE. 29 the strained juice of a lemon, and a piece of butter the size of a walnut rolled in flour. Let them stew gently till tender, then serve with the sauce poured over as hot as possible. Stewed Artichokes with Essence of Ham. Artichauts a 1'Essence de Jambon. Trim the artichokes, cut out the chokes and stuff with minced mushrooms, minced bacon, parsley, and shalots, which have been cooked in butter. Line a braising-pan with slices of bacon, add the artichokes, season with pepper and salt, and a bouquet of mixed herbs ; moisten with half a pint of stock, and cook over a slow fire with hot coals on the lid. When done, dish up, covered with essence of ham, which is made by mincing some ham very fine, pounding it and warming it in melted butter ; then stir in a very little flour, and moisten with a little stock. Season with a bouquet of herbs, minced mushrooms, and a teaspoonful of vinegar, pass through a sieve, and pour over the artichokes. Stuffed Artichokes. Artichauts Farcis Thoroughly wash the artichokes. Boil them till nearly tender, drain them, remove the middle leaves and the chokes, and lay in each a little good forcemeat, and put them in a moderate oven until the meat is sufficiently cooked. Make a good rich brown gravy to serve with them. Any kind of forcemeat may be used.SAVOURIES A LA MODE. so Artichokes a la Lyonnaise. Artichauts a la Lyonnaise. Cut up the artichokes into quarters, remove the chokes. Put them into a saucepan with some melted butter flavoured with lemon juice, simmer till done ; then take out the artichokes, and add to the sauce a teacupful of stock, a piece of brown thickening, two or three slices of onion, and a bit of butter the size of a walnut, and leave on the fire to brown ; then pass through a sieve, season with pepper and salt, and add a teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Warm the artichokes in this sauce, and serve. Jerusalem Artichokes k I'ltalienne. Artichauts a I'ltalienne. Wash and peel the artichokes, shaping them like pears of uniform size. Butter a stewpan with two ounces of butter, and arrange the artichokes in circles. Strew over some pepper, salt, and lemon juice ; pour a quarter of a pint of good gravy over them, put the lid on, and simmer for half an hour^ basting them occasionally. They should colour a deep yellow. Serve with cream sauce or Italian sauce round them. The Italian sauce is made with a quarter of a pint of white stock, a wineglass of Chablis, which must simmer till reduced to one-half; add a few finely minced mushrooms, one shalot, a bouquet of thyme, and parsley. Thicken with flour and butter, and stir over the fire three minutes ; then simmer for a quarter of an hour, stirring slowly. This dish can be varied by sprinkling them with grated Parmesan.31 SAVOURIES A LA MODE. Asparagus Omelet. Omelettes aux Pointes d'Asperges. Boil about twenty-five heads of asparagus, and cut the green ends when tender into short pieces. Mix with them four well-beaten eggs, adding a little pepper and salt. Melt an ounce of butter (or perhaps rather more) in an omelet-pan, pour in the mixture, stir till it thickens over the fire, fold it nicely over. Asparagus sauce may be served with it, or clarified butter into which a few drops of vinegar have been poured. Asparagus with Cream. Asperges a la Creme. Cut up some heads of asparagus, wash and drain them, boil them for three minutes, and simmer for half an hour ; drain again, and stir some clotted cream into them, and serve in a glass dish. Asparagus a la Pompadour. Boil the asparagus in boiling salt and water. When cooked, cut it into lengths of about three inches, drain them, and let them lie before the fire for a few moments. Then take one ounce of fresh butter, two yolks of egg, a pinch of salt, a salt- spoonful of pepper, and a tablespoonful of vinegar. Cook in a saucepan till thick ; dish up the asparagus in a pyramid, and pour the sauce over.32 SAVOURIES A LA MODE, Beetroot Fritters. Betteraves a la Chartreuse. Cut some boiled beetroot into slices. Take two pieces at a time, place a slice of raw onion sprinkled with chopped chervil, pepper and salt, between them, dip into batter, and plunge into boiling fat. When a good colour, dish up. Broad Beans with Cream. Feves de Marais a la Creme. Take the smallest and youngest of the beans and throw them into boiling water for a few seconds (if old, they must be skinned). Boil them in a pint of milk, with two ounces of butter, a dessert-spoon- ful of chopped parsley, and a pinch of salt; thicken the sauce with two whipped yolks of egg, and stir in^ two tablespoonfuls of cream. Omelet of French Beans. Omelette aux Haricots Verts. Cut up finely two tablespoonfuls of French beans, stir into them four well-beaten eggs ; then add two tablespoonfuls of grated Parmesan, with a little pepper and salt to taste. When perfectly mixed, put the whole, with two ounces of melted butter, into the omelet-pan, and fry a pale brown. The time varies from three to five minutes. Ofnelette a la Jardinifere. Stew some minced mushrooms, carrots, turnips, French beans, herbs, young green peas, and broadSAVOURIES Jl LA MODE. 33 beans in stock. When done, stir in a little brown thickening ; take half the vegetables, beat together with twelve eggs, and cook the omelet in the usual manner. Serve covered with the remainder of the cooked vegetables. French Beans k la Poulette. Haricots a la Poulette. Take tender French beans, remove all fibres by breaking off the ends ; wash and boil them in boiling water. When done, toss them in melted butter seasoned with chopped chives and parsley ; stir in a dessert-spoonful of flour, a pinch of salt, and a quarter of a pint of stock ; reduce the sauce, thicken with three yolks of eggs, and flavour with a few drops of lemon-juice when it is ready to serve. Cauliflower Fritters, Marinade de Chouxfleurs, Blanch the cauliflower and break it into pieces, dip into a thick bechamel sauce, and leave it till it is quite cold ; then take each piece separately and dip into batter made of a half a pound of flour and one ounce of melted butter mixed in a bowl ; stir well, and, when the paste is perfectly smooth, moisten with just enough warm water to make it a proper substance, to which a pinch of salt is added and the whipped white of an egg. After dipping the pieces of cauliflower in the batter, fry in boiling lard or butter. Serve hot, garnished with fried parsley. D34 SAVOURIES A LA MODE, Cauliflower au Gratin. Chouxfleurs au Gratin. Take a nice white and close cauliflower, and cut away its outer leaves. Put it head downwards in a saucepan with plenty of fast-boiling water slightly salted, and let it boil till tender ; it must be kept with the flower under water. All scum must be removed as it rises. When it is done take it up and drain it on a sieve, then place it on the dish it is to be served in, and squeeze it together gently in a clean cloth, and a sauce poured gently over it made of two ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, half an ounce of butter, an ounce of flour, a quarter of a pint of cold water, a tablespoonful of cream, and a grain of cayenne pepper. The cream should not be put in till the sauce is well boiled, thick, and smooth, and the cheese should be stirred in last. Sprinkle some grated cheese on the top and brown it with salamander. Stuffed Cucumbers. Concombres Farcis. Cut two cucumbers into slices about two inches thick, but do not use the ends; peel and remove all the pips, scald them for ten minutes, plunge them into cold water and drain them"; line a china fire-proof dish with slices of bacon cut thin, stuff the cucumber rings with forcemeat composed of some veal finely minced without gristle, and fat from the calf s kidney ; season with salt, pepper, and a grain of grated nutmeg, moistened with a wineglassful of milk, and pound till quite smooth. HavingSAVOURIES A LA MODE. 35 filled the rings of cucumber with this forcemeat, wrap them up in slices of bacon, which tie round with a string ; moisten with a pint of stock, and bake for twenty minutes in a slow oven. When done, drain the cucumber, take away the slices of bacon and dish up, covered with a sauce made of a quarter of a pound of butter, one ounce of flour. Brown it and moisten it with stock ; add a little glaze, and stir over fire for twenty minutes ; pass through sieve and flavour with lemon-juice. Morels a I'Andalouse. Morilles a I'Andalouse. Cut half a pound of ham into dice ; fry them in salad oil, and, when a good colour, put in some morels ; moisten with half a pint of sherry, a gill (quarter pint) of Madeira, season with a mixture composed of a saltspoonful of salt, half a teaspoonful of pepper, and a teaspoonful of capsicum powder, to which add a dessert-spoonful of finely-minced parsley. Cook all this for forty-five minutes, then dish up morels in a pyramid and pour the sauce over it, which must be thickened with flour and flavoured with lemon-juice. Mushroom Baskets. Paniers de Champignons et Tomates. Make some puff paste; roll it out very thin ; line some small moulds with it, filling up the centre with barley, that they may keep their shape till baked, when it must be removed. Fill the inside of these moulds with mushrooms and toma- D 236 SAVOURIES A LA MODE. toes minced ; pound this mixture in the mortar with a small shalot, one ounce of butter, a table- spoonful of thick white sauce, into which a few drops of lemon have been squeezed. Some of the puff paste should have been twisted into lengths bent to the shape of handles,, and baked at the same time as the puff paste- Put the handles in, and decorate with fried parsle}r and preserved barberries. These baskets can also be filled with lobster^ chicken, or game. Mushrooms au Gratin. Champignons au Gratin. Chop up half a dozen mushrooms and mix them in a stewpan with an ounce of lean ham, grated,, and the same quantity of the fat of bacon, scraped. Add pepper and salt to taste, and a saltspoonful of minced thyme ; let all these fry together for a few minutes, then add the yolks of two eggs, stir- ring them all together till cooked. Prepare some large flat mushrooms by peeling and trimming the edges and cutting off' the stalks. Fill each with some of the above preparation, and cover with raspings of bread ; spread butter thickly over and place the mushrooms in the saute-pan and saute them. Next put them in the oven for a quarter of an hour, till brown. Dress these, when done, in a pyramid, and serve a good brown sauce round them in which has been boiled a tablespoonful of chopped mushrooms, a tablespoonful of chopped shalots, and a bay-leaf; then strain into the dish. A glass of Chablis mixed in the sauce is an im- provement.37 SAVOURIES A LA MODE, Mushroom Jelly. Gelee aux Champignons. Take a couple of pounds of mushrooms. Put them in a stewpan with a gill (quarter pint) of mushroom ketchup; squeeze in a few drops of lemon, into which a little pepper has been mixed. Melt in a gill of water half an ounce of gelatine, and strain it. After the mushrooms are sufficiently soft, pass them through a sieve, add the strained gelatine, and pour the mixture into a damp mould ; when turned out, decorate with finely-chopped aspic. A few of the very small tomatoes might be parboiled to decorate the top of the jelly. This Jelly looks very pretty made in small dariole moulds and simply garnished with aspic. Mushroom Omelet. Omelette aux Champignons. This omelet is made like any of the preceding. The mushrooms can be chopped up in the egg mixture, or can be made into a puree, and inserted between the folds of the omelet after it is folded. Mushroom Scallops. Coquilles aux Champignons. Take mushrooms, peel them and soak them in lemon juice. Have ready a white sauce into which half a lemon has been strained, and add a mustard- spoonful of mushroom ketchup. Take the soaked mushrooms and stew them slowly in this sauce, and,SAVOURIES A LA MODE 38 when tender, pour them into scallop shells ; cover with bread-crumbs, place pieces of butter on the top and brown them with a red-hot salamander. Stuffed Mushrooms k la Lucullus. Champignons Farcis a la Lucullus. Wash, dry, and trim the mushrooms ; chop up . the stalks with a teaspoonful of minced parsley and tomato, and warm this mixture for a few moments in some butter. Fill the mushrooms with this mixture, place them on a buttered baking-dish and bake them about six minutes, basting them, with clarified butter. This dish may be varied by sprinkling over the tomato a little grated Parmesan cheese. Mushrooms and Tomatoes. Champignons aux Tomates. Toast a slice of bread, butter it, and cut it inta rounds two inches in diameter. Dip the tomatoes into hot water and peel them ; cut them into thick slices, and lay them on the toast; on the top of these place a peeled mushroom. These must be put into a buttered tin, and a little clarified melted butter poured over each ; then place the dish into the oven for two minutes, and baste them whilst cooking. Serve hot and quickly. Olives with Anchovies. Olives aux Anchois. Take some Spanish olives and stone them ; wash and fillet four anchovies, and mince them39 SAVOURIES A LA MODE, finely, also a quarter of a teaspoonful of minced onion, a little chopped parsley, and a grain of red pepper. Put this preparation inside each olive in place of the stone, put them on the croutons, and serve with mayonnaise sauce. Olive Custards. Talmouses d'Olives. Take one ounce of grated Parmesan cheese to one egg well beaten up, mix this over the fire till it becomes a very thick custard ; fry some neat little rounds of bread in butter, spread them very thinly with anchovy paste, and pour on each a small quantity of the custard. Stone some olives, and put one in the middle of each round. Stuffed Olives. Olives Farcies, Make small rounds of fried bread, run water- cress butter round them, here and there making a pattern. The olives must be turned—that is, peeled, as if they were pears ; fill each with sardines, lobster, or anchovies ; place alternately with these in the dish pieces of caviar on fried bread, squeeze some lemon over all, and ornament round the fried bread with run butter. For Watercress Butter, see under that head. To run butter is to squeeze it through cones or bags made on purpose, and sold at all ironmongers. Stuffed Onions. Oignons Farcis. Take a large Spanish onion, scoop out the centre, peel and blanch it ; fill the centre with force-40 SAVOURIES A LA MODE, meat, and place it in a stewpan ; cover it with slices of bacon, sprinkle with salt and sugar, and cook over ^ quick fire. When done, remove the onions, reduce the sauce and pour it over them, and serve. The forcemeat can be made of chicken, ham, parsley, and mushrooms, and some chopped suet, all finely minced together with pepper and salt to taste. Potato Ribbons. Pommes de Terre en Garniture. Wash and peel the potatoes, taking out the eyes and specks ; peel them as you would an apple, very thinly into ribbons; place them in a frying basket and fry them in boiling fat for about six minutes. Sprinkle with salt, dish them in a pyramid on a napkin. Potatoes a la Parisienne. Pommes de Terre a la Parisienne. Chop up a pound of onions very finely, and brown them in equal quantities of butter and lard. When a good colour, moisten with a quarter of a pint of stock ; add i lb. of mashed potatoes, season with a bouquet of herbs, salt, and pepper. Serve very hot on a napkin. Potatoes a la Proven9ale. Pommes de Terre a la Proven9ale. Mash two pounds of potatoes, pass them through a wire sieve, season with pepper and salt. Grate two ounces of Gruyere cheese, and pound it in the mortar with enough butter to make a paste;SAVOURIES A LA MODE. 41 add a quarter of a pint of milk and a little minced parsley. Put this into a frying-pan, stirring in the potato, and fry till of a pale brown. Dish it up high, en pyramide. Potato Scallops. Coquilles de Pommes de Terre. Mash two pounds of cold potatoes with milk and pass through sieve ; add three ounces of butter melted, two ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, pepper and salt to taste. Fill some scallop shells with this mixture and brown them in the oven. Whilst hot, glaze each over with melted butter and one ounce of grated cheese; hold the hot salamander over to brown them. Parmesan Potatoes. Pommes de Terre au Parmesan. Take some large potatoes, bake them ; cut off a round piece on the top of each. Scoop out the potato, mash il with butter, pepper, salt, and grated Parmesan cheese, and refill the skins and heat them up in the oven. Savoury Omelet. Omelette aux Fines Herbes. Break two eggs in a basin, whip them, adding pepper and salt to taste. Mince finely a small piece of shalot and a teaspoonful of parsley. Melt some butter in the omelet-pan, and when quite hot pour in the eggs, and proceed as for all other omelets.42 SAVOURIES A LA MODE. Spinach Fritters. Beignets d'Epinards. Boil spinach thoroughly, drain and mince it well ; add some grated bread, one grate of nutmeg, and a small piece of sugar. Add as much cream or yolks and whites of eggs as will make the pre- paration of the consistence of batter ; drop the batter into a frying-pan of boiling lard. When the ^ ' fritters rise, take them out, draw, and send to v>~^ table. Tomato Canapds. Canapes aux Tomates. Cut some slices of bread two and a half inches in diameter and one-eighth of an inch thick, fry them a pale colour, and spread them when cold with Parmesan butter (that is, butter and grated Parmesan cheese well pounded together). Dip small tomatoes into hot water, skin them and put one on each piece of bread, arranging some finely minced parsley around and grated Parmesan on the top of each. Tomato Jelly. Gelee aux Tomates. Take two pounds of tomatoes, half a grain of red pepper, and two shalots. Place them in a stewpan, and boil them till quite soft. Melt fifteen sheets of the thin French gelatine, and pour it into the mixture, then pass all through a sieve, and mould. Serve with chopped aspic jelly. A little grated Parmesan sprinkled over it is an improve- ment.SAVOURIES A LA MODE. 43 This savoury can be made in the same manner with one pound of mushrooms and one pound of tomatoes. Tomato Omelet. Proceed as for oyster omelet, using minced tomato instead of oysters, into which a small piece of shalot and a pinch of cayenne has been mixed. Stuffed Tomatoes. Tomates Farcies. Dip as many tomatoes as required into boiling water for a minute, peel them ; make a hole near the stalk, scoop out the centre of the tomato with an egg spoon, and place them on a buttered or oiled sheet of paper in a baking tin. Make a stuffing with sausage meat and very thin tomato sauce ; fill the tomatoes with this, sprinkle over with grated bread-crumbs, and place a piece of butter on the centre of each. Bake for ten minutes in a good oven ; dish them on fried croutons and serve quickly. Stuffed Tomatoes ct la Financifere. Tomates Farcios a la Financiere. Dip the tomatoes into boiling water, peel them and scoop out the centres with a small spoon, and place the tomatoes on a tin dish. Mix a lump of butter the size of a walnut with one ounce of flour, a little mushroom liquor, a tablespoonful of tomato sauce, a dessert-spoonful of olive oil, a tea- spoonful of chopped parsley and shalots in equal quantities, a little salt and pepper to taste ; stir all44 SAVOURIES A LA MODE. in a stewpan till quite hot and thoi'oughiy mixed. Fill each tomato with some of this stuffing, sprinkle them with grated bread-crust. Pour a few spoon- fuls of olive oil into the dish, and bake for ten or twelve minutes, and brown with a salamander. Tomatoes Stuffed au Gratin. Tomates Farcies au Gratin. Cut the centre from six tomatoes all of uniform size, and squeeze the pieces cut without breaking them ; season each with a very little salt and pepper. Mince six mushrooms, chop finely one onion, two shalots, two ounces of lean ham or tongue, and about a teaspoonful of parsley. Put all these chopped ingredients into a small stewpan with two ounces of butter, and stew well over the fire till they are thoroughly cooked, taking care not to burn them. Have some brown sauce ready, which stir into the other ingredients. Fill each tomato with some of this preparation, and sprinkle over each some bread-crumbs in which has been mixed a dessert-spoonful of grated Parmesan cheese ; put a small piece of butter on each. Place them in a moderate oven for about ten minutes, and serve quickly and hot. Tomato Timbale. Timbale a I'Andalouse. Boil half a pound of macaroni till tender but not broken, strain it and cut it into lengths which will fit a plain round mould ; line the mould with it, arranging the top by bending the macaroni in a spiral form. Fill this timbale or mould with a45 SAVOURIES A LA MODE. mixture made of one pound of tomatoes, one pound of mushrooms, and a quarter of a pound of grated Parmesan cheese, all pounded together with four ounces of butter and the yolk of an egg ; season with a teaspoonful of salt and a grain of red pepper. Put a paper round the mould, leaving two inches standing above the edge of the mould, and steam it for an hour. Turn out, and ornament it with very small tomatoes on the top, and serve white mush- room sauce round it. Minced truffles and lobster spawn rubbed through a sieve and sprinkled all over it gives it a very nice appearance. Broiled Truffles. Tmffes sous la Cendre. Wash and peel the truffles, roll each in a thin slice of bacon, season with a very little salt and pepper; cover each one with four pieces of paper which have been dipped in cold water ; bury the truffles in hot cinders and leave them for a quarter of an hour, after which remove the first two pieces of paper and serve. Salad Sauce Lucullus. Original recipe. Take a full dessert-spoonful of Swiss condensed milk, a mustard-spoonful of made mustard, the yolk of an egg, six drops of anchovy sauce, and a pinch of salt. Work all these well together, and when quite smooth add a quarter of an onion, pounded fine, which well stir in. Then pour in half a teaspoonful of Worcester sauce, half a tea-SAVOURIES A LA MODE. 46 spoonful of chilli vinegar. After blending these together, add a gill of salad oil drop by drop, beat it up well in the sauce, then pour in a teaspoonful of tarragon vinegar, drop by drop, and finally six tablespoonfuls of salad oil, drop by drop, well whisking all the time. Potato Salad. Salade au Pommes de Terre. Bake some potatoes, peel, slice, and place them in a salad bowl with two or three onions cut into quarters and two wineglassfuls of claret ; stir until thoroughly mixed, then season with salt and pepper ; add a little vinegar, and plenty of oil. Put in two or three chervil leaves minced very fine ; stir till thoroughly mixed. Potato and Truffle Salad. Salade de Pommes de Terre aux TrufFes. Bake, peel, and slice some potatoes. Cut up some truffles which have been boiled in white wine into very thin slices, and arrange them in alternate layers in a salad-bowl with the sliced potatoes; the last layer must be of truffles. Garnish with small pickled onions, fillets of anchovy, and either stoned or stuffed olives, sprinkle with salt and pepper. Mix a dressing of oil and vinegar, and pour over. Red Cabbage Salad k la Russe. Salade de Choux Rouges a la Russe. Cut up a red cabbage into very fine narrow strips, plunge for a minute into boiling salt and47 SAVOURIES A LA MODE. water, cool in cold water, drain, lay in a deep dish and sprinkle with salt and tarragon vinegar. Stir some mashed hard-boiled yolks of egg into half a tumblerful of sour cream ; season with salt, pepper, chopped chervil, and tarragon leaves. Pour over the cabbage, and garnish with a few slices of black radish. Russian Salad. Salade Russe, Chop up some cold fillets of chicken and par- tridge with carrots, turnips, and asparagus, all of which have been cooked ; take some cold boiled peas, small French beans, beetroot cut into lozenges, crayfish tails, capers, stoned olives, and fillets of anchovy ; stir all these ingredients thoroughly to- gether, and add a little caviar, a pinch of cayenne, a minced shalot, black pepper, mustard, oil, and vinegar. No particular flavour ought to predominate in this salad, therefore it requires perfect mixing. Vegetable Salad. Salade de Legumes. Boil equal quantities of carrots, peas, asparagus heads, French beans, potatoes, and half the quantity of turnips ; when done, drain carefully and place in a salad-bowl in separate groups, with a head of boiled cauliflower in the centre. Cover with a sauce made of twelve tablespoonfuls of salad oil, two of vinegar, half a teaspoonful of anchovy sauce, a little salt, pepper, an idea of cayenne, and a rub of garlic, and stir well.48 SAVOURIES A LA MODE, Winter Salad, Salade d'Hiver. Shred celery and onion very fine. Pour over it mayonnaise sauce. Stand watercress upright in the centre. Place beetroot cut in rounds all round the edge alternately with quarters of hard-boiled eggs. This salad should be served on a flat dish, and not in a salad-bowl. Anchovy Sandwiches. Tartines d'Anchois. Soak anchovies in milk, after boning them (unless they are already boned). Spread them on bread and butter, with a layer of cress. Anchovy and Egg Sandwiches. Tartines a la Chasseur. Pound anchovies and hard-boiled yolks with butter. Place between slices of bread and butter, with a layer of watercress. Caviar Sandwiches. Tartines a la Caviar. Spread caviar on bread and butter, squeeze lemon over it, and add a trifle of cayenne pepper. Chicken Sandwiches. Tartines a la Reine. Take cold chicken, cut it into very delicate thin slices, pour over it a good bechamel sauce, and make into sandwiches.SAVOURIES A LA MODE, 49 Cucumber Sandwiches. Tartines aiix Concombres, Cucumber cut in slices and dressed with either vinegar and oil or salad dressing make very exqui- site sandwiches in the summer. Curry Sandwiches. Tartines a I'lndienne. These sandwiches are made with either curried eggs or fish of any kind. Egg and Chutnee Sandwiches. Tartines a la Pondicherry. Pound hard-boiled eggs together in a mortar with a little chutnee, and make into sandwiches. These can be made with piccalili pickle instead of the chutnee. Latcore Sandwiches. Bouchees Latcore. Take three anchovies, washed and pounded, with a small piece of ham and chicken. Make a very good curry sauce, and mix all together. Stir over the fire till nearly boiling. Fry small rounds of bread, and spread mixture on them. Serve hot with a little grated cheese (mixed with butter) on the top. Heat for five minutes before sending up. ESAVOURIES A LA MODE. 50 Lobster Sandwiches. Tartines au Homard. Pound lobster with a little anchovy butter, and make into sandwiches. Shrimps and prawns may be used instead of lobster. Lobster and Egg Sandwiches. Tartines a rAmphitrion. Pound lobster, egg, and butter together with a trifle of cayenne and one or two capers, and make into sandwiches. These may be also made with shrimps or prawns. Tartines de Gibier. Ptarmigan and game sandwiches are also very appetizing sandwiches. Mushroom Sandwiches. Tartines aux Champignons. Stew the mushrooms, squeeze a little lemon over them, adding a trifle of pepper and salt, and make into sandwiches. Mushroom sandwiches may be likewise made with equal parts of mushrooms and tomatoes. Mustard and Cheese Sandwiches. Tartines a la Jardiniere. Take some Gruyere cheese, mince it finely ; add some made mustard and make into sandwiches.SAVOURIES A LA MODE. 51 Oyster Sandwiches. Tartines aiix Huitres. Take large stewing oysters, pound them in a mortar with a little cayenne and lemon juice; spread them on thin slices of brown bread and butter and cut them into shape. Parmesan and Egg Sandwiches. Tartines au Parmesan. Pound the yolks of eggs with butter and grated Parmesan and make into sandwiches. Paid de Pole Gras Sandwiches. Tartines au Pate de Foie Gras. Buy some tinned pate de foie gras, make sand- wiches of it. A small piece of aspic jelly put on the foie gras is a great improvement. Salad Sandwiches. Tartines a la Printaniere. Make a nice salad, mince it small ; add the dressing and make into sandwiches. Salmon Sandwiches. Tartines au Saumon. Cut slices of salmon and cucumber, and put them between bread and butter and roll them up in a lettuce leaf soaked in vinegar for an hour, or in salad dressing.SAVOURIES A LA MODE, 52 Sardine Sandwiches. Tartines aux Sardines Wipe and bone the sardines, squeeze a lemon over them ; place them inside the bread and butter with a layer of cress. Sardine Sandwiches h, la Mayonnaise. Bone the sardines, pound them well; add mayonnaise sauce, and place them inside the bread and butter. Tomato Sandwiches. Tartines aux Tomates. Skin the tomatoes, cut them in slices ; add a few drops of anchovy sauce and make into sandwiches. Or the tomatoes may be skinned and masked with mayonnaise sauce and made into sandwiches. They can also be made with sliced tomatoes and grated Parmesan cheese. Victoria Sandwiches. Cut slices of brown bread and butter, bone and clean sardines ; spread them on the bread and butter with some mustard and cress on the top. Cut into sandwiches.INDEX. Anchovy canapes, i Anchovies, stuffed, i Angels on horseback, 7 Artichokes, fried, 28 — globe, stuffed, 29 — Jerusalem, a I'ltalienne, 30 — a la Lyonnaise, 30 -- stewed, 28 — stewed, with essence of ham, 29 Aspic jelly, 23 Asparagus a la creme, 31 — omelet, 31 — a la Pompadour, 48 Beetroot fritters, 32 Broad beans with cream, 32 — cheese, 20 — devilled, 24 Biscuits, Russian, 24 Butter, Gascony, 27 — Montpelier, 28 Canapes, anchovy, i — a la Bismarck, 2 — caviar, 2 — fisherman, 10 — lobster, 4 — Prince of Wales, 6 — ^ la Rothschild, 24 — savoury, 11 — semolina, 27 — shrimp, 12 — tomato, 42 Cauliflower fritters, 33 — au gratin, 34 Cheese aigrettes, 19 — baked, 19 — biscuits, 20 — omelet, 20 — Ramequins, 21 — souffle, 21 — straws, 21 Chicken rolls, 24 Cod's roe, 2 Cucumber, stuffed, 34 Devilled biscuits, 24 Eggs in aspic, 16 — baked, 13 -— with brown butter, 13 — a la creme, 17 — epicure's, 14 — au gratin, 15 — Indian, 15 — and oysters scalloped, 16 — Parmesan, 17 — a la Provengale, 18 — shrimp, 16 — Swiss, 18 — tomatoes, 17, 18 Finnan haddock balls, 2 French beans, omelet of, 32 — a la poulette, 33 Fritters, beetroot, 32 — cauliflower, 33 — spinach, 4254 INDEX. Gascony butter, 27 Gratin of cauliflower, 34 — eggs, 15 — lobster, 5 — tomatoes, 44 Haddock, Finnan, balls, 2 Iced savoury souffle, 25 Indian eggs, 15 Jelly, aspic, 23 — mushroom, 37 — tomato, 42 Jerusalem artichokes a I'lta- lienne, 30 Kidney omelet, 25 — toast, 26 Kluski of cream cheese, 20 Lobster in aspic, 3 — bashaws, 3 — i la Bordelaise, 4 — canapes, 4 — creams, 5 — gratin of, 5 — - omelet of, 6 — rolls, 6 MONTPELIER butter, 28 Morels a I'Andalouse, 35 Mushroom baskets, 35 — au gratin, 36 — jelly, 37 — a la Lucullus, 38 — scallops, 37 — stuffed, 38 — and tomatoes, 38 Olive custards, 39 Olive, stuffed, 39 Onions, stuffed, 39 Omelet asparagus, 31 — cheese, 20 — French beans, 32 — a la jardiniere, 32 — kidney, 26 — mushroom, 37 — savoury, 41 — tomato, 43 Oyster omelet, 7 — scallops, 8 — souffle, 8 Potatoes a la Parisienne, 46 — a la Proven9ale, 40 — Parmesan, 41 — ribbons, 40 — salad, 46 — and truffle salad, 46 — scallops, 41 Prawns in disguise, 6 Prince of Wales' canapes, 6 Red cabbage saladalaRusse, 46 Russian biscuits, 24 — salad, 47 — tartlets, 9 Salad sauce, Lucullus, 45 — potato, 46 — Russian, 47 — vegetable, 47 — winter, 48 Sandwiches, Adelaide, 22 — anchovy, 48 — and egg, 48 — caviar, 48 — chicken, 47 — cucumber, 49 — curry, 49 — egg and chutnee, 49 — game, 50 — Latcore, 4955 INDEX, Sandwich, lobster, 50 — lobster and egg, 50 — mushroom, 50 — mustard and cheese, 50 — oyster, 50 — Parmesan and egg, 50 — pate de foie gras, 50 — salad, 51 — salmon, 51 — sardine, 52 — tomato, 52 — Victoria, 52 Sardines, dressed, 9 — eggs, 10 — a rindienne, 10 — Maitre d'Hotel, 10 — a la Piemontese, 11 Savoury canapes, 4 — omelet, 41 — rice, 20 — trifle, 12 — vermicelli, 27 Semolina canapes, 27 Scallops of egg, 16 — mushroom, 37 — potato, 41 — oyster, 8 Scallops scalloped, 12 Scrambled eggs and tomatoes, 17 Shrimp canapes, 12 — eggs, 16 — rolls, 13 — toast, 13 Souffle, cheese, 21 — oyster, 8 Spinach fritters, 42 Swiss eggs, 18 TiMBAi.o of tomatoes, 44 Tomato canapes, 42 — au gratin, 44 —' jelly, 42 — omelet, 43 — stuffed, 43 — timbalo, 44 Truffles, broiled, 45 Vegetable salad, 47 Vermicelli savoury, 27 Winter salad, 48 PRINTED BY SPOTTISWOODE AND CO., NEW-STREET SQUARE LONDONI