70 Rabbit (Tinned) Patties 34. Rice Croquettes of Chicken or Game. Ingredients.—Remains of cold fowl or game, 4 oz. rice, 1 pint stock, 11 oz. butter, | oz. flour, seasonings, egg and bread crumbs, frying-fat. Method.—Pass the meat twice through the mincing machine, or chop it very finely, then reserve it. Melt \ oz. of butter in a saucepan, add to it a teaspoonful each of finely-chopped parsley and shallot, with a little grated lemon peel and nutmeg. Let it cook gently for seven minutes, then stir in the flour, add the mince, and let it fry for about two minutes, then add one gill of flavoured stock or milk, and let it simmer gently till the stock is absorbed. In the meantime cook the rice in the stock till tender, add the remainder of the butter, and simmer till the moisture is evaporated and the rice dry. Spread on a plate. When cold divide equally, form into balls, hollow out the centre of these with the handle of a teaspoon, and fill with the mince, cover the aperture with rice, brush over with beaten egg, well sprinkle with bread crumbs, and fry in boiling deep fat to a golden brown. Remove from the fat, drain on paper, and serve at once. If many croquettes are fried at the same time, the fat will be chilled, and the croquettes will become sodden. A blue steam should rise over the pan before you attempt to fry them. 35. Rabbit (Tinned) Patties. Ingredients.—Tinned rabbit, ham, savoury herbs, 4 oz. calfs liver, seasonings, pastry. Method.—Cut up the meat, free it from jelly and fat, and mix with about a fifth of its weight in moderately fat ham or bacon. In this way savour is added, and the dryness generally noticed in rabbit obviated. Season generously with minced parsley, thyme, marjoram, lemon rind, pepper, salt, and a little grated nutmeg, ground cloves, and allspice. The addition of | lb. of calfs liver, sliced, fried, and chopped, is a great improvement; the mixture must be made moist with a little stock or beaten egg if necessary, but must not be sloppy. Use for filling patties covered with paste. 36. Turkey a la Bretonne. Ingredients.—Cold turkey, £lb. haricot beans, 3 large onions, 1 egg, 1 oz. butter, | pint stock, 1 tablespoonful flour, seasonings.