80 Beef Patties 16. Beef Olives (2). Ingredients.—Slices of cold beef, 2 slices of lean ham or bacon, 1 gill of bread crumbs, ^ gill of suet, seasonings, 2 eggs, 1 pint of good gravy. Method.—Cut cold beef into slices inch thick and about 4 inches square; make a forcemeat of the finely-chopped ham, suet, bread crumbs, sweet herbs, pepper, salt, and a very little grated nutmeg and lemon rind; bind it with yolk of egg, and pound all well together in a mortar. Lay the forcemeat on the slices, roll them round, and secure them with cotton or a small skewer; brush them over with egg, roll in fine bread crumbs, and slightly brown them in a Dutch oven, then stew them in good gravy until tender. Thicken and colour the gravy, serve the olives in it, and garnish with croutons of toasted bread. 17. Beef Patties. Ingredients.—4 oz. lean beef, thickened gravy, seasoning of allspice, pepper, and salt, pastry. Method.—Mix the chopped beef with a seasoning of powdered allspice, pepper, and salt, and moisten it with a little good gravy or water; line some greased patty pans with paste, put a portion of the paste in each, stamp out some rounds of paste, moisten the edges with water, and lightly press them on the patty. Make a small slit in the centre of each patty cover, glaze with beaten egg, decorate with two small diamonds of pastry, and bake in a moderate oven about twenty minutes, or until the paste is cooked. 18. Ragout of Beef. Ingredients.—1 oz. butter, 1 oz. flour, 1 teacupful stock or gravy, 1 teacupful boiled and chopped Spanish onion, cold roast beef, grated horse-radish, pickled gherkins. Method.—Dissolve the butter in a stewpan, stir in flour till smooth and brown, add the stock and onions, stir till thickened; add the beef cut in slices £ inch thick; cook very slowly till the meat is heated through and tender. Arrange the slices to over- lap each other, pour the sauce round; decorate with a row of horse-radish, with slices of gherkin on either side of it. Serve very hot.