116 Curried Mince Method.—Having moulded the rissoles or croquettes, mask them with well-reduced and almost cold tomato sauce; allow this to set, then cover with egg and bread crumbs. Fry in boil- ing fat. The outside should be quite crisp when fried. 7. Croustades a la Parisienne. Ingredients.—\ lb. cold meat, chicken, or game, \ oz. butter, i gill gravy or well-flavoured stock, i teaspoonful each of chopped parsley and shallot or chives, lemon peel, pepper, salt, nutmeg, croustade cases. Method.—Free the meat from skin and fat, and pass it through a mincing machine, season highly with salt, pepper, lemon peel, and a little grated nutmeg. Fry the parsley and shallot or chives in the butter, then add the seasoned meat and gravy, and gradually make very hot without actually boiling ; fry the croustades, drain carefully; fill them with the mince, cover with circles of fried bread, garnish with fried parsley, and serve immediately. 8. Curried Mince. Ingredients. — i lb. cold meat (minced), 2 oz. butter or dripping, 1 onion, 1 oz. flour, ^ oz. curry powder, salt, lemon peel. Method.—Fry the minced onion, stir in the minced meat, curry powder, and flour, add some stock, stirring until sufficiently moistened, season with salt and a strip of lemon peel; let it simmer for about one hour. Serve with boiled rice. 9. Curry Gateau. Ingredients.—f lb. cold lean meat, 6 oz. bread crumbs, 3 eggs, 4 oz. suet, 1 teaspoonful curry powder, 1 gill cream, seasonings. Method.—First chop the meat very fine, mix; shred the suet, roll it well into the bread crumbs. Stir all the dry ingredients well together with a fork, and stir the beaten eggs and cream into the meat, &c. Grease a ring mould, ornament it with slices of pickled gherkin. Press the mixture into the mould, and steam for an hour and a half, when the gateau should be firm to the touch. Let it stand a few moments before turning out. Fill the centre with well-boiled rice, and serve. If this dish is served cold, it should be brushed over with glaze, and have cold boiled vegetables dressed with salad sauce in the centre.