18 Various Adjuncts best while arranging it to stand the dish over a saucepan of hot water, so that its contents do not get chilled and unpalatable. Among plain borders and moulds for centres are rice boiled as for curry, risotto, macaroni, spaghetti, French beans, haricot beans, lentils, mashed potatoes, fried potato balls and chips, spinach, tomatoes, mushrooms, Brussel sprouts, &c. These may be relieved with a suitable garnish of chopped green parsley, capers, pickled walnuts, piccalilli, red cabbage, sliced beetroot, and tomatoes, yolk of egg passed through a wire sieve, slices and quarters of hard-boiled eggs. Poached eggs on a mound or border of spinach or potato may be garnished with minute portions of tarragon leaves, parsley, or pickles. Folded serviettes and dish-papers are an additional garnish to cold meats, patties, brawns, and other moulded and pressed i meats. Salads lend themselves to a great variety of garnish, and for | these aspic jelly is highly decorative; capers, stoned olives, f lettuce hearts, hard-boiled eggs, radishes, cucumber, paprika, and lobster coral are also suitable. Especially in summer, when salads are so welcome, cold meat is nice if cut into suitable I pieces and laid in a tasty preparation for half-an-hour or so i before serving, then garnished with a green salad. Cold meat masked with Chaudfroid sauce (white or brown) is also served with a bed of dressed salad. Various Adjuncts. The addition of macaroni is appreciated when used with cooked meats, especially with white meats, such as chicken or I veal, with which its delicate nutty flavour assimilates well; it j must be previously cooked rapidly in boiling salted water until J tender. Store Sauces, Pickles, and Chutnee. Variety of flavouring is necessary in cooking, and a supply ;| of good store sauces and pickles will be found useful. Some of 1 these are best eaten fresh, others improve by keeping. Many persons err in using a mixture of store sauces for the flavouring (a of hashed meat. Only one or two which will amalgamate and improve each other should be used for the same dish, or the j j effect will be spoilt. Sauces, such as Tomato or Worcestershire, are useful for J