115 Cornish Pasties a brisk fire until a yellow brown, add the curry powder, flour, and cocoanut, and stir constantly; add the chopped apple; gradually add the milk and stock, and stir till boiling; season to taste with pepper, salt, a pinch of sugar, and the lemon-juice; cover the pan and let simmer until the meat is quite tender; then let it get cold, and before serving add the cream. Have ready a border of boiled rice arranged neatly on a dish; dress the curry in this, and garnish with sprigs of cooked cauliflower, slices of beetroot, &c. 3. Cornish Pasties. Ingredients.—4 oz. cooked meat, 1 potato parboiled, 1 slice of onion, seasoning, short crust. Method.—Chop the meat and potato into small dice, add the minced onion, and season with salt and pepper; moisten with a tablespoonful of water. Make the crust, roll out, cut into rounds, place a spoonful of the mixture on each, wet the edges and pinch firmly together, so that the join comes on the top; place on a greased baking-tin, brush over with beaten egg, and bake in a hot oven. 4. Cornish Cutlets. Ingredients.—Slices of cold beef, mutton, or lamb, seasoning, mashed potato, egg, bread crumbs, frying-fat. Method.—Cut fairly thick slices of meat into cutlet shapes, sprinkle with oil and vinegar, chopped parsley, pepper and salt, and then allow to soak quite half-an-hour. Roll out on a board some finely-mashed potato seasoned with pepper, salt, and nut- meg; wrap each seasoned cutlet in it, shape smoothly, cover with egg and bread crumbs, and fry in hot fat; drain, and serve on a dish-paper with fried parsley. 5. Croquettes and Rissoles with Vermicelli. Ingredients.—Panada, minced meat, seasoning, egg, vermi- celli. Method.—Form the mixture of panada and well-seasoned minced meat into cones or balls, cover them with beaten raw egg, roll them in rather finely crushed vermicelli, then fry in boiling fat deep enough to cover them completely. 6. Croquettes and Rissoles au Villeroi. Ingredients.—Rissole mixture, tomato sauce, egg, bread crumbs.