17 b Flavouring and Seasoning Re-serving* Mixed Meats. In re-serving cold meat an intelligent cook will alter its appearance by a complete change, and by cutting slices into “cutlet shapes” and “fingers” will not betray that it is from a cooked joint. The mixture of remains of game and poultry with flavourless meats such as mutton and veal is an advantage, and the bones and trimmings may be added to the stock-pot, thereby giving it a very superior flavour. A few coarsely-chopped oysters (tinned will answer the pur- pose) are a great improvement to beef when served as patties, scallops, &c.; the liquor should be used in the moistening mixture (panada). Cold rashers of bacon can be chopped and used with bread crumbs and seasoning as a stuffing for tomatoes or mushrooms, or in the place of ham in rissoles. Flavouring* and Seasoning*. The principal flavouring herbs are parsley, chives, chervil, tarragon, thyme, marjoram, and lamb-mint. These are all nicest when fresh, and should be cultivated in the garden of every house in which good cooking is expected. Onions, shallots, and the leaves (green or dried) of the sweet bay tree, freshly ground pepper, fine salt, freshly grated nutmeg, pounded mace, grated lemon peel, and strained lemon-juice are indispensable adjuncts as flavourings. There are many others which are in daily use amongst those who study the art of good cooking, and a cultivated taste will appreciate their value. Garlic is looked upon with horror by many English people, but if a pan or salad bowl is rubbed with a cut bulb, or the juice dropped on a piece of bread and placed in the salad, the flavour of “rank garlic” will not be detected, but the juice will accentuate and pleasantly mingle other seasonings. Garnishing*. The ornamental bordering or centres and garnishing of salads and made-dishes must be a decided feature, and should offer a pleasing contrast to the interior of the dish ; a plain, unpretending, and perhaps uninviting dish may thus be easily made ornamental. Should the border or garnish be intended for a hot dish, it is