92 Hashed Mutton a la Franchise The addition of a little finely-chopped parsley is a great improvement. If there is no stock for the sauce, water can be used with a teaspoonful of meat extract, but some vegetables must be boiled in it to give it the necessary flavour. A nice accompaniment to hashed mutton is a border of mashed potatoes, boiled macaroni, or rice; but when this dish is really well made, it is best to serve it as simply as possible, so as to appreciate its good sauce and the tenderness of the meat. 22. Hashed Mutton a la Franqaise. Ingredients.—2 lb. cold mutton, f pint rich brown sauce, \ lb. prunes, 2 oz. preserved cherries, \ lb. Patna rice, seasoning. Method.—Cut the meat into nice pieces; boil the rice in plenty of water; when cooked, drain and let dry ; heat the sauce, put in the meat, and let simmer very gently; add the prunes, previously stewed and stoned, the cherries, and rice, season with pepper, salt, and paprika, and when quite hot, serve. 23. Hashed Mutton with Walnut Pickle. Ingredients.—Underdone boiled leg of mutton, 1 onion, 1 oz. butter, 1 oz. flour, f pint brown stock, walnut pickle. Method.—Remove all fat and gristle from nice slices of the mutton. Fry a chopped large onion, stir in the flour, add stock, pepper, and salt, stir till boiling, put into a gourmet boiler, and let stew one hour. Then add the meat, some walnut pickle chopped small, and let it simmer another hour. Serve with sippets of toasted or fried bread round. 24. Mutton Hashed a l’lndienne. Ingredients.—Slices of cold mutton, 1 large onion, 2 oz. butter, 1 dessertspoonful curry paste or curry powder, 1 dessert- spoonful of chutnee, 1 dessertspoonful of flour, \ pint stock, parsley, boiled rice or mashed potato. Method.—Cut some slices from a cold roast leg or shoulder of mutton, free them from skin, and reserve on a plate; chop a large onion finely, and fry it in clarified butter with a teaspoonful of minced parsley. When of a light brown hue, add a large dessertspoonful of curry paste or curry powder, half a pint of either stock or gravy, and a dessertspoonful of mild chutnee ; make all very hot, then thicken with a little flour and butter