91 Hashed Mutton serve with the following sauce: Dissolve one dessertspoonful of meat extract in three-quarters of a pint of boiling water; fry one ounce of butter with one tablespoonful of fine flour for six minutes, add the hot liquid, season with salt, and the last instant before serving add one teaspoonful of capers, finely chopped, and one teaspoonful of minced parsley. 20. Hash Pie. Ingredients.—i lb. cold mashed potato, ^ oz. butter, i tea- spoonful of milk, i egg, chopped cold mutton, 2 oz. bread crumbs, seasonings. Method.—Warm a pound of cold mashed potato with a little milk and butter, add a few tablespoonfuls of chopped meat, a beaten egg, pepper and salt to taste. Mould this on a buttered plate to any shape desired, sprinkle with a handful of dry bread crumbs, and bake for a quarter of an hour, or until hot throughout. 21. Hashed Mutton. Ingredients.—Cold mutton, 1 oz. butter or mutton dripping, 1 oz. flour, | pint stock or mutton gravy, seasonings, sauce, colourings. Method.—Fry a finely-chopped shallot or onion in butter till a golden colour, without burning it, add the flour, and let gently cook for five minutes; then add the stock, which should be well flavoured with vegetables ; if it is not, add some minced carrot, celery, and onion, and stir till boiling. Add two cloves, four tablespoonfuls of tomato puree, some Worcestershire sauce, mushroom or walnut ketchup, according to taste and conveni- ence; let the sauce boil fast to reduce it, then strain into a shallow stewpan and put aside to get cold. In the meantime cut from the leg of mutton some neat slices not too small, letting them be all as much as possible of the same size, and remove every particle of skin, fat, gristle, or burned portion. When the sauce is cold, lay in it the pieces of mutton, cover up the saucepan, and in about an hour’s time put it at the corner of the stove, warming the meat very, very gradually. If the sauce boils, the meat will be tough. Directly it has got thoroughly hot it is ready to be dished up, with the sauce poured over it; and it should be surrounded with sippets of bread, not toasted, but fried a golden colour.