Med K10316 oman mow ;ction on RVIRTTES. ome Notes. Cloth, Price as., post free Is. 2d. Some of the numerous subjects dwelt upon in tliis interesting handbook are :— To remove acid stains—Uses of alum— To whiten arms and neck—First food for babies—How to feed babies—The tem- perature of baths etc.—Boiled beef—Bees’ and wasps’ stings—To destroy beetles— How to keep birds in cages—To restore black dresses—Blistered feet—To remove flat taste from boiled water—To soften and waterproof boots and shoes—To make brilliantine—Tips about butter—Adminis- tering castor oil — To clean smoked ceilings—Easily-made cement—Chapped hands and lips—Chilblains—Tips concern- ing children’s health, etc.—To extinguish chimneys on fire, etc.—To economise coal —Remedy for cold feet—Constipation—To cool a room—Coughs—Cream—To test damp beds—Diarrhoea—Colours and the dyes they will take—Earache—Hints about eggs—The eyes—To wash fine lace—Hints about fish — To keep flowers fresh — Garnishes—To remove grease, etc. Pearson’s Dream Book Giving the Interpretation of Dreams by Magic Ciphers, by the Square of Fate, by a Table of Dreams, according to Days, etc., etc. By Professor P. R. S. FOLI. Author of " Handwriting as an Index to Character,” “ The Fortune Teller,” etc. Crown 8vo, Cloth, Price Is., post free Is. 2d. Some of the subjects dwelt upon in this interesting book are :— Dreams and their Mystic Reality—They are our Sleeping Thoughts—Distinction Between Real and Idle Dreams—Wonders of Dreamland—Historic Evidence of the Uses and Interpretations of Dreams— Greek, Roman, Gallic, Indian, and Medieval, and Modern Views—Rapidity of Dreams—Doubtful Theories—Inspiring Power of Dreams — Some Dreams are Valuable, some Vain—Predisposing Causes —Dreams within Dreams—Somnambulists — Divisions of Dreams—The Dream Proper — The Oracle—The Warning—Instances of these—The Interpretation of Dreams by Magic Ciphers—The Magic Square of Fate —A Table of Dreams according to their Days—A List of Dreams, Subjects, and what they indicate alphabetically arranged —Omens, etc. The Fortune Teller By Professor P. R. S. FOLI. CrownSvo, Cloili, Price la., post free Is. 2d. Some of the subjects in this interesting book are:— Augury by Birds—What Birds Foretell —Astrology—Gipsy Fortune-tellers—Anti- quity of Card Reading—Charms—Christ- mas Customs—Facts about and Instances of Clairvovance —Crystal Gazing — The Crystal Globe—Three Kinds of Vision- Magnetic Precious Stones—Divination by a Wedding Ring, by Dominoes, by Palmis- try, by Rods, Teacups, and by the Wheel of Fortune—The Divining Rod—Odds and Ends of Omens—Advice and Hints for Beginners in Fortune-telling—Gipsies — Hallowe’en Charms—Lucky Stars — Mesmerism Supersedes Witchcraft—Lines on the Hand in Palmistry — Precious Stones and their Meanings—The Koh-i- noor—Psychometry—Rings and Bridecake —The Voice of Rings—Wedding Rings— Teacup Fortune-telling—When to Expect a Visitor—Picking up Horseshoes—Good and Bad Luck—Quaint Ceremonie*—Snap- dragon, etc,, etc. & & Consult the Oracle 0rXJ:ai Third Impression. Crown 8vo, Cloth, Price Is., post free Is. 2d. Some of the subjects dwelt upon in this excellent book are :— Omens, charms, and spells for lovers— Mystery about plants—The fortunes of little people—Certain sure for adder’s bite — Something important about dogs— Character judged by the hands and fingers— How to cure anaemia—Lucky and unlucky numbers—Omens connected with apple trees—Fortunes told by cards —Baptism as it should be—Cupid at work all the year round—Beckoning to ships, unlucky—Getting out of bed backwards, unlucky—What we may learn from bees —Lucky days of birth—Married life began as it should be—Bleeding at the nose — Unlucky breakages—How to obtain a good breeze—How to have money plentiful in every one's pocket—Hints to bridegrooms and bridesmaids—The sneeze of a black cat—Feathered prophets of good and evil —Children on board ship—Proper days for putting on new clothes—Lucky coins —Rocking the cradle—Howto cure cramp —Fortunes read in the palm of the hand— Sign of the cross—Witchcraft in the dairy —Deaths of great men—Notes on dogs— Singing in the ears—The influence of the evil eye—What to do with egg-shells, etc.,etc. To be had of all Booksellers, or of C Arthur Pearson, Ltd., 17, Henrietta Street, London, W.C.