82 Sirloin of Beef, to rewarm 22. Rechauffe of Salt Beef. Ingredients.—Slices of cold boiled beef, mashed potatoes, a little cream or butter, piccalilli pickle. Method.—Cut large and very thin slices of cold silver side of beef; pour out on a dish some of the sauce or vinegar of the piccalilli, adding a little plain vinegar to make it thinner. Dip the slices of beef into it, flour them and lay them on a dish; pour a gill of water over, and warm them in the oven or before the fire; mash some potatoes with a little cream or butter, spread them smoothly on a dish, place the slices when hot on it, and serve. 23. Sirloin of Beef, to rewarm. Ingredients.—Underdone sirloin of beef, dripping, gravy. Method.—Dredge the cut surface with flour, wrap the joint in paper well spread with beef-dripping, let it cook in a very moderate oven till hot through, then remove the paper, dish, pour gravy round, and garnish with horse-radish and squares of Yorkshire pudding. 24. Slices of Beef, to rewarm. Place the slices on a very hot dish, heat some well-flavoured gravy almost to boiling, pour it over the meat, cover and place in the oven for a few minutes, then serve; garnish with tufts of horse-radish sauce and squares of Yorkshire pudding. 25. Bubble and Squeak. Ingredients.—Cold boiled beef, boiled cabbage, beef-dripping. Method.—Cut thick slices of fat and lean corned beef, fry them in dripping, set aside to keep warm; have ready a boiled white cabbage, drained and chopped; fry it in the dripping, season plentifully, place on a hot dish, arrange alternate slices of fat and lean beef round; serve very hot. Hand brown or mustard sauce in a tureen. 26. Curry Puff. Ingredients.—\ lb. underdone fillet of beef, curry powder, i onion, seasoning, puff paste, frying-fat. Method.—Pass the beef through the mincing machine; make a seasoning of the onion chopped very finely, fry it in butter, add a tablespoonful curry powder, four ground cloves, three pounded cardamom seeds, one small clove garlic chopped very