120 Russian Kromeskies cold form it into cutlet shapes. Dip these in beaten raw egg, cover them with bread crumbs, press them on lightly with a broad-bladed knife ; have ready some boiling fat heated till a blue steam rises from its surface, fry the cutlets in this; drain them on paper, and serve them in a circle on a little mashed potato or spinach. Put fried parsley in the centre, and pour some good sauce or gravy round. 20. Russian Kromeskies. Ingredients.—Streaky bacon, minced cold meat, batter, frying- fat, parsley. Method.—Cut some very thin slices of streaky bacon about one inch and a half broad by two inches long. Lay the slices flat, and place a little seasoned minced meat moistened with thickened rich white or brown sauce on each. Roll up the bacon tightly, taking care that the mince does not escape, and put aside in a cool place. To cook, flour each roll, dip into batter, and fry a golden brown. Drain very dry. Pile fried parsley in the centre of the dish, put the kromeskies round it, and serve. 21. Savoury Meat and Macaroni. Ingredients.—About i| lb. cold meat, f pint piquante sauce, ^ lb. macaroni. Method.—Make the piquante sauce as directed, let it get cool, then put in the thin slices of meat and let it very gradually warm through; bring it almost to boiling point before serving. Arrange a border of boiled macaroni round the dish, place the meat in the centre with the sauce, and garnish with pickled walnuts. 22. Tomato Pilaff. Ingredients.—Cold meat, 3 oz. Patna rice, 2 tablespoonfuls tomato puree or sauce, oz. butter, seasonings. Method.—Wash the rice, boil with rather more than half a pint of water, one tablespoonful tomato puree or sauce, salt and pepper to taste, until the rice is tender and the grains are separate; drain if necessary, but there should not be any superfluous liquid. Boil up the butter, stir in the rice, and let it simmer by side of stove for fifteen minutes. Any scraps of poultry or meat lightly fried in butter, just covered with stock and a spoonful of tomato puree or sauce, pepper and salt, and previously simmered for three hours in a gourmet boiler, may now be placed in the centre of the dish, and the rice served round it.