Minced Veal 19. Veal and Ham Cake. Ingredients.—Cooked veal, ham, jellied stock, seasonings. Method.—Take any remains of cold underdone veal, with an equal proportion of fat and lean ham, also any remains of tongue or sweetbreads, chop coarsely, season with pepper, salt, and powdered mace. Press into a clean round cake tin, fill up with good strong stock, and bake about three-quarters of an hour in a moderate oven. When cold, turn out and serve garnished with parsley and sliced beetroot. 20. Veal and Ham (Minced) with Savoury Custard. Ingredients.—i lb. minced veal and ham, ^ pint brown sauce, i egg, i teaspoonful meat essence, i gill water, seasoning. Method.—Mix the meat with well-flavoured brown sauce and place in a buttered pie dish; mix the beaten egg with the meat essence dissolved in water, flavour with salt and pepper, and bake in a moderate oven till set. A larger amount of savoury custard is an improvement. 21. Minced Veal. Ingredients.—Cooked veal, i oz. butter, \ oz. flour, \ pint veal broth. Method.—Mince the veal, but not too finely; put the bones and trimmings into a saucepan, cover with water, add some bacon rinds or a slice of ham, an onion, parsley and thyme, lemon rind, and blade of mace. Let simmer for an hour at least; strain, thicken half a pint of this with butter and flour, season to taste, boil it well; let cool a little, add the minced veal and a little cream, and gradually bring almost to boiling point. Place in an entree or oval vegetable dish, garnish with sippets, slices of lemon, and rolls of bacon; and, if liked, place poached eggs on the mince. 22. Minced Veal with Tomatoes. Ingredients.—i lb. cold roast veal, bread crumbs, tomatoes, shallot, seasonings, i wineglass sherry, mushrooms, parsley. Method.—Remove all skin and fat, and mince the veal, season highly with pepper and salt, grated lemon rind, nutmeg, and a little chopped parsley, mix well. Sprinkle the bottom of a well- buttered fireproof china dish with bread crumbs, put a layer of io5