119 Minced Meat meat and suet with half a teaspoonful curry powder, quarter a tea- spoonful minced mixed herbs, pepper and salt to taste; moisten with a beaten egg and a little stock or milk. Put the mixture into the mould, cover with a buttered paper, stand it in a pan of boiling water, and steam for about one hour. Serve with rich brown sauce. 17. Minced Meat. Ingredients.—\ lb. cold meat, i shallot, i oz. dripping or butter, i oz. flour, \ pint stock, i carrot, i oz. fried bread crumbs. Method.—Heat the dripping in a saucepan, fry the chopped shallot a good brown, add the flour and fry it also, then moisten with the stock and stir till it boils. Add the minced meat, grated carrot, and browned bread crumbs to the liquid; season with salt, pepper, and Worcestershire sauce, and let it simmer for half- an-hour. Serve within a border of cooked vegetables. 18. Potato Pie. Ingredients.—i lb. cold mutton, lamb, or beef, i onion, i oz. butter or dripping, i oz. flour, i| gill stock, seasonings, mashed potato. Method.—Remove all dark parts, skin, and fat, and pass the meat through a mincing machine; fry the very finely chopped onion ; when a nice brown, not burnt, moisten with the stock, stir till boiling; let simmer until the onion is quite tender, mix with the meat, season with pepper, salt, Worcestershire sauce, or any seasoning, such as chopped parsley and herbs. Place in a deep pie dish; have ready some mashed potato, make a border of it round the edge of the dish, place the remainder in the centre of the meat, and form it with a knife or spoon to resemble a pie. Dissolve some butter in a spoon and lightly oil the potato. Bake until brown in the oven. Serve in the same dish on a dish-paper. 19. Rice Cutlets. Ingredients.—£ lb. cold meat, lb. rice, f pint good stock or gravy, \ oz. butter, seasonings, egg, and bread crumbs. Method.—Wash the rice, pick out all discoloured grains, put it in a stewpan with the stock and butter, and let it boil gently for about three-quarters of an hour; then season to taste with pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg, adding also the finely-chopped cold meat, and, if liked, a little finely-chopped onion or shallot, thyme, and parsley. Spread the mixture on a plate, and when