64 Chicken and Mushroom Cutlets chopped shallot or chives; cover with shred lettuce leaves, and mask the cream roughly over the whole. Serve at once, or leave on ice till required. 15. Chicken Mould (Cold). Ingredients.—i lb. cold chicken, i gill jellied stock or gravy, i small onion or shallot, 2 eggs, parsley. Method.—Mince the cold chicken, and mix with one tea- spoonful of minced onion or shallot, two teaspoonfuls of parsley, salt, cayenne, and pepper to taste, also a few grains of grated nut- meg. Moisten with the stock, and, if possible, add two beaten eggs ; press into a plain mould, and steam one hour. The mould must be covered with buttered paper. When cold, turn out, dish, and garnish with salad. 16. Chicken and Mushroom Cutlets. Ingredients.—f lb. mushrooms, cold chicken, seasonings, 2 oz. butter, 2 oz. flour, \ pint white stock or milk, 1 yolk of egg, 1 whole egg, bread crumbs, frying-fat. Method.—Clean and chop the mushrooms; cut the meat from a cold chicken into small cutlets, cover with egg and bread crumbs, and put aside. Season the mushrooms with salt, chopped shallots, parsley, lemon rind, nutmeg, and white pepper. Dissolve the butter and flour in a saucepan, let cook gently, add the stock or milk, and stir till boiling; add the mushrooms, &c., and cook slowly for twenty minutes, and season to taste; then remove from the fire and stir in the well-beaten yolk of one or two eggs, heat without actually boiling, spread on a plate, and let get cold. Divide and mould into cutlets, cover with egg and crumbs, fry in boiling deep fat, drain; fry the chicken cutlets in the same way, serve each on a mushroom cutlet, garnish, and serve immediately. 17. Chicken Paprika a la Viennoise. Ingredients.—Remains of cold chicken or veal, 3 large onions, paprika, 2 oz. butter, i| gill new milk, boiled rice. Method.—Cut the remains of cold chicken into neat pieces, after freeing it from bones and skin; reserve them. Dissolve the butter in a stewpan; as soon as it oils add the peeled and sliced onions seasoned with paprika (or Hungarian red pepper); cook slowly, and as soon as tender, but not brown, rub them through a