Casserole of Minced Veal season to taste. A little chopped lean ham will be an improve- ment. Have ready a casserole of rice or some hot fried crou- stades, and fill them with the mixture; garnish nicely, and serve at once. 7. Sweetbreads (Tinned) in Brown Sauce. Ingredients.—i lb. tin of sweetbreads, i pint good brown sauce. Method.—Put the sliced sweetbreads in a stewpan with the brown sauce, let them stew gently for half-an-hour at the side of the stove; arrange the slices neatly on a hot dish, thicken the sauce if necessary, season to taste, and pour it over them. Serve garnished with croutons. 8. Casserole of Minced Veal. Ingredients.—Remains of a joint of roast veal, cooked ham, i pint veal stock or milk and water, i oz. butter, i oz. flour, seasonings. Method.—Remove all skin, fat, and dark part from the veal, chop it finely with a knife, and, if convenient, add ^ lb. chopped lean ham to i lb. minced veal; blend the butter and flour in a saucepan, add the liquid, and stir till boiling; season with white pepper, salt, cayenne, lemon-juice, and grated peel. Stir in the meat, add a few drops of tarragon vinegar or a little grated nutmeg, and let all warm through very gently for half-an-hour (do not allow it to boil); have a ring of mashed potato on a hot dish, brown it in the oven, put the veal in the centre, and garnish with forcemeat balls or fried rolled rashers of bacon and fried sippets of bread. 9. Veal Cannelon a la Royale. Ingredients.—i lb. cold roast veal, 6 oz. cooked fat and lean ham, i teaspoonful chopped parsley, \ teaspoonful chopped shallot, 2 eggs, pepper, salt, lemon rind, sauce. Method.—Remove all skin and fat from the veal, pass it and the ham through the mincing machine, and mix; season with the parsley, shallot, pepper, salt, grated lemon rind and nutmeg, and stir in two well-beaten eggs. Shape into a roll, wrap in a piece of well-greased white paper, and bake or steam for half-an-hour; carefully remove the paper, place on a hot dish, and serve with Portugaise sauce. ioi