102 Cold Curry of Veal 10. Chaudfroid of Veal. Ingredients.—7 slices of cold veal, ^ pint white sauce, \ gill cream, | oz. gelatine, salad. Method.—Cut thick slices of cold veal, and trim them all to the same size and shape; make half a pint of well-flavoured white sauce, add the cream, dissolve the gelatine in the sauce, then strain through a pointed strainer into a basin. With a skewer dip each slice in the sauce, and place on a drainer; keep the remainder of the sauce warm until the cutlets are cold and the sauce firm, so that if not quite covered they can be redipped. Arrange a shredded salad on a dish, place the cutlets around, and garnish with sliced tomatoes or chopped aspic jelly. 11. Cold Curry of Veal, &e. Ingredients.—1 lb. lean veal, rabbit, pork, or chicken free from bone and gristle, 2 oz. butter, 2 tablespoonfuls of curry powder, 1 of desiccated cocoanut, 1 of chopped apple, 1 onion, 1 tablespoon- ful of flour, \ pint white stock, \ pint milk, \ gill cream, seasoning. Method.—Cut the meat into large dice, fry the chopped onion in the butter, add the meat, and cook briskly till golden brown; stir in the curry powder, flour, and cocoanut, then the apple. Gradually add the stock and milk, and stir till boiling; season to taste with lemon-juice, salt, pepper, and caster sugar; simmer till tender. When cold, add the cream. Arrange a border of boiled rice on a dish, place the curry in the centre, and garnish with slices of cooked vegetables or sprigs of cauliflower. 12. Fillet of Veal Stewed with Peas. Ingredients.—Remains of cold fillet of veal, 1 pint shelled green peas, 2 or 3 onions, 6 young carrots or 1 winter carrot, 2 oz. dripping or butter, bunch of herbs, 2 oz. flour, stock or water, seasonings. Method.—Place some skewers in the fillet to keep it in good shape; melt the butter or dripping, fry the sliced onions and carrots in it, stir in the flour, and add a full pint of stock or water, with any gravy left over from the roast joint, and the herbs. Boil the sauce for ten minutes, season it to taste, let it cool, then add the joint, and let it slowly warm through by the side of the fire; colour the sauce with caramel colouring. Have ready the boiled peas, dish the meat, put the peas into the sauce, then put all the