Calf’s Head Pie 3. Hashed Calf’s Head. Ingredients.—Slices of boiled calf’s head, f pint liquor the head was boiled in, flavourings. Method.—Heat and well flavour the stock with mace, lemon peel, herbs, and vegetables; strain and thicken it, adding a flavouring of sherry, mushroom ketchup, salt, and cayenne. Let it cool, then put in some slices of the head, and let it gradually warm through, allowing it to come to the boil for a minute before serving. Garnish with fried forcemeat balls and rolled bacon. 4. Calf’s Head Pie. Ingredients.—Remains of cooked calf’s head, cooked ham or tongue, eggs, seasoning, pastry. Method.—Hard boil four eggs and cut into slices. Grease a pie dish, ornament the bottom of it with the eggs, then put in slices of the calf’s head, next a layer of chopped ham or tongue, well seasoned with chopped parsley, shallot or chives, herbs, pepper, salt, and lemon-juice. When the dish is full, pour in a cupful of the broth freed from fat, in which the head was cooked, mixed with gelatine powder. Cover with a good pie-crust and ornament it. Bake in a steady oven, and serve when cold. 5. Calf’s Head a la Poulette. Ingredients.—Slices of calf’s head, i oz. butter, i oz. flour, \ pint stock, milk, or water, seasonings, parsley. Method.—Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the flour, and stir over the fire for a short time without letting it take colour, add half a pint of the liquor the head was boiled in, stir till boiling, whiten with a spoonful of cream. Place the meat in the sauce, and let it gradually warm through, add a spoonful of cream and a tablespoonful of finely-chopped parsley, with seasoning of salt and white pepper. Serve garnished with slices of lemon and fried rolls of bacon. 6. Rdchauffd of Sweetbreads. Ingredients.—Remains of a dish of cooked sweetbreads, mushrooms, sauce, rice casserole or croflstades. Method.—Cut the sweetbreads into slices, then into ^-inch dice, warm them into any sauce suitable to that in which they were previously served, adding the chopped mushrooms, and ioo