39 Puffed Potatoes into shape with a broad-bladed knife, make a pattern on it with the back of the knife, or score it with a fork; put the dish into a hot oven till the surface is brown. 16. Puffed Potatoes (Pommes de Terre Soufflees). The so-called Dutch or Holland potatoes are best for this dish, but any large sound kidney potatoes should, when correctly treated, produce satisfactory results. Method.—Peel rather thickly, trim into oval shapes, and cut lengthways into slices T3F inch thick. Soak in cold water for about half-an-hour. Heat a pan half full of clarified beef suet to about 260°, have the potato slices well drained on a cloth, plunge them into the fat, shake the pan gently while they cook, until soft, but not coloured; drain them on a sieve, heat the fat until almost smoking hot, plunge in the slices, toss them to and fro, remove any that do not puff up. Again drain the potatoes and reheat the fat a third time; when very puffed finish frying the potatoes. Drain, sprinkle with fine salt, and dish up. 17. Potatoes, Slices and Ribbons, Fried. For these the secret is to pare and slice them thinly, rinse them in cold water, and dry them in the folds of a cloth; put them into boiling fat when they are put on to cook. Cover the pan for a minute or two to prevent the escape of steam; this will lower the heat of the fat, and let them get light and mealy inside; then uncover the pan, heat the fat quickly, turn the slices to prevent them being scorched, and when crisp turn them on to kitchen paper, sprinkle them with pepper and salt, and serve very hot. 18. Purde of Artichokes. Ingredients.—2 to 3 lb. Jerusalem artichokes, milk, 1 onion, 1 oz. butter, pepper, salt, grated nutmeg. Method.—Peel, wash and slice the artichokes in the usual manner; place in a saucepan with a peeled onion; just cover with milk% Then cook slowly till quite tender, by which time the milk should be absorbed. Put through a fine wire sieve, return to a clean saucepan, add the butter and seasonings to taste; make very hot, pile in the centre of a hot dish, and use as directed, or garnish with fried croutons and serve as a vegetable entree. Puree of Parsnips or Turnips.—Prepare as for Puree of Arti- chokes, and serve in a similar style.