14 General Hints well skimmed when the liquor first boils up, and strained when completed, a valuable stock or foundation will thus be made, which will prove useful in recooking meat at little trouble or cost. General Hints. A person of average intelligence can easily learn how to make a great variety of dishes from the remains of cooked joints, pro- vided she understands the arts of broiling, frying, and making simple savoury sauces, and, above all, is careful never to allow previously cooked meat to reach the heat of boiling water (212° F.), for this will immediately render it hard, unpalatable, and indigestible. If prepared with care and well seasoned, recooked meat can be made almost equal to fresh; so that instead of considering it an economy to serve joints cold day after day, the thrifty house- wife can see that a portion of the cold meat is recooked in a savoury sauce or thickened gravy. This will be advantageous, as more vegetables and bread, or other farinaceous food, will be eaten with less of the meat, which is generally the costly part of a dinner. A border of boiled rice, macaroni, mashed potatoes, fried croutons, toasted sippets, &c., is an improvement to many made- dishes ; and attention should always be given to neat serving and garnishing, without which no dish should ever be sent to table. The Use of Scraps. Though large joints which cannot be consumed in less than several meals are not desirable, it is almost necessary that more food should be provided for a meal than is likely to be abso- lutely required, otherwise there may not be sufficient if chance guests arrive, which would be embarrassing. These remnants from dishes of variously cooked meats may be turned into very nice additions to the breakfast or high tea table, or for simple entrees. The addition of remnants of ham, tongue, or boiled bacon will be found an immense help in making nice little dishes from scraps of cooked food, and by blending them with thickened sauce or panada we can produce something dainty and tasty which is worth concocting, and altogether different from the ill- served meals of those who will not take the trouble to turn every- thing to the best advantage.