68 Game (Minced) with Kidneys just tender; then remove the onion and drain the rice in a sieve. Put the butter in a stevvpan • when dissolved, fry the minced shallots in it, add the rice, shake continuously, and stir the rice lightly with a fork, to prevent burning, until it is a light golden brown; add some nice fillets of chicken, tongue, ham, or pheasant previously made hot on a buttered dish in the oven, also a good spoonful of gravy or tomato sauce. Toss well together, place on a hot entree dish, sprinkle thickly with grated cheese, and place in a hot oven till brown, then serve very hot. 28. Game (Minced) with Kidneys. Ingredients.—Remains of cold roast game (minced), \ oz. butter, seasonings, thickened gravy, kidneys, buttered toast. Method.—Season with cayenne, salt, grated nutmeg, and lemon peel, chopped shallot or chives, and parsley. Melt a small piece of butter in a saucepan, add then mince and enough thickened gravy to moisten it, let it cook very gently. Meanwhile cut each in two, skin, and broil sufficient sheep’s kidneys, pro- bably three or four; dish on buttered toast, placing the hot mince in the centre, serve at once, garnished with sprigs of watercress. 29. Game Patties. Ingredients.—\ lb. cooked game, 4 oz. lean ham, 2 oz. butter, 2 shallots, 1 oz. flour, 1 gill good stock, pastry. Method.—Stamp out some rounds of puff paste or short crust, and line some small moulds, fill with dried rice and bake in a hot oven; take out the rice and put the cases on a sieve. Meanwhile fry the finely-chopped shallots in butter, stir in the flour, let cook a few minutes, then add the stock and stir till boiled, add the chopped game and ham, season to taste; then fill the cases and bake for five minutes. Little rounds of pastry (baked) may be used as lids, or the tops may be decorated in any way preferred. Serve on a dish- paper, nicely garnished with parsley. 30. Hashed Goose. Ingredients.—Remains of cold goose, 2 onions, 1^ oz. butter, 1 oz. flour, 1 pint stock, 2 tablespoonfuls of ketchup, 1 wine- glassful of cooking port, salt, and pepper. Method.—Cut off about the best slices and pieces, break up the bones and carcase, cover with cold water or stock, and