117 Honeycomb Timbale 10. Dresden Cassolettes. Ingredients.—Bread patty-cases, remains of cold meat, poultry, fish, or game, sauce, garnish. Method.—Cut thick slices of stale bread with a round cutter, scoop out the interior and leave the cases hollow; fry in deep boiling fat till golden brown, drain, and whilst hot fill with a patty mixture; the lids are made from small rounds of fried bread seasoned. Dish on a paper or serviette, and serve hot. The patty mixture may be made of i oz. butter, i oz. flour, i gill stock or milk, highly seasoned, boiled till smooth and thick ; then remove from the fire and stir in minced meat, poultry, game, or flaked fish or scalded oysters. Any rich savoury sauce left over from previous cooking may thus be utilised. 11. Gateau of Meat. Ingredients.—\ lb. cold meat, 2 oz. bread crumbs, 2 yolks and 1 white of egg, 2 tablespoonfuls of gravy, seasonings. Method.—Remove all gristle and skin from the meat, put it into a bowl with the seasonings of chopped parsley, shallot, pepper, and salt; add the bread crumbs, mix well, then add the well-beaten eggs and gravy. Well grease a cake tin, sprinkle it thickly with browned bread crumbs, press the mixture into it; place in a moderate oven, and bake for about three-quarters of an hour, until quite firm, then turn out on a dish and serve with thickened brown gravy or a savoury sauce. 12. Honeycomb Timbale. Ingredients.—3 oz. large straight macaroni, lb. remains of cold meat or chicken, 2 oz. lean ham, £ pint thick white sauce, 2 eggs. Method.—Boil the macaroni in salted water until tender; when cold cut it into -|-inch lengths, making rings; butter a dome-shaped mould or plain basin, and cover it with rings, fill with the minced chicken and ham previously mixed with hot white sauce, seasonings, and two or three eggs. Unless eggs are used the mixture will not hold in shape when cooked. Cover with greased paper, place the mould in a pan of hot water, and poach in a moderate oven for about three-quarters of an hour. Turn out, and serve with gravy.