Blanquette of Turkey Method.—Soak the beans in cold water overnight; drain, put into a saucepan with a whole onion, and boil for two hours or till tender; cut the turkey meat into neat cutlets, cover them with egg and bread crumbs, and fry them nicely; chop two onions, fry them in the butter with a little sugar and salt till a rich brown, but not burnt; add two tabiespoonfuls of stock, and let them stew till tender; then stir in a tablespoonful of flour and the remainder of the stock, stir till boiling, then season to taste; add the drained beans, arrange on a dish, and place the cutlets round it. 37. Blanquette of Turkey. Ingredients.—Remains of cold turkey, i slice lean bacon, i onion, i sprig parsley, i gill cream, the yolk of an egg, seasonings. Method.—Cut the flesh off the carcase of a roast turkey, break up the bones, put them in a stewpan with a little lean bacon, an onion, and a sprig of parsley. Cover with water and boil for an hour. Strain, and make some white sauce with the liquor. Now put the flesh of the bird into a stewpan, season with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. Just cover it with the sauce and warm it gradually, but not let it boil. When hot, stir in a gill of cream which has been beaten up with the yolk of an egg, and as soon as it begins to thicken turn it on to a hot dish. Decorate with fried bread cut in kite shapes, a few gherkins cut in strips, some button mushrooms, and small rounds of ham and tongue. 38. Boudins of Turkey. Ingredients.—i lb. cold turkey, \ lb. cooked tongue or ham, i onion or shallot, i oz. butter, i oz. flour, i pint stock, 3 eggs, bread crumbs, seasonings. Method.—Mince the cold turkey and ham or tongue. Break up the bones and make some stock with them; strain. Put a minced onion or shallot in a small pan with a pat of butter, and stir till of a light brown. Add a tablespoonful of flour, one pint of the stock, and the minced meat. Boil for a few minutes. Season with salt, pepper, and a pinch of sugar. Beat up the yolks ol two eggs, stir them quickly, then turn the mixture on to a dish, and leave till cold. Shape the mixture like corks. Egg and bread-crumb them twice, and fry a nice colour. Drain, and serve very hot. 7i