44 Cold Meat with Tomato Salad 6. Chicken Mayonnaise. Ingredients.—Cold boiled or roast fowl, hard-boiled eggs, lettuces, mayonnaise sauce, seasonings. Method.—Cut the fowl into convenient pieces, and remove the skin ; place it in a dish with a seasoning of oil, vinegar, pepper, salt, and finely cut tarragon and chervil or other salad flavouring herbs. Cut the eggs in quarters and arrange them round a dish; shred the lettuce leaves into coarse julienne strips, but keep the hearts whole ; place a layer of lettuce inside the border of eggs, on this place slices of chicken, using the coarser pieces first, and cover with highly seasoned thick mayon- naise sauce; repeat the layers until all is used up, and place a nice fillet from the breast on the top of the pyramid. Mask the whole with mayonnaise, garnish the border with the lettuce hearts cut in two. If more convenient, the eggs may be replaced by a border of aspic jelly. 7. Cold Meat with Tomato Salad. Ingredients.—6 ripe firm tomatoes, salad dressing, seasonings, cold meat. Method.—Scald even-sized tomatoes in boiling water for one minute, drain, remove the peel and stems, let cool, cut into thin slices, and place in a salad bowl. Put in a bowl two teaspoonfuls of salt, one of pepper, one teaspoonful mixed mustard ; gradually beat in two tablespoonfuls of salad oil and one of best vinegar, mixing all with a wooden spoon. Just before serving add a tea- spoonful chopped chives or parsley, then pour it over the tomatoes. Serve with a dish of sliced cold meat nicely garnished. 8. Cold Meat with Roman Salad. f Ingredients.—Tender cold meat, boiled by preference, cold tongue, 4 yolks of eggs, 3 large truffles, 1 lettuce, herbs, salad dressing. Method.—Poach the egg yolks in a buttered mould set in a saucepan of water; cut these when cold into coarse julienne strips; cut up in similar way the truffles and an equal amount of tongue, with some tender boiled meat, pressed while hot; season all with oil, vinegar, pepper, salt, tarragon, chives, and chervil; shred a lettuce and add it just before serving.