Rice Timbales Method.—Cut some roast pork into small dice, and fry in butter till brown; remove the meat, and in the same butter fry the sliced onions and apples, add the curry powder, paste, flour, cocoanut, and chutnee; let it cook for a few minutes, add the stock or water, and stir till boiling. Rub all through a wire sieve, return the sauce to the saucepan, add the pork, and let it simmer until tender. Have ready some boiled Patna rice, line a greased mould with this, fill with the curry mixture, cover with greased paper, and steam for three-quarters of an hour. Turn out, send to table very hot, sprinkled with coraline pepper. This dish may also be served cold. 16. Rice Timbales (Savoy style). Ingredients.—6 oz. cooked smoked sausage, 2 oz. cooked ham, 6 oz. rice, 1 small onion, § pint stock, 1 egg, 2 oz. grated cheese, 4 oz. butter, pepper, salt, fried bread crumbs or bread raspings, Italian Portugaise or tomato sauce. Method.—Wash and pick over the rice, drain; see that it is perfectly dry. Peel and chop finely the onion, put it in a stew- pan with two ounces of butter, fry a little, then add the rice, and fry a few minutes longer; moisten with the stock, and cook for twenty-five minutes, together with the sausage cut into slices. Take out the slices of sausage, add the grated cheese and finely- chopped ham to the rice, stir in the remainder of butter, season to taste; cover and keep them on the side of the fire or in a slow oven for another ten or fifteen minutes. Grease well one large or several small timbale moulds, sprinkle the inside with fried bread crumbs or bread raspings, beat up lightly the white of an egg, pour the liquid white of egg in the mould or moulds, and coat the sides and bottoms with this. If small moulds are used it will probably require the whites of two eggs. Mix the yolk of egg with the rice, fill the moulds with the prepared rice, place the sliced sausage between the rice, cover with a buttered paper, and bake in a brisk oven for about ten minutes. When required for table, loosen the sides of the mould with the blade of a knife, turn out, and dish up. Pour Italian sauce or tomato sauce round the dish, and serve. 17. Scotch Egg's. Ingredients.—Minced ham, sausage meat, hard-boiled eggs, seasoning, egg and bread crumbs, frying-fat. Method.—Take equal parts of minced ham and sausage meat, I 13