67 Game or Poultry d l’lndienne up, skim, then simmer gently for an hour or longer; strain into a clean saucepan, remove the fat from the surface, and reduce to about one gill by boiling; add the stoned and chopped olives, the port, salt, and pepper to taste. Melt the butter in a frying- pan and lightly fry the pieces of duck in it; drain on kitchen paper, add them to the gravy, make very hot, and serve in a hot salmi dish garnished with fried croutons. Any wild fowl may be thus prepared and served. 25. Game or Poultry a l’lndienne. Ingredients.—Cold roast game or poultry, 2 teaspoonfuls French mustard, 1 teaspoonful English mustard, 2 tablespoon- fuls chutnee, 6 drops tabasco, lemon rind, pepper, salt, 1 oz. butter, fried bread crumbs. Method.—Cut the remains of any kind of game or poultry into joints, and score each piece neatly with a sharp knife and dredge them lightly with spiced pepper. Mix the French mus- tard, English mustard, chopped chutnee, and tabasco on a plate, adding salt, pepper, and grated lemon rind to taste. Heat the butter till oiled, dip each piece of fowl into it, spread thickly with the paste, and cover, with fried bread crumbs; place in a well-buttered fireproof china dish and bake in a quick oven for a quarter of an hour, and serve in the same dish, garnished with fried parsley. Any underdone “ fingers ” of cold meat may be cooked in the same way. 26. Kromeskies of Game op Chicken. Ingredients.—Bacon, cold game or chicken, seasoning, frying-butter, frying-fat. Method.—Cut some very thin slices of bacon, lay them flat, on each place a little highly-seasoned minced game or chicken, moistened with panada or any thick sauce; roll, taking care the mince does not escape, set aside till cold; dip each into frying- butter, fry a golden brown ; serve hot, garnished with fried parsley. 27. Savoury Risotto a la Milanaise. Ingredients.—4 oz. Patna rice, 1 oz. butter, 1 onion, 2 large shallots, gravy or sauce, grated cheese, stock, cold chicken or game. Method.—Wash the rice, boil it with the onion in stock until