16 Scallops of Cold Meat toasted and buttered on both sides, or soaked in a mixture of milk, stock, and eggs, and then fried in butter or clarified fat. Any moist savoury mince is served on toasts thus prepared. Scallops of Cold Meat. The name “ scallop ” is used to describe the serving of a dainty savoury mixture in scallop-shells, or in earthenware or metal dishes made in the same form ; failing these, the mixture may be placed in a shallow pie dish or open tart dishes, but in such it would be more correct to call it au gratin. The dishes, whether real shells or imitations, should be nicely prepared. Real shells should be chosen only from those which are well curved, and which will hold sufficient for one person ; they should be absolutely clean and dry; if of metal, brightly polished; if of earthenware, no burnt particles must mar their appearance—these must be banished by rubbing with salt or Monkey Brand soap. The inside of them must be buttered to prevent the mixture burning on them during the heating in the oven, but the edges must be free from grease, which is unsightly. The filling mixture requires careful preparation, as follows :— Having cut the meat in dice or chopped it finely, if there be no cold sauce at hand which will be suitable, make some thick white or brown sauce, take it off the fire, stir the meat into it, flavour to taste, and bearing in mind that according to the meat, chicken, or game, so must the condiments agree, and that as this mixture will be eaten with bread crumbs or rice, &c., it should be more highly seasoned than if to be eaten alone. The buttered shells should next be sprinkled thickly with bread crumbs or boiled rice fried in butter till golden brown, or if wished white, only till it has absorbed the butter, to prevent it becoming hard and shrunk in the oven. A good spoonful of the mixture should then be placed in each shell and covered with bread crumbs and tiny shreds of butter, or with rice. Toma- toes skinned and sliced, the seeds being removed, may also be used; these should be sprinkled with seasoned brown bread crumbs, so that the juice may be absorbed and prevented from making the mixture sodden. Having wiped the crumbs off the edges, the shells must be placed in a Dutch oven, or quick ordinary oven, till the contents are thoroughly warmed through, and then arranged on a folded serviette, with a few sprigs of parsley laid between them as a garnish. Serve hot.