69 Goose Legs, Devilled simmer for an hour. Fry the sliced onions in dripping, remove them when golden, add flour and stir till light brown, add strained stock and stir till boiling, add onions and flavourings to taste, also the pieces of goose, and let simmer very gently for half-an-hour; arrange on hot dish, and garnish with fried crofltons. 31. Goose Leg’s, Devilled. Ingredients.—Goose legs, i oz. butter, 2 teaspoonfuls chut- nee, 1 teaspoonful each of English and French mustard, cayenne, black pepper, and salt. Method.—Chop the bones off short to the meat, score the legs deeply with a sharp knife, mix the butter, chopped chutnee, mustards, peppers, and salt; rub the mixture well into the gashes, sprinkle with browned bread crumbs, let stand if possible for an hour, grill till well browned and crisp; serve on a very hot dish, with bits of butter on the top, and a garnish of fried potato chips or sprigs of watercress. It is essential that this dish be served “piping hot.” 32. Croustades of Partridge or Pheasant. Ingredients.—Remains of cold partridges or pheasant, brown sauce, olives, sherry, croustades. Method.—Free the meat from skin and bone, and cut in very small dice; have ready some brown sauce, add a little sherry or Madeira to it, boil it till thick, season highly, then add the meat, and as soon as it is quite hot fill the croustade cases with it. Garnish with olives which have been stoned and warmed in sherry, or with whole capers warmed in their own liquor, and serve at once. The croftstade cases should be hot and freshly fried. 33. Scallops of Partridg-e op Pheasant. Ingredients.—Remains of cold partridges, butter, browned bread crumbs, seasonings. Method.—Remove and chop all the meat, reserve it; break up the bones and carcases, put in a saucepan with cold water, a shallot, and a little salt; let simmer for an hour, strain, flavour the stock with grated nutmeg, red currant jelly, and cayenne; butter some scallop shells, fill with the meat moistened with the stock, put a layer of bread crumbs on each, place some scraps of butter on them, and put in the oven to get hot through.