79 Beef Olives 13. Miroton of Beef (2). Ingredients.—Cold beef, 2 Spanish onions, f pint brown sauce, dripping, bread crumbs, seasonings. Method.—Slice the onions thinly, fry them till yellow in good dripping, add the brown sauce, a bunch of herbs, a little Orleans vinegar, pepper and salt, stir, simmer till the onions are quite tender; skim off the fat, pass the sauce through a hair sieve, and place a little of it in a china pie dish; on this lay some thin slices of cold beef, then repeat sauce and meat until the dish is full, the last layer to be sauce. Sprinkle with a few bread crumbs, stand the dish on a tin containing hot water, and bake in a moderate oven for twenty minutes. 14. Miroton of Beef a la Guerrier. Ingredients.—Cold beef, 1 onion, 1 oz. butter or dripping, 1 oz. flour, pint stock, seasonings, mashed potatoes. Method.—Cut the beef in small square pieces; fry a minced onion in the dripping or butter, add the flour, then the stock, and stir till boiling; season with a spoonful of sharp sauce, a pinch of powdered sage, pepper, and salt. Stir in the beef, let simmer in a gourmet boiler in the oven for an hour or more, add a few drops of brown colouring, pour into the potato fortress, and serve very hot. Potato Fortress.—On a round dish make a high wall or border of smoothly-mashed potatoes; ornament the outside with a fork, and cut the top into battlements with a floured knife; sprinkle here and there with dried parsley, then set in the oven just to colour slightly. 15. Beef Olives (1). Ingredients.—1^ lb. cold beef, 4 oz. bread crumbs, 2 oz. suet or 3 oz. cooked beef fat, 1 dessertspoonful parsley and mixed herbs, grated lemon rind, grated nutmeg, 1 egg, pepper and salt, 1 pint brown sauce. Method.—Cut the meat into strips about ± inch thick, 2\ inches wide, and 4 inches long; mince the trimmings and mix them with the bread crumbs, fat, seasonings, and beaten egg; place a dessertspoonful on each slice, roll, tie with string, and simmer for three-quarters of an hour in thick brown sauce. Dish in a pile, and garnish with any vegetable in season.