83 Macaroni Timbales of Ox Tongue fine, salt to taste, lastly add the meat. Roll out thin some puff paste as if for turnovers, fill them with the above forcemeat, fry them till golden brown, drain on paper, and serve garnished with fried parsley. 27. Jelly for Mould of Rolled Beef. Ingredients.—7 sheets French gelatine, 1 pint cold water, 2 cloves, 2 strips lemon peel, 1 teaspoonful each of extract of beef, white wine vinegar, and tarragon vinegar, seasoning. Method.—Put the onion, water, cloves, and lemon peel into a saucepan with a pinch of celery seed, salt, and cayenne; let simmer for half-an-hour, add extract of beef, vinegars, and gelatine; when dissolved, strain through muslin, and use as directed. 28. Macaroni Timbales of Ox Tongue. Ingredients.—6 oz. cooked ox tongue, 10 oz. straight macaroni, 3 oz. Parmesan cheese (grated), 4 oz. butter, 6 mush- rooms, 1 truffle or 1 tablespoonful preserved truffle peelings, \ lb. short paste, seasoning. Method.—Put the macaroni in sufficient boiling water to cover it, add about \ oz. butter and a little salt. Boil for twenty minutes, strain off the water, drain, and put in a stewpan with the remainder of the butter and the grated cheese. Cut the mushrooms, tongue, and truffle into small dice or short shreds. Moisten the macaroni with the sauce, mix in carefully the mush- rooms, tongue, &c. ; take care so as not to break the macaroni. Line a mould (plain timbale or charlotte) or several small ones with thinly rolled out paste, fill up with the prepared macaroni, cover with a buttered paper, stand on a baking-sheet, and cook in a moderately heated oven for about forty minutes. Turn out carefully on to a hot, round entree dish, pour round some white or tomato sauce, and serve hot. Note.—In place of short crust paste, Nouille paste is often used. The inside of the mould or moulds should be well greased before commencing to line with paste. 29. Russian Brawn. Ingredients.—lb. semolina, 1 pint brown gravy, \ lb. cold roast beef or game, seasonings. Method.—Put good brown gravy into a saucepan; when boiling, sprinkle in the semolina and let it boil for some minutes,