77 Fricassee of Beef 6. Fillets of Beef a la Maitre d’Hotel. Ingredients. — Cold roast beef, butter, parsley, tomatoes, seasonings. Method.—Cut the beef into nice fillets, place them on a very hot plate before the fire, season them with chopped parsley, butter, pepper, and lemon-juice mixed; cut some tomatoes in two, bake them in the oven; arrange the fillets on a dish, garnish with the tomatoes, and pour hot gravy round. 7. Fricassee of Beef. Ingredients.—Cold roast beef, i onion, parsley, ^ oz. butter, ! oz. flour, i glass port wine, i teaspoonful vinegar, i or 2 yolks of eggs, § pint stock. Method.—Season very thin slices of beef with pepper and salt, dredge with the flour, put them into a saucepan with the stock, chopped onion, butter, and small bunch of parsley (chopped). Let all simmer very gently for ten minutes; then stir in the beaten yolk of egg, the vinegar, and wine, stir briskly over the fire until mixed, and let simmer for ten minutes. Serve very hot, the gravy being strained'over the meat. Garnish the dish with scraped horse-radish. 8. Grilled Beef or Mutton a l’lndienne. Ingredients.—Underdone cold roast beef or leg of mutton, 1 teaspoonful each of Reading sauce and French mustard, 1 oz. butter or 2 tablespoonfuls of oil, pepper and salt to taste. Method.—Cut the slices into similar-sized rounds or squares, mix the seasonings with oiled butter or oil, let the meat lie in the mixture for an hour; then grill over a clear, hot fire. Serve at once on fried crofitons of bread cut to the same size as the meat. With beef hand horse-radish sauce and mashed potatoes; with mutton hand tomato, Portugaise, or mushroom sauce, and potato chips. 9. Beef Hash. Ingredients.—1 lb. sliced cold beef, 1 oz. dripping, 1 oz. butter, 1 oz. flour, 1 onion, 1 carrot, f pint stock, ketchup, and seasonings. k Method.—Fry the sliced vegetables brown in the dripping, remove and pour away the fat, melt the butter in the pan, add flour, stir till browned, add the stock and stir till thickened,