63 Chicken and Macaroni shallot, or onion and parsley, after which flour them well, and fry in hot butter or bacon dripping. When cooked, arrange them with the following sauce poured round: Put a chopped small onion, two cloves, half a bay leaf, the strained juice of a lemon, a little minced parsley and tarragon, with pepper and salt to taste, into half a pint of good thickened gravy. Let it boil well and quickly, and then strain it. Serve the chicken with lemon slices round. 12. Chicken Livers, Devilled. Ingredients.—3 cooked livers, 1 teaspoonful anchovy essence, oz. of butter, seasoning of mustard, salt, cayenne, and nutmeg. Method.—Pound the above ingredients, work them into a smooth paste, spread on hot buttered toast, put into a hot oven for a few minutes, cut into fancy shapes, dish up, and garnish with chopped devilled almonds and parsley. Serve hot. 13. Chicken and Macaroni. Ingredients.—Cold boiled chicken, | lb. macaroni, oz. butter, 4 oz. grated Parmesan cheese, 1 onion, 4 cloves, 1 pint milk, pepper, salt. Method.—Cut the chicken into neat pieces; boil the macaroni in salted water for a quarter of an hour; drain; substitute the milk and butter for the water, adding the onion stuck with the cloves, salt, and pepper; when tender, drain and keep hot, put the chicken into the liquor to warm, then arrange it on a hot dish; place the macaroni over it, sprinkle with grated cheese, and brown in the oven; serve as hot as possible. If preferred, the grated cheese may be stirred into the macaroni and not made brown. 14. Chicken Marechale. Ingredients.—White meat of cold fowls, \ pint cream, | tea- spoonful each of onion juice and chopped parsley, grated lemon rind, white pepper, few drops vinegar, salad. Method.—Free the meat from skin and bones, cut into nice pieces, and season with white pepper. Whip the cream to a stiff froth, season it with the onion juice, lemon rind, parsley, and a very few drops of vinegar, and beware of making the cream too liquid. Keep in a cool place, and, if possible, on ice. Pile the chicken on a cold dish, mixing with it slices of raw tomato or pickled beetroot, sprinkling them with a very little