Oyster Sauce and stir over the fire till cooked; this will probably be in about ten minutes. Serve very hot. Suitable to serve with boiled rabbits and slices of roast mutton reheated. 15. Oyster Sauce. Ingredients.—12 or 14 oysters, white sauce, lemon-juice. Method.—Cook some oysters gently (avoid boiling) for a few minutes, then use the strained liquor with some milk to make the white sauce. Beard the oysters, and add them to the white sauce, season with pepper, salt, and a little lemon-juice. Suitable to serve with beef, boiled poultry, and grilled steak. 16. Piquante Sauce. Ingredients.—1a oz. butter or dripping, a slice of ham, 1 oz. flour, a small onion, carrot, bunch of herbs, a pint of gravy or stock, seasonings, piccalilli pickle. Method.—Cut a small onion, carrot, and a slice of ham into small squares, and fry in the dripping or butter until a nice colour, then add the flour, and stir until the whole has assumed a brownish appearance; now add the gravy or stock, and stir until it boils; season with salt, pepper, three cloves, three peppercorns, and a small bouquet of herbs. Allow this sauce to simmer slowly for twenty minutes, skim well, and then strain, and add a little chopped piccalilli pickle. Suitable to serve with cutlets, boiled veal, calf's head, or dressed vegetables. 17. Plain Bdchamel Sauce (White Sauce). Ingredients.—2 oz. butter, 1^ oz. flour, a small onion and carrot, 1 pint cold milk, salt, pepper, nutmeg, lemon-juice. Method.—Put nearly two ounces of butter into a stewpan with a small onion and carrot, and fry for a few minutes, but do not let it take colour; add the flour, and stir well together; now pour on the milk, and stir until it boils. Season with salt, pepper, a small grating of nutmeg, and add the remainder of the butter and a few drops of lemon-juice at the moment of serving. Suitable to serve with cooked fish, poultry, and vegetables. 18. Plain Melted Butter. Ingredients.—oz. butter, 1 oz. flour, | pint liquid, either water, milk, or stock, pepper, salt, lemon-juice. 3i