61 Curried Chicken 5. Curried Chicken (Brown). Ingredients.—Cold fowl, 2 or 3 onions, 2 oz. butter, 1 apple, 1 tablespoonful each curry powder and flour, f pint chicken or veal broth, | gill hot cream, lemon-juice. Method/—Cut the fowl into small joints, and remove the skin; fry light brown in butter, remove from the pan, fry the sliced onions, then add the curry powder and flour and the minced apple; when fried, add the stock, stir till boiling, then let the fowl simmer for at least one hour in the sauce. Before serving, add the cream and a tablespoonful of lemon-juice. Serve boiled rice as a border to the curry, or in a dish separately. 6. Curried Chicken (White). Ingredients.—Remains cold boiled fowl, pint white sauce, curry powder, lemon-juice, boiled rice, parsley. Method.—First make a white sauce as follows : Melt one tablespoonful of butter without browning, add a tablespoonful of flour, and stir until quite smooth ; add half a pint of milk, and stir the sauce till it thickens. Squeeze into it the juice of half a lemon, and add curry powder, pepper, and salt gradually to taste. Stir into this sauce the remains of the chicken, and simmer for fifteen minutes on the side of the stove. Have ready some well-boiled rice, scatter a little chopped parsley over, and form a ring of it on a hot dish, and pour the curry into the centre. Two hard-boiled eggs, divided into quarters, form a pretty garnish. 7, Chicken Cutlets. Ingredients.—Cold fowl (underdone preferred), egg and bread crumbs, clarified butter, grated Parmesan cheese, frying-fat, bread. Method.—Cut off the meat and shape it neatly into small cutlets, dip them into clarified butter, cover with bread crumbs, dip in beaten egg, and again cover with crumbs, pressing them on with a knife. Prepare some croutons of slices of stale bread in cutlet shapes or fingers, dip them in egg, then in grated cheese; fry them in boiling deep fat; drain; fry the chicken cutlets, place each on a crouton, sprinkle with paprika, and serve hot; garnish with lemon slices and parsley, or with green peas tossed in a small quantity of butter.