Game Mayonnaise 46 hold the corners, and swing the cloth round till the salad is well drained. Place the salad in a bowl and sprinkle with coarsely-chopped salad herbs,—/.<?., chives, tarragon, iparsley, and chervil. Mix the dressing in a separate bowl or large ladle, and stir it well in at the moment of serving. The dressing is a matter of taste, generally two or three parts of purest salad oil to one of French wine vinegar, or tarragon vinegar, with a seasoning of pepper, salt, sugar, and, if liked, a little French mustard. Cabbage lettuces, endive, chickory, dandelion, and other salad plants may be similarly dressed. 13. A French Salad Dressing1, Ingredients.—2 raw yolks eggs, 1 gill olive oil, 1 tablespoon- ful lemon-juice, pepper, salt. Method.—Put the yolks into a basin, beat them in a cool place with a wooden spoon, add the oil drop by drop till one- third is used, then add more rapidly; add lemon-juice, pepper, and salt to taste; add, if liked, a few drops of tarragon or chilli vinegar. 14. Game Mayonnaise. Ingredients.—Remains of cold game birds or wild fowl, mould of rice, hard-boiled eggs, salad dressing, garnish. Method.—Use the best pieces of the cold remains of game or wild fowl; remove the skin, and sprinkle pieces with oil, vinegar, pepper, and salt; then arrange them on a border mould of boiled rice, place a dressed salad in the centre, mask the game with thick mayonnaise sauce seasoned with cayenne, paprika, and lemon-juice; garnish with an outer border of hard-boiled eggs cut in quarters, and decorate the whole with capers, chervil, or small red radishes. Truffles are always a delightful adjunct to game mayonnaise. 15, Lentil Salad. Ingredients.—1 lb. lentils, 2 large onions, parsley, salad dressing. Method.—Wash and soak the lentils overnight or for at least six hours, boil in slightly salted water, with the onions and a sprig of parsley tied in a muslin bag, until tender. Dress as a salad with oil, vinegar, salt, pepper, a pinch of sugar, and a liberal sprinkling of chopped parsley, and serve with cold meat.