87 Brown Chaudfroid of Mutton garnish it with fillets of anchovies, chopped pickled chilli, minced parsley, and scalded sultana raisins; pour the hash in the centre, and serve at once. NB.—The dish should be kept hot over a saucepan of water whilst being garnished. 6. Brown Chaudfroid of Mutton. Ingredients.—Remains of a cold neck or loin of mutton, or thick slices from a leg of mutton, f pint of brown sauce, f oz. of gelatine, salad or macedoine of cold vegetables, seasonings. Method.—Cut the mutton into cutlets, and either trim them to resemble mutton cutlets with the bone attached, or into round cutlets; make some brown sauce, flavour it well with chutnee or tarragon vinegar, dissolve the gelatine in it, pass through a pointed strainer or fine sieve, dip each cutlet into it, and place on a drainer. When the sauce is cold and firm, if liked, decorate each cutlet with tongue or white of egg cut into fancy shapes, pour a little melted aspic jelly over; this is not a necessity. Arrange the cutlets either in a pyramid or wreath on a dish, and garnish with shredded salad dressed, or a mace- doine of vegetables. 7. Chaudfroid Mutton Cutlets. Ingredients.—Cold boiled best end neck of mutton, 4 hard- boiled eggs, 1 gill mayonnaise (stiff), 4 sheets gelatine, 1 tea- spoonful anchovy essence, 1 oz. butter, salad, aspic jelly. Method.—Trim away the skin and fat, and cut the meat into neat cutlets; rub the yolks of eggs through a wire sieve, and with a wooden spoon work in the anchovy essence, butter, and seasonings to taste; stir the dissolved gelatine into the mayon- naise sauce, spread one side of each cutlet with the farce, and mask it with the sauce. Serve on a nice dish of cress or lettuce, and fill the half whites of the eggs with the remainder of the farce, using them as a garnish. 8. Mutton Collops and Tomato Sauce. Ingredients.—Cold mutton, olive oil, tomato sauce. Method. — Flavour some rather thick slices from a cold leg of mutton with pepper and salt, and let them lie in a small quantity of good olive oil; broil them nicely, and serve on mashed potato, with tomato sauce poured round.