89 Dry Curry of Mutton 12. Spanish Mutton Cutlets. Ingredients.—i lb. mutton, i small clove garlic, 2 anchovies, I pint good mutton gravy, | gill port, black pepper, 1 clove. Method.—Scale and chop the anchovies, and stew them in the gravy with the garlic and clove for one hour, remove the garlic, add the wine, and flavour with pepper and salt; let cool, then lay in slices of mutton, and let them gently warm in the sauce for half-an-hour. Arrange on a hot dish, and strain the gravy over. 13. Dry Curry of Mutton. Ingredients.—1 onion, 1 tablespoonful pea flour, i| oz. butter, 1 teaspoonful curry powder, 2 tablespoonfuls gravy. Method.—Fry the chopped onion in butter, stir in the curry powder and pea flour, let cook, add tender cooked mutton cut in dice; cook gently without much stirring, add the gravy, let simmer, season with pepper, salt, and lemon-juice; serve with a border of boiled rice. 14. French Mince Mutton. Ingredients.—lb. cold mutton, 1 oz. dripping, 1 oz. flour, ? pint stock, 8 olives, 1 tablespoonful capers, teaspoonful chopped lemon rind, 1 dessertspoonful of any piquante sauce, seasoning. Method.—Remove all skin and gristle, and have ready some stock made from the bones ; chop the meat finely; melt the dripping, stir in the flour and fry it pale brown, add the stock, and stir till well boiled. Take the pan off the fire, add the meat, stoned olives and capers coarsely chopped with the other season- ings, allow all to get thoroughly hot without boiling, or the meat will be made tough. Serve with a border of boiled rice. 15. Mutton Fritters a l’Anglaise. Ingredients.—Cold mutton, £ lb. flour, 1 white of egg, 1 table- spoonful salad oil, 1 gill tepid milk or water, salt. Method.—Cut the mutton in finger lengths, and lay the slices on a plate, season them with pepper, salt, and, if liked, a little Worcestershire sauce. Put the flour and a pinch of salt in a basin, mix in the oil and milk, and beat to a stiff batter, set aside for a time, and just before using lightly stir in the beaten white of egg 5 dip each piece of mutton into it, then drop it into boiling fat, drain on paper, and serve very hot.