81 * Rolled Beef in Jelly 19. Ragout of Corned Beef. Ingredients.—Remains of cold boiled beef, 2 onions, table- spoonful of vinegar, 1 oz. dripping, 1 oz. flour, pint gravy, ketchup, and mustard to taste. Method.—This is a very good way of using up the end of a joint of boiled beef. Slice the onions fine, and fry in a little dripping, adding enough flour to thicken the gravy. When all is a nice brown, mix in the vinegar and gravy, and boil up. Stir while the sauce boils, add a little made mustard and ketchup, colouring all a good brown. Place the slices of meat in this, stand the saucepan at the side of the fire so that the meat can cook very gently for quarter of an hour. Serve with a border of boiled haricot beans. 20: Rolled Beef in Jelly. Ingredients.—Cold roast beef, cooked ham or bacon, vege- tables, jelly. Method.—Cover thin slices of beef with pounded ham or bacon, roll and tie with cotton. Fry a sliced onion, carrot, and turnip, add the rolls, then add a little stock, cover with greased paper, and close the pan; let cook very gently for an hour. Drain the rolls on soft paper; when cold remove the cotton. Make some jelly, put a little into a plain mould, garnish it with pickles dipped in jelly; when set, arrange the rolls in the mould, and when the jelly begins to set, pour it over the meat. Next day turn out the jelly on a dish covered with a dish-paper, and garnish with parsley. 21. Roulade of Beef a la Napolitaine. Ingredients.—1 lb. cold roast beef (lean only), 6 oz. cooked ham (lean and fat), 1 teaspoonful minced chives or shallots, 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley, seasonings, 4 oz. cooked macaroni, 2 eggs, 1 oz. butter. Portugaise sauce. Method.—Mix the minced meat and ham, season highly with chives or shallot, parsley, pepper, and salt, adding a little lemon rind and grated nutmeg; mix well, add the macaroni cut in half-inch lengths and tossed in butter, the beaten yolks and the white whisked to a stiff froth; when thoroughly blended, form into a roll, wrap in well-greased white paper. Bake in a moderate oven for half-an-hour, remove the paper, dish, and serve with Portugaise sauce. F