47 Mayonnaise Sauce 16. Lettuce Salad. This is the most popular salad in this country, and it is neces- sary to prepare it carefully, so that every leaf may be washed and thoroughly drained. Place the leaves, after they have been washed and torn into convenient pieces, in a clean dry cloth, holding it by the four corners and gently swinging it round; the water will fly off, leaving the salad crisp, fresh, and dry. It should then be mixed with small cress and arranged in a bowl, the top being tastefully and suitably garnished. The dressing, or salad sauce, should not be added until the moment of serving, otherwise the crispness of the salad will be destroyed. It should then be poured down the inside of the bowl, and well stirred in. The salad sauce may vary according to taste. 17. Mayonnaise Sauce. Ingredients.—2 yolks eggs, \ pint salad oil, ^ teaspoonful salt, \ teaspoonful pepper, vinegar (1 tablespoonful to every 8 table- spoonfuls of oil). Method.—Break the yolks into a round-bottomed basin, season with pepper and salt, stir quickly with a wooden spoon, adding the salad oil at first drop by drop, afterwards a few drops at a time, then add vinegar in a similar way. The sauce should be creamy and smooth • if too consistent it may be diluted with a little cream or water. For a salad dressing, thickly-made mustard may be added to the seasonings, and tarragon or French wine vinegar used in place of malt vinegar. Mayonnaise sauce is frequently flavoured with lemon-juice, or various flavoured vinegars and herbs, to suit the palate. 18. Ox Cheek with Hungarian Salad. Ingredients.—Boiled salted ox cheek, kidney or new potatoes, beetroot, celery or celeriac, capers, salad dressing. Method.—Ox cheek is excellent if the meat is removed from the bones, rubbed with salt, and laid in a deep dish with salt for a few days, then rinsed and simmered with plenty of water, soup vegetables, herbs, and spices for five hours. Reserve the broth for soup; drain and press the meat; when quite cold cut into dice and place in a salad bowl with equal quantities of boiled