94 Stewed Knuckle of Mutton with browned flour. Place the kidneys in the sauce, and let all stand at the side of the fire for twenty minutes. Serve with a border of boiled rice, and scatter chopped parsley thickly over. A little chutnee added to the curry sauce will be found an improvement. 29. Stewed Knuckle of Mutton. Ingredients.—Cooked knuckle of mutton, stock or water, 2 or 3 fine onions, 2 carrots, 1 blade celery, turnip, 10 pepper- corns, 2 cloves, 2 tablespoonfuls flour, 1 oz. mutton dripping. Method.—Heat the dripping in a saucepan, fry the sliced vegetables, add the cold stock or water, and place the knuckle also in the pan, with a little salt and the spices. Let simmer very gently for two hours; before serving, remove the meat, thicken and colour the stock, boil up and pour over the meat, arranging the vegetables round it. 30. Mutton with Macaroni Border. Ingredients.—1| lb. mutton, £ lb. macaroni, 1 carrot, 1 onion, 1 turnip, \ pint stock. Method.—Slice the vegetables, cook them in stock, season to taste, and thicken with a little flour; let cool, add the meat, and colour a nice brown; let it gradually warm through without boil- ing. Have ready the boiled macaroni, arrange it on a dish, and put the meat in the centre. 31. Minced Mutton and Macaroni Pie. Ingredients.—§ lb. cold lean mutton, 4 oz. macaroni, 1 egg, 1 gill cream, pint stock, 1 oz. butter, curry powder, pepper, salt, bread crumbs, parsley. Method.—Boil the macaroni in salted water until tender, then drain and set aside; mince the mutton, cut the macaroni into half-inch pieces, and mix them together; season with pepper, salt, and curry powder to taste, add half the butter, dis- solved. Beat the egg, add it to the stock and cream; moisten the mixture, arrange it in oval form on a fireproof china dish. Shred the remainder of the butter over, set in the oven till it is melted, then scatter with bread crumbs mixed with chopped parsley, pepper, and salt, and set in a moderate oven till browned and heated throughout. Serve in the same dish, and garnish with watercress or parsley.