23 Tomato Ketchup spice; it will then keep good for a further period. The mush- rooms should be well picked over and the stalks trimmed free of earth before using them for ketchup. 5. Tomato Ketchup. Ingredients.—4 lb. ripe tomatoes, \ pint white wine, i| oz. allspice, i tablespoonful peppercorns, i pint tarragon or chilli vinegar, 4 oz. salt, 1 oz. whole ginger, 3 shallots. Method.—Halve the tomatoes (after wiping them), put them in a pan or basin, sprinkle over with salt, and let them remain for a day or two; then boil up and cook till tender. Pour them into a colander or coarse sieve, and press through gently, leaving the skins behind. Peel the shallots, cut up the ginger and put with the liquor, add the remainder of ingredients, and boil for about an hour. Strain, bottle, and cork securely. 6. Walnut Ketchup. Ingredients.—Green walnuts, salt, vinegar, spices, shallots, garlic. Method.—Prick the walnuts with a coarse needle, put them in an earthenware pan, sprinkle with plenty of fine salt. Keep them covered for about a week or ten days, stirring them with a wooden spoon two or three times daily. Pound the walnuts in a mortar, and put in an enamelled saucepan, with the liquor, one pint of water, a pint and a half of vinegar, half a grated nutmeg, two crushed cloves, two blades of mace, one clove garlic, three shallots, and a tablespoonful of crushed peppercorns. Boil up, simmer for a short time, skim and put away in a jar, well covered. Strain the ketchup after two or three weeks, boil up, bottle, and cork well. 7. Baroda Pickle. Ingredients.—\ lb. green ginger, 2 quarts vinegar, | oz. tur- meric, 2 oz. salt, 1 oz. mustard seeds, \ oz. long pepper, \ oz. garlic, oz. cayenne. Cucumber, tomatoes, kidney beans. Method.—Slice the green ginger into two quarts of vinegar, add turmeric, salt, mustard seeds, long pepper, half an ounce of garlic peeled, a quarter of an ounce of cayenne, and boil the whole together for five minutes. Put into a jar some peeled and sliced cucumber, sliced tomatoes, and kidney beans in equal propor-