103 Fricandelle of Veal vegetables round the meat, with sufficient gravy to look well; strain and serve the remainder in a tureen. Garnish with force- meat balls, lemon slices, and fried bacon. 13. Fricandelle of Veal. Ingredients.—i lb. cold roast veal (lean), 4 oz. cooked fat ham, bread crumbs, 2 oz. mushrooms, seasoning, butter. Method.—Cut the meat into strips, season with pepper, salt, grated lemon rind, and nutmeg, and pass it through a mincing machine; add a large heaped tablespoonful of bread crumbs soaked in milk, and the chopped mushrooms, previously fried in butter. Mix well, place in a well-buttered mould sprinkled with crumbs, cover thickly with crumbs and a few pieces of butter, bake for thirty-five minutes, or steam for three-quarters of an hour, turn out carefully, and if baked, serve with tomato or mushroom sauce; if steamed, with nicely seasoned white sauce. 14. Veal Fritters. Ingredients.—\ lb. lean cooked veal, \ lb. lean ham, 3 oz. flour, 2 yolks and 1 white of egg, 1 oz. butter, ^ gill milk, season- ings, frying-fat. Method.—Chop the veal and ham, and free them from skin and gristle; make a batter by beating the oiled butter into the flour and adding the yolks of eggs and milk, add the meat, season to taste with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg; whisk the white of an egg and add it last. Have ready a deep pan of hot frying-fat (a blue steam rising from it), drop in the mixture from a dessertspoon, and fry light brown; drain on a cloth or paper; serve on a hot dish garnished with fried parsley. Serve very hot. Fried curled rashers may be added to this dish if desired. 15. Veal Picnic Pie. Ingredients.—1 lb. cooked veal, % lb. cooked ham, herbs, seasonings, 4 eggs, pie-crust. Method.—Line a greased open tart dish with short crust, mix the chopped veal and ham with one tablespoonful of chopped parsley, one teaspoonful pepper, grated nutmeg, cayenne, lemon rind, and salt to taste, moisten with two beaten eggs and a little veal gravy; pile in the centre of the dish, pour over two beaten eggs, also flavoured; wet the edges of the paste. Cover the pie in the usual manner, decorate and glaze