106 Timbale of Veal sliced tomatoes seasoned with minced shallot; then repeat the layers till the dish is full, pour over it a glass of sherry, or sherry and gravy mixed, cover the top with a mixture of bread crumbs, minced shallot, mushrooms, and parsley, then more bread crumbs and bits of butter. Bake in a quick oven for half-an-hour. Serve very hot. 23. Noisettes de Galantine a la Portugfaise. Ingredients.—i lb. cold galantine of meat (truffle and pistachd if possible), \ pint Portugaise sauce, pepper, garnish of French beans, green peas, or macedoine. Method.—Slice the galantine rather thickly, heat the Portu- gaise sauce in a stewpan; when very hot dust the slices with pepper, and add them to the sauce; make very hot without quite boiling, arrange on a hot dish, make a border of the vege- tables, pour the sauce over the meat, and serve at once. 24. Savoury Veal Cutlets en Papillottes. Ingredients.—Square slices of cold roast veal, equal-sized slices of fat bacon, shallot, parsley, pepper, spice. Method.—Season the slices of veal with spice, pepper, chopped shallot, and parsley, adding if possible some chopped mushrooms ; lay on each slice a piece of bacon. Fold them in well-oiled papers, lay them on a gridiron, and broil for quarter of an hour. Dish and send to table with a tureen of tomato sauce. Mutton may be warmed in this way. 25. Timbale of Veal. Ingredients.—6 oz. straight macaroni, i lb. cooked veal, 4 oz. cooked lean ham, 2 oz. bread crumbs, 3 eggs, seasonings. Method.—Boil the macaroni for ten minutes in water, drain and boil it till tender in milk or white stock; cut it into pieces three-quarters of an inch in length, well butter a plain mould, and line it with these pieces set on end and closely packed together. Take the veal, lean ham, and six small mushrooms, mince them finely, put into a basin with the bread crumbs, pepper, salt, and sweet herbs to taste, and mix all with three raw eggs. Stir all well together; fill the centre of the mould with the mixture and press it smoothly over with a knife. Cover the top of the mould with a piece of greased paper, and steam for an hour until the centre of the mould is firm; turn out, and serve very hot with white sauce poured round.