76 Corned Beef Pie minutes without actually boiling; place the mixture inside the circle of potatoes, and place slices of lightly-broiled beef round. Serve very hot. 3. Corned Beef Pie. Ingredients.—Cold corned beef, tomatoes, tomato sauce, bread crumbs, gravy, pickled onions. Method.—Remove the skin and fat, and chop the meat finely; moisten it with gravy and tomato sauce, and season with pepper and salt. Place a layer of tomatoes in a pie dish, fill in the crevices with browned bread crumbs and thickened gravy, put the meat over them, cover with thin slices of pickled onions, and lastly with mashed potato, one inch deep, score this across the top. Bake and brown in a steady oven half-an-hour. 4. Beef Cutlets. Ingredients.—| lb. cold roast beef, 4 oz. cooked tongue, 1 oz. butter, 1 oz. flour, 1\ gill stock, 1 egg, egg and bread crumbs, herbs, frying-fat. Method.—Pass the meat through a mincing machine; make a “ panada ” of the butter, flour, and stock. Add the meat, and flavour with parsley, shallot, pepper, salt, &c., to taste; stir in the beaten egg, and spread on a plate to cool; then make into cutlets, cover with egg, then dip into bread crumbs mixed with chopped onion and herbs; fry in deep boiling fat, drain, and serve on a mould of mashed potatoes with a suitable garnish. Serve very hot. 5. Beef Darioles. Ingredients.—1 lb. underdone cold roast beef, 1 oz. butter, 1 teaspoonful each of finely-minced shallot and parsley, 2 table- spoonfuls of finely-grated horse-radish, 4 tablespoonfuls of bread crumbs, pepper, salt, grated lemon, and nutmeg 19 taste, 2 yolks of eggs, a little good stock. Method.—Pass the beef (allowing only very little fat) twice through a mincing machine, mix with it the above ingredients, and moisten slightly with the beaten yolks of eggs and stock. Press into buttered dariole moulds, bake in a moderately hot oven for twenty minutes, turn out on a dish-paper, garnish and serve immediately. Hand good brown sauce and stuffed tomatoes with this dish.