90 Mutton Fritters au Gratin 16. Mutton Fritters a la Diable. Ingredients.—~ lb. thinly-sliced cold mutton, 2 tablespoon- fuls Indian chutnee, frying-batter. Method.—Trim the mutton neatly 2~ in. by i| in., spread with chutnee, roll, dip into frying-batter with a skewer, slip them off gently into deep frying fat heated till a blue smoke rises from it. Fry only three at a time ; when light brown remove, drain, and, if liked, sprinkle with cayenne and curry powder; pile on dish- paper, and garnish. Hand brown or tomato sauce. 17. Mutton Fritters au Gratin. Ingredients.—Cold mutton, egg, crumbs, frying-fat. Method.—Divide slices of cold mutton into fingers, let soak in a little salad oil flavoured with onion juice, lemon juice, and pepper; dip into beaten egg mixed with a pinch of mixed spice, then into plain, fine biscuit crumbs seasoned also with spice and pepper; quickly fry crisp, drain, and serve piping hot. 18. Mutton Fritters a la Palestine. Ingredients.—Underdone cold roast or boiled mutton, 2 tablespoonfuls salad oil, 1 of vinegar, 1 teaspoonful each of minced parsley and shallot, 1 strip of lemon peel, pepper, salt, 1 blade mace, 1 bay leaf, batter, frying-fat. Method.—Cut the meat into slices and trim these into circles ; mix the oil, vinegar, and seasonings in a soup plate, add the mutton, and let it marinade for an hour, turning frequently; then drain, dip in a light frying-batter, and drop a few at a time only into boiling fat, and fry to a light golden brown. Take out, drain, and serve with a puree of antichokes, parsnips, or turnips. If the marinade be bottled it may be reserved for future use. 19. Mutton, Grilled. Ingredients.—Slices of leg of mutton, 2 oz. butter, pepper, salt, | pint bread crumbs, fried potatoes, sauce. Method.—Cut thick slices from a leg of mutton; cooked meat, if underdone, will serve nearly as well as fresh. Season with pepper and salt, dip into liquid butter, sprinkle with fine crumbs, and grill for eight minutes. Arrange in a neat pile in the centre of a hot dish, make a border of fried potatoes, and