118 Macaroni Timbale 13. Irish Potato Pie. Ingredients.—Cold meat, mashed potatoes, seasonings. Method.—Season mashed potato with boiled onion, salt, and pepper. Put a layer of this potato in a pie dish, then a layer of thin slices of underdone cold meat seasoned with pepper and salt. Then put another layer of potato, &c., and so on till the dish is full. Cover with potato. Brush over with hot butter, and bake until all is hot through and a nice brown on the top. If the meat is dry, dip each piece into thick gravy before putting it in the pie. 14. To rewarm a Joint of Meat. Sprinkle the cut surface with seasoned flour, wrap the joint in a sheet of buttered paper, let it warm through in a slow oven until thoroughly hot, place on a dish, pour good gravy round, and garnish suitably with roast potatoes, baked onions, baked tomatoes, &c. 15. Macaroni Timbale. Ingredients.—Cold meat, lb. long pieces of fine macaroni or spaghetti, 2 tablespoonfuls each of flour and butter, | pint each of milk and stock, flavourings, forcemeat, 2 eggs. Method.—Cook long pieces of macaroni or spaghetti in salted water, putting them slowly into the water so that they can be turned without breaking; when tender lay them straight on a cloth to cool; butter a plain dome-shaped mould or quart basin, arrange the macaroni round it, holding it in place by a thin layer of savoury forcemeat. Melt the butter and flour together in a saucepan and let them cook a little, add the milk and stock, stir till boiling, adding a little minced onion and mushrooms ; put aside half of this sauce ; with the remainder add sufficient finely-chopped meat, and stir over the fire till the meat is heated. Flavour to taste, take it off the fire and stir in the beaten eggs; fill the basin; cover with greased paper; place the basin in a pan of hot wrater, and poach in the oven for half-an-hour. Turn out and serve the remainder of the sauce with the timbale. 16. Meat Shape. Ingredients.—| lb. minced cold meat, | lb. browned bread crumbs, 1 egg, seasonings, stock or milk, 2 oz. beef suet. Method.—Well rub a plain mould or basin with clarified fat or butter, sprinkle it thickly with the bread crumbs, season the