32 Portugaise Sauce Method.—Melt in a saucepan over a moderate fire one ounce of butter, add the flour, stir the two together for about five minutes till the roux> as it is called, is cooked, but is in no way coloured. Then add the cold water or other liquid by degrees, stirring all the time, and bring gradually to the boil, adding salt and white pepper to taste. It is very necessary that the liquid should be added a little at a time, for if it is mixed too quickly the sauce will not be smooth. Let it boil well for a few minutes, then just as it is ready to go to table add the remainder of the butter, previously cut into very small pieces, and a small squeeze of lemon-juice, which gives a brilliant appearance as well as a good flavour to the sauce. The proportions above given make a good sauce; a simpler one may be made in the same way, using less butter, but the effect is not so rich. Thorough cooking of the roux, boiling of the sauce, and the addition of a small pat of fresh butter before serving, are the essential points to be remembered. Instead of water, milk may be used, or stock made from chicken bones or scraps of veal or mutton; and whenever this sauce is used for fish or vegetables, the liquid in which these were boiled should always be used. On this basis all white sauces can be made. 19. Portugaise Sauce. Ingredients.—i lb. ripe tomatoes, i teaspoonful castor sugar, 2 teaspoonfuls vinegar, i teaspoonful onion juice, a wineglass cooking port, oz. butter. Method.—Rub the tomatoes through a hair sieve, add the seasonings, using a morsel of chopped garlic in preference to onion juice if liked; let it boil quickly to reduce, stirring in the butter just before using. 20, Sauce Robert Bourgeoise, Ingredients.—i oz. butter, i oz. flour, 3 large onions, 1 pint stock, a teaspoonful each of vinegar and mustard. Method.—Put in a saucepan a piece of butter as large as a walnut; stir in a spoonful of flour and brown it gently. Then add the onions, chopped fine, and enough butter to cook them. To this enough stock should be added to make the desired quantity, and the whole should be brought to boiling point. Just before serving add salt, pepper, vinegar, and mustard. Suitable for pork, goose, or duck.