88 Curried Mutton or Lamb 9. Curried Mutton (1). Ingredients.—2 lb. cold mutton, 4 oz. butter or dripping, 2 onions (sliced), 1 pint broth or water, curry powder, curry paste. Method.—Cut the meat into large dice, heat the fat in the frying-pan, then put in the meat and onions, stir over quick fire for about five minutes to colour the meat; place all in a saucepan, stir in the powder, paste, and a pinch of salt, add the broth or water. Let it simmer for an hour. A squeeze of lemon is an improvement. Serve with boiled rice. 10. Curried Mutton or Lamb (2). Ingredients. — 1 lb. cooked meat, 1 large onion, i| oz. butter, 1 teaspoonful each of grated cocoanut, flour, curry powder, and lemon-juice, 1 dessertspoonful chutnee, 1^ gill stock or milk, salt, boiled rice for border. Method.—Cut the meat, not too thin, into suitable pieces to eat with a fork, trim off all superfluous fat; heat the butter, fry the finely-minced onion a light colour, stir in the flour and curry powder over the fire long enough to blend well with the onion and butter; add the cocoanut. Moisten with stock, boil, skim, and let simmer for a few minutes, add the meat and chopped chutnee, season to taste with salt, lemon-juice, and paprika; cover, shake over fire until simmering, and let simmer about half-an-hour. Serve very hot with carefully boiled and dried Patna rice as a border, with curry in the centre. 11. Mutton Cutlets a la Pompadour. Ingredients.—8 cutlets from a cold boiled, braised, or roast neck or loin of mutton, 3 sheets of gelatine, ^ pint each of white sauce, brown sauce, and tomato sauce, pint puree of spinach or peas, aspic jelly. Method.—Cut and trim the cutlets neatly, have ready the three kinds of sauce, and dissolve a sheet of gelatine in each, let them be nicely seasoned ; pass the spinach or green peas through a sieve, and stir into the puree a tablespoonful of aspic jelly. When boiling, thicken it with a little corn-flour; dip two cutlets into each sauce and two into the puree; let them get cold and firm, then pour some aspic jelly over them; when the jelly is set, arrange them in a circle on the remainder of the jelly, which should be chopped, fill the centre with a nice salad, dressed with mayonnaise sauce.