Minced Beef season with the fried vegetables, tomato or walnut ketchup, &c., and let all stew for half-an-hour. Let it cool, add the beef, let all warm through very slowly, colour the gravy a rich brown ; arrange nicely in a dish with a border of mashed potatoes, and garnish with toast sippets. 10. Beef Hash (French Bourgeoise Style). Ingredients.—i lb. cold roast beef, 2 oz. cooked ham, 4 potatoes, seasonings, gravy, £ lb. mushrooms, 1 oz. butter. Method.—Cut the meat into inch-square dice, slice the ham and mushrooms, fry two finely-chopped shallots in the butter, add the ham and mushrooms, lastly the meat, and stir for a few seconds. Moisten with brown sauce and tomato sauce, season with pepper, salt, and nutmeg. Simmer gently for half-an-hour. Have ready four potatoes, scooped in marble shapes, parboiled and fried. Arrange the hash on the dish, and garnish with the potatoes. 11. Minced Beef. Ingredients.—1 lb. remains cold roast beef, 1 onion, 2 oz. butter, £ oz. flour, i|- gill gravy or stock, 4 tomatoes. Method.—Fry the minced onion in the butter, stir in the flour, let it get brown without burning, add the liquid, stir till boiled, let it cool, then add the meat and tomatoes, the latter skinned and cut in cubes. Season to taste, and let gently heat for half-an-hour; add more liquid if necessary. A bay leaf is an improvement whilst cooking; remove it before serving. Serve in a border of mashed potatoes, rice, or haricot beans; garnish with fried sippets. 12. Miroton of Beef (1). Ingredients.—| lb. onions, 1 pint good stock, 1 lb. cold beef, 1 oz. butter, £ oz. flour, seasonings. Method.—Boil the peeled onions in the stock till pulped, about three-quarters of an hour; cut the meat into neat slices. When the onions are ready, make the flour into a paste with the butter, adding pepper, salt, a teaspoonful of made mustard, browning; mix all with the onions, and stir while it cooks for a few minutes. Put a layer of sauce into a fireproof dish suitable for sending to table, then meat and sauce again till all is used, sauce being the last layer; sprinkle a few bread crumbs over, and put in the oven for about ten minutes. Serve with a pie collar round the dish. 73