Yellow Pickle 25 11. Red Cabbage Pickle. Ingredients.—Red cabbage, salt; to each quart of best vinegar allow i oz. black peppercorns, £ oz. ginger well bruised, a little cayenne, cochineal, or beetroot. Method.—Take off all the outside leaves of a good red cab- bage which has been slightly touched by frost, cut into six or eight pieces, remove the stalks and shred the leaves as finely as possible, spread on a dish, sprinkle with salt, cover, let remain twenty-four hours, then drain and wipe gently with a cloth. Boil the spices in the vinegar; when cold pour it over the cabbage, and press into jars. A little cochineal or beetroot boiled with the vinegar improves the colour. Tie over, and keep in a cool dry place. This pickle is ready in a week, and does not keep for any length of time. 12. Yellow Pickle (White Cabbage, &c.). Ingredients.—\ lb. pounded sugar, | lb. salt, ^ lb. mustard flour, 2 oz. mustard seeds, 2d. worth turmeric, 1 oz. curry powder, 3 pints best vinegar, cayenne to taste. Method.—Mix all the dry ingredients in a bowl, then gradu- ally add the cold vinegar. Cut a large white cabbage into six or eight portions, remove all outer leaves, stalks, and midribs of leaves, slice the leaves into fine shreds, then coarsely chop them, stir into the liquid, and place all in a covered jar. The pickle will be ready in three days, and will keep good for months if occasionally pressed under the liquor. Other fresh vegetables can be added at any time. 13. Tomato Sauce (Original Recipe). Take 9 lb. sound red tomatoes, cut them in pieces, rejecting all discoloured parts and stalks, put them in an enamelled pre- serving pan, sprinkle with 4 teaspoonfuls of ground ginger, stew till soft, pass them through a sieve, then measure. To 5 pints of this tomato puree add 1^ oz. fine salt, 3 oz. granulated sugar, 1 quart vinegar, 3 shallots, | oz. garlic, and 3 bay leaves; the sliced shallots, garlic, and bay leaves to be tied in muslin; boil about i| hour till of sufficient thickness, stirring frequently. Bottle and store for use. This sauce may be used hot or cold with meat, fish, or