104 Mould of Veal and Ham the crust, and bake in a moderate oven until the paste below and above the meat is well cooked. Turn out on a sieve to cool. Serve cold on a dish-paper, garnished with parsley. 16. Slices of Veal, to rewarm. Ingredients.—Cold veal, forcemeat balls, rashers, gravy. Method.—Place the slices of veal on a hot dish, pour over them some hot, rich, thickened gravy or brown sauce, cover and place in the oven for a few minutes; serve with fried forcemeat balls and curled rashers of bacon. 17. Veal au Gratin a ITtalienne. Ingredients.—i lb. cold roast veal, 4 oz. macaroni, 2 shallots, bread crumbs, butter, tomato sauce. Method.—Boil the macaroni in salted water, drain, and cut into i-inch pieces; remove the skin, fat, and all dark parts from the veal, and mince it finely. Fry some bread crumbs lightly, and the minced shallots. Butter a fireproof china dish, sprinkle it with bread crumbs, then add a layer of mince, season with a little fried shallot, add a layer of macaroni and some tomato sauce, repeat the layers until the dish is full. Sprinkle thickly with bread crumbs and bits of butter, and bake in a moderate oven about half-an-hour. 18. Mould of Veal and Ham. Ingredients.—1 lb. cooked veal, ^ lb. cooked lean ham, 3 hard-boiled eggs, clear white stock, gelatine, garnish seasoning. Method.—Cut the veal and ham into nicely shaped thin pieces, boil the eggs for twelve minutes, put them in cold water, take off the shells, cut the whites into rings and the yolks into quarters, or press them through a wire sieve to crumble them finely; have ready some slices of boiled beetroot cut into fancy shapes, some sprigs of parsley, pieces of mixed pickles, &c. Pour a little of the stock into the bottom of a plain tin mould; when set, arrange whites and yolks of eggs, beetroot, &c., in a fixed design, cover with more stock, then fill the mould with the meat, ham, and remains of garnish; well season the stock, and pour it when nearly cold into the mould till quite full. Turn out and serve with salad. Should the stock not be sufficiently strong to jelly easily, dissolve some gelatine in it before using it in the mould.