93 Mutton Hashed like Venison kneaded together, add the sliced mutton, slowly make hot again, and serve with a border of either well-boiled rice or mashed potato. 25. Mutton Hashed like Venison. Ingredients.—i lb. mutton, ^ gill port wine, 2 teaspoonfuls Worcester sauce, 1 tablespoonful red currant or rowan jelly, 1 gill of mutton gravy or 1 teaspoonful meat extract dissolved in 1 gill of hot water, 1 shallot. Method.—Cut the mutton in thick slices, put it into a sauce- pan with the other ingredients, and let all simmer very gently for three-quarters of an hour without boiling for a moment. 26. Mutton a l’lndienne. Ingredients.—1 onion, \ lh. cold mutton, ^ pint brown sauce, 1 dessertspoonful of curry paste, 3 gherkins (chopped). Method.—Put the finely-chopped onion into the sauce, add the curry paste and the mutton cut into dice, let all simmer gently for half-an hour, add the gherkins, season to taste, and serve hot with boiled rice. 27. Indian Stewed Mutton. Ingredients.—1 lb. cold mutton, 1 oz. dripping, 1 dessert- spoonful of Indian pickle, 1 oz. flour, f pint stock. Method.—Take about a pound of cold cooked mutton, free from skin and fat, and cut it into dice of an inch square. Melt the dripping in a frying-pan. Place the meat in it, stir it for two or three minutes, but do not let it brown. Then add some good hot brown stock. Season with pepper and salt and chopped Indian pickle. Cover with a plate, and stew very slowly until tender. Thicken the gravy so that it clings to the meat and there is no liquid in the dish. Garnish with chutnee, and serve. 28. Curried Kidneys. Ingredients.—Tin of kidneys, 1 onion, 1 apple, 1 carrot, a bunch of herbs, curry powder, browned flour, parsley, chutnee, ^ lb. Patna rice. Method.—Take a small tin of kidneys, remove all fat, and put the jelly or gravy aside. Fry an onion, a sliced apple, a carrot, and some herbs in butter, dredge in curry powder to taste, and slowly add the gravy. Strain the sauce after it has cooked for twenty minutes, set in a clean saucepan, and thicken