86 Broiled Mutton and Tomatoes 2. Mutton Brawn. Ingredients.—Cold lean mutton, 2 calfs feet, seasonings, eggs. Method.—Wash, chop, and simmer the feet, with a sage leaf, some peppercorns, mace, and salt, in only enough water to cover until the meat drops from the bones; add an equal quantity of mutton, and let it heat through without boiling; take up, mix the meats well, and if liked add strips of boiled tongue, ham, and fowl. Boil down the liquor to reduce it, strain, and use enough to moisten the meat; place some sliced hard-boiled eggs round a brawn mould, pack the well-seasoned meat into it, and set aside till cold. Then turn out and serve with a well-dressed salad. 3. Broiled Mutton and Tomatoes. Ingredients.—Thick steak from boiled leg of mutton, 2 oz. butter, 4 tomatoes, bread crumbs. Method.—Brush over the mutton with oiled butter, season with salt and pepper, broil; cut some tomatoes in half, scatter them with seasoned bread crumbs and butter, and bake till the crumbs are browned. Serve the mutton on a very hot dish, with the tomatoes round it. 4. Broiled Mutton and Fried Cabbage. Ingredients.—Cold leg of mutton, salad oil, pepper, salt, boiled cabbage, dripping, gravy. Method.—Cut the mutton into rather thin slices, rub over with salad oil, season with pepper and salt, and let it stand aside while the cabbage is boiling. Drain the cabbage thoroughly, fry it with a little dripping, season highly with pepper and salt. Meanwhile broil the slices of mutton before the fire. Arrange the cabbage in a flat mould in the centre, on it set the broiled mutton, and round pour some thick gravy. 5. Casserole with Cream Hash. Ingredients.—Slices of cold roast mutton, 1 gill cream, 1 gill good stock, few threads of saffron, anchovies, garnish, casserole of rice. Method.—Prepare a casserole of rice (see Chap. XIII.); meanwhile cut some cold mutton into rounds, put it into a saucepan with the cream, stock, saffron, and flavourings to taste, let it warm through very slowly. When the casserole is ready,