62 Fricassee of Chicken 8. Cutlets of Chicken h l’ltalienne. Ingredients.—\ lb. cold fowl or rabbit, i oz. butter, i oz. flour, ^ pint milk, i yolk of egg, 3 oz. macaroni, egg and bread crumbs, frying-fat. Method.—Boil the macaroni in salted water till quite tender, drain, cut in half-inch lengths; finely chop the meat, melt the butter in a saucepan, add the flour, then the milk, and stir till boiled; flavour with pepper, salt, mace, and grated cheese; add the macaroni, meat, and yolk of egg, and simmer for a few minutes, then spread on a plate and leave till cold. Form into neat cutlets, cover with beaten egg and bread crumbs, and fry in deep fat until a golden colour. Drain dry and serve with baked whole tomatoes. 9. Fricassee of Chicken (1). Ingredients.—Cold chicken, 1 onion, 1 carrot, £ blade of mace, 5 peppercorns, small bunch of herbs, \ pint chicken broth or water, \ pint milk, 1 oz. butter, 1 oz. flour, 1 yolk of egg. Method.—Cut each leg, the wings, and breast into two pieces ; put them in a saucepan with the broth or water, milk, and flavourings; simmer gently for twenty minutes; remove the skin and keep the pieces warm ; strain the broth and thicken sufficiently with the butter and flour kneaded together, stirring till well boiled; add the yolk of egg. Replace the pieces, and when well heated without boiling, serve garnished with slices of lemon. 10. Fricassde of Chicken (2). Ingredients.—Any nice pieces of cold chicken, white sauce, a few tinned mushrooms, chopped ham and parsley. Method.—Remove the skin and trim the pieces; make them hot in the white sauce with the mushrooms ; season with lemon- juice, grated nutmeg, white pepper, and salt. Serve in an entree dish, put fried croutons round, and sprinkle these with finely- chopped parsley and ham. 11. Chicken, Fried. Ingredients.—Cold chicken, seasonings, butter, sauce. Method.—Take the remains of a cold fowl, cut it into neat joints, and let them soak for an hour in salad oil mixed with a tablespoonful of lemon-juice, salt, and pepper, and finely-chopped