15 Croquettes and Rissoles The remains of cold chicken, veal, or pork can be almost equally well used, the one for the other, or mixed, if finely minced and flavoured with cold ham, tongue, herbs, and seasoning. Remember that a few grains of pounded mace or grated nut- meg give a resemblance of chicken flavour to all white meats and sauces. Such minced meats, when blended with panada, bread crumbs, or mashed potato, are easily made into rissoles, meat balls, timbales, scallops, &c., or, when enriched with thick sauce, may be served in patties or on toasts. Croquettes and Rissoles. Having prepared the mixture, slightly flour the hands, divide into equal portions, and roll it lightly into balls, then form into cones, rolls, cutlets, or any shape desired, being careful not to let the flour get pressed into them beyond the outside, or they will crack in frying. According to the shape, the same style of mixture is called by various names, such as cutlets, cannelons, cakes, &c., and by a little practice a dishful of uniform shape and size can soon be made; this is necessary to secure them a good appearance when served up. Having moulded all, wipe off all flour from hands, board, and knife, break the eggs on a plate, adding a tablespoonful of cold water to each egg, and beating them only enough to mix yolks and whites evenly. For economy, the whites only, mixed with two tablespoonfuls of cold water to each, may be used, but the colour and general appearance of this is not so good. The croquette should now be lifted with a broad-bladed knife on to the plate, and when the egg-wash has been brushed gently over it, moved off the plate with the knife to a pile of fine bread crumbs laid on a piece of kitchen paper. Take the corners of this and shake the crumbs over, see that every part is coated with egg and crumbs, then lift the croquette off the paper, replace it on the board, pressing the crumbs on with the knife, and forming it into neat shape. If possible, let the articles thus covered with egg and crumbs remain for half-an-hour to harden, then have ready a pan of deep, hot frying-fat, and fry to a golden brown, drain on paper, dish, and garnish. Toasts. Toasts of various kinds are suitable for additions to breakfasts and high teas or simple suppers. For these the bread is either