Duck Mayonnaise 45 9. Cucumber Salad. Ingredients.—i or 2 medium-sized cucumbers, salt, oil, vinegar, pepper. Method.—Take one or two freshly-cut green cucumbers, peel them, cut into finest possible slices, spread on a dish, sprinkle with salt; let remain an hour; place in a colander and rinse with cold water, drain, season with oil, vinegar, pepper, and a little salt, and, if liked, sprinkle with a small pinch of finely-chopped chives and some chervil. Some persons like the addition of a small spoonful of French mustard to the salad dressing, but neither this nor the herbs are generally used in England. 10. Duck Mayonnaise. Ingredients.—Remains of cold roast duck, 2 Seville oranges, 1 onion, parsley, oil, vinegar, pepper, salt, lettuce. Method.—Cut up the duck into small pieces, and do not remove the skin; marinate in oil and vinegar seasoned with pepper, salt, chopped onion, and parsley for half-an-hour, then drain on a cloth. Cut the yellow rind only of the oranges into thin strips and boil for quarter of an hour in salted water; drain, mix part of this with mayonnaise sauce; arrange some shred lettuce on a dish, dress the duck on it, and mask with the sauce. A border of quarters of hard-boiled eggs and stoned olives, garnished respectively with thin slices of radish and small lettuce- heart leaves, form a suitable finish to this dish. The remainder of the orange may be used to ornament the mayonnaise. 11. English Salad Dressing. Ingredients.—2 hard-boiled eggs, oil, vinegar, mustard, pepper, salt. Method.—Take the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs and mash them with a wooden spoon. Add a teaspoonful of made mustard, a pinch of salt, some pepper, four tablespoonfuls of oil and two of vinegar. Stir all well together and the dressing is made. Some people like the addition of a teaspoonful of finely-chopped capers just before serving. 12, French Salad h la Vinaigrette. Divide some French cos lettuces down to the stalk, break the leaves into three or four pieces, cleanse and rinse in cold water, and either shake in a wire salad-basket, or place in a dry cloth;