22 Indian Chutnee the chillies with scissors, scrape the ginger root, pick over and clean the sultanas. Put all the ingredients into a preserving pan and boil till tender, and of good consistency for chutnee. Put into hot jars or bottles, cover as for jam, and store for use. 3. Indian Chutnee (Original Recipe). Ingredients.—8 lb. large green juicy apples (unripe), 4 lb. lump sugar, | lb. green ginger, 1 lb. salt, £ lb. pudding raisins, 2 oz. garlic, 1 quart vinegar, 3 pints cold water. These ingredients are to be weighed after being prepared for cooking. Method.—Prepare the chillies by shredding them finely with a pair of scissors ; peel the green ginger, and slice it very thin and small; stone and chop the raisins ; peel and slice the garlic as finely as possible, pound it in a mortar, reserve half of it on a plate with half the garlic, and keep covered till required. Pound the remainder of the ginger and garlic until finely bruised, then pour the vinegar over it and let it soak, stirring occasionally; boil the sugar and water, and while it is cooking to a syrup peel and quarter the apples, throwing them in as they are ready; let them boil until soft enough to mash against the pan with a spoon. Finally add all the other ingredients, and boil till the chutnee is well pulped and jellied. It should be a rich red-brown colour. Put it into warm jars; next day cover down as for jam, and store in a cool, dry place. 4. Mushroom Ketchup. Ingredients.—Mushrooms, salt, shallots, garlic, bay leaves, ginger, mace, cloves, horse-radish. Method.—Break up some freshly-gathered mushrooms and put them in an earthenware pan, strew over freely with salt, stir occasionally, and keep thus for three days. Put them on a slow fire and boil up ; skim and strain. To each quart of liquor thus obtained add two shallots peeled, two cloves of garlic, a blade of mace, two bay leaves, a tablespoonful of peppercorns, four cloves, one ounce of whole ginger; boil again very slowly, and skim well. When cold, bottle and cork. Some grated horse-radish is sometimes added, and is found to improve the pungency of the ketchup. Mushroom ketchup should not be kept longer than one year. If any is left over at the end of the year, it is best to boil it up with a fresh lot of