60 Chaudfroid of Chicken 2. Chicken Capilotade. Ingredients.—Remains of cold fowl, 2± oz. butter, i oz. flour, pint stock, capers or gherkins, parsley, shallot, mushrooms. Method.—Skin the pieces of fowl, and dredge with a large tea- spoonful of flour; heat i oz. butter, and fry them for about seven minutes. Remove from the pan, add \ oz. butter, and fry i small clove, garlic, i shallot, 2 teaspoonfuls parsley, and 3 mush- rooms, all very finely chopped. Add the bones, trimmings, stock, pepper, and salt, and boil gently one hour. Fry 1 oz. butter and 1 tablespoonful of flour until browned, strain the stock into the pan, and stir till thickened, add the chicken and a teaspoonful of chopped capers or gherkins, let it all simmer a short time; place the meat on a dish; pour the sauce over, and garnish with fried sippets or broiled mushrooms. 3. Chaudfroid of Chicken. Ingredients.—Remains of cold chicken, white sauce, gelatine, seasonings. Method.—Cut the fowl into small joints, remove the skin, take half a pint of white sauce in which stir two or three sheets of soaked gelatine, boil, whiten with a little cream, and flavour with lemon-juice. Mask each joint with the sauce; when cool- ing, decorate with yolk of egg, parsley, or truffle; when quite set, serve on a bed of lettuce dressed with mayonnaise or ordinary salad sauce, and garnish with cucumber slices, radishes, or any suitable and convenient garnish. 4. Croustades of Fowl. Ingredients.—Half a cold chicken, 2 oz. cooked ham, 1 oz. butter, 1 oz. flour, ^ pint white stock, 2 tablespoonfuls cream, 6 button mushrooms, seasoning of salt, lemon-juice, and cayenne croustades. Method.—Cut some slices of bread two inches thick into rounds, cut each half way through with a plain cutter two sizes smaller, and remove the centre. Fry a nice golden brown in deep fat, drain, and fill with chicken mixture, prepared as follows : Mince the chicken, ham, and mushrooms into small dice; mix the butter and flour in a saucepan over the fire, add the stock, stir till it boils and thickens, let boil for five minutes, then add the cream and the rest of the ingredients; season nicely and heat thoroughly.