Croutons and Croustades flavourings, and if home-made one is sure of the quality of the ingredients; chutnee is also required to serve with certain dishes, such as cold roast beef, mutton, and curry, and it will be found useful for “ devils.” Home-tnade pickles are also to be much recommended. Glaze can be bought ready-made, but in large households it is generally made by reducing jellied stock, boiling it down to a very small quantity, which can be stored for use. Freshly-made Sauces. These are of two varieties—(a) hot sauces for meats and fish; (b) cold sauces for salads and cold meats. The former have a foundation of roux (butter and flour), stock, or milk; the latter of eggs, oil, cream, vinegar, or lemon juice. Croutons and Croustades. These are garnishes cut from bread into desired shapes, and fried in butter or deep fat; they may also be dipped in butter and browned in the oven; when done they should be crisp, dry, and the colour of amber. Croutons are cut in various shapes to suit the dish they are served with; generally in diamonds, squares, triangles, circles, and strips. For croustades cut slices 2\ inches thick into circles with a pastry cutter z\ inches in diameter, using a smaller size to cut partially through the bread; remove the crumb carefully, leaving a case with sides and bottom half an inch thick; fry as directed, and use for game or chicken patties, or any savoury mixture made of scraps of meat moistened with rich thick sauce. The lids can be made of quarter-inch slices of bread stamped in circles and fried. Bread Crumbs. White bread crumbs are made by grating and sifting crumbs of bread, but better still by rubbing it through a wire sieve. Brown bread crumbs can be made by making stale bread crisp in the oven, crushing it to powder, and then sifting it through a wire sieve. These can be used for dishes au gratin, and for covering rissoles and other fried entrees. A supply should be kept in a canister ready for use. Bread crumbs fried in butter or clarified fat are used as a garnish. I9