72 Turkey Hashed 39. Turkey Hashed (Brown). Ingredients.—Cold turkey, i onion, small carrot, i stick celery, i bunch herbs, i blade mace, cloves, peppercorns, salt, flour, stock, sauce or wine. Method.—Take all the skin off the roast turkey, cut the wings and legs into joints, and carefully remove all the meat from the frame in as large pieces as possible; break up the bones small, put them into a saucepan with any other poultry bones and skin, cover with cold water, and let simmer gently for two hours, flavouring the stock with an onion stuck with five cloves, a small carrot, stick of celery, bunch of herbs, a few peppercorns, and a small blade of mace. Strain off the stock, and remove all fat from it; thicken it with flour, and after being well boiled let it get quite cool before putting the pieces of turkey into it. Let it warm very slowly by the side of the fire, and make it quite hot without allowing it to quite come to the boil. Colour the sauce if necessary, and add a little wine or appetising sauce. 40. Turkey Hashed (White). Ingredients.—White meat from cold turkey, i\ oz. butter, i oz. flour, | pint white stock or milk, seasonings. Method.—Cut the meat into thin slices or dice, season with salt, grated nutmeg, lemon rind, white pepper, and salt. Melt the butter, cook in it a little minced shallot, but do not let it take colour; stir in the flour, add the stock or milk, and stir till well boiled; if possible add a tablespoonful or so of cream. Add the meat and seasonings, and let all heat gently. Serve garnished with fried croutons or sippets of dry toast. 41. Turkey Leg’s, Devilled. Ingredients.—oz. butter, mustard, black pepper, salt, cayenne, i teaspoonful chutnee. Method.—Score the legs deeply; mix the chutnee with a saltspoonful of made mustard, salt, pepper, and cayenne to taste, and an ounce of melted butter; rub this mixture into the legs and let them marinade in it for a little while; then broil over a good fire for about ten minutes, turning them frequently to avoid burning. Place on a hot dish, and pour the remainder of the butter over them.