96 Roulades of Mutton pieces, let the sauce cool, then lay the meat in it and gently warm it for fifteen minutes. Serve hot and dress in a circle, with the vegetables in the centre. 36. Ragout of Mutton a la Provencal. Ingredients.—Cold roast mutton, pint cooking claret, 2 oz. butter, 2 handfuls button onions, 2 handfuls button mushrooms, stock, seasonings, croutons. Method. — Cut the slices of cold mutton into rounds or squares, season with a small pinch of pepper and spice, place them in an earthenware or enamelled saucepan, and allow them to warm gradually on the stove. Then dissolve the butter in a small saucepan, and fry the button onions and an equal quantity of button mushrooms till yellow. Do not let them get at all burnt. Add enough gravy or stock to merely cover them, and let cook gently till tender, then add them to the wine. Place the meat on a very hot dish, keep the sauce uncovered while it simmers, and reduce a little; pour it over the meat, garnish with fried croutons, spread with anchovy paste mixed with butter and lemon-juice, and serve at once. 37. Roulades of Mutton. Ingredients.—Slices of underdone cold mutton, capers, stock, seasoning. Method. — Cut some underdone mutton into pieces about 3 inches long by ii wide; season with pepper and salt, put a few capers on each bit, then roll them all up and put on a skewer. Place them in the oven on a baking dish with just enough stock or water to cover them, and bake for about half- an-hour. Slip the roulades off the skewer, and serve on mashed potato with thick caper sauce poured over. Garnish with boiled carrots and turnips cut in small cubes, or with green peas. 38. Mutton Rechauffe (an American recipe). Ingredients.—Cold mutton, sauce, toast. Method.—Make a sauce of half a pint of gravy or stock, a little pepper, a small eggspoonful each of dry mustard and curry powder, three large teaspoonfuls of red currant jelly; when scalding hot add a glass of sherry. Cut the meat in neat slices, put it into the sauce just long enough to be heated through, place each slice on a piece of toast, pour the sauce over, and serve at once.