95 Mutton Olives 32. Mutton Mould. Ingredients.—i lb. mutton, 2 tablespoonfuls bread crumbs, 1 teaspoonful chutnee, 2 eggs, gravy, seasonings. Method.—Mince the meat and mix with the bread crumbs and chutnee, add the beaten eggs and a little good gravy, season to taste; press into a buttered plain mould, cover with greased paper, and steam for an hour. Serve with tomato, piquante, or brown sauce. 33. Mutton Olives. Ingredients.—Slices of cold mutton, veal forcemeat, salt, allspice, pepper, gravy, mashed potatoes, red currant jelly. Method.—Take as many slices of cold mutton as you re- quire, of equal size, and scatter over one side of each salt, allspice, and pepper to taste. Have ready some good veal force- meat, put a piece on one end of a slice of mutton, roll it up securely, and tie with cotton. Place the rolls in a baking dish, pour good gravy round, cover the tin with greased paper, and cook for half-an-hour. Serve with mashed potatoes and red currant jelly. 34. Piquante Mutton Collops with Potato Balls. Ingredients.—\ lb. slices cold mutton, \ oz. butter, 2 table- spoonfuls each of gravy and chopped pickles (piccalilli or mixed pickle), mashed potatoes, bread crumbs, and 1 egg. Method.—Brush the slices with oiled butter or salad oil, sprinkle with salt, pepper, and a few browned bread crumbs, and arrange them on the dish on which they are to be served; cover them with chopped pickles, the gravy, and a little pickle vinegar. Cover with a paper or dish and warm through in the oven; mix the egg with the mashed potatoes, form into balls on a floured board, fry them, and dress round the collops. Serve at once. 35. Ragout of Mutton. Ingredients.—\ lb. cold mutton, 3 onions, 2 carrots, 1 table- spoonful flour, 1 turnip, 1 slice of parsnip, 1 pint of broth, 2 oz. dripping or butter. Method.—Slice the vegetables, fry them brown, stir in the flour, and let it cook for a few minutes, then add the broth or water, and stir till boiling. Let the vegetables simmer for an hour; cut the mutton into nice slices or convenient-shaped