43 Cauliflower Salad sprinkle lightly with oil before serving. When used as an accompaniment to green salads, beetroot thus prepared is added at the last moment, or it would spoil the effect. 3. Carrot Salad, with Cream Dressing*. Slice some cold boiled carrots; make a dressing of cream flavoured to taste with pepper and lemon-juice, or with oil, vinegar, pepper, and salt; arrange the slices on a dish, pour the dressing over, and garnish with minced capers, parsley, or salad herbs. Suitable to serve with cold boiled beef. 4. Cauliflower Salad. Ingredients.—Cauliflower, salad dressing, mayonnaise sauce, garnish. Method.—Cut a cauliflower into small sprigs, wash well, and boil in salted water until just tender. Drain, place in a dish with seasoning of pepper, salt, vinegar, oil, and chopped chervil; arrange the sprigs symmetrically with a fork in a bowl \ when full, reverse it on a dish, to make it appear whole. Add some chopped salad herbs to some mayonnaise sauce, and cover the salad with it just before serving. Tarragon vinegar may be used in preference to salad herbs if approved; the flavouring is merely a matter of personal taste. 5. Chicken and Eg’g* Salad. Ingredients.—Hard-boiled eggs, remains of cold chicken, mayonnaise sauce, aspic jelly, seasonings, salad. Method.—Boil some eggs hard, mince some white meat of chicken, and prepare some good thick mayonnaise sauce, into which stir some liquefied aspic jelly. Cut the eggs in two, making the cut one-third from the pointed end, cut both ends flat, remove the yolks, mash them, mix with the chicken, flavour well with white pepper, salt, grated nutmeg, and paprika, and stir in enough mayonnaise to bind them; fill the larger half of the egg with the mixture, rounding it on the top; invert the smaller piece of white, and stick both flat ends with white of egg so as to make a vase shape, place them on a flat dish, fill the spaces with shred lettuce, and garnish with chopped aspic jelly in little heaps. Hand mayonnaise sauce (without aspic in it) with this dish, as that mixed with the eggs will not be sufficient.