mmm' IMS §lll§s 1! I JQ 83&&SB0 P? trt' ’*•?»“Clyde Villa, Clifton Road. “Rugby, “ Dear Sir,—I cannot speak too highly of yonr ‘ Rood,’ which in the case of my little hoy (65- months) , brought up entirely upon it, has proved in everyway satis- factory. I think you will agree that the enclosed photo of the robust and happy lad bears out what I have thought it due to you to say. “ Yours very truly, “Alfred Eyden.” For INFANTS and INVALIDS. MELLIN’S FOOD BISCUITS (Manufactured, by Carr & Co., Carlisle, specially for G. Mellin) DIGESTIVE. NOURISHING. SUSTAINING. for Children after Weaning, the Aged, Dyspeptic and for all who require a Simple, Nutritious and Sustaining Food. Price 2s. and 3s. 6d. per Tin. MELLIN’S EMULSION OF GOD LIVER OIL AND HYPOPHOSPHITES The Finest Nutritive and Tonic Food for Delicate Children and Weakly Adults. VERY PALATABLE. EASILY DIGESTED. PERFECTLY SAFE. 22101413813Med K8481 QUALLED2 Soups, Gravies, Stews, ihesy &c., use ^ 1 lb. makes 6 Quarts of good Soup by simply boiling in water. DESICCATED mm—m—am—mm Cookeky Book post free on application to the Sole .Manufacturers, F KING & Co., Limited, 3 to 6, CAMOMILE STREET, LONDON. PURE! WHOLESOME! DELICIOUS! ISINGLASSINE is confidently recommended for pre- paring all Table Jellies, Blanc-Mange and Creams on account of its Purity, Simplicity in use and Economy. ■< ASK YOUR GR0CERTQR> mpennyPacket WlttMAffilQUARTOEliebig “COMPANY’S” EXTRACT OF BEEF. FOR IMPROVED & ECONOMIC COOKERY. Makes the Purest, Cheapest, and Best BEEP TEA. Finest Meat Flavouring Stock for Soups, Sauces, Made Dishes, &c. Sole Manufactory— Fray Bentos, South America. Keeps for any Length of Time. BEWARE OF IMITATIONS. See Signature (as above) in Blue Ink, across the Label of each Jar of the Genuine Extract. COOKERY BOOKS (Indispensable for Ladies) Sent FREE on Application to Liebig’s Extract of Meat Co. Ltd., 9, FENCHURCH AVENUE, E.C.London: J. S. VIRTUE & Co., Limited, 26, Ivy Lane. Price 2s. SHOWELL’S Housekeeper’s Account Book FOR THE CURRENT YEAR. WITH THOROUGHLY REVISED AND CORRECTED TABLES OF DAILY, WEEKLY, MONTHLY, AND QUARTERLY EXPENDITURE. INTERLEAVED WITH BLOTTING PAPER. “A useful household diary.”—Graphic. “For people living in towns there is Showell’s excellent account book. . . . The arrangement is so complete that few establishments will fail to find it adequate.”—The Queen. “ One of the most complete works of the kind issued.” Daily Chronicle. “ It is also a day-book and cash-book, excellently planned.” Glasgow Herald. “ Some excellent practical hints on household economy.” Christian World. “For the housewife who wants to be thrifty and methodical, but does not know how, it must be a still greater boon.” Scotsman.London : J. S. VIRTUE & CO., Limited,26, Ivy Lane. Price is.; or fancy boards, cloth back, gilt, is. 6d. FIFTH THOUSAND. ECONOMICAL FRENCH COOKERY (or LADIES. By A CORDON-BLEU. “ Very useful and also readable. . . . We like her little book. ’ ’—Athenceum. “For a cookery book the work is singularly lively and uncon- ventional.”—Yorkshire Post. “ ‘ First-rate Receipts.’—Such an announcement is always 'satisfactory to the receiver. Everybody can participate in such receipts by laying out one shilling on a little book by Cordon Bleu, called ‘ Economical French Cookery for Ladies.’ There’s no speculation about it. It’s a certainty. The authoress ne fait pas une bonne farce with her readers, though she does with some of her dishes. ‘Plates’ and ‘Cuts’ will be supplied by the readers. The book is treated with as light a touch as a cook should employ in making good pastry, and will be substantially useful to the Household Brigade generally.”—Punch. “ Her instructions are clear and concise.” Galignani's Messenger. “ The lectures are very interesting, containing many receipts for delicious soups and dishes.”—Liverpool Courier. “We are agreeably surprised to find that the author has departed from the conventional cut-and-dried style of cookery books. . . . All ladies will be grateful for the splendid list of menus.”—Western Daily Mercury. “ Those who are enamoured o£ French cookery—and who is not 5—cannot wish for a better introduction to its mysteries than that offered by this pleasantly written book.”—Literary World. “ A handy little volume.”—Glasgow Herald.SOUPS, BROTHS, PURGESLondon: J. S. VIRTUE & Co., Ltd., 26, Ivy Lank, E.C. Price 2 s. SHOWELL’S HOUSEKEEPER’S ACCOUNT BOOK FOR THE YEAR 1894. With tables of Daily, Weekly, Monthly, and Quar- terly Expenditure. Interleaved with blotting. “ Indispensable.”—Morning Post. “A treasure to housekeepers.”—Saturday Review. “ An aid to household economy.”—Scotsman.SOUPS, BROTHS, PUREES WITH DIRECTIONS NOW TO TRET ARE THEM EASILY AND ECONOMICALLY. BY Miss M. L. ALLEN (Mrs. A. MAC A IRE) AUTHOR OP “ BREAKFAST DISHES,” “ SAVOURIES AND SWEETS,” ETO., ETC LONDON J. S. VIRTUE & CO., Limited, 26, IVY LANE PATERNOSTER ROW 18947.7, ((=<%'+ 1 LONDON I PRrNTKD BV J ■ 8 VIRTUE AND CO., LIMITED CITY ROAD. i uisTOR'0'5,1" < -A. / WELLCOME INSTITUTE LIBRARY Coll. welMOmec Call No. ar /8_R>VPREFACE. Believing that soup-making is but imperfectly understood by any but first-class cooks, I have deter- mined to bring out this small book of receipts for making it with such minute and clear directions, that the veriest novice in the culinary art cannot avoid a satisfactory result if she faithfully carries out my instructions. Middle-class housekeepers generally contend that soup is an extravagant luxury, but I maintain that is quite a mistake, for I know from long experience that a “ stock-pot ” in a household encourages thrift and prevents waste. All bones of cooked joints can be broken up and put into it; necks, gizzards, and hearts of the poultry, carefully washed beforehand, very much improve the flavour of ordinary stock, and which would otherwise probably find their way to the “ pig-tub; ” any little trimmings of cutlets, steaks, and the short bones that are sawn off the best end of a neck of mutton ordered for cutlets, &c., &c.vm PREFACE. I do not advocate a “ stock-pot ” being allowed to remain on the fire all day long, however, but think it should be clean and ready for use every morning, when all the pieces of bone and meat that can be spared should be put in it; then after lunch, when the kitchen fire is not much required for other saucepans, the bones and meat should be weighed and a quart of water allowed to every pound; this, with a little salt, should be boiled up, skimmed, and allowed to simmer not longer than six hours, during which time a little water should be added every now and then to raise the scum, which must be skimmed off or the soup made from the stock will be difficult to clear. The meat and bones at the end of this time must be strained off and the stock put in a clean, uncovered basin, and stood in a cool larder for the night, to be boiled up Avith vegetables next day and used as required for soups, aspics, gravies, &c., &c. In a large, and even in a small household, soup can be made regularly, and very good soup too, enough for a daily supply, without any extra expense at all, if a little forethought is exercised in ordering the daily supplies. For instance, what so nice for luncheon or breakfast as an occasional joint of cold pressed beef 1 Cooked as follows it affords five or six quarts of excellent stock. A joint of brisket of beef is required, weighing six or seven pounds, at seven pence a pound, best English beef. This should be put in six quartsPREFACE. IX of cold water, with a little salt and a dozen pepper- corns, just brought up to the boil, and well skimmed. Then it should be allowed to simmer gently for from four to five hours. The meat should be carefully lifted out, put in a dish with a board over it on which a six-pound weight is placed to press the joint into shape. When the meat is cold, it must be trimmed neatly and thickly glazed with good beef glaze that is sold by all grocers. The water in which the meat was boiled makes excellent stock that can be reduced in quantity, and thereby increased in strength, by being boiled rapidly with the lid off" the saucepan, which with the addition of vegetables and herbs is quickly converted into good clear soup. A boiled rabbit occasionally is not bad eating, and the liquor used for cooking it can be added to rather flavourless stock with great advantage. A boiled fowl every now and then is appreciated, and a good housekeeper, with an eye to replenishing the soup supply, will do well to order one every now and then. A boiled leg of mutton, or even the best end of a neck, served with caper sauce, is liked by many people, and the water in which mutton is boiled is most useful reduced and added to other stock, or used, as it is, for broths, oyster soup, or any soups prepared with milk. It must not be thought that I am recommending housekeepers to be continually providing boiled meats with an eye to the “ stock-pot,” as nothing is morePREFACE. X injudicious than to constantly repeat a menu. “Variety ” should be aimed at in providing meals, as well as that they should be digestible and nourish- ing ; but, whether at early or late dinner, it is easy to arrange to have two or three boiled meats during the week in most households, and where this is possible a good supply of soup is assured, helped out, as should be the case, by the contents of the stock-pot. I am by no means advocating the use of the water in which meat or poultry has been boiled, just as it is, for soup or even broth, but I maintain it is a capital foundation for clear soup, and can, with little trouble, be converted into it. Knuckle of veal and calf’s head are occasionally liked, and excellent thick brown and white soup can be made from the liquor in which they are boiled. It is a vulgar mistake to serve a large quantity of soup. A cook ought not to allow more than three-quarters of a pint for each person dining. Soup is intended as a preparation for the dinner that is to follow, to give tone to the digestive organs and not to take the edge off the appetite. I am speaking, of course, chiefly of late dinner. It is a good plan for a cook to have a little Bovril by her in case good soup is required at short notice. I have known excellent clear soup produced in half an hour simply from the liquor in which a rabbit had been boiled and the addition of an onion, a carrot, half a turnip and a tomato boiled up in it for twentyXI PREFACE. ninutes; a tablespoonful of Bovril added after the ^vegetables have been strained off. I mention these things in my Preface because, .although I give full receipts for soup-making in this book, I wish to call attention to the fact that a care- ;ful housekeeper can, by clever management, con- siderably reduce the cost of carrying them out. It is impossible for me to know what material each cook ;has at hand, and, therefore, I am obliged to give receipts for the production of soups as if everything used must be bought straight from the butcher, which certainly ought not to be the case, and which I hope I have shown in the above remarks need not be the case. I give then one receipt for making “ stock,” as I feel no book treating of soups would be perfect with- out it; but in all the following receipts for soups I take it for granted that a sufficient supply of stock is ready to hand drawn from that household treasure, the “ stock-pot.” M. L. M.M CONTENTS. STOCK. PAGE IBrown Stock 17, 20 ' White Stock 19 CLEAR SOUPS. To clear soups with raw beef and white of egg 21, 22 • Clear Soup 23 Spring or Julienne Soup . . . . .25 'Mulligatawny Soup . . . . . .26 Mock Turtle Soup 28 1 CroCites-au-Pot 29 Macaroni Soup 30 Poached Egg Soup 31XIV CONTENTS. Nouilles Soup PAGI . 31 A la Royale Soup . 32 Lobster Quenelle Soup . 33 THICK SOUPS. WHITE. Oyster Soup . 35 Soup & la Bonne Femme .... . 37 Soup a la Hollandaise .... . 38 Tapioca Soup . 39 Cream of Barley ..... . 40 Rice Soup . 40 Soup a la Royale ..... . 41 Cream Herb Soup . 42 Milk Soup . 43 THICK SOUPS. BROWN. Ox-Tail . 44 Mock Turtle . 45 Mulligatawny . 47Iri CONTENTS. XV Chicken Broth BROTHS. • • • • • PAGE . 49 Weal Broth • • • • • . 50 Mutton Broth . . 51 IRabbit Broth . • • • • . . 53 IPot-au-Feu • • • • • . 54 IPeasant’s Broth • « « * , . 55 PUREES. IBisque of Crayfish, Crab, or Lobster . . 57 A la Eeine • • • • # . 60 (Cressy • • • % , . 62 (.Chestnut . * * * • • . 63 (Green Pea • • • • • , 64 (Game • • « • % . 66 iHare • • « • , . 67 Potato * * * • • . 68 IPalestine . ***** . 69 ‘Soubise • • • • • . 70 > Spinach . • • • * . . 72 "Turnip • • * . . . 74 Tomato . . 75SOUPS, BROTHS, PUREES. STOCK, Which is the foundation of all soups. There are two kinds of stock—brown and white. Brown Stock. Enough to make Soup for Four Persons. Ingredients. Average cost. s. cl. 2 lbs. leg of beef . . . .14 2 carrots . . . . .01 1 turnip 1 large onion Sweet herbs 6 pepper-corns 2 quarts water. I 0 1 1 6 Directions for Making. 1. Break up the bone and remove all marrow, as it would thicken the stock. 13SOUPS, BROTHS, PUREES. i8 2. Cut up the meat into small pieces. 3. Put the cold water into a stock-pot or saucepan and put the meat and pieces of bone in it; then place on the fire. 4. When the water gets hot put in a little salt, not enough to make it taste salt, but only enough to cause the scum to rise, which it will do when the stock boils, and must be carefully skimmed off. 5. Cut the vegetables into dice and, with the herbs and pepper-corns, throw into the stock-pot when the liquor boils. 6. Allow the whole to simmer gently for six or seven hours (not longer), every now and then adding a tablespoonful of cold water to cause the scum to rise, which must be at once taken off. 7. At the end of seven hours the stock should be strained into a clean basin and allowed to stand un- covered in a cool place to get quite cold, when the fat can be skimmed off the surface. The vegetables must on no account be allowed to remain all night in stock, as they are likely to turn it sour. 8. When the fat has been taken carefully from the top of the stock it is ready for use, and can be con- verted into any clear soup, thick brown soup, or pur6e that is required.19 SOUPS, BROTHS, PUREES. White Stock. Thess quantities are sufficient to provide white soup for ten persons. Average cost. s. d. Ingredients. 3 lbs. knuckle of veal . . .1 1 lb. scrag of mutton . . .0 Chicken giblets (not liver) . . 0 Vegetables and salt as in Brown Stock . . . . .02 4 quarts of water. 6 7 3 2 6 This stock is used for any white soups or pur4e. Directions for making White Stock. 1. Wash the scrag of mutton carefully in cold water, and cut it up. 2. Break up the knuckle of veal bone and any mutton bones you may have, also the chickens’ necks and legs, and cut up the meat small. 3. Put all together into four quarts of cold water, slightly salted, in a stock-pot, and bring slowly to the boil. 4. Skim off the scum as it rises, and, while the liquor is boiling, throw in the vegetables, herbs, and pepper. 5. Add a tablespoonful of cold water from time toSOUPS, BROTHS, PUREES. 20 time to make the scum rise. The scum contains the impurities of the meat, which it is as well to remove. 6. Allow the whole to simmer gently seven hours, then strain off and stand to get cold. Brown Stock (Excellent). 2b QUARTS. ANOTHER RECEIPT. Ingredients. 1 lb. of trimmings of beef-steak. 2 lb. of trimmings of uncooked cutlets. £ lb. chicken giblets—the necks, feet, hearts, and gizzards. 1 oz. of well-scalcled bacon rind, and the liquor in which a rabbit has been boiled, li quarts water. 1 onion. 1 carrot. Half a turnip. 1 tomato. Parsley and a sprig of terragon. Directions for Making. Proceed exactly as for Brown Stock previously given.CLEAR SOUPS. To Clear Soup, No. I. If the stock for clear soup is made according to my first receipt it will require no clearing or colouring, but if it is required to make good clear soup from the ordinary contents of a stock-pot one must proceed as follows :— . Directions for Clearing. 1. Well beat up the whites of two new-laid eggs (if possible) with the crushed shells to a firm froth. 2. Cut some turnip, carrot, and tomato into rings, add them and the beaten-up eggs to the stock while it is cold. Whisk over the fire until the stock is on the point of boiling, then take out the whisk and allow the liquor to boil up, after which let it stand by the side of the fire for twenty minutes, then strain very slowly through a thick cloth into a basin. 3. If the colour is not sufficiently dark—it should be a pale golden colour and bright as sherry—colourSOUPS, BROTHS, PUREES. 22 with a little burnt sugar or a pinch of Crosse and Blackwell’s colouring salt. To Clear Soup with Raw Meat, No. II. Supposing the stock you wish to convert into clear soup is rather poor and flavourless in quality, it is better to use raw beef for the process of clearing rather than white of egg, proceeding as follows : Take half a pound to a pound of raw beef-steak (the quantity depends on the stock to be cleared, half a pound ought to clear a pint and a half), and mince it in a sausage machine, then take one carrot, one turnip, one onion, cut them in small pieces, and with the meat whisk into the cold stock, which must be put in a saucepan over the fire and brought slowly to the boil while the whisking continues. Just before the boiling point is reached take out the whisk, and when the liquor boils up remove the saucepan to the side of the fire for twenty minutes, strain very carefully and slowly through a thick cloth as many times as it requires for the soup to become perfectly bright and clear. N.B.—It will be seen in the foregoing receipts for stock that the proportion of meat to water is one pound to one quart. This ought always to be borne in mind when making stock; also in clearing stock23 SOUPS, BROTHS, PUREES. for soup if raw meat is used the proportion should be half a pound of raw beef to every two pounds of meat and bones used to make the stock; if white of eggs is used two whites and the crushed shells of two eggs should be used to clear a quart of stock which has presumably been made from two pounds of bone and meat. For beef-tea the proportion of beef to water on the other hand, is one pound to one pint or equal weights. Nothing is gained by making beef-tea weak, water can always be added after it is made if quantity is preferred to quality. Beef-tea should never boil, but be cooked like a custard in a jar standing in boiling water. Clear Soup. Enough for Six Persons. Ingredients. Average cost. s. d. 3^-pints of stock . . . .08 £ lb. beef-steak . . . .05 2 carrots . . \ 2 onions . . . I 0 4. Half a turnip . . I Half a head of celery J A bunch of herbs. 8 pepper-corns, salt. 1 5SOUPS, BROTHS, PUREES. 24 Directions. 1. Put the stock in a saucepan. 2. Scrape the lean beef into the stock, or run it through a mincing-machine ; cut up the vegetables small, and add them also and the pepper-corns and herbs. 3. Whisk the stock over the fire until it is on the point of boiling; then take the whisk out, and allow the soup to boil. Draw to the side of the fire, and allow to stand for twenty minutes to half an hour. 4. Strain carefully through a thick cloth two or three times, not removing the scum in the cloth each time, as it helps to clear the soup as it goes through it. 5. The soup should be clear and bright as pale sherry. N.B.—This soup can be varied very considerably, and is named according to what is served in it. In speaking of different clear soups, I shall refer to this receipt, and simply give directions for preparing the various things to be served in them.SOUPS, BROTHS, PUREES. 25 Spring or Julienne Soup. Enough for Six Persons. Ingredients. 31 pints of stock £ lb. beef-steak 2 carrots 2 onions 2 turnips Half bead of celery Half a lettuce Half a leek . A little chervil . t A few asparagus heads, or French beans or peas, whichever are in season Salt to taste. Directions. 1. Put the stock in a saucepan. 2. Put the beef through a sausage-machine, and then into the stock; also one onion cut small, one carrot, and one turnip. 3. Whisk over the fire until it is on the point of boiling, after which stand aside for twenty minutes with the lid off the saucepan. 4. Pour through a thick warmed cloth into a basin very slowly two or three times, until the soup is quite clear. Average cost. s. d. . 0 8 . 0 5 . 0 6 1 7SOUPS, BROTHS, PUREES. 26 5. Next take one onion, one carrot, one turnip, half a lettuce, the sprig of chervil, the leek and celery, and cut them up in equal quantities in long, thin strips ; also a lump of sugar. 6. Warm for twenty minutes in butter. They must not brown. 7. Boil these vegetables in a little of the clear stock for an hour and a quarter, and put into the soup-tureen. 8. Heat up the rest of the soup, and pour over the vegetables in the tureen. Add boiled peas, beans, or asparagus heads just before serving. Clear Mulligatawny. Enough for Six Persons. Ingredients. Average cost. 3 pts. of stock 2 onions . . . . . 3 eggs (whites) '. 2 tablespoonfuls curry powder . 1 lump of sugar. Half a cucumber 2 large apples sliced Salt to taste. 1 teaspoonful of lemon-juice. s. d. . 0 8 . 0 2 . 0 3 . 0 2 . 0 3 . 0 3 1 9SOUPS, BROTHS, PUREES. 27 Directions. 1. Put the vegetables, curry powder, sugar, and salt into a saucepan, bring up to the boil, and allow it to simmer three hours. 2. Let it get cold and then whisk in the well- beaten up whites of eggs ; whisk until at the point of boiling, then leave off and allow the soup to stand twenty minutes, strain through a warm clean cloth and reheat for serving. 3. Put the lemon-juice into the soup the last thing. 4. Hand well-boiled rice with the soup. To Boil Rice for Mulligatawny. 1. Take a cupful of best Patna rice, wash well in cold water. 2. Put into a cjuart of fast-boiling salted water, and allow to boil fast for twenty minutes. 3. Strain away the water, put the rice in a co- lander, and turn a tap of cold water on it. 4. Return the rice to the saucepan, stand it in a warm place with the lid half off, to thoroughly dry. 5. Each grain should be separate and unbroken.SOUPS, BROTHS, PUREES. 28 Clear Mock Turtle. Hardly to be distinguished from Keal Turtle. Ingredients. Half a small calf’s head . 3 quarts of water. 1 glass of sherry 1 head of celery 1 onion 1 turnip 1 carrot 1 bunch of herbs and bay-leaf 1 dessertspoonful lemon-juice 2 ozs. lean ham 2 cloves, a little mace and salt. 1 lb. of lean beef 2 ozs. of butter Salt and pepper Average cost, s. cl. . 2 0 . 0 3 0 G . 0 1 . 0 8 . 0 2 3 8 Directions. 1. Well wash the head in cold water and remove the brains. 2. Put it in a saucepan with water, slightly salted, and boil for fifteen minutes. 3. Throw away water, and put the head in three quarts of cold water with a little salt and twelve pepper- corns, and bring slowly to the boil; skim carefully, then remove to the side of the fire and simmer gentty, adding a tablespoonful of cold water every half-hour to raise the scum, which must be taken off, for four hours.SOUPS, BROTHS, PUREES. 29 4. While the boiling is going on cut up the vege- tables small, and fry them with the spice, ham, and herbs gently in the butter for half an hour; put into the soup when it has simmered two hours; 5. Strain the soup into a basin to get cold, and take off the fat very carefully. 6. Scrape the lb. of beef and add it to the stock, whisk well until the soup is on the point of boiling; then take out the whisk, allow the soup to boil well, and afterwards stand at the side of the fire for twenty minutes. 7. Strain slowly and carefully through a thick cloth into a clean basin three times until bright and clear. 8. Return the soup to a clean stewpan, add the wine, lemon-juice, and salt, also a few pieces of the head cut up into square blocks ; warm up and serve. Croutes-au-Pot Soup. For Four Persons. Ingredients. Average cost. s. d. 2\ pints clear soup (page 23) . 4 slices of toasted bread . 1 2 . 0 1 £ pint of shred fried vegetables, car- rot, turnip, and leek . 0 3 . 0 2 2 oz. butter 1 830 SOUPS, BROTHS, PUREES. Directions. 1. Toast four slices of bread. 2. Put them in a pie-dish and pour J pint of well flavoured stock over them, dry in the oven until the toast is quite brown and crisp. 3. While this is being done fry gently some finely shred pieces of carrot, turnip, and leek in two oz. of butter for half an hour till tender; the}' must not brown. 4. Place the crusts and vegetables in a soup-tureen, and pour hot clear soup over them. Macaroni Soup. Enough for Four People. Ingredients. Average cost. s. d. pints clear soup (page 23) . .12 2 oz. of macaroni . . . .01 1 oz. of scraped Parmesan cheese . 0 1 1 4 Directions for Making. 1. Wash the macaroni well. 2. Boil till tender in salt and water (it must be put into boiling water). 3. Take out and drain, cut into inch lengths, and place in the soup-tureen, pour boiling soup over it, and serve.3i SOUPS, BROTHS, PUREES. 4. Hand grated Parmesan on a separate dish, to be eaten with the soup. Poached Egg Soup. For Four People. Ingredients. Average cost. s. d. 4 poached eggs (Bantams’) . 0 6 2£ pints clear soup (page 23) . Vegetables .... . 1 2 . 0 3 Directions. 1 11 1. Poach delicately four Bantams’ eggs. 2. Have ready some boiling clear soup in a tureen. 3. Place the poached eggs carefully in the tureen ; if one breaks, the soup is ruined in appearance. 4. Hand some shred vegetables with the soup that have been fried carefully in butter. Nouilles Soup. Ingredients. Average cost. s. d. 4 eggs 0 4 Enough flour to make a stiff paste . 0 1 3 pints of clear well-flavoured soup . 1 2 1 7SOUPS, BROTHS, PUREES. 32 Directions. 1. Make a very firm paste with four yolks of eggs and fine dry flour (the eggs must be quite new laid); work it well and roll it out extremely thin, and dry it a little, and cut out in strips or into any shapes liked, then dry more thoroughly in a cool oven. 2. Drop the nouilles into boiling soup, stir gently for ten minutes • skim, and serve. Soup £ la Royale. For Four People. Ingredients. Average cost. 2 eggs s. . 0 a. 2 1 gill of milk or stock . ) Salt . . . . ) o ni v2 2^ pints clear soup . 1 2 1 41 Directions. 1. Beat up the eggs thoroughly with the milk or stock, and add the salt. 2. Strain into a small greased jam-pot and bake gently in a very slow oven for half an hour, or cook like a custard in a saucepan of water. 3. Turn out when cold, and cut into nice little33 SOUPS, BROTHS, PUREES. square blocks, which place in the soup-tureen and pour the hot soup over. N.B.—Unless the egg mixture is cooked slowly, it will be full of holes and spoilt in appearance. Clear Lobster Quenelle Soup. Ingredients. Average cost. s. d. 1 hen lobster . 2 0 2^ pints clear soup . . 1 2 1^- ozs. butter . . 0 H 2 eggs . 2 ozs. flour ) . 0 2 Salt V . 1 gill stock j . 0 2 3 7i Directions for Making Lobster Quenelles for Soup. 1. Mix one ounce of butter and two ounces of flour in a saucepan, and add the stock and some pounded lobster. 2. Cook these well until the mixture leaves the sides of the pan clean, then spread it on a plate to cool. 3. Split the lobster carefully and take out the coral, which must be pounded with half an ounce of CSOUPS, BROTHS, PUREES. 34 butter and rubbed through a sieve to be used for colouring the quenelles. 4. Pound the flesh from the claws and tail of the lobster and rub through a wire sieve. When the panada is cold put it in a mortar and pound to a cream with one egg, then half the lobster, pepper and salt, and pound well with the rest. 5. The rest of the mixture must be added now, the lobster and the second egg, and pound all thoroughly together. 6. Well grease a deep frying-pan, shape the mix- ture into little quenelles with two teaspoons and a knife, dip the spoon in hot water, take up some of the mixture, shape it with a knife dipped also in hot water, turn it out into the other spoon, and place in the greased frying-pan, pour boiling water carefully over the quenelles and poach about twelve minutes or less. 7. When done arrange the quenelles on a cloth to drain, and place carefully in a tureen. They should be bright scarlet. 8. Pour the hot soup over the lobster quenelles and serve.THICK WHITE SOUPS. Oyster Soup. For Four Persons. Ingredients. 1 cloz. cooking oysters 2 pints of white stock Cayenne pepper Anchovy sauce Salt Lemon juice 1 oz. of butter 1 oz. of flour J f- pint of boiled milk and 2 yolks of eggs or £ pint of milk and £ pint of cream Average cost. s. d. . 1 6 / 1 2 0 G . 0 2 . 0 2 . 0 H . 0 U 3 6 or 3 8 Directions. 1. Take the beards off the oysters and plump them by pouring boiling water on them, then cut each in three pieces.36 SOUPS, BROTHS, PUREES. 2. Take the oyster liquor and the beards and boil them in the milk. 3. Boil up the stock. 4. Melt the butter in a stew-pan and stir in the flour, add some stock to it gradually, and then pour the whole into the boiling stock, stir until it boils up and thickens, and afterwards for ten minutes to cook the flour. 5. Strain the milk into the stock and stir well, also the caj^enne pepper, anchovy sauce. 6. If cream is to be added boil it separately and then add it to the stock; if yolks of eggs, beat them with a little stock; remove the saucepan the soup is in to the side of the fire to cool, strain the yolks of eggs in the soup very carefully as it must not boil after the eggs are added, put in the cut-up oysters and the lemon juice, and stir until the eggs are cooked. N.B.—The soup must not boil after the oysters and es^s are added.37 SOUPS, BROTHS, PUREES. Soup ci la Bonne Femme. Ingredients. Some dice of fried bread. 4 yolks of eggs 1 pint of white stock Quarter of a cucumber 2 sprigs of chervil ) 2 sprigs of tarragon / 1 gill of cream 1 pint milk 1 oz. of butter A little sugar. Average cost, s. cl. . 0 4 . 0 8 . 0 2 . 0 1 • 0 41 • 0 2i . 0 1 Directions. 1 11 1. Boil the cream and the milk. 2. Shred the cucumber and cut up the herbs, fry them gently in butter for ten minutes, but do not let them get brown ; add salt and sugar to them and the pint of white stock, boil slowly for half an hour. 3. Beat the eggs up with some of the boiled milk, which should now be cool, add the rest and the cream, strain into the stock, which must not be boil- ing or the eggs will curdle, stir until the eggs thicken, but be sure the soup does not boil, or it will be spoiled. 4. Fry some bread that has been cut in dice, drain away the fat and place in the soup tureen; pour the hot soup over and serve.38 SOUPS, BROTHS, PURGES. Soup & la Hollandaise. Ingredients. 3 pints of white stock 1 oz. of flour ) 1 oz. of butter j 1 gill of cream 1 saltspoonful of sugar { 4 yolks of eggs . j ’ 1 gill of mixed carrots and cucum-' ber, shaped like peas . J of a pint of green peas, some [ q ^ tarragon Salt 1 tablespoonful of lemon-juice . 2 3* Average cost, s. d. . 1 2 . 0 2 . 0 U . 0 4 Directions. 1. Fry the vegetables and herbs slightly in butter, having previously cut out the cucumber and carrots in the shape of peas. 2. When they have stewed gently for ten minutes take out of the butter, into which stir in flour, and add the stock, stir until it thickens ; strain. 3. Mix the eggs and cream together, and move the stew-pan to the side of the fire, and when off the boil stir ifi the mixture of eggs and cream, stir till it thickens ; it must not boil or it will curdle. 4. Put the tarragon and previously cooked vegeta-SOUPS, BROTHS, PUREES. 39 bles into the soup, and a tablespoonful of lemon-juice, ancl serve. Tapioca Soup. Ingredients. 1 pint white stock b pint milk .... I tablespoonful crushed tapioca Salt and white pepper. A verage cost, s. cl. . 0 7 . 0 H . 0 1 0 n Directions. 1. Boil the stock, and when quite boiling add the tapioca gradually. 2. Stir well until the tapioca is clear. 3. Boil the milk separately, and strain into the soup. Add white pepper and salt. 4. Serve, with fried bread cut in dice handed with N.B.—A little cream is an improvement to this soup, and the yolk of 2 eggs may be also added, but the soup must not boil after they are put in.40 SOUPS, BROTHS, PUREES. Cream of Barley. Ingredients. Average cost. s. d. I lb. pearl barley . . 0 1 3 pints of well-flavoured broth chicken 1 0 Chervil ) Salt J • • 0 01 1 gill cream . • • 0 1 6 Directions. 1. Boil the barley in water for five minutes. 2. Strain, and boil in one pint of chicken broth for two and a half hours till perfectly soft. 3. Bub through a fine sieve, add the rest of the stock, the cream, previously boiled and strained, the salt, and the chopped chervil, and serve. Rice Soup. Ingredients. Average cost. s. d. ^ lb. of rice .... . 0 H 1 pint of milk . 0 2£ Salt, pepper .... . 0 0* 2 pints of good white stock . . 1 2 1SOUPS, BROTHS, PUREES. 41 Directions. 1. Well wash the rice in several waters. 2. Boil it till very soft in the milk. 3. Rub through a tammy or sieve; add the stock gradually stirred in, and the seasoning, and serve very hot. N.B.—A gill of cream greatly improves this soup. Soup a la Royale. Ingredients. Average co s. d. 1 oz. Parmesan cheese . . 0 1 3 yolks of eggs . 0 3 A little castor sugar ) A little salt . > 0 1 Four squares of toast 2 in. square ) 3 pints of white stock . 1 2 1 pint of milk . 0 91 ■"2 1 oz. flour . 0 2 1 oz. macaroni . 0 1 2 0* Directions. 1. Boil the macaroni in the milk till quite tender ; cut it into half-inch pieces. 2. Mix the flour with a little stock, and stir into the rest of the stock until it boils. 3. Strain off the macaroni from the milk in which42 SOUPS, BROTHS, PUREES. it was boiled, and mix it when cool with the yolks of the eggs; stir gently into the stock, which must be off the boil. Also dust in the Parmesan and stir care- fully. 4. Sprinkle the toast with powdered sugar and salt and put into the tureen with the macaroni. 5. When the eggs begin to thicken the soup (they must not boil or they will curdle) pour over the toast and macaroni in the tureen, and serve. Cream Soup aux Herbes. Ingredients. 1 pint milk .... ^ pint cream .... 4 yolks of eggs ^ pint well-flavoured stock 1 teaspoonful chopped tarragon 1 „ ,, chervil 1 „ „ parsley 1 ,, „ sorrel Salt, pepper . Average cost, s. d. . 0 2* . 0 9 . 0 4 . 0 4 0 3 Directions. 1 10£ 1. Boil the cream and milk together, and then set it to cool. 2. When almost cold whip the yolks of the eggs up with it, and when well mixed, strain into theSOUPS, BROTHS, PUREES. 43 stock, and stir over the fire until it thickens, but does not boil. 3. Cut up the herbs small, wash them and add them to the soup the same time as the eggs are added ; also add the salt. 4. Pour into a tureen and serve immediately. 5. Hand fried bread cut in dice with this soup. Milk Soup. Enough for Four Persons. Ingredients. Average cost. s. d. 1^ pints milk • • • • 0 3! 1 pint white stock, well flavoured with vegetables 0 6 2 oz. flour Salt, parsley • • • • 0 H 0 Hi Directions. 1. Mix the flour with a little cold milk smoothly. 2. Boil the rest of the milk and strain it into the stock, add the thickening, and stir till it boils; then simmer ten minutes. 3. Add the salt to taste, and strain through a strainer into the tureen, and when the chopped parsley is added the soup is ready for serving.THICK BROWN SOUPS Ox-Tail. Ingredients. Average cost. 1 ox-tail s. . 1 d. 6 1 lb. lean ham . 0 10 2 cloves ... I A bunch of mixed herbs / . 0 1 Half a wineglass of Madeira . 0 6 Celery ) 2 onions V . . 0 4 2 ozs. flour j 3 3 Directions. Joint the tail, and pour boiling water on it thr times, and drain between each time. 2. Dry the joints and fry them in butter, as well as the herbs and the vegetables and ham cut in dice ; add the stock after ten minutes, and simmer gently for three hours. 3. At the end of that time mix the flour with some butter in a stew-pan, and allow it to brown a little.SOUPS, BROTHS, PUREES. 45 Clear the fat off the soup, strain out the pieces of ox- tail, also the herbs and vegetables. 4. Thicken the soup with the browned flour and butter, stir till it boils, and then simmer for twenty minutes. 5. Add the wine, put back some of the nicest pieces of tail, and serve. Mock Turtle Thick. Ingredients. Average cost. s. d. Half a calf’s head • • • . 2 0 Half a glass of sherry 2 ozs. butter ) . 0 3 2 ozs. flour > 2 onions ) • • • . 0 4 Peel of \ a lemons 2 carrots. 1 turnip . 2 bay-leaves 2 cloves . . j " . 0 3 1 lb. lean ham 2 quarts water . 0 10 3 8 Directions. Fry the ham and vegetables ; cut up small butter. 2. Well wash the head and boil for fifteen minutes in salt and water.SOUPS, BROTHS, PUREES. 46 3. Throw away the water and put the ham, vege- tables, herbs, and the head, also the bones from the head (the brains must be taken out), into two quarts of cold water; salt, pepper, and cloves must also be put in. 4. Allow this to boil up, skim, and then allow to simmer five hours. 5. Take out the head, cut off some nice pieces to serve in the soup, and serve it separately either with parsley and butter or thick brown sauce. 6. Mix one ounce of butter and two ounces flour in a small stew-pan. Allow the flour to brown, then stir the thickening thus made into the soup, having strained out the bones and vegetables and taken off the grease. 7. Allow it to boil five minutes, and pour into the tureen over little squares of the head and the wine. 8. Serve forcemeat balls if liked with this soup, either in it or handed separately.47 SOUPS, BROTHS, PUREES. Thick Mulligatawny. Average cost, s. cl. . 1 0 . 1 6 . 0 2 . 0 3 . 0 0|- , 2 tablespoonfuls of Bencatachel- j lura’s Madras Curry Powder >01 and 2 tablespoonfuls of flour j Half a grated cocoanut . . .02 2 oz. ham . . . . .02 2 oz. butter . . . . .02 £ pint of cream . . . . 0 41 3 pints of the rabbit and cowheel stock. 3 11 Any good stock will answer the purpose of that made from rabbit and cowheel, though that is nicest. Directions. 1. Well wash the cowheel and stew till tender, with a little salt in the water. 2. Take out the heel, take the fat off the stock, and boil the rabbit and the ham in the liquor for two hours. 3. Grate the onions and the apples and fry them Ingredients. 1 cowheel 1 young rabbit 2 green apples 3 onions Salt . . ) Sugar, one lump jSOUPS, BROTHS, PUREES. 48 in butter in a stewpan until quite brown; add some salt; mix the curry powder and flour with a little stock, and add them to the vegetables in the stewpan; also add the grated cocoanut. 4. Cook for twenty minutes. 5. Take the rabbit out of the liquor in which it was boiled, cut the meat off the bones, and pound it in a mortar with the curry and a little stock. 6. Rub it all together through a hair sieve. 7. Take three pints of the rabbit and cowheel stock, stir the curry pur^e smoothly into it. 8. Add the cream, and rewarm in a clean sauce- pan ; it must not boil. 9. Put the juice of half a small lemon into the tureen before serving. 10. Hand rice with this soup.BROTHS. Chicken Broth for Invalids. Excellent. Ingredients. 1 old hen 1 lb. beef steak A little salt. 1 oz. of rice . 1 quart of water. Directions. A venge mt. s. d. . I t> . 0 10 . 0 Of 2 4* 1. Carefully draw the fowl and wash it well. 2. Split it in halves. 3. Take a stewpan and put 1 quart of cold water in it. 4. Mince the beef ; lay it at the bottom of the pan and the chicken on the top. 5. Put the stewpan on the fire, and as it begins to simmer add a little salt. 6. Take off the scum as it rises. 7. When the broth is on the point of boiling draw PSO SOUPS, BROTHS, PUREES. 1 8 the stewpan to the side of the fire and let it simmer gently for seven hours; strain, and put in a cool place. 8. Boil the rice according to directions given in “Mulligatawny” Soup, page 27, and hand it with the broth, as invalids generally prefer the look of the broth without the rice. 9. The fat must be carefully taken off the broth when it is cold, and it should be reheated to serve. If the broth is not especially for invalids, a leek shred and boiled for an hour in the broth is a pleasant addition, and the beef-steak can be omitted. The liquor in which a young chicken is boiled for the table makes very good broth if it is somewhat reduced and. has vegetables added to it. Veal Broth for Invalids. Very Nourishing. Average cost, s. d. . 1 0 . 0 7 . 0 1 Ingredients. 3 pints of water. 2 lbs. knuckle of veal 1 lb. scrag of mutton A little salt. A few pepper-corns A very little chopped parsley 1 oz. of pearl barleySOUPS, BROTHS, PUREES. 51 Directions. 1. Cut the meat of the knuckle into small pieces, and break up the bone. 2. Well wash the scrag of mutton; cut the meat into small pieces, and break up the bone small. 3. Put 3 pints of water in a clean stewpan; add the meat and broken-up bone, the pepper-corns, and 1 oz. of well-soaked and washed pearl barley. 4. Bring it slowly to the boil, and as it simmers add the salt. 5. Skim thoroughly and frequently. 6. After the broth has boiled up draw the stewpan to the side of the fire and let it simmer for seven hours. 7. Carefully strain the broth through a cloth and stand aside to get cold; then remove the fat and warm up for serving. 8. Chop a little parsley very finely and add it to the broth when you reheat it before serving as it improves the appearance. N.B.—If the patient is allowed to eat vegetables an onion boiled in this broth is a great improvement. Mutton Broth. If for an invalid, all the vegetables had better be omitted and half-a-pound of beef added.SOUPS, BROTHS, PUREES. 52 Ingredients. Average cost. 2 quarts water a. 3 lbs. scrag of mutton . . 1 9 1 turnip . 0 1 2 carrots . 0 1 1 head of celery . 0 1 2 onions . 0 2 Salt . . ) 8 pepper-corns l . 0 04 1 oz. pearl barlejr J 2 H Directions. 1. Put 2 quarts of water in a saucepan. 2. Well wash the mutton, cut it into small pieces and break up the bones. 3. Put it in the saucepan, which put on the fire and bring slowly to the boil. 4. Add some salt and the pepper-corns, and when the liquor boils skim Avell. 5. Shred the vegetables and add them to the broth when it is boiling. 6. Also add the pearl barley, which must have been well washed and soaked, or better still, boiled up by itself for ten minutes and then added to the mutton broth. 7. Cook the broth for three hours and then strain, return the vegetables to the broth and the pearl barley and serve.53 SOUPS, BROTHS, PUREES. Rabbit Broth. Ingredients. Average cost. 3 quarts of water. s. d. 1 rabbit .... ■ 1 6 1 onion ) Half a turnip j . 0 1 Half a pound beef-steak . 0 5 1 bay leaf . . \ A bunch of parsley ( Ho O O Salt . . . t 8 pepper-corns . ) 2 Ob Directions. 1. Put 3 quarts of cold spring water in a saucepan. 2. Take the rabbit, wash it well, joint it and put it in the saucepan. 3. Cut the beef-steak into small pieces and put into the pan also. 4. Bring slowly to the boil and add the salt and peppercorns just before the liquor boils. 5. Skim the broth well. 6. Add the vegetables and herbs when the broth boils. 7. Allow to simmer for three-anddialf hours. 8. Strain and put into a cool place to get cold, then skim off the fat. 9. For serving, either add a little chopped parsley by itself, or about 1 oz. of boiled rice.SOUPS, BROTHS, PUREES. 54 Pot-au-Feu. The French National Broth. Ingredients. 4 lbs. shin of beef . 1 old fowl or partridge . 4 carrots 2 turnips 1 parsnip 2 leeks 2 onions 1 root of parsley 1 bay leaf Pepper Salt 4 quarts of water Average cost. s. d. . 1 9 . 1 0 . 0 2 . 0 2 0 4 . 0 1 Directions. 3 G 1. Carefully remove the bone from the shin of beef and break it up, tie up the meat into a neat shape with tape and put it and the bone into four quarts of cold water. 2. If a fowl or partridge is used split it in halves and put it with the beef in the stock-pot. 3. Put it on a slow fire to simmer gently, and when it begins to simmer, add a little salt to raise the scum, which must be carefully removed. 4. Cut the vegetables up small and add to the soup when it boils up, also the bay leaf, parsley root and pepper.SOUPS, BROTHS, PUREES. 55 5. Allow the whole to simmer seven hours, then strain through a thick cloth into a clean basin and allow to get cold, when the fat must be taken off. 6. The meat should be sent to table with the vege- tables and a little of the liquor; the broth may be served separately with vegetables. N.B.—The great secret of making a good Pot-au- feu is to cook it sufficiently slowly and keep it at the same temperature throughout after it has once boiled and been put to simmer. Peasant’s Broth-Maigre. This is a French receipt, and the broth is as nourishing as a rich soup made from meat. Ingredients. Average cost, s. cl. 1 quart of water in which half-a-pint of lentils and half-a-pint of haricot beans have been boiled . .04 } lb. fresh butter . . . .09 4 carrots . . . . .02 1 large white cabbage . . .01 1 lettuce . . . . .01 2 turnips . . . . .01 2 heads of celery . . . .02 2 sprigs of parsley ) 2 large onions . . .02 Salt and pepper j 1 10SOUPS, BROTHS, PUREES. 56 Directions. 1. Cut the vegetables into dice and fry slowly in butter for half an hour. 2. Pour one pint of lentil liquor on the vegetables except the lettuce, and let them simmer in it for two- and-a-half hours till tender. 3. Add then some salt and pepper-corns, the rest of the lentil and haricot liquor, and the lettuce shred finely and boil up. 4. Toast some pieces of bread, pour a little stock on them in a deep dish, then dry them in the oven. Place a piece for every person in the tureen, and pour the hot broth on them; serve at once. N.B.—This can be made with plain water instead of lentil and haricot bean liquor.PUREES. Bisque of Crayfish, Crab, or Lobster. For Six Persons. Ingredients. 50 crayfish .... j or 1 lobster . . 2 ( or 1 crab 1 1 tablespoonful anchovy sauce . Half a glass of sherry A little cayenne pepper ) Average cost, s. d. . 2 0 6 6 . 0 1 . 0 3 Salt . . V ..05 i lb. fresh butter . ) i lb. of rice . . . . . 0 0| 1 quart of well-flavoured mutton stock 1 0 and d pint cream . . . .0 4^ 4 2 N.B.—This soup can very well be made of the liquor in which fish has been boiled, or the water used for boiling a leg of mutton, in which case the stock might be said to cost nothing.SOUPS, BROTHS, PURGES. 58 Directions. 1. Take the crayfish and shell them, arid remove the piece of gut from the centre of the tail as it is bitter, but keep the tail whole. 2. Take the rice and boil it for half an hour until thoroughly soft. 3. Pound the shells with butter and rice, and put them in a saucepan with some anchovy sauce or whole anchovies, a bay-leaf, a little cayenne, and the stock, and let it simmer for nearly three hours. 4. Pound the meat out of the crayfish (except the tails) and put it into the soup, which must only sim- mer. Let the fish be in a minute or two, then press through a sieve. 5. Add a quarter of a pint of boiled cream, salt to taste; put in the tails of the crayfish. 6. Warm the soup thoroughly, but do not let it boil; add the sherry. 7. Serve with well-drained fried bread cut in dice. If the colour of the soup is not a bright scarlet as it should be, colour with some lobster butter, which must be done in the case of making bisque from crab and lobster. It is made as follows :— LOBSTER BUTTER. Pound the coral of a hen lobster with an ounce ofSOUPS, BROTHS, PUREES. 59 butter \ thoroughly blend, and then rub through a fine- sieve. This will dissolve, if stirred into hot soup, and produce a lovely colour. Supposing lobster coral cannot be obtained, a few drops of a scarlet colouring must be used. If this lobster coral is not all required at one time, it will keep. Bisque from Crab. This delicious soup is excellent made from crab, which is easier to be obtained than crayfish. It is prepared in just the same way as the receipt just given, only the claws of the crab should be torn to pieces or shredded and put into the soup at the last minute, while the soft brown part of the fish and the rest of it should be pounded with the rice, as is the case in the crayfish receipt, omitting the shell, which has no colour to yield and is very hard. Bisque, if preferred, can be thickened with butter and flour in the usual way, and the hot stock poured on to it and stirred until it boils before the puree of fish is added, in which case only two ounces of rice will be required. In making bisque of “lobster,” the meat from the claws should be cut up into dice and added to the soup just before it is sent to table. The shell need not be pounded if there is coral or spawn. The sherry to be put into soups or purees should be either put6o SO UPS, BROTHS, PUREES. into the tureen and the hot soup poured on it, or, if that is likely to chill it too much, it must he added to the liquor in the saucepan a minute before it is removed from the fire. The flavour of the wine is best if it is not allowed to boil. Soup & la Reine. For Six Persons. Ingredients. Average cost. s. d. 1 old hen . 1 6 3 pints white stock . . 1 0 2 ozs. lean ham 1 bunch sweet herbs' 1 onion . . 0 H 1 carrot . > . . .0 6 1 turnip . 1 blade of mace 6 white pepper-corns b pint cream . . 0 9 3 10* Directions. 1. Split the hen in halves. 2. Thoroughly wash it inside and out, and remove all the dark substance from the inside, also the liver ; the gizzard and heart may be used.61 SOUPS, BROTHS, PUREES. 3. Stew gently in the stock with the vegetables for one and a half hours. 4. Take out the chicken, and take off all the white meat, which must be pounded and rubbed through a fine sieve. 5. The rest of the fowl must be returned to the soup and simmered in it for an hour. 6. Then strain it off. 7. Soak one ounce of bread-crumbs in half pint of boiling stock, squeeze the moisture from it, and add it to the white meat of the chicken, and smoothly blend the two. Add the stock gradually, and pass the whole through a sieve. 8. Add half pint of cream that has been boiled, and warm up the whole in a clean enamelled sauce- pan. 9. If not sufficiently thick, wet a teaspoonful of arrowroot with some cold milk, and pour boiling stock on it; use to thicken the soup. N.B.—This soup can be thickened with flour and butter instead of bread-crumbs.SOUPS, BROTHS, PUREES. 62 Cressy. Ingredients. pints of good stock if obtainable, if not, the liquor in which a rabbit, fowl, or leg of mutton has been boiled will do almost as well and Average cost, s. d. cost nothing Salt 8 peppercorns . Castor sugar 2 lbs. of carrots 1 lb. of potatoes \ pint of cream Or 4 a pint of I of 2 eggs 2 ozs. butter . 2 ozs. lean ham 2 turnips . | 4 onions . j / milk and the yolk 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Oi 5 U 4 2 1J 4 1 54 Or, if stock has to be made 2 74 Directions. 1. Cut the carrots, turnips, onions, and ham into thin slices, and fry in the butter gently for a quarter of an hour in a stew-pan, then pour the stock on to them, gently stirring all the time. 2. Add salt, sugar, and pepper to taste, and stew gently until the vegetables are quite soft.SOUPS, BROTHS, PUREES. 63 3. Press through a hair sieve with a wooden spoon, return to the saucepan, add the cream or the strained milk and beaten-up yolks of eggs ; thoroughly warm up and serve. 4. Hand bread cut in dice with this puree. Chestnut. Ingredients. Average cost. 30 chestnuts .... s. cl. . 0 6 3 pints of well flavoured stock . 1 2 1 pint of milk . 0 24 2 yolks of eggs . 0 2 Sugar | Salt, and > . . . • 0 04 Peppercorns J 3 oz. of butter . 0 3 2 4 Directions. 1. Take off the brown husks of the chestnuts and put them in cold water and allow them to boil. 2. Eemove immediately, and remove the white skin. 3. Fry in 2 oz. of butter for ten minutes; but they must on no account brown. 4. Add the stock gradually, and allow the chestnuts to boil until perfectly tender.SOUPS, BROTHS, PUREES. 64 5. Take them out; pound with 1 oz. of butter and a little stock to moisten. 6. Rub through a hair sieve and return to the stock, stirring in smoothly. V. Mix the eggs with the milk ; strain ; pour into the saucepan with the other ingredients ; stir until the eggs are cooked, and serve ; the soup must on no account boil. Green Peas. Ingredients. Quarter lb. of pea shells. Half a peck of peas 1 bunch parsley 1 lettuce 1 sprig of mint Salt Pepper . Sugar, 1 lump b pint of cream 2 oz. of butter 3 pints of stock, or water Exclusive of stock Average cost. s. d. . 1 0 . 0 1 . 0 1 . 0 1 . o H . 0 2 . 1 Directions. 1. Shell the peas and wash the shells that are going to be used and the lettuce.SOUPS, BROTHS, PUREES. 65 2. Shred the lettuce and put it with the peas, shells, parsley, mint, and sugar, into the butter to fry gently in a stewpan for ten minutes. 3. Boil up the stock and put in salt and pepper; when boiling add it to the vegetables in the stewpan, simmer until all is tender; then take out the herbs, and pass everything through a hair sieve and boil up once more. 4. Add the cream or milk, which should have been previously boiled, and strain and serve. 5. Taste the soup, and if more seasoning is required add it; sometimes a little extra sugar is an improve- ment, and sometimes a little more salt is required; season to taste. N.B.—Some cooks do not rub all the peas through a sieve, but reserve about a gill to serve whole in the soup. E65 SOUPS, BROTHS, PUREES. Game. Ingredients. Average cost. 3 pints of well-flavoured beef stock 1 old pheasant 1 old grouse .... 4 lb. lean ham Small bunch of herbs and a bay-) leaf Salt, pepper j A wine-glass of vin de grave . 1 onion and two turnips 1 ounce flour ) 2 ounces butter ) ' 1 gill of cream s. d. 1 2 1 0 1 0 0 2* 0 1 0 3 0 2 0 34 0 4$ 4 64 Directions. 1. Joint the birds and fry in butter in a stewpan until brown with the ham; add the onion sliced, also the turnips cut in the same way, and the wine after ten minutes, and then boil ten minutes more. 2. Put in the stock and herbs and the seasoning, and let this simmer for one hour and three-quarters. 3. Take out the game, remove all the meat from the bones, and pound with the turnips and a little of the stock; pass it all through a hair sieve. 4. Mix the flour smoothly with the cream and add to the stock, which must be stirred until it boils, and for five minutes afterwards.67 SOUPS, BROTHS, PUREES. 5. Add the puree of game and blend smoothly, add some brown colouring if required (this soup should be a rich brown, but not too dark), rewarm and serve. N.B.—Cold game can be used for this soup, then the meat will not require frying; the vegetables should be fried and the bones and meat added at the same time with the stock. Hare Soup. Ingredients. Average cost. s. d. Half a hare .... . 2 9 1 lb. lean ham . 0 11 1 gill port wine 2 onions . . . j . 0 6 Salt and cayenne pepper l 8 pepper-corns . . j . 0 2 2 oz. of butter ^ . 0 Q A bunch of herbs J 0 2 quarts of stock . . 0 8 £ lb. of beef-steak . . 0 5 A very little mace } . 0 i 1 French roll J ' 1 . 5 9 Directions. 1. Divide the hare into small pieces and fry them ; then put it and the beef cut up small, also the ham and68 SOUPS, BROTHS, PUREES. vegetables, into 2 quarts of stock or water, and allow to stew gently three hours. 2. Strain the liquor from the meat, which must be pounded and rubbed through a fine sieve. 3. This must be returned to the liquor in which it was boiled with the crumb of a French roll and 1 gill port wine, and simmered for half an hour; then it must be again passed through a sieve and rewarmed, but it ought not to boil. Small forcemeat balls, the size of a marble, are generally handed with this soup. Potato. Ingredients. 3 pints of stock 6 large potatoes Average cost. s. d. . 0 4 2 onions • . u i Pepper Salt and . . 0 Ob Sugar j 2 oz. of butter . o 2 \ pint of cream . • . . 0 9 Or milk • • 0 2 Without stock . . 1 4*69 SOUPS, BROTHS, PUREES. Directions. 1. Wash and peel the potatoes and onions. 2. Put them in a stew-pan with the butter for five minutes. 3. Pour the stock on to the vegetables, add season- ing and boil until perfectly soft. 4. Rub through a hair sieve, add the cream which has been previously boiled or the milk. 5. Return the stock in the saucepan, stir smoothly till quite hot and serve with fried dice of bread handed with it. Palestine. Ingredients. Average cost. 2 lbs. of Jerusalem artichokes 3 pints of white stock 1 bay-leaf 1 1 head of celery j A very little nutmeg Pepper, sugar, and salt 2 oz. of butter ^ pint of cream Or £ pint of milk thickened with flour ...... s. d. 0 4 0 1 0 0* 0 2 0 9 0 2i Without stock or cream . 0 10 With cream . . . 1 4£7o SOUPS, BROTHS, PUREES. Directions. 1. Wash and peel the artichokes. Plunge into cold water at once or they will turn black. 2. Cut them in rings with the onions and celery, put in a stew-pan with the butter and allow them to sweat ten minutes without turning brown at all. 3. Add the stock and seasoning and herbs, and simmer gently till perfectly soft. 4. Press through a hair sieve, taking care to scrape the sieve underneath repeatedly, return to the stock in the saucepan. 5. Add the milk or cream, which must have been previously boiled, stir very smoothly and serve. 6. Hand fried bread with the soup. Soubise, or Onion Pur6e (excellent). For Four Persons. Ingredients. 1 pint milk . 1 pint of cream Six large onions li pints white stock. 3 oz. fresh butter . 2 oz. flour . Salt and pepper and nutmeg Average cost. s. d. . 0 2£ . 0 4} . 0 6 . 0 3 one grate of > 0 1 Exclusive of stock . 1^57i SOUPS, BROTHS, PUREES, Directions. 1. Peel and slice the onions ; throw the slices into boiling water for a quarter of an hour, which drain away, and pour cold water on them. 2. Fry, or rather sweat in the butter, seasoned with pepper, salt, and a pinch of nutmeg, for a quarter of an hour. 3. Add the stock to the onions, and let them cook until perfectly tender. 4. Take the flour and pour a quarter of a pint of milk upon it and stir smoothly. 5. Put the rest of the milk and cream in a saucepan, stir the thickening smoothly into it, and continue the stirrring until it boils. 6. Add it to the stock and onion in the stew-pan, and let the two simmer together for ten minutes. 7. Pass the whole through a hair sieve ; rewarm (it must not boil) in a saucepan; add more salt if required, and serve. 8. Hand fried bread with this soup./ - SOUPS, BROTHS, PUREES. 5. Mix the flour with a little milk. Spinach (Maigre). Ingredients. A verage cost. s. d. 2 lbs. of spinach . 0 4 4 oz. butter . . ... . 0 4 3 turnips .... . 0 2 1 bunch of parsley . 0 1 2 onions .... . 0 2 1 head celery . 0 1 2 lettuces .... . 0 1 2 oz. of flour .... . 0 H Salt . . . . \ White pepper . . / . 0 n A few sorrel leaves, or l A few drops lemon-juice j 14 pints milk . 0 wh* CO 1 pint of water. 1 n Directions. 1. Wash the spinach in several waters and turn it about with the hands while washing it to free it from grit. 2. Wash all the vegetables and shred them. 3. Fry them gently for a quarter of an hour in the butter without browning them. 4. Add a pint of cold water to the fried vegetables in the stew-pan, and let them simmer in it until per- fectly soft and tender.SOUPS, BROTHS, PUREES. 73 G. Put the rest of the milk in a saucepan on the fire, stir smoothly the thickening into it, and stir until it boils up. 7. Allow it to cook gently with occasional stirring for ten minutes. 8. Press the cooked vegetables through a hair sieve (they ought all to be passed through easily), then the hot milk. 9. Mix smoothly with the vegetable pulp, season to taste, and reheat, but not boil, in a stew-pan. 10. Serve with fried dice of bread handed with the soup. N ,B. This soup should be a brilliant green colour.74 SOUPS, BROTHS, PUREES. Turnip. Ingredients. 8 large turnips 2 onions .... 1 bunch of herbs . . N 1 head of celery 1 teaspoonful of castor sugar A little nutmeg . . . Salt to taste . White pepper . 2 ozs. flour 2 ozs. butter .... pint of cream b pint of milk 1 quart of white stock or water. Average cost, s. cl. .08. . 0 2 . 0 3 . 0 2 . 0 4i . 0 11 1 8£ Directions. 1. Peel, well wash the vegetables and slice them. 2. Fry them gently in butter with the sugar and salt for twenty minutes, but they must on no account brown. 3. Add the water or stock, and let the vegetables simmer until perfectly tender, and take out the herbs. 4. Mix the flour with a little of the milk, and stir into the milk and cream, which should be put in a saucepan on the fire; stir till it boils and the flour thickens ; then allow to simmer until required.SOUPS, BROTHS, PUREES. 75 5. When the vegetables are quite soft, add the milk to them, and pass carefully through a hair sieve. 6. Season to taste. 7. Stir smoothly together in a clear stew-pan, and reheat, but do not boil. 8. Serve with fried dice of bread. N.B.—This soup should be as white as snow and as smooth as velvet. Tomato. Ingredients. 4 lbs. of tomatoes . 1 quart of stock or water. 1 head of celery 1 bay-leaf 1 bunch of parsley . 3 leaves of sorrel 1 tablespoonful lemon 1 teaspoonful of sugar juice Salt, pepper Quarter lb. lean ham 2 onions .... 2 oz. butter Quarter pint milk or cream 2 oz. flour Average cost, s. d. . 2 0 . 0 1 ) 0 2 . 0 3 . 0 2 . 0 2 fd. or 0 4£ . 0 1 3 3£ Directions. 1. Slice the celery and onions and put them toSOUPS, BROTHS, PURGES. ?6 sweat in the butter with the herbs, sorrel-leaves, and sugar, also the salt, pepper, lemon-juice, as well as the ham, cut up small, and stew gently for ten minutes. 2. Add the stock or water at the end of that time, and allow everything to cook until quite tender. 3. Take out the herbs and pass the rest of the con- tents of the stew-pan through a hair sieve, rubbing the ham carefully through as well as the vegetables. 4. Return the stock to the stew-pan, mix the flour smoothly to the cream or milk, stir into the stock and boil up. 5. Strain the stock and mix smoothly with the vegetables; season if required ; reheat carefully and serve with fried bread handed separately. FEINTED BY J. B. VIRTUE AND CO., LIMITED, CITY BOAD, LONDON.London : J. S. VIRTUE & Co., Limited, 26, Ivy Lane. Monthly, Is. Gel. THE ART JOURNAL Contains— High-Glass Etchings and Photogravures SUITABLE FOR FRAMING. A large Etching or Photogravure and full- page Plate, printed on tint, every month. “ Exceptionally attractive . . . There is an absolute em- barrassment of riches in the articles.”—The Times. “Oflate years many rivals have come into the field, but the pioneer still holds its own.”—Manchester Examiner. Sold by all Booksellers.London: J. S. VIRTUE & CO., Limited, 26, Ivy Lank, Price is.; or fancy boards, cloth back, gilt, is. 6 d. COOKING POULTRY ONE HUNDRED AND ONE METHODS OF. WITH HINTS ON Selection, Trussing, and Carving. By AUNT CHLOE. “ A. very useful and handy cookery guide, and one that is much wanted and will be much appreciated.”—Spectator. “ A very useful little book. ... It gives in a compact form hints for a variety of ways of dressing poultry and utilising any scrap left over from previous dinners.”—Queen. “This liitle manual by Aunt Chloe is certainly practical throughout.”—Glasgow Herald. “A very useful handbook; the information is easily acces- sible.”— Yorkshire Gazette. “ It is clear, practical, and plain.”—Guardian. “ The little book throughout is full of practical and useful hints, and is one that the thrifty and economical housewife would do well to add to her store of cookery knowledge.” Poultry. “ Variety of treatment and clearness in the instructions go hand in hand.”—Leeds Mercury.SIXTEENTH EDITION. London: J. S. VIRTUE & Co., Limited, 26, Ivy Lane. Price ix. ; or fancy boards, cloth back, gilt, ix. 6 d. BREAKFAST DISHES For Every Morning of Three Months. By Miss M. L. ALLEN (Mrs. A. MAC AIRE). “The question ‘ What shall we have for breakfast ? ’ is here answered in a practical way.”—The Queen. “A housewife armed with this little manual need never be at a loss to know what to order for the first meal of the day.”— The Literary World. “ The writer gives an appetising breakfast bill of fare for every morning extending over a period of three months. To housekeepers this little book is invaluable.”—Paper and Printing Trades Journal. “The book is a suggestive and useful one, and will no doubt prove acceptable to cooks and housewives anxious to break away from the existing stereotyped routine of the breakfast fare.”-—Newcastle Weekly Chro?iicle. “We have no hesitation in heartily commending this little book.”—Yorkshire Post. “A useful manual for young housekeepers and others.”— Bookseller. “ Supplies a long-felt want by housekeepers.”—Graphic. “ The housekeeper must be hard to please who does not find something to suit both her taste and her purse.”—Du?idee Advertiser.NINETEENTH EDITION. London : T. S. VIRTUE &Co., Ltd., 26, Ivy Lane, E.C. Price is. ; or fancy boards, cloth back, gilt, \s. 6 d. SAVOURIES & SWEETS SUITABLE FOR LUNCHEONS AND DINNERS. By Miss M. L. ALLEN (Mrs. A. MAC AIRE). “ Of great merit.”—Saturday Review. “ Miss Allen’s receipts are distinct as well as varied-.”— Liverpool Courier. “More useful than many of its more pretentious rivals.”—The Lady. “ So very adequate is this manual in its way that its cost will be begrudged by but comparatively few householders.”— Western Daily Mercury. “ The mysteries of omelettes, tarts, fritters, &c., are here made clear to the understanding of every novice in cookery.”— The Tablet.|$t amtfactnvzv# to tijx (Qnccn bp special Warrant* BROWN & POLSON'S CORN FLOUR HAS A World-Wide Reputation of 35 Years for its Uniform Superiority.London : J. S. VIRTUE & CO., Ld„ 26, Ivy Lane, E.O. LOVELOCK'S IMPKOVED MINCING & SAUSAGE MAKING MACHINES & COFFEE MILLS FOR DOMESTIC USE. They are unrivalled for simplicity and efficiency, and for promoting domestic economy are invaluable in every household. To be had of all Ironmongers. Purchasers are cautioned against imitations. J. F. LOVELOCK, Broadway Works, Mare Street, Hackney, London. ESTABLISHED 1856. Price 2s. SHOWELL’S HOUSEKEEPER'S ACCOUNT BOOK Pop the CuPPent YeaP. WITH Tobies of Daily, Weekly, Monthly, and Quarterly Expenditure. INTERLEAVED WITH BLOTTING. “ Indispensable.”—Morning Post. “ A treasure to housekeepers.”—Saturday Review. “An aid to household economy,”—Scotsman.THE PERFECT NATIONAL BEVERAGE. K0PS pion-AleoholicK0PS KOPS KOPS KOPS KOPS RLE AND KOPS KOPS KOPS KOPS Kops STOUTkops Guaranteed Bittered from.Hops only. BRIGHT! PURE! SPARKLING! EVERYBODY SHOULD TRY IT ! See Analysts' Reports and Opinions of the Press. NOTE TO PRIVATE CONSUMERS. If you are unable to obtain KOPS ALE AND STOUT in your neighbourhood, a case of three dozen pints can be had direct from the Brewery (Carriage Paid) on receipt of Postal Orders for 17s. 6d. Bottles and case, when empty, may be returned to the Brewery (Carriage Paid) and 10s. will be refunded. To be obtained of all Grocers, Confectioners, Restaurants, &c., &c. WHOLESALE OF DULY APPOINTED AGENTS AND OF KOPS BREWERY, FULHAM, &c. Telephone No. 8761. Telegrams, “KOPS, FULHAM.”