INCLUDING THE FAMOUS HINDHEDE COOKERY RECIPES A COMPLETE CHANGETOA HEALTHY SIMPLE AND CHEAP MODE OF LIVING DR M HINDHEDE 2f> ■NET EWART. SEYMOUR & C°II? WINDSOR HOUSE. KTNGSWAY LONDOKWCLEEDS ' |Y LEEDS UNIVERSITY LIBRARY Classmark: :— mmi (\ HiM 3 0106 01107 2930 I ) k why f i r- i it I1«5>cOicateO to THE ECONOMICAL HOUSEWIFEDk. M. Hin duede .WHAT TO EAT -AND WHY INCLUDING THE FAMOUS HINDHEDE COOKERY RECIPES A COMPLETE CHANGE TO A HEALTHY, SIMPLE, AND CHEAP MODE OF LIVING BY DR. M. HINDHEDE DIRECTOR OF THE “ LABORATORY OF NUTRITION RESEARCH ” ESTABLISHED BY THE DANISH GOVERNMENT IN COPENHAGEN. —AUTHOR OF "PROTEIN AND NUTRITION." English Adaptation by C. A. BANG A Penny Saved is a Penny Earned.” EWART, SEYMOUR & GO., LTD., WINDSOR HOUSE, KINGS WAY, LONDON, W.C.% Kxloq^S UNlVttf: .■ 1 UBRAM LEEDS" A striking consensus of opinion was elicited as to the effects of improper or insufficient food in determining physique, and this factor was acknowledged by every witness to be prominent among the causes to which degenerative tendencies might be assigned . . . Where the amount available for expenditure upon food is limited it is of special importance to get the proper materials, and it is in selection that the defects of English habits come out most prominently.” —Report of the Inter Departmental Committee on Physical Deterioration. INTRODUCTION The nineteenth century found England agricultural and left it industrial, but not until the last few years did thinking people realise that the increased wages, gigantic industries, spread of education, and all the thousand other changes which had taken place were being accompanied by a vague lack of efficiency on the part of our industrial population. Then when the century closed with the South African war, a great wave of pessimism and introspection deluged the land, and as that wave slowly subsides to-day, we seem to see the foundations of our national life washed bare of the conventional ideas that have covered them hitherto ; and as the engineers and the architects survey the substructures of their work after a flood has subsided, so do we to-day examine the foundations of our national edifice and try to locate the weakness which we know to exist. Without committing ourselves to a purely mechanical view of the universe it must be obvious that any decrease in output of energy of an individual must result largely from physical causes ; and though in dealing with a race a long interval of time is necessary to see all such physical causes in clear- perspective, some of them are only too obvious at the present moment. Amongst these the nutrition of the great bulk of our population stands out pre-eminent in its faults. No excuse is needed for an attempt like Dr. Hindhede’s to introduce some scientific system into the diet of the people. If the Englishman has owed his success in the past to eating both more and better food than his opponents on the Continent, it is not unreasonable to assign his present position in the race to a diet which, when compared with his competitors, contains less nutrition and is certainly worse cooked. Cheap food avails nothing if the food be not selected with reason, neither will a woman’s vote compensate a labourer for his wife’s lack of kitchen craft. Dr. Hindhede has tried, and, I think, succeeded in planning a diet suitable both for rich and poor, which should enable a labourer to do his work and the rich man to keep his health at a considerably smaller cost than is usual to-day. He lias planned his diet on the scientific data that are at our disposal, without flying into fantastic extremes on tire one hand, or, on the other hand, slavishly following those old habits of feeding which in this country are so frequentlyVI INTRODUCTION sanctified by time rather than by experience. It will be seen that Dr. Hindhede is not a fanatical vegetarian, but that he allows a certain quantity of meat. It is impossible at the present moment to consider the question of proteid in any way settled; in other words, our knowledge of feeding is too incomplete to lay down definite rules as to the quantity of meat that is desirable for daily consumption. Much has been written both for and against a rich nitrogenous diet, but it may be fairly stated that the majority of workers in this field consider that the nitrogenous (i.e., meat) portion of a man's daily food, though possibly essential, may yet be considerably reduced from the average quantity taken by the well-to-do in this country. Nitrogenous food, being chiefly meat, is expensive, consequently the poorer classes are not so apt to indulge in an excess of it as the rich. Dr. Hindhede does not dogmatise on these questions. He goes straight to the actual chemical values of foods which are known with great accuracy and can be calculated in the laboratory. Avoiding contentious ground, he gives us a reasonable diet at a reasonable price, and a diet that will hold good whichever views prevail on the subject of nitrogenous metabolism. If any working people will study and profit by this book, and it is for them primarily that it is written, since they stand to gain not only in health but also in pocket ; if they will compare its easily prepared and tasty dishes with the common meal of bread and cheese, and meat and pickles and the subsequent indigestion, and if they wall discard for once their prejudice against something “ only good enough for foreigners,” they will reap the benefit in increased health, in increased vigour, and in increased success. It is hard to estimate the gain to the community that would ensue from an improvement in the people’s food. There are evils in housing to be overcome, and better systems of sanitation may be practicable, but the social reformer to-day would have to look more to the manage- ment of the individual household than to the activity of the municipality. The marked decline in recent years in our infantile mortality has been due to the instruction of the individual mother rather than to the activity of the sanitary inspector. The state and the municipality can do little, the effort to-day must come from the people themselves. London, June, 1914. C. A. Baxg.CONTENTS PAGE INTRODUCTION. By C. A. Bang v PART I. THE THEORY OF NUTRITION : I. WHAT IS AND WHICH INTENTION HAS MY SYSTEM OF NUTRITION I II. WHAT DO WE REQUIRE AS NUTRITION ? . . . . 2 III. HOW AND HOW MUCH OUGHT WE TO EAT ? . . . 5 IV. WHAT THE HOUSEWIFE OUGHT TO KNOW OF THE VARIOUS ALIMENTARY SUBSTANCES . . . . 6 PART II. PRACTICAL INSTRUCTION : I. ECONOMICAL COOKERY, COOKING-BOX . . . . 15 II. THE ART OF EATING 15 III. MENUS : a. Dinner 1. Cheap Menus of one dish . . . ii. Cheap Menus of two dishes Rational Hindhede Menus : in. Menus for four weeks in Winter . iv. Menus for four weeks in Summer v. Examples of Dinners with Three Courses ....... B. Breakfast ........ c. Lunch ........ RECIPES, MEASURES AND WEIGHTS a. Porridge, Gruel, etc. ...... b. Custards, Fruit Soups, Stewed Fruit, etc. c. Vegetable Soups, etc. d. Boiled and Fried Vegetables and Potatoes E. Fritters, Puddings, Raised Cakes, etc. f. Egg Dishes, Preservation of Eggs G. Cheap Dishes of Vegetables, Meat, Fish, etc. 17 19 19 21 2 3 23 2 4 25 30 37 42 59 74 77CONTENTS vin PART II. PRACTICAL INSTRUCTION—continued. RECIPES, measures and weights—continued. it. Sauces ........ 8y i. Lunches or Suppers . . . . . . 96 K. Bread, Cakes, etc. . . . . . .101 l. Cheap Drinks ....... 107 PART III. DIET IN URIC ACID DISORDERS . . 109 PART IV. TABLE : EXPLANATION OF THE TABLE . . . . . . 115 INDEX . llCjWHAT TO EAT AND WHY “ On nous apprend a vivre, quand la vie est passes. Cent escholiers ont pris la vérole avant que d'estre arrive d leur lecon d’Aristote de la temperance.” Montaigne (1580). PART I THE THEORY OF NUTRITION I. WHAT IS AND WHICH INTENTION HAS MY SYSTEM OF NUTRITION. Were I asked the aim of my teaching, I should reply in a few words :— A. I want those who enjoy an income of ^500 a year to live in a much healthier way than they do really. B. I want to teach the man whose income is ^150 a year that he can live much cheaper than he does now. There is no need for him to spend is. 6d. a day on his food alone ; he can live just as well—and better even—on 8d. C. I want to tell the man whose income varies between £40 and £60 that he need not be in want—he can get sufficient food for 4d. or 5d. Such is the goal I am aiming at. Whether it is easy or difficult to attain the reader will judge after he has read my book and given a fair trial to my teaching. I want no blind followers ; far from it, I ask my pupils to be convinced, to understand what they believe, not to accept what I say because I say it, but to act on my principle because they see for themselves that I am right. Besides, recipes and new cookery are not sufficient ; to attain my end, one must know, long before the meal is on the table, how to prepare and mix its various constituents in a rational way. This can only be done by a knowledge of the nutritive value of the different foodstuffs—therefore the chief part of this book is the one relating to : What the Housewife should know of the Means of Feeding. By the above, I mean, that the main point of my reform lies in improving people's health, increasing their physical strength, and giving them a larger share of this life’s joys. Nevertheless the housekeeping side of the question plays an important part in it. When we think that a housewife can save from 2d. to 3d. per head a day w.e. bWHAT TO EAT AND WHY 7 by adopting my system, it means for a family of'six a saving of fi8 to ^25 a year. This amount can be spent on providing for other necessaries, whilst the children will enjoy better health. Children brought up on my system assuredly attain a greater growth, both mental and physical. They acquire : A. Better health, thereby greater strength and energy. B. More stamina, which will keep up their strength during the growing age, and facilitate it. C. They will from their youth have learnt moderation in eating. Do you not, my readers, believe that children brought up in such a way are better fitted for the struggle of life ? II. WHAT DO WE REQUIRE AS NUTRITION? Modern physiology compares the human body to a steam-engine. To set an engine in motion two things are required : coals and air. Coals are thrown in through the furnace trap—air is drawn in by the draught set up by the chimney. As the oxygen of the air comes in contact with the carbon of the coal at a suitable temperature, what we call combustion takes place, i.e., carbon and oxygen combine to form carbonic acid, and at the same time heat is produced. It is this heat which sets the engine in motion, by means of steam. It is exactly the same with the human body. Coals are to the engine what food is to the body, and we inhale the oxygen of the air by respiration. When those two bodies meet in the blood, a process of combustion takes place, forming carbonic acid, which we breathe out, and heat which we use for a double purpose, viz., partly to keep us warm, partly to set the human machine in motion ; in other words, to keep the brain, nerves, and muscles in activity. Such a comparison is instructive and important for my demonstration, for, as with a locomotive, we have to find a fuel that is as productive and active as possible, so we must regulate man’s food and look at it from the same point of view. Thus, numerous experiments have been made which tend to prove that the value of man’s diet must be in proportion to the heat-producing power which develops itself in the combustion—and to measure the heat produced by the combustion, a special instrument called a “ calorimeter ” is used. Hcat is expressed in calories or heat units. A calorie is the quantity of heat required to raise 1 litre * of water i° C. In saying that the amount of food required by man daily must contain 3,000 calories, I mean that, provided not a single particle of that heat be lost, it would be sufficient to bring about 61 gallons of water from freezing to boiling point. We must also consider under what form it is best to absorb the food necessary to produce these 3,000 calories, in order to live wholesomely and cheaply, and in so doing not to take trom the food the flavour which we think we cannot do without. Our foodstuffs, though very varied, are not so different as they generally appear. They contain in general only three substances in varying quantities, viz., albumen or protein, fat, and carbohydrates. Albumen is found in its purest form in the white of a hen’s egg, which contains from 10 to u per cent, of albumen, the rest being water. Then this substance is found also nearly pure in lean meat, about One litre is about 1 quart.3 WHAT DO WE REQUIRE AS NUTRITION? 20 per cent, of which is albumen ; the rest is simply water. Flour contains on the average about io per cent, of albumen and 60 pei cent, of starch ; potatoes contain 2 per cent, of albumen and 20 per cent, of starch Fat is to be found in almost pure form in pork fat, goose fat, butter, margarine, and in vegetable fats such as palmin and other similar substances. Carbohydrate is a common designation for starch and sugar. It is easy for us to reckon how many calories we absorb in our food if we know its chemical composition, for 1 gramme (or 15332 grains) of protein contains 4-1 calories ; the same quantity of starch or glucose gives 4-1 calories and an equal weight of fat, 93 calories. It is to be noticed that protein and starch are equally rich in calories, but there is a great difference in the price of them—in order to obtain 1 lb. of protein, 5 lbs. of thoroughly good lean meat are required, and at is. a lb. it comes to 5s. In many places meat is still dearer. From ijt lb. potato meal, 1 lb. of starch can be extracted, and it costs only id. One lb. of sugar costs i\d., and the same number of calories can be obtained from a little over 7 oz. of pure lard, the price of which varies between 3d. and 4d. Therefore the calories in animal protein are about twenty times dearer than those of vegetable food. Why should we not then live on potato-flour, sugar, and fat ? This, however, will not do. Our body, being essentially built of albumen, some of this must be replaced by our food. But how much ? That is the question. Until now it has been agreed that from one-sixth to one-fifth of our food ought to consist of albumen, and the amount necessary to a grown-up working man to be about J lb. of albumen, about 2 oz. of fat and over 1 lb. of carbohydrates, i.e., 3,000 calories per day. Such are the lowest limits of calories required, yet many men consume a far greater quantity of protein in the present way of living. To this I object; we do not require such a large quantity of protein. 1 maintain that, far from requiring 4 oz. of protein, we can do with 2 oz. ; and if one-tenth of our food consists of protein this is more than sufficient. There was a belief that protein contained in cereals was more difficult to digest than animal protein, and that it was therefore wise to consume half of each, and that meat, milk, and eggs should rank first. I believe I have established that such conclusions rest on false notions, for vegetable protein is as easily digested as animal protein. For the scientific confirmation of these statements I must refer to my book Protein and Nutrition. (London : Ewari, Seymour & Co., Ltd., Windsor House, Kingsway, W.C.) The problem is, therefore, to arrange our meals in such a way that we may absorb the quantity of protein, fat, and carbohydrates necessary to render our diet wholesome. J The fact that in my view by keeping to natural articles of food one cannot avoid getting sufficient protein, makes our choice a great deal easiei. Therefore, if you want to live cheaply, all you have to do is to try and get the raw material richest in calories. The housewife’s duty is to see that she buys good, cheap raw products, preparing- tastv dishes out of them. Should the calories prove too expensive in one commodity, cheaper and quite as nourishing ones can take their place By means of my table of foodstuffs (at the end of flic book) and a little trouble the housekeeper will soon find how to spend her monev to the best advantage. She will find there the approximate prices of most products, and she has only to calculate the difference of cost in the country or m town. eWHAT TO EAT AND WHY 4 At first my method may appear difficult to put in practice ; but what is not so at first ? Old-fashioned cookery is a routine ; it does not require much thinking. Yet the modern woman who takes an interest in the most abstract questions will soon find out that cooking is a real science and one worth studying, resting on fixed laws and in which there is no room for fancy. The consequence will be that nutrition, the foundation of strength in all beings, will become more wholesome, more rational, and more beneficial to health. After trying my method once, women will find it extremely simple and easy ; in time they will become so confident of my recipes that they will do their cooking without any more thought than they give to the old style. Nevertheless, my recipes must be followed at first with the most scrupulous care if the entire benefit of my system is to be preserved. It may be that some, afraid that my cooking might not be tasty enough, will hesitate to give it a fair trial ; in fact, some dishes are seldom a success at first ; however, it is wonderful how quickly people take to them. Those who, like myself, have tried many experiments, find astonishing results in this respect. Every housewife will learn very quickly how to suit my recipes to the taste of her family, as my instructions do not lay down invariable rules to be followed to the letter. Many people try my system once or twice a week and the rest of the time live as they used to do ; nevertheless they eat a smaller quantity of meat and more potatoes and bread. This alone is a considerable saving to them, and in most families such a saving is not to be despised. A number of extensive experiments, carried out over a long period by certain followers of mine, caused a great sensation and were considered as representative of the Hindhede system. But this is wrong. I have never adopted such fare as a universal rule ; yet such experiments have a scientific value ; they enable one to find out how far it is permissible to go. If we know the limits we can attain, we can form an idea of how far we can alter our way of living—a most important fact for all. And as everything differs in this world, no absolute criterion of living can be fixed ; this must vary according to income, habits, and ability. Since, however, it is proved that we require much less protein than was formerly believed, and can yet be as healthy, nay, healthier than before, I can only advise housewives to give my system a fair trial and thereafter judge for themselves. It is widely admitted that my methods are not injurious. Where the new ideas are not accepted it is not on account of the scientific side of the matter, but a question of taste and indolence. Besides, we, who lay special stress on a vegetable diet, although we may not prescribe it exclusively, can wait patiently for our system to triumph over all others, for the time will come when people will be compelled to adopt it through necessity. Should the population increase at the same rate as it has done in the past, before the present century is over, the lack of animal food, the production of which remains much the same, will be one of the best reformers of our way of living. It is a most expensive and roundabout way of doing things to feed animals on the products of the land, and then to use their flesh for man’s benefit. The enormous amount of food necessary to raise cattle until they are fit for human consumption is a dead loss to 11s. This is a question of figures and values which may well stagger us. Farmers may think that if everybody took to a vegetarian diet it would be an unpleasant thing for them ; it would not be quite so bad as they think. Old habits, tastes, and traditions are stronger than science. The change would take place so slowly that it would be hardly noticeable.5 HOW AND HOW much ought we to EAT ? However, even if people adopted the new system, course, be able to'dispense with the farmers. shape we take it must be directly or indirectly P^J^he tosers« mother earth. It is questionable whether farmers would be losers it the price of meat and milk were somewhat lower, provided that cereals, potatoes, and fruit rose higher, or at least remained at the level ; for does not the farmer spend an enormous amount of money in transforming vegetable products into animal ones . , . ,, tq If we reckon how much food an ox consumes from its birth until it is one year old and compare this quantity with the nutntaon contained in the meat and fat which the ox yields on being slaughtered, we shall find that it gives us back about 5 percent, of what it has eaten. The other 95 per cent, has gone in keeping up its bodily warmth dun g the vear. This does not seem to be good economy. After all, one would think it was quite unnecessary for me to teac Englishmen how to live healthily and cheaply- they have the best instructors in their own country. We have read a great deal lately about the miserable lot of the English rural labourer. We are tola that he only earns about two shillings a day and has to find his own food. That this does not give more than qd. a day for feeding each member of the family is obvious, and yet the rural labourers appear to be by far the healthiest section of the population. Their mortality is 38 per cent, below the average, and the mortality from diseases oi nutrition (diseases of the kidneys, hver and digestive system, diabetes and gout) is three or four times higher among the well-to-do, high- living classes in England than among the rural labourers. (See Protein and Nutrition, p. 176.) One would think that this fact alone, taken from official English statistics of mortality, would be enough to open men’s eyes. Are poverty and misery really the only means of persuading people to live rationally ? III. HOW AND HOW MUCH OUGHT WE TO EAT ? Some vegetarians maintain that we ought only to eat raw foods, all boiling, baking and roasting being unnatural and only diminishing the nutritive value of the foods. There is a certain amount of sense in this. It may be evinced with perfect legitimacy that the more “ civilisation ” advances, with its accompanying refinement of the art of cookery, the worse do people’s teeth become. But we must admit that in civilised regions of the temperate zones it is not practically possible for every man to go out into the woods and pick all the nuts, dates, bread-fruit, bananas and so on that he wants. To exclude bread from our diet would be senseless; but out of regard for our teeth we ought at least to select a bread as coarse and as hard as possible. The hardness of bread and its dryness result in its being not only masticated, but at the same time mixed with saliva. One cannot lay too much stress on this fact, that saliva is the best of fluids to dissolve bread. It is a very bad habit to soak bread in coffee or in soup before eating it. The after-effects have been proved by the following experiment: Biscuit was chewed in the usual way, then it was swallowed ; again, biscuit was crushed ; this powder was mixed with water and the compound drunk without having been masticated. An analysis of the contents of the stomach showed that in the first instance there was four times as much sugar6 WHAT TO EAT AND WIIA as in the second. Therefore, one must not wash down each mouthful of bread with a drink; on the contrary, one must chew it until it can be swallowed. Moreover, simple fare requires wonderfully little liquid. At any rate, on no account must one—as is the custom—drink a little after each mouthful. A drink at the end of the meal is sufficient. When once the reader has followed this method seriously, he will soon experience a feeling of lightness and comfort. But in order to arrive at tliis feeling one must be specially careful not to eat too much. For instance, anyone eating bread and butter without drinking anything will find that he eats somewhat more than when drinking at the same time—one forgets that bread and butter is a very concentrated form of food. A breakfast, consisting of oz. of brown bread, oz. of white bread, i oz. of cheese, f oz. of margarine, 2 oz. of coffee and milk, contains 487 calories and weighs altogether £ lb. In order to obtain the same number of calories with a breakfast consisting of barley porridge with milk, one would require, for instance : 1 lb. of barley broth, 10 oz. of skimmed milk, and J oz. of sugar, viz., 1 lb. 11 oz. The misfortune is that many people have dilated their stomachs to such a degree that they have become abnormally large, and therefore they must eat a much larger quantity of food to satisfy their appetite ; and were those people to fill their stomach with nothing but concentrated food they would naturally feel depressed. They would, in consequence, feel better with a smaller amount of concentrated food and a larger quantity of liquid, equal together to the same weight as their ordinary meal ; yet it would be still better for them to bring themselves to take gradually more concentrated food in a smaller volume. In this way one ought to leave off just when one is enjoying one’s food the most. But what we call being satisfied has a very wide meaning. Some people only think themselves satisfied when they cannot swallow another mouthful; others—and these are the wiser—find they have had enough as soon as their hunger is appeased. If all men came to take this point of view, I do not know if it would not be vase to abolish all the thin, weak foods, often poor in nutrition, of which dinner for the most part consists, and to confine ourselves chiefly to bread and butter and fruit, not forgetting potatoes. For my part, I do not believe in warm meals, which most people think they cannot do without. When travelling, I live principally on bread and butter, and mostly on coarse brown bread (not bolted) and on fruit. But people must have their hot meals, and this compels the writer of a book of cookery to comply with their taste. IV. WHAT THE HOUSEWIFE OUGHT TO KNOW OF THE VARIOUS ALIMENTARY SUBSTANCES. The first question a woman asks herself when she has the housekeeping to do is : What food shall I buy ? Such a question has many sides, but the main points to be studied aie health, cost, and taste. I give those three points in the order of their importance in my opinion, though the usual order in which they are considered is the exact opposite. Our duty lies foremost in pointing out wholesome and cheap foodstuffs, leaving to the housekeeper to decide the question of taste. If she knows what she ought to do, it will not be difficult for a clever woman to choose cheap food and to prepare it m an appetising way. First of all I shall ask the housekeepei to study m\ table of foodstuffs, beginning with twenty-two variousALIMENTARY SUBSTANCES 7 CEREALS either whole or ground. They hold the foremost place for cheapness, and are besides remarkably wholesome, a point which is not to be despised. They ought, therefore, to form the basis of our food. It must be emphatically observed that cereals contain more than enough protein for our requirements. About one-eighth of the contents is protein, and I maintain that we can subsist on a smaller quantity. Oatmeal is the richest of all in protein, and on this account is specially valued for its strength-giving power, which, in my opinion, is unfounded. Cereals vary very much in price, but there is not the slightest obj ection to buying the cheaper kinds, as the difference in nutritive power is nil. With meat, the best quality must be preferred. From Nos. 19 to 22 of the table (Potato-Flour, Sago, Rice-Flour, etc.) are various foodstuffs which are distinguished by the separation of their protein, leaving the starch almost pure. This shows that anyone trying to live on potato-flour alone would not absorb a sufficient quantity of protein. The only fault of cereals is too little fat. This is the reason why they must be prepared with some kind of fat, and why bread had better be eaten with butter ; but, of course, if we eat too much butter our expenses will be much higher than need be. Nos. 23 to 35 (Wholemeal Bread, White Bread, Fancy Bread, etc.) bring us to BREAD. I have praised bread so highly that I have little more to add to what I have already said. It is most important that bread must be well baked. Home-made bread, provided the dough is well kneaded, is a great saving, and is, in my opinion, far superior to baker’s bread. There have been endless discussions as to whether fine white bread {i.e., bread made of the best white flour) or coarse bread (■i.e., bread made of the whole meal, as brown or Standard bread) is best. Å lar°-e number of investigations in recent years have now made the matter clear. There are certain substances in and around the husk of tire grain that appear to be quite necessary for the maintenance of health. The Indians and Japanese fall ill when living chiefly on polished rice ; that is, rice from which the outer husk has been removed, while they keep well when eating unpolished rice. Monkeys die in the course of a few months when they are fed on white bread. It is therefore a mistake to eat only fine bread, and it would be an immense advantage to the people if they could return to the coarse bread made of unbolted flour which their forefathers presumably consumed, and which still forms the chief article of diet m Denmark. Furthermore, it is probably an advantage that the meal be not onlv unbolted, but ground as coarsely as possible. One would think bread made of such coarse meal must be difficult to digest, but this is bv no SS8^,0.0^* Weu aVC gr°und wheat by Land-power in a large coffee-mill, the resulting meal was very coarse and we could find half-grams among it Two experimental subjects lived for several months on bread made of this coarse meal (see Recipe No 24 s) with margarine. They did extremely well on this, and the remarkable thing was that the bread was digested almost as completely as bread made of finer flour But of course such bread as 1 am speaking of requires more careful mastication. The final grinding has to be doneWHAT TO EAT AND WHY s by the teeth. But it is probable that the teeth benefit greatly by this work. As we can sec in our museums, the people of the Stone’Age had lar better teeth than we ; but they had no mills, they simply crushed the wheat between two stones. Nowadays we have to go to uncivilised races to find good teeth. It is probably our modern mills and our modern cookery that ruin our teeth and our health generally. Under the heading of bread must be classed all kinds of BISCUITS. Some pastries—cakes, rusks, etc., etc.—can quite take the place of bread; they are even better, because they must be more thoroughly masticated than bread in order to soften and swallow them ; but, as a rule, they are more expensive. Soft, greasy, and very sweet cakes are not advisable. First, because they require very little chewing and they are too rich ; secondly, because sweet things eaten in too large a quantity spoil both appetite and the taste. Moreover, we expose ourselves to a danger of which we shall speak when we discuss the question of SUGAR. Sugar is not a natural, but a manufactured product which man has learnt to extract from various plants. The employment, on a large scale, of chemically pure produqts is, however, always a rather question- able proceeding, as they lack the salts that are found in natural products. These salts of potassium, sodium, lime, magnesia and iron are as necessary to us as protein, fat and carbohydrates. This has not been until lately taken enough into consideration. I have no intention to advise my fellow men to abstain entirely from eating sugar, all I want to point out is the danger of eating too much of it. For those who are fond of sweet things there are plenty of sweet fruits which contain a proper amount of salts and are far superior to sugar, sweet pastries and cakes. It is a well-known fact that sugar spoils the teeth, and this might be attributed to sweet food containing too little lime. If, besides sugar, people eat much fine bread and meat, two products lacking lime, the result is that the organs, unable to find the necessary lime in the food, take it where they can find it, i.c., from the teeth. Hence the conclusion that sugar must be used in a limited quantity. Honey would be preferable were it not expensive. By the way, it is not only salts which are lacking in fine flour and sugar. The next group, from Nos. 39 to 47, include the FAT PRODUCTS. BUTTER holds the first place amongst fat substances, but the price of it is somewhat high. A’et, in proportion to the amount of nourishment contained, the price of it is not as expensive as one would think at the first glance. Two and a quarter lbs. (1 kilo) of butter gives 8,000 calories, against 1,000 furnished by the same weight of lean meat, and good meat is very nearly the same price as butter. Let us see how much it costs to cat butter with our bread. Supposing9 ALIMENTARY SUBSTANCES we are living on nothing else but bread and butter, and we lequire 2,500 calories daily, we should find that : Protein. Fat. Calories. Price £ lb. White Bread contains . 26-4 — 792 1 d. 1 lb. Wholemeal Bread contains 36-0 — 900 ii d. £ lb. Butter contains 86 800 3 d. 62‘4 86 2,492 w-j Suppose we take margarine instead of butter, or a mixture of margarine and butter (4 lbs. at 6d. and 1 lb. at is.), we save i jd. But one does not live only on bread and butter, although, as regards its composition, there would seem to be nothing against this diet. I want to point out a frequent mistake made by mothers who want to teach their children economy, and I shall give an example. For supper, smoked sausage and green peas were served. For my part I ate bread and butter with it, but an economical mother told her son that he was not to butter his bread, as it was waste. The consequence was that the boy only ate a quarter of a slice of brown bread, but double the quantity of sausage which I had, whilst I swallowed three slices of bread with butter. If we reckon the nutritive value we would find that not only did I have a much larger share of nourishment for the price, but my supper was far more sensible than the boy’s, as the latter consumed too much protein. Bread and butter is cheap as a rule and one can advantageously make a meal of it either morning or evening. One can also eat much more bread if it is buttered than if it is dry ; for the same reason it is economical to eat sauce or gravy with meat. By dipping bread and potato in the gravy we can absorb a greater quantity of those two nourishing ingredients and require less meat. Nations who eat their meat without gravy consume a much larger quantity. When a woman finds butter too expensive, it is, as a rule, because she is extravagant with it. I like bread with not too much butter on it, and yet my body gets more fatty substances than it needs. All that is necessary for me is less than £ oz. of butter to 2 oz. of bread. However, I have seen people use double that quantity of butter on half the amount of bread, and, in that case, living on this fare would mean, in order to consume 2,500 calories, an expense of Protein. Fat. Calories. Price, 6 oz. White Bread 13-2 — 39b id. 9 oz. Brown Bread 20-6 — 520 if d. 7 oz. Butter — 172 1,600 5i d. 33'8 172 2,51b 7&- It is to be noticed that with such a diet the amount of protein is very small, whilst the quantity of fat is out of proportion, and yet one does not feel satisfied after it. One absorbs only about 1 lb. 6 oz. of real nourishment, whilst, according to the first-named composition I get 1 lb. 15 oz. In order to get the equivalent of this with the larger proportion of butter, one would require to consume one and two-fifth times as much; thus absorbing 48 protein, 242 of fat, and 3,551 calories at a cost of 11 d. People would also realise that bread and butter is not so cheap after all. The amount of food to be swallowed would be too great, stoutness would ensue, and health would probably suffer10 WHAT TO EAT AND WHY loo rich food is also lacking in the necessary salts. Should one’s means be too small to enable one to buy butter, lard, margarine, cocoa- butter, palmine, etc., can be substituted. MARGARINE must be given the preference wherever the question of price has to be considered. It contains the same food value as butter, and especially vegetable margarine, with its low melting point and easily digestible fats, can in every respect replace butter, giving the same amount of nourishment for about one-third of the price. PALMINE is used principally in cooking, but some people like to spread it on bread. MILK (Nos. 48 to 51 on the list) is a foodstuff to which great interest is attached. Nobody can deny that in milk we find a natural article of food. We might say that it is the only one we can safely call natural, and this is why it is always mentioned as a food sufficient in itself for weakened constitutions. Let us first analyse cow’s milk. If most of the cream is left it contains about 3-5 per cent, of albumen, 37 per cent, of fat, and 4-9 per cent, of sugar. One quart of milk gives 144 calories through albumen and 544 through fat and sugar, and about one-fifth of the milk calories are provided by the albumen. The richness of milk in protein is at the base of the belief that we do require a great deal of protein. Yet an objection can be made. People forget that cow’s milk is not a natural food for man. If we take human milk we find it is composed of i-6 per cent, of albumen, 3-9 per cent, of fat, and 6-i per cent, of sugar, which is giving only one-tenth of the calories from albumen. This is the child’s natural food. Granted a full-grown man requires albumen in the same proportion, he would" need to absorb or 300 calories through albumen, which makes 2 oz. of protein. Is it not, then, evident that the amount of protein given as necessary according to the old standard is two and a half times too large ? It is obvious that a growing child must require comparatively more protein than a grown-up person. If, therefore, the former can be satisfied when one-tenth of its nourishment be protein, the grown-up person must certainly be able to do with a great deal less. The above remarks lead us to the conclusion that cow’s milk is not the natural food for man that it was believed to be. The albumen is far too great in proportion compared with the other substances, and the difference is still greater in skimmed milk, viz., in milk robbed of its fat. I know it is fighting against a strong conviction to speak of milk as I do. At the time when people believed in the necessity of a large amount of albumen, milk was proved to be an essential article of food ; therefore the public thought that one could never take too much of it, and this deep-rooted belief cannot easily be eradicated. Yet there are people who cannot digest milk either pure or in dishes, and who, on the contrary, prefer food containing water. Again, milk is a dangerous propagator of tuberculosis when it comes from cows suffering from this disease, and when it has not been pasteurised. Unfortunately, boiled milk is also not without its dangers, especially to children ; it is more difficult to digest than raw milk. It is not, then, without great reason that so many people dislike the taste of boiled milk, and no one should be compelled to drink it. BUTTERMILK (Nos. 52 to 54 on the list) is as healthy a beverage in itself as junket is a wholesome food. In Denmark, however, these articles of food are not always treated andii ALIMENTARY SUBSTANCES prepared as carefully as they ought to be. Whether the same is true of England I do not know. CREAM (Nos. 55 to 57 on the list) is expensive in towns. In the country it is cheap as a rule, and it can easily be substituted for butter. But cream, even more than milk, requires careful examination. In no article of diet does the housewife get more cheated than in cream, for whether it contains 6 per cent, or 25 per cent, of fat, it is all called cream. CHEESE (Nos. 58 to 70 on the list), holds a prominent place on account of the large quantity of protein it contains. I really do not see why cheese should he so highly recommended. The only tiring that can be said is that for people who wish to eat something with their bread and butter, cheese is probably more wholesome, and—expensive kinds excepted—cheaper than meat. But it must not be forgotten that the bacillus of tuberculosis is to be found in cheese, and it is therefore wise to pasteurise the milk before making cheese. However, all danger of bacilli disappears after three months. EGGS (Nos. 71 to 74 on the list) have the reputation of being very strengthening, and this is not to be wondered at when one takes into account the faith in albumen. Few people know that white of egg contains little more albumen than cereals, weight for weight. The only difference is that the white of egg is mainly composed of water, whilst wheat contains besides the albumen 60 per cent, of starch, which represents for us one of our most valuable articles of food. With the albumen, hens’ eggs contain, including the yolk, ir per cent. fat. It is easy to see that with such a mixture of almost equal parts of albumen and fat, eggs are not a fit nourishment for human beings. Attempts to live on eggs alone will therefore prove to be a failure. I say, then, away with exaggerated estimates of the value of eggs ; eggs are a luxury and should only be used in small quantities, especially as auxiliaries in the preparation of dishes. It is astonishing how the use of eggs in the preparation of dishes can be minimised without altering the taste. Nos. 75 to 79 bring us to PULSES—PEAS, BEANS, AND LENTILS. This group forms in great measure the basis of vegetarian cookery. Here one can get enough protein without the help of meat. I do not ay any particular stress on these pulses for the sake of their protein, but they can to a certain extent serve as a change now and then. The next group (Nos. 80 to 84) is formed of fatty fruits. PEANUTS, NUTS, AND ALMONDS. These are held in still greater esteem than the preceding group by vegetarians as besides much protein, they contain, above all, a great deal of fat. L uts are, of course, very good in themselves, but as one12 What to eat and wi-iy can get animal fat at the same price as butter, in the form of butter or margarine, I should advise their use. Then we come to FRUITS (Nos. 85 to 116 on the list) proper ; there is not the slightest doubt that fruit is a valuable item of our fare. It is not to be denied that the structure of our teeth is conclusive evidence of our being naturally fruit eaters. Fresh fruit contains a great deal of water ; you think you are getting something, but you are really getting very little. Were we to eat nothing but apples we should have to eat fully 13 lbs. a day to ensure absorbing the necessary 3,000 calories ; with the same view, 29 lbs. of tomatoes would be required. No wonder, then, that vegetarians have failed in their attempt to live on nothing else but fruit. If dry fruit be used instead, then the result is more fortunate. The only point is that dry fruit lacks fat, but as this can be remedied by the addition of fatty fruit, spoken of in the previous group, it is evident that nothing ought to prevent us making our entire diet of fruit. It would, however, be an expensive way of living. This group goes extremely well with cereals and fat foodstuffs, which it supplements, being very much richer in salts. This is why I mix fruit with porridge and groats, and why I eat jam, apple marmalade, stewed plums, etc., with bread and butter. The aperient effect of fruit is often very useful, but, like everything else, it can be over done. We need but think of the frequency of stomach-ache during the plum season. Tomatoes I recommend. Their nutritive power is slight, it is true, but as an addition to various sauces they are valuable. TUBERS (Nos. 117 to 132 on the list). Among these is to be found my favourite—the potato. It is the best article of food I know of. Nobody has so thoroughly tested the value of potatoes as I have. For ten months I have had human test subjects living entirely on potatoes and margarine. Their health and strength during this period had not only been maintained, but had even improved. Potatoes cure constipation, dissolve uric acid, etc., etc. But this is a point into which 1 cannot go fully in this book, and therefore refer the reader to my other work, Protein and, nty itlOll Badly masticated potatoes are difficult to digest and irritate the intestines. Therefore potatoes must either be mashed in the kitchen, or, what is better still, well masticated. Other roots are closely related to’ potatoes. Carrots can provide a good many tasty dishes which I urgently recommend. This applies to all other roots, scorzonera, and so on. We shall now find from Nos. 133 to 147 the VEGETABLES. Vegetables are neither particularly wholesome nor cheap. The comparatively cheap kinds, such as cabbages, as a whole, must not be eaten in too large a quantity, for they would bring on indigestion, and the dearer kinds, well, they are too dear for people of small means.13 ALIMENTARY SUBSTANCES Added to this, vegetables have another fault, i.e., they are too satisfying. Anybody choosing to feed exclusively on cauliflower would require nearly 19 lbs. a day to absorb 3,000 calories, 01 40 s. of salad. Hence the general belief that a vegetarian diet is far too filling. One can, however, obviate such a fault by glancing over the table of foodstuffs ; one will realise how many vegetable products are in reality far more concentrated as regards nourishment than lean meat. Fat meat is an exception, but it contains more fat than flesh. It is nevertheless astonishing how much vegetables are recommended nowadays, even outside vegetarian circles. Most doctors have of late decided against eating too much meat, but none has dared to go further than to say to his patients, eat meat but with a large addition of vegetables. Such advice may be good for many people, but what about the housewife who must economise? Green vegetables, I say, area luxury. They may hold their place on the table, but they must not form the principal part of a meal. Instead of saying with the doctors, eat meat with plenty of vegetables, I would urge people to eat meat with abundant roots. Now let us pass to Nos. 148 to 181 and speak of MEAT, in which we include fish. Meat has always been looked upon as the best food. But I put it in the last place. For this I have the most conclusive reasons. It is possible to argue about some of my reasons, yet there is one which must be admitted unreservedly ; this is, the price of meat. Buying lean meat, one does not get more than 15 calories for $d. Therefore, to live exclusively on lean meat, it would cost 4s. per head each day to get a sufficient number of calories, viz., about ten times too great an expense. Why, then, waste good money on dear meat ? Is it such an indispensable thing ? Far from it. True, we obtain a great deal of protein from meat, but even this is not sufficient to speak in its favour. I go so far as to say that meat can not only be dispensed with, but that, taken in large quantities, it is directly injurious, because it weakens the muscles, and may open the door to many diseases {vide Protein and Nutrition). But if meat is taken in small quantities and always cf the best quality, then I am bound to say that I cannot prove it to be injurious. This question has not yet been scientifically settled. However, first- class meat is expensive ; poor people are, therefore, compelled to eat only the second-rate quality, and this is not advisable. Those who have reasoned out the question think themselves doubly lucky to have cereals, fruit, vegetables, and so forth, to take the place of meat. The preparation of the former in the kitchen is much cleaner, and one need not be afraid to buy the cheaper kinds, as they are often c ven better than the expensive ones. The only argument which remains to those who favour meat is its taste, which they cannot easily give up. But it ought not to be difficult to alter one’s tastes. First, let people give up the idea that it is strengthening and they will soon give it up, as taste and imagination are intimately connected. BEER AND WINE are not nourishing from a practical point of view, they only please the palate and belong to the dangerous series. But it would carry us too far to go fully into the question.14 WHAT TO EAT AND WHY TEA AND COFFEE ought to be indulged in to a somewhat limited extent, as thev are far more dangerous than many people think. They both contain a certain amount of a poison known under the name of caffeine, which is injurious to the heart. Of kite years attempts have been made to extract this substance from coffee, and coffee without caffeine is to be bought. If such is really the case, it can be accepted as a safe drink. The praise of COCOA as an article of food is exaggerated. It may no doubt be reckoned among the most innocent of our luxuries, but it is a mistake to suppose that the fats and carbohydrates it contains are of higher value than the same substances in cheaper foods. As an article of nutrition, therefore, cocoa is far too dear. We now come to a series of auxiliary products which contain no particular nourishment, but which can be applied in many ways in cooking for the preparation of dishes. Isinglass or gelatine are used to stiffen various dishes. Maggi, soy, browning and Lemco serve to improve the taste of sauces. Among SPICES proper, we can reckon cinnamon, clove, Jamaica pepper, vanilla, nutmeg, etc., as quite harmless in the quantities in which they are used. One must, however, be more careful with mustard, pepper, and paprika, although they may not be injurious used moderately. Horseradish is also best considered as a spice; onions occupy a place between spices and foodstuffs. Most vegetarians will reproach me for not condemning spices, vinegar, etc. To this I will answer that I cannot bind myself to condemn anything until I am thoroughly convinced that it is injurious. Until now nothing to my knowledge has proved that spices are injurious in such quantities as I use. It is not even certain that vinegar is bad when used in small quantities ; acids are a natural element of the gastric juice, and fruit contains a large amount of acids. And if we cannot afford to buy enough fruit, why should we not procure artificial acids ? It is easy to assert that the cheapest organic acid, i.e., vinegar, is more injurious than the far more expensive lemon, but proof of this is lacking. It must be admitted that too much flour and cereals may be insipid to the palate. Why not, then, have recourse to mixed preparations ? Unless we do this, it will be difficult to make many converts to the simple, diet which I advocate. However, the use of spices must not be exaggerated, and I should advise a far more sparing use of them than is customary in the old style of cookery.PART II PRACTICAL INSTRUCTION I. ECONOMICAL COOKERY. Fire is expensive, and yet it is astonishing how many otherwise most economical housewives and cooks are extravagant in fuel. It needs little attention to save with regard to coal fire, and cooking by gas is an economy if one understands the management of a gas stove. Dishes which take a long time to cook use a great deal of gas. One forgets that when food is once cooked it will not become an atom warmer whatever degree of heat it is submitted to. Water cannot go beyond boiling point if the steam can escape. The only result of overcooking is that the food becomes dry ; cold water or milk must then be added and heat wasted to bring these to boiling point. It requires a very small gas flame to keep food at boiling point. Cooking in a special cooking-box is a great saving, not only from a monetary point of view, but also with regard to the cook’s anxiety, for in a cooking-box food cannot burn. It is easy to make one. Take a wooden box, 20 inches by 20 inches, and 28 inches high, with a well-fitting lid. It is very convenient to have saucepans nearly the same diameter and with top instead of side handles. Then make a bag of sack cloth, leaving it open sufficiently top and bottom in order to allow room for the saucepans to go in easily from the top, after which nail down fast one end all round the bottom of the box. After filling the empty space between the sack cloth and the wood with hay, the other end of the sack is fastened to the top of the box. Loose hay is spread at the bottom of the box and may be renewed from time to time. After the saucepans are put in the box place a round cushion stuffed with hay on top and put on the lid—it is preferable to stand the saucepans on the top of one another with a cushion between. They must be on the boil when put in ; in this way the food simmers. The cover of the pans should not be raised, and it is essential that the lid of the box remains closed and on no account lifted to see whether the food is cooked enough. One must remember that by making use of a cooking-box the evaporation is minimised, hence a smaller quantity of water or milk is required than when food is in direct contact with the fire. II. THE ART OF EATING. It is not enough for a housekeeper to understand the cooking and the making up of dishes : if her family does not understand the best way of eating, her efforts are vain. “ Not understand how to eat ? ” my readers will say. " As if everybody did not know that.” That may be :i6 WHAT TO EAT AND WHY nevertheless 1 maintain that few people know how to eat in the right way, because they have never given it a thought. As long as primitive men lived on raw, uncooked products, which often cost them great exertion to obtain, and which were hard to eat and required long mastication, feeding was not an art. But now that cooking has become so refined, teeth seem to be a luxury to such an extent that they decay at the age from ten to twenty for want of being sufficiently used, and eating has become a difficult art to learn. I would advise every housekeeper to hang above her dining-table a card printed in large type, giving the following advice :— “ DO NOT EAT IF YOU ARE NOT HUNGRY ! STOP EATING AS SOON AS YOUR APPETITE IS SATISFIED ! DO NOT TALK WHILE EATING ! KEEP ON CHEWING ! EAT BREAD AND POTATOES ! ” Many people do not know what it means to be hungry. How seldom do you hear a man say that he is hungry—except, of course, in the very poor classes—and how many, on the contrary, complain frequently of the loss of appetite ! Ought we to laugh or to weep when we see people go to the doctor asking him to prescribe a tonic to give them an appetite ? This lack of appetite is Nature’s only weapon against over-eating, which kills energy, relaxes the capacity for work, and finally ruins not only the digestive organs but the whole of the organism. People endeavour to deprive Nature of her weapons by bringing more refinement in their cookery, and, failing such means, by making use of all kinds of “ appetisers.” Is it to be wondered at that under such treatments both stomach and bowels end by revolting ? Still, the man is lucky whose stomach kicks in time. A stomach that can digest anything brings its owner to an early grave. People must therefore make it a stringent rule never to eat unless they are hungry. But appetite is often mistaken for hunger. A desire to eat whatever dish looks appetising is not a sign of hunger. Anybody who with good appetite can eat a piece of dry bread very slightly buttered is certainly hungry, and to acquire such an appetite is the easiest thing in the world. It is sufficient to wait until it comes of its own accord. It may be half or a whole day, perhaps several days in coming. Fasting is a good old custom which we have lost, unfortunately. It is often most useful, and seldom or never hurts anyone.* Of course there are exceptions to the rule. If, however, appetite fails to show itself after that time, it is well to try a two hours early walk : this will certainly prove beneficial. THOROUGH MASTICATION is very important. Take the trouble for two days to study mastication. In order to do this, wait until you are thoroughly hungry, then take a piece of bread or a biscuit—the harder the better—with very little * I speak here of healthy people, who through loss of appetite may pa'S for being ill. Many patients whom first-class doctors had treated in vain according to the old method, began to recover after eating sparingly or after trying a hunger cure.MENUS x7 butter, chew it and try to keep it in your mouth as long as possible. Gradually the piece of bread or biscuit will become so finely divided that it will go down of its own accord. If you do this until your feeling of hunger is stilled, you will find yourself fit, well, and ready for your work. On the other hand, if you consume a heavy beefsteak and eggs without troubling about mastication, you will feel sleepy and unfit for work. It seems that one can keep in the best of health and strength for a long period by eating exclusively bread, butter, potatoes, or other similar cheap products (oatmeal, palmine, dried fruit, etc.). Even for people who have no desire for such a simple life, it would be good to live at least one day a week on such fare. For some it may be difficult. But if the entire household alter their way of living, then it becomes an easy matter. At any rate, if nothing else is put before you, simple dishes taste as good as expensive ones. This has been proved many a time. ‘' Variety is necessary,’’ some will say. But how many know that the more refined and unnatural the food, the more variety is necessary. One could not eat a steak every day, whilst you can eat for a whole year bread, potatoes, and fruit, and not tire of them. Does this not prove that the latter fare is the more natural ? If one can procure good potatoes—and this is indispensable if one would follow Dr. Hindhede’s system—potatoes eaten with sauce or with butter constitute a tasty dish. In Denmark a variety of sauces exist: Danish people are fond of them. Yet they are economical in practice ; they can be eaten with bread and potatoes, and therefore save people from buying expensive meat. That is why bread and potatoes are served with every meal, and it must not be forgotten that coarse bread must be preferred to white bread. The latter is a too one-sided food, which is suitable only as an adjunct to other food, but not when it forms an important item of the meal. III. MENUS A. DINNER I. CHEAP MENUS OF ONE DISH. [Numbers in brackets after each dish show the number of the Recipe in the book). I. and II. contain the cheapest possible recipes. The idea is to show the poor man, who must needs live as cheaply as possible, how to do this and yet satisfy his hunger. Sunday.—Green Cabbage Soup (45) or White Cabbage Soup (48) Bread and Potatoes. Monday.—Stewed Potatoes (71) with Bread. Tuesday.—Boiled Rice (1) with Butter, Sugar, Cinnamon and Milk. Wednesday.—Pea Soup (43), Bread and Potatoes. Thursday. Potatoes with Parsley Sauce, I. (201) or Onion Sauce (210I or Potatoes with Fried Onions (61). Friday.—Oatmeal Porridge (13) with Butter, Sugar and Milk Saturday.—Stewed Carrots (69 and 70).18 WHAT TO EAT AND WHY Many will deny the possibility of making a good nourishing meal out of such menus, which are carried to the most extreme limits of economy. For my part 1 say that it can be done. To my knowledge, a town dweller who does no hard manual work requires to derive from his food 2,590 calories daily. Let us divide those into 500 calories at breakfast, and 1,000 each at dinner and supper. Taking our mid-day meal from the above dishes, we have the following result :— Albumen. 1 pint of Green Kale or Cabbage Soup' . 2-0 14 oz. Potatoes . . 8-o 7 oz. Bread . . . 4-4 I4'4 Fat. Carbo- hydrate. Calories. Price. 12-5 20-5 208 id. i-8 8o-o 361 Id. go-o 445 id. I4B 190-5 1014 i Id. Thus we have 1,014 calories for about i±d., each -»-d. worth gives us 145 calories. Supposing we can have at dinner and supper the calories for the same price, we should then spend j ust 3fd. a day. Those figures are so clearly shown that we could easily add margarine to our bread, and consequently we would not require quite as much bread in order to procure our 1,000 calories. Buying 2 oz. best margarine at 6d. a lb. we have the following result :— • Albumen 1 pint Cabbage Soup 2-0 14 oz. Potatoes 8*o 5 oz. Bread . II-2 2 oz. Margarine — 2 I *2 Carbo- Fat. hydrate. Calories. Price. 12-5 20-5 208 id. 8o-o 361 1 '4 70-0 364 id. I3'9 — 129 id. 27-8 i7°’5 1062 24 d. We obtain thus over 1,000 calories for i\d., or 100 calories for \d., and 2,500 for about 6\d. I do not wish it to be understood that I recommend the general adoption of so extremely economical a diet. As I said before, I want to prove that it is possible to live on less than 6d. a day, and that one need not starve on this amount; and should no meat be consumed, either at the mid-day or evening meal, most scientific people will think that % health must suffer through lack of albumen. I have, however, made numerous experiments, which go to prove the contrary, although this greatly-discussed question has not yet been definitely settled. Let us then be careful and allow a man to enjoy for his breakfast and supper a pint of skimmed milk. Thus, over 1 oz. of albumen and 200 calories are saved on the other food ; the price of his meals would be increased by only \d. Let us imagine a man who wants to live on the old principle but who only has 2d. for his dinner. We must suppose that he will only have one" dish, and that this will chiefly consist of meat. On this he will spend 1 \d., for which he will buy 24 oz. of lean meat, which he will fry in \ oz. of margarine and eat with 34 oz. of potatoes. Thus we have :— Carbo- i\ oz. lean Meat Albumen. 7'° Fat. 7 hydrate. Calories. 35 Price. i^rf. 4 oz. Margarine 3'5 — 3- Id. 3! oz. Potatoes . 2-o — 200 90 id- q-o 4-2 20'0 J57 id.IQ the rational i-iindhede menus For this money this man has only from one-thirtl to one-fourth of the calories he requires. In other words, he will not be halt fed, and with regard to his requirement of protein he has not consumed nearly as much as in either of the previous two cases ; he gets only 29 calories for \d If he wished his meat to yield him 1,044 calories he would have to‘eat about three and a-half times more, and his meal would cost him 9d. If we add the price of the other two meals he could easily spend is. 6d. a day. He will certainly swear that he cannot live on 5.W. to 6d. a day. If he has no more to spare for food he must starve. All other dishes given in the above list cost about the same pi ice. II. CHEAP MENUS OF TWO DISHES. Sunday.—Barley Gruel with Currants (12) or Rice Soup (20), Potato Fritters, III. (85) with Mock Mayonnaise Sauce (205) or Caper Sauce (203) and Potatoes. Monday.—Green Cabbage Soup (45) with Potatoes and Bread, Butter- milk with Pancakes (114) with Compote (40,41,42) or rolled with Castor Sugar. Tuesday.—Barley Soup (15) or Sago Soup (16) Lentil Fritters (89) with steamed White Cabbage or Potatoes and Parsley Sauce, I. (201) or Potato Fritters, I. (83) and Parsley Sauce, II. (202). Wednesday.—Browned White Cabbage Soup (48) with Potato and Bread, Batter Pudding (122) or Princess Pudding (121). Thursday.—Wheat Porridge (3) or Ground Rice Porridge (4) Root Fritters (95) with Potatoes and brown Onion Sauce (212) or Parsley Sauce, I. (201). Friday.—Potato soup with Onions (53), Rice Pancakes (117) or Apple Pancakes (116.) Saturday.-—Bread Soup (25), Potato Ring, I. (98) with stewed Carrots (69 and 70). The price of such fare per 1,000 calories will not be higher than the preceding one. Thus, it is easy to understand that the price of raw food being very much the same, it is immaterial whether you have only one or two dishes. The only point to be observed is that when one has two dishes, one is apt to eat more than is necessary. Particular care must be taken not to eat too much of fritters and puddings because they are most concentrated and rich in calories. THE RATIONAL HINDHEDE MENUS. III. MENUS FOR FOUR WEEKS IN WINTER. III. and IV. are normal Hindhede menus. As will be seen, there are recipes for four winter weeks and four summer weeks. It is not intended, of course, that the housekeeper should slavishly follow these recipes in the order given. She must make her arrangements according to what is to be had in the shops at a reasonable price, and must also consider the tastes of the family. By degrees most people will find which menus are to their liking. First Week. Sunday.—Mock Turtle (197), Apple Cake, II. (152). Monday.—Cabbage Soup with Groats (44), Batter Pudding (122) with Fruit Sauce (222).20 WHAT TO EAT AND WHY Tuesday.—Ground Rice Porridge (4) with Syrup and Water, Mock Turtle (197). Wednesday.—Fried Pig’s Liver (194) with Potatoes, Devonshire Toast (138). Thursday.—Pea Soup (43), Apple Pic (153). Friday.—Rice Soup with Milk (14), Celery Sautée (66) with Lemon Sauce (206) and Potatoes. Saturday.—Bread Soup (25), Potato Fritters, I. (83) with Parsley Sauce, II. (202). Second Week. Sunday.—Potato Fritters with Meat (179) with Red Cabbage (78) and Potatoes, Prune Omelet, II. (169). Monday.—Oatmeal Porridge (13), Fritters of various roots (95). Tuesday.-—Potato Soup with Curry (54), fried Bacon in Bread Crumbs (186). Wednesday.-—Maizemeal Mould (5), Gulasch (m), mashed Pota- toes (60). Thursday.-—Macaroni and Ham Pie (176), Bread Porridge (7). Friday.—Tomato Soup with Rice (27), Plum Pudding (123). Saturday.—Elderberry Soup (21), stuffed White Cabbage (109). Third Week. Sunday.—Mock Hare (195), with browned Potatoes, Rice Ring with whipped Cream and stewed Prunes (145). Monday.-—Browned White Cabbage Soup (48), Buttermilk Pancakes (114) with Fruit (33). Tuesday.—Barley Gruel with Currants (12), Potato Fritters, II. (84) with Onion Sauce (210). Wednesday.—Elderberry Soup (21) with Ground Rice Dumplings (119), stuffed White Cabbage (109) or Tobbington (179). Thursday.—Rice Soup with Milk (14) and stewed Apples (42), Aubain (181) with Macaroni in Tomato Sauce, II. (209). Friday.—Beef Broth (57), Bread Pie (129). Saturday.—Bread Soup (25), Cod Croquettes (189) with Mustard Sauce (217) and Potatoes. Fourth Week. Sunday. Tobbington (179) with light Sauce (see 206, but omit Lemon and Sugar), Apple Cake with Brown Bread (150) and whipped Cream. Monday.—Boiled Rice (with Milk) (1), with Syrup and Water, Potato Ring I. (98) with browned Turnips (81). Tuesday.—Green Cabbage Soup (45) with Potatoes, Rice Pudding (126) with Fruit Sauce (222). Wednesday.—Apple Soup (22) with fried Croutons (135), Ham Fritters (177) with stewed White Cabbage (76). Thursday.—Sago Soup (16), Kidney Ragout (193) with mashed [Potci/tocs (60). Friday —Potato Pie (100) with melted Butter, Bread Porridge (7). Saturday.—Herb Soup (47). Mock Cod (141), with Tomato Sauce (208) and Potatoes.THE RATIONAL HINDHEDE MENUS 21 IV. MENUS FOR FOUR WEEKS IN SUMMER. First Week. Sunday.—Cauliflower Soup (49) with White Bread Toast (133), Pigs’ Tongues (196) and Sauce Piquante (215) with Potatoes. Monday.—Rice Gruel with Rhubarb (9), Flam Fritters (177) with stewed Carrots, I. (69). Tuesday.—Rhubarb and Bread Soup (24), Potatoes with Parsley Sauce, II. (202). Wednesday.—Tomato Sautée (67) with Potatoes, Red Blanc-mange with fresh Fruit (34). Thursday.—-Rice Soup (20), Potato Fritters, II. (84) with Brown Onion Sauce (212). Friday.—-Spinach Soup (51), Bread Pudding (128) with stewed Fruit (33). Saturday.— Sago Soup (16), Egg Cake with Bacon (165). Second Week. Sunday.—Timbale with Vegetables (180) and Potatoes, Red Blanc- mange with fresh Fruit (34) Monday.—Green Cabbage Soup (45) with Potatoes, Apple Pancakes (116) with stewed Fruit (33). Tuesday.—Boiled Rice (with Milk) (1), Potatoes with Tomato Sauce (208). Wednesday.—-Sour Fruit Soup (28), Bread Pie (129). Thursday.—Potato Balls (86) with Mock Mayonnaise Sauce (20 s) Rhubarb Fool (31). Friday.—Vegetable Pudding I. (104), Bread Porridge (7). Saturday.—Cherry Soup (19), fried Croutons, II. (135), Cauliflower au Gratin (106). Third Week. Sunday.—Spinach Dumplings (97) with browned Butter and Potatoes Rhubarb Omelet (prepared like 169). Monday.—Rice Gruel with Rhubarb (9), Potatoes with Parsley Sauce (201). J Tuesday.—Sour Milk Soup (18), Potato Pie (100) with melted Butter Wednesday.—Chervil Soup (46) with Potatoes, Rice Pancakes (117) with Compote (42). v n Thursday.—VegetabR Fricassee (73) with Potatoes, Bread Porridge (7) Friday.—Green Pea Soup (5o), Yeast Cake (130) with Compote (42) Saturday—Vegetable Pudding, II. (io5) with melted Butter and Potatoes, Rhubarb Fool (31). Fourth Week. Sunday^—Asparagus^Soup (5*), Potato Chops with Meat (I73) with M°NDMa^S^^tt^I|&r(34).>hWed Grø“ P“S <68>- Rcd .Tuesday. Rhubarb Soup (23) with fried Croutons, II. (r35) Bacon Dice with Onion Sauce (184) and Potatoes. V 35 ’WHAT TO EAT AND WHY 22 Wednesday.—Egg Gruel (6) with Syrup and Water, Stewed Spinach (75) with Potato Sautée (62). Thursday ■ Potato and Onion Soup (53), Rhubarb Cake (j 54). Friday.—Italian Beans (88) with Potatoes, Potato Omelet (171). Saturday. Potato Ring, II. (99) with Tomato Sauce (207), Rhubarb Fool (31). V. EXAMPLES OF DINNERS WITH THREE COURSES. 1. Vegetable Dish (Leeks, Carrots, Cauliflower and Potatoes) with creamed Butter, Potato Chops with Meat (173)' with Potatoes and Cucumber Sauce (216), Apple Gruel (38). 2. Tomato Soup (27), Mock Hare (195), with browned Potatoes, Apple Cake, II. (152), with whipped Cream. 3- . Cauliflower au Gratin (106) with melted Butter, Mock Turtle (197) with Puff-paste Squares, Stewed Rhubarb (33). 4- Herb Soup (47), Miroton (182), Rice Ring with whipped Cream and Stewed Prunes (145). I must refer those who believe that they could not adapt them- selves to my menus to their former way of cooking, yet it is quite possible that they might profit by a careful study of this book. They may perhaps see their way to introduce some of my recipes in place of some of their accustomed meat dishes. People must acquire the conviction that meat is not only unnecessary but it is an expensive item of food ; we eat it only on account of its taste. Bread porridge, fruit, roots, are preferable to meat, and it is evident that people ought to eat less meat and more potatoes and bread, and begin their meals with a large proportion of porridge. This gives us a good and a proper start. It will also be noticed that with the belief of the strengthening properties of meat, the taste for it will gradually decline: thus, one comes at last to realise that the fare of the peasantry, in which flesh is superseded by potatoes, is more healthy. As a boy I was taught by my father that gluttony and drunkenness were hateful sins, and that too much flesh eating belonged to the former. This moral aspect of the question is nowadays totally disregarded. No one is ashamed of entering a restaurant and eating £- lb. of meat with a very small quantity of potatoes and a thin slice of bread. Yet few would like to be seen taking only broth and potatoes with sauce. I am returning to the moral principles of my childhood, and I feel grieved when I see boys and youths revelling in meat; I hold it to be immoral to teach them such gluttony, for which they may have to pay dearly in many ways. And here again—just as with alcohol—it is science which has, unfortunately, confused people’s moral ideas.2.1 THE RATIONAL HIND HE DE MENUS B. BREAKFAST These dishes, fortunately, will not occupy us so long, as probably few people demand variety in their breakfast, and many people cat the same thing day after day. . , , , Of late years we have in our house taken the following bieakfast, (I have taken careful note of what I myself have eaten) . l. Coffee with Bread and Butter. 2.V oz. Brown Bread, oz. White Bread, i oz. Cheese, $ oz. butter and Margarine, half a cupful of Coffee with Milk, giving altogether 4S7 calories = 1 ^d. 2. Bread Soup with Bread and Butter* 7 oz. of Bread Soup (25), } gill of Sweet Milk, 2 oz. Brown Bread i oz. Butter and Margarine, .giving altogether 402 calones = 3^. 3. Cold Barley Groats with Currants and Hot Milk. 10 oz. Barley Gruel, i£ gills Milk, *• oz. Sugar, giving 323 calories = 21d. The barley groats which were prepared the day before are cut into slices, sprinkled with castor sugar and the milk is poured over. 4. Hot Barley Groats with Currants. The groats are brought to the boil the previous evening, and then left for the night in the cooking-box. They are eaten with butter, sugar and new milk or with stewed fruit. It is easy to make any other kind of groats (see recipes 2 to 5). For certain stomach troubles such dishes are particularly good. Anyone can add to the gruel a slice of bread, dumpling, or a biscuit and butter with a cup of tea. I recommend such meals for early breakfast. Try them only once and you will be astonished how good and healthy these cheap dishes are. The bread and butter must be well masticated and swallowed without drinking. Too much liquid is injurious to the digestion. I always find myself more fit if I do not eat much in the morning. It is evident that a man who has heavy manual labour to perform requires a larger quantity than the above, yet he can do it cheaply. C. LUNCH OR SUPPER Bread and butter (margarine) ought to form the basis of the meal. The chief kind of bread ought to be of whole meal and as coarse and hard as possible. Various simple vegetable dishes may be eaten with it. Nos. 229 to 238 give a choice of supper dishes, the’ best of which24 WHAT TO EAT AND WHY is, without doubt, potato salad. Of course the potatoes must be good and the salad well prepared ; so much depends on little details. For instance, cold potatoes must be used even for the preparation of hot salads ; so that the potatoes are cooked in greater quantity at dinner or some are boiled immediately after dinner, so that they may have time to get cold for supper. The two purées (Nos. 241 and 242) are specially good for those who have bad teeth or weak digestion. The three following salads, vegetable, beetroot, macaroni (Nos. 237 to 239), are also very good. But you cannot eat them day after day as you can the former ; for it is difficult to make a meal of them, and you soon get tired of those salads. Lentil patty (No. 241) and Liver patty (No 242) can be spread on bread and butter Stewed gooseberries and currant jam are also very good. Besides the above supper dishes, a number of others are to be found under the heading of Boiled or Fried Vegetables (Nos. 57 to 111), and are particularly good for the evening meals. Plain boiled vegetables such as beans, cauliflower, savoy, white cabbage and sprouts are very good with or without butter. But what I should recommend above all is hot boiled carrots, eaten either with or without a little butter put on each slice of carrot. We must not forget hot potatoes eaten with cold butter. Cold potatoes left over from dinner, sliced on bread and butter, and served with salt, are more tasty than one thinks. Honey, marmalade or stewed fruits are a good addition to bread and butter. Ripe tomatoes, sliced and sprinkled either with salt or sugar, and radishes are also good. Cheese cut verjr thin and used to make sandwiches can be recommended. Or whey may take the place of cheese. As a supper drink, those who are not satisfied with water can take a glass of milk or a cup of weak tea. If no animal food (meat or eggs) is taken, I should advise milk. In my opinion it is the easiest thing to provide a variety of dishes for supper, even when no meat is served, and it is very doubtful whether one ought not to be satisfied at mid-day with a similar fare, composed mainly of bread and butter with the addition of some kind of broth, gruel or soup. We tried it successfully in our house. By means of tlie various kinds of bread : wheat bread, white bread, rolls, large biscuits, or cinnamon bread, cakes (Wholemeal Biscuits, No. 254), a large variety can be obtained. RECIPES, MEASURES AND WEIGHTS In the following recipes measures are given in quarts, and weights in grains or ounces. As I said before, it is most important in cooking to keep to the proper quantity, and a good housekeeper must not fail to use scales in the kitchen. As it is not always possible to weigh exactly very small quantities, I have given them not only in grains but also in spoonfuls (level or heaped), tea and tablespoonfuls. Before following my instructions the cook will do well to ascertain whether her spoons hold the right quantity, such as is given in the recipes. Below I give a few instances of weights which are to be understood as spoonfuls in the recipes. Every ingredient in the table is in the form of powder.25 COOKERY RECIPES Large or Level Heaped Tea- Tea- spoonful. spoonful. Grains. Grains. Level Table- spoonful Grains. Large or Pleaped Table- spoonful. Grains. Flour • 45 90 Sugar • 45 90 Salt . • 45 120 Curry Powder • 25 40 Ground Clove • 25 40 Nutmeg • 25 90 Jamaica Pepper • 25 40 Paprika • 25 40 Pepper • 25 40 Mustard • 25 80 Cinnamon . • 25 40 Small silver coins can also be used should one have no 45° 450 45° small weights. The sovereign . The half sovereign The crown Double florin . Half crown Florin Grains, weighs 123 ,, 62 „ 436 „ 349 „ 218 „ 175 Shilling . Sixpence Threepence Penny . Halfpenny Farthing Grains, weighs 87 44 ) i } t > ) 22 146 88 44 All dishes, save a few exceptions, are reckoned for six persons, as this number is a good all-round one ; two persons very seldom eat the same quantity, and in some cases one will eat as much as three. I therefore leave it to each cook to reckon the amount needed by the household. COOKERY RECIPES* A. PORRIDGE, GRUEL, ETC. The above are the most economical and rational of all dinner dishes, but they have two faults : first, they lack fatty substances. This can be remedied by the addition of butter or milk. Secondly, they have a rather insipid taste, but this is only a question of habit. Anybody who has been brought up from infancy to take porridge and gruel may think it grand at first to go to a restaurant where such dishes are not usual, but after a few months he will be glad to go back to more simple fare. It is good to bring up children in this way, as the taste of porridge and gruel can be improved by adding fruit, which has other advantages, including that of promoting digestion. 1. BOILED RICE (with Milk). d. 2 quarts (8 glasses) Skimmed Milk . . .6 12 oz. (12 tablespoonfuls) Rice . . . Salt. For 6 persons. see p. no. * For explanation of the signs ** and *WHAT TO EAT AND WHY 26 The milk is brought to the boil, then, after having washed the rice first in cold then in boiling water, stir it into the milk and continue stirring until the mixture boils again. Let it boil for about 5 minutes before placing it in the cooking-box, where it is to remain for at least 2 hours ; then take it out, add salt and bring it again to the boil, stirring all the time. Should the mixture be too thin, boil it a little longer. Before serving, add sugar, butter, cinnamon, and pure milk or fruit juice. If no cooking-box is used, 2|- quarts of milk must be used. The quantity of milk depends, it may be said, on the quality of the rice, but the cook will soon find the right proportion. 2. BARLEY PORRIDGE and 3. WHEAT PORRIDGE are prepared in the' same way as boiled rice. 4. GROUND RICE PORRIDGE. d. 2 quarts (8 glasses) Skimmed Milk . . .6 \ lb. (8 tablespoonfuls) Ground Rice . . £- Salt. For 6 persons. 6f The milk is brought to the boil, and then the ground rice which has been previously mixed with some of the cold milk is put in. Boil for J hour and add salt, sugar, cinnamon, butter and fruit syrup. 5. MAIZE MOULD. d. 10 oz. (20 tablespoonfuls) Corn Flour . . 10 oz. (10 tablespoonfuls) Sugar . . U quarts (45 glasses) Skimmed Milk . . 3i 1 oz. Almonds . . • • • 1 For 6 persons. 72- Boil for about 15 minutes corn flour, sugar and milk, with a little vanilla ; draw from the fire and add the almonds, finely chopped, taking care to put in 4 bitter almonds. Mix well together and put into a wet mould. Allow it to stand for 4 or 5 hours; before sei\ing, poui some fruit sauce over it. 6. EGG GRUEL. d. 2 quarts (8 glasses) Skimmed Milk . . .6 £ lb. Potato Flour (| heaped tablespoonfuls) . A oz. (5 large tablespoonfuls) Flour. . . | 2 Eggs 2 Salt. For 6 persons. Si Beat the eggs well, then stir the flour with half the milk and the beaten eggs. Boil the other quart of milk, then thoroughly stir flicCOOKERY RECIPES 2 7 mixture in it and boil the whole well, yet not too long. As soon as it is taken from the fire, add salt. Serve with sugar, cinnamon and fruit syrup. 7. BREAD PORRIDGE. d. 12 oz. Brown Bread . . . . 24 oz. Rhubarb . . . . . .3 7 oz. Sugar ....... 1 I oz. (1 level tablespoonful) Potato Flour) . . \ 1 quart Water. 5t For this we may use stale bread which must be soaked for 24 hours. Place it on the fire and put in the rhubarb, cut into pieces ; let it all boil till it thickens, then pass it through a sieve. Put the porridge back on the fire and boil it with the sugar. When it is taken from the fire, stir in the potato flour to thicken. Serve cold, with milk. Instead of rhubarb, syrup or buttermilk may be used ; if buttermilk, no water is to be added. 8. RICE GRUEL WITH APPLES. d. 1J quarts (6 glasses) Water. lb. (8 tablespoonfuls) Rice . £ i lb. Apples ....... ii 1 oz. (1 tablespoonful) Potato Flour . . |- 4 oz. (4 tablespoonfuls) Sugar £ j pint (1 glass) Water and Salt. For 6 persons. 3 Soak the rice and throw it in the boiling water with the apples, peeled and cored. Boil it just for 1 hour, then add salt and sugar. The apples may also be cooked apart, especially if dried ones are used, and then added to the gruel. Serve with milk and castor sugar. 9. RICE GRUEL WITH RHUBARB. d. if quarts (6 glasses) Water. 10 oz. (10 tablespoonfuls) Rice . . . i-l ij-lb. Fresh Rhubarb . . . . 2 oz. (2 tablespoonfuls) Sugar . . . r For 6 persons. 2|- This giuel is made exactly in the same way as tire preceding. The rhubarb is peeled, cut in small pieces and stewed, then mixed with the gruel. Serve with milk and sugar. 10. BOILED RICE (Plain). i pint (2 glasses) Water. \ lb. (8 spoonfuls) Rice ..... 1WHAT TO EAT AND WHY 28 Wash the rice and throw it into boiling salt water for 12 to 15 minutes, then pour it out on a wire sieve and pour slowly warm water over it; then put the rice back in the saucepan to dry. 11. RICE FOR SOUP. d. £ pint (i|- glasses) Water. J lb. (8 tablespoonfuls) Rice . ... h 1 oz. Margarine ...... X Salt. For 6 persons. £ Wash the rice in cold water and put it into boiling water with salt. Let it boil until the rice is soft, add the margarine and put in a wet mould. When set turn it out. 12. BARLEY GRUEL WITH CURRANTS. i-| quarts (6 glasses) Water. 9 oz. (9 tablespoonfuls) Barley 1 oz. (1 tablespoonful) Currants Salt. d. 1 i For 6 persons. 1J Boil the water, mix the barley slowly with it, and add salt. Let it simmer for 2 or 3 hours, and half an hour before it is cooked add the currants, which have been picked and well washed. If you cook in the cooking-box (see p. 15) the currants must be put in at the same time as the barley. Serve with butter, milk, and castor sugar. Other fruit can be used instead of currants (see Nos. 33, 40, 41), which are cheap, or No. 42, if it can be procured. Wiren fruit other than currants is used, it must be stewed into a rather syrupy state; it is either poured over the gruel or prepared apart. In this case milk is omitted. Some people cannot digest milk, either in milk gruels or added to water gruels ; for them I should recommend stewed apples, currants or blackberries. As there are objections to giving unboiled milk to children, this difficulty may be overcome by giving them stewed fruit with either barley or oatmeal porridge for breakfast. If, however, it is believed the children must have milk in the morning, the gruel can be prepared either with milk alone, or with half milk and half water. 13. OATMEAL PORRIDGE. d. 2 quarts (8 glasses) Water. 9 oz. (9 large tablespoonfuls) Oatmeal . . i£ Salt. For 6 persons. 11 It is wiser to soak the oatmeal the night before, especially if it is to be eaten at breakfast. When cooked with water, salt must not be omitted; moreover, this must be put in the water at the same time as the oatmeal, as it prevents scum. Oatmeal must simmer for at least £ of an hour and is served cither with stewed fruit or with milk, butter and sugar.COOKERY RECIPES 29 14. RICE SOUP WITH MILK. d. 2 quarts (8 glasses) Skimmed Milk . . .6 3 oz. (3 tablespoonfuls) Rice . ... I Salt. For 6 persons. 6J- Wash the rice in cold water and then scald it. Boil the milk, throw the rice in and stir until it comes to the boil, i.e., for about xo minutes, after which the rice begins to cook. Then cover the saucepan and let the rice simmer for x hoxxr, without Stirling it at all. It would, of course, require a longer time in the cooking-box, and the soup would have to be put again on the fire to finish cooking it. Serve with sugar and cinnamon or stewed fruit. 15. BARLEY SOUP is prepared as the above. 16. SAGO SOUP. d. 2 quarts (8 glasses) Sldnxmed Milk . . .6 3 oz. (3 tablespoonfuls) Sago i Salt. For 6 persons. 6^ Mix the sago slowly with the boiling milk, and let it simmer for 15 to 20 minutes until the sago is soft. Serve with sugar and cinnamon. 17.* GROUND RICE SOUP WITH STEWED APPLES. d 3 pints (6 glasses) Skimmed Milk . . 41 2\ oz. (5 tablespoonfuls) Ground Rice . I Salt. ' 2 2\ oz. dried Apples .... ji £ pint (1 glass) Water. 4 2 oz. (2 tablespoonfuls) Sugar ... 1 5 oz- (1 heaped teaspoonful) Potato Flour." For 6 persons. 6f of thp nne WKthrpart of,the milk- then stir this into the remainder of the milk when boiling, and let it boil for 15 minutes ; then put in the salt. Serve at least a spoonful of stewed fruit to each plate of soud dnnamon°r Can be USed instead of appleÆlu^S J8. sour milk soup. 2 quarts (8 glasses) Sour Milk . i lb. (4 large tablespoonfuls) Flour . i£ oz. Margarine . 1 ESS £ lb. (4 tablespoonfuls) Sugar . .' ” For 6 persons.WHAT TO EAT AND WHY 30 After whisking the sour milk set it to boil with the margarine, whisking it all the time ; when it boils, stir in it the flour previously made into a batter, with some of the cold sour milk, and stir for about io minutes. Beat the egg with the sugar and mix it with the soup when the latter is ready. If not sweet enough add more sugar. The advantage of this soup is to use up milk which has turned sour ; though milk may sometimes be too sour to be fit for use. B. CUSTARDS, FRUIT SOUPS, STEWED FRUIT, ETC. Fruit soups and stewed fruit can be recommended occasionally, yet such dishes are neither as nourishing nor as cheap as the preceding ones. Moreover, they contain a good deal of added sugar. But they are refreshing and agree very well as a rule. I strongly recommend Rhubarb Fool (No. 31) and Red Blanc- mange (No. 34, 35), Prune-gruel (No. 36) and Apple-gruel (No. 38, 39). These are Danish national dishes which are eaten every day in my house during summer (except in the strawberry season). The Danes do not treat them as sweets, but as a second course. Sugar is sprinkled and milk poured over them. 19.* CHERRY SOUP. d. 3 pints (6 glasses) Water. 1 lb. Cherries. ..... 5 oz. (5 tablespoonfuls) Sugar . 1 oz. (1 large tablespoonful) Sago Flour . 1 oz. (1 large tablespoonful) Potato Flour For 6 persons. 3-2- Fresh or dried cherries can be used for this purpose ; in the latter case half the weight is required, and dry fruit has always to be well washed. Crush the cherries, put them in cold water, and bring to the boil. When they are cooked, strain, add sugar, and thicken with sago, potato flour, or both. Serve with plain biscuits, sweet biscuits, or croutons. 20.RICE SOUP. d. 3 pints (6 glasses) Water. 2J oz. (2J tablespoonfuls) Rice . . . i 7 oz. Apples ....... 1 3^ oz. Plums . . . . • • glass of Fruit Syrup £ i£ oz. (i|- tablespoonfuls) Sugar i 1 piece of Cinnamon ..... 1 For 6 persons. 3h Wash the rice and put it in boiling water ; leave it to simmer for a good \ hour, then add the washed plums and apples, cut into small pieces, and let it boil for another J hour. Add the syrup and sugar, and the soup is ready.COOKERY RECIPES 31 21.* ELDERBERRY SOUP. a, 3 pints (6 glasses) Water. 1 lb. Elderberries . • • • • 4 2 ozs. (2 large tablespoonfuls) Wheat Flour . £ 8 oz. Apples . ■ • • . • • I3 4 oz. (4 tablespoonfuls) Sugar . . . • i For 6 -persons. 6 Wash the berries and boil them in 3 pints of water until they are wrinkled, strain the juice through a sieve into a basin. Then add the Hour, which has been stirred with a little water into a thick paste, after’ which boil the apples cut up in that paste, until they are soft. Serve with rice dumplings (see No. 119) or croutons (Nos. 134, 135). Instead of the wheat flour, half the quantity of potato flour can be used ; in that case the potato flour must only be added just before serving. 22.* APPLE SOUP. 3 pints (6 glasses) Water. 19 oz. Apples ...... 7 oz. (7 tablespoonfuls) Sugar . i|- oz. (i-J- heaped tablespoonfuls) Potato Flour . For 6 persons. 4 Peel and core the apples, cut them into halves and boil them with water until they are soft ; strain and press them through a sieve, and boil the syrup again with the sugar : thicken with potato or sago flour. Serve with croutons. 23.* RHUBARB SOUP. d. 3 pints (6 glasses) Water. 16 oz. Rhubarb ...... i i£ oz. (ib heaped tablespoonfuls) Potato Flour . | 4 oz. (4 tablespoonfuls) Sugar . . . i|- For 6 persons. if Wash the rhubarb, cut it into pieces, and boil with water. When all the strength is out of the rhubarb, strain it, add sugar to the soup, and thicken with potato or sago flour. Serve with either croutons or small rusks. 24. RHUBARB AND BREAD SOUP. 3 pints (6 glasses) Water. 14 oz. Stale Brown Bread 7 oz. Rhubarb .... 5 oz. (5 tablespoonfuls) Sugar d. . u . 1 5 • • t For 6 persons. 2f It is best to soak the bread the previous evening in boiling water to save time; cut the rhubarb into small pieces and boil it with the bread.32 WHAT TO EAT AND WHY When it gets thick strain through a sieve, put it again on the fire, and add sugar. Those who like it can add milk. Instead of fresh rhubarb, rhubarb jam can be used. In this case the rhubarb is added to the soup when cooked. 25. BREAD SOUP. 3 pints (6 glasses) Water. 14 oz. Stale Bread .... 2^- oz. (2J- tablespoonfuls) Sugar d. b For 6 persons. 2 Cut up and soak the bread on the previous night in 1 quart water, add the rest of the water when you cook it, then let it boil until the bread forms a pap, add sugar and the soup is ready. Should you use a cooking-box the bread will have to be soaked in the forenoon, brought to the boil at night, and left for the whole night in the cooking-box ; then it will have to be warmed again in the morning until it thickens ; should there be any lumps of bread, break them with a spoon. This is a very cheap dish and most suitable for children’s breakfast, eaten with milk, bread and butter, it is not only a tasty but a wholesome and cheap breakfast. 26. OATMEAL SOUP. 3 pints (6 glasses) Water. 3 oz. (3 large tablespoonfuls) Oatmeal 1 glass Fruit Syrup 2 oz. (2 tablespoonfuls) Sugar . d. b For 6 persons. Soak the oatmeal the night before, boil it for 2 hours, strain and sweeten with fruit syrup and sugar to taste. Add a little salt if it is desired to reduce the sweetness. Serve with small rusks. Oatmeal can be replaced by oaten flour, which takes a shorter time to cook. The quantity of sugar to be added depends, of course, entirely on the kind of syrup used. We should advise elderberry and rhubarb syrup (No. 224). Healthy people will, perhaps, require a somewhat stronger taste ; for them 5 oz. fruit syiup and 2b oz. sugar may be recommended. Very weak stomachs would prefer pure elderberry or black currant juice. 27.* TOMATO SOUP. d. 2 pints (4 glasses) Water. 16 oz. Ripe Tomatoes . • • • • 2 (Or 1 pint (2 glasses) Tomato Purée.) 2 oz. (2 large tablespoonfuls) Flour . 2 oz. Margarine ..•••• i Pot Herbs and Salt . • • • • 1 For 6 persons. 4 Slice the tomatoes, put them in a saucepan with salt and water When this comes to the boil add some pot herbs and cook until t eCOOKERY RECIPES 33 tomatoes are done. Take them out and pass them through a hair sieve ; make a batter with butter or margarine and flour, mix it with the mashed tomatoes. Cook for 5 minutes. Serve with toast 01 rice. Macaroni or small dumplings can be used instead. • When toast is used, the soup must be thicker. 28. SOUR FRUIT SOUP. 3 pints (6 glasses) Water. 21 oz. Dried Apples .... 31- oz. Dried Plums .... 1 oz. Carrots ...••• Pot Herbs . . • • 1 \ oz. (2 tablespoonfuls) Vinegar 21 oz. tablespoonfuls) Sugar For 6 persons. 29. SOUR FRUIT SOUP (Cheaper). d. 3 pints (6 glasses) Water. Pot Herbs and Celery . . . . .1 3^ oz. Dried Plums . . . . . i| 14 oz. Carrots ...... f £ oz. (J tablespoonful) Sugar \ Salt and Vinegar to taste. For 6 persons. 3 J Boil together carrots with good pot herbs, to which leeks and celery may be added. When the carrots are soft, strain the soup and set it to boil again with plums and apples. If dried apples are used, they must be soaked beforehand and added to the soup with the water in which they have soaked. When ready, add vinegar, sugar, salt, and a drop or two of colour. Serve with rice dumplings (No. 119) which are put into the soup before it is taken off the fire so as to get hot. It is advantageous, also, to add a few slices of potatoes. d. i 1A I 1 i A 4 30. LEMON CUSTARD. d. 4 Eggs 4 £ oz. White Gelatine . . . . - if x Lemon ....... 1 I- pint (| glass) Water. 4 oz. (4 tablespoonfuls) Sugar . . . .1 For 6 persons. yjf Beat the yolks with the sugar for b an hour, then add by degrees the lemon juice and peel grated, and lastly the gelatine, dissolved in tepid water. Beat the whites to a snow and add them to the mixture as soon as it is getting stiff. Pour in a glass dish and let it set. Serve it with pure milk.WHAT TO EAT AND WHY 34 31.* RHUBARB FOOL. 2 quarts (8 glasses) Water. 2 lb. Rhubarb ...... 5 oz. (5 tablespoonfuls) Sugar . x-£ oz. (i£ heaped tablespoonfuls) Sago Flour 11 oz. (i| heaped tablespoonfuls) Potato Flour . d. 1 3 4 i i For 6 persons. 2£ Wash the rhubarb, cut it into pieces, and boil it thoroughly. Then strain, measure off the liquid and put it back on the fire with sugar (2 to i\ oz. to a quart, according to the acidity of the rhubarb), thicken with 2 to 2\ oz. flour to a quart, according to the thickness required. Sprinkle with sugar or cover with a lid so as to avoid a skin forming. Serve with milk and castor sugar. This dish is not served as a “ sweet ” but as a second course. 32.* CHESTNUT PUDDING. 20 oz. (40) Chestnuts .... 2 oz. Butter ...... 1 pint (b glass) Milk .... 2 oz. (2 tablespoonfuls) Sugar . 1 oz. (1 large tablespoonful) Flour . 3 Eggs A little Vanilla ..... d. 2\ ) j 2 1 5 3 I For 6 persons. 8f Boil the chestnuts and rub through a wire sieve. Melt the butter, stir in the flour, and add the milk, and boil 5 minutes ; when rather cool add the chestnut purée, sugar, vanilla, and the yolks of eggs. Beat the whites of two to a stiff froth and cut in lightly. Steam in a greased mould ij hours, covered with greased paper. A little jam sauce poured round is an improvement when the pudding is dished up. 33. STEWED RHUBARB. d. 16 oz. Rhubarb ...... 1 i pint (x glass) Water. 3! oz. (3J tablespoonfuls) Sugar . f oz. (x level tablespoonful) Potato Flour . . j For 6 persons. 1 b Wash and cut the rhubarb into pieces about 2 inches long and stew it to a syrup with water and sugar until soft. Take out the pieces carefully with a skimmer and lay them in a glass dish. Care must be taken not to stew too much, or it will go to pieces. Boil the syrup until it thickens or add a little potato flour and pour over the rhubarb. This compote can be used as well as apple compote as an addition to fritters, apple fritters, or to gruel (see No. 17).COOKERY RECIPES 35 34- RED BLANCMANGE WITH FRESH z \ pints (5 glasses) Water. 16 oz. Red Currants ..... 7 oz. (7 tablespoonfuls) Sugar .... ii oz. (2 level tablespoonfuls) Potato Flour 11 oz. (2 level tablespoonfuls) Sago Flour . FRUIT. d. 3 1 & £ £ For 6 persons. 4! Stew the red currants in 1 quart of water until quite soft, then strain ; put back the currants in the saucepan with 1 pint of water, press them out with a spoon, boil and strain again. Put the currants into the saucepan with 1 pint of water for a third time, and bring to the boil. Then rinse the currants in the sieve with enough cold water to obtain quarts of syrup altogether. Take 2 quarts of this, mix it with sugar and put once more on the fire ; thicken the other pint with the flour and add to the rest before it boils ; then mix the whole together, stirring until it boils. Pour carefully into a bowl, sprinkle sugar ovei it in order to prevent a skin forming. Serve when cold with milk and castor sugar. A similar dish can be made with raspberries, black currants, etc. A mixture of \ of red currants and f. raspberries is delicious. A cheaper kind can be made by adding more flour and water. 35.* RED BLANCMANGE FROM SYRUP. d. 1 pint Mixed Fruit Syrup . . . .3 3 pints (6 glasses) Water. 2 oz. (2 large tablespoonfuls) Sago Flour . . \ 4 oz. (4 large tablespoonfuls) Potato Flour . a For 6 persons. 31 Mix the fruit syrup with water, but keep a little of it in which the flour is to be mixed. Bring to the boil and thicken with a potato and £ sago flour. If this is to be used on the same day, and before it is quite cold, it requires 2^ oz. of mixed flour to each quart of syrup and water. If it is to be used only on the following day, 2 oz. are sufficient. Put into a glass dish and sprinkle sugar over it. Serve with milk and castor sugar. The less potato flour and the more sago flour used the better, but the latter is more expensive. 36.** PRUNE GRUEL. 7 oz. Stoned Prunes . . . , .4 1 & pints (3 glasses) Water. 2 2 oz. (2i tablespoonfuls) Sugar . . 1 ii oz. (2 level tablespoonfuls) Sago Flour . For 6 persons. 4f Wash the prunes well and boil them until soft. It is better to soak them the previous night and boil them in the same water • add suvar and flour, boil well and serve in a glass dish. Serve separately milk d 2WHAT TO EAT AND WHY 36 and castor sugar. 1 his is a delicious and excellent against constipation. dish, inexpensive, nourishing, 37«** STEWED PRUNES. d. 4 oz. Stoned Prunes . . . . u i j pints (3 glasses) Water. a oz. (2 level tablespoonfuls) Sugar . . \ i oz. (i heaped tablespoonful) Sago Flour 4 Prepare this like prune gruel. The sugar must be added according to taste and the quality of the prunes. This applies to every kind of stewed fruit. 38.APPLE GRUEL. 2 lb. Apples ...... pint (1 glass) Water. 2 oz. (2 tablespoonfuls) Sugar . 1 oz. (1 heaped tablespoonful) Potato Flour For 6 persons. Peel and core the apples and stew them in a little water ; the quantity of water depends on the juiciness of the apples. When they are done, add sugar and potato or sago flour ; let it boil, and serve with milk and castor sugar. d. 4 1 39«** APPLE GRUEL. II. 3 pints (6 glasses) Water. 7 oz. Dried Apples .... 3! oz. (3^ tablespoonfuls) Sugar 2 oz. (2 heaped tablespoonfuls) Potato Flour d. 3 t 1 For 6 persons. 4 Wash the apples and soak them in cold water ; cook them in the same water with the sugar. Strain, when cooked, through a sieve, and boil them again, adding potato or sago flour. In winter time it is better to eat stewed apples half cold. Serve with milk and castor sugar. 40.** FRESH STEWED APPLES. d. 13 oz. Apples . . . . . .i.i £ pint (1 glass) Water. 4 oz. (4 tablespoonfuls) Sugar . ... \ Peel and core the apples and cut them in quarters. Boil a syrup of sugar and water and stew the fruit in it. Be careful not to put in tooCOOKERY RECIPES 37 many apples at once. As soon as the fruit is soft, take it out lay it in a glass dish, and let the juice cook a little longer. Pour it while warm over the apples. The quantity must be in proportion with the acidity of the apples. 41.** dried stewed apples. d. 3i oz. Dried Apples . . • • • i-I pints (3 glasses) Water. . 2*oz. (2 tablespoonfuls) Sugar .... .r oz. (1 level tablespoonful) Potato Flour . . j 2 Wash the dried apples, cook them in the water in which they have soaked ; add sugar. When ready, add some potato flour, and boil a little longer. 42.** COMPOTE. This can be prepared with any kind of fresh fruit, strawberries, raspberries, red currants, gooseberries, bilberries, etc. The fruit is stewed in a little water with sugar to taste. The juice can be thickened or not with potato or sago flour. Yet it is useful to thicken it if it is intended to be spread over bread and butter, otherwise, if it is to be eaten with porridge, etc., a thin compote is preferable. It must be observed that any such compote, made of fresh fruit, is rather expensive, and must not be eaten in too large quantities owing to the quantity of sugar it contains. C. VEGETABLE SOUPS, Etc. The recipes for these soups are, in most cookery books, given with the addition of meat, and it would be very difficult to make some housekeepers believe that the soups can be good without it. But let them make the experiment, and begin, for instance, with white cabbage soup. If people insist on a dish of boiled pork to follow, I should advise them to throw away the liquor of the pork and try my recipe of a cabbage soup. Not only myself but many others prefer it. In all soup recipes, the butter can be replaced by palmine or margarine. Many of these soups are not very nutritious, but their nutritive value may be increased to any desired extent by the addition of potatoes, carrots, etc. This is an opportunity for using up cold potatoes left over from the day before. They are served on a plate, cut into pieces of suitable size. Every one can help himself as he pleases, adding the potatoes to the soup. If bread is also eaten with it, there is no reason why this dish should not provide sufficient nourishment in itself. Do not put too much salt in these soups. Potato-water.—The water in which well-washed (peeled) potatoes have been boiled must never be thrown away. It is used as a " maigre ” soup with dishes for which a meat soup would usually be employed. Potato-water—slightly, but not too much salted—really tastes very well. The taste is further improved by boiling other roots and veget- ables in it. If we add flour-dumplings or meat balls we shall have a tasty dish resembling ordinary meat soup. UNh/Ltf oli 1 LIBRARY LEEDS38 WHAT TO EAT AND WHY Potato-water contains in solution several of the basic salts of the potato. It is therefore not without reason that it has been regarded from time immemorial as a good remedy for gout. Potato-water is to be preferrred to Maggi cubes, which consist for the most part only of various salts. If any addition of water is required to the soup this should be of potato-water. If potato-water is to be used, it is of course necessary that the potatoes be of good quality. A single bad potato may spoil the taste. 43. YELLOW PEA SOUP. d. i lb. Split Peas . . . . . .2 1 lb. Potatoes ...... \ 21 quarts (10 glasses) Water. Pot Herbs and Salt . . . . .1 For 6 persons. 3^ Wash the peas and soak them the day before ; peel and slice the potatoes and cook them with pot herbs, and the peas in the water in which they have been soaked. When they are cooked, strain and mash the vegetables. The pot herbs can be replaced by celery or parsnips. 44.** CABBAGE SOUP WITH GROATS. d. 21 Quarts Water {or thin Soup). 3 oz. Barley .... § oz. (1 tablespoonful) Flour . 10 oz. Cabbage 3J oz. Leeks . . . . 6 oz. Carrots .... 24 oz. Potatoes 1 tablespoonful Salt , 3. 4 4 The water or soup is brought to the boil, the groats and salt then sprinkled in and boiled for half an hour ; then the carrots are added, and when these are nearly soft, the cabbage and leeks, which have first been cut up small. The flour is stirred in water, and this thickening is stirred into the soup and boiled with it for 5 or 10 minutes. The potatoes are peeled and put in at the same time as the carrots. 45.** GREEN CABBAGE SOUP. d. 7 oz. Green Cabbage ..... i 2I oz. Margarine ...... 1 4'oz. (4 large tablespoonfuls) Flour . . . \ Pot Herbs ...•••• i 4^ pints (9 glasses) Water. For 6 persons. 2i Boil the water, add the pot herbs, and, if liked, put some roots and cabbage shredded ; cook till tender. Brown the flour and margarine a pale colour, and mix with the soup after it is strained. Other greens can take the place of cabbage. When served add sliced, boiled potatoes.COOKERY RECIPES 39 For 6 persons. 3å 46.** CHERVIL SOUP. 3£ oz. Picked Chervil . 2 quarts Water. 21 oz. Margarine . 3_oz. (3 heaped tablespoonfuls) Flour Herbs, Salt. d. 3 1 Prepared like cabbage soup (45) and eaten with potatoes. 41 47 HERB SOUP. 23 oz. White Cabbage 10 oz. Carrots 3 oz. Parsley Roots 7 oz. Leeks . 17 oz. Potatoes 3 oz. Margarine 1 tablespoonful Salt 2 quarts Water. d. 11 1 1 8 The cabbage, carrots, parsley roots, leeks and potatoes are cut into strips of the same length. The margarine is melted, and the whole turned into it for 5 minutes, care being taken that it does not get browned. Boiling water is then poured on, and the soup is boiled for three-quarters of an hour or one hour. 48.** BROWNED WHITE CABBAGE i | lbs. White Cabbage ij oz. Palmine h lb. Carrots . . f 1 oz. Celery . 4 oz. Potatoes £ teaspoonful Salt and Pepper 2I Leeks 3 pints (6 glasses) Water. SOUP. d. i •> b i 1 4r 1 4 3. 4 For 6 persons. 41- Cut the white cabbage into strips, brown the palmine or margarine, and turn the cabbage over in it till it becomes a good colour ; add water, carrots, potatoes and pot herbs. When the cabbage is cooked, take out the pot herbs and add salt and pepper to taste. 49-** CAULIFLOWER SOUP. 1 lb. Cauliflower 2 oz. Margarine 2 oz. (2 large tablespoonfuls) Flour £ oz. (2 teaspoonfuls) Sugar £ tablespoonful Salt and Pepper 3 pints (6 glasses) Water. d. 2 I £ £ £WHAT TO EAT AND WHY 40 lHor this soup the stalks of inferior cauliflower can be used. Soak the cauliflower for i hour in cold water, with salt or vinegar, in order to get rid of any insects. Then put the cauliflower to boil, and, when soft, cut the best of it into small pieces—these are kept to place on the top of the soup before serving. Strain the broth, mash the stalks, fry the flour a pale colour in the butter, and add it to the broth. Then add salt, a little sugar and pepper, and boil once more. The yolk of an egg can be stirred into the soup, and it is served with croutons (fried bread) and the pieces of the cauliflower. 50.** GREEN PEA SOUP. i lb. Green Peas ..... 5 oz. Carrots ...... 5 oz. Parsley and Turnips i oz. Margarine ..... ii oz. (ii large tablespoonfuls) Flour 5 pints Water. For 6 persons. 4| Boil the turnips and carrots in salt water until all but the carrots are soft ; add flour, which has been browned in the margarine ; chop the carrots and add the peas with finely chopped parsley. Add sugar and a little salt—which, however, can be dispensed with. Double the quantity of flour and margarine can be used if desired ; it will con- siderably increase the nourishment in proportion to the expense. 5i.** SPINACH SOUP. d. 1 lb. Spinach . . . . . i£ Pot Herbs ....... i 2 oz. Palmine . . . . . i 3 oz. (3 large tablespoonfuls) Flour . . .1 4I pints Water. For 6 persons. 4^ Pick the spinach, wash it, and put it to boil in water with pot herbs and a pinch of soda. When the spinach is boiled (which takes about 10 minutes) strain and chop up. Brown some flour in palmine, mix it with the broth, add the spinach with a little salt and sugar. Serve with potatoes, croutons, or toast. The yolk of an egg is an improvement. 52.* ASPARAGUS SOUP. s. d. 8 quarts (2 glasses) Water or Pot-Herbs Soup. oz. Palmine . . . . . .01 3^ oz. (3! large tablespoonfuls) Flour . .01 1 Yolk of an Egg . . . . .01 1 lb. Green Asparagus . . . . o 10 For 6 persons. 1 1 Scrape the asparagus and cut it into pieces about 2 inches long. Boil the scrapings with some pot herbs, and, when the strength is d. • 3 • i • * . b ■ lCOOKERY RECIPES 4i extracted, strain ; boil the asparagus in the soup for about 20 minutes, when it ought to be soft. Brown some flour in palmine a light colour, mix tlfls with the soup, also the yolk of an egg, well beaten. Serve with croutons or toast. 53.** POTATO AND ONION SOUP. d. ii lbs. Potatoes ...... f 2\ oz. Celery ...... ^ if oz. Margarine ...... ^ 2 oz. (2 large tablespoonfuls) Flour ... I 2 quarts (8 glasses) Water. Salt, Pepper, Onions . . . A Pot Herbs ....... 1 For 6 persons. 3^ Peel the potatoes and cut them into pieces ; boil them with celery, onions, and pot herbs. When the potatoes are cooked, remove the pot herbs and rub the potatoes and carrots through a sieve. Brown the flour in margarine, mix with the soup, add slices of potato, and sprinkle with some chopped parsley. Serve with fried bread. 54.** POTATO SOUP WITH CURRY. d. 1J lbs. Potatoes ...... f 2\ oz. Celery ...... ^ f- pint Skimmed Milk . . . . 1 j- 2% oz. Margarine . . . . . .1 1 quart (4 glasses) Water. Pot Herbs,Leeks, Curry Powder (J tablespoonful) ib For 6 persons. 5 Boil some pot herbs in water, peel the potatoes and celery and boil them in slammed milk ; rub them through a sieve, add margarine and curry powder to the mash, and boil again with the liquor of the pot herbs until reduced enough. Serve with toast. 55.** CARROT SOUP. d. 12 lbs. Carrots . . . . . r 2i- oz. Leeks ....... x 1 oz. Onions ...... " 1 2 oz. Margarine ...... i 2 oz. (2 large tablespoonfuls) Flour . . . 1 2 quarts Water. 4 Pot Herbs and Salt . . . . 1 For 6 persons. Scrape the carrots and slice them, boil them with pot herbs, and when they are soft rub them through a sieve. Brown slightly the flour in margarine and mix with this the soup and the carrots, adding salt and pepper to taste. Serve with toast.what to eat and why 4- 56. CELERY SOUP. d. 1 lb. Celery ....... 2 3^ pints (7 glasses) Water. 2 oz. Margarine | 2 oz. (2 heaped tablespoonfuls) Flour . . I 1 Yolk of an Egg 1 A oz. Onion ....... J Pot Herbs, Salt, Pepper . . . . .1 For 6 persons. 5} After the celery is scraped and cut into pieces, bring it to the boil with 3^ pints of water. When it boils, add pot herbs and onion ; when the celery is soft, strain. Thicken the soup with flour, slightly browned in margarine and with a well-beaten yolk of an egg. Serve with croutons or toast. D. BOILED AND FRIED VEGETABLES AND POTATOES. BOILED POTATOES. Many cooks would be astonished if they were told that they cannot cook potatoes, and yet how many are proficient in this art ? It is important to be able to prepare properly such an essentially nourishing article of food, for, although it has been slandered over and over again, it will yet come into its own. Anyone going to a restaurant, even one of the best, and asking for meat and potatoes, will usually be served with a large portion of meat, well prepared, and one or two more or less badly-cooked potatoes. Those are considered so negligible that cooks, as a rule, do not trouble about them. The first condition for serving a good dish of potatoes is to buy only those of good quality. The best cook cannot give flavour to potatoes of inferior quality. When possible, the best time to store potatoes is the autumn, but never buy a large quantity before giving them a trial. The best way to keep potatoes is to bury them in sand in the cellar, or in a closed box, as light spoils the flavour. Above all, potatoes must be neither under nor over cooked. As soon as they are done—this can be ascertained by digging a skewer into them—pour off the water, leave them on the side of the stove without a lid for a few minutes, covered with a cloth. This makes them mealy. Remember never to throw away potato-water. It may perhaps cure your gout! PEELED POTATOES IN THE COOKING^BOX. It is very difficult to cook potatoes in the cooking-box, as it does them no good to remain too long in warm water. The following method of cooking somewhat old and not over good potatoes can, however, be recommended. Peel the potatoes and soak them in wrater for 1 hour. Boil them in fresh water and, when they are half done, pour•cookery recipes *13 off the water while they are allowed to steam for a few minutes with the lid off put the lid on and warm them up again, leave them in the cooking-box for fully \ of an hour, and they will be ready to be eaten. Of course, it requires some experience to know the right moment for stopping the boiling. This Wciy of cooking potatoes is particulaily gooc when they are mealy and apt to break. 57. BEEF BROTH. d. . 6 . i . I 9 Wash the meat and cut it off the bone and then into small pieces. Put the meat and bone into boiling salt water; skim the soup, put in the barley and simmer together for one hour. Then add a bunch of herbs, carrots and potatoes, and simmer until the vegetables are soft. 1 lb. Beef (neck) 2}, quarts Water. 3~oz. (3 tablespoonfuls) Barley 8 oz. Carrots . 21 lbs. Potatoes 1 tablespoonful Salt Herbs .... 58.** POTATOES WITH BUTTER AND SALT. Nicely boiled potatoes are extremely tasty eaten with butter (margarine) or merely with salt. It is, besides, a very cheap dish if one is not too extravagant with the butter. 59.*1* POTATOES WITH PARSLEY SAUCE. Hot boiled potatoes can be eaten with parsley sauce (Nos. 201 and 202). This simple dish is particularly good, but potatoes must be of first-rate quality. Parsley sauce is delicious with new potatoes. 60.** MASHED POTATOES. d. 3 lbs. Potatoes . . . . . . ii § pint (ij glasses) Skimmed Milk . . 1“ 1 oz. Margarine ..... l Salt. For 6 persons. 3 Large mealy potatoes are the best for mashing. Peel them thinly and boil in salt water. When they are done, pour off the water and put them back on the fire to steam ; after winch mash them with a wooden spoon and add boiling milk, some salt, and, if liked, a little margarine. Cold boiled potatoes can be prepared in the same way by mashing them through a wire sieve. &44 WHAT TO EAT AND WHY For 6 persons. 4 61.** POTATOES WITH FRIED ONIONS. 3 lbs. Potatoes . d. . *å x pint (2 glasses) Skimmed Milk f oz. (1 small tablespoonful) Sugar . Salt. ■ i 2 4 oz. Onions . . . . . £ 2i oz. Palmine . . . . . . 1 For 6 persons. 4å Peel the potatoes and boil them in a little salt water. As soon as they are soft, pour off the water and mash them thoroughly, adding salt, sugar, and milk. The quantity of milk depends on the quality of the potatoes. Let the mixture simmer for about io minutes. Fry the onions cut fine in the palmine and lay them over the mash. This dish is eaten alone. 62.** FRIED POTATOES. d. i|- lbs. Potatoes . . . . . .1 ij oz. Palmine ...... f 2 oz. (2 tablespoonfuls) Sugar . . . • i Salt. For 6 persons. 2 Small potatoes are the best for this dish ; of course large ones can be used if they are cut down to the size of small potatoes. Put the sugar dry in a somewhat warm frying-pan. As soon as it gets brown, add the palmine, and when this is melted add 1 spoonful of water ; allow to cook for a few minutes, then put in the potatoes and stir until they are all brown. 63.** POTATOES SAUTÉE. d. ij- lbs. Potatoes . . . . . .1 oz. Margarine ...... 1 \ oz. Onion, Salt ...... i For 6 persons. Cold boiled potatoes are cut into pieces ; melt and brown some margarine in a frying-pan, add the onions, let them colour and then put in the potatoes ; when they are nicely browned, add some salt. This is a nice addition to bread and butter for supper. 64.** CARROTS SAUTÉE. d. 1J lbs. Carrots . . . . . .1 11 oz. (2 large tablespoonfuls) Flour. . . $ 3 oz. White Bread Crumbs .... 4 2 oz. Onions ....... i 75 grains small teaspoonful) Pepper, Salt . £ 3X oz. Palmine . . . . • >45 COOKERY RECIPES The carrots are cut lengthwise, boiled and dipped in a batter of flour and bread crumbs, mixed with water, salt, and pepper, then fried in palmine. This is eaten with bread and butter, with or without onions 65.** BEETROOT SAUTEE. d. 2 lbs. Beetroot . • • • • • 2 11 oz. (3 tablespoonfuls) White Bread Crumbs . i 1 "level tablespoonful Pepper and Salt . . i 31 oz. Palmine . . • • • • For 6 persons. 4 Peel and boil the beetroots, slice them and leave them to soak in vinegar for a few minutes. Then dip them in a batter to which salt and pepper are added, and fry well in palmine. Serve with biown onion sauce and potatoes, or with fried onions, margarine and mashed potatoes. 66.** CELERY SAUTEE. d. 1 f lbs. Celery ..... ■ 3 i"oz. (2 large tablespoonfuls) Flour . 1 8" 1 oz. (2 tablespoonfuls) White Bread Crumbs 1 • '8 2-| oz. Palmine ..... . I For 6 persons. 4i Boil the celery in salt water. When fresh vegetables are prepared they must always be put in boiling water so as to preserve the nourishment they contain. When the celery is done, cut it into pieces, dip in a batter and fry in palmine. 67.** TOMATOES SAUTEE. Slice some ripe tomatoes, dip them in beaten egg and bread crumbs and fry to a nice colour. Serve with browned onion sauce (No. 212) and potatoes. I recommend particularly plain fried vegetables (Nos. 63 to 67). If they are not cut too thick and well fried, they are delicious, and are very economical when accompanied by plenty of potatoes and sauce. 68.** STEWED GREEN PEAS. d. 2 lbs. Green Peas . . . . . .5 £ oz. Margarine ...... f ii oz. (i£ large tablespoonfuls) Flour Water, Parsley ...... For 6 persons. 6} Take fresh green peas, boil them nearly soft in salt water, after which add the margarine and the flour; stir them well together; allow 10 minutes to simmer, add salt and sugar to taste, take from the fire and sprinkle a little parsley.WHAT TO EAT AND WHY 46 69.** STEWED CARROTS. I. i lb. Carrots ....... 1 1 pint Water. 2 oz. (2 large tablespoonfuls) Flour i oz. Margarine 1 tablespoonful Parsley, Salt . . . \ For 6 persons. 2J Clean the carrots and cut them into slices, boil them with as much salt water as will cover them ; as soon as they are soft enough, brown the flour in margarine, add the carrots and let them simmer for about 10 minutes. Draw from the fire and add chopped parsley. 70.** STEWED CARROTS. i lb. Carrots ..... 1 oz. Margarine .... 2 oz. (2 large tablespoonfuls) Flour . I pint Skimmed Milk Salt, Parsley ..... For 6 persons. 3J Clean the carrots and slice them, place them in boiling salt water, and cook till tender. Brown the flour in the margarine and make a sauce by adding the milk ; put the carrots in the sauce, add some salt and, when ready, chopped parsley. Cabbages, turnips, and kohlrabi can be cooked in the same manner ; the last two vegetables must be sliced and soaked in water over night. 7i.** STEWED POTATOES. Take boiled potatoes, warm or cold, slice them and prepare them like the above. 72.** STEWED CARROTS AND GREEN PEAS. d. i£ lbs. Green Peas (dried) . . . -4? 14 oz. Carrots ...... f 1 oz. Margarine ...... i 2 oz. (2 large tablespoonfuls) Flour . Water, Parsley . . . . . i For 6 persons. 6J Clean the carrots and cut them small, cook them with the green peas, after which they are poached like green peas. 73.** VEGETABLE FRICASSEE. Prepare vegetables the same as for stewing them ; use the vegetables and tubers in season, such as green peas, cauliflower, broccoli, carrots, asparagus, potatoes, etc., parsley roots, celery—the latter must be used very moderately on account of its strong flavour—and salsify.COOKERY RECIPES 47 Take 4 or 5 kinds of vegetables, cut up and mix them; when they are boiled, add parsley sauce and salt. This is a fiicassee without meat (a vegetarian fricassee). It has more flavour than one would suppose, but of course it must be nicely prepared; the choice of vegetables has to be studied and the expense is in proportion to the vegetables used. 74.** STEWED GREEN CABBAGE. cl. i£ lbs. Green Cabbage 11 oz. Margarine .... 14 oz. (11- large tablespoonfuls) Flour £ pint (1 "glass) Skimmed Milk 1 teaspoonful Sugar. For 6 persons. f i 3 ( Cut off the ribs of the leaves, wash these carefully and boil them in salt water, adding carbonate of soda to keep the green colour. When cooked, strain, pour some cold water over them and squeeze out the moisture, roll and chop fine with the flour on the mincing board. Melt the margarine in a saucepan and add the cabbage ; when it is warm pour the milk slowly over it and add salt and sugar to taste. It can be served as a dish by itself with an egg and fried croutons, or as a vegetable with fried potatoes. It can also be eaten with bread and butter. 75.** STEWED SPINACH. d. ij lbs. Spinach . . . . . . 2-| oz. Margarine . . . . . 1“ oz. (2-I- large tablespoonfuls) Flour . . a I pint (1 glass) Skimmed Milk . . . | Sugar and Salt to taste . .... \ For 6 persons. 5 Wash and pick the spinach, put it in boiling water with salt and a pinch of bicarbonate of soda and boil for about xo minutes. It is then strained and chopped, when dry, with the flour ; melt some margarine in a saucepan, add the spinach, some milk to taste, sugar and salt. The liquor of the spinach can be used instead of milk, for stewing. 76.** STEWED WHITE CABBAGE. 3 lbs. White Cabbage . . . . 1^ oz. Palmine . 3 i|- oz. (ij large tablespoonfuls) Flour . ! f pint (ii glasses) Skimmed Milk . . x Salt. For 6 persons. 5 Clean the white cabbage, cut in 8 pieces, and put it in cold salt water to boil When ready strain and chop. Make a sauce of palmine flour and mflk. Put the cabbage in the sauce, boil it for a short time to get it thoroughly warm ; add salt, and, if desired, a little su^ar48 WHAT TO EAT AND WHY 4i For 6 persons. 77. STEWED BRUSSELS SPROUTS. ij lbs. Sprouts 2 oz. Margarine 2 oz. (2 large tablespoonfuls) Flour 1 pint (2 glasses) Skimmed Milk Salt. d. 2i Z i For 6 persons. 5 Put the sprouts, with salt, in boiling water, boil until soft and strain. Make a sauce with margarine, flour, and milk, add the sprouts, bring to the boil and put salt and sugar if desired. The milk can be replaced by some sprouts liquor. This applies to all stewed vegetables. 78. RED CABBAGE. o.\ lbs. Red Cabbage ij oz. Palmine \ pint (1 glass) Beetroot Vinegar f oz. (3 teaspoonfuls) Sugar Salt. For 6 persons. qf- Cut the cabbage into fine strips, melt the palmine in a saucepan, and add some beetroot vinegar, sugar, salt, and a little water. Stew for 2 hours ; add some more vinegar and sugar and thicken slightly with potato or sago flour. If desired, part of the vinegar can be replaced by some of the water the cabbage was cooked in. 79 ** IRISH STEW. 2 lbs. White Cabbage lbs. Potatoes 5 oz. Carrots . 2^ oz. Margarine I pint (1 b glasses) Water Salt and Pepper to taste. d. 2 1 i 4t For 6 persons. Warm a little water in a saucepan, then place layers of cabbage, potatoes, carrots, sprinkling each layer with salt and pepper ; stew until the cabbage is ready. Then add some margarine, and, if necessary, some more salt. This dish tastes excellent without meat, but if remnants of meat or bacon should be at hand some of these could be added. 80.** BROWNED WHITE CABBAGE. 3^ lbs. White Cabbage . 2 oz. (2 tablespoonfuls) Sugar ij oz. Palmine Tpint (1 glass) Water. Salt. d. 3h I A 449 COOKERY RECIPES Remove the outer leaves and cut the cabbage fine put in a saucepar palmine and sugar, make a brown syrup of this and add the cabb g which you bring to a nice golden colour. Sprinkle with salt, add the water and stew for 2 hours. This must be constantly stirred so as not to burn the cabbage. 81 ** BROWNED CABBAGE OR TURNIPS. d. ■2£ lbs. Cabbage . . . • • • 2| iS oz. Palmine ...••• Jib. (4 tablespoonfuls) Sugar 2 b oz Salt. Water. For 6 persons. 3r Take off the outer leaves of the cabbage and cut the heart into pieces about ii inches long. Make a syrup with palmine and sugar, put in the cabbage, and, when a nice golden colour, add salt and water ; stew for 2 hours. Turnips and kohlrabi can be prepared in the same manner, but sugar must not be put in all at once, as some vegetables, being sweeter than others, require less, and taste differently ; some will require only one- fourth of the quantity given above. 82.** BAKED CARROTS. d. 14 oz. Carrots .... • i 3s oz. (3^ large tablespoonfuls) Flour • h £ pint (f glass) Skimmed Milk i Egg 1 j oz. Margarine .... b oz. (2 teaspoonfuls) Sugar 3 T . I . b • i 5 oz. Palmine .... . 2b For 6 persons. 61- Scrape the carrots, wash and boil them well in salt water. If the carrots are large cut them up after they are cooked. Melt the margarine in a saucepan and stir it with flour, milk, the yolk of an egg, sugar, and salt into a thick sauce. Then the white of the egg is beaten to a snow and carefully stirred into the dough, but this must not be prepared until required, as, by standing, it may become too thin. Throw the carrots into the sauce and bake them in palmine until they are a nice colour and crisp ; serve with melted butter or white sauce. 83.* POTATO FRITTERS. I. d. 11 lbs. Potatoes . . . . . .1 \ pint (£ glass) Skimmed Milk f 1 oz. Palmine ...... {- 2 oz. (2 large‘tablespoonfuls) Flour . 31 oz. (7 large tablespoonfuls) Bread Crumbs . |- 4 oz. Palmine . . . , . . 2" i glass Water. Salt and Pepper. For 6 persons. 4J* W.E. E50 WHAT TO EAT AND WHY For 6 persons. 5 Mash boiled potatoes through a wire sieve and, whilst they are still hot, mix with them palmine, milk, pepper, and salt. When the whole has cooled, take with a spoon part of the mixture, shape this into small fritters, and roll in white bread crumbs, then in a batter, with or without egg, and again in bread crumbs. Fry them in palmine in a frying pan and serve with parsley sauce (No. 201). The quantity of milk depends on the quality of the potatoes, and care must be taken not to make the mixture too soft. 84.* POTATO FRITTERS. II. 14 oz. Potatoes ..... 1 f oz. (3 large tablespoonfuls) Bread Crumbs f oz. (3 large teaspoonfuls) Flour i Egg b pint (1 glass) Milk .... 1 oz. Onion ...... Salt and Nutmeg to taste 3|- oz. Palmine ..... d. b i 3 For 6 persons. 4J- Mash some cold potatoes, stir them well with chopped onions, bread crumbs, flour, egg, salt, nutmeg, and, if liked, pepper, then milk. When this is done proceed as for ordinary fritters, fry in hot palmine. If for Mock Turtle (No. 197), make your fritters very small. 85.* POTATO FRITTERS. III. d. 14 oz. Potatoes ...... ^ 3 Eggs 3 1 oz. Onions . . . . . • ‘ | 1 Nutmeg and Salt to taste . . . • j 4 2^ oz. Palmine . . . • • 1 For 6 persons. 43- Potatoes cooked the day before are preferable to others. Mash and mix with chopped onions, nutmeg, and the yolks of the eggs, and mix the whole with the whites of the eggs, beaten to a snow. Shape as for ordinary fritters, and fry them in palmine in a frying pan. Serve with Butter Sauce (No. 204) and plenty of potatoes. If the fritters are to be eaten alone the meal is not so inexpensive. No doubt it seems curious to eat potatoes with potato fritters, nevertheless, the two go very well together. 86.* POTATO BALLS. 12 oz. Potatoes . 2 oz. (4 tablespoonfuls) Bread Crumbs £ oz. Onions .... I oz. Palmine 1 Egg . . • • . • 3 pint (£ glass) Skimmed Milk •J oz. Salt and Pepper b tablespoonful of Milk . 2 oz. (4 large tablespoonfuls) White Bread Crumbs 31 oz. Palmine . . • d. b l i I I 14COOKERY RECIPES 5i Potatoes cooked the day before are preferable to others. Mash them with a spoon or through a sieve, add 1 egg, salt, bread crumbs, and spices ; then melt the palmine, fry the onion a very light colour in it, and mix with milk and the mashed potatoes. Take small pieces of this mixture when it has been well stirred with a spoon, shape them into balls or rolls or oblong croquettes. Roll in bread crumbs, dip in the white of egg mixed with a spoonful of milk, and again in bread crumbs. Fry in very hot palmine a deep golden colour. Serve with browned butter and potatoes or with fried turnips. 87. HARICOT BEAN BALLS. d_ J lb. Plaricot Beans . . . . .1 5 oz. Carrots . . . . . . . j oz. Onions . . . . . . . t £ Pepper and Salt . . . . . . f 2 oz. (4 large tablespoonfuls) White Bread Crumbs £ 1 Egg i 1 pint (£ glass) Skimmed Milk 1 2 £ oz. Palmine . . . . . . x For 6 persons. 4! Soak the beans for 24 hours, boil them, and as soon as they are done, mince them with the boiled carrots or pass them through a sieve. Add the egg, bread crumbs, milk, the onion finely chopped, pepper and salt. Shape as fritters and fry them in palmine in a frying pan. This can be eaten with mock turtle, but they are usually served with tomato sauce and potatoes or stewed carrots. 88. ITALIAN BEANS. i lb. Haricot Beans 1 tablespoonful Salt 1 tablespoonful Bicarbonate of Soda" 4 oz. Margarine .... 7 oz. Tomato Purée 2 oz. Onions i oz. (i- tablespoonful) sugar . d. i !-2- hnUS+ uk u beaTS f?r 24 hours, then add the bicarbonate of soda and boil till quite soft, when the water is poured off. Brown the margarine and onions adding to them the beans and the tomato purée My flavour with salt and sugar. Potatoes may be eaten with this dish. Y 89. LENTIL FRITTERS. 2 oz. Lentils . 4 oz. Water Gruel . [ 14 oz. Potatoes 2oz. (4 large tablespoonfuls) White Bread Crumbs A small Onion å oz. (2 teaspoonfuls) Flour k oz. (2 teaspoonfuls) Potato Flour 1 Egg ... * 3 i oz. Palmine Salt, Pepper, and Maggi .’ 1 pint (?,■ glass) Lentil Soup. d. i 1 i i 1 4 For 6 persons. 4^ E 2WHAT TO EAT AND WHY 52 7 For 6 persons. Soak the white bread in milk and prepare the mash as usual. If you have any gruel left over you can use it, as it will give a nice flavour. Shape into small fritters, fry in palmine, and serve with butter sauce and vegetables or potatoes. The quantity given is rather large, but it is wise to prepare mashed lentils in large quantities, as they can always be used later on. 90. LENTIL STEAK. d. 7 oz. Lentils ....... f 2 oz. Haricot Beans ..... 77 grains (i£ teaspoonfuls) Salt 2 oz. (4 large tablespoonfuls) White Bread Crumbs \ oz. (ij tablespoonfuls) Flour ... £ pint (J glass) Skimmed Milk . . . J 5! oz. Palmine . . . . . 2J For 6 persons. 4J Soak the lentils and beans, boil them together, but put the beans first as they usually take longer than lentils. When done, mince or pass through a wire sieve and stir in bread crumbs, flour, salt, and a little milk. Shape like an oblong loaf. Cut into slices, which are fried in palmine and served with brown onion sauce and potatoes. In the three preceding bean and lentil dishes all kinds of remnants of broth, turnips, carrots, potatoes, etc., may be mixed. The greater the mixture, the better the taste, as a rule. 91. LOBSCOUSE. Take some cold lentil fritters or lentil steak, cut them in dice and warm them up in palmine ; lay on a hot dish. Slightly brown some onions, add some cold sliced potatoes and salt. As soon as the potatoes are hot put them over the fritters and serve with browned butter or with butter sauce. 92. MOCK TURTLE. For this Potato Fritters, III. (No. 85) with Bread Dumplings (No. 118) can be used. Prepare a Brown Sauce (No. 215), put in this the fritters and the dumplings, which must be very small (ii inches long). Serve in a flat dish with hard-boiled, halved eggs and puff pastry cut small, or with croutons. For Mock Turtle, see No. 197. 93.* POTATO DUMPLINGS. d. 2 j lbs. Potatoes . . • • • • 2 Eggs . . • • • • • • 2 2 oz. (2 large tablespoonfuls) Flour ... I 9 oz. Palmine •••••• 3+ Salt.COOKERY RECIPES 53 Peel some raw potatoes and cook them in salt water. As soon as they have boiled, mash them and let them cool a little, then add the eggs, flour, and salt to taste. Shape like dumplings by rolling some of the mixture in the hands, previously floured, the thickness of a thumb. Fry them a nice golden colour and serve either with stewed apples or vegetables. 94.* WHITE CABBAGE FRITTERS. i lb. White Cabbage .... 1 Egg ii oz. Margarine ..... f oz. Onions ...... | oz. (3 large teaspoonfuls) Flour 3 tablespoonfuls Skimmed Milk oz. (3 large teaspoonfuls) Potato Flour . 2 oz. (4 large tablespoonfuls) Bread Crumbs 15 grains (J teaspoonful) Nutmeg 3 oz. Palmine ..... Pepper and Salt to taste. d. 1 1 1 1 t b For 6 persons. 6 Boil the white cabbage and chop it up, then fry the onions in the margarine, and add, at the same time, this and all the other ingredients to the cabbage. Shape into fritters and brown in palmine in a frying pclll. 95.* FRITTERS OF VARIOUS ROOTS. 2J oz. Carrots 2 oz. Celery Root -4 lb. Turnip . 7 oz. Potatoes \ oz. Onions .... oz. (5 tablespoonfuls) Bread Crumbs 2 Eggs i oz. (1 large tablespoonful) Flour 1 tablespoonful Skimmed Milk Pepper and Nutmeg to taste . 2 oz. Palmine For 6 persons. d. 1 3T J •f 1 i 1 8 1 3 8 3 ¥ 4f Prepare and wash the various vegetables and boil them in sab- water then stram and pass the vegetables with potatoes (cold for54 WIIAT TO EAT AND WHY 96.* TOMATO FRITTERS. £ lb. Potatoes ..... 7 oz. Tomato Purée .... 2i oz. (5 tablespoonfuls) Bread Crumbs . 2 Eggs 5 oz. Palmine ..... d. \ 1 x 2 2 2 For 6 persons. 6 Mash the cold boiled potatoes, add the other ingredients, shape into fritters and brown them in palmine in a frying pan. Serve with boiled Macaroni (No. 142). 97.* SPINACH DUMPLINGS. 11 lbs. Spinach .... i lb. (8 tablespoonfuls) Bread Crumbs 1 oz. Palmine .... 1 pint (1 glass) Skimmed Milk 2 Eggs i oz. (2 large teaspoonfuls) Potato Flour -1- oz. (2 large teaspoonfuls) Flour Salt, Nutmeg, and Pepper. For 6 persons. d. 2i 3 4 1 61 Pick and wash the spinach, boil for about 10 minutes with a little bicarbonate of soda, and strain. When the spinach is quite dry chop it fine ; soak some bread for about \ an hour in milk, fry it in palmine until it rises to the surface. When the mixture has somewhat cooled, stir in the eggs, flour, and spices, then shape into dumplings and cook this for about 10 minutes. Serve with horseradish sauce. This can be put in a well-buttered pudding dish and steamed in boiling water or prepared like fritters. 98.* POTATO RING. I. if lbs. Potatoes .... £ pint (£ glass) Slummed Milk \ oz. Margarine .... 1 Egg . . . • • J- oz. (1 tablespoonful) Bread Crumbs Salt and Pepper. For 6 persons. d. 1 2f Mix the mashed potatoes with milk, margarine, salt, pepper, the yolk of an egg and the white beaten to a snow. Fill it in a ring- shaped mould which has been greased, cover with bread crumbs, and boil for 20 minutes. Serve with vegetables (Nos. 68 to 72), which are disposed within the ring of the potatoes.COOKERY RECIPES 55 99.* POTATO RING. II. d. i lb. Potatoes i 4 Eggs 4, f oz. Onions ...•••• s teaspoonful Nutmeg ..... s For 6 persons. 41- Mash cold potatoes, mix well with the yolks of eggs, finely chopped onion, salt, nutmeg, and the whites, beaten to a snow. Fill it in a ring-shaped mould, which has been greased, cover with bread crumbs, and boil for 20 minutes. Serve with lemon sauce, caper sauce, mock Dutch sauce, potatoes or stewed vegetables (Nos. 68 to 70) placed inside the ring. 100.** POTATO PIE. 1 lb. Potatoes ..... 9 oz. Beetroot ..... 2 Eggs £ pint (£ glass) Milk .... b oz. (1 large tablespoonful) Bread Crumbs Pepper and Salt ..... 1 oz. Palmine . . . d. i b 2 1 2 For 6 persons. 4i Take a pie dish rubbed with palmine, put in it a layer of cold, sliced potatoes, sprinkle with pepper and salt. Then put a few pieces of palmine, and above this a layer of boiled beetroot which has been allowed to stand for a few minutes in vinegar ; repeat the successive layers until the dish is filled up, taking care to have potatoes and some palmine on the top. Then add the eggs beaten in milk, pour over the dish some bread crumbs and bake in the oven for 1 hour. Serve with melted or browned butter or even with Butter Sauce (No. 204). 101.** POTATO AND TOMATO PIE. This is prepared like the previous recipe, tomatoes taking the place of beetroot. 102. MEAT AND POTATO CAKES. d. ^ lb. Meat Scraps . . . . . .2 2 lbs. Potatoes ...... 1 1 Egg " 1 2 oz. (4 tablespoonfuls) Bread Crumbs . . £ x teaspoonful Chopped Parsley . . 1 \ lb. Palmine . . . . . . i j- For 6 persons. $1 Boil the meat, then cut it up. Mix the potatoes with the half of the egg, the parsley, and some seasoning, coat round each piece of meat with some of this, shaping like a potato ; brush over the outside with the other half egg, well beaten, coat with the bread crumbs and frv in the hot palmine. JWHAT TO EAT AND WHY 56 103.** POTATO AND WHITE CABBAGE PIE. d. 2 lbs. Potatoes . . . . . j j lb. White Cabbage . . . . 1 2 Eggs 2 oz. (2 large tablespoonfuls) Flour £ 1 pint (2 glasses) Skimmed Milk . . - if f oz. Onion . . . . . . ) ’ 3 oz. Palmine . . . . . j *£ Salt and Pepper. For 6 persons. After having melted the palmine in the frying-pan, fry the sliced onion, then add sliced boiled potatoes. When they are a nice colour put them in a pie dish. Cut some boiled white cabbage small, treat the same as potatoes, and then fill the pie dish with a layer of potatoes and a layer of cabbage, not forgetting salt. Pour on the top the batter of flour, milk, and eggs, then salt the rest of the milk, pour it over and bake for 1 hour. Serve with butter sauce. 104.** VEGETABLE PUDDING. oz. (2J large tablespoonfuls) Flour ij oz. Palmine ..... 11 pints (3 glasses) Skimmed Milk . 2 Eggs 3 oz. Cauliflower ..... 7 oz. Brussels Sprouts .... 1 oz. Dried Green Peas .... £ lb. Carrots ...... 5 oz. Potatoes ..... d. £ £ O ~£ t £ i i For 6 persons. To this any kind of cold vegetable can be added. Boil the vegetables in salt water, strain, slice the potatoes and the carrots. Brown some flour with palmine, add some boiling milk, and, when sufficiently cooked, allow to cool and stir in the yolks of the eggs, and finally the whites, beaten to a snow. Fill a greased pie dish with layers of the various vegetables, pour the batter over and bake in a slow oven for about 1 hour. Serve with melted or browned butter. 105.** VEGETABLE PUDDING. 21 oz. (2^ large tablespoonfuls) Flour i|- oz. Palmine ..... 1 pint (2 glasses) Skimmed Milk 2 Eggs \ lb. White Cabbage .... Jlb. Carrots ...... \ lb. Potatoes ..... II. d. For 6 persons. 5£ Prepare like No. 104. In these two recipes the layers can be very varied, and asparagus makes a particularly nice addition.57 COOKERY RECIPES For 6 persons. 106. CAULIFLOWER AU GRATIN. £ ]b. (4 large tablespoonfuls) Flour 3 oz. Palmine 1J pints (2J glasses) Skimmed Milk 4 Eggs • • -£• lb. Cauliflower d. i H if 4 For 6 persons. 9 Prepare the cauliflower and boil it in salt water, then strain Cook the flour in palmine, add the boiling milk, and, when cool, add 1 yolk at a time, and salt to taste. Beat the whites to a snow and cover the cauliflower with this. Bake in a pie dish for 1 hour and serve with melted butter. 107. SALSIFY AU GRATIN. This is prepared the same as the cauliflower, taking the same amount of salsify as of cauliflower. 107a. SPINACH PIE. 2 Eggs 31 oz. (3-f large tablespoonfuls) Flour l pint (J glass) Skimmed Milk 3^ oz. Palmine . . . . £ lb. Spinach .... £ pint (£ glass) Sour Cream i Egg f- oz. Grated Parmesan . \ pint (1 glass) Water. For 6 persons. d. 2 1 2 1 2 i % i£ 12 1 1 9i Bake thin, cold fritters, and let them cool. Cut into strips and mix with finely chopped spinach which has been cooked in salt water or with winter cabbage. Roll the strips of fritters, lay them in a greased pie dish, cover with a mixture of sour cream, the grated cheese and eggs, and bake in a good oven for b hour until a nice golden colour. This forms a dish by itself, but if required for more than six persons, it can be served wdth potatoes and salt. 108. LENTIL HASH. 6 oz. Lentils ..... oz. Dried Apples 21 oz. Palmine .... £ oz. (1 teaspoonful) Sugar £ oz. Onions ..... 1 tablespoonful Lemon Juice . I- pint (1 glass) Apple and Lentil Liquor Salt and Pepper to taste d. \ ) 1 1 1 x 8 4WHAT TO EAT AND WHY 5S Soak and boil the lentils, strain, and mash with the onions and apples. Fresh apples have to be peeled and cored, dried ones must first be soaked. Then put the mixture on the fire with as much of the lentil and apple liquor as will form a thin gruel. Season with salt, pepper and lemon juice ; add palmine and serve with baked potatoes. 109. STUFFED WHITE CABBAGE. 2 lbs. White Cabbage ..... 2i oz. Rusks ....... i Egg Salt and Nutmeg to taste . . . . ) £ oz. Onion . . . . . . . j I pint (1 glass) Skimmed Milk d. 2 1 1 I i For 6 persons. 5 Remove the outer leaves of a good hard white cabbage, cut off the top of it, to be used as a hd, hollow the cabbage and fill with the stuffing. This is composed of plain, unsweetened rusks, broken up and mixed with egg, onion, spices, and milk. Do not make too stiff a stuffing. Fill the cabbage with it, put back the top, tie it up in some of the large outer leaves and boil for 2 or hours. Stuffed cabbage is excellent if prepared the day before, then sliced and fried in palmine. Serve with browned butter or butter sauce. Lentil Stuffing (No. 89) can also be used for this as well as for the next recipe. Stuffing (No. 174) will appeal more to most people. no. FRIED STUFFED CELERY ROOT. ii lbs. Celery Root 2 oz. Rusks . pint (j,- glass) Skimmed Milk I oz. Onion and Salt 1 Egg .... 2 oz. Palmme d. 3 a 1 a 4 For 6 persons. 6 Peel the celery root and partly boil in salt water ; then cut off the top for a lid and make a hole in the centre of the root for the stuffing. After putting in the stuffing tie on the lid with cotton and finish boiling. The stuffing is made of broken-up rusks, finely-chopped onion, and milk. It must be thin enough to be poured into the celery root. Should there be any stuffing left over, mix it with the celery which has been taken out, enclose in a bag and boil with the rest. This dish is improved by cutting the stuffed roots into slices and frying them in palmine. Serve with Butter Sauce (No. 204) and plenty of potatoes. If preferred, mixed stuffing (No. 174) can be used instead of vege- tarian stuffing. 111. GULASCH. For this use up cold fritters or forcemeat; cut in pieces and warm up in a brown sauce (No. 212 or No. 215). Serve with boiled macaroni or mashed potatoes.59 COOKERY RECIPES For 6 persons. 8i E. FRITTERS* PUDDINGS, RAISED CAKES, Etc. As many of these dishes are highly concentrated, it should be remembered that too much should not be taken. Eating too freely of them gives a feeling of heaviness, and for this reason they are reputed to be difficult of digestion. ^ , The heaviness clue to the use of Hour is obviated by the addition oi ecrcrg. Fruit is also an improvement, the only fault is that eggs and fruit are expensive ; some of the last dishes of this group especially do not contain nourishment in proportion to the expense. When, however, both fruit and eggs are cheap, those dishes are welcome. ii2. RUSKS SOUFFLÉ. d. 5 oz. Rusks . . . • . 2 oz. Palmine ...... i 3 Eggs 3 oz. (2J- tablespoonfuls) Sugar . . . ) j 2 tablespoonfuls Milk . . . . . f For 6 persons. 7 Break up the rusks and moisten them in milk ; add the creamed palmine with the yolks and sugar, then the whites beaten to a snow. Grease a pie dish, put a layer of broken rusks, then one of jam or stewed fruit, and pour the batter over. Bake in front of the fire for 30 to 45 minutes. 113. CURRANT AND TREACLE PUDDING. d. 1 lb. Flour (16 large tablespoonfuls) ■ if \ lb. Suet • 4 3 oz. Bread Crumbs (6 tablespoonfuls) 1 • 2 £ lb. Currants (4 tablespoonfuls) 1 1 Lemon ...... 1 \ lb. Treacle ...... • iz 9| Chop the suet and mix it with the flour and a pinch of salt; make into a stiff paste with cold water. Roll out half, and line a pudding basin with it; put in a layer of treacle, then a layer of bread crumbs, and grated lemon rind mixed and a few currants. Fit in a round of crust and repeat this till the basin is full, finishing with crust. Dip a pudding cloth in boiling water, sprinkle on a little flour, tie this tightly over the basin and boil the pudding for 3 hours. 114.* BUTTERMILK PANCAKES. f lb. (12 large tablespoonfuls) Flour 1^ pints (3 glasses) Buttermilk 2 Eggs 7 oz. Palmine 1 teaspoonful Bicarbonate of Soda 1 tablespoonful Salt d. if 2 2WHAT TO EAT AND WHY 6o Mix the salt and flour well together and add the buttermilk gradually. Dissolve the bicarbonate in part of the milk, mix this with the dough, and proceed at once with the frying of the fritters. Beat the yolks and whites separately. Add the milk, salt, and sugar to the yolks. Pour one-third of this mixture on the flour, and stir to a smooth paste. Add the remainder of the milk, and beat well, then add the palmine. Heat and butter a small frying pan, and pour into it enough of the mixture to cover the pan, when brown, turn and brown the other side. Spread with butter and sugar or jelly, roll up, and sprinkle with powdered sugar. These pancakes may also be made without eggs, but it then requires more practice to make them well. 115. WHOLEMEAL PANCAKES. d. ij pints (3 glasses) Buttermilk . . .2 10 oz. (10 tablespoonfuls) Wholemeal Flour . ij i\ oz. (3 large tablespoonfuls) Flour 2 teaspoonfuls Bicarbonate of Soda . . • j 1 Salt j * 5 oz. Palmine . . . . . .2 For 6 persons. 5f Mixthe flour and salt well together, then add the buttermilk gradually. Should the dough be too stiff, put more milk or water. J ust before baking add the bicarbonate of soda dissolved in milk. Proceed as above. 116. APPLE PANCAKES. d. 10 oz. (10 large tablespoonfuls) Flour . ij 3! oz. Wholemeal Flour (3J large tablespoonfuls) b i Egg 1 i b pints (3 glasses) Buttermilk . . .2 x teaspoonful Bicarbonate of Soda i 9 oz. Palmine . . . . . 1 lb. Apples ....... 2 For 6 persons. 10^ Make a somewhat thick dough, as in No. 114, put it in small cakes in a frying pan and lay over each a round of apple cored. Cover the apples with a little more dough and bake on both sides. 117. RICE PANCAKES. 9 oz. (9 tablespoonfuls) Rice . pints (5 glasses) Skimmed Milk . 1 Egg ..••••• 6 oz. (6 large tablespoonfuls) Wheat Flour 3^ oz. Palmine . d. 1 31 3 4 li For 6 persons. « Take cold rice gruel, mix with flour, egg, salt, and sugar, if liked. Do not allow the dough to stand too long as it would become thin ; it is best to fry it at once in plenty of palmine. Serve with sugar and jam.COOKERY RECIPES 61 For 6 persons. 7^ 118. BREAD DUMPLINGS. a. 41 oz. White Bread 2' 1 £ oz. Palmine i l pint (h glass) Skimmed Milk . • i i -Egg 1 Salt. For 6 persons. 2J Cut off the crust of the bread and soak it in milk. Melt the palmine and fry the bread in it, stirring all the time until it is quite stiff. Put it in a dish and stir it with egg, salt to taste, and if preferred a.little sugar and nutmeg. Then boil the dumplings in salt water. These can be used for mock turtle, fruit soups, etc. 119. GROUND RICE DUMPLINGS. 4 oz. (4}- tablespoonfuls) Ground Rice 11 pints "(3 glasses) Skimmed Milk . \ oz. (2 teaspoonfuls) Potato Flour . d. JL 21 i For 6 persons. 4 Boil a rice gruel, and, when cool, carefully stir in the egg, potato flour and salt. There is no need to mix this too well as it may easily become too soft. When the dumplings have been boiled, not too long, in boiling water throw them in cold water and lift at once with a slice on to a flat dish. 120. BAKED DUMPLINGS. 4 oz. (4 large tablespoonfuls) Flour . 2f oz. Palmine ..... 3 Eggs 4 pint (1 glass) Water. Salt. d. JL 2 i 3 For 6 persons. 4-I- Fry some flour in palmine, and add little by little some boiling water ; cook until the dough detaches itself from the pan and does not stick to the spoon. When this is done, and the dough cool, stir in the eggs, one after the other, add a little salt, and boil the dumplings from 8 to 10 minutes. 121. PRINCESS PUDDING. 4z oz- (4l large tablespoonfuls) Flour . . i- 2| oz. Margarine . . . . . 1 1 pint (2 glasses) Skimmed Milk . . i j. 31 oz. (3J tablespoonfuls) Sugar | 4 Eggs 4“62 WHAT TO EAT AND WHY After the flour and margarine are fried together, add boiling milk slowly. Ihe dough is ready when it does not stick to the pan or spoon. Let it cool, then add the yolks, one after another, stirring them thoroughly in, after which mix in the whites, beaten to a snow. Fill a well-greased, oval-shaped mould, and bake in a moderate oven for about i hour. Serve with fruit sauce. 122, BATTER PUDDING. d. 7 oz. (7 large tablespoonfuls) Flour . . i 2f oz. Margarine . . . . . . i | pint (i glass) Skimmed Milk f 3)1 oz. (31 tablespoonfuls) Sugar . . . . \ 3 Eggs 3" 5 Lemon drops. H Stir the margarine until it gets white, and then again stir for \ hour with the sugar, yolks, tepid milk and lemon juice (or the peel of half a lemon with the juice). Lastly, add the whites, beaten to a snow, and the flour, and then boil in a pudding basin, well sprinkled with flour, or bake in a pie dish in front of the fire. Serve with jam or fruit sauce. 123. PLUM PUDDING (CHRISTMAS J lb. (16 tablespoonfuls) Bread Crumbs f lb. Mutton Suet ..... £ lb. (4 large tablespoonfuls) Flour . Pinch of Spice ..... I lb. Raisins and Currants i Egg PUDDING). d. ■ l ■ 3. I For 6 persons. 5 J Chop suet finely, stone and clean raisins and currants, mix all together with flour, bread crumbs, spice, and a pinch of salt. Stir in the eggs, well beaten, making the mixture rather moist. Boil in a well-greased basin for 3 hours. 124. GERMAN RICE PUDDING. d. 9 oz. (9 tablespoonfuls) Rice . . . .1 1 pint (2 glasses) Skimmed Milk . . it if oz. (2 tablespoonfuls) Sugar f 4 Eggs 4 2| oz. (2 large tablespoonfuls), Sultanas . . 1 1 pint (2 glasses) Water. 3 drops Lemon Juice. For 6 persons. Bring to the boil milk and water, put in this the rice, previously scalded, and boil until it is almost done. When the liquor is cooled, add sugar, sultanas, 4 yolks, some grated lemon peel or lemon juice,63 COOKERY RECIPES and finally the whites, beaten to a snow. Put the whole in a \\ ell- greased mould, bake for about hour, and serve with fruit sauce. This same pudding can be made with fruit. In that case, put half the rice in the mould, then a layer of apples, sliced, plums, or blackberries, and cover with the remainder of the rice. 125. ALMOND PUDDING OR CUSTARD. d. x quart (4 glasses) Skimmed Milk . . .3 3 oz. (3 tablespoonfuls) Corn Flour ... § f oz. (1 tablespoonful) Potato Flour . . & 1 Egg * 2 oz. (2 tablespoonfuls) Sugar . ... \ i£ oz. Almonds . . . . . - Ih For 6 persons. 6J Boil ij- pints of the milk with the chopped almonds, then add the wheat starch or cornflour and the potato flour, mixed with \ pint cold milk and 1 yolk, well beaten, stirring the whole while boiling. After having put in the necessary sugar and the white, beaten to a froth, pour into a glass dish and serve with castor sugar sprinkled on the top and fruit sauce. / 126. RICE PUDDING. d. 3 oz. (3 tablespoonfuls) Rice . ... % x quart Milk . . . . . . .3 1 oz. Margarine ...... ^ 2 Eggs 2 ~ 2 oz. (2 tablespoonfuls) Sugar £ 2 oz. Almonds . . . . . • i* 7? Boil the rice, milk and chopped-up almonds to a porridge, stir in the margarine and allow the mixture to cool. Then stir in the sugar and the yolks of the eggs ; whisk the whites and then add them last. Bake for an hour in the oven. To be eaten hot with compote. 127. RICE MOULD. d. 9 oz. (9 tablespoonfuls) Rice . . 1 9 oz. (9 tablespoonfuls) Sugar . . . 11 1 Lemon . . . . , _ j 1 tablespoonful Rum 1 i quart (4 glasses) Water. For 6 persons. 3i Cook the rice in 1 quart of water till all is absorbed, then add the fnnali-rU thei3nel °f half a lemon and the luice of one, and boil a little longer then fill a wet mould, well sprinkled with sugar cool turn out and serve with fruit sauce. ’64 WHAT TO EAT AMD WHY 128. BREAD PUDDING. S oz. (16 tablespoonfuls) White Bread Crumbs 1 pint (2 glasses) Skimmed Milk 3 Eggs A oz. (i£ tablespoonfuls) Ground Rice 2 oz. (2 tablespoonfuls) Sugar . 2 oz. Margarine ..... £ teaspoonful Cinnamon .... d. I A 3 1 6£ Pour the milk over the bread crumbs and let it stand until the crumbs are soft (but not broken up), then stir in the ground rice, sugar, spice, margarine (previously melted) and eggs (previously whisked), and pour the mixture into a pudding-dish, well buttered and sprinkled with flour ; boil for i| to 2 hours. Serve with fruit sauce. White bread may be substituted for crumbs—crusts or stale bread may be used—and the margarine may be omitted. 129. BREAD PIE. 13 oz. White Bread 3£ oz. (3J- tablespoonfuls) Currants . i Egg A pints (3 glasses) Skimmed Milk . t.\ oz. (2J tablespoonfuls) Sugar i£ oz. Margarine .... £ oz. (1 teaspoonful) Bread Crumbs . d. I f 1 1 1 2i 1 •> For 6 persons. 6£ Put some stale bread, soaked in milk, in a well-buttered oval pie dish with boiled currants. Then mix together half a glass of milk, egg, and sugar, and pour over the bread. In order to prevent the top from becoming hard, lay a few pieces of palmine or margarine on the top and sprinkle some bread crumbs over. Bake for about 1 hour and serve with fruit sauce. The currants can be replaced by jam. 130. YEAST CAKE. d. 1 lb. (16 large tablespoonfuls) Flour . . 2 2£ oz. Margarine or 2 oz. Palmine . . .1 A oz. (1 large tablespoonful) Sugar ... £ 1 Egg . . ... . . .1 1 pint (2 glasses) Skimmed Milk . . A 1 oz. Yeast h 5 drops Lemon Juice. For 6 persons. 6£ Mix well together the margarine or palmine, sugar and egg, then add the yeast, flour and milk with the lemon juice. When the dough is ready put it in a greased cake mould, allow to rise, and then ba.ke for 1 hour in a moderate oven. Turn out, partly cool, and serve with fruit sauce.COOKERY RECIPES 6 5 131. YEAST DUMPLINGS. 15 oz. (15 large tablespoonfuls) Flour 11 oz. Yeast ..... 1 oz. (1 large tablespoonful) Sugar . A- pint (1 glass) Skimmed Milk 4;} oz. Palmine ..... 2 Eggs For 6 persons. 7J Make a dough with flour, yeast, sugar and milk (see No. 147), cover it and let it rise. Then add the creamed palmine, eggs, salt, and work the dough until it bubbles. Leave it again in a greased pudding basin sprinkled with bread crumbs until it has risen nearly to the top. As soon as it has risen, steam in boiling water, the water reaching to the half of the basin, and steam for an hour. Serve with jam (pear, cherries or plums), or with a brown sauce. d. T? ■J. A. I 132. TOASTED CROUTONS. d. 8 oz. White Bread ...... 3. • 4 Cut slices of stale bread into dice and toast them in a hot dry pan until they are crisp and a nice brown colour. 133- WHITE BREAD TOAST. Whole slices of bread can be toasted in the same way as croutons. 134. FRIED CROUTONS. I. d. £ lb. White Bread ...... |. if oz. Palmine ...... A For 6 persons. if Cut white bread into dice, melt and brown the palmine in a frying pan, and fry the croutons in this until they are crisp and a nice colour. 135. FRIED CROUTONS. II. f lb. White Bread ..... d. 3. if oz. Palmine .... • 4 A if oz. Sugar (2 level tablespoonfuls)’ i • 4 For 6 persons. iA m as *be Famine gets brown put in the sugar. When this is cited put m the bread cut into dice, turning them until the croutons ^CeoCOl<iUr.' 11 !s best t0 allow them to cool in the pan, but stir again once or twice so long as the pan is hot. W.E.66 WHAT TO EAT AND WHY 136. FRIED BROWN BREAD CROUTONS. cl. $ lb. Brown Bread . . . . . .1 oz. Palmine . . . . . 1 3 oz. Sugar (3 tablespoonfuls) £ For 6 persons. 2J Cut the brown bread into pieces of convenient size and fry in palmine and sugar. Melt the palmine in the frying pan, and when it is hot, put the bread in it ; turn it well and then add the sugar ; fry until it is a nice colour, but do not let it get hard. 137. FRIED SLICES OF BREAD. d. 5I- oz. White Bread ..... J 3! oz. Palmine . . . . . . i| For 6 persons. 2 Cut slices of white bread into dice and fry them quickly in plenty of hot palmine to prevent the bread from being tough. Croutons are used for garnishing many dishes, such as mock turtle. 138. DEVONSHIRE TOAST. d. 1 lb. White Bread . . . . . ii 3! oz. (3J large tablespoonfuls) Sugar . . \ 1 pint (2 glasses) Skimmed Milk . . ii 2 oz. (4 tablespoonfuls) Bread Crumbs . . £ 4-|- oz. Palmine . . . . . I4 -}. oz. Cinnamon ...... \ For 6 persons. 54- Soak some slices of white bread in milk, lay them on a dish sprinkled with sugar and cinnamon, dip in bread crumbs and fry in palmine. Serve with fruit, sauce or jam. 139. MACARONI ROULETTES. d. 2| oz. Macaroni ...... 2 £- oz. Palmine ...... i 2 oz. Tomato Purée . . . . • 1 1 \ oz. (i£ large tablespoonfuls) Flour . . J J pint (£ glass) Skimmed Milk $ 1 Egg ...••••• 1 1^- oz. (3 tablespoonfuls) Bread Crumbs . . 2 oz. Palmine For 6 persons. 4-1 Break the macaroni very small, and put it in cold water with plenty of salt to boil. When it is done, strain and pour cold water over to prevent the macaroni from sticking together. Then fry the flour inCOOKERY RECIPES 67 palmine, add milk, the tomato purée and the yolk of an egg well^eaten ■ the sauce warm put the macaroni in and let cool. As soon as tne whole is cold, cut the mixture in slices, roll in white bread crumbs, then in e<™ beaten with a tablespoonful of milk, and again in bi ead crum is , fry fn hot palmine a nice colour. Serve with fried white cabbage, arov 1 sauce, and tomato purée and potatoes. 140. MACARONI RING. 5 oz. Macaroni . • 1 pint (t glass) Skimmed Milk 2 Eggs Salt. For 6 persons. Break the macaroni and boil in salt water. Beat the eggs thoroughly with milk, add salt, then the macaroni, and put the whole in a greased mould ; bake from 20 to 30 minutes. Serve inside the ring stewed Green Peas and Carrots (No. 72)> or only stewed Carrots (Nos. 69 and 70). 141. MOCK COD. d. 7 oz. Macaroni . . . . . • 11 pints (3 glasses) Skimmed Milk . . 2J 3*oz. (3 heaped tablespoonfuls) Flour . . £ 2 oz. (4 tablespoonfuls) Breadcrumbs . 'll 1 teaspoonful Salt . . . . . . ) ‘ 3 oz. Clarified Dripping . . . . .1 5* Break the macaroni into small pieces and boil it in the milk. When it is soft, place the mixture in a flat dish to cool; when it is cold and stiff, cut out pieces in the shape of cod’s tails, dip them in flour thickening and bread crumbs and fry them a light brown colour in clarified dripping. Serve with potatoes and light tomato sauce. d. 1 i 142. BOILED MACARONI. d. 7 oz. Macaroni . . . . . 1 teaspoonful Chopped Parsley 21 oz. Margarine . . . . .1 1 quart Water. For 6 persons. 2$ Break the macaroni and put it in cold salt water. Bring to the boil, and when done, strain. Shake the macaroni in melted margarine and sprinkle with the finely chopped parsley. Serve with tomato or lentil fritters. F 2WHAT TO EAT AND WHY 68 143. CURRANT AND RICE MOULD. 7 oz. Ground Nice (7 tablespoon fuls) 2 2 pints (5J glasses) Skimmed Milk . 2 oz, (2 tablespoonfuls) Currants oz. (2 tablespoonfuls) Sugar 1 Egg • • . . A oz. Almonds d. 1 3 3 4 A 1 A For 6 persons. Boil a gruel of ground rice, and mix with this, while still hot, sugar almonds and yolk of egg well beaten. Stand custard glasses or cups m cold water ; put a layer of currants at the bottom of the cups, and fill with the hot mixture. As soon as this is cold turn out on a flat dish and serve with fruit sauce. 144.* PRUNES AND RICE PUDDING. 4 oz. Rice (4 tablespoonfuls) .... 1 if pint (3J glasses) Skimmed Milk . . . 2I 4 oz. (2 teaspoonfuls) Sugar . . . " 4 oz. Almonds . . . . . ' j. 5 drops Lemon Juice . . . . j 4 oz. Dried Prunes . . . . x 2 oz. (2 tablespoonfuls) Sugar . . . . i 4 oz. (1 heaped teaspoonful) Sago Flour . . 1 4 oz. (2 heaped teaspoonfuls) Potato Flour . j 1 pint (2 glasses) Water. For 6 persons. 4! Boil some rice, but take care to keep the grains a nice colour and quite whole. Add the flour, finely-chopped almonds, sugar, lemon juice, and when cold, put in a glass dish. Spread some stewed prunes over this. Stewed apples, strawberries, or any other kind of fruit can be used. f45** RICE RING WITH WHIPPED CREAM AND STEWED PRUNES. d. ij pints (3 glasses) Skimmed Milk . . 2f 3 oz. (3 tablespoonfuls) Rice .... 4 24 oz. (24 tablespoonfuls) Sugar ... 4 f oz. Almonds ...... f 4 oz. Gelatine (6 sheets) ..... f 4 pint (1 glass) "Whipped Cream . . .3 For 6 persons. 7f Scald the rice and boil it in milk until soft, although the grains must be quite whole. Remove the saucepan from the fire, add the chopped almonds, sugar, gelatine dissolved in cold water, and as soon as the whole is cool stir in carefully the whipped cream. Have a wet mould ready, sprinkled with sugar, fill with the mixture, and allow 3 or 4 hours for setting. Then turn out on a flat dish and serve with stewed prunes inside the ring. The cream can be replaced by 5 or 6 whites of egg beaten to a froth should you have any over from some other dish.69 COOKERY RECIPES Stewed primes are made of 1 lb. prunes, 1 quart water, 3^ oz. sugar, 2 tablespoonfuls sago flour. 146.* PRUNE PUFFED PIE. d. 7 oz. Stoned Prunes . . . . -3 1^ oz. (i£ tablespoonfuls) Sugar . . • . i i~oz. (2 teaspoonfuls) Sago Flour . . . I I 1 3^ oz. (3J- large tablespoonfuls) Flour . . j 2 2|- oz. Palmine . . . . . .1 1 pint (2 glasses) Skimmed Milk . . i£ 3 Eggs 3 3| oz. (3I- tablespoonfuls) Sugar . . • i i pint (1 glass) Water. For 6 persons. 9| Make a somewhat thick prune compote, and put it on an oval dish. Cook some flour in palmine and thin with boiling milk until it does not stick to the spoon, and allow to cool. Then stir in the sugar and egg, pour the mixture over the compote, and bake in a moderate oven for about an hour. The mixture given above can be replaced by boiled ground rice as for Apple Omelette (No. 167). 147.* PLUM TART. 8 oz. (S large tablespoonfuls) Flour . 1 oz. Yeast ..... J pint glass) Skimmed Milk 1 Egg • ij o?. Palmine .... f oz. (3 teaspoonfuls) Sugar Salt 2 lbs. Fresh Plums. For 6 persons. 71- Mix the yeast, milk, and sugar, make a hole in some flour placed on a dish, pour the mixture in it and work a dough with part of the flour ; set it to rise in a warm place, covering it. When it has risen, add sngari the egg, palmine, and a little salt, and work until the dough bubbles ; cover and set again to rise in a moderately warm place. In the meantime, grease well a baking plate, spread flour over it and roll the dough over this, large enough so as to be able to turn up the edge all round after the plums—-stoned and cut in quarters—have been spread on the pastry. Bake for 1 hour, sprinkle with sugar, and let the tart get cold before serving. Instead of plums, apples or blackberries may be used. 148.* DAMSON SOUFFLEE. 8 oz. Stoned Damsons . . . . T' 4 Whites of Eggs . . . , ’ 2 12 oz- (U large tablespoonfuls) Sugar . x Whipped Cream from x pint (1 glass) Cream 6" £ pint (1 glass) Water. For 6 persons. y i7o WHAT TO EAT AND WHY ( look until soft stoned damsons, cut up finely, and castor sugar. Beat the whites of eggs to a snow, stir the damsons in, pour into a greased pie dish and bake for about $ hour in a moderate oven ; be careful not to let the top become brown. Serve with whipped cream and sugar. 149.* DESSERT PLUMS (or PRUNES). d. 7 oz. (14 tablespoonfuls) Brown Bread 7 oz. Stoned Plums 3 oz. (3 large tablespoonfuls) Sugar . 1 pint (2 glasses) Skimmed Milk 2 Yolks ..... f oz. (3 teaspoonfuls) Flour 11 oz. (ii tablespoonfuls) Sugar 1 2 i u 1 For 6 persons. 61- Soak the plums first in cold, then in hot water and cut them in quarters. Crumble the brown bread, mix the sugar with it and add to the plums ; put in a glass dish and cover with Custard Sauce (No. 220). 150.* APPLE CAKE WITH BROWN BREAD. d. 1 lb. Brown Bread 2 oz. Margarine .... f oz. (1 level tablespoonful) Sugar . f oz. (1 level tablespoonful) Potato Flour 2 oz. Chocolate .... 2 lbs. Apples .... 2 oz. (2 tablespoonfuls) Sugar . 2 3 I I I 3 1 7i The brown bread, which may be crusts or stale pieces, is dried in the oven. When dry it may either be crushed with the rolling-pin or put through the mincing machine. Mix the bread and sugar together and put them in a pan with the margarine, then fry, stirring continually, until it steams, after which it must be mixed with the chocolate, broken up. Make a compote of the apples. Place the bread and compote in layers in a dish, with bread on the top, and decorate with pieces of apple. Serve with cream if desired. 151. APPLE CAKE. I. d. 14 oz. (28 tablespoonfuls) Brown Bread Crumbs 2 3 oz. Margarine . . . . . .1 3 oz. (3 large tablespoonfuls) Sugar b ij lb. Stetved Apples . . . . . 3S £ pint (b glass) Whipped Cream . . .3 For 6 persons. 10 Fry slightly brown bread crumbs in margarine with sugar ; then put in a deep dish a layer of bread and a layer of apples till full ; press well together, turn on to a fiat dish and decorate with whipped cream. If economy is a question, jam can take the place of cream.7i COOKERY RECIPES 61 For 6 persons. 152.* APPLE CAKE. II. d. £ lb. Dried Apples . . • • • ‘ 1 f 2 oz. (2 large tablespoonfuls) Sugar . . • , i J oz. (2 heaped teaspoonfuls) Potato Flour . 1 3 5 oz. (10 tablespoonfuls) White Bread Crumbs . ) 11 oz. Margarine ..••••£ 1 pint (2 glasses) Water. For 6 persons. 3 Boil your dried apples well and let cool. Then take some white bread crumbs or crushed rusks, fried in margarine with sugar, and fill a glass dish with layers of bread and apples. If the cake is to be served in another dish the first layer must be bread. Finally serve with jam or whipped cream (from 1 glass to b pint of cream). i53. APPLE PIE. d. 1 lb. Dried Apples . . . . . 2 oz. (2 large tablespoonfuls) Sugar . •. J b oz. (2 teaspoonfuls) Sago Flour . . . / 3 6 oz. White Bread . . . . . . j 3 1 \ oz. Margarine . . . . . i b"pint (r glass) Skimmed Milk . . . ) I I oz. (2 teaspoonfuls) Flour . . . . j i Egg i 1 pint (2 glasses) Water. For 6 persons. 5 Butter a pie dish and put at the bottom some thick stewed apples or other kind of fruit. Then add some dice of white bread, fried in margarine ; make a batter of flour, egg, salt, and milk, add to this the Avhite of egg, beaten to a stiff froth, and pour the whole over the bread ; bake for about b hour. Vanilla can be added to the batter. i54. RHUBARB CAKE. d. 1 lb. Stewed Rhubarb . . . . .2 £ lb. (4 tablespoonfuls) Sugar . ... b 2 oz. Margarine ...... |- 7 oz. (14 tablespoonfuls) White Bread Crumbs . b For 6 persons. 3 J Prepare this the same as Apple Cake (No. 151), thick stewed rhubarb taking the place ox apples. 155. fig cake. i lb. Figs ...... A lb. (16 tablespoonfuls) White Bread Crumbs i Egg 1 pint (2 glasses) Skimmed Milk i pint glass) Water. d. 3 1 t 1 i AWHAT TO EAT AND WHY 72 Soak the ligs the previous evening, strain and chop them. Then take a gieased cake tin, fill with layers of the figs and white bread ci umbs, this being at the bottom. Beat the egg with milk, pour over the pudding, bake for i hour, turn out and serve cold. 156. BREAD AND BUTTER PUDDING. 6 Rolls (8 oz.) . . . . . .03 3 oz. Butter . . . . , .03 2 oz. (2 tablespoonfuls) Sugar . . .0 o'r 1 pint (2 glasses) Skimmed Milk . . . o i i 3 Eggs 03" x lb. Apples . . . . . .02 3 oz. (3 tablespoonfuls) Sultanas and Currants o 1 1 Bay Leaf. For 6 persons. 1 1] Butter slices of new rolls, then fill three-fourths of a pie dish with layers of rolls, egg, sliced apples, sultanas, and currants, the last layer being apples. Mix thoroughly the sugar in the cold milk, putting in a bay leaf, pour over the pudding, and bake quickly for f hour in a hot oven. 157. IMPERIAL VIENNESE CAKE. d. 3 i. u u For 6 persons. 71- Mix the sugar with the yolks and add alternately milk and flour, until it forms a stiff dough. Then put in the whites, beaten to a froth, a little salt, and fry in plenty of melted palmine in an oblong pan, first on one side then on the other. When it is done, break it with a fork, sprinkle castor sugar over, and serve either plain or with stewed fruit. 2 oz. (2 tablespoonfuls) Sugar . 10 oz. (10 tablespoonfuls) Flour 1 pint (2 glasses) Skimmed Milk 3 oz. Palmine 158. SNOWBALLS. 4 oz. (4 large tablespoonfuls) Flour . 6 Eggs \ pint (£ glass) Skimmed Milk Salt ...... 1 oz. (1 tablespoonful) Sugar . I lb. Palmine .... For 6 persons. 10 Mix the flour with 2 eggs, add the yolks of the others, milk, salt, sugar and palmine ; knead well. Put in the whites of four eggs beaten to a froth, divide the paste in four parts, let fall through a funnel into boiling fat, turning the funnel constantly, so that the dough spreads as large as a plate and forms like a puffy snowball. As soon as it is a nice yellow, sprinkle over with sugar or serve with fruit sauce.COOKERY RECIPES 73 159. APPLE BATTER. d. 3 Eggs 3 8 oz. (8 tablespoonfuls) Sugar . . . .1 8 oz. (8 large tablespoonfuls) Flour . . x f packet Baking Powder I 2 lbs. Apples . . . . . .4 Peel of a Lemon. Fov 6 persons. 91- Beat eggs and sugar to a snow ; add flour and baking powder, and make a smooth dough. Then fill a dish one-third full with sliced apples, pour the batter over and bake in a moderate oven from 1 to if hours. The dough can be flavoured either with lemon peel or a spoonful of arrack. Serve either hot or cold. 160. PUDDING FOR THE GODS. d. 3.)- oz. Margarine . . . . . i f 3-f oz. (3 J tablespoonfuls) Sugar . . of 4’Eggs .' 4' 1 Lemon ....... of I oz. (5 teaspoonfuls) White Bread Crumbs . of 3 oz. (3 large tablespoonfuls) Flour . . , . of 1 pint (2 glasses) Skimmed Milk . . .if For 6 persons. 8f Stir the margarine and sugar until it gets white, then stir in the yolks, two at a time, add the bread crumbs, flour, milk, lemon-juice and the grated rind of the lemon. When all is well stirred, add the whites of the eggs beaten to a froth ; fill with this a pudding basin greased, and steam in boiling water from if to 2 hours. Serve with fruit sauce. 161. CHERRY PUDDING. 7 oz. Rolls (7 Rolls) . s. 0 d. 3f f pint (1 glass) Skimmed Milk 0 2f oz. Palmine . . 0 I 3 Eggs 0 3 if oz. (if tablespoonfuls) Sugar . 0 °i 6 grams (f teaspoonful) Cinnamon 0 oi f oz. Almonds . . 0 n V 2 lbs. Cherries ..... 0 4 For 6 persons. I U . .. Si1,recl the ,uew foils, cut them very fine and soak them in milk. Mix the palmine with the yolks, sugar, cinnamon and finely-chopped almonds ; add the stoned cherries, and pour the whole well stirred in a avell-greased mould lined with white bread crumbs and bake tor r hour. This dish is best when allowed to cool before servin'5- with sugar. Sprinkle74 WHAT TO EAT AND WHY For 6 persons. F. EGG DISHES. Such dishes, I must confess, are expensive ; yet they are not quite so dear as one might think, for one cannot eat a very large amount of rich egg dishes. But one thing must not be forgotten, i.e., buy your eggs in spring when they are cheap, and keep them for the time when they are dear. Preserving eggs is easy. How to Preserve Eggs in Lime Water.-—Procure new-laid eggs and put them in a large zinc pail with fresh slaked lime. For this procure a cake of lime for id. or 2d. Let water drip over it until the lime dissolves ; an hour or two of dripping will turn the cake of lime into a powder. Divide this between two or three basins, according to your requirements, and pour cold water enough to make a thin mixture. Put the eggs in this. The lime will sink to the bottom, yet the bacilli will be kept off so long as the eggs remain covered by the lime water above. If you have made sure to have really new-laid eggs, they can be kept for a whole year perfectly fresh, and can be used for all purposes, save for soft boiling. I could give many more egg recipes, but in my opinion it is not good to eat too many eggs ; neither is it necessary. Everybody knows how to boil eggs. It is not expensive to enjoy an egg for supper at the time they are cheap ; but of course one must eat one egg to four slices of bread and butter, and not four eggs to one slice of bread and butter. HARD BOILED EGGS, POACHED EGGS, SCRAMBLED EGGS, ETC. are prepared as usual. Hard boiled eggs had better be chopped line and spread on bread and butter. For these dishes, as for soft boiled eggs, the quantity of bread and butter is an important consideration. 162. SOFT BOILED EGGS. 163. EGG CAKE WITH WHITE BREAD. d. 8 oz. White Bread . iioz. (ij tablespoonfuls) Sugar 6 Eggs n\ oz. Palmine I pint (ii glasses) Skimmed Milk 1 • 4 . 6 1 x75 COOKERY RECIPES 164. EGG CAKE WITH BROWN 5 Eggs ...•••• 2 oz. (2 large tablespoonfuls) Flour . \ pint (1 glass) Skimmed Milk 1 teaspoonlul Sugar .... Salt ....... 5 oz. Brown Bread .... 2 oz. Palmine ..... For 6 persons. BREAD. d. • 5 • i ■ l :)■ • 1 7f After sifting the flour into a basin add part of the milk and mix together ; then add the yolks, and when these are well beaten, put, for each yolk, two large spoonfuls of milk, a little salt and a small teaspoonful of sugar. Add to this the whites, beaten to a froth. Fry the brown bread in palmine, and, when done, take out ; pour into the same pan the batter you have prepared and bake slowly. As soon as it begins to stiffen, lay the slices of brown bread on the top with a few pieces of palmine over them before you turn to bake on the other side. Serve with castor sugar. 165. EGG CAKE WITH BACON. s. d. 6 Eggs 06 3 oz. (3 large tablespoonfuls) Flour . o oj A pint (1 glass) Skimmed Milk . . o of 7 oz. Bacon . . . . . .05 For 6 persons. r 0} This is prepared like the previous recipe. Cut the bacon in small dice, fiy it, pour the batter over and cook slowlv. Turn over to brown on the other side. 166. BREAD OMELET. 6 oz. Stale Rolls (5 Rolls) 3 Eggs 2 oz. Palmine .... 1 quart (4 glasses) Water. Salt and Nutmeg to taste. For 6 persons. Cut up live stale rolls and soak them for x hour in water \fter pressing out the moisture add two tablespoonfuls of milk, the e^gs* salt nutmeg, and pour the whole into an omelet pan with hot fat° mixing as much as possible together. As soon as the omelet is brown on one S!de take it up with a slice, and turning it over, fry the other side in hot fat. Serve with vegetables, salad, or stewed fruitWHAT TO EAT AND WHY 76 167. APPLE OMELET. 5 oz. Dried Apples . . . . 2 j. 2i oz. (2d tablespoonfuls) Sugar . . . I 1 oz. (1 heaped tablespoonful) Sago Flour 1 pint (2 glasses) Skimmed Milk . . .id 3d oz. (3d tablespoonfuls) Ground Rice Flour . t id oz. (i£ tablespoonfuls) Sugar . . , 4 3 Eggs . ‘ 3 I pint (id glasses) Water. For 6 persons. 8^ Either dried or fresh apples can be used for this. Stew them, taking care to make a thick compote ; boil also some rice flour, and, when all is cold, add the yolks with sugar, and afterwards the well- beaten whites. Butter a pie dish, put the stewed apples at the bottom, and cover with the batter. Bake in a slow oven for about 1 hour and serve with castor sugar. Damsons can take the place of apples. 168. DAMSON OMELET. I. 7 oz. (7 large tablespoonfuls) Flour . 4 Eggs 4 oz. Palmine ..... 2 glasses Skimmed Milk .... \ oz. (2 teaspoonfuls) Sugar Salt ....... 1 lb. Stewed Damsons .... d. 3 ■i 4 i* o For 6 persons. 9| Cook the flour in the palmine and thin with boiling milk. As soon as this is cooled mix with it the yolks, salt, sugar, and lastly the whites, beaten to a froth; make three omelets out of this and put them on a hot dish. Before serving,-put the three layers on the top of one another, with stewed damsons or jam between each and sprinkle with sugar. Such omelets require experience in order to get them light enough without their collapsing before being brought to table. To avoid this it is a good tiling to put the omelets into a hot oven after they are done. 169. PRUNE OMELET. II. 31 oz. (3 large tablespoonfuls) Flour. 31 oz. Margarine . ... 1 pint (2 glasses) Skimmed Milk 4 Eggs i|- oz. (i| large tablespoonfuls) Sugar J oz. Palmine ..... 12 oz. Stewed Prunes .... d. 1 o li II O For 6 persons. 9 J This recipe is easier than the preceding one, as only two omelets are required ; if possible, they should be made at the same time in two different pans, so as to be able to dish as soon as they are ready, in order 'to keep them from collapsing. If you have only one pan, keep the first omelet in the warm oven until the other is ready.77 COOKERY RECIPES 170. RICE OMELET. 7 oz. (7 tablespoonfuls) Rice . • : < it quarts (6 glasses) Skimmed Milk 1 "oz. Almonds 3 Eggs . 3 A oz. (3! tablespoonfuls) Sugar Salt. d. 1 4 i 1 3 10 For 6 persons. Boil the rice, and when it is cooled add the yolks, almonds, or peel of a lemon, sugar, and lastly the whites, beaten to a snow. Bake in a pie dish and serve with warm fruit sauce. 171. POTATO OMELET. i£ lbs. Boiled Potatoes . 4 Eggs ..... 3 oz. Margarine f oz. (1 small tablespoonful) Sugar teaspoonful Salt . d. 1 4 iri- Stir the margarine till it is white, mash the potatoes and then stir both together with sugar, salt and the yolks of the eggs, one at a time, finally adding carefully the whisked whites. Turn the mixture into a well-buttered omelet dish and bake for a good half-hour. Serve with fruit sauce. 172. CURRIED EGGS. d. 4 Eggs .... i oz. Margarine 4 oz. (4 tablespoonfuls) Rice 1 teaspoonful Flour 1 teaspoonful Curry 1 small Onion Lemon Juice and Salt J pint .Potato-Water. 51- Wash and drain the rice, chop the onion and fry slightly in margarine, sprinkle in the flour and curry. Let it cook for a few minutes ; add the potato-water, little after little, season with salt and lemon juice and cook gently until the rice is tender (about 40 minutes). In the meantime shell the eggs and cut them in eights ; put the eggs in the pan and when warm serve on a hot dish, the eggs in the middle and the rice as a border. G. CHEAP DISHES OF VEGETABLES, MEAT, FISH, ETC. I will preface the following mixed meat dishes by a few remarks. As will be seen, I have not included all the ordinary meat dishes— roast joints, steaks, cutlets, etc. These dishes are so thoroughly dealt with in other cookery books, and so familiar to every housekeeper, that it seemed to me unnecessary to mention them. Apart from this, both78 WHAT TO EAT AND WHY 8 For 6 persons. on grounds of health and economy, I am unwilling to advise the use of these dishes, the effect of which is almost inevitably to make one eat more meat than is wholesome. 1 have therefore for the most part only included dishes in which meat is combined with other wholesome and cheap articles of diet. In this way the consumption of meat is more easily reduced. But of course ordinary meat dishes may be used just as well, if it is borne in mind that only a minimum of meat should be eaten and larger quantities of potatoes, bread, etc. But most people find it difficult to remember this. If No. 173, for instance, is served with plenty of sauce and potatoes, and one accustoms oneself to eat principally the two latter, only taking a mouthful of meat now and then, the consumption of meat can be reduced to a very small quantity. It will be seen that in Nos. 192—196 I have used such parts as kidneys, liver, heart and tongue. Many will consider this objectionable, but, as mentioned above, I do not believe we have a.ny proof that these foods are more harmful than ordinary meat, and they have the advantage of being cheaper. In Nos. 197—200 I have shown how pig’s and calf’s head may be used for cheap and palatable dishes. As half a head has to be bought at a time, there is meat enough for more than six persons. This gives us, therefore, with the calf’s head, enough mock turtle for several dinners. In the case of the pig’s head I have shown how the rest may be used for sausages and pickling. 173.* POTATO CHOPS WITH MEAT. d. 8 oz. Pork or Beef for boiling (off cuts) . . 4 l lb. Potatoes ......£ 5 oz. (10 large tablespoonfuls) White Bread Crumbs b 1 oz. (1 large tablespoonful) Flour . . -lx 2 oz. (4 large tablespoonfuls) White Bread Crumbs ) 4 1 oz. Palmine ...... ^ Salt and Pepper. 5h Mince the meat very fine and mix with the boiled and mashed potatoes and bread crumbs, add salt and pepper and make flat rissoles ; dip these in flour and water, then roll in bread crumbs and fry in palmine. Serve with Butter Sauce (No. 204) and potatoes. Should plenty of potatoes be eaten with those fritters, the dinner will not cost much. By using a smaller quantity of bread the flavour will be improved, but the expense greater. 174.* POTATO FRITTERS WITH MEAT. d. 8 oz. Pork or Soup Meat . . . .4 8 oz. Potatoes ...... 4 2 oz. (4 tablespoonfuls) Rusks $ 2 oz. Onions . . . . • • • j Pepper and Salt . . . . • • . i £ oz. (2 teaspoonfuls) Flour . . . . ' I pint (1 glass) Skimmed Milk 4 1 Egg 1 2 oz. Palmine ...... 179 COOKERY RECIPES First mince the meat twice alone, then twice with cold potatoes- boiled in preference the day before—and rusks. After this add the flour and finely-chopped onions, then mix thoroughly well with egg and milk. The milk as in all fritters must be added gradually. Add salt and pepper, shape into fritters and fry in palmine, but not too quickly, a nice light brown. This as well as the following imitations can be prepared in the most varied ways. The rusks can be omitted, and then an equal quantity of meat and potatoes used ; or else the potatoes may be left out altogether and a larger or smaller proportion of rusks put in. 175. BUBBLE 5 oz. Beef Scraps . 2 lbs. Potatoes 1 Cabbage 6 oz. Lentils . 1 Onion 4 oz. Palmine Salt and Pepper. AND SQUEAK, d. • . . . 2 I h i For 6 persons. 6 Peel and cut onion into thin slices and fry it in the hot palmine until cooked, add the potatoes, cabbage and lentils (which have been previously cooked), season with salt and pepper to taste. Mix all well together and serve very hot with the meat, fried lightly brown, placed on the top. J 176. MACARONI AND HAM PIE. 5 oz. Macaroni ...... 11 pints (3 glasses) Skimmed Milk . 7 oz. Lean Boiled Ham .... Pepper to taste . . . . . j 1 oz. (1 teaspoonful) Bread Crumbs . . ( d. 12 2i 7 For 6 persons. 11 Break the macaroni, parboil it and cook it in milk. Then add chopped ham, pepper, put in a well-greased pie dish, sprinkle bread crumbs over, and bake from £ to 1 hour in the oven. Serve with melted FRITTERS. 177.* HAM 8 oz. Boiled Potatoes 6 oz. Boiled Ham (lean) . 1 Eg.? 1 tablespoonful Skimmed Milk 1 oz. (2 tablespoonfuls) Bread Crumbs Pepper .... 2 oz. Palmine d. i 6 1 ) i J 8} For 6 persons. Put the boiled ham and boiled potatoes three or four times through the mincing machine, then stir with eggs, milk and pepper ■ shape like smali rissoles, roll in bread crumbs and fry in palmine to a light brown colour. Serve with green vegetables or stewed potatoes.WHAT TO EAT AND WHY i o.A So 178. HOUSEHOLD PUDDING. A lb. Meat Scraps .... 1 lb. Bread Crumbs (16 tablespoonfuls) I- lb. Mutton Suet .... h lb. Potatoes .... 4 oz. (4 level tablespoonfuls) Oatmeal 2 Eggs Herbs, Parsley, Pepper and Salt 1 Large Onion .... cl. 2 a H 2 A I 1 i j- Sir For 6 persons. Boil the potatoes and mash them. Cook the onion for 15 minutes and cut into small pieces, mince or chop the meat as fine as possible. Mix all the ingredients well together, adding the eggs, well beaten, and pepper and salt to taste. Spread the mixture into a well-greased baking tin and bake in a moderate oven for 1 hour. Serve very hot. 179.* TOBBINGTON. 8 oz. Bacon ..... 3 oz. Boiled Potatoes 2 oz. White Bread .... 1 oz. (1 tablespoonful) Flour . f oz. Onion ..... I pint (i£ glass) Skimmed Milk 19 oz. Cauliflower .... 8 oz. Carrots ..... 5 oz. (5 tablespoonfuls) Rice . x quart Skimmed Milk . Salt and Pepper. 1 I d. h 2i 3 I 2f Put the meat through the mincing machine six times, the last three times with potatoes, white bread, dour, salt and onion, and if desired, one egg. Then add the milk gradually, 2 tablespoonfuls at a time, and stir well. Boil the caulidower and carrots till they are nearly soft and place them at the bottom of a dreproof dish, laying the force-meat above them, and above that again the rice, boded in 1 quart of mdlc. Put the dish into a hot oven and bake for J to 1 hour. Serve with melted butter, or with a light sauce made with the water in which the caulidower was boiled. Other vegetables, such as leeks, Brussels sprouts, etc., may also be used. 180.* TIMBALE WITH CAULIFLOWER. 11 oz. Bacon .... 1 Egg 2 oz. White Bread i£ oz. (i£ large tablespoonfuls) Flour 1*07. (1 tablespoonful) Potato Flour f pint (i-J glasses) Skimmed Milk Salt and Pepper ... 1 lb. Caulidower d. 1 1 ) ) t i i U iiCOOKERY RECIPES St Make a force-meat of the bacon, eggs, white bread, flour, potato- flour, milk, salt and pepper, and treat it as the preceding, though this must be a little firmer. Boil the cauliflower till nearly soft in salt water. Butter a pudding dish and cover the bottom and sides with force-meat, then put in the cauliflower, cover with a layer of force-meat and boil the pudding for i^ hours. Serve with brown sauce and potatoes. Other vegetables may be used instead of cauliflower. l8l. AUBAIN. d. 4 oz. White Bread ...... i 10 oz. Boiled Potatoes ..... | 2 oz. Margarine ...... f £ pint (1 glass) Skimmed Milk % 2 Eggs 2 5 oz. Cold Meat . . . . . • § oz. (J tablespoonful) Bread Crumbs . . | 7h Soak the bread (which must be free from crust) in the milk ; when it is well soaked, mix it with the potatoes, which must be first well mashed with the margarine and the yolks of the eggs. When this is all well stirred together, mix with it the meat (finely minced) and the whites (whisked). Put the mixture into a ring-shaped mould, well buttered and sprinkled with flour, and steam for J to x hour. Serve with macaroni in tomato sauce. 182.* MIROTON. 5 oz. Cold Meat . 2^ oz. Margarine . 2J oz. Flour ...... 11 pint (3 glasses) Potato Soup. 3 pz. Tomatoes . 3 lbs. Potatoes . \ pint (1 glass) Skimmed Milk \ oz. (1 level teaspoonful) Bread Crumbs . Salt, Paprika. 1 s i i ii I i 7\ Cut the meat into thin slices and lay them at the bottom of a dish. Cut the tomatoes also into thin slices and lay them on the top of the meat. Pour over this a smooth, brown sauce made of margarine, flour, potato soup, salt, paprika and a little browning. Mash the potatoes in milk and spread them on the top. Sprinkle with bread crumbs and bake for £ hour in a hot oven. May be decorated with chopped cucumber.82 WHAT TO EAT AND WHY 183. RISSOLES. i oz. (1 large tablespoonful) Flour . Salt 1- pint (*■ glass) Milk £ lb. Cold Meat .... i Egg I oz. (i| tablespoonful) Bread Crumbs 2- | oz. Palmine .... £ pint (£ glass) Water. d. 1 2 8 1 i ) 1 For 6 persons. 10J Make a smooth paste of flour, salt, and a cupful of milk, leaving this on the fire, and stirring until it no longer sticks to the saucepan. Add the finely-chopped cold meat, mixed with one egg, stir whilst on the range and allow to cool. When it is cold shape into long rissoles, roll in bread crumbs, and fry for 5 minutes in swimming fat a nice brown colour. Serve with salad or with potatoes and vegetables. 184.* DICE OF BACON WITH ONION SAUCE. d. 5 oz. Bacon . . . . . -3« f oz. Onion ....... ^ 2 oz. Flour .......£ 1 quart Skimmed Milk . . . . .3 3 lbs. Potatoes . . . . . B 8 Cut the bacon into dice, lay these in a warm pan and fry them till they are brown and crisp. Then take them out and put the onion (cut up) and the flour into the fat ; fry these well and then thin gradually with the boiling milk. The dice of bacon should be served in the sauce, and potatoes eaten with them. 185.* GREEN CABBAGE AND BACON. d. i£ lb. Green Cabbage . . . -2 11- lb. White Cabbage . . . . -2 f oz. Margarine ...... i 3 tablespoonfuls Cream . . . . £ lb. Bacon ....... 6 I pint (1 glass) of Soup and Fat (Stock). For 6 persons. nf Clean and wash the green cabbage, cut. up line and boil with the cut up white cabbage in the stock from the bacon. When done, press to dry it thoroughly. Then melt the margarine in a saucepan, put in the cabbage, and cook for some time with the cream and part of the skimmed stock. The bacon to be cut in thin slices and eaten with cabbage.COOKERY RECIPES 83 186.* FRIED BACON IN BREAD CRUMBS. d. £ lb. Bacon ....... 9 2 oz. (2 large tablespoonfuls) Flour . . • i 1 oz. (2 table.spoonfuls) Bread Crumbs . . £ . 9h Less 4 oz. Fat (left over) . . . .2 For 6 persons. 7^ Cut the bacon in pieces and after beating it, if too salt, soak in lukewarm water or milk. Then make a paste of flour and milk or water, dip the soaked and dried bacon in this, roll in bread crumbs, and fry in dripping or in palmine. As soon as the bacon is browned, finish cooking Slowly. The bacon can be fried without bread crumbs ; then it shrinks much, but yields more dripping. Serve with plenty of potatoes. 187. VEGETABLE ROLLS. s. d. 3 lbs. White Cabbage . . . .03 5 Stale Rolls . . . . . . o 2| 10 oz. Pork . . . . . .05" 2 Eggs 02 i oz. Onions, Salt and Pepper to taste . o oj 4 oz. Palmine . . . . . o i-J- For 6 persons. 1 2] Cut the head of a white cabbage and halve it; cut out the stalk, the inside leaves of the cabbage, and mince them ; put the outside on a laige, deep dish, throw boiling water over it, and covering this with a second dish, let it stand for h hour. Then stew until soft the chopped leaves in a tablespoonful of hot palmine ; soak the rolls in water, chop the pork, and make a mixture of the fried cabbage pork eggs, rolls, onions, and salt. Fill each of the large leaves with as much stuffing as they will hold, roll up, and cook for about 1 hour in plenty of palmine. Serve with sauce and potatoes. J 188. CHICKEN WITH RICE. 1 Chicken. .... s. • 2 d. A 10 oz. Macaroni O 0 1 Onions, Parsley and Cloves . O •^2 oX 8 oz. (8 tablespoonfuls) Rice O I-i “h oz. (2-I- large tablespoonfuls) Flour . O x -1 Ov- 2 oz. Palmine .... r\ 4 5 drops Lemon Juice. • VJ °i- For 6 persons. 11 fruss the chicken and parboil for a few minutes in salt water with onions, parsley roots and clove ; then put in cold water to coof The make a light brown sauce of flour and palmine, well seasoned with lemon juice, and stew the chicken in this £ hour. Then put "f a Tin^84 WHAT TO EAT AND WHY mould well greased, rice, boiled in salt water, and, when set, turn out on a dish ; put in the centre the stew with the fowl and macaroni, which may have been left over from the previous day. One fowl will serve for two dinners : boil the fowl the first day with leeks, carrots and celery in plenty of water (2^ quarts). This broth is eaten on the first day as first course, small forcemeat balls and cut-up root vegetables are added to it; for second course pancakes or a pudding may be served. Next day Boiled Rice (No. 1) may be taken as first course, followed by the fowl, which has been browned in a saucepan, served with Butter Sauce (No. 204) and potatoes. 189.* COD CROQUETTES. d. 8 oz. Dried Cod . . . . . . 7 oz. Potatoes ...... \ 1 oz. Margarine ...... f i Egg . i 1 tablespoonful Milk . . . . . \ Nutmeg and Pepper . i Salt to taste . . . . ' ij oz. Flour (11 large tablespoonfuls) . / j if- oz. (3 tablespoonfuls) Bread Crumbs I 1 2 oz. Palmine ...... J For 6 persons. of Bone boiled cud and chop it fine, then put it in melted margarine, but do not fry it ; then mix it with cold mashed potatoes, cooked if possible the day before ; add a spoonful of flour, egg, milk, spices, and make a thick glutinous mixture and shape into fingers about inches long, roll in bread crumbs, then in flour and water or in egg and again in bread crumbs, and fry in plenty of palmine a nice colour. It is easier to fry croquettes when they have stood some time. Serve with Mustard Sauce (No. 217) and potatoes. 190. FISH HASH. 2 oz. Margarine .... 2 oz. (2 heaped tablespoonfuls) Flour 1 pint (2 glasses) Skimmed Milk 1 pint Fish Soup. 2 j>- lb. Boiled Potatoes . 5 _oz. Boiled Cod (net weight) . f oz. Mustard (mixed) 1 teaspoonful Salt . d. 3 1 1 f I "o For 6 persons. 6 Instead of fresh cod, salt fish may be used, but then only 3 oz. are ^As a rule remnants of boiled fish are used. , , Fry the margarine and flour and tlnn with boiling milk and fish soup • when the sauce is well boiled, season with mustard and sal . It should not boil with the mustard in it, as that will make it bitter. Put in the potatoes and the fish (both cut up) and stir carefully.COOKERY RECIPES »5 191.* FISH FRITTERS. i lb. Haddock . 7 oz. Potatoes . 1 Egg 2 Whites • . Pepper and Salt to taste 2 oz. (4 tablespoonfuls) Bread Crumbs 3 oz. Palmine .... cl. 5 i 1 1 For 6 persons. 84- Take some cold haddock, bone and flake it. Mix with mashecl potatoes, egg, seasoning, and an onion cut fine, and fried in palmine. Shape into small fritters, roll in egg and white bread crumbs, and fry a light colour ; serve with potatoes, potato salad, or vegetables and potatoes. 192. STEAK AND KIDNEY PUDDING WITH POTATOES. d, 11 oz. Beef Scraps . . . . . .2 1 lb. Ox Kidney . . . . . .3 I-lb. (8 large tablespoonfuls) Flour . . 1 .V 8 oz. Margarine . . . . . .3 2 lbs. Potatoes ...... x Pinch of Baking Powder. Pinch of Salt and Pepper. 1 pint (2 glasses) Water. For 6 persons. ioj- Mix flour, margarine, baking powder and salt with sufficient water to form a stiff dough ; roll out and line a well-greased basin with the crust (leaving enough to cover basin when filled). Cut up into small pieces the meat and kidney and the potatoes (uncooked) into thin slices, placing in alternate layers, with a little salt and pepper, until the basin is quite full; pour in enough water to cover, place the remaining crust on the top, cover with a scalded, well-floured cloth, and boil for three hours. Can also be baked in the oven ; no cloth is then used. 193- KIDNEY RAGOUT. d. 11 oz. Calves’ Kidneys .... . 8 11 oz. Carrots ..... 1 2 oz. Margarine ..... 3 • f ii oz. (2 level tablespoonfuls) Flour Salt and Paprika ..... For 6 persons. 10 Place the kidneys in vinegar water for 1 hour, then clean carefully. Only the cortical substance (the outer tissue) is used. Rinse well and put on a sieve to drain ; then cut into dice. Wash the carrots and cut them into dice. Brown the margarine and put into it the kidneys and carrots, which must be well browned before the flour, salt paprika and a little browning are added. Stir this round and’ add boiling water till the kidneys, etc., are almost covered. Boil for 1 hour. Serve with a border of mashed potatoes.WHAT TO EAT AND WHY 86 Pigs’ kidneys, which are cheaper, may be used instead of calves’, or instead of kidneys 8 oz. of boneless beef may be used. 194. FRIED PIG'S LIVER. 1 lb. Pig’s Liver ..... 2 oz. Margarine ..... 1 oz. (1 heaped tablespoonful) Flour 1 pint (2 glasses) Skimmed Milk Parsley ..... Salt .... ) J d. 4 f * i A x A For 6 persons. 6 A Place the liver in vinegar water for 1 hour, rinse, clean carefully, dry and laixl with parsley. Fry as the preceding. Serve in thin slices, garnished with browned potatoes. 195. MOCK HARE. 18 oz. Ox Heart .... 3 oz. (6 tablespoonfuls) Bread Crumbs 2 Eggs . . . . 1 teaspoonful Salt .... A oz. Bacon ..... 2 oz. Margarine. .... 1A pint (3 glasses) Skimmed Milk 2 oz. (2 heaped tablespoonfuls) Flour . f oz. Jelly s. d. 1 6 o oj o 2 j o i£ o o| o 2j o 0} o oj- For 6 persons. 2 1 Clean and wash the heart well and put it once through the mincing machine ; then mix with eggs, bread crumbs and salt. When well mixed, shape it like the back of a hare, roll it in some of the bread crumbs that have been kept over, lard it with the bacon, cut into fine strips. Brown the margarine and lay the hare carefully in it, brown it well on both sides, then pour a little boiling water into the pan, and afterwards the boiling milk, a little at a time. Stir the flour in water and boil this thickening with the hare for the last 10 minutes. Flavour with jelly, salt and a little browning. Serve with browned potatoes. 196. PIGS' TONGUES IN CAPER SAUCE. d. ig oz. Pigs’ Tongues (2) . . . . .6 2 oz. Margarine ...... | 3 oz. (3 heaped tablespoonfuls) Flour . . A Salt, Capers, Annatto . .... \ For 6 persons. 7i Wash the tongues and put them on the lire in boiling salt water. When they are soft, take the tongues out of the broth, remove the white skin and cut the tongues into thin slices. Serve them on a dish with the warm caper sauce over them and croutons round. The sauce is made like a light sauce, with the margarine, flour and broth from the tongues. Instead of the usual yolk of egg, add annatto (butter colouring). Boiled potatoes are served with this. (The tongue may be served in Brown Piquant Sauce (No. 215).)COOKERY RECIPES 87 197. MOCK TURTLE. s. d. s. cl. Calf’s Head . . • • 3 0 3 0 Meat Balls. 8 oz. Forcemeat. 8 oz. Boiled Potatoes . . ° °V § oz. Onion . . . . . ° °i o Fish Balls (mock) 1 lb. Boiled Potatoes 4 Eggs § oz. Onion .... Salt, Nutmeg 3 oz. Clarified Dripping . o o o °f 4 °i 1 o 6 Puff-Paste Squares. 8 oz. (8 heaped tablespoonfuls) Flour o 1 8 oz. Margarine . . . • 0 3 f pint glass) Water. 1 tablespoonful Vinegar . . .00^ o 4! Sauce. 3 oz. Margarine . . . . o if 7 oz. (7 heaped tablespoonfuls) Flour o of al- quarts Broth (of the calf’s head), f pint (f glass) Wine . . . o i -J- 32 grains Paprika, Salt . . o of o 3:c Total, for 20 persons . 4 3 Clean the calf’s head, removing the bone of the nose, the eyes and everything unappetising. Rinse in several changes of cold water, and let it remain in cold water for a couple of hours before putting it on to boil in boiling salt water. Skim the broth. When the head is soft enough for the meat to come away from the bone, take it out. Remove the meat in as large pieces as possible and place it in a flat dish to cool. When cold, cut it into square pieces. Make the forcemeat of small bits of the head and mix with mashed potatoes and onions and put into boiling salt water in small balls. Make the little mock fish balls in the same way as Potato Fritters, II. (No. 84). Make the sauce like a Brown Piquant Sauce (No. 215) and put into it the calf’s head, meat balls and fish balls, to warm, but »of to boil. Serve the mock turtle with squares made of 8 oz. of flour, kneaded with water and vinegar into an elastic dough, which must not stick to the board or hands, and then covered with 8 oz. of margarine. Roll out the dough as described in Vienna Twists (No. 255), cut it into squares and bake in a very hot oven.88 WHAT TO EAT AND WHY PIG'S HEAD. s. dm s. di 8 lbs. 4 oz. Bought . . .20 7 lbs. 8 oz. Cleaned. 2 lbs. 2 oz. Bone. 5 lbs. ao oz. net. 2 o (Pig’s head is to be cleaned as calf’s head and boiled in the ordinary- way.) Many dishes may be made with this, the following for example :— 198.* PORK CUTLETS. 18 oz. Pork (from the fat chops). 5. d. 3 oz. (3 heaped tablespoonfuls) Flour ) t Pepper, Salt ) 0 °* 3b oz. (7 tablespoonfuls) Bread Crumbs . . . . , o o| 2 oz. Clarified Dripping . . . o of o i-J Cut the meat into thin slices and beat it slightly, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and dip into flour thickening and bread crumbs. Fry in verjr hot clarified dripping until it is evenly brown on both sides. Serve with brown sauce and potatoes. 199. LEAN MEAT—SAUSAGES. s. d. s. 1 lb. Meat from the Head. 7 oz. Boiled Potatoes 2 oz. Onion ..... b teaspoonful Pepper . . . 1 1 tablespoonful Salt . . . ) I pint (1 glass) Broth from Pig’s Head o o o ob oi °i d. o 1 Put the meat and potatoes twice through the mincing machine, then mix with the cut-up onion, salt and pepper, and knead for a quarter of an hour. Add the broth by degrees during the kneading. Fill sausage skins with the mixture. The sausages may be browned in clarified dripping or margarine and steamed soft with broth and eaten with brown sauce and potatoes, or they may be salted slightly, boiled and eaten with vegetables. 200.* BRAWN. 3 lbs. 8 oz. Pig’s Head (net) s. d. 1 teaspoonful Pepper • l 2 Bay Leaves O O 1 tablespoonful Salt . 1 1 tablespoonful Vinegar . b pint Broth (from Pig’s Head). 0 oj- O oj Total 3.}COOKERY RECIPES 89 For 6 persons. H Put the rest of the pig’s head with the bone to boil in boiling water. When it is soft enough for the meat to come away from the bone ; take it out, remove the meat and put it in a bowl in layers with salt and pepper. Boil the broth with vinegar and bay leaf, strain and pour over the brawn, which must stand till the next day. When it is to be served, turn it out, cut into thin slices and eat with stewed potatoes and beetroot. H. SAUCES. Sauces are either too rich, too sweet, or too hot—that is, if eaten alone. But this is not the case ; they serve as an addition to dishes either to improve the flavour or partly to supply the fat which is wanting in potatoes and bread. But as my bills of fare are other- wise so inexpensive, there is no need to economise too much on sauces. Their main use is to make people eat more bread and potatoes. 201.* PARSLEY SAUCE. I. 2 oz. Margarine .... ij oz. (5 large teaspoonfuls) Flour . 1 pint (2 glasses) Skimmed Milk 1 tablespoonful Parsley and Salt d. 3 • • i i . 1J- .1 8 For 6 persons. 2å Cook the flour with ij oz. margarine and thin with milk. Boil, add salt and parsley, and, before pouring the sauce over the dish, add the rest of the margarine. 202. PARSLEY SAUCE. II. cl. i oz. Margarine . . . . . ) 1 oz. (1 tablespoonful) Flour . . . • j - 1 tablespoonful Parsley ..... f 1 pint (2 glasses) Herb Stock. 4 For 6 persons. £- Cook the flour with margarine, thin with the vegetable stock or water, and add salt and finely-chopped parsley. 203. CAPER SAUCE. i oz. Margarine . . . . . \ ij oz. (ij large tablespoonfuls) Flour . ' I - 1 Yolk . . . . . _ ' ; i 1 teaspoonful Sugar ... \ 2 Salt . . . . I i 1 teaspoonful Capers and Vinegar . . j 1 pint (2 glasses) Water.go WHAT TO EAT AND WHY 1 Dissolve 2 oz. citric acid in J- pint boiling water, and keep in a bottle. Cook the flour with margarine and thin with vegetable stock or water. Then add the beaten yolk of an egg, with capers, sugar and salt, but do not let the sauce boil after putting in the yolk. 204. BUTTER SAUCE. d. 3i oz. Margarine ..... J pint (4 glass) Cream .... • 3 Water. For 6 persons. 4å Have the saucepan very hot before putting in the margarine ; brown this, add the cream, and, as soon as it comes to the boil, pour into a sauce-boat. Rinse the saucepan with some boiling water and add to the sauce. 205. MOCK MAYONNAISE SAUCE. i oz. Margarine . . . . . . \ 1 oz. (1 large tablespoonful) Flour . . . ^ oz. (1 dessertspoonful) Sugar . . . ) 1 Yolk ........ 1 tablespoonful Vinegar . . . . . ) i tablespoonful Wine ..... White Pepper . . . . . . ) 1 pint (2 glasses) Vegetable Stock. d. \ k For 6 persons. ij Mix the flour with some margarine and thin with light vegetable stock or water until it forms a smooth cream. Then add the yolk, vinegar, salt, white pepper, and wine to taste. 206. LEMON SAUCE. d. 11 oz. Margarine . . . . . • } 3 2 oz. (2 tablespoonfuls) Flour . . • ) 4 1 Yolk h J oz. (x teaspoonful) Sugar . . • ) 1 tablespoonful Citric Acid Solution 1 . • J 2 drops Lemon Juice . . . . • ) Salt. 1 pint (2 glasses) Water. For 6 persons. Cook the flour with margarine and thin with water, then add the beaten volk, citric acid, lemon juice, salt and sugar. The'citric acid can be replaced'by lemon juice, but it will be more expensive.9T COOKERY RECIPES 207.* TOMATO SAUCE. I. <1. i oz. Margarine . . • • • • ! I ij. oz. (ij- large tablespooirfuls) Flour . . ) zi oz. (5 tablespoonfuls) Tomato Purée . • 1 1 teaspoonful Sugar. Salt. 1 pint (2 glasses) Water. For 6 persons. i» Cook the flour with the margarine, thin with vegetable broth or water, and add the tomato purée, salt and sugar. 208.* TOMATO SAUCE. II. cl. 2-^ oz. Margarine ...... x 2 "oz. (2 heaped tablespoonfuls) Flour . . J- 1J pint Potato Soup. 7 oz. Tomato Purée . . . . .1 2 tablespoonfuls Wine . .... \ Proceed as in No. 207. 209.* TOMATO SAUCE. III. cl. 1 oz. Margarine ..... • ) 1 ij oz. (ij large tablespooirfuls) Flour • ) 2 1 pint (2 glasses) Skimmed Milk . ii 1 oz. (2 tablespoonfuls) Tomato Purée • 1 For 6 persons. 22 Cook the flour and the margarine and thin with as much milk as will make a thick sauce, add the tomato pui'ée, and sugar if desired. 210.* ONION SAUCE. d. 1 oz. Margarine . . . . . . ) ■ 1 Jr oz. (1J- large tablespoonfuls) Flour . . ( 2 x oz. Onion . . . . . . 1 1 pint (2 glasses) Skimmed Milk . . 11 1 teaspoonful Sugar and Salt. For 6 persons. 2J Melt the margarine in a saucepan, put in the chopped onions and let them boil a little. Then add the flour and, while still boiling, pour in the milk until the sauce is a good thickness. Then add saTt and sugar. Butter, if handy, can be added. For those people who have difficulty in digesting onions it is best to parboil them first. In this case, cut the onions in half, pour boiling water over them, and if necessary, add some carbonate of soda, let them stand for 5 minutes’ strain and use the onions as above.92 WHAT TO EAT AND WHY 211. BROWNED POT HERBS FOR SAUCES. Various roots can be used for this and mixed with potatoes. Warm a saucepan, melt and brown some palmine in which the vegetables when cut into small pieces are browned. Then, when the vegetables are of a nice colour, add water and salt. Simmer until the roots are quite soft and then strain. Such stock can be used although not necessary for the following brown sauces ; the vegetables themselves are used up in fritters. 212.* BROWN ONION SAUCE. d. 2 oz. Margarine ...... * 2 oz. Onions . . . . . . . < ij oz. (U large tablespoonfuls) Flour . . j i i pint (2 glasses) Vegetable Stock or Water. Salt and Pepper to taste. For 6 persons. i Brown some margarine in a very hot pan or in a saucepan which can stand great heat; cut the onions in slices and brown them a little in the margarine. Then add the flour, and, as soon as it is a nice brown colour, pour in the whole of the vegetable stock until the sauce is smooth ; then salt and pepper. Some people like sugar with it. 213.* BROWN ONION SAUCE WITH TOMATOES. I. d. i 4 I For 6 persons. ii Fry the onions in hot palmine, then add the margarine and flour, and when the latter is of a nice colour, add the stock or water. As soon as the sauce has boiled put in salt, tomato purée arid pepper. i oz. Palmine ...... i oz. Margarine . . . . . . / i oz. Onion . . . . . . . ) ij oz. (2 tablespoonfuls) Flour . . . / 1 pint (2 glasses) Vegetable Stock or Water . I 1 oz. (2 tablespoonfuls) Tomato Purée Pepper and Salt ...... 214.* BROWN ONION SAUCE WITH TOMATOES. d. 1 oz. Margarine .... i-L oz. (i-|- large tablespoonfuls) Flour i oz. Onion ..... i pint (2 glasses) Vegetable Stock oz. (5 tablespoonfuls) Tomato Purée For 6 persons. II. This sauce is prepared like No. 2x3.93 COOKERY RECIPES For 6 persons. 215.* BROWN SAUCE PIQUANTE. i oz. Margarine . . ■ • • • j J 1^ oz. (1^ large tablespoonfuls) Flour . •) " 1 pint (2 glasses) Vegetable Stock or Water . i 1 teaspoonful Sherry (or Claret) . • • j £ oz. (1 teaspoonful) Sugar . . . • . 2 1 teaspoonful Maggi . . • • • ) Salt, Paprika and Pepper to taste. For 6 persons. This is prepared the same as the previous Brown Sauce. When it is ready, season with salt, paprika, pepper, wine and sugar. 216.* CUCUMBER SAUCE. 2 oz. Margarine ..... 2 oz. (2 heaped tablespoonfuls) Flour x| pint (3 glasses) Potato Soup. 2 oz. Tomato Purée .... 2 oz. Pickled Cucumbers 2 tablespoonfuls Wine .... Salt, Pepper ...... :S i 12 3 i Put the margarine into a very hot saucepan and brown it well ; brown the hour and pepper with it for a few minutes, then thin by degrees with the boiling soup, and the sauce must boil for at least 10 minutes. Then flavour with tomato purée, preserved cucumber, wine, salt and browning. 217.* MUSTARD SAUCE. i oz. Margarine ..... ij oz. (5 teaspoonfuls) Flour . 1 pint (2 glasses) Skimmed Milk 1 ieaspoonful Mustard .... i oz. Margarine ..... ) J ) 1 For 6 persons. 2i Fry the flour with the margarine and thin with milk. Then add salt, the mustard mixed with some water, and, just before serving, put in a piece of margarine. The sauce must not boil after the mustard is added. 218.* HORSERADISH SAUCE. 2 oz. (2 large tablespoonfuls) Flour . 2 oz. Margarine ..... oz. Horseradish .... i£ pints (3 glasses) Skimmed Milk . 1 teaspoonful Sugar. Salt. 494 WHAT TO EAT AND WHY Cook the flour with the margarine and add enough milk to make a smooth sauce, then add grated horseradish, salt and sugar. This sauce is suitable for spinach, dumplings, or spinach ring, etc. Do not boil the sauce after the horseradish is added. 219.* CURRY SAUCE. 11 oz. Margarine ...... ^ 2 oz. (2 large tablespoon f ids) Flour ...}• . x teaspoonful Curry Salt. 1 pint Water. For 6 persons. 1 Cook the flour in the hot margarine and moisten with thin vegetable stock or water, then add the curry, mixed with water, salt, and, if desired, a little sugar. 220.* CUSTARD SAUCE. d. 1 pint (2 glasses) Skimmed Milk . . if 2 Yolks . . . . . . 1” i| oz. (5 teaspoonfuls) Sugar . ... \ i pod Vanilla . . . . . . / t I oz. (2 teaspoonfuls) Potato Flour . . , j * , . For 6 persons. 3 Boil the Smilk and vanilla together, .then mix well the yolks, sugar and potato flour with part of the boiling milk, then throw this in the saucepan, and, as soon as it comes to the boil, take from the fire and pour out on a dish or in a mould to keep it from curdling. Stir until it has cooled. 221.* RHUBARB SAUCE. d. i{- lb. Fresh Rhubarb . . . . .2 . 3! oz. (31 tablespoonfuls) Sugar . b \“oz. (2 teaspoonfuls) Sago Flour J For 6 persons. 2f Wash the rhubarb and remove the tops and bottoms, cut the stalks ‘in pieces, stew them in water and strain. Boil the liquor, add the . sugar, and finally thicken with the sago flour mixed in water. 222.* FRUIT SAUCE. d. b pint (1 glass) Fruit Syrup JI oz. (3 teaspoonfuls) Potato Flour . . . . 1 pint (2 glasses) Water. For 6 persons. 2f Take some Red Currant Syrup (No. 223) or any other which may be preferred (No. 224), mix it with the water and bring to the boil. Add the potato flour mixed with water, bring to the boil, arid the sauce is ready. Add sugar to taste..95 COOKERY RECIPES 223.* RED CURRANT SYRUP AND RHUBARB. s. d. 32 lbs. Red Currants . . . • 5 11 12 lbs. Rhubarb . . . . .16 gi lbs. Sugar . . . . . .17 9 o Boil the red currants in a little water and strain through a sieve. Boil again the berries in fresh water and strain. Use this second liquor to boil the rhubarb, putting at first only half the rhubarb to avoid having too much liquid, and then the other half. When the rhubarb is done, mix the whole of the liquid, add about 1 lb. sugar to each quart of liquor, and finish boiling. Have some jars ready warmed in the oven, and fill them with the boiling hot syrup, then cork. 224.* ELDERBERRY AND RHUBARB SYRUP is prepared the same, but requires less sugar. 225. HOW TO MAKE JAM. Jam made of fallen fruit is very inexpensive and most useful for dishes as well as for eating with bread. Any kind of fruit can be used in this way, and berries serve the same purpose, provided only part of the syrup is used. Black currants can be mixed with pumpkin. Apples can be used alone or with black currants or even with plums. Boil the fruit with a little water and cook until you have a thick marmalade, then either strain or pass it through a coarse sieve. Add to each 1 lb. of pulp from 3 J oz.to 7 oz. sugar, and simmer from 3 to 6 hours, according to the quantity. When the jam is quite compact and free from any liquid syrup, then it is ready. For apple jam, add, 1 hour before taking from the fire, 2 oz. grape sugar ; this will make it firmer ; but then use only from 3 to 4 oz. sugar to each 1 lb. of pulp. Fill the jars, let them stand uncovered in a cool place until cold. In order to keep the jam always fresh, it is a good precaution to add 7I grains of salicylic acid for every 2 lbs. of jam before filling the jars. Wait until a crust is formed on the top before covering. 226.* APRICOT JAM. „ . s. d. 1 lb. Dried Apricots . . . . .08 3 lbs. Sugar 6 Makes 6 lbs. jam. 1 2 Soak the apricots in 1 quart water for 48 hours, then put all together in a stewpan, and, when it boils, cook slowly for 1 hour. Put into jars and cover over in the usual way. " J 227* MARMALADE. 12 Seville Oranges ..... g' 4 Lemons96 WIiAT TO EAT AND WHY Weigh the fruit after washing it, and to every i lb. allow 3 pints water. Cut into quarters and remove the pips and tie them up in a piece of muslin ; pass the fruit through a fine mincer and put it to soak for 24 hours with the water and pips. Boil it for £ hour, then leave it again for 24 hours. Measure it, and to every pint'allow i£ lbs. sugar. Remove the pips and boil again k hour, then put it in jar's and cover over. Cost, i§<2. per lb. 228.* TOMATO PURÉE. 12 lbs. Tomatoes .... 5. . 2 d. 0 9 oz. Salt ..... . 0 oi 77 grains (1 teaspoonful) Salicylic Acid . 0 o\ 2 i Wipe ripe tomatoes, cut them in halves, and lay them side by side in a preserving pan with salt. As soon as they are boiled, rub through a coarse sieve and boil up once more. When done, take from the fire, put in a teaspoonful of salicylic acid, fill warm bottles with large necks, and cover. This can be used for tomato soups or sauce. I. LUNCHES OR SUPPERS. 229.** WARM POTATO SALAD. I. d. ii lbs. Cold Potatoes 2 oz. Margarine oz. (1 tablespoonful) Sugar oz. Onion . 2 tablespoonfuls Vinegar. Pepper and Salt \ pint (i glass) Water. / 1 f I 5 i j^or 6 persons. Choose potatoes not too mealy and boil them the day before. Slice them, cut the onion in thin slices, boil it in water; add margarine, and, when it is melted, vinegar, pepper and salt, and stir the potatoes carefully in this until they are warmed through. The onions can be replaced by mustard. 230.** WARM POTATO SALAD. II. d. ii lbs. Cold Potatoes . . • • 1 f "oz. Margarine . . • • • • . i f oz. Onion . • • • • • 1 1 teaspoonful Pepper and Salt . . • ) ' 2 tablespoonfuls Vinegar. . • • • * £ pint (1 glass) Water. For 6 persons. This salad is prepared like the previous one, but with less margarine97 COOKERY RECIPES 231.** WARM POTATO SALAD. 1 .V lbs. Cold Potatoes . 2 ”oz. Margarine . i pint (A glass) Cream . . | pint (| glass) Skimmed Milk 30 grains Mustard . 15 grains Pepper and Salt 1 i tablespoonfuls Vinegar £"pint (A glass) Water. For 6 persons. III. d. 1 3 3 Jr i i I 6 This is prepared the same as the above. 232.** WARM POTATO SALAD. IV. d. 1 £ lbs. Cold Potatoes . . . • 1 2 oz. Margarine ...... 4* A oz. Onion . . • • • • • < 1 ' I teaspoonful Sugar . . . • • ) 1 teaspoonful Salt. For 6 persons. 2 Slice some cold potatoes, stew the onion, cut into halves, in the margarine, and warm up the potatoes in this, adding salt and vinegar. 233.** COLD POTATO SALAD. i£ lbs. Potatoes ..... J oz. Onion ...... 3 tablespoonfuls Salad Oil £ teaspoonful Pepper and Salt A oz. Parsley ..... tablespoonfuls Vinegar 3 tablespoonfuls Vegetable Stock or Water. I. d. For 6 persons. 4 Mix the oil well with the stock, onions, chopped fine, vinegar and seasoning, and add the sliced potatoes with the minced parsley. It is better to prepare the salad a little beforehand. 234.** COLD POTATO SALAD. 11 lbs. Potatoes ..... i-J oz. Margarine ..... 1 Yolk 2 teaspoonfuls Capers with Vinegar . 1 teaspoonful Sugar .... 2 tablespoonfuls Vinegar.... $ teaspoonful Salt ..... I pint (£ glass) Water. IL d. i A For 6 persons. 3 W.K. HWHAT TO EAT AND WHY 98 After mixing the margarine with half a glass of boiling water, add the well-beaten yolks capers, sugar, salt, vinegar and lastly the sliced vegetable dSh^ ^ SaIad with brcacl and butter< or with some fried 235.** MASHED POTATOES. 2 lbs. Potatoes .... f 3 oz. Margarine . . . ’ ’ . i{ For 6 persons. 2£ Peel and boil the potatoes and mash them as usual (No. 60). Then put the potatoes on the fire with a little of the water in which they were cooked, add the margarine, a little salt, and stir well. 236.** MASHED POTATOES AND CARROTS. „ „ A. 1 lb. Potatoes ...... 4 lb. Carrots ....... i 2 oz. Margarine ... f Salt. ' ' i For 6 persons. i£ Boil together peeled potatoes and carrots, putting the carrots in the water first, as they take longer to cook. When thejr are done, mash together, add some of the liquor and warm up again on the fire, with margarine and salt, stirring well. 237.** VEGETABLE SALAD. d. 3^ 7 oz. Green Peas 8 oz. Green Cabbage 1 •> 4 oz. Carrots .... i h oz. Margarine ) j. £ oz. (3 large teaspoonfuls) Flour 1 4 1 Yolk * § tablespoonful Vinegar . } tablespoonful Wine Water. * For 6 persons. 5i Any kind of vegetables can be used for salad. Cook the flour in* margarine and moisten, either with vegetable stock or wrater, until you have a smooth sauce. Then beat the yolk well, with salt, add a little of the warm sauce, and stir well before putting the yolk in the whole of the sauce so as to ensure its mixing thoroughly throughout. Then season with vinegar, sugar, salt, wine, a pinch of wdiite pepper and yellow mustard. Cut the boiled vegetables small, put them in a salad bowl, and pour over the sauce ; put on the top various coloured vegetables, cut out star shape, watercress and parsley.COOKERY RECIPES 90 238.** BEETROOT SALAD. 7 oz. Potatoes ..... 4 oz. Beetroot ..... 4 oz. CaiTots ...... 2 oz. Celery Root ..... 2 oz. Apples ...... oz. Palmine ..... oz. (if large tablespoonfuls) Flour 1 Yolk .' 1 small teaspoonful Mustard . J small teaspoonful Black Pepper l oz. (2 teaspoonfuls) Sugar I pint (£ glass) Beetroot Vinegar 1 . I tablespoonful Ordinary Vinegar I pint Vegetable Stock or Water. For 6 persons. cl. i i i i it i i j 4 Cut the boiled beetroot and other vegetables in thin slices about 1 inch long. Then cook the flour in the palmine and moisten with stock or water, so as to have a thick sauce, then add the yolk, and, when the sauce is cooled, put in the vinegar and seasoning. Then stir the vegetables well in the sauce. This imitation of an Italian salad is very good with bread and butter. Minced meat or herrings can be added to it, but, in my opinion, this is unnecessary, and I think the herrings spoil the taste. 239. MACARONI SALAD. 2h oz. Macaroni ..... 1 oz. Palmine ..... x oz. (1 large tablespoonful) Flour . 1 Yolk -J- teaspoonfui Mustard .... Pepper to taste ..... 2 teaspoon fuls Vinegar .... \ pint (| glass) Water. d. \ 1 For 6 persons. 21 Break the macaroni small, boil it in salt water, strain and pour cold water over it to keep the macaroni from sticking together. Make a smooth sauce, beat in the yolk of an egg and allow to cool ; then add the seasoning and vinegar and put in the macaroni. Serve in a glass bowl with green stuff. Caper vinegar (2 teaspoonfuls) instead of ordinary vinegar is an improvement. 1 If you have no beetroot vinegar use only the ordinary, of which consider- ably less is required. But, of course, the quantity of vinegar is a matter of H 2WHAT TO EAT AND WHY I oo 240.** STEWED APPLES AND POTATOES. d. 2 ,V oz. Dried Apples . . . . j 1 pint (2 glasses) Water . £ oz. Onion . . . . . , ' 1 I oz. (1 dessertspoonful) Sugar . . . ) 6 oz. Potatoes (boiled) . . , 1 i£ oz. Palmine ...... | For 6 persons. 21- Fresh apples can be used for this as well as dried ones. If fresh apples are used, peel and core them and cut small. Then brown some palmine in a frying pan, fry the onions in it, add the apples with sugar, put the sliced potatoes on the top, sprinkle with salt, and cover. Then stew very slowly until the apples are soft. It is a good thing to add a little water to prevent the dish from burning. If dried apples are used they must be soaked first, and the water in which they have soaked can be used to moisten. 241. LENTIL PATTIES. 8 oz. Lentils ...... 4 oz. Palmine . 2 oz. Onions ...... I teaspoonful Cloves . . . . i teaspoonful Pepper . . . . 1 oz. (2 teaspoonfuls) Salt 2 oz. (2 large tablespoonfuls) Flour . f pint (ii- glasses) Skimmed Milk 5 Eggs . “ d. ) J ih h 1 •> 5 For 6 persons. g| Soak the lentils the night before and bqil them in the same water without salt ; should the water be too hard, add a little carbonate of soda. When the lentils are cooked, leave them a short time to swell, and then strain and mash. Melt some palmine, cook the onions in it until they have lost all their strong smell. Add the lentils, seasoning, milk and flour, and bring to the boil, stirring all the while. Allow to cool a little, then put in the eggs, one after the other, stirring well; fill a greased mould and bake in a slow oven for 1 hour. This dish is known also under the name of Vegetarian Liver Patties. 242. LIVER PATTY. s. d. 12 oz. Pig’s Liver .... 0 4i 8 oz. Lard 0 4 8 oz. Boiled Potatoes. 0 oj 2 oz. Margarine. .... 0 of 2 oz. (2 heaped tablespoonfuls) Flour . a pint (ih glass) Skimmed Milk . 0 oj O 11 1 Egg . ..... 1 teaspoonful Salt .... 0 I 1 teaspoonful Pepper. 1 teaspoonful Allspice •1° * J oh 1 ofCOOKERY RECIPES •IOI 2 Clean the liver carefully and put it four or five times tin ought mincing machine together with the lard and potatoes. Fry the ma - garine and flour, and thin with boiling milk until the paste does not stick to the pan. When the paste is cooled, stir into it the minced liver, egg and spice. Stir thoroughly until it is stiff, then put into a buttered dish and boil in a bain-marie m the oven for i to i i hours. Do not turn it out until it is cold. 243. GOOSEBERRY PRESERVE. Cl. 16 oz. Gooseberries . • • • • 16 oz. Sugar ...•••• 2 x. oz. (i large teaspoonful) Potato Flour . . i & pint (i glass) Water. o 3. Boil the water with sugar and put in the prepared gooseberries, taking only ripe ones. Boil them well. Then thicken with potato or sago flour, and serve them as an addition to bread and butter. If the gooseberries are very sweet a smaller quantity of sugar is required. 244. RED CURRANT COMPOTE. Take i lb. of nice picked red currants and leave them for a whole day in 3J oz. sugar. Then put in a little water or syrup and eat with bread and butter. K. BREAD, CAKES, ETC. In Nos. 246 to 258 are given recipes for some of the cheapest and best kinds of bread and cakes, which form as nearly as possible a perfect food. The first four of these must be eaten with butter. Nos. 259 to 263 give, for the sake of comparison, some of the most commonly used of small cakes, but, as they are very rich and some of them very sweet, they should be eaten in small quantities and are not for daily use. 245. COARSE WHEATEN BREAD i lb. Crushed Wheat .... J pint (1 glass) Water. 90 grains Yeast ..... 150 grains Sugar ..... x teaspoonful Salt ..... Mix the yeast with the sugar. Bring the water to a temperature of about iio° to 120°. Mix the liquid yeast, water and salt with the meal and work the dough until it does not stick to the hands; then put it aside to rise in a warm place for 1 hour ; knead again for 5 minutes, set aside again for iito 2 hours ; then shape into loaves and put at once into a very hot oven. Bake for i-j- to ii hours. (Hindhede). (1. . i .vWI-IAT TO EAT AND WHY 102 We have used this bread extensively in the laboratory. We buy whole wheat and grind it by hand power in a large coffee-mill to a very coarse meal—so coarse that large pieces of the grain come through. The bread, therefore, requires careful mastication, which is probably conducive to the preservation of the teeth. 246. WHOLEMEAL BREAD. 2 lbs. Wholemeal Flour .... 12 oz. (12 large tablespoonfuls) Flour i oz. (2 large teaspoonfuls) Sugar i oz. (2 large teaspoonfuls) Salt § oz. Yeast ...... x quart (4 glasses) Water. d. 4 1* After mixing the yeast with sugar, pour the water and salt over it and stir in the wholemeal flour. When the whole of the liquid is absorbed, sprinkle some flour over the dough and let it rise. When it has sufficiently risen knead in enough flour to make a firm dough, shape it in two loaves or else in a long, flat tin, and put again to rise. As soon as this is done mark the loaves on the top with a knife and bake in an oven, not very hot, for x:| hours. Should the loaves be baked on a tray instead of in a tin, the dough must be stiffer. 247. WHITE BREAD. s. d. 4 lbs. Flour ..... 0 71 2 oz. Yeast ..... 0 1 2} pints (2i glasses) Skimmed Milk 0 4 1 tablespoonful salt. 1 1 0 I Mix tiie yeast with the flour and salt and add tepid milk. Knead thoroughly well with the hands until the dough does not stick to the board ; then set to rise. When this is done, divide into two loaves, set again to rise, cross-mark them with a knife, and bake in a good oven for 1 hour. 248. FINE BREAD. d. 2 lbs. Bolted Eye Flour . . . . • 3i f- lb. (12 large tablespoonfuls) Ordinary Flour . ij i£ oz, Yeast ....... 1 1 j pints (2£ glasses) Skimmed Milk . . .2 \ teaspoonful Salt. S Proceed as above.f°3 COOKERY RECIPES 249. ROLLS. 3 lbs. Flour . 2 oz. Yeast . 5 oz. Margarine 2 oz. (2 tablespoonfuls) Sugar . if pints (31 glasses) Skimmed Milk 4 oz. (f tablespoonful) Flour . d. 52 1 2 i H ni Mix the flour with the margarine, sugar, and the yeast stirred in milk. Knead well, and, when it has risen, shape in long rolls, then mark with slanting lines. Set aside to rise again and bake in a good oven for about f hour. The spoonful of flour is kept to roll out the dough in. 250. SMALL RUSKS. d. if lbs. Flour ...•••• 2i 3i oz. Margarine . . . • • Ti 2~oz. (2 tablespoonfuls) Sugar i § pint (if glasses) Skimmed Milk . . .1 f oz. (7 teaspoonfuls) Baking Powder . . f 51- Mix the baking powder, margarine, sugar and flour ; knead with cold milk until the dough does not stick to the hands. Then shape into small rolls and put these on a cold, greased tin, and bake at once in a moderate oven. Before the rolls are quite cold, cut them through with a sharp knife and put them back in the oven to get a nice golden colour. 251. LARGE RUSKS. if lbs. (20 large tablespoonfuls) Flour 31 oz. Margarine .... 2 2 oz. (2f tablespoonfuls) Sugar 1 oz. Y"east ..... 1 tablespoonful Salts of Hartshorn or 1 f teaspoonful Ammonia . . . ) § pint (if glasses) Skimmed Milk d. 21 i f 6f Mix the margarine with the flour, stir the yeast, and add it with the sugar and the salts of hartshorn to the flour. Stir in the cold milk, knead the dough stiffly, and let it stand over night. Then shape into large rolls, which are allowed to rise once more before baking them in a very hot oven. Before they are quite cold cut them with a sharp knife, and put back into a moderate oven to dry.WHAT TO EAT AND WHY I04 252. BISCUITS. il. S oz. (8 large tablespoonfuls) Flour . . .1 4 oz. (4 tablespoonluls) Potato Flour . . £ 4 oz. Margarine . . . . . . 1 i 1 pint glass) Skimmed Milk \ 2 oz. (2 tablespoonfuls) Sugar .... i teaspoonful Salts of Hartshorn or ) l teaspoonful Ammonia ) 4 Crumble the margarine in the Hour, add the hartshorn, sugar and milk, and knead thoroughly. Roll out thin, print some sort of design on the top with a marker, cut out with a glass, and bake in a moderate oven. 253. CHEAP GINGERBREAD NUTS. 5 lbs. Flour ..... 1 lb. Palmine ..... 1 lb. (16 tablespoonfuls) Sugar ■J- oz. (1 tablespoonful) Salt. % oz. (1 tablespoonful) Salts of Hartshorn ii pints (3 glasses) Water. s. d. o o 6 o 2 1 6\ Take palmine, which must be rather soft, and add it to the flour with the other ingredients. Knead well, shape as nuts, and bake in a moderate oven. 254. WHOLEMEAL BISCUITS. d. 1 lb. Wholemeal Flour . . . . .2 2 oz. Palmine ...... f i pint (1 glass) Skimmed Milk £ I oz. (2 teaspoonfuls) Sugar . . . . ) , x teaspoonful Salt . . . . . . j 4 o 3l J4 Melt the palmine and add it to the cold milk, sugar and salt. Then stir in the flour, knead and roll out—not too thin. Cut out with a glass, and bake a light colour in a hot oven. 255. CHEAP VIENNA BREAD. d. 1 lb. (16 lai'ge tablespoonfuls) Flour . . 2 4 oz. Margarine . . ■ • • • § pint (ii glasses) Skimmed Milk . . i| 2 oz. (2 tablespoonfuls) Sugar i 2 oz. A^east . . . • • • • 1 6105 COOKERY RECIPES Knead together Hour, 1 oz. margarine, sugar, and the yeast stirred with sugar and some milk. Beat it well until it becomes a soft, spongy dough. Then roll out; cut the remainder of the margarine into small pieces, lay them over half the dough and put the other half over it. Roll out again, fold over, and repeat three times. The last time, the dough must be rolled out as evenly and as smoothly as possible. Shape it into rolls and various forms, and set to rise. Then bake a light colour in a hot oven. When baked, wash over with water, and sugar to glaze. A finer kind of Vienna bread can be obtained by using a larger quantity of margarine. In that case £ hour must be allowed between each time the dough is rolled. Vienna bread can also be glazed before baking with an egg, and almonds and sugar spread on the top. Mix the flour with 1 oz. margarine, the milk, yeast and sugar. Knead well together so as to have a light dough, but be careful not to set to rise in a hot place. Then flour a pastry board and roll out the dough. Add the remainder of the margarine in small pieces on half the dough, fold over the other half, and roll; repeat thrice. The fourth time the dough must be rolled out 8 to 10 inches long, spread over it some stewed prunes or apple, or any kind of jam, and shape as a wreath and put on a tin to rise ; mark with a knife, sprinkle with sugar and almonds, and bake for | hour in a moderate oven. When rolling out the dough be careful to have the board and the rolling-pin well floured fhe dough can be prepared the night before, when 1 oz. of veast wili be sufficient to each 1 lb. of flour. 256. VIENNA TWIST. I. 1 lb. 4 oz. (20 large tablespoonfuls) Flour 6 oz. Margarine .... § pint (if glasses) Skimmed Milk 3 V oz. (31 tablespoonfuls) Sugar 2 oz. Yeast ..... 4 oz. Stewed Prunes 1 1 257. VIENNA TWIST. II. 1 k lbs. (24 large tablespoonfuls) Flour 6 oz. Margarine .... 3 oz. (3 tablespoonfuls) Sugar . 2 oz. Vreast .... 1 pint (2 glasses) Skimmed Milk 3J- oz. Sultanas d. 3 i iWHAT TO EAT AND WHY Io6 258. CHRISTMAS CAKE. lbs. (24 large tablespoonfuls) Flour 4 oz. Margarine 3 oz. (3 tablespoonfuls) Sugar . 1 i oz. Yeast .... 3l oz. (3§ tablespoonfuls) Sultanas oz. (2 teaspoonfuls) Flour 1 oz. Margarine 1 pint (2 glasses) Skimmed Milk d. 3 i il 8f Mix the margarine with the flour, the stirred yeast and sugar. Knead with lukewarm milk. Set to rise ; flour a pastry-board, roll out the dough, put the sultanas and the remainder of the margarine, and roll and shape in round, flat cakes. Set again to rise, glaze with sugar water, sprinkle sugar over it, and bake for about 1 hour in a steady oven. 259. QUICK CAKES (Klejner). 2 lbs. 5 oz. (37 large tablespoonfuls) Flour . 8 oz. Palmine ...... 11 oz. (11 tablespoonfuls) Sugar . 6 Eggs £ pint (£ glass) Cream .... i£ lbs. Palmine ..... 5. d. 0 4i 0 3 0 ii 0 6" 0 3 0 nX. 7 2 2 i£ Melt the palmine, and stir with it the eggs, sugar and cream, add the flour, and knead well ; roll out thin, cut out with a pastry-cutter into strips 3 inches long by 1 inch wide, cut a slit in the centre of the strip, pass one end through it; plunge into boiling palmine until they are a nice light brown and very crisp. 260. CURRANT CAKE. d. 12 oz. (12 large tablespoonfuls) Flour . . i£ 8 oz. (8 tablespoonfuls) Sugar . . . .1 8 oz. Margarine . . . . . .3 3 Eggs 3 3 oz. (3 tablespoonfuls) Currants . . .2 io£ Mix well the margarine and sugar, add the eggs, one after the other, then the flour. Spread the dough on a well-buttered tin, and sprinkle the washed and dried currants on it. Bake in a steady oven, and before it is cold cut in diamonds.107 COOKERY RECIPES 261. SPECIE DOLLARS. a. i lb. (16 large tablespoonfuls) Flour • • 23 10 oz. Margarine 2i 8 oz. (8 tablespoonfuls) Sugar . . • • 1 i Egg 6} Knead together margarine, flour, sugar and egg. Roll out the dough, cut out with a round cutter and lay them on a tin. These cakes should be neither sugared nor buttered. 262. JEWS’ CAKES. 12 oz. (12 large tablespoonfuls) Flour 7 oz. Margarine .... 4 oz. (4^ tablespoonfuls) Sugar 1 teaspoonful Salts of Hartshorn 1 Egg . • . 2 oz. (2 tablespoonfuls) Sugar . 2 oz. Almonds .... d. it 2% l i i 2 8 Knead together margarine, flour, sugar, salts of hartshorn and egg. Roll out, shape with a round cutter, glaze with an egg, and spread over finely-chopped almonds and sugar ; bake in a moderate oven. d. ■ 5 • 31 • ii • ni Melt the margarine and stir it until it becomes white, add sugar, flour, whites of eggs, which are not to be beaten. Then put quite thin pieces of dough on the tin and bake a light brown. 263. HOHLHIPPEN. 10 Eggs (Whites of) 10 oz. Margarine .... 10 oz. (10 tablespoonfuls) Sugar 10 oz. (10 large tablespoonfuls) Flour L. CHEAP DRINKS. 264. ORANGEADE. In winter, the orange season, people should not throw away the peel. Take out the inside white skin, cut the yellow skin in very small pieces, and put them in an ordinary bottle. Pour over as much pure spirits of wine as will cover the peel. Should the bottle not be filled at once, more peel and spirit can be added from time to time. Put the bottle away till the summer, then dissolve 1 lb. of sugar in 1 quart of boiling water, add h oz. of citric acid and a liqueur glass of spirit of orange. When it is cold, bottle it. When thirsty, pour a little of this solution into a tumbler and fill with cold water. As this drink contains spirit it may appear strange that an abstainer like myself should recommend it. But if one recollects that there isio8 WHAT TO EAT AND WHY less spirit in the concentrated solution than in beer, and that one only uses from one-tenth, or at the most one-fifth, part of this in proportion to the water, there is not much fear of alcohol poisoning. A glass of orangeade does not cost \d. 265. RHUBARB SYRUP. Boil 2 lbs. of rhubarb, cut in pieces, with 3 quarts of water, until perfectly done. Strain through a cloth, which can be placed in a funnel, filter, and boil again with the addition of 7 oz. sugar. Cold, with the addition of water, this drink is very refreshing. 266. STRAWBERRY SYRUP. Boil 2 lbs. of strawberries with 2 quarts of water ; filter and sweeten like rhubarb, according to taste. Drink with an addition of water. Any kind of fruit syrup can be used for the same purpose.PART III DIET IN URIC ACID DISORDERS. The most important disorders caused by uric acid are renal gravel and gout, besides various forms of rheumatism. Certain painful conditions of the nei-ves, such as persistent headache and neuralgia, are frequently attributed to the same cause. In these ailments it is often found that the urine becomes cloudy after standing some time, and that it leaves a red precipitate. This precipitate is uric acid. In such cases, therefore, the urine is said to be saturated with uric acid. If the acid is deposited in the renal cavity, the patient will suffer from gravel; if the deposit occurs in the tissues of the body, he will have gout, rheumatism, sciatica, etc. A certain amount of uric acid is always formed in the body, and we add to the quantity through the purins contained in our food. In England Dr. Alexander Haig has called special attention to the treat- ment of uric acid complaints. His treatment is a “ purin-free diet.” As the purin bodies are most abundant in meat and fish, and especially in such internal parts as liver, kidneys, sweet-breads, etc., these articles of food are forbidden above all, while other purin-free animal products, such as milk and eggs, are allowed. In the vegetable kingdom the pulses (peas, beans and lentils), which contain purins, are expressly forbidden. In my opinion Haig’s system does not rest upon a sufficiently scientific foundation. I think the capacity of the urine (and of the blood) for dissolving uric acid is of greater importance than its actual composition. Besides which, experiments have shown that although the internal parts (liver, etc.) mentioned above certainly contain more uric acid than ordinary meat, this excess is destroyed in the body, so that the urine after eating liver does not contain more uric acid than after eating meat. I cannot go further into the question here, but will merely give the main result of my investigations : namely, that we may divide foods into groups, according as they give a urine which is capable of holding large quantities of uric acid in solution (-f), or a urine that has a tendency to precipitate the acid ( —). Between these two extremes lies a group which has no very marked action in either of these directions (o). + Milk. Root Vegetables. Green Vegetables. Fruit. Sugar. o Fats. Meat Soup. Boiled Spinach, etc. Meat. Eggs. Bread (Meal). Brussels Sprouts. Pulses. Nuts. . It is the basic salts in the foods that dissolve uric acid, whereas the acids cause precipitation. Cooking extracts in the first place the basic salts, while the acid-forming substances remain. Meat soup, therefore does not have a precipitating effect, Boiled vegetables are less solventI TO WHAT TO EAT AND WHY than raw, since a part of their dissolving power goes into the water. For this reason, as much as possible of the water in which potatoes, spinach, etc., have been boiled, should be taken with them. In the vegetable kingdom it is the seed, grain or kernel that is — while the stalk, root and pulp are -J-. The precursors of flower and seed, the sprouts of the Brussels sprouts and the heads of asparagus are also —. In future any one will actually be able to compose a menu to counteract uric acid disorders. But in order to make this easier, I have marked a number of the dishes ** or *. ** means that the dish has a powerful solvent effect, * a less strong. Where there is no mark, the effect of the dish is rather to precipitate. A man who suffers from uric acid may therefore eat of the dishes marked ** to his heart’s content, while he onght not to eat too much of those marked *, and should preferably take with these some powerful solvent, such as potatoes. I here give a table of the more important dishes suitable for patients suffering from uric acid troubles. Recipe No. 17. Ground rice soup with stewed apples, ig. Cherry soup. 20. Rice soup. 21. Elderberry soup. 22. Apple soup. 23. Rhubarb soup. 27. Tomato soup. 31. Rhubarb fool. 32. Chestnut pudding. 34. Red blanc-mange with fresh fruit. 35. Red blanc-mange from syrup. 52. Asparagus soup. 83 84 85 86 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 Potato fritters. Potato balls. Potato dumplings. White cabbage fritters. Fritters of various roots. Tomato fritters. Spinach dumplings. I Potato ring. Recipe 36. 37- 38. 39- 40. 41. 42. 44. 45- 46. 47- 48. 49- 5°- 51- 53- 54- 55 No. ** Prune gruel. Stewed prunes. Apple gruel. Apple gruel II. Fresh stewed apples. Dried stewed apples. Compote. Green cabbage soup. Chervil soup. Herb soup. Browned white cabbage soup. Cauliflower soup. Green pea soup. Spinach soup. Potato and onion soup. Potato soup with curry. Carrot soup. 58. Potatoes with butter and salt. 59. Potatoes with parsley sauce. 60. Mashed potatoes. 61. Potatoes with fried onions. 62. Fried potatoes. 63. Potatoes sautée. 64. Carrots sautée. 65. Beetroot sautée. 66. Celery sautée. 67. Tomatoes sautée. 68. Stewed green peas. 69• ] Stewed carrots. 70. jI I T DIET IN URIC ACID DISORDERS Recipe No. 144. Prune and rice cream. 145. Rice ring with whipped cream and stewed prunes. 14G. Prune puffed pie. 147. Plum tart. 148. Damson soufflée. 149. Dessert plums. I5°- \ Apple cake. 151. ) 173. Potato chops with meat. 174. Potato fritters with meat. 177. Ham fritters. 179. Tobbington. 180. Timbale with cauliflower. 182. Miroton. 184. Bacon-dice in onion sarrce and potatoes. 185. Green cabbage and bacon. 186. Fried bacon in bread crumbs. 189. Cod croquettes. 191. Fish fritters. 198. Pig’s head. 200. Brawn. 2or to 228. Sauces. Recipe No. 71. Stewed potatoes. 72. Stewed potatoes and green peas. 73. Vegetable fricassee. 74. Stewed green cabbage. 75. Stewed spinach. 76. Stewed white cabbage. 79. Mock Irish stew. 80. Browned white cabbage. 81. Browned cabbage or turnips. too. Potato pie. to 1. Potato and tomato pie. 103. Potato and white cab- bage pie. to- ) Vegetable pudding. 229. 230. 231. 232. 233' Potato salad. > 234-J I Mashed potatoes. 237. Vegetable salad. 238. Beetroot salad. 240. Stewed apples potatoes. and MENUS FOR A WEEK are given as examples : Sunday.—-Celery Sautée (66) with Potatoes and Lemon Sauce (206), Prune Gruel (36). Monday.—Cauliflower Soup (49), Fried Bacon in Bread Crumbs (186) with Potatoes and Brown Onion Sauce (212). Tuesday.—Ground Rice Soup with Stewed Apples (17), Potato Fritters II. (84) with stewed Green Peas (68). Wednesday.—Rhubarb Soup (23), Tobbington (179). Thursday.—Potato Ring I. (98) with Stewed Carrots (69), Plum Tart (147). Friday.—Potato Soup with Curry (54), Ham Fritters (177) with Potatoes and Onion Sauce (210). Saturday.—Cherry Soup (19), Potato Pie (100). In the morning, 11 oz. of bread may be eaten with butter and a cup of weak tea. For lunch, hot potatoes and carrots with butter, followed by fruit. With this potato-water and a glass of milk should be taken. Example : 10 oz. potatoes, 3 oz. carrots, 6 oz. bananas, 4 pint potato-water, b pint milk. For supper, if required, a slice of bread and butter, as in the morning, and an apple.I 12 WHAT TO EAT AND WI1Y The lunch given above is very effective and ought, therefore, to be the principal meal of the day. For dinner, if absolutely insisted on, an ordinary meat or fish dish may be taken, but the quantity must be very small." Example : b pint meat soup, 5 oz. vegetables (carrots, leeks, etc.), 2 oz. chicken, fo oz. potatoes. The above quantities are only given as examples of what has actually been eaten. Every one must find out his own requirements, but must be careful not to eat more than is demanded by his appetite. As a single example of the effect of the cure, the following letter may be quoted :— “ Dear Dr. EIindhede,— " According to Dr. Bjerregaard, mine is the real old-fashioned gout. My joints were stiff, enlarged and deformed. The disease came on gradually and slowly some fourteen years ago, first one joint being attacked, and then another. It spread, finally, over the whole body. Last winter I became so bad that I could do no work, and my sufferings were at times almost intolerable. I took sodium salicylate, but all to no purpose. “ Last April I tried a potato diet—potatoes, butter, milk and apples, as well as potato-water. After a month I felt better ; and now, after four months, I am nearly able to resume work. Last April, when I began with this diet, the fingers of my left hand were so cramped and bent that I could not hold anything. Now they, are so lithe and supple that one might think I had been playing the violin all my life. “ I am thirty-one years of age. “ I must admit that some of the credit for my present condition is due to the massage and baths, but I am sure that the most potent factor in my recovery has been the potato diet; and since I have been taking it I have become sensible of a state of health which I have not enjoyed for many years. My weight has also increased by about six or seven pounds. “ Yours faithfully, “ (Signed) Peder Leegaard.” This discovery of the capacity of various foods for dissolving uric acid is still fairly new, but I could already quote several examples of an almost miraculous effect on renal gravel and gout. Potatoes especially (and potato-water) seem to have an excellent effect. As my experi- ments have now proved that it is possible to live for months on potatoes and butter alone without any injurious effects, no one need hesitate to make them an important part of his diet. Fruit may also be strongly recommended ; the best results of all have been obtained from a diet consisting exclusively of potatoes with butter and bananas. But in pronounced cases of long standing the cure must be continued for years. It must be observed that where rheumatism is not due to uric acid the cure cannot be expected to operate ; but it is fortunate that it can scarcely do any harm. ,, The products that act as solvents of uric acid are among the most wholesome of our foods ; great benefit will therefore be derived from the diet in any circumstances, especially in stomach complaints. It must be remembered, however, that cabbage and the coarser green vegetables do not agree with every one, and that, where it is a question only of stomach complaint unconnected with uric acid trouble, more bread and farinaceous food generally may readily be taken. Any one may easilv convince himself of the correctness of my state-11.3 DIET IN URIC ACID DISORDERS merits regarding the acidity of the urine and its solvent capacity. After the adoption of the prescribed diet, a urine which formerly had a tendency to precipitate uric acid will in a few days completely change its appear- ance and character. The red precipitate will disappear. The effect may be accelerated by partaking freely of water gruel, weak tea, etc. I should be glad if some of the sufferers from gout who may try the diet I have indicated would send me, for the sake of the cause, a note of the result in a few months’ or years’ time, at 28, Frederiksberg Allé, Copenhagen (Denmark). 1 1 W.Ji, 1A REFORMATION The above illustrates the entire change of scientific opinion which h^ taken place in the last lew years as regards the comparative values of the different classes of ioods.PART IV TABLE Explanation of the Table.—This table is composed of six columns. The first three give the chemical composition of the various products : i : Albumen ; 2 : Fat; 3 : Carbohydrates. The figures are calculated for gross weight. Those for net weight—after deducting bone, sinew, potato-peel, etc.—will be higher. The figures are partly taken from American analyses, partly from my own. For alcoholic drink, the alcohol is given in the same column as fat, but, as usual, I omit to give the calories contained in spirit, as their value is very questionable. In column No. 4 the calories are given for 1 lb. of raw product. In column 5 I have given the price per lb., but such prices vary according to places and seasons. They are, however, average prices, and may serve as a basis of comparison. The last column is calculated from columns 4 and 5, and shows how many calories can be had for xd. I beg housekeepers to study these figures, for, if they will keep them in view, it will be easy for them to manage on a small amount, and this is what we aim at. 1. Barley . . . . 2. Buckwheat . 3. Oats . . . . 4. Maize . . . . 5. Millet . . . . 6. Semolina 7. Rice . . . . 8. Sago . . . . 9. VVneat Flour 10. Rye Flour (Unsifted) 11. Rye Flour (Sifted) . 12. Barley Flour 13. Paisley Flour 14. Oatmeal Flour 15. Maize Flour . 16. Ground Rice 17. Macaroni 18. Noodles 19. Potato Flom-. 20. Sago Flour . 21. Rice Starch . 22. Cornflour (Wheat Starch) 23. FancyBread(Hoine-raade) 24. Fancy Bread (Baker’s) . 25. WhiteBread(Home-made) 26. White Bread (Baker’s) . 27. Standard Bread 28. Brown Bread Percentage of Albumen Per cent. Fat Per cent. Carbo- hydrates Per cent. Calories Per lb. Price Per lb. Calories Per id. 8-6 i-o 75 1.597 d . 0 2 798 7-8 I-I 79 1,661 0 2 830 i6-o 6-5 65 1,781 0 2 890 io-i 1-8 77 1,699 0 1 j 1,132 io-o 4-0 68 1,587 0 24 635 9’4 0*2 76 1,597 0 2 798 8*o 0-5 78 1,621 0 lb 1,080 2-0 — 82 1,562 O 2b 625 II*4 1*9 70 1,603 0 2 801 IO-0 1*9 74 1,663 O 2 831 10-4 1*3 75 1,643 0 3 547 12-0 20 7i 1,587 0 5 317 II’4 1*9 74 1,663 0 7 237 16-o 6*5 65 1,781 O 2 890 9-0 2*0 76 1,635 0 i£ 934 7-4 o*7 79 1,637 0 iX 1,091 11*0 0-6 77 1,662 0 3 554 11*0 — 76 1,588 0 3 529 0-9 — 8l G523 O 2 761 2*0 — 82 1,562 0 3 520 1*0 — 85 1,542 0 31 446 1*0 Tf 74 1,360 0 2b 544 8-o 04 56 1,207 0 ij 690 £$•0 o-4 56 1,207 0 ib S05 o-4 55 1,229 0 ib 819 10*2 0-4 55 1,229 O I* 819 10 °*5 52 1,17b 0 ijj 850 8*0 1*0 48 907 0 ii 605 1 2Ii6 WHAT TO EAT AND WHY 29. Wholemeal Bread . 30. Veda Bread . 31. ^White Bread Crumbs 32. Brown Bread Crumbs 33. Brown Bread (Hovis) 34. Rusks . 35. Sponge Cake 36. Sugar . 37. Honey . 38. Candied Lemon Peel 39. Lard . 40. Suet 41. Palmiue 42. Margarine (Animal) Margarine [Vegetable) ; 43. Margarine (Maypole) 44. “ Plantall ” (Monsted’s) 45. Dripping, 46. Fat Salt Bacon 47. Butter (Dairy) 48. Pure Milk (Town) . 49. Pure Milk (Country) 50. Skimmed Milk 51. Centrifugal Milk . 52. Buttermilk (Town) 53. Buttermilk (Country) 54. Milk (Sour) 55. Cream (Ordinary) . 50. Cream (to Whip) . 57. Cream (Sour) 58. Cheddar Cheese 59. Cheshire Cheese bo. Cheese made of pure Milk. 61. Canadian Cheese . 62. Gorgonzola, do. 63. Cheese (| Pure and 3 Skitnmed Milk) . 64. Camembert . 65. Cream Cheese 66. Roquefort 67. Cheese (Skimmed Milk) . 68. Gruyére 69. Dutch Cheese 70. Parmesan Cheese . 71. Eggs (Summer) 72. „ (Winter) 73. Yolk of Egg . 74. White of Egg 73. Split Peas 76. Peas (Green) Dried 77. Haricot Beans 78. Flageolets 79. Lentils 80. Hazelnuts (Kernel) 81. Walnuts 4 82. Chestnuts 83. Pea Nuts 84. Almonds ' 85. Prunes (Dried) and Plums Percentage of Albumen Fat Carbo- hydrates Per cent. Per cent. Per cent. 8-o 1*0 50 9"4 o-3 63 I3‘° o-5 77 13-0 t-5 75 9-7 1*6 39 13-0 5-0 77 9-0 8-0 7° — — IOO 1*0 — 80 o-3 — 20 o-3 99-0 — o-3 99-o — — 100-0 — o-S 85-0 — o-5 85-0 0-2 o-5 850 0*2 — 98-0 — 1-9 86-2 — o*6 85-0 — 30 1 3*5 5 3-0 3-5 5 30 0-7 5 3-0 0*1 5 3-0 0-5 5 3-0 0-5 5 3-3 4-0 4-8 3-o 13*0 4 i-3 30-0 4 2‘5 18-5 4-5 33-0 27-0 4-3 25*0 25-50 4-4 26*0 30*0 3, 33-0 31-0 4-4 19-90 23*0 -4-3 36-0 12*0 4 19-90 23-0 4-3 90 3<5-o 4 25*0 25-50 4-4 41-0 3-0 2 28-3 28-5 x-43 31-0 18-0 4 39-34 18-97 1-95 ii"9 9-3 — n-9 9-3 — i6-i 31-7 — 12-8 0-3 24-6 1*0 62 21-6 i-5 56 22*5 i-8 60 22 x-5 58 25-7 1-0 59 17-4 02*6 7 14-6 52*0 l6 6-4 2-4 67 19-5 29*1 19 210 55-0 17 1-8 — 56 j Calories Per lb. Price Per lb. Calories Per iri. 1.200 s. d. 0 1* 800 1,362 0 iA 908 1,698 0 ij M32 1,136 1.703 0 1) 975 0 i4 650 1,885 0 6 314 1,995 1 0 166 1,860 0 2 - 93° 1,506 0 8 188 385 0 5 77 4,182 0 7 597 4,182 0 5 836 4,218 0 6 703 3,610 0 6 602 3,605 0 C 601 3,605 0 8 451 4,100 0 4 1,025 3,672 O IO 367 3,610 I 2 258 Per Pint. Per Pint. 297 O 2 148 297 0 i j 198 178 O ll 119 153 0 ij 122 170 0 ij 113 170 0 o£ 340 310 0 IA 206 6 79 1 14 50 1,355 i 6 75 867 1 14 64 Per lb. Per !b. 2,145 O II 195 1,830 0 10 183 1,805 0 9 201 2,055 0 9 228 1,615 O IO l6l 1,250 0 6 208 1,615 1 2 115 i,950 1 3 130 1,700 1 4 106 926 0 5 1S5 1,850 1 0 154 1,435 0 9 159 1,785 1 2 127 614 0 7i 82 614 0 IO 6i 1,637 — — 251 1,653 0 ij- 1,102 1,660 O 3 553 1,610 O 2 805 1,690 0 3 563 1,618 O 2 809 3,099 O IO 309 3,095 O II 28l 1,605 0 3 535 1,934 0 34 552 3,027 t 5 178 1,075 0 4 269TABLE 117 86. Currants (Dried) 87. Sultanas, do 88. Raisins, do. 89. Dates, do. 90. Figs, do. 91. Apples, do. 92. Cherries, do. 93. Bilberries, do 94. Apricots, do. 95. Damsons (Fresh) 96. Plums, do. . 97. Cherries, do. . 98. Gooseberries, do. 99. Raspberries, do. 100. Currants, do. 101. Dessert Apples, d 102. Dessert Pears, do 103. Cooking Apples, < 104. Cooking Pears, do 105. Oranges, do. . 106. Bananas, do.. 107. Bilberries, do. 10S. Strawberries, do. 109. Elderberries, do. 110. Red Whortleberri in. Tomatoes 112. Tomatoes (Cheap Season 113. Melon . 114. Pumpkin 115. Cucumbers 116. Lemon 117. Potatoes 118. Carrots. 119. Oatroots 120. Parsley Root 121. Salsify . 122. Parsnip 123. Viper’s Grass 124. Kohlrabi 125. Beetroot 126. Turnips 127. Radishes 128. Celery . 129. Leeks . 130. Onions 131. Horseradish 132. Mushrooms 133- White Cabbage 134* Red Cabbage 135- Green Cabbage 136. Brussel Sprouts 137. Cauliflower (Spring) 138. Cauliflower (Summer) 139- French Beans 140. Green Peas (Shelled) 141. Green Peas (Unshelled) 142. Lettuce ' 143- Parsley 144- Spinach 145. Sorrel . 146. Rhubarb 147. Asparagus 14S. Beef (Very Fat) 149. Beef r Fat) Percentage of Albumen Per cent. Fat Per cent. ■ 2-4 2-3 2-3 2-0 4’3 1-6 2-4 5-1 4’7 o-8 o-8 0-9 o-5 o-5 o-4 0-2 0*2 0*2 0*2 0*6 o*6 o*8 o*8 0*1 0- i i*l i*i 1- o o*8 o*8 o*7 i*6 o*6 o*8 1-5 3’4 1-3 IT 2*0 1-3 1*0 o*9 1*2 1*2 0*7 2*7 3’5 1-4 i-4 3’2 4*7 2*7 2*7 2*0 3*6 3*6 1*0 1*0 2*1 2*1 0*4 1*8 I5’5 15*4 19*0 30*0 iS-6 i-7 3*o 3*o o*8o o*3 7*2 1*0 o*6 o*3 0*2 o*5 0*11 0*2 0*4 o*4 1*0 o*4 0*1 o*i6 0*1 0*3 o-5 0*2 0*20 0*2 0*2 IT o*5 0*5 0*3 o*3 0*3 0*2 0*2 0*3 o*49 0*54 0*2 26*9 18*3 2*8 6*6 18*5 Carbo- hydrates Per cent. 74 69 69 47 74 66 38 61 63 10 10 16 10 10 10 10 12 10 12 9 12 7 8 6 6 5 . 5 2 7 3 6 18 8 12 13 12 11 3 8 8 6 4 9 12 15 16 I 5 5 9 4 5 5 7 10 10 3 3 3 4*89 4 3 Calories Per lb. 1,493 1,443 1,443 907 1,469 1,259 751 1.533 1,292 201 201 314 195 195 219 190 229 190 227 169 241 145 158 115 115 115 II5 54 145 81 146 357 172 255 279 360 245 65 200 171 130 95 210 265 292 346 105 123 I23 230 214 157 157 180 253 253 65 65 in 160 105 103 1,423 1,058 47i 840 1,130 Price Per lb 3 3 ?A 4 14 ii 14 iå 4 -i 3" 2 4 2 4 3 3 3 oj ii 2 2 i i i 2 zl 1" 3 1 ij 1 2} li 3" 6 2 3 5 2 2l o 8 o 8 o 10 o 7 o 8 Calorics Per ill. 373 361 361 181 489 209 94 192 161 80 100 157 96. 65 73 54 57 127 151 112 161 36 63 38 78 28 57 13 48 27 48 714 114 127 139 360 245 65 100 85 130 47 105 106 292 II5 10 123 82 230 107 63 104 60 42 126 22 1.3 55 64 52 13 178 132 47 120 141118 WHAT TO EAT AND WHY 50 4-0 O 2l 115 “ 185. Lager Beer . 153. 154 155. 156. 157. 160. 161. 162. 163. i6.|. 165. 166. 167. 168. 169. 170. 171. 172. 173- 174. 175. 176. 177. 178. 179. 180. 181. 182. 183. 184. Beef Scraps . Ox Heart Stewing Meat Pork (Fat) . Pork (Loin) . Pork Chop . Pig’s Head . Pigs’ Tongues Pig’s Liver . Ham (Smoked) Veal (Fat) . Veal Calf’s Head . Calf’s Kidneys Mutton Mutton (Not Very Fat) Mutton Chop Mutton Scraps Goose (Fat) . Fowls . Herrings Eels . Mackerel Cod, Haddock Plaice . Turbot Salmon (River) Smoked Sausages . Stockfish Ale Bitter . Stout . Percentage of .lbumen ’er cent. Fat Per cent. Carbo- hydrates Per cent. Calories Per lb. Price Per lb. Calories Per id. 19*0 2-8 1.130 s. d. 0 3 370 147 13-7 — 853 I3’5 28-3 — 1,445 0 6 241 I3’5 25-9 — 1,343 0 n 122 iS’Q 13*0 — 900 1 0 75 16-9 30-1 — 1,580 1 0 131 4-1 13-8 — &59 — 15-6 I4’3 — 895 — — 21-3 4’5 i’4 G13 — — 25*0 36-0 — 1,984 0 11 180 I5’5 7’9 — 621 0 10 62 16-2 6-6 — 580 r 0 4.3 8-i 4-6 — 266 — 16-9 G-4 — 585 — — iG'5 i6*i — 986 0 10 98 15-9 13-6 — 870 0 10 87 17-6 28-3 — 1,540 0 10 154 16-5 i6-i — 986 0 3 328 >3'4 29-8 — i,50G 0 11 137 I3'7 12*3 — 774 0 7 110 11*2 3’9 — 373 0 5 75 14-8 7-2 — 579 0 1 48 10*2 4-2 — 3b7 0 5 73 8-4 0*2 — 165 0 4 41 '5'4 o-3 — II3 0 5 23 7 o-3 — 460 0 8 57 I5’3 8-o — 660 I 8 33 14-2 47'G 2 2,307 0 9 247 33-2 o-7 — 647 0 4 161 o*6 Alcohol. 5-o 6-o Per Pint. 152 Per Pint. 0 24 61 0*2 4-o 3-0 77 O 2i 31 o-6 5-0 8-o 198 0 zi 79INDEX No. of Recipe Page No. of Recipe Page 125 Almond Pudding 63 118 Bread Dumplings 61 Almonds XI 166 Bread Omelet 75 159 Apple Batter 73 129 Bread Pie 64 I5I Apple Cake, I. .. 70 7 Bread Porridge 27 152 Apple Cake, II... 71 128 Bread Pudding 64 15° Apple Cake with Brown 25 Bread Soup 32 Bread 70 133 Bread Toast, White 65 38 Apple Gruel 36 57 Broth, Beef 43 39 Apple Gruel, II. 36 77 Brussels Sprouts, Stewed 48 167 Apple Omelet 76 175 Bubble and Squeak 79 116 Apple Pancakes 60 Buttermilk 10 153 Apple Pie 71 114 Buttermilk Pancakes .. 59 22 Apple Soup 3i 204 Butter Sauce 90 4i Apples, Stewed Dried .. 37 40 Apples, Stewed Fresh .. 36 240 Apples and Potatoes, 81 Cabbage, Browned 49 Stewed .. 100 80 Cabbage, Browned White 48 226 Apricot J am 95 94 Cabbage Fritters, White 53 52 Asparagus Soup 40 185 Cabbage, Green, and 181 Aubain 81 Bacon 82 78 Cabbage, Red 48 184 Bacon, Dice of, with 82 74 Cabbage, Stewed Green 47 Onion Sauce 82 76 Cabbage, Stewed White 47 186 Bacon, Fried, in Bread 109 Cabbage, Stuffed White 58 Crumbs S3 48 Cabbage Soup, Browned 12 Barley Gruel with Cur- White 39 rants .. 28 45 Cabbage Soup, Green .. 38 2 Barley Porridge 26 44 Cabbage Soup with 15 Barley Soup 29 Groats 38 122 Batter Pudding 62 203 Caper Sauce 89 Beans IX 55 Carrot Soup 41 Beer 13 82 Carrots, Baked 49 238 Beetroot Salad .. 99 64 Carrots Sautée .. 44 65 Beetroot Sautée 45 69 Carrots, Stewed, I. 46 Biscuits .. 8 70 Carrots, Stewed, II. 46 252 Biscuits .. 104 72 Carrots, Stewed, and 35 Blanc-mange, Red, from Green Peas .. 46 Syrup .. 35 106 Cauliflower au Gratin .. 57 34 Blanc-mange, Red, with 49 Cauliflower Soup 39 Fresh Fruit 35 no Celery Root, Fried 201 Brawn .. 88 Stuffed 58 Bread 7 66 Celery Sautée 45 245 Bread, Coarse Wheaten IOI 56 Celery Soup 42 136 Bread Croutons 66 Cereals 7 248 Bread, Fine 102 Cheese .. 11 137 Bread, Fried Slices of .. 66 161 Cherry Pudding 73 247 Bread, White .. 102 19 Cherry Soup 3° 246 Bread, Wholemeal 102 46 Chervil Soup 39 156 Bread and Butter Pud- 32 Chestnut Pudding 34 ding 72 188 Chicken with Rice 83120 INDEX 26 Nuts 11 Ground Rice Porridge.. No. of Recipe 258 Christmas Cake.. 123 Christmas Pudding Cocoa 189 Cod Croquettes.. Coffee 42 Compåte Cream 134 Croutons, Fried, I. 135 Croutons, Fried, II. 132 Croutons, Toasted 216 Cucumber Sauce 260 Currant Cake .. 143 Currant and Rice Mould 68 JI3 Currant and Treacle Pudding 59 219 Curry Sauce 94 125 Custard .. 63 220 Custard Sauce .. 94 168 Damson Omelet 76 148 Damson Soufflée Diet in Uric Acid Dis- 69 orders 109 120 Dumplings, Baked ft 61 Eggs 11 172 Eggs, Curried 77 162 Eggs, Soft Boiled 74 165 Egg Cake with Bacon . . 75 164 Egg Cake, with Brown Bread 75 163 Egg Cake, with White Bread 74 Egg Dishes 74 6 Egg Gruel 26 21 Elderberry Soup 3i 224 Elderberry Syrup 95 Fat Products S 155 Fig Cake 7i 197 Fish Balls, Mock 87 191 Fish Fritters 85 190 Fish Hash 84 95 Fritters of Various Roots 53 Fruits 12 222 Fruit Sauce 94 28 Fruit Soup, Sour 33 29 Fruit Soup, Sour (cheap) 33 124 German Rice Pudding.. 62 253 Gingerbread Nuts 104 2 43 Gooseberry Preserve .. 101 119 Ground Rice Dumplings 61 4 Page .. 106 .. 62 .. 14 .. 84 .. 14 •• 37 .. 11 .. 65 .. 65 .. 65 •• 93 .. 106 No. of Recipe Page 17 Ground Rice Soup .. 29 in Gulasch .. .. .. 58 177 Ham Fritters 87 Haricot Bean Balls 47 Herb Soup 263 Hohlhippen 218 Horseradish Sauce 178 Household Pudding 79 5i 39 107 93 80 157 Imperial Viennese Cake 72 79 Irish Stew .. .. 48 88 Italian Beans .. .. 51 225 Jam • • 95 262 Jews’Cakes .. 107 193 Kidney Ragout .. 85 259 Klejner .. .. 106 30 Lemon Custard.. • • 33 206 Lemon Sauce .. 90 89 Lentil Fritters .. • • 51 108 Lentil Hash • . 57 241 Lentil Patties .. . . IOO Lentils .. II 90 Lentil Steak • • 52 242 Liver Patty . . IOO 91 Lobscouse • • 52 142 Macaroni, Boiled 67 176 Macaroni and Ham Pie 79 140 Macaroni Ring .. 67 139 Macaroni Roulettes 66 239 Macaroni Salad 99 5 Maize Mould 26 227 Marmalade 95 Mastication 16 Meat 13 197 Meat Balls S7 102 Meat and Potato Cakes 55 Milk 10 18 Milk Soup, Sour 29 182 Miroton .. 81 I4I Mock Cod 6 7 195 Mock Hare 86 205 Mock Mayonnaise Sauce 90 92 Mock Turtle 52 197 Mock Turtle 87 217 Mustard Sauce 93INDEX I 2 I No. of Recipe 13 Oatmeal Porridge 26 Oatmeal Soup 212 Onion Sauce, Brown .. 213 Onion Sauce,Brown,with Tomatoes, I. .. 214 Onion Sauce,Brown.with Tomatoes, II. 210 Onion Sauce 264 Orangeade 201 Parsley Sauce, I. 202 Parsley Sauce, II. 5° Pea Soup, Green Peanuts Peas 68 Peas, Stewed Green Pig’s Head 194 Pig’s Liver, Fried 196 Pi<*s’ Tongues in Caper Sauce .. 123 Plum Pudding .. 147 Plum Tart 149 Plums, Dessert 19S Pork Cutlets 211 Pot Herbs, Browned, for Sauces 86 Potato Balls Potatoes, Boiled 53 Potatoes, with Butter and Salt 173 Potato Chops, with Meat 93 Potato Dumplings 62 Potatoes, Fried.. 61 Potatoes with Fried Onions 174 Potato Fritters with Meat 83 Potato Fritters, I. 84 Potato Fritters, II. 85 Potato Fritters, 111. 60 Potatoes, Mashed 235 Potatoes, Mashed W1 Potato Omelet 53 Potato and Onion Soup 59 Potatoes with Parsley Sauce 100 Potato Pie 98 Potato Ring, I... 99 Potato Ring, II. 233 Potato Salad, I., Cold .. 234 Potato Salad, II., Cold .. 229 Potato Salad, I., Warm 230 Potato Salad, II., Warm 231 Potato Salad, III.,Warm 232 Potato Salad, IV., Warm 63 Potatoes Sautée 54 Potato Soup with Curry 71 Potatoes, Stewed IOI Potato and Tomato Pie No. of Recipe _ Page 103 Potato and White Cab- bage Pie .. • • 56 121 Princess Pudding .. 61 149 Prunes .. .. ..70 36 Prune Gruel .. • • 35 169 Prune Omelet .. .. 76 146 Prune Puffed Pic .. 69 144 Prunes and Rice Pudding 68 37 Prunes, Stewed.. .. 36 160 Pudding for the Gods .. 73 Puff-Paste Squares .. 87 Pulses 11 259 Quick Cakes 106 244 Red Currant Compote IOI 223 Red Currant Syrup and Rhubarb 95 24 Rhubarb and Bread Soup 3T 154 Rhubarb Cake .. 7i 31 Rhubarb Fool .. 34 221 Rhubarb Sauce 94 23 Rhubarb Soup 3i 33 Rhubarb, Stewed 34 224 Rhubarb Syrup 95 265 Rhubarb Syrup 108 10 Rice, Boiled (Plain) 27 1 Rice, Boiled (with Milk) 25 8 Rice Gruel with Apples 27 9 Rice Gruel with Rhubarb 27 127 Rice Mould 63 170 Rice Omelet 77 117 Rice Pancakes .. 60 126 Rice Pudding 63 145 Rice Ring with Whipped Cream and Stewed Prunes 6S 20 Rice Soup 3« 11 Rice for Soup 2S *4 Rice Soup with Milk .. 29 i S3 Rissoles 82 249 Rolls 103 251 Rusks, Large 103 250 Rusks, Small 103 16 Sago Soup .. .. 29 107 Salsify au Gratin .. 57 Sauce .. .. .. 87 215 Sauce Piquante, Brown 93 199 Sausages .. .. 88 158 Snowballs .. .. 72 112 Soufflé, Rusks .. .. 59 261 Specie Dollars .. .. 107 Spices .. .. .. x 4 97 Spinach Dumplings .. 54 107A Spinach Pie .. .. 57 51 Spinach Soup .. .. 40 Page 28 32 92 92 92 9i 107 89 89 40 11 XI 45 88 86 86 62 69 70 88 92 50 42 43 78 52 44 44 78 49 50 5° 43 98 77 4i 43 55 54 55 97 97 96 96 97 97 44 4i 46 55INDEX 122 . of Recipe. Page No. of Recipe P-ge 75 Spinach, Stcwccl . 47 Vegetables 12 192 Steak and Kidney Pud- 73 Vegetable Fricassee 46 ding with Potatoes .. 85 104 Vegetable Pudding, I... 56 266 Strawberry Syrup 108 105 Vegetable Pudding, II. 56 Sugar 8 187 Vegetable Rolls.. 83 237 Vegetable Salad 98 255 Vienna Bread, Cheap .. 104 Table 115 256 Vienna Twist, I. 105 Table, Explanation of.. II5 257 Vienna Twist, II. 105 Tea 14 180 Timbale with Cauliflower 80 138 Toast, Devonshire 66 179 Tobbington 80 3 Wheat Porridge 26 96 Tomato Fritters 54 254 Wholemeal Biscuits 104 228 Tomato Purée 96 1x5 Wholemeal Pancakes . 60 207 Tomato Sauce, I. 9i Wine 13 208 Tomato Sauce, 11. 91 209 Tomato Sauce, III. 9i 67 Tomatoes Sautée 45 27 Tomato Soup 32 130 Yeast Cake 64 Tubers .. 12 131 Yeast Dumplings 65 Sr Turnips, Browned 49 43 Yellow Pea Soup 38 BRADBURY, AGNEW, & CO. I.D., BRINTERS, LONDON AND TONBRIDGE.I Plantall brand is the last word in fat foods. It is made entirely from pure nuts, milk, and butter, and supersedes all Margarine produced from animal fat. Equal in flavour ai d nutriment to the finest butter, and assimilated with greater ease, owing to its slightly lower melting point. The price is 8d. per lb. Its food value in comparison with cost is unequalled. One lb. of butter at Is. 2d. equals 963 food units per Is, One lb. of Plantall Nut Margarine at 8d. equals 1,672 food units per Is. If your provision merchant does not stock ‘Plantall, send us his name and address, and we will send you a free sample. Otto Monsted, Ltd. Margarine Manufacturers, — ,,, SOUTHALL.Windsor House, Kingsway, London, W.C. Helpful Health Handbooks. PROTEIN & NUTRITION An Investigation. By Dr. M. HINDHEDE, Director of the Hindhede Laboratory for Nutrition Research established by the Danish Government. NET 7/6 Postage 6d. From their own figures and experiments Dr. Hindhede claims to disprove the deductions of many of the leading dietetic authorities, and to show that the value of Protein as a food has been much overrated, and that man as well as animals can live on half the amount prescribed as necessary and accepted by scientific authority. Apart from the published results of experiments which will appeal chiefly to doctors, the book will be found of great interest and value to the lay reader, and will enable him to decide as to the diet best suited to his individual needs. HOW LUIGI CORNARO REGAINED HIS HEALTH AND LIVED 100 YEARS This fascinating book has been famous for over 350 years for its sane common sense, and is to-day as fresh and as valuable a guide to the full enjoyment of a healthy life as when it was written. The present edition, newly published, contains a biographical introduction and an address by Dr. E. Van Someren, on Luigi Cornaro’s method. The “ Discourses on the Sober Life,” as the book was originally called, are as delightful as they are full of practical dietetic wisdom, and will appeal forcibly to every health seeker and physical culturist. 1 /= net. Postage 3d. SUNCOOKED FOOD By Eugene Christian This work has had an enormous sale in the United States and other countries. The present edition is practically a new work, embodying the results of the author's latest'investigations. 2/6 net. Postage 3d. DICTIONARY OF DIET A Handbook for Everybody A compendium of information concerning the functions and con- stituents of common articles of food and drink, and the time required in digesting them, all arranged in alphabetical order. l/= net. Postage 2d. From all Booksellers, and the Publishers, EWART, SEYMOUR & CO., Ltd.,BRUSSON JEUNE GLUTEN BREAD BISCUITS AND CEREAL PREPARATIONS FOR MAINTAINING AND INCREASING Health, Strength and General Fitness THESE SPECIALITIES ARE UNSURPASSED They have the Largest Sale of any similar articles throughout the World and are being extensively prescribed by leading members of the Medical Profession for Indigestion, Rheumatism, Gout, Obesity and Diabetes. Can be obtained of the leading Stores, Chemists and Bakei's. Samples and all particulars from— BRUSSON JEUNE (THERAPEUTIC FOODS CO.) 23, Bedford Chambers, Covent Garden, LONDON.Windsor House, Kingsway, London, W.C. LIEUT. J. P. MULLER’S WORKS. “ MY SYSTEM “ " F'fteon Minutes’ Work a Day for Health’s Sake. By J. P. MULLER (Ex-Lieutenant Royal Engineers, Denmark, late Inspector of Danish Tubercular Sanatoria). With Cinematograph Illustrations and a Time-table. Stiff Covers, 2/6 net. Post free, 2/9. Charts of Exercises : No. i, Simplest Degree ; No. 2, Advanced Degree ; l/= each. Post Free, 1/2 each. Special Learner’s Edition, containing larger photographs, showing key position for each exercise, large type instructions, printed on art paper, 5/=. By post, 5/4. The Illustrations to the Exercises are taken from Cinematograph films of the Author in the Act of performing them. 1 he work has already achieved the phenomenal sale of over 550,000 copies. “MY SYSTEM FOR LADIES,” Fifteen Minutes’ Exercise a Day for Health’s Sake. 100 Photograph Illustrations of a Lady Performer showing how to do all the Exercises. With Stiff Covers, 2/6 net. Post free, 2/9. Charts of Exercises : No. 1, Simplest Degree; No. 2, Advanced Degree ; l/= each. Post Free, 1/2 each. Special Learner’s Edition, containing larger photo- graphs, showing key position for each exercise, large type instructions, printed on art paper, 5/=, By post, 5/4. “ MY SYSTEM FOR CHILDREN.” Illustrated with 125 Photographs. An adaptation of “My System ”• to the needs of Children. It is divided into two sections: f 1 ^ “My System” applied to Babies and Infants under four years ; (2) “ My System ” for older Children. Paper Boards, 2/6 net. By post, 2/9. Chart of Exercises, one degree, simplest form, 1/-. By post, 1/2. Special Learner’s Edition, containing larger photographs, showing key position for each exercise, large type instructions, printed on art paper, 5/=. By post, 5/4. A New and Valuable Work. “ MY FIVE MINUTES’ BREATHING SYSTEM.” Correct Breathing is the first consideration if Health is to be main- tained. Lieut. Muller has made exhaustive studies on the mechanical and physiological processes of respiration, and is an acknowledged authority on the subject. In his characteristically plain, commonsense way, the author shows how the healthy and unhealthy, even those too weak to per- form physical exercises, may devote a few minutes a day to his Breathing System with great benefit to themselves. 2/6 net. Post free, 2/9. “THE FRESH AIR BOOK.” In “ The Fresh Air Book” Lieut. Muller shows how to make die best use of fresh air and sunlignt for the promotion of health and strength not only without loss of comfort, but with a considerable gain thereto. 2/6 net. Post free, 2/9. From all Booksellers, or from EWART, SEYMOUR & CO., Ltd.,Windsor House, Kingsway, London, W.C. MANHU Flaked Cereals are true Health Builders. They include Flaked \Vil LA I, BARLEY, RYE, KICK and HOMINY—all appetising Breakfast Foods, easily assimilated even where digestion is weak, 1' laked Wheat and I' laked Rye, e-lb. packets 6d., are excellent natural remedies FOR CONSTIPATION Manhu Flaked Foods are quickly cooked, but may also be used straight from the packet with hot milk, or with dried fruit and cream. .Vc/iY at all Health Food Stores. If Use the Manhu Stone-ground Wholemeal Flour for all purposes. Digestible and Nutritious. 7-lb. bag 1/- ; 3i-lb. 6d. MANHU DIABETIC FOODS are starch-changed, palatable and inexpensive. Send for Price List, Recipes and Free Sample to London Depot, 23 MOUNT PLEASANT, LONDON, W.C. Phone, Holborn 5884. THE MANHU FOOD Co., Ltd., LIVERPOOL These books are the most delightful, sturdy, helpful and inspiring books imaginable. They deal with Health and Happiness—two subjects inseparable from each other. FLETCHERISM: WHAT IT IS; Or How I Became Young at Sixty. By HORACE FLETCHER, M.A. Fellow A merican Association for the Advancement of Science. “ Fletcherism " is a new word which is included in the latest dictionaries of several countries. Horace Fletcher, from whose name popular usage has derived the word, is one of the most remarkable personalities living to-day, and is famous equally as a philosopher and dietetic reformer. This book gives “a compact statement of Fletcherism,” and it is safe to say that no intelligent reader will peruse the book without becoming convinced that Mr. Fletcher’s principles are the sanest ever propounded. 2/6 net. Post free 2/9. Other Books by Horace Fletcher, M.A. :— THE A.B.-Z. OF OUR OWN NUTRITION. 5/- net. By post 5/4. THE NEW MENTICULTURE, Or the A.B.C. of True Living, 4/- net. By post 4/3. HAPPINESS As found in Forethought minus Feartbought. 41- net,. By post 4/3. OPTIMISM : A Real Remedy. 2/6 net. By post 2/9. All Booksellers, or from EWART, SEYMOUR & CO., LTD,Windsor House, Kingsway, London, W.C. Uncle Bobs” Helpful Manuals on Health and Exercise. 6d. Accidents and Ailments, Every- Day Anaemia and its Treatment. Arm, How to Develop the Asthma and How to Cure It. Back, How to Strengthen Baths and Health. Chest, How to get a Good Circulation, How to Improve Constipation, How to Cure Diet, Simple Rules and Advice. Eyes, Care of the Fingers and Wrists, How to Strengthen Fit, How to Keep (Eight minutes’ Exercise a day for the Busy Man.) Flesh, How to Tut On Foot Ailments and Care of the Feet Hair, Care of the Hollow Necks and how to Cure them. each. Heart, How to Strengthen the Height, How to Increase Indigestion, How to Cure Insomnia, How to Cure Knock-Knees and Bow-Legs. Legs, How to Develop the Liver Healthy, How to Keep the Lungs, How to Strengthen the J Nasal Catarrh, How to Cure | Nerves, How to Strengthen the j Physical Culture lor Beginners Rheumatism and How to Cure It. Round Shoulders and How to Cure them. Skin, Care of the Skipping for Health and Training. Stuttering and Stammering. Teeth, Care of the Tumbling Tricks. Weight, How to Reduce Varicose Veins. — How to treat them. WHAT READERS SAY : “ 1 Knock-Knees ’ has done me 60 shillings’ worth of good. I have a totally different appearance altogether when walking, my legs are wonder- fully improved.”—J. Park. “Instructions in ‘How to Strengthen the Nerves’ are beneliting me.'’—G. E. Barnet (Fleet). “I feel much better for daily observance of regimen suggested in ‘ How to Keep Fit.’ ”—F. Gray (Doncaster). “ I have three of your booklets for Chest, Liver and Nerves, and have put the instructions into regular practice. Although 50 years old am making rapid progress.’’—D. J. Evans (Tirphill). 6d. each booh. Post free, 7d. “Uncle Bob's” l/= Series. The following are similar to the preceding series, but larger in size, and deal more fully with their respective subjects. Ably written, well illustrated, and full of much sound and helpful advice. Brainfag, How to Remedy. Bronchitis, its Cause and Cure. Facial Massage, Blushing, and Kindred Aflections. Influenza, How Caused and How Cured. Middle Life, Health Hints for. Others in preparation. Most Booksellers, or direct from the Publishers, EWART, SEYMOUR & CO., Ltd.,RECORD OF TREATMENT, EXTRACTION, REPAIR, etc. Pressmark: Binding Ref No: 1X6 2 Microfilm No: Date Particulars i A7b)o>£ Chemical Treatment Fumigation Deacidification Lamination Solvents Leather Treatment Adhesives RemarksA " 'A, Ewart, Seymoorg Gfc? PU BLI SHERS. WINDSOR HOUSE. KING SWAY, LONDON ,WC. A ,v (I