129 CHAP. IV.] SAUCES. MILD MUSTARD. Mustard for instant use should be mixed with milk, to which a spoonful or two of very thin cream may be added. MUSTARD THE COMMON WAT. The great art of mixing mustard, is to have it perfectly smooth, and of a proper consistency. The liquid with which it is moistened should be added to it in small quantities, and the mustard should be well rubbed, and beaten with a spoon. Mix a half-teaspoonful of salt with two ounces of the flour of mus- tard, and stir to them by degrees, sufficient boiling water to reduce it to the appearance of a thick batter; do not put it into the mustard-glass until cold. Some persons like a half-tea- spoonfnl of sugar, in the finest powder, mixed with it. It ought to be sufficiently diluted always to drop easily from the spoon. FRENCH BATTER. (Forfrying vegetables, and for apple, peach, or orange fritters ) Cut a couple of ounces of good butter into small bits, pour on it less than a quarter-pint of boiling water, and when it is dis- solved, add three quarters of a pint of cold water, so that the whole shall not be quite milk warm; mix it then by degrees, and very smoothly, with twelve ounces of fine dry flour, and a small pinch of salt, if the batter be for fruit fritters, but with more if for meat or vegetables. Just before it is used, stir into it the whites of two eggs beaten to a solid froth; but previously to this, add a little water should it appear too thick, as some flour requires more liquid than other, to bring it to the proper consistency. Butter, 2 ozs.; water, from f to nearly 1 pint; little salt; flour, | lb.; whites of 2 eggs, beaten to snow. TO PREPARE BREAD FOR FRYING FISH. Cut thick slices from the middle of a loaf of light bread, pare the crust entirely from them, and dry them gradually in a cool oven until they are crisp quite through; let them become cold, then roll or beat them into fine crumbs, and keep them in a dry place for use. To strew over hams or cheeks of bacon, the bread should be left all night in the oven, which should be suffi- ciently heated to brown, as well as to harden it: it ought indeed to be entirely converted into equally-coloured crust. It may be sifted through a dredging-box on to the hams, after it has been reduced almost to powder. k •