£chap. XVIII. 408 MODERN COOKERY. into a pie-dish. Cover the top entirely with slices of bread free from crust, and half an inch thick, cut so as to join neatly, and buttered on both sides: hake the pudding in a moderate oven for about half an hour, or in a Dutch oven before the fire. New milk, 1 quart; cinnamon, or lemon-rind ; sugar, 3 ozs.; Jittle salt; eggs, 3; buttered bread: baked i hour. PUDDING A DA PAYSANNE. (Cheap and good.) Fill a deep tart-dish with alternate layers of well-sugared fruit, and very thin slices of the crumb of a light stale loaf; let the upper layer be of fruit, and should it be of a dry kind, sprinkle over it about a dessertspoonful of water, or a little lemon-juice: raspberries, currants, and cherries, will not require this. Send the pudding to a somewhat brisk oven to be baked for about half an hour. The proportion of sugar used must be regulated, of course, by the acidity of the fruit. For a quart of ripe greengages, split and stoned, five ounces will be sufficient. Apricots, peaches, and nectarines will scarcely require more; hut damsons, bullaces, and various other plums will need a much larger quantity. A superior pudding of this kind is made by substituting sponge cake for the bread. INDIAN PUDDING. Put into a deep dish from six to eight ounces of rice which has been washed, and wiped in a dry cloth; just moisten it with milk, and set it into a gentle oven; add milk to it at intervals, in small quantities, until the grain is swollen to its full size, and is tender, but very dry; then mix with it two dessertspoonsful of fine sugar, and if it should be at hand, four or five tablespoonsful of rich cream. Fill a tart-dish almost to the brim with fruit properly sugared, heap the rice equally over it, leaving it rough, and bake it in a moderate oven for half an hour, unless the fruit should be of a kind to require a longer time; when very hard, it must be half stewed with the sugar before it is put into the dish. The rice may be swelled over a very slow fire when more convenient; and the Dutch or Ameri- can oven wall serve quite well to bake the pudding. BAKED HASTY PUDDING. Take from a pint of new milk sufficient to mix into a thin batter two ounces of flour, put the remainder, with a small pinch of salt, into a clean saucepan, and when it boils quickly, stir the flour briskly to it; keep it stirred over a gentle fire for ten