551 CHAP. XXVI.] SYRUPS, LIQUEURS, &C. CUIRASSEAU, OR CURAtJOA. (An excellent and wholesome liqueur.') Stick into the rind of a very fine China orange of rich flavour from three to four cloves; put it into a glass jar, and shower over it half a pound of West Indian sugar, of good quality; pour in a quart of French brandy, tie a couple of bladders over the jai, or stop it with a cork fitted to its size, and place it in a sunny window, or any other warm place, for a month; shake it gently xound every day to dissolve the sugar, or stir it, if need- ful ; then strain it off, and bottle it. It is sometimes filtered; but the jong exposure to the air which this occasions is better avoided. It is an admirable household stomachic liqueur, of which we obtained the receipt abroad, from a friend who had it made yeaily in considerable quantity. One veiy fine richly-flavoured China orange, left '/hole (or 2 small ones), stuck with 3 or 4 cloves; good pale brown sugar, a lb.; French brandy, 1 quart: infuse, 1 month. THE tEGENT’s, OR GEORGE THE FOURTH’S, PUNCH. Pare as thn as possible the rinds of two China oranges, of two lemons, and of one Seville orange, and infuse them for an hour in half a pirt of thin cold syrup; then add to them the juice of the fruit. Make a pint of strong green tea, sweeten it well with fine sugir, and when it is quite cold, add it to the fruit and syrup, with a ;lass of the best old Jamaica rum, a glass of brandy, one of arrack one of pine-apple syrup, and two bottles of cham- pagne ; pass tie whole through a fine lawn sieve until it is per- fectly clear, tbn bottle, and put it into ice until dinner is served. We are indeted for this receipt to a person who made the punch daily fr the prince’s table, at Carlton palace, for six months; it haibeen in our possession some years, and may be relied on. Rinds and jme of 2 China oranges, 2 lemons, and of 1 Seville orange; syrup, pint; strong green tea, sweetened, 1 pint; best old Jamaica rui, arrack, French brandy (vieux cognac), and pine-apple syru, each 1 glassful; champagne, 2 bottles. In ice for a couple of burs. 'HE OLD BACHELOR’S PUNCH. Put into a hif-pint tumbler the very thin rind of a fresh lemon, and fill itvith boiling water; squeeze the juice into a 6econd glass of te same size, and fill it more than half full