579 APPENDIX. minute or two, and add less than a teaspoonful of strained lemon-juice; spread it evenly over the cake or pastry, and dry it very gently indeed, either in a quite cool oven, or in a meat screen placed before the fire. From the difference in the size of eggs, a little more or less of sugar may be required for this icing. It may be coloured with a very few drops of prepared cochineal, or of spinage-juice, to give it a rose, or pale green tint. Whites of eggs beaten to snow, 2; sugar, 8 ozs.; lemon- juice, small teaspoonful. TO DRESS AND TO CHOOSE MACCARONI, AND OTHER ITALIAN PASTES. After careful and repeated trial of different modes of dress- ing various kinds of maccaroni, we find that in preparing them with Parmesan cheese, unmixed with any of a more mellow nature, there is always a chance of failure, from its tendency, which we have elsewhere noticed, to gather into lumps; we would therefore recommend the inexperienced reader to sub- stitute for it in part, or altogether, any finely flavoured English cheese; and the better to ensure its blending smoothly with the other ingredients (when neither white, nor any other thickened sauce is used with it), to dissolve the butter, and to stir to it a small teaspoonful of flour, before any liquid is added, then care- fully to mix with it the cream or gravy, as directed for Sauce Tournee, page 96, and to give this a boil before the maccaroni and cheese are added: if gently tossed as these become hot, the whole will be smooth, and the cheese will adhere properly to the paste. The Neapolitan maccaroni, of which the pipes are large, and somewhat thin, should be selected always for the table in preference to the Genoa, which is less in size, but more substantial, and therefore better suited to the formation of the various fanciful timbales, for which it is usually chosen. We have inserted here no receipts for these, because unless very skilfully prepared they are sure to fail, and they are not in much request in this country, unless it be at the tables of the aristocracy, for which they are prepared by efficient cooks. We have already noticed the ribbon maccaroni (or lazanges), which is very good, and quickly boiled; but we have not mentioned the maccaroncini, which, though not much larger than a straw, requires more time to render it soft. The Naples vermicelli, which is much larger than any other, may be dressed like maccaroni: it is also preferable to the smaller kind for soups. All these pastes should be of a yellowish