CHAP. XXIII.] 519 CAKES. A SPONGE CAKE. (Good and quickly made.) Beat together for between twenty and thirty minutes, the yolks of nine and the whites of five fresh eggs; then by degrees add three quarters of a pound of sugar, and six and a half of flour. Flavour it or not, at choice, with the grated rind of a lemon, and bake it an hour, or rather more, in a brisk oven. A GOOD MADEIRA CAKE. Whisk four fresh eggs until they are as light as possible, then, continuing still to whisk them, throw in by slow degrees the following ingredients in the order in which they are written: six ounces of dry, pounded, and sifted sugar; six of flour, also dried and sifted; four ounces of butter just dissolved, but not heated; the rind of a fresh lemon; and the instant before the cake is moulded, beat well in the third of a teaspoonful of carbonate of soda: bake it an hour in a moderate oven. In this, as in all compositions of the same nature, observe particu- larly that each portion of butter must be beaten into the mix- ture until no appearance of it remains before the next is added; and if this be done, and the preparation be kept light by con- stant and light whisking, the cake will be as good, if not better, than if the butter were creamed. Candied citron can be added to the paste, but it is not needed. Eggs, 4; sugar, 6 ozs.; flour, 6 ozs.; butter, 4 ozs.; rind of 1 lemon; carbonate of soda, £ of teaspoonful: 1 hour, mo- derate oven. A SOLIMEMNE. (A rich French breakfast cakey or Sally Lunn.) From three quarters of a pound of flour, take three ounces for the leaven, and make it into a lithe paste with half an ounce of solid, well-washed yeast (see Chapter XXVIII.), mixed with two or three tablespoonsful of just warm cream, or new milk; throw a cloth over and leave it near the fire to rise for about half an hour, or until it is twice its original size. In the interim make a hollow in the centre of the remainder of the flour, and put into it a quarter of an ounce of fine salt, one ounce of pounded sugar, the yolks of four fresh eggs, four ounces of lukewarm butter, and a couple of tablespoonsful of cream, also warm. Mix the whole gently and carefully into a perfectly