574 APPENDIX. good mayonnaise, remoulade, or English saiaa-dressmg. (See pages 111—113.) Next, half fill the bowl or more with small salad herbs, or with young lettuces finely shred, and arrange upon them spirally, or in a chain, alternate slices of the flesh of a .large lobster, or of two middling-sized ones, and some hard boiled eggs cut thin and evenly. Leave a space in the centre, pour in the sauce, heap lightly some small salad on the top, and send the dish immediately to table. The coral of a second lobster may be intermingled with the white flesh of the fish with very good effect; and the forced eggs of page 424 may be placed at intervals round the edge of the bowl as a decoration, and an excellent accompaniment as well. Another mode of making the salad is to lay the split bodies of the fish round the bowl, and the claws, freed carefully from the shells, arranged high in the centre on the herbs; the soft part of the bodies may be mixed with the sauce when it is liked ; but the colour will not then be good. Obs.—The addition of cucumber in ribbons (see Author’s Receipt, page 312), laid lightly round it, is always an agreeable one to lobster salad: they may previously be sauced, and then drained from their dressing a little. like those described in the receipt for a vol-au-vent, page 347. Roll off some good puff, or cream-crust to about the third of .an inch thick, and with the larger tin shape, cut two portions of equal size ; press the small cutter quite through the second of these, and gently disengage it from the border of paste which it will form; then, after having moistened the under side of this equally all round, lay it very evenly upon the other part of the paste and press it with the blade of a knife just sufficiently to make it adhere; set the tart into a mo- derate oven and when it appears perfectly baked, which it will usually be in from twenty to thirty minutes, draw it out, and fill it with apricot, or green-gage jam, or with any other rich preserve; let it become quite cold, and then heap lightly over GENTLE CRITIC S TOURTE A LA CREME. Form of Tourte. To make this kind of tart, (which is both delicate eating, and of very tasteful ap- pearance,) in the best and easiest manner, a couple of fluted cutters should be had.