212 [CHAP. IX. MODERN COOKERY. nest possible slices, and let them be free from fat and skin. Slice also, very thin, a pound of striped bacon, and trim away the rind. Mix thoroughly a dessertspoonful of salt, a teaspoonful of pounded mace, as much of nutmeg, one and a half of white pepper, and the minced or grated rinds of two lemons, and with these season the veal equally; butter thickly a deep earthen- pan, and lay the meat in smoothly in alternate layers, begin- ning with the bacon; press the whole closely 'down, put a round of buttered paper over it, tie on the cover of the pan, set it into a large saucepan of warm water, and let it simmer for two hours and a half from the time of its beginning to boil. If to be served hot, merely heap the meat upon a dish, skim the fat from the gravy, and pour it over; but if to be eaten cold, which it more usually is, put a plate with a weight upon it on the top of the brezolles, pour all the gravy from them, and leave them in the pan for four and twenty hours, when they will turn out in a solid mass or cake, and remain good many days if kept in a cool place; the gravy, strained, and reduced to jelly, may be placed round them as a garnish. The brezolles may, if more convenient, be baked in a gentle oven, but they will then require rather less time. In France they are commonly stewed as slowly as possible, and when half done, a couple of glasses of white wine or of rich gravy is added to them; minced herbs are also sometimes strewed between the layers of meat. Yeal, 3 lbs.; bacon, 1 lb.; salt, 1 dessertspoonful; mace and nutmeg, 1 teaspocnful each; pepper, 1£ teaspoonful; rinds of lemons, 2 : simmered 2^ hours. NORMAN HARRICO. Brown in a stewpan, or fry lightly, after having sprinkled them with pepper, salt and flour, from two to three pounds of veal cutlets. If taken from the neck, chop the bones very short, and trim away the greater part of the fat. Arrange them as flat as they can be in a saucepan; give a pint of hot water a boil in the pan in which they have been browned, and pour it on them 'x add a small faggot of parsley, and, should the flavour be liked, one of green onions also. Let the meat simmer softly for half an hour ; then cover it with small new potatoes which have had a single boil in water, give the sauce- Ean a shake, and let the harrico stew very gently for another alf hour, or until the potatoes are quite done, and the veal is tender. When the cutlets are thick and the potatoes approach- ing their full size, more time will be required for the meat, and