MODERN COOKERY. fCHAP. VII. 160 of acid fruit which had been boiled without sugar, in a copper pan from which the tin lining was half worn away, coated with verdigris after it had become cold; and from the careless habits of the person who had prepared it, the chances were greatly m favour of its bding served to a family afterwards, if it had not been accidently discovered. Salt acts upon the copper in the same manner as acids : vegetables, too, from the portion of the latter which they contain, have the same injurious effect; and the greatest danger results from allowing preparations contain- ing any of these to become cold (or cool) in the stewpan, in contact with the exposed part of the copper in the inside. Thick, well-tinned iron saucepans will answer for all the ordi- nary purposes of common English cookery, even for stewing, provided they have tightly-fitting lids to prevent the escape of the steam; but the copper ones are of more convenient form, and better adapted to a superior order of cookery. We shall have occasion to speak more particularly in another part of this work, of the German enamelled stewpans, so safe, and so well suited, from the extreme nicety of the composition, resembling earthenware or china, with which they are lined, to all delicate compounds. The cook should be warned, however, that they retain the heat so long, that the contents will boil for several minutes after thev are removed from the fire, and this must be guarded against when they have reached the exact point, at which further boiling would have a bad effect; as would be the case with some preserves, and other sweets. BROILING. Broiling is the best possible mode of cooking and of preserv- ing the flavour of several kinds of fish, amongst which we may specify mackerel and whitings ;* it is also incomparably superior to frying for steaks and cutlets, espe- cially of beef and mutton; and it is far better adapted, also, to the preparation of food for invalids; but it should be carefully done, for if the heat be too fierce, the outside of the meat will be scorched and hardened so as to render it uneatable; and if, on the con- * Salmon broiled in slices, is a favourite dish with eaters who like the full rich flavour of the tish preserved, as it is much more luscious (but less delicate) dressed thus than when it is boiled. The slices should be cut from an inch to aa A Conjurer.