584d APPENDIX, which should he quite small; gather up and tie the corners, and be careful that no part of it, or of the paper, reaches to the water; pour in from two to three inches depth of this, according to the height of the mould, and when it boils put in the pudding, and press the cover of the stewpan closely on; then simmer it gently without ceasing until it is done. This is the safer method of boiling all puddings made with polenta, or with the American flour of maize. MAIZE PUDDING.* (AN EXCELLENT SUBSTITUTE FOR POTATOES)* Put half a pint of the maize-meal into a bowl, add to it a saltspoonful of salt, cut about an ounce of butter (even less will suffice, or a bit of dripping wrhen it is not disliked), into half a pint of milk, and when it boils, take it from the fire, and add to it a quarter of a pint of cold milk, as it must be poured hot, but not boiling to the meal; then proceed to mix it with the maize; butter a pie or tart dish, which should not be very shallow; pour in the pudding, smooth the top, and bake it very slowly, in a Dutch or American oven for two hours, when, if properly managed, it will have become quite firm. If placed too near the fire at first the surface will harden, and the pud- ding will not bake as it ought. When it does not adhere to the knife if tried with the blade, it is done. PUDDING OF POLENTA, OB ITALIAN FLOUR OF MAIZE. Half a pound of polenta, a pint and a quarter of milk, an ounce of butter, and some salt and cayenne, managed and mixed exactly like the maize above, and gently baked before the fire from an hour and a quarter to an hour and a half, will make an excellent plain pudding sufficiently firm to be turned out of the dish in which it is baked before it is sent to table. SWEET PUDDING OF POLENTA. From half to a whole ounce of butter, three to four ounces of sugar, dissolved in the milk, the grated rind of a lemon, four ounces of Sultana raisins, and one of finely shred candied orange- rind, added to the foregoing receipt, will make a good sweet family pudding. For a very cheap one, two tablespoonsful of treacle, well worked up with the polenta before the milk is poured to it, and a little lemon-grate will be all sufficient, instead of the more expensive ingredients. Obs. Next to their perfect wholesomeness, the great recom- • This receipt is for the American maize-meat,