PICKLES, CHAP. XXII.] 509 pickle on them. The vinegar should be very pale, and their colour will then he exceedingly well preserved. Any favourite spices can be added to it. to pickle lemons, and limes. (Excellent.) Wipe eight fine sound lemons very clean, and make, at equal distances, four deep incisions in each, from the stalk to the blossom end, but without dividing the fruit; stuff them with as much salt as they will contain, lay them into a deep dish, and place them in a sunny window, or in some warm place for a week or ten days, keeping them often turned and basted with their own liquor; then rub them with some good pale turmeric, and put them with their juice, into a stone jar with a small head of garlic, divided into cloves and peeled, and a dozen small onions stuck with twice as many cloves. Boil in two quarts of white wine vinegar, half a pound of ginger slightly bruised, two ounces of whole black pepper, and half a pound of mustard- seed ; take them from the fire and pour them directly on the lemons; cover the jar with a plate, and let them remain until the following day, then add to the pickle half a dozen capsicums (or a few chilies, if more convenient), and tie a skin and a fold of thick paper over the jar. Large lemons stuffed with salt, 8: 8 to 10 days. Turmeric, 1 to 2 ozs.; ginger, £ lb.; mustard-seed, \ lb.; capsicums, 6 ozs. Obs.—The turmeric and garlic may, we think, be omitted from this pickle with advantage. It will remain good for seven years if the lemons be kept well covered with vinegar: that which is added to them should be boiled and then left till cold before it is poured into the jar. The lemons will not be fit for table in less than twelve months; bjit if wanted for more im- mediate use, set them for one night into a cool oven after the bread is drawn; they may then be eaten almost directly. Limes must have but slight incisions made in the rinds; and I they 'will be sufficiently softened in four or five days. Two | ounces of salt only will be required for half a dozen; and all I which remains unmelted must, with their juice, be put into the jar with them before the vinegar is poured on: this should be mixed 'with spice and mustard-seed, and be boiling when it is added to the limes. to pickle nasturtiums. I These should be gathered quite young, and a portion of the "buds, when very small, should be mixed with them. Prepare a pickle by dissolving an ounce and a half of salt in a quart of