MODERN COOKERY. 72 [CHAP. IT, Moderate sized, \ hour; large, 1 hour. Obs.—We must repeat that it is impossible to give for fish which varies so much in quality as well as in size, directions for the exact time which is required to cook it; a few minutes, more or less, must often be allowed; and it should always be watched attentively, and lifted from the water as soon as it is done. TO BAKE PIKE. (Common Receipt.) Pour warm water over the outside of the fish, and wipe it very clean with a coarse cloth drawn from the head downwards, that the scales may not be disturbed; then wash it well in cold water, empty, and clean the inside with the greatest nicety, fill it either with the common forcemeat, No. 1, or with No. 4, of Chapter VI., sew it up, fasten the tail to the mouth, give it a slight dredging of flour, stick small hits of butter thickly over it, and bake it from half to three quarters of an hour, should it be of moderate size, and upwards of an hour, if it be large. Should there not be sufficient sauce with it in the dish, plain melted butter, and a lemon, or anchovy sauce may be sent to '.able with it. When more convenient, the forcemeat may be omitted, and a little fine salt and cayenne, with some hits of butter, put into the inside of the fish, which will then require rather less baking. A buttered paper should always be laid over it in the oven, should the outside appear likely to become too highly coloured, or too dry, before the fish is done; and it is better to wrap quite small pike in buttered paper at once, be- fore they are sent to the oven. Moderate-sized pike, 30 to 45 minutes; large pike, 1 to 11 hour. TO BAKE PIKE. (Superior Receipt.) Scale and wash the fish, take out the gills, then open it just sufficiently to allow the inside to be emptied, and perfectly cleansed, but not more than is necessary for that purpose. Wipe it as dry as possible in every part, then hang it for an hour or two on a hook in a cool larder, or wrap it in a soft cloth. Fill the body with the forcemeat No. 1 or 3, or with the oyster forcemeat of Chapter VI.; sew it up very securely, curl it round, and fasten the tail into the mouth with a thin skewer, then dip it into the beaten yolks of two or more eggs, seasoned with nearly a half-teaspoonful of «alt and a little