CHAP. XX.] SWEET DISHES, OR ENTREMET8. 447 rises, and put it into glasses. These syllabubs will remain good for several days, and should always be made if possible, four and twenty hours before they are wanted for table. The full flavour of the lemon-rind is obtained with less trouble than in rasping, by paring it very thin indeed, and infusing it for some hours in the juice of the fruit. Sugar, 7 ozs.; rind and juice of lemons, 2; sherry, 2 large wineglassesful; brandy, 2 wineglassesful; cream, 1 pint. Obs—These proportions are sufficient for two dozens or more of syllabubs: they are often made with almost equal quantities of wine and cream, but are certainly neither so good nor so wholesome without a portion of brandy. BLAMANGES. GOOD COMMON BLAMANGE, OR BLANC MANGES* {Author s Receipt.) Infuse for an hour in a pint and three quarters of new milk the very thin rind of one - small, or of half a large lemon and eight .bitter almonds, blanched and bruised; then add two ounces of sugar, or rather more for persons who like the blamange Modem blamange or cake mould, very sweet, and an ounce and a half of isinglass. Boil them gently over a clear fire, stirring them often until this last is dissolved; take off the scum, stir in half a pint of rich cream, and strain the blamange into a bowl: it should be moved gently with a spoon until nearly cold to prevent the cream from settling on the surface. Before it is moulded, mix with it by degrees a wineglassful of brandy. New milk, If pint; rind of lemon, \ large or whole small 1; , bitter almonds, 8 ; infuse 1 hour. Sugar, 2 to 3 ozs.; isinglass, oz.: 10 minutes. Cream, \ pint; brandy, 1 wineglassful. RICHER BLAMANGE. A pint of good cream with a pint of new milk, sweetened and flavoured as above, or with a little additional sugar, and the rind of one very fresh lemon with the same proportion of isinglass will make very good blamange. A couple of ounces of Jordan almonds may be pounded and mixed with it, but they are not needed with the cream.