482 fCHAP. XXI. MODERN COOKERY. an equal weight of sugar at the ,candy height: hy making trial of the two methods, the reader can decide on the better one. FINE BLACK CURRANT JELLY. Stir some black currants over the fire until they have yielded their juice ; strain, weigh, and boil it for twenty minutes; add to it three pounds and a half of sifted sugar of good quality, made quite hot, and when it is dis- solved boil the jelly for five minutes only, clearing off the scum with care. This, though an excellent preserve, is too sweet for our own taste, and we think one made with less sugar likely to be more acceptable in cases of indisposition generally. Juice of black currants, 4 lbs.: 20 minutes. Sugar, 3J lbs.: 5 minutes. COMMON BLACK CURRANT JELLY. Boil from three to six pounds of the juice rapidly for twenty minutes, stirring it well; then mix with it off the fire, half a pound of sugar for each pound of juice, and continue the boil- ing for ten minutes. Juice of black currants, 3 to 6 lbs.: 20 minutes. To each pound juice h lb. good sugar: 10 minutes. Obs.—This jelly may be made with Lisbon sugar, but will then require rather more boiling. BLACK CURRANT JAM. To six pounds of the fruit, stripped carefully from the stalks, add four pounds and a half of sugar. Let them heat gently, but as soon as the sugar is dissolved boil the preserve rapidly for fifteen minutes. A more common kind of jam may be made by boiling the fruit by itself from ten to fifteen minutes, and for ten minutes after half its weight of sugar has been added to it. Black currants, 6 lbs.; sugar, 4£ lbs.: 15 minutes. Or: fruit, 6 lbs.: 10 to 15 minutes. Sugar, 3 lbs.: 10 minutes. Obs.—There are few preparations of fruit so refreshing and so useful in illness as those of black currants, and it is therefore advisable always to have a store of them, and to have them well and carefully made. NURSERY PRESERVE. Take the stones from a couple of pounds of Kentish cherries, and boil them twenty minutes; then add to them a pound and a half of raspberries, and an equal quantity of red and of