ciiap. ii.] PISH. 51 turbot into boiling water, and to prevent its breaking, tie it with a cloth tightly to the fish-plate; but cold water seems better adapted to it, as it is desirable that it should be gradually heated through before it begins to boiL TURBOT A LA CREME. Raise carefully from the bones the flesh of a cold turbot, and clear it from the dark skin; cut it into small squares, and put it into an exceedingly clean stewpan or saucepan; then make and pour upon it the cream-sauce of Chapter IV., or make as much as may be required for the fish by the same receipt, with equal proportions of milk and cream, and a little additional flour. Heat the turbot slowly in the sauce, but do not allow it to boil, and send it very hot to table. The white skin of the fish is not usually added to this dish, and it is of better appearance without it; but for a family dinner, it may be left on the flesh, when it is much liked. No acid must be stirred to the sauce until the whole is ready for table. TURBOT AU BECHAMEL, OR, IN BECHAMEL SAUCE. Prepare the cold turbot as for the preceding receipt, but leave no portion of the skin with it. Heat it in a rich bechamel sauce, and serve it in a vol-au-vent, or in a deep dish, with a border of fried bread cut in an elegant form, and made with one dark, and one light sippet, placed alternately. The surface may be covered with a half-inch layer of delicately fried bread-crumbs, perfectly well drained and dried; or they may be spread over the fish without being fried, then moistened with clarified butter, and browned with a salamander. TO BOIL A JOHN DORY. In best season from Michaelmas to Christmas, but good all the year. The John Dory, though of uninviting appearance is consi- dered by some persons as the most delicious fish that appears at table; in the general estimation, however, it ranks next to the turbot, from which it may be distinguished by its yellow- grey colour as well as by the long filaments on the back, and a general thickness of form. It is dressed in precisely the sama manner and served with the same sauces. • TO BOIL A BRILL. Proceed exactly as for a turbot; sprinkle lobster coral passed through a fine sieve, over the brill after it is dished, and send