530 *. J MODERN COOKERY. [CHAP. XXIII. A GALETTE. The galette is a favourite cake in France, and may be made rich, and comparatively delicate, or quite common, by using more or less butter for it, and by augmenting or diminishing the size. Work lightly three quarters of a pound of good butter into a pound of flour, add a large saltspoonful of salt, and make these into a paste with the yolks of a couple of eggs mixed witli a small cupful of good cream, should it be at hand; if not, with j water; roll this into a complete round, three quarters of an inch thick; score it in small diamonds, brush yolk of egg over the top, and bake the galette for about half an hour in a tolerably brisk oven: it is usually eaten hot, but is served cold also. An ounce of sifted sugar is sometimes added to it. A good galette: flour, 1 lb.; butter, f lb.; salt, 1 saltspoonful; yolks of eggs, 2; cream, small cupful: baked \ hour. Common galette: flour, 2 lbs.; butter, f to 1 lb.; no eggs. CORNISH HEAVY CAKE. Mix with a pound and a half of flour, ten ounces of well- cleaned currants, and a small teaspoonful of salt; make these into a smooth paste with clotted cream (any which is very thick will do), roll the cake until it is an inch and a quarter in depth, and bake it thoroughly in a quick oven, after having scored the top. Flour, li lb.; currants, 10 ozs.; salt, small teaspoonful; clotted, or very thick cream, f to full pint: 35 to 45 minutes, brisk oven. FLEED OR FLEAD CAKES. These are very much served as a tea-cake at the tables of the superior order of Kentish farmers. For the mode of making them, proceed as for flead-crust (see Chapter XVI.); cut the cakes small with a round cutter, and leave them more than half an inch thick: if well made they will rise much in the oven. Bake them rather quickly, but keep them pale. Flour, 2 lbs.; fiead, 1| lb.; butter, 6 ozs.: baked 10 to 15 minutes. * THREADNEEDLE STREET BISCUITS. Mix with a couple of pounds of sifted flour of the very best quality, three ounces of good butter, and work it into the smallest possible crumbs; add four ounces of fine, dry, sifted sugar, and make then into a firm paste with new milk: beat i