xxxviii CARVING. across, rather thick, and, as much as possible, in unbroken slices^ from a to b. The sound, which is considered a delicacy, lies underneath, and lines the back-bone : it must be reached with a spoon in the direction c. The middle of the fish, when served to a family party, may be carved in the same manner, or in any other which convenience and economy may dictate. No. 2. A TURBOT. In carving this most excellent fish, the rich gelatinous skin attached to it, and a portion of the thick part of the fins should be served with every slice. If the point of the fish-knife be drawn down the centre of the back through to the bone, in the line a b c, and from thence to d d d, the flesh may easily be raised upon the blade in handsome portions. The thickest parts of all flat fish are the best. A brill and a John Dory are served exactly like a turbot. There are some choice morsels about the head of the latter. SOLES. The more elegant mode of serving these, and the usual one at good tables, is to raise the flesh from the bones as from a turbot, which is easily done when the fish are large; but when they are too small well to admit of it, they must be divided across quite through the bone: the shoulders, and thick part of the body, are the superior portions. No. 3. SALMON. It is customary to serve a slice of the thick part of the back of this fish, which is marked from a to 6, with one of the thinner and richer portions of it, shown by the line, from c to d. It should be carved quite straight across, and the fine flakes of the flesh should be preserved as entire as possible. Salmon-peel, pike, haddocks, large whitings, and all fish which are served curled round, and with* the backs uppermost, are carved in the same manner; the flesh is separated from the bone in the centre of the back, and taken off, on the outer side first, in convenient portions for serving. The flesh of mackerel is best raised from < the bones by passing the fish-slice from the tail to the head: it ' may then be divided in two. No. 4. SADDLE OP MUTTON. This joint is now trussed for roasting in the manner shown in the engraving; and when it is dished a silver skewer replaces