584a First, fry gently in a morsel of butter a moderate-sized onion = APPENDIX IL CURRIED SOLES. sliced thin, and when it is well browned lift it on to a sieve reversed, to drain; then lay it into the stewpan in which the currie is to be made; next, mix about three dessertspoonsful of good currie powder with a teaspoonful of salt and a large table- spoonful of flour; raise the flesh in fillets from a couple of quite large soles, or take the heads and tails from two or three small ones, and divide each fish once or twice without boning it; rub half the powder on the soles, and fry them quickly and lightly; then place them upon the onion, pour a little boiling water or broth into the pan, give it a shake, and a minute’s boil, add it to the fish, and when it begins to simmer, stir in the remainder of the powder, very smoothly mixed with a few spoonsful of cold broth or water. Stew the currie softly from fifteen to twenty minutes ; throw in a spoonful of lemon-juice or Chili-vinegar; and serve it as hot as possible. Onion, 1; flesh of soles, 2 large; (or small soles unboned 3 or 4;) currie powder, 3 dessertspoonsful; salt, 1 small teaspoonful; flour, 1 tablespoonful; water or broth, \ to £ pint; lemon-juice or chili-vinegar, 1 to 2 dessertspoonsful: 15 to 20 minutes. Obs. 1. We have been favoured since the third edition of the present work was published, with some very obliging remarks on curries by Dr. Dickson of Curzon Street, who says, that to all curries a proportion of mushroom-powder should be added; and that this may be obtained of Butler, herbalist, Covent Gar- den, at the very moderate price of sixpence per ounce. We much regret that our want of space precludes for the present the insertion of the remainder of his observations. Obs. 2. We have made trial of a large variety of currie powders, and found many of them good; but we think that sold by Cooke and Co., 24, Princes Street, Cavendish Square, the most likely, perhaps, to meet with general approval. Selim’s currie paste, also, when genuine, answers well; but not unless it be subjected to the action of the hot butter before any liquid is added to it. When simply diluted, and stirred into boiling gravy, it is not so agreeable as the powder above named. TO POACH EGGS. Take for this purpose a wide and delicately clean pan about half-filled with the clearest spring-water; throw in a table-