257 POULTRY. CHAP. XII.] chestnut sauce, or a dish of stewed chestnuts, may be sent to table with the turkey. 1$ to 21 hours. Obs.—A turkey should be laid at first far from the fire, and drawn nearer when half done, though never sufficiently so to scorch it; it should be well roasted, for even the most inveterate advocates of under-dressed meats will seldom tolerate the taste or sight of partially-raw poultry. head and neck, cut through the skin round the first joint Turkey for Boilin?- of the legs, and draw them off: this is best accomplished by fastening the feet to a strong hook, and then pulling the bird away from it. Wash it exceedingly clean, and then wipe it dry, fill the breast with the forcemeat No. 1 or 2 of Chapter VI., or with the oyster, chestnut, or French forcemeat, of which the receipts are given in the sime chapter. In trussing it draw the legs into the body, break tne breast-bone, and give the turkey as round and plump an appearance as can be. Put it into plenty of warm water, clear off the scum with the greatest care as it is thrown to the surface, and boil the bird very gently from an hour and a half to two hours and a quarter. A very large turkey would require a longer time, but it is unsuited to this mode of cooking. When the oyster-forcemeat is used, a large tureen of rich oyster sauce should accompany the dish; but celery sauce, or good white sauce, may otherwise be sent to table with it; and a boiled tongue or a small ham is usually served in addition. For a plain family dinner, a delicate cheek of bacon is sometimes substituted for either of these, and parsley and butter for a more expensive sauce. Fast boiling will cause the skin of the bird to break, and must therefore be especially avoided: it should hang for some days before it is dressed, for if quite freshly killed it will not be tender, but it must be perfectly sweet to be fit for table. Moderate-sized turkey, 1 £ to 2 hours; large turkey, longer; very small cue, less time. TO BOIL A TURKEY. A delicate but plump hen- turkey of moderate size should be selected for boiling. Pick and draw it, using the greatest precaution not to break the gall bladder ; singe it with writing paper, take off the 8