SAUCES. CHA-P. IV.] 125 pint of good broth or beef gravy, with a seasoning of pepper or cayenne. Celery, 3 to 5 heads: 20 minutes. Veal broth, or gravy, \ pint: 20 to 40 minutes. Butter, 1£ oz.: flour, 1 dessertspoon- ful ; cream, | pint, or three yolks of eggs. WHITE CHESTNUT SAUCE. Strip the outer rind from six ounces of sound, sweet chestnuts, then throw them into boiling water, and let them simmer fbr two or three minutes, when the second skin will easily peel off, Add to them three quarters of a pint of good cold veal gravy, and a few strips of lemon peel, and let them stew gently for an hour and a quarter. Press them, with the gravy, through a hair-sieve reversed, and placed over a deep dish or pan, as they are much more easily rubbed through thus than in the usual way: a wooden spoon should be used in preference to any other for the process. Add a little cayenne and mace, some salt if needed, and about six tablespoonsful of rich cream. Keep the sauce stirred until it boils, and serve it immediately. Chestnuts without their rinds, 6 ozs.; veal gravy, f pint; rind of | lemon : 1£ hour. Salt; spice; cream, 6 tablespoons- ful. Obs.—This sauce may be served with turkey, with fowls, or with veal-cutlets stewed. BROWN CHESTNUT SAUCE. Substitute rich brown gravy for the veal stock, omit the lemon-rind and cream, heighten the seasonings, and mix the chestnuts with a few spoonsful of Espagnole or highly flavoured gravy after they have been passed through the sieve. SWEET PUDDING SAUCE. Boil together for fifteen minutes the thin rind of half a small lemon, an ounce and a half of fine sugar, and a wineglassful of water; then take out the lemon-peel, and mix very smoothly an ounce of butter with rather more than a half-teaspoonful of flour, stir them round in the sauce until it has boiled one minute; next add a wineglassful and a half of sherry or Madeira, or two thirds of that quantity and a quarter-glass of brandy: when quite hot, serve the sauce. Port-wine sauce is made in the same way, with the addition of a dessertspoonful of lemon-juice, some grated nutmeg, and a little more sugar : orange rind and juice may be used to give it flavour when preferred to lemon.