13 CHAP. I.] 60UP3. any portion of ham is boiled ; allowance should also be made for its reduction, in case of its being required for gravy. THE LORD mayor’s SOUP. Wash thoroughly two sets of moderate-sized pigs’ ears and feet, from which the hair has been carefully removed; add to them five quarts of cold water, and stew them very gently, with a faggot of savoury herbs, and one large onion stuck with a a dozen cloves, for nearly four hours, when the ears may be lifted out; stew the feet for another hour, then take them up, strain the soup, and set it in a cool place that it may become cold enough for the fat to be quite cleared from.it. Next, bone the ears and feet, cut the flesh down into dice, throw a clean folded cloth over it, and leave it so until the soup requires to be prepared for table; then strew upon it two tablespoonsful of savoury herbs minced small, half a saltspoonful of cayenne, a little white pepper, and some salt. Put into a large saucepan half a pound of good butter, and when it begins to simmer thicken it gradually with as much flour as it will absorb ; keep these stirred over a very gentle fire for ten minutes or more, but do not allow them to take the slightest colour; pour the soup to them by degrees, letting it boil up after each portion is added; put in the meat, and half a pint of sherry, simmer the whole from three to five minutes; dish the soup, and slip into it two or three dozens of delicately fried forcemeat-balls. (See Chapter VI.) Pigs’ feet, 8 ; ears, 4; water, 5 quarts; bunch savoury herbs; 1 large onion; cloves, 12: 3£ to 4 hours, feet, 1 hour more. Butter, £ lb ; flour, 6 ozs.* : 10 to 12 minutes. Minced herbs, 2 tablespoonsful; cayenne and common pepper, each £ salt- spoonful ; salt, 3 teaspoonful or more; sherry, £ pint: 3 to 5 minutes. Forcemeat-balls, 2 to 3 dozens. Obs.—We have given this receipt with the slightest possible variation from the original, which we derived from a neighbour- hood where the soup made by it was extremely popular. We have better adapted it to our own taste by the following altera- tions. THE LORD mayor’s SOUP. (Author’s Receipt.') We prefer to have this soup made, in part, the evening before it is wanted. Add the same pioportion of water to the ears and • The safer plan for an inexperienced cook, is to weigh the dour, and then to Bprinkle it from a dredging-box into the butter.