SOUPS. CHAP. I.] 11 stew it for a shorter time in the soup; the quantity, also, must be reduced quite two ounces, to suit modern taste. Bouillon, or gravy-soup, 3 quarts; vermicelli, 6 ozs.; 30 minutes. Or, soup, 3 quarts; vermicelli, 4 ozs.; blanched in boiling water 5 minutes; stewed in soup 10 to 15 minutes. SEMOULINA SOUP. (Soupe a la Semoule.') Semoulina is used in the same way as the vermicelli should be dropped very lightly and by degrees into the boili soup, which should be stirred all the time it is being added, an very frequently afterwards; indeed, it should scarcely be quitted for a moment until it is ready for table. Skim it carefully, and let it simmer from twenty to five and twenty minutes. This, when the semoulina can be procured good and fresh, is, to our taste, an excellent soup. Soup, 3 quarts; semoulina 6 ozs,: nearly, or quite 25 minutes. MACCARONI SOUP. Throw four ounces of fine fresh* mellow maccaroni into a pan of fast-boiling water, with about an ounce of fresh butter, and a small onion stuck with three or four cloves.f When it has swelled to its full size, and become tender, drain it well, and slip it into a couple of quarts of clear gravy-soup; let it simmer for a few minutes, when it will be ready for table. Observe, that the maccaroni should be boiled quite tender; but it should by no means be allowed to burst, nor to become pulpy. Serve grated Parmesan cheese with it. Maccaroni, 4 ozs.; butter, 1 oz.; 1 small onion; 5 cloves: f hour, or more. In soup, 5 to 10 minutes. Obs.—The maccaroni for soups should always be either broken into short lengths before it is boiled, or sliced quickly afterwards into small rings not more than the sixth of an inch thick, unless the cut maccaroni, which may be purchased at the Italian warehouses, be used; this requires but ten minutes' boiling, and should be dropped into the soup in the same way as vermicelli. Four ounces of it will be sufficient for two quarts of stock. It may be added to white soup after having been pre- viously boiled in water or veal-broth, and well drained from it * • We must here repeat our warning against the use of long-kept maccaroni, yfermicelli, or semoulina; as, when stale, they will rerj&et any dish into which they are introduced quite unfit for table. ♦ For White Soups omit the onion.