CHAP. XVII.] 375 BOILED PUDDINGS. HER MAJESTY’S PUDDING. Infuse in a pint of neAV milk half a pod of vanilla, cut into short lengths, and bruised; simmer them gently together for twenty minutes, and strain the milk through muslin to half a pint of cream; put these again on the fire in a clean saucepan, with three ounces of fine sugar, and pour them, when they boil, to the beaten yolk's of eight very fresh eggs. Stir the mixture often until it is nearly or quite cold, and boil it as gently as possible for an hour in a well-buttered mould or basin that will just hold it. Let it stand for four minutes at least before it is turned out; dish it carefully, strew, and garnish it thickly with branches of preserved barberries, or send it to table with a rich syrup of fresh fruit, or with clear fruit-jelly, melted. We have had often a compote (see Sweet Dishes) of currants, cherries, or plums served, and greatly relished with this pudding, which we can recommend to our readers as an extremely delicate one. The flavouring may be varied with bitter almonds, lemon-rind, noyeau, or aught else which may be better liked than the vanilla. New milk, 1 pint; vanilla, £ pod: 20 minutes. Cream, £ pint; sugar, 3 ozs.; yolks of eggs, 8 : 1 hour. Obs.—The cook must be reminded that unless the eggs be stirred briskly as the boiling milk is gradually poured to them, they will be likely to curdle. A buttered paper should always be put over the basin before the cloth is tied on, for all custard puddings. SMALL CUSTARD PUDDING. (Aldeburgh White Lion Receipt.') Dissolve in half a pint of new milk a dessertspoonful of pounded sugar, and pour it to three well-beaten eggs; strain the mixture into a buttered basin, which should be full: lay a half sheet of buttered writing paper, and then a floured cloth over it, and tie them tightly on; boil the pudding gently for twenty-five minutes, and let it stand four or five more before it is turned out, that it may not spread in the dish. Serve it with wine sauce. New milk, \ pint; sugar, 1 dessertspoonful; fresh eggs, 3: 25 minutes. COMMON CUSTARD PUDDING. Whisk three eggs well, put them into a pint basin, and add to them sufficient milk to fill it; then strain, flavour, and sweetea