MODERN COOKERY, [chap. IX. 200 degree of firmness. This receipt is for a head without the skin. BURLINGTON WHIMSEY. Set aside until quite cold half a calf’s head dressed by the preceding receipt. If, on cutting it, the gelatinous part should not appear perfectly tender, pare it off closely from the head, weigh, and mince it; put it into a pint of good gravy, and stew it gently from ten to fifteen minutes. Mince as much more of the head as will make up a pound in weight after the edges are trimmed off, and part of the fat is taken away; add to this three ounces of the lean of a boiled ham finely chopped, the grated rind of a large lemon, three teaspoonsful of parsley and one of thyme shred very small, three quarters of a teaspoonful of mace, half a small nutmeg grated, a teaspoonful of salt, and a half- quarter one of cayenne; stir the whole well together, and put it, with half a pint more of gravy, to the portion which has been already simmered. When the whimsey has boiled softly from four to five minutes, pour it into moulds or pans, in which slices of the tongue have been evenly arranged, and when quite cold it will turn out very firmly. It may be garnished, before it is sent to table, with branches of parsley, Avhich should, how- ever, be perfectly dry ; and when served for supper or luncheon, it may be accompanied by salad sauce. Calf’s head, 1 lb.; lean of ham, 3 ozs.; gravy, 1 \ pint; rind of 1 large lemon ; parsley, 3 teaspoonsful; thyme and salt, each 1 teaspoonful; mace, f teaspoonful; { nutmeg; cayenne, i part of teaspoonful: 5 minutes. Obs.—The remains of a plain boiled head may be made to serve for this dish, provided the gravy used with it be well jellied and of high flavour. Slices from the small end of a boiled and smoked ox-tongue, from their bright colour improve greatly its appearance. It should be tasted before it is poured out, that salt or any other seasoning may be added if needful. After three or four days’ keeping, should any mould appear upon the surface, take it off, re-melt the whimsey, and give it two minutes’ boil. For change, the herbs may be omitted, and the quantity of ham increased, or some minced tongue sub- stituted for it. CUTLETS OP calf’s HEAD. Prepare, by The Cook’s Receipt, half a calf’s head with or without the skin on; only, in the latter case, allow more tune for the boiling. When it is quite cold, remove the fillets of tape,