132 MODERN COOKERY. [chap. V. CHETNEY SAUCE. (.Bengal Receipt.') Stone four ounces of good raisins, and chop them small, with half a pound of crabs, sour apples, unripe bullaces, or of any other hard acid fruit. Take four ounces of coarse brown sugar, two of powdered ginger, and the same quantity of salt and cayenne pepper; grind these ingredients separately in a mortar, as fine as possible; then pound the fruits well, and mix the spices with them, one by one; beat them together until they are perfectly blended, and add gradually as much vinegar as will make the sauce of the consistency of thick cream. Put it into a bottle with an ounce of garlic, divided into cloves, and cork it tightly. Stoned raisins, 4 ozs.; crabs, or other acid fruit, 1 lb.; coarse sugar, 4 ozs.; powdered ginger, 2 ozs.; salt, 2 ozs.; cayenne-pepper, 2 ozs.; garlic, Garlic. l oz.; vinegar, enough to dilute it properly. Obs.—This favourite oriental sauce is compounded in a great variety of ways ; but some kind of acid fruit is essential to it. The mango is used in India; here the bullaces in an unripe state answer very well. Gooseberries also, while still hard and green, are sometimes used for it; and ripe red chilies and tomatas are mixed writh the other ingredients. The sauce keeps, better if it be exposed to a gentle degree of heat for a week or two, either by the side of the fire, or in a full southern aspect in the sun. In this case it must be put into a jar or bottles, and well secured from the air. Half a pound of gooseberries, or of these and tamarinds from the shell, and green apples mixed, and the same weight of salt, stoned raisins, brown sugar, powdered" ginger, chilies, and garlic, with a pint and a half of vinegar, and the juice of three large lemons, will make another genuine Bengal chetney. MUSHROOM CATSUP. Cut the ends of the stalks from two gallons of freshly-gathered mushroms (the large flaps are best for this purpose, but they should not be worm-eaten) ; break them into a deep earthen pan, and strew amongst them three quarters of a pound of salt, reserving the larger portion of it for the top. Let them stand for three, or even four days, and stir them gently once every -or and twenty hours; then drain off the liquor without