CHAP. I.] 29 SOUPS. down (with vegetables, &c.) till reduced nearly half. Boned half-head with skin on stewed in stock, 1^ hour. Soup: stock, 5 pints; tongue, skin of head, and part of flesh : 15 to 40 minutes, or more if not quite tender. Rice-flour, 6 to 8 ozs.; cayenne, quarter-teaspoonful; mace, twice as much ; mushroom catsup, £ wineglassful: 10 minutes. Sherry, 2 wineglassesful, forcemeat-balls, 20 to 30. POTAGE A LA EEINE. Should there be no strong veal broth, nor any white stock in readiness, stew four pounds of the scrag or knuckle of veal, with a thick slice or two of lean ham, a faggot of sweet herbs, two moderate-sized carrots, and the same of onions, a large blade of mace, and a half-teaspoonful of white peppercorns, in four quarts of water until reduced to about five pints; then strain the liquor, and set it by until the fat can be taken entirely from it. Skin, and wash thoroughly, a couple of fine fowls, or three young pullets, and take away the dark spongy substance which adheres to the insides; pour the veal broth to them, and boil them gently from three quarters of an hour to an hour ; then lift them out, take off all the white flesh, mince it small, pound it to the finest paste, and cover it with a basin till wanted for use. In the mean time let the bodies of the fowls be put again into the stock, and stewed gently for an hour and a half; add as much salt and cayenne as will season the soup properly, strain it off when sufficiently boiled, and let it cool; skim off every particle of fat; steep, in a small portion of it, which should be boiling, four ounces of the crumb of light stale bread, sliced thin, and when it has simmered a few minutes, drain or wring the moisture from it in a clean cloth, add it to the flesh of the chickens, and pound them together until they are perfectly blended; then pour the stock to them in very small quantities at first, and mix them smoothly with it; pass the whole through a sieve or tammy, heat it in a clean stewpan, stir to it from a pint to a pint and a half of boiling cream, and add, should it not be sufficiently thick, an ounce and a half of arrow-root, quite free from lumps, and moistened with a few spoonsful of cold milk or stock. For stock: veal, 4 lbs.; ham, 6 ozs.; water, 4 quarts; bunch of herbs; carrots, 2; onions, 2; mace, large blade; pepper- corns, £ teaspoonful; salt: 5 hours. Fowls, 2, or pullets, 3; f to 1 hour; stewed afterwards 1 to l2l hour. Crumb of bread, 4 ozs.; cream, 1 to 1£ pint; arrow-root (if needed), 1£ oz.