VEGETABLES. CHAP. XV.] 521 Meadow mushrooms, 3 pints, fresh butter, 4| ozs.: 3 to 5 minutes. Salt, 1 small teaspoonful; mace, half as much ; ca- yenne, third of saltspoonful: 10 to 15 minutes. More spices to be added, if required—much depending on their quality; but they should not overpower the flavour of the mushrooms. Obs.—Persons inhabiting parts of the country where mush- rooms are abundant, may send them easily, when thus pre- pared (or when potted by the following receipt), to their friends in cities, or in less productive counties. If poured into jars, with sufficient butter to cover them, they will travel any distance, and can be rewarmed for use. POTTED MUSHROOMS. Prepare either small flaps or buttons with great nicety, without wetting them, and wipe the former very dry, after the application of the salt and flannel. Stew them quite tender, with the same proportion of butter as the mushrooms au beurre, but increase a little the quantity of spice; when they are done turn them into a large dish, spread them over one end of it, and raise it two or three inches that they may be well drained from the butter. As soon as they are quite cold, press them very closely into small potting-pans; pour lukewarm clarified butter thickly over them, and store them in a cool dry place. If intended for present use, merely turn them down upon a clean shelf; but for longer keeping, cover the tops first with very dry paper, and then with melted mutton-suet. We have ourselves had the mushrooms, after being simply spread upon a dish while hot, remain perfectly good in that state for seven or eight weeks: they were prepared late in the season, and the weather was consequently cool during the interval. MUSHROOM-TOAST, OR CROUTE AUX CHAMPIGNONS. (Excellent.) Cut the stems closely from a quart, or more, of small just- opened mushrooms, peel them, and take out the fur. Dissolve from two to three ounces of fresh butter in a well-tinned saucepan or stewpan: put in the mushrooms, strew over them a quarter-teaspoonful of pounded mace mixed with a little cayenne, and let them stew over a gentle fire from ten to fifteen minutes; toss or stir tnem often during the time; then add a small dessertspoonful of flour, and shake the pan round until it i* lightly broAvned. Next pour in, by slow degrees, half a pint of gravy or of good beef-broth ; and when the mushrooms haA'e stewed softly in this for a couple of minutes, throw in a littie Y