CHAP. XII,] 265 POULTRY. two of cream, are added; continue to shake the pan gently above the fire till the sauce is just set, but it must not be al- lowed to boil, or it will curdle in an instant. i to f hour. CHICKEN CUTLETS. (ENTREE.) Skin, and cut into joints, one or two young chickens, and re- move the bones with care from the breasts, merrythoughts, and thighs, which are to be separated from the legs. Mix well together a teaspoonful of salt, and nearly a fourth as much of mace, a little grated nutmeg, and cayenne; flatten, and form into good shape, the boned joints of chicken, and the flesh of the wings; rub a little of the seasoning over them in every part, dip them into beaten egg, and then into very fine bread-crumbs, and fry them gently in fresh butter until they are of a delicate brown. Some of the bones and trimmings may be boiled down in half a pint of water, with a roll of lemon-peel, a little salt, and eight or ten white peppercorns, to make the gravy, which, after being strained and cleared from fat, may be poured hot to some thickening made in the pan with a slice of fresh butter and a dessertspoonful of flour: a teaspoonful of mushroom-powder would improve it greatly, and a small quantity of lemon-pickle or juice should be added before it is poured out, with salt and cayenne if required. Pile the cutlets high in the middle of the dish, and serve the sauce under them, or in a tureen. CUTLETS OP FOWLS, PARTRIDGES, OR PIGEONS. (ENTREE.) (French Receipt.') Take closely off the flesh of the breast and wing together, on either side of the bone, and when you have thus raised the large fillets, as they are called, from three birds, which will give you but six cutlets, take the strips of flesh that lie under the wings, and that of the merrythoughts, and flatten two or three of these together, that you may have nine cutlets at least, of equal size. When all are ready, fry to a pale brown as many diamond- shaped sippets of bread as there are fillets of fowl, and let them be Suite as large; place these before the fire to dry, and wipe out he pan. Dip the cutlets into some yolks of eggs mixed with a little clarified butter, and strew them in every part with the finest bread-crumbs, moderately seasoned with salt, cayenne, and pounded mace. Dissolve as much good butter as will be required to dress them, and fry them in it of a light amber- colour : arrange them upon the sippets of bread, pile them high