526 MQPERN COOKERY. [CHAP. XXIII. oven from twenty to thirty minutes. If well made, they will be very crisp and good. Pounded chestnuts, 12 ozs.; flour, 8 ozs.; sugar, 6 ozs.; eggs, 2: 20 to 30 minutes, slow oven. ISLE OF WIGHT DOUGH-NUTS. ^ Work smoothly together with the fingers four ounces of good lard, and four pounds of flour; add half a pound of fine brown sugar, t^wo tablespoonsful of allspice, one drachm of pounded cinnamon, half as much of cloves, two large blades of mace, beaten to powder, two tablespoonsM of fresh yeast which has been watered for one night, and which should be solid, and as much new milk as will make the whole into a rather firm dough; let this stand from an hour to an hour and a half near the fire, then knead it well, and make it into balls about the size of a small apple; hollow them with the thumb, and enclose a few currants in the middle; gather the paste well over them, and throw the dough-nuts into a saucepan half filled with boiling lard; when they are equally coloured to a fine brown, lift them out and dry them before the fire on the back of a sieve. When they are made in large quantities, as they are at certain seasons in the islflnd,- they are drained upon very clean straw. The lard should boil only just before they are dropped into it, or the outsides will be scorched before the insides are sufficiently done. Flour, 4 lbs.; lard, 4 ozs.; sugar, l lb.; allspice, 2 table- spoonsful; pounded cinnamon, 1 drachm; cloves and mace, each \ drachm; yeast (solid), two large tablespoonsful: to rise, 1 to 1£ hour. Currants, at choice: dough-nuts boiled in lard, 5 to 7 minutes. CINNAMON, OR LEMON CAKES. Rub six ounces of good butter into a pound of fine dry flour, and work it lightly into crumbs; then add three quarters of a pound of sifted sugar, a dessertspoonful of pounded cinnamon (or half as much when only a slight flavour is liked), and make these ingredients into a firm paste with three eggs, or four, if needed. Roll it, not very thin, and cut out the cakes with a tin shape. Bake them in a very gentle oven from fifteen to twenty minutes, or longer, should they not be done quite through. As soon as they are cold, put them into a clean and dry tin canister, a precaution which should be observed with all small sugar cakes, which ought also to be loosened from the oven-tins while they are still warm.