PRESERVES. 501 CHAP. XXI.2 ORANGE CONSERVE FOB PUDDINGS. Wash and then soak in plenty of spring water for three days, changing it night and morning, half a dozen Seville oranges; then boil them until they are sufficiently tender for the head of a pin to pierce them easily; drain and weigh them, and for each pound take, and reduce to fine powder, two pounds of good sugar. Cut the oranges asunder, and remove the pips and the coarse loose skin of the cores; then beat them, with the sugar, in a large mortar, and pick out, as this is done, any bits of fibre or coarse inner skin which cannot be reduced to a paste. When the whole forms a smooth conserve, put it into small jars for use, as it requires no boiling after the fruit and sugar are mixed: if stored in a dry place it will remain good for two years. Each orange should be tied in a thin small cloth or a bit of muslin when it is boiled, and the water should be changed once (or even twice when the fine aromatic bitter of the rind is altogether objected to), or the fruit may be lifted from the water and thrown immediately into another pan containing more which is ready boiling. Two tablespoonsful of this con- serve, with the yolks of five or six eggs, a couple of ounces of sugar, and as much clarified butter smoothly mixed and well beaten together, will make good cheesecakes, or an excellent but not large pudding: the same proportion will be found an agreeable addition to a plum pudding also. Seville oranges, boiled tender, 2 lbs.; sugar, 4 lbs.; beaten together, not boiled. DEMON CONSERVE. This is made like the conserve which precedes it, but does not require quite so large a proportion of sugar. Choose for it some fine fresh lemons, wipe, and weigh them; and for each pound allow a pound and a half of sugar. Throw them into boiling water, and when they are quite soft, which will be in something more or less than an hour, lift them out, drain them a little, cut them in halves, and take out the pips; then pound them to a very smooth paste, removing, as this is done, the coarse skin and fibres; mix the sugar perfectly with them in the mortar, and store the conserve in small jars. Lemons, 2 lbs.; boiled f to 1 hour or more. Sugar, 3 lbs. Obs.—The fruit requires no previous soaking before it is boiled for this preserve; nor is it necessary to change the water, nor to tie the lemons in muslin.