179 CHAP. VIII.] BEEF. In France, half or the whole of a calf s foot is stewed with the beef, which is there generally larded through with thick strips of fat bacon. (For larding, see page 166.) Veal dressed in this way is even better than beef. The stewpan used for either should be as nearly of the size of the meat as possible. Beef, 7 to 8 lbs.: 4 to 5 hours. STEWED SIRLOIN OF BEEF. As a matter of convenience we have occasionally had this joint stewed instead of roasted, and have found it excellent Cut out the inside or fillet as entire as possible, and reserve it for a separate dish; then remove the bones with care, or let the butcher do this for you; spread the meat flat on a table and cover the inside with thin slices of striped bacon, after having first strewed over it a mixed seasoning of a small teaspoonful of 6alt, half as much mace or nutmeg, and a moderate quantity of pepper or cayenne. Roll and bind the meat firmly, lay it into a stewpan or thick iron saucepan nearly of its size, and add the bones and as much good beef broth as 'will nearly cover the joint. Should this not be at hand, put a few slices of lean ham or bacon under the beef, and lay round it three pounds of neck or knuckle of veal, or of stewing beef, divided into several parts; then pour to it cold water instead of broth. In either case, so soon as it has boiled a few minutes and been well cleaned from scum, throw in a large faggot of savoury herbs, three or four carrots, as many leeks, or a large onion, stuck with a dozen cloves; and, an hour later, two blades of mace, and half a teaspoonfnl of peppercorns. Stew the beef very gently indeed from four to five hours, and longer, should the joint be large: serve it with a good Espagnole, sauce piquante, or brown caper sauce. Add what salt may be needed before the vegetables are thrown in; and, after the meat is lifted out, boil down to soup or gravy the liquor in which it has been stewed. To many tastes it would be an improvement to flour and brown the outside of the beef in butter before the broth or water is poured to it: it may also be stewed (but somewhat longer) half-covered with rich gravy, and turned when partially done. Minced eschalots may be strewed over the inside before it is rolled, when their strong, savour is relished, or veal force- meat may supply their place. TO STEW A RUMP OF BEEF. This joint is more easily carved, and is of better appearance when the bones are removed before it is dressed. Roll and