381 BOILED PUDDINGS. ciiap. xvii.3 These proportions will make three puddings of good size, each of which should be boiled six hours. Bread-crumbs, 1 lb.; flour, 1 lb.; suet, 2 lbs.; currants, 2 lbs.; raisins, 2 lbs.; sugar, 1 lb.; candied peel, £ lb.; rinds of lemons, 2; nutmegs, 1; mixed spice, £ oz.; salt, % teaspoonsful; eggs, 16 ; brandy, 4 glassesful: 6 hours. Obs.—A fourth part of the ingredients given above, will make a pudding of sufficient size for a small party: to render this very rich, half the flour and bread-crumbs may be omitted, and a few spoonsful of apricot marmalade well blended with the remainder of the mixture.* COTTAGE CHRISTMAS PUDDING. A pound and a quarter of flour, fourteen ounces of suet, a pound and a quarter of stoned raisins, four ounces of currants, five of sugar, a quarter-pound of potatoes smoothly mashed, half a nutmeg, a quarter-teaspoonful of ginger, the same of salt, and of cloves in powder: mix these ingredients thoroughly, add four well* beaten eggs with a quarter-pint of milk, tie the pudding in a well-floured cloth, and boil it for four hours. Flour, lj lb.; suet, 14 ozs.; raisins stoned, 20 ozs.; currants, 4 ozs.; sugar, 5 ozs.; potatoes, £ lb.; \ nutmeg; ginger, salt, cloves, 5 teaspoonful each; eggs, 4; milk, £ pint: 4 hours. SMALL LIGHT PLUM PUDDING. Put half a pint of fine bread-crumbs into a basin, and poui on them a quarter-pint of boiling milk; put a plate over, and let them soak for half an hour; then mix with them half a pint of suet chopped extremely small, rather more of stoned raisins, three teaspoonsful of sugar, one of flour, three eggs, a tiny pinch of salt, and sufficient grated lemon-peel or nutmeg to flavour it lightly. Tie the pudding in a well-floured cloth, and boil it for two hours. Bread-crumbs, £ pint; milk, } pint; suet, \ pint; raisins, nearly f pint; sugar, 3 teaspoonful, and 1 of flour; eggs, 3; little salt nutmeg: 2 hours. ANOTHER PUDDING, LIGHT AND WHOLESbME.f With three ounces of the crumb of a stale loaf finely grated * Rather less liquid will be required to moisten the pudding when this is dona and four hours and a quarter will boil it. t Both this, and the preceding pudding, will be found very delicate, and well suited to invalids.