CARVING. xxxix the one marked e. It is likewise often still served in good families with only two or three joints of the tail left on. The most usual mode of carving it is in thin slices cut quite along the bone, on either side, in the line a to b; but at simple dinners it is some- times sliced obliquely from c to d: this last fashion is rather gaining ground. The thick end of the joint must then, of course, be to the left of the carver. A saddle of pork or of lamb is carved in exactly the same manner. No. 5. A HAUNCH OF VENISON (OR MUTTON). An incision must first be made entirely across the knuckle end of this joint, quite down to the bone, in the line a 6, to let the gravy escape; it must then be carved in thin slices taken as deep as they can be, the whole length of the haunch, from c to d. A portion of the fat should invariably be served with the venison. No. 6. SIRLOIN OF BEEF. As the very tender part, of this favourite joint, which lies under the bone, and is called the fillet, is preferred by many eaters, the beef should be raised, and some slices be taken from it in the direction a 6, before the carver proceeds further. The slices should be cut quite across the joint, from side to side, as indicated by the line from c to rf, in which direction the whole of the meat is occasionally carved, though it is much more usual to slice the upper part from e to /. When the brown outside has been taken off this, it should be evenly carved in thin slices, and served with some of the gravy in the dish, and accompanied with horse-radish very lightly and finely scraped, with tufts of which the beef is commonly garnished. RIBS OF BEEF Are carved in the same manner as the sirloin; but there is no fillet attached to them. A ROUND OF BEEF. To carve this well, a very sharp-edged and thin-bladed knife is requisite. A thick slice should first be taken entirely off the top of the joint, leaving it very smooth; it should then be cut as thin and as evenly as possible, and delicate slices of the lat or uddel should be served with the lean. A BRISKET OF BEEF Is carved in slices quite across the bones.