CnAP. Till. ] BEEP. 195 BAKED MINCED BEEP. Mince tolerably fine, with a moderate proportion of its own fat, as much of the inside of a cold roast joint as will suffice for a dish : that which is least done is best for the purpose. Sea- son it rather highly with cayenne and mace, or nutmeg, and moderately with salt; add, when they are liked, one or two eschalots, minced small, with a few chopped mushrooms, either fresh or pickled, or two tablespoonsfnl of mushroom cat- sup. Moisten the whole, mixing it well, with a cupful of good gravy, and put it into a deep dish. Place on the top an inch- thick layer of bread-crumbs; moisten these plentifully with clarified butter, passed through a small strainer over them, and send the mince to a slow oven for twenty minutes, or brown it in a Dutch oven. SAUNDERS. Spread on the dish in which the saunders are to be served, a layer of smoothly mashed potatoes, which have been seasoned with salt and mixed with about an ounce of butter to the pound. On these spread equally and thickly some underdressed beef or mutton, minced, and mixed with a little of the gravy that has run from the joint, or with a few spoonsful of any other; some salt, pepper, and a small quantity of nutmeg. Place evenly over this another layer of potatoes, and send the dish to the oven for half an hour. A very superior kind of saunders is made by substituting fresh meat for roasted; but this requires to be baked an hour or something more. Sausage-meat, highly seasoned, may be served in this way, instead of beef or mutton. TO BOLL MARROW BONES. Let the large ends of the bones be sawed by the butcher, so that when they are dished they may stand upright; and if it can be done conveniently, let them be placed in the same man- ner in the vessel in which they are boiled. Put a bit of paste, made with flour and water, over the ends where the marrow is visible, and tie a cloth tightly over them; take the paste off before the bones are sent to table, and serve them, placed up- right in a napkin, with slices of dry toasted bread, apart. When not wanted for immediate use, they may be partially boiled, and set into a cool place, where they will remain good for many days. Larpe marrowbones, 2 hoars; moderate sized, 11 hour. To