MODERN COOKERY. [CHAP. VI. 150 small eggs, and mix them well; then take the forcemeat from the mortar, and set it in a very cool place until it is wanted for use. Yeal, 6 ozs.; butter, 2 ozs.; minced parsley, 1 teaspoonful; thyme, salt, and lemon-peel, each £ teaspoonful; little nut- meg, cayenne, and mace: 12 to 15 minutes. Bread-crumbs, 2 ozs.; butter, 1£ oz.; rasped bacon, 2 ozs.; yolks of eggs, 2 to 3. Obs. 1.—When this forcemeat is intended to fill boned fowls, the livers of two or three, boiled for four minutes, or stewed with the veal for the same length of time, then minced and pounded with the other ingredients, will be found a great im- provement; and, if mushrooms can be procured, two table- spoonsful of them chopped small, should be stewed and beaten with it also. A small portion of the best end of the neck will afford the quantity of lean required for this receipt, and the re- mains of it will make excellent gravy. NO. 17. FRENCH FORCEMEAT CALLED QUENELLES. This is a peculiarly light and delicate kind of forcemeat, which by good French cooks is compounded with exceeding care. It is served abroad in a variety of forms, and is made of very finely-grained white veal, or of the undressed flesh of poultry, or of rabbits, rasped quite free from sinew, then chopped %nd pounded to the finest paste, first by itself, and afterwards with an equal quantity of boiled calFs udder or of butter, and of panada, which is but another name for bread soaked in cream or gravy and then dried over the fire until it forms a sort of paste. As the three ingredients should be equal in volume, not in weight, they are each rolled into a separate ball before they are mixed, that their size may be determined by the eye. When the fat of the fillet of veal (which in England is not often divided for sale, as it is in France) is not to be procured, a rather less proportion of butter will serve in its stead. The following will be found a very good, and not a troublesome receipt for veal forcemeat of this kind. Rasp quite clear from sinew, after the fat and skin have been entirely cleared from it, four ounces of the finest veal; chop, and pound it well: if it be carefully prepared there will be nc necessity for passing it through a sieve, but this should other* wise be done. Soak in a small saucepan two ounces of the crumb of a stale loaf in a little rich but pale veal gravy, or w hite sauce; then press and drain as much as possible of the moisture from it, and stir it over a gentle fire until it is as dry