24 London: Printed by M. Mason, Ivy Lane, Paternoster Row. NEW WORKS AND NEW EDITIONS, The Thumb Bible 5 or, Verbum Sempiternum. By J. Taylor. Being an Epitome of the Old and New Testaments in English Verse. Reprinted from the Edition, of 1693, bound and clasped. In 64mo. price Eighteenpence. Townsend—The Lives of Twelve Eminent Judges of the Last and of the Pre- sent Century. By W. C. Townsend, Esq., M.A., Q.C. 2vols.8vo. price 28*. Townsend.—Modern State Tri- als, revised and illustrated with Essays and Notes. By VV.C. Townsend, Esq., M.A. Q.C. 2 vols. 8vo. price 30s. Sharon Turner’s Sacred His- tory of the World, attempted to be Philo- sophically considered, in a Series of Letters to a Son. New Edition, edited by the Author's Son, the Rev. S. Turner. 3 vols. post 8vo. price 31s. 6d. Sharon Turner’s History of En- gland during the Middle Ages: Comprising the Reigns from the Norman Couquest to the Accession of Henry Vlll. Fifth Edition, revised by the Rev. S. Turner. 4 vols. 8vo. price 50s. Sharon Turner’s History of the Anglo-Saxons, from tlje Earliest Period to the Norman Couquest. The Seventh Edi- tion, revised by the Rev. S. Turner. 3 vols. 8vo. price 36s. Dr. Turton’s Manual of the Land and Freshwater Shells of the British Is- lands. New Edition, with considerable Ad- ditions. By John Edward Gray: with Woodcuts, and 12 coloured Plates. Post 8vo. price 15*. Dr. Ure’s Dictionary of Arts, Manufactures and Mities : Containing a clear Exposition of their Principles and Practice. The Fourth Edition, much en- larged and corrected throughout; with all the Information comprised in the Supple- ment of Recent Improvements brought down to the Present Time, and incorporated in the Dictionary. Most of the Articles being entirely re-written, and many New Articles now first added. With nearly 1,600 Woodcuts. 2 vols. 8vo. price 60s. Waterton.—Essays on Natural History, chiefiy Ornithology. By C. Wa- terton. Esq. With an Autobiography of the Author and Views of Walton Hall. New and cheaper Edition. 2 vols. fcp. 8vo. 10s. Separately: Vol. 1. (First Series),os. 6<f. Vol. 11. (Second Series), 4s. 6<f. Alaric Watts’s Lyrics of the Heart, and other Poems. With 41 highly- finished Line Engravings, executed ex- pressly for the work by the most eminent Painters and Engravers. Square crown 8vo. price 31s. 6rf. boards, or 45s. bound in mo- rocco ; Proof Impressions, 63s. boards. Webster and Parkes’s Ency- clopaedia of Domestic Economy; Comprising such subjects as are most immediately connected with Housekeeping ; As, The Construction of Domestic Edifices, with the Modes of Warming, Ventilating, and Lighting them—A Description of the vari- ous Articles of F’urniture, with the Nature of their Materials—Duties of Servants, etc. New Edition; with nearly 1,000 Woodcuts, 8vo. price 50s. Willich’s Popular Tables for ascertaining the Value of Lifehold, Lease- hold, and Church Property, Renewal Fines, etc. Third Edition, with additional Tables of Natural or Hyperbolic Logarithms, Tri- gonometry, Astronomy, Geography, etc. Post 8vo. price 9s. Lady Willoughby’s Diary (1635 to 1663). Printed, ornamented, and bound in the style of the period to which The Diary refers. New Edition; in Two Parts. Square fcp. 8vo. price 8s. each, boards ; or, bound in morocco, 18s. each. Wilmot’s Abridgment of Black- stone's Commentaries on the Laws of En- gland, intended for the use of Young Per- sons, and comprised in a series of Letters from a Father'to his Daughter. A New Edition, corrected and brought down to the' Present Dav, by Sir John E. Eahdley Wilmot, Bart., Barrister-at Law, Recorder of Warwick. 12mo. piice 6s. 6<f. Youatt.—The Horse. By Wil- liam Youatt. With a Treatise of Draught. A New Edition; with numerous Wood En- gravings from Designs by William Harvey. (Messrs. Longman and Co.’s Edition should be ordered). Svo. price 10s. Youatt.—The Dog. By William Youatt- A New Edition; with numerous Engravings from Designs by William Har- vey. 8vo. 6s. Zumpt’s Larger Grammar of the Latin Language. Translated and adapted for the use of the English Students, by Dr. L. Schmitz. F.R.S.E., Rector of the High School of Edinburgh: With numerous Ad ditions and Corrections by the Author and Translator. The Third Edition, thoroughly revised; to which is added, an Index (by the Rev. J. T. White, M.A.) of all the Pas- sages of Latin Authors referrtd to and explained in the Grammar. 8vo. price 14s. March, 1854.