CIIAP. XIII.] GAME. 279 boiled by Captain Rater’s receipt (see Chapter XV.), and beat them together until they are well blended; next throw into the mortar something less (in volume) of fresh butter than there was of the pheasant-flesh, with a high seasoning of mace, nutmeg, and cayenne, and a half-teaspoonful or more of salt; ?ound the mixture afresh for ten minutes or a quarter of an our, keeping it turned from the sides of the mortar into the fiddle; then add one by one, after merely taking out the germs with the point of a fork, two whole eggs and a yolk or two without the whites, if these last will not render the mixture too moist. Mould it into the form of a roll, lay it into a stew- pan rubbed with butter, pour boiling water on it and poach it gently from ten to fifteen minutes. Lift it out with care, drain it on a sieve, and when it is quite cold cover it equally with beaten egg, and then with the finest bread-crumbs, and broil it over a clear fire, or fry it in butter of a clear golden brown. A good gravy should be made of the remains of the bird, and sent to table with it; the flavour may be heightened with ham and eschalots, as directed in Chapter III., page 83, and small mushrooms, sliced sideways, and stewed quite tender in butter may be mixed with the boudin after it is taken from the mortar; or their flavour may be given more delicately by adding to it only the butter in which they have been simmered, well pressed from them through a strainer. The mixture, which should be' set into a very cool place before it is moulded, maybe made into several small rolls, which will require four or five minutes* poaching only. The flesh of partridges will answer quite as well as that of pheasants for this dish. TO BOAST PARTRIDGES. Let the birds hang as long as they can possibly be kept with- out becoming offensive; pick them care- fully, draw, and singe them; wipe the insides thoroughly with a clean cloth ; truss them with the head turned under the wing and the legs drawn close toge- ther or crossed. Flour them when first laid to the fire, and baste them plenti- fully with butter. Serve them with bread sauce, and good brown gravy: a little of this last should be poured over them. In some counties they are dished upon fried bread- crumbs, but these are better handed round the table by them- selves. Where game is plentiful we recommend that the A Partridge Trussed for Roasting.