324 Qchap. XV. MODERN COOKERY. flour, turn the whole well, and add by slow degrees a cup of thick cream: veal gravy or good white sauce may be substituted for this, when preferred to it. TO BOIL TURNIPS. Pare entirely from them the stringy rind, and either split the turnips once or leave them whole; throw them into boiling wrater slightly salted, and keep them closely covered from smoke and dust till they are tender. When small and young they will be done in from fifteen to twenty minutes; at their full growth they will require from three quarters to a full hour, or more, of gentle boiling. After they become old and woolly they are not worth dressing in any way. When boiled in their skins and pared afterwards, they are said to be of better flavour and much less watery than when cooked in the usual way. Young turnips, 15 to 20 minutes: full grown, f to 1 hour, or more. TO MASH TURNIPS. Split them once or even twice should they be large; after they are pared, boil them very tender, and press the water t horoughly from them with a couple of trenchers, or with the jack of a large plate and one trencher. To ensure their being free from lumps, it is better to pass them through a cullender >r coarse hair-sieve, with a wooden spoon; though, when quite young, they may be worked sufficiently smooth without this. Put them into a clean saucepan, and stir them constantly for some minutes over a gentle fire, that they may be very dry; then add some salt, a bit of fresh butter, and a little cream, or in lieu of this new milk (we would also recommend a seasoning of white pepper or cayenne, when appearance and fashion are not particularly regarded), and continue to simmer and to stir them for five or six minutes longer, or until they have quite absorbed all the liquid which has been poured to them. Serve them always as hot as possible. This is an excellent receipt. Turnips, weighed after they are pared, 3 lbs.: dried 5 to 8 minutes. Salt, 1 teaspoonful; butter, 1 oz. to 1 £ oz.; cream or milk, nearly i pint: 5 or 6 minutes. TURNIPS IN WHITE SAUCE. (ENTREMETS.) When no scoop for the purpose is at hand, cut some small finely-grained turnips into quarters, and pare them into balls, or into the shape of plums or pears of equal size; arrange them evenly in a broad stewpan or saucepan, and cover them nearly