VEGETABLES. CHAP. XV.] 327 and a little salt; next, stir in by degrees some good cream, and when this is quite absorbed, and the carrots again appear dry, dish and serve them quickly with small sippets, a la Reine (see page 5), placed round them. Carrots, 3 lbs., boiled quite tender: stirred over a gentle fire 5 to 10 minutes. Butter, 2 ozs.; salt, £ teaspoonful; pounded sugar, 1 dessertspoonful; cream, \ pint, stewed gently together until quite dry. Obs.—For excellent mashed carrots omit the sugar, add a good seasoning of salt and white pepper, and half a pint of rich brown gravy; or for a plain dinner rather less than this of milk. CARROTS AU BEURRE, OR BUTTERED CARROTS. Either boil sufficient carrots for a dish quite tender, and then cut them into slices a quarter-inch thick, or first slice, and then boil them: the latter method is the most expeditious, but tlie» other best preserves the flavour of the vegetable. Drain them well, and while this is being done just dissolve from two to four ounces of butter in a saucepan, and strew in some minced parsley, some salt, and white pepper or cayenne; then add the carrots, and toss them very gently until they are equally covered with the sauce, which should not be allowed to boil: the parsley may be omitted at pleasure. Cold carrots may be rewarmed in this way. TO BOIL PARSNEPS. These are dressed in precisely the same manner as carrots, but require much less boiling. According to their quality and the time of year, they will take from twenty minutes to nearly an hour. Every speck or blemish should be cut from them after they are scraped, and the water in which they are boiled should be well skimmed. They are a favourite accompaniment to salt-fish and boiled pork, and may be served either mashed or plain. 20 to 55 minutes. PRIED PARSNEPS. Boil them until they are about half done, lift them out, and let them cool; slice them rather thickly, sprinkle them with fine salt and white pepper, and fry them a pale brown in good butter. Serve them with roast meat, or dish them under it. JERUSALEM ARTICHOKES. Wash the artichokes, pare them quickly, and throw them as