VEGETABLES. 313 CHAP. XV.] sauce them with very fine oil, well mixed with Chili vinegar, or with equal parts of Chili and of common vinegar. Cucumbers, 2 or 3 ; salt, 1 to 2 saltspoonsful; little cayenne; oil, 6 to 8 tablespoonsful; Chili vinegar, or equal parts of this and common vinegar, 2 to 4 tablespoonsful. Obs.—When the flavour of eschalots is much liked, a tea- spoonful or more of the vinegar in which they have been steeped or pickled may be added to this dish. STEWED CUCUMBERS. (English mode.) Pare, and split into quarters, four or five full-grown but still young cucumbers; take out the seeds and cut each part in two; sprinkle them with white pepper or cayenne, flour and fry them lightly in a little butter, lift them from the pan, drain them on a sieve, then lay them into as much good brown gravy as will nearly cover them, and stew them gently from twenty-five to thirty minutes, or until they are quite tender. Should the gravy require to be thickened or flavoured, dish the cucumbers and keep them hot while a little flour and butter, or any other of the usual ingredients, is stirred into it. Some persons like a small portion of lemon-juice, or of Chili vinegar added to the sauce; cucumber vinegar might be substituted for these with very good effect, as the vegetable loses much of its fine and peculiar flavour when cooked. 25 to 30 minutes. Obs.—The cucumbers may be left in entire lengths, thrown into well-salted boiling water, and simmered for ten minutes, then thoroughly drained upon the back of a sieve, and after- wards stewed very quickly till tender in some highly-flavoured brown gravy, or in the Spanish sauce of page 88. CUCUMBERS A LA POULETTE. The cucumbers for this dish may be pared and sliced very thin; or quartered, freed from the seeds, and cut into half-inch lengths; in eithei case they should be steeped in a little vinegar and sprinkled with salt for half an hour before they are dressed. Drain, and then press them dry in a soft cloth; flour them well, put a slice of butter into a stewpan or saucepan bright in the inside, and when it begins to boil throw in the cucumbers, and shake them over a gentle fire for ten minutes, but be careful to prevent their taking the slightest colour; pour to them gradually as much strong, but very pale, veal stock or gravy as will nearly cover them; when it boils skim off the fat