Eciiap. XXVI. MODERN COOKERY. 552 with sugar in lumps; then pour in as much boiling water as it will contain, and when the sugar is dissolved, turn the contents of both glasses into a hot jug; add a tablespoonful of fine cur- rant (or of guava) jelly, should it be at hand, stir the whole well, keep it very hot, and add to it as much spirit as will make it pleasant, but in the proportion of two glasses of brandy to one of rum. MINT JULEP. (An American receipt.) M Strip the tender leaves of mint into a tumbler, and add to them as much wine, brandy, or any other spirit, as you wish to take. Put some pounded ice into a second tumbler; pour this on the mint and brandy, and continue to pour the mixture from one tumbler to the other until the whole is sifficiently impregnated with the flavour of the mint, which is extacted by the particles of the ice coming into brisk contact whei changed from one vessel to the other. Now place the glass it a larger one, containing pounded ice; on taking it out of wjicli it will be covered with frost-work.” / DELICIOUS MILK LEMONADE. Dissolve six ounces of loaf sugar in a pint of boding water, and mix with them a quarter-pint of lemon-juice, aid the same quantity of Sherry; then add three quarters of a tint of cold milk, stir the whole well together, and pass it throjgh a jelly- bag till clear. EXCELLENT PORTABLE LEMONADE. Rasp, with a quarter-pound of sugar, the rind f a very fine juicy lemon, reduce it to powder, and pour on itthe strained juice of the fruit. Press the mixture into a jf, and when wanted for use dissolve a tablespoonful of it in a lass of water. It will keep a considerable time. If too sweet fc the taste of the drinker, a very small portion of citric acid lay be added when it is taken. EXCELLENT BARLEV WATER. (Poor Xur?/s receipt,) Wipe very clean, by rolling it in a soft cloth, to tablespoons- ful of pearl-barley; put it into a quart jug, witlft lump or two of sugar, a grain or two of salt, and a strip of jbmon-peel, cut thin; fill up the jug with boiling water and k^p the mixture —r"