497 CHAP. XXI.J PRESERVES. weigh, and wash the crabs; then, to each pound and a half, add a pint of water, and boil them gently until they are broken, but do not allow them to fall to a pulp. Pour the whole into a jelly-hag, and when the juice is quite transparent, weigh it, put it into a clean preserving-pan, boil it quickly for ten minutes, take it from the fire, and stir in it, until dissolved, ten ounces of fine sugar, roughly powdered, to each pound of the juice; boil the jelly from twelve to fifteen minutes, skim it very clean, and pour it into the mould. Should the quantity be large, a few’ additional minutes boiling must be given to the juice before the sugar is added. To each 1£ lb. of crabs; water, 1 pint: 12 to 18 minutes. Juice to be fast boiled, 10 minutes; sugar, to each pound, 10 ozs.: 12 to 15 minutes. TO PRESERVE BARBERRIES IN BUNCHES. Take the finest barberries, without stones, that can be pro- cured, tie them together in bunches of four or five sprigs, and for each half pound of the fruit (which is extremely light), boil one pound of very good sugar in a pint of water for twenty minutes, and clear it well from scum; throw in the fruit, let it heat gently, and then boil from five to seven minutes, when it will be perfectly transparent. So long as any snapping noise is heard, the fruit is not all done; it should be pressed equally down into the syrup until the whole of the berries have burst; it should then be turned into jars, which must be covered with I skin, or with two or three folds of thick paper, as soon as the preserve is perfectly cold. The barberries thus prepared make a beautiful garnish for sweet dishes, or for custard- puddings. Barberries, tied in bunches, 1£ lb.; sugar, 3 lbs.; water, pint: 20 minutes. Barberries boiled in syrup: 5 to 7 minutes. BARBERRY JELLY. To each pound of barberries, stripped from the stalks, put a pint and a half of cold water, and boil them for fifteen minutes; bruise them with the back of a wooden spoon, pour them into a hair-sieve or muslin strainer, and pass the juice afterwards through a jelly-bag. When it appears perfectly clear, weigh, and then boil it fast for ten minutes; take it from the fire, and stir into it as many pounds of sugar in fine powder as there were pounds of juice; when this is dissolved boil the jelly again K K