xlii CARVING.' forcibly the appearance of the living animal to which it has be- longed not to be very uninviting. Even when the half of one only is sent to table, something of the same aspect remains, and as it is in every way improved, and rendered most easy to carve when boned * and rolled, we would recommend its being so pre- pared whenever it can be done without difficulty. Our engrav- ing does not give a very flattering representation of it in that form, but [having been dressed with the skin on, it was not quite so easily brought into handsome shape as if it had been freed from it; yet we would nevertheless advise its being generally retained. When the head is served without being boned, it is carved across the cheek, in the line from a to b; the throat sweetbread, which is regarded as a delicacy, lies in the direction indicated by the letters c d. The flesh of the eye is another favourite morsel, which must be detached from the head by passing the point of the carving knife deeply round the eye-hole* in the circle marked e e. No. 14. A HAM. Strict economists sometimes commence the carving of a ham at the knuckle, and so gradually reach the choicer portion of it; but this method is not at all to be recommended. It should be cut at once through the thick part of the flesh, quite down to the bone, in the line a b, and sliced very thin and evenly, with- out separating the fat from the lean. Of the manner in which the ham No. 14 is decorated, we can only inform the reader here, that a portion of the rind is left on at the knuckle in a semi-circle, and then trimmed into scollops or points at plea- sure ; and that the ornamental part of the top is formed from the fat, which is pared away from the thick end and the edges* • This will be more easily accomplished by an inexperienced cook after the head has been boiled for half an hour and then allowed to cool; but it should not be left till cold before it is altogether prepared for dressing. After the bones are re- moved, it should be laid on a clean cloth, and the inside sprinkled over or rubbed with a little salt, mace, and cayenne, well mixed together; the tongue may be laid npon, and rolled up in it. It must be secured, first with a skewer, and then bound tightly round with tape. It should be boiled or stewed extremely tender; and is excellent when just covered with good stock, and simmered for a couple of hours, or when strong broth is substituted for this, and the bones are added to it. The head may be glazed, and served with rich brown gravy, or with the ordinary sauces if prepared; and it may be eaten cold, with Oxford brawn sauce, which is ^ compounded of brown sugar, vinegar, mustard, and salt, mixed to the taste, with the addition of oil when it is liked.