MODERN COOKERY. 174 [CHAP. VIII. broiled, though used in many kitchens and generally pronounced exceedingly convenient, where they have been tried, do not appear to us so well adapted for dressing steaks as those of less modern fashion, which are placed over, instead of before the fire. BEEF STEAKS A LA FRAN9AISE. The inside of the sirloin freed from skin, and cut evenly into round quarter-inch slices, should properly be used for these; but when it cannot be obtained, part of the rump must be substituted for it. Season the steaks with fine salt and pepper, brush them with a little clarified butter, andbroil them over a clear, brisk fire. Mix a teaspoonful of parsley, minced extremely fine, with a large slice of fresh butter, a little cayenne, and a small quan- tity of salt. When the steaks are done, put the mixture into the dish intended for them, and lay them upon it; garnish them plentifully with fried potatoes. It is an improvement to squeeze the juice of half a lemon on the butter, before the meat is heaped over it. The potatoes should be sliced rather thin, coloured of a fine brown, and placed evenly round the meat. BEEF STEAKS A LA FRAN9AISE (ENTREE.) (.Another Receipt.') Cut the beef into small thin steaks as above, season them with fine salt and pepper, dredge them lightly with flour, and fry them in butter over a brisk fire; arrange them in a chain round a very hot dish, and pour into the centre the olive sauce of page 124. STEWED BEEF STEAK (ENTREE). This may be cut from one to two inches thick, and the time of stewing it must be proportioned to its size. Dissolve a slice of butter in a large saucepan or stewpan, and brown the steak on both sides, moving it often that it may not burn ; then shake in a little flour, and when it is coloured pour in by degrees rather more than sufficient broth or water to cover the meat. When it boils, season it with salt, take off the scum, slice in one onion, a carrot or two, and half a turnip; add a small bunch of sweet herbs, and stew the steak very softly from two hours and a half to three hours. A quarter of an hour before it is served, stir well into the gravy three teaspoonsful of rice flour smoothly mixed with a little cayenne, half a wineglassful of mushroom catsup, and a slight seasoning of spice. A teaspoonfol of currie powder, in addition, will improve both the flavour and the ap-