CHAP, vm.] BEEP. 183 vinegar and water, then pressed well from them, and mixed with some rich melted butter, is a good sauce for it. Beef, 20 lbs.; coarse sugar, \ lb.; saltpetre, 1 oz.: 2 days. Salt, | lb.: 21 days. Boil 5 hours, or more. Obs.—Beef cured by this receipt, if properly boiled, is tender, of good colour and flavour, and not over salt. The rump, edge- bone, and brisket may be salted, or pickled in the same way as the round. HAMBURGH PICKLE FOR BEEF, HAMS, AND TONGUE. Boil together, for twenty minutes, two gallons of water, three pounds of bay salt, two pounds of coarse sugar, two ounces of saltpetre, and two of black pepper, bruised, and tied in a fold of muslin; clear off the scum thoroughly, as it rises, pour the pickle into a deep earthen-pan, and when it is quite cold lay in the meat, of which every part must be perfectly covered with it. A moderate-sized round of beef will be ready for table in a fort- night; it should be turned occasionally in the brine. Five pounds of common salt may be substituted for the quantity of bay salt given above; but the meat will not be so finely flavoured. Water, 2 gallons; bay-salt, 3 lbs.; saltpetre, 2 ozs.; black pepper, 2 ozs.; sugar, 2 lbs.: 20 minutes. ANOTHER PICKLE FOR TONGUES, BEEF, AND HAMS. To three gallons of spring water add six pounds of common salt, two pounds of bay-salt, two pounds of common loaf sugar, and two ounces of saltpetre. Boil these over a gentle fire, and be careful to take off all the scum as it rises: when quite cold it will be fit for use. Rub the meat to be cured, with fine salt, and let it drain for a day or two, in order to free it from the blood; then immerse it in the brine, taking care that every part of it shall be covered. Young pork should not remain more than from three to five days in the pickle; but hams for drying may be left in it for a fortnight at least: tongues will be ready in rather less time. Beef may remain from one week to two, according to its size, and the degree of saltness desired for it. A little experience will soon teach the exact time required for the different kinds of meat. When the pickle has been in use for about three months, boil it up again gently, and take the scum carefully off. Add to it three pounds of common salt, four ounces of sugar, and one of saltpetre: it will remain good for a year or more.