MODERN COOKERY. 172 [[chap. vin. require long roasting at a strong, steady fire, and should be kept constantly basted. Beef, 14 lbs.: to 5 hours. Obs.—We think that larding the beef quite through with large lardoons of firm fat, of udder, or of bacon, would be an improvement; and we ought also to observe, that unless it be young and of fine quality, it will not answer well for roasting. TO ROAST A FILLET OF BEEF. Raise the fillet from the inside of the sirloin, or from part of it, with a sharp knife ; leave the fat on, trim off the skin, lard it through, or all over, or .roast it, quite plain; baste it with butter, and send it very hot to table, with tomata sauce, or sauce piquante, or eschalot sauce, in a tureen. It is sometimes served with brown gravy and currant jelly; it should then be garnished with forcemeat-balls, made as for hare. If not very large, an hour and a quarter will roast it well with a brisk fire. Obs.—The remainder of the joint may be boned, rolled, and roasted, or braised; or made into meat cakes; or served as a miniature round of beef. 1 hour, 15 minutes. ROAST BEEF STEAK. If extremely tender, a large slice from the middle of the rump will make an excellent small dish of roast meat, when a joint is not easily to be procured. Let it be smoothly cut, from an inch to an inch and a half thick, flattened on a table, and the inside sprinkled with a little fine salt and cayenne, or coni- n'mn pepper. Make a roll of forcemeat, as No. 1 (page 143), ad ding, at pleasure, a flavouring of minced onion or eschalot, and increasing the quantity of spices; place this on one end of th steak, and roll it up tightly in it; skewer and bind the meat bo that the forcemeat cannot, escape, fasten a buttered paper over it, and roast it an hour and a half, or more, according to its size. Twenty minutes before it is served, take off the paper, aiid flour the meat, which should be kept well basted with but- ter all the time it is roasting. Send brown gravy to table with it, and pour a little over the beefi 1$ hour, or more. TO BROIL BEEF STEAKS. The steaks should be from half to three quarters of an inch thick, equally sliced, and freshly cut from the middle of a well kept, finely grained, and tender rump of beef, They should be