421 CHAP. XIX.J SOUFFLES, OMLETS, &C. gether, roll out some good puff-paste extremely thin, and with a small round tin shape, cut out the number of rissoles required; put some of the fish into each of these, moisten the edges with white of egg, fold and press them securely together, and when all are ready, slip them gently into a pan of boiling lard or but- ter ; fry them a pale brown, drain them well, and dry them on white blotting-paper, laid upon a sieve, reversed; but do not place them sufficiently near to scorch or to colour them. TO BOIL PIPE MACCARONI. We have found always the continental mode of dressing xnaccaroni the best. English cooks sometimes soak it in milk and water for an hour or more, before it is boiled, that the pipes may be swollen to the utmost, but this is apt to render it pulpy, though its appearance may be improveS'by it. Drop it lightly, and by degrees, into a large pan of fast-boiling water, into which a little salt, and a bit of butter the size of a walnut, have pre- viously been thrown, and of which the boiling should not be stopped by the addition of the maccaroni. In from three quar- ters of an hour to an hour this will be sufficiently tender; it should always be perfectly so, as it is otherwise indigestible, though the pipes should remain entire. Pour it into a large cullender, and drain the water well from it. It should be very softly boiled after the first minute or two. f to 1 hour. RIBBAND MACCARONI. This is dressed in precisely the same manner as the pipe maccaroni, but requires only from fourteen to sixteen minutes’ boiling in water, and twenty or more in broth or stock. DRESSED MACCARONI. Four ounces of pipe maccaroni is sufficient for a small dish, but from six to eight should be prepared for a family party where it is liked. The common English mode of dressing it is with grated cheese, butter, and cream, or milk. French cooks substitute generally a spoonful or two of very strong rich jellied gravy for the cream; and the Italians, amongst their many other modes of serving it, toss it in rich brown gravy, with sufficient grated cheese to flavour the whole strongly; they send it to table also simply laid into a good Espagnole or brown gravy (that drawn from the stufato, for example), accompanied by a plate of grated cheese. Another, and an easy mode of dressing it is to boil and drain it well, and to put it into a deep