CHAP. V.] 137 STORE SAUCES, melted butter, and to serve with fish, or to add to different kinds of gravy; hut they can be varied, or added to, at pleasure. Indian soy, j. pint; Chili vinegar, £ pint; walnut catsup, £ pint; mushroom catsup, 1 \ pint. Obs.—A pint of port wine, a few eschalots, and some thin strips of lemon-rind will convert this into an admirable store- sauce. Less soy would adapt it better to many tastes. TARRAGON VINEGAR. Gather the tarragon just before it blossoms, which will be late in July, or early in August; strip it from the larger stalks, and put it into small stone jars or wide-necked bottles, and in doing this twist some of the branches so as to bruise the leaves and wring them asunder; then pour in sufficient distilled or very pale vinegar to cover the tarragon; let it infuse for two months, or more: it will take no harm even by standing all the winter. When it is poured off strain it very clear, put it into small dry bottles, and cork them well. Sweet basil vinegar is made in exactly the same way, but it should not be left on the leaves more than three weeks. The jars or bottles should be filled to the neck with the tarragon before the vinegar is added : its flavour is strong and peculiar, but to many tastes very agreeable. It imparts quite a foreign character to the dishes for which it is used. GREEN MINT VINEGAR. Pick and slightly chop, or bruise, freshly-gathered mint, and put it into bottles; fill them nearly to the necks, and add vinegar as for tarragon: in forty days, strain it off, and bottle it for use. The mint itself, ready minced for sauce, will keep well in vinegar, though the colour will not be very good. CUCUMBER VINEGAR. First wipe, and then, without paring, slice into a jar some voung and quickly-grown cucumbers; pour on them as much boiling vinegar as will cover them well, with a teaspoonful of salt, and two thirds as much of peppercorns to the pint and a half of vinegar : it may remain on them for a month, or even for two, if well defended from the air. A mild onion can be intermixed with the cucumbers, when its flavour is considered an improvement. CELERY VINEGAR. Put into a wide-necked bottle or pickle-jar eight ounces of