VEAL. CHAP. IX.] 207 blade-bone of a roast shoulder, which is so much esteemed by many people. 8TEWED SHOULDER OF VEAL. (English Receipt.) Bone a shoulder of veal, and strew the inside thickly with savoury herbs, minced small; season it well with salt, cayenne, and pounded mace; and place on these a layer of ham cut in thin slices, and freed from rind and rust. Roll the veal, and bind it tightly with a fillet; roast it for an hour and a half, then simmer it gently in good brown gravy for five hours; add forcemeat balls before it is dished; skim the fat from the gravy, and serve it with the meat. This receipt, for which we are indebted to a correspondent on whom we can depend, and which we have not, therefore, proved ourselves, is for a joint which weighs ten pounds before it is boned. ROAST NECK OF VEAL. The best end of the neck will make an excellent roast. A forcemeat may be inserted between the skin and the flesh, by first separating them with a sharp knife; or the dish may be garnished with the forcemeat in balls. From an hour and three quarters to a couple of hours will roast it. Pour melted butter over it when it is dished, and serve it like other joints. Let it be floured when first laid to the fire, kept constantly basted, and always at a sufficient distance to prevent its being scorched. 1 £ to 2 hours. For the forcemeat, see No. 1, Chapter VI. From 8 to 10 minutes will fry the balls. NECK OF VEAL A LA CREME. (Or au Bechamel0 Take the best end of a neck of white and well-fed veal, detach the flesh from the ends of the bones, cut them sufficiently short to give the joint a good square form, roll and skewer the skin over them, wrap a buttered paper round the meat, lay it at a moderate distance from a clear fire, and keep it well basted with butter for an hour and a quarter; then remove the paper and continue the basting with a pint, or more, of bechamel, or of rich white sauce, until the veal is sufficiently roasted, and well encrusted with it. Serve some bechamel under it in the dish, and send it very hot to table. For variety, give the bechamel, in making it, a high flavour of mushrooms, and add