CHAP. XII.^ poultry 269 heads and necks, but leave the feet on, and hold them for a few minutes in boiling water to loosen the skin, which must be peeled off.. Wash the in- sides of the birds by pouring water through them, but mere- ly wipe the outsides with a dry cloth. Put into the bodies a seasoning of parboiled onions mixed with minced sage, salt, pepper, and a slice of butter, when this mode of dressing them is liked; but as the taste of a whole party is seldom in its favour, one, when a couple are roasted, is often served without the stuffing. Cut off the pinions at the first joint from the bodies, truss the feet behind the backs, spit the birds firmly, and roast them at a brisk fire, but do not place them sufficiently near to be scorched; baste them constantly, and when the breasts are well plumped, and the steam from them draws towards the fire, dish, and serve them quickly with a little good brown gravy poured round them, and some also in a tureen; or instead of this, with some which has been made with the necks, gizzards, and livers well stewed down, with a slight seasoning of browned onion, some herbs, and spice. Young ducks, £ hour: full sized, from f to 1 hour. 06s.—Olive-sauce may be served with roast as well as with 6tewed ducks. STEWED DUCK. (ENTREE.) A couple of quite young ducks, or a fine, full-grown, but still tender one, will be required for this dish. Cut either down neatly into joints, and arrange them, in a single layer if possible, in a wide stewpan; pour in about three quarters of a pint of strong, cold beef stock or gravy; let it be well cleared from scum when it begins to boil, then throw in a little salt, a rather full seasoning of cayenne, and a fey' thin strips of lemon- rind. Simmer the ducks very softly for three quarters of an hour, or somewhat longer, should the joints be large; then stir into the gravy a tablespoonful of the finest rice-flour, mixed with a wineglassful or rather more of port wine, and a dessert' spoonful of lemon-juice: in ten minutes after, dish the stew and send it to table instantly. The ducks may be served with a small portion only of their sauce, laid in a circle, with green peas a la Francaise, heaped high in the centre; the lemon-rind and port wine should then