.APPENDIX. 5840 ‘Maize-meal, half-pint; miik or water, full quart; salt, one saltspoonful: ten to fifteen minutes. Obs. This porridge may be made in the Scottish fashion, by dropping the meal lightly through the fingers into the boiling liquid, and beating it smooth with a sort of stick kept for the purpose; but the method we have given will better prevent its lumping. Polenta, used in the same proportion as the American meai in this receipt, with milk, and the addition of a little sugar and nutmeg, makes agreeable fojd for the nursery and for invalids. SHRIMPS, POTTED, WHOLE.* (AN ADMIRABLE RECEIPT.) Let the fish for this receipt be very fresh ; shell them quickly, touching them as lightly as possibie ; melt down, with a gentle degree of heat, some new butter; skim and pour it, clear of sediment, into a clean enamelled saucepan ; add a little salt, mace, and cayenne; and when these have ju?t simmered for three or four minutes, throw in the fish, toss them in the butter, that all may be covered with it, and let them heat through by the side of the stove, but on no account be allowed to boil; turn them into shallow pans, and press them down into the butter. Should it not cover them entirely, pour a little more over them when they are nearly cold. Shelled shrimps, 1 pint; butter, 4 to 5 oz.; small quantity each of salt, mace, nutmeg, and cayenne. TO RENDER CHICKENS WHITE, FOR BOILING. Lay them, after they are trussed, into a pan of spring water for ten or fifteen minntes. This may weaken their flavour slightly, but it will improve their appearance. Cover them well with more cold water; heat them slowly; watch and clear off all the scum as it appears, and boil them gently until they are ready to serve. (See p. 263.) Truss them without the livers or gizzards. For a more expensive and refined mode of dressing them, see Poelie, p. 154, • We have, in part, derived this receipt, of which we have permission to make ttse, from a small treatise on pickling and curing meat and fish, by Mr. Robin- son. (Longman and Co.) But we have adapted it to our own taste by some variations which render it, we think, more delicate. We would here observe, that all shell fish, after having been sufficiently boiled for eating, is, like meat, injured if more than just heated through a second time. Tins applies particularly to lobsters.