MODERN COOKERY. 466 [[chap. XXI. being of convenient shape; for the handles quickly become heated, and the pan, in conse- quence, cannot always be instan- taneously raised from the fire when the contents threaten to over-boil or to burn. It is desirable to have three or four wooden spoons or spa- tulas, one fine hair-sieve, at the least, one or two large squares of common muslin, and a strainer, or more of closer texture, kept exclusively for preparations of fruit, for if used for other purposes, there is the hazard, without great care, of their retaining some strong or coarse flavour, which they would impart to the preserves. A sieve, for example, through which any preparation of onions has been poured, should never, on any account, be brought into use for any kind of confectionery, nor in making sweet dishes, nor for straining eggs or milk for puddings, cakes, or bread. Damp is the great enemy, not only of preserves and pickles, but of number- less other household stores; yet, in many situations, it is extremely difficult to exclude it. To keep them in a “ dry cool place” (words which occur so frequently both in this book, and in most others on the same subject), is more easily directed than done. They remain, we find, more entirely free from any danger of moulding, when covered with a brandied paper only, and placed on the shelves of a tolerably dry store-room ; but they are rather liable to candy when thus kept, and we fancy that the flavour of the fruit is somewhat less perfectly preserved than when they are quite secured from the air by skins stretched over the jars. If left uncovered, the inroads of mice upon them must be guarded against, as they will commit great havoc in a single night on these sweet fctores. When the slightest fermentation is perceptible in syrup, it should immediately be boiled for some minutes, and well skimmed; the fruit taken from it should then be thrown in, and well scalded also, and the whole, when done, should be turned into a very clean dry jar: this kind of preserve should always be covered with one or two skins, or with parchment and thick paper. A FEW GENERAL RULES AND DIRECTIONS FOR PRESERVING. 1. Let everything used for the purpose be delicately clesn and dry ; bottles especially so.