London: LONGMAN, BROWN, GREEN, and LONGMANS. THE TRAVELLER’S LIBEAEY, IN COUESE OF PUBLICATION In Parts at One Shilling and In Volumes price Half-a-Crown each. Comprising books of valuable information and acknowledged merit, in a form adapted for reading while travelling, and also of a cha- racter that will render them worthy of preservation ; but the price of which has hitherto confined them within a comparatively narrow circle of readers. “ Railway literature—or, more generally and correctly speaking, travelling litera- ture ; for the wider term takes in steamers, coaches, and all other modes of locomo- tion—has hitherto been for the most part confined to the two classes of periodicals and cheap editions of nov els. But there is no good reason why the traveller, com- fortably seated in railway carriage or in steam-boat, saloon or deck, should limit himself exclusively to reading of a passing or ephemeral character. This seems to have been the idea which originated the Traveller's Library. The publishers offer the travelling reader something of a higher quality than the light literature which others have hitherto supposed best suited for him; and, by combining cheapness and handiness of form with superiority of matter, they seem likely to succeed in adding a valuable and popular department to the library for road, rail, river, and sea. Not but that people staying at home may also be glad to avail themselves, for reading at fireside or window-corner, of the elegant and excellent series of essays, &c., which we are promised, and here have earnest of, in the Traveller's Library.” Scotsman. A LIST of the THIRTY-EIGHT WORKS already published in The TRAVELLER’S LIBRARY. i. WARREN HASTINGS. By Thomas Babington Macaulay. Re- printed from Mr. Macaulay’s Critical and Historical Essays. Price One Shilling. n. LORD CLIVE. By Thomas Babington Macaulay. Reprinted from Mr. Macaulay’s Critical and Historical Essays. Price One Shilling. «** Mr. Macaulay’s Two Essays on Warren Hastings and Lord Clive may be had in One Volume, price Half-a-Crown. m. WILLIAM PITT, EARL of CHATHAM. By Thomas Babington Macaulay. Reprinted from Mr. Macaulay’s Critical and Historical Essays. Price One Shilling. IV. THE LIFE and WRITINGS of ADDISON. And, HORACE WAL- POLE. By Thomas Babington Macaulay. Reprinted from Mr. Macaulay’s Critical and Historical Essays. Price One Shilling.